-- Turkey’s Gul Says Syria Strike Must Be ‘Last Resort’ After Talks
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-09-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/turkey-s-gul-says-syria-strike-must-be-last-resort-after-talks.html
Turkish President  Abdullah Gul  said
military action against neighboring  Syria  should be an option
only if diplomatic efforts fail to spur President Bashar al-Assad to surrender chemical weapons he used on civilians.  “Military action is the last resort,” Gul said on  CNN ’s
“Fareed Zakaria GPS” show. “But what we insisted, there
should be a comprehensive political strategy first. I think this
is missing from the very beginning.”  The administration of Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  has backed the Syrian rebels in their efforts to topple
Assad, whose forces conducted an Aug. 21 sarin nerve gas attack
near Damascus that the U.S. says killed more than 1,400 people.
President  Barack Obama  said last week in a speech to the  United
Nations General Assembly  in New York that there “must be a
strong Security Council resolution to verify that the Assad
regime” is keeping its commitments to give up chemical weapons.  Gul said “we should not fool ourselves” that efforts to
get Assad to abandon chemical weapons will work without the
threat of military force to implement his agreements.  “If it’s going to be real cleaning, that will be
wonderful,” Gul said, according to a transcript provided by
CNN. “That will be good for everyone. But if it’s going to be
given some time, that at the end, still there will be some
chemical weapons there, so that it would be a loss of time.”  Syrian Refugees  The two-year civil war between forces loyal to Assad and
Syrian rebels has taken at least 100,000 lives and created more
than 1.5 million refugees, according to UN estimates. Many of
those fled across the 900-kilometer (560-mile) Turkish border
and have been sheltered by the Turks.  The Syrian conflict “is not the problem of  Turkey , first
of all, but we are the neighbor,” Gul said. “What’s happening
in Syria is having immediate consequences on Turkey.”  The UN Security Council unanimously approved on Sept. 27 a
resolution agreeing to eliminate all of Syria’s toxic arsenal.
The resolution lacks immediate consequences if the Assad regime
fails to comply.  The resolution also doesn’t assign blame for the attack,
which U.S., U.K. and French officials attribute to Assad.
Syria’s ally  Russia , which has used its Security Council veto
power to protect Assad, has said rebels were responsible for the
attack and blocked tougher wording in the resolution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  