-- Vietnam Premier Opens Door to Foreign Investors
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-30T03:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/vietnam-premier-opens-door-to-foreign-investors.html
Vietnam ’s premier pledged to
subject state-owned companies to competition and allow greater
foreign ownership of banks as the government seeks to revive
growth and join a key trade agreement.  Over the next five years, Vietnam’s state companies will
focus on areas such as infrastructure that “the private sector
cannot or does not want to invest in,” Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung said in an interview in  New York  on Sept. 27. The
government plans to devalue the dong as much as 2 percent by the
end of the year and let foreign companies own up to 49 percent
of local banks in the “near future,” Dung said.  Vietnam’s economy faces its most severe  slump  in at least a
decade, hurt by slower lending as banks strain under the weight
of bad debt incurred largely by the state sector. Removing
protections for state companies would help Vietnam in seeking
greater access to the U.S. market to strengthen its economy, and
underpin efforts to boost political ties.  State enterprises will need “to operate in the market
economy,” Dung said in the almost hour-long interview. “We
will treat them as equal to other enterprises.”  There are plans to sell shares in companies such as Vietnam
Airlines Corp., Vietnam Posts & Telecommunications Group, and
Vietnam Oil & Gas Group, he said, without giving a specific time
frame for divestment.  Dong Devaluation  Dung said he is considering increasing the foreign
ownership limit in banks and telecommunication companies. Total
foreign ownership in any lender is currently limited to 30
percent and the holding of any single foreign investor at 20
percent. Those limits curb offshore interest in Vietnamese
banks,  Standard & Poor’s  said last month in a research note.  The government plans to devalue the dong because it
considers it overvalued against the dollar, Dung said. The
timing of a devaluation is “dependent on the market,” he
added.  Vietnam devalued its currency by 1 percent in June, the
first move since 2011, and the central bank has said any
adjustments to the dong’s value this year would be within a 3
percent range. It has weakened 1.3 percent against the dollar
this year, while currencies elsewhere in  Asia  such as the
 Philippines  and  Malaysia  have dropped at least 5 percent.  Economic Vulnerability  Vietnam has reduced the number of companies that are
wholly-owned by the government to 1,300 from 12,000, Dung said.
“We will narrow down the areas of operations for these SOEs,”
he said. “That focus is mainly into infrastructure.”  State-owned companies in Vietnam are a key source of
economic vulnerability, the  International Monetary Fund   said  in
August. Government policies dictate that the state sector play
the leading role in the economy, with preferential access to
land and capital, while non-state businesses face restrictions
on  market access , Jonathan Pincus wrote in a paper last year
while a Ho Chi Minh City-based economist with the Vietnam
Program at the Harvard Kennedy School.  Vietnam is considering measures such as tax breaks to help
foreign companies, said Vice Minister of Planning and Investment
Dao Quang Thu. Vietnam’s macro economic situation is improving
even as the risk remains of higher inflation, he said today at a
conference in Hanoi.  Playing Field  “We have been raising this question of level playing field
every six months at the highest level of the government,” said
Alain Cany, co-chairman of the Vietnam Business  Forum 
Consortium.  “If the prime minister is declaring this in the U.S. in
public, it’s probably the most encouraging statement I’ve heard
for the last few years,” Cany said. “The country needs this
kind of action to be able to go back to the 7 percent growth
rates of the past.”  Vietnam’s Ministry of Planning and Investment forecasts the
 economy  to grow 5.4 percent this year and 5.8 percent next year,
which would mark three consecutive years of growth that’s slower
than 6 percent. Its banks have the highest level of  bad debt 
among the six Southeast Asian countries covered by  Fitch
Ratings .  Trade Pact  The nation’s economy and  exports  may be boosted if it signs
the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a  proposed  trade agreement with
12 nations. The U.S. will give Vietnam “differential”
treatment in negotiating the accord, Dung said.  “We have urged all the members of the TPP to be flexible,
taking into account the low level of development of Vietnam,”
said Dung. “The  United States  is willing to be flexible with
Vietnam.”  The nation stands to be the biggest beneficiary if it signs
the trade agreement, according to an October 2011  study  by the
Honolulu-based think tank the East-West Center.  The government is under pressure to accelerate reform of
its state sector, with a major American stipulation in talks on
the pact that private and state-owned companies compete equally.  “It would be very smart for the government of Vietnam to
take what it plans to do anyway, i.e., reforming its SOEs, and
build that into its TPP obligations,” said Susan Schwab, a
former U.S. trade representative from 2006 to 2009.  “You are self-imposing reforms you want to do anyway, and
the sweetener you are getting with that medicine is market
access and all the benefits you get from a trade agreement,”
she said.  General Electric Co. (GE)  won a $1 billion order to supply
engines for Vietnam Airlines Corp.’s fleet of 787 Dreamliners,
Dung also said.  Military Relations  Closer business ties with the U.S. may come as military
relations strengthen among the former wartime adversaries, with
then-U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  the highest-ranking
American official to visit Cam Ranh Bay since the  Vietnam War ,
making the trip in June 2012.  “The United States is a global power and also an Asia-Pacific power,” said Dung. “An appropriate presence by the
United States in Asia Pacific will contribute to peace,
stability, maritime safety and security.”  At the same time, the U.S. should lift an “unreasonable”
and “discriminatory” ban on the sale of lethal weapons to
Vietnam, said Dung.  “That shows a lack of trust,” he said. “To be honest
with you, even if the U.S. lifts this embargo it is not certain
that we will buy the weapons from the U.S., but it is about
trust.”  Hagel Visit  U.S. Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel accepted an
invitation to visit Vietnam next year. He expressed a commitment
to boosting defense ties and cited the importance of the
peaceful resolution of territorial disputes in the  South China
Sea , according to a U.S. Defense Department  statement . Vietnam
is one of a number of claimants, alongside  China , to waters in
an area rich in fish, gas and oil.  Obama administration officials identify Vietnam as one of
the new partners they are cultivating as part of a strategic and
economic rebalance toward Asia, wrote Mark Manyin, a specialist
in Asian affairs, in a July Congressional Research Service note.  “We were foes before, but we are now friends,” Dung said
of the two countries. “We are ready to shelve the past and work
together toward the future for our common goal of peace,
friendship and cooperation on an equal footing for mutual
benefit and development.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  