-- Wal-Mart Supplier Bunzl Packs Reliability on Slow Trip to China
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-09-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/wal-mart-supplier-bunzl-packs-reliability-on-slow-trip-to-china.html
Bunzl Plc (BNZL) , the most reliable
company in the FTSE 100 Index for investors over the past
20 years, is hunting for Chinese distributors it can buy to
enter the world’s second-biggest economy.  It may take several years to do so, repeating a measured
approach that has benefited investors including Microsoft Corp.
founder  Bill Gates . Bunzl, the world’s largest distributor of
disposable tableware and food packaging, offers predictability
rather than volatility.  Bunzl, whose clients include  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , has been
on an acquisition tear for years,  buying  78 businesses in the
past decade. That’s no reason to speed up for  China , Chief
Executive Officer Mike Roney said in an interview.  “Assuming we find the right opportunity I would be
disappointed if we weren’t there in three years,” Roney, 59,
said at his office near  London ’s Hyde Park.  Bunzl is one of only three companies in the FTSE 100 that
have increased dividends every year for 20 years, according to
the company. The others are  Capita Plc (CPI) , a business services
firm, and  Weir Group Plc (WEIR) , a supplier of industrial pumps.
Bunzl’s stock gained ninefold in the period while the index rose
about 114 percent.  The shares have fallen  four times  on a calendar year basis
since 1993, fewer than any of the 60 companies in the index that
have been publicly traded that long, Bloomberg data show. Two of
the declines were 1.5 percent or less. The  shares  are up 34
percent this year, heading for their biggest gain since 2005.  Reliability Premium  From 2004 to 2012, Bunzl’s revenue,  operating profit  and
 dividend  all rose at a compounded annual rate of 9 percent to
11 percent, Roney said. It matched or beat those numbers in the
first half.  That makes Bunzl a steady source of income for investors
such as Gates, the world’s richest man and owner of about 5
percent of the stock, his largest publicly disclosed holding in
the U.K. The biggest shareholder in the 4.5 billion-pound
company is  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , according to Bunzl.  The stock “has never been more expensive,” Kames Capital,
owner of 1.1 percent, said in an e-mail. “In the current
environment, investors are happy to place a premium on
reliability.”  Most analysts would use the word overvalued.  Bunzl’s average analyst rating, based on buy, sell and hold
recommendations, is 2.65 on a 5-point scale, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Only  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW) ,
the worst-performing major European food retailer over the past
 12 months , and drugmaker AstraZeneca Plc have lower ratings
among FTSE 100 companies.  Above Target  Bunzl stock was 6.3 percent above its 12-month average
analyst price target at the close of trading Sept. 27,
suggesting it may fall. Only three FTSE 100 companies trade
proportionately higher.  “Within most investors and analysts there is this innate
desire to chase the latest fad,”  Mike Murphy , an analyst at
Numis Securities Ltd. who recommends buying the stock, said in
an interview. “They can’t see what is in front of their own
eyes. This is a Warren Buffett-type stock.”  Bunzl has an exclusive contract to supply Wal-Mart, the
world’s largest retailer, with non-food consumables such as
disposable cutlery and cleaning supplies, the U.K. company said.
Other clients include  Whitbread Plc (WTB) ’s Costa coffee shops.  Acquisitions fuel most of Bunzl’s growth, with purchases
since the start of 2004 costing 1.7 billion pounds ($2.7
billion) and adding annualized revenue of 2.6 billion pounds.
That’s almost half of 2012 sales.  Acquisition Accounting  “One of the paradoxes of the business is that two-thirds
of the growth comes from acquisitions yet almost none of the
acquisitions are in analysts’ future earnings calculations,”
said Roney, who became CEO in 2005. “We consistently pay about
six times earnings before interest and taxes.”  Some analysts consider delivering plastic forks pedestrian
and discount Bunzl’s achievements, said Murphy, the stock’s top-rated analyst according to Bloomberg data. It scores highly for
return on capital, growth and low volatility, he said.  The company can spend 200 million pounds a year on
purchases without increasing leverage, Roney said. “As we get
larger we will throw off more cash.”  The stock has outperformed this year as investors
recognized the value-creation potential of using spare cash for
acquisitions, Charles Wilson, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, said
in a note Sept. 27. He raised his recommendation to neutral from
sell and his price target by 21 percent to 1,470 pence.  Brazilian Doors  Bunzl, with only 43 head-office employees among more than
14,000 workers, took two years “knocking on doors” to make its
first purchase in  Brazil  in 2008, the CEO said. The slow pace
came in a country Roney knows well after serving as Brazil
manager for Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. during a 17-year  Latin
America  posting. He also favors Chile, Colombia and  Mexico  for
investment.  When Roney joined in 2003 as a non-executive director,
Bunzl operated in 12 countries, none in Latin America. It now
has businesses in 27 countries. The company envisages serving
companies operating along the Chinese coast from the port city
of Dalian to  Shanghai , where it has a sourcing operation.  Bunzl became a pure distributor in 2005 after  spinning off 
Filtrona Plc, a cigarette-filter maker now called Essentra Plc.
The company began as a haberdashery in 1854 and started making
paper in 1883 with a move from Bratislava to Vienna. Bunzl
expanded further after the family moved to London in 1938 at the
dawn of World War II.  While Roney looks for territory, he’s not interested in
branching beyond  six  areas -- grocery, food service, cleaning
and hygiene, safety, non-food retail and health care. “We would
look at tangential areas such as dental or veterinary and at
where we can consolidate sectors.”  The steady pace suits Kames Capital, according to the
Edinburgh-based investor. “It’s all very Bunzl.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  