-- Wheat Moving Average Signaling Further Rally: Technical Analysis
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-09-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/wheat-moving-average-signaling-further-rally-technical-analysis.html
Wheat futures in  Chicago  probably
will rally 7.6 percent in the next month after closing above the
100-day moving average twice last week, according to a  technical
analysis  by Toay Commodity Futures Group LLC.  Prices on the Chicago Board of Trade that touched a 13-month low in August have jumped 6.7 percent since Sept. 5 to
$6.83 a bushel at the end of last week. Wheat closed above the
moving average Sept. 26 and Sept. 27 and remained higher than an
uptrend line drawn off a December 2011 low, a sign that futures
may reach $7.35, the highest since May 3, said  Dave Marshall , a
Toay farm-marketing adviser.  “We held the long-term uptrend,” Marshal said by
telephone from Nashville,  Illinois . “The market was overdue for
a rally, and the move above the moving average will trigger new
buying.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators who bet on lower
prices may have to buy back contracts to close short positions,
boosting prices, Marshall said. The net-short  holdings  by money
managers fell 31 percent in the week ended Sept. 24 to 35,000
futures and options contracts, down from a 17-month high a week
earlier, data from Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.
In August 2012, speculators were net-long 80,827 contracts and
prices were above $9.  Buying also will be fueled by increased demand for U.S.
wheat as dry weather reduces exports in Australia and Argentina
and wet weather cuts crops and boosts demand from China and
Brazil, Marshall said. Later today, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  is expected to say supplies in the U.S. fell 7.6
percent on Sept. 1 from a year earlier, a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Wheat prices are 20 percent lower than a year ago.  “Export demand is improving,” Marshall said. “It should
be a quick rally as the funds rush in to cover short
positions.”  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a bond,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  