-- 
‘Naked’ Winemakers Battle Lab Wizards for Future of Wine: Books

-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 
2011-08-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/-naked-winemakers-battle-lab-wizards-for-future-of-wine-books.html
Three decades after America’s big-
time embrace of the grape in the 1970s, it’s time to ponder what
wine means at the philosophical bottom of the glass. A trio of
new books sees winemaking at a crossroads.  Let’s start with David Darlington’s “An Ideal Wine: One
Generation’s Pursuit of Perfection -- and Profit -- in
California” (HarperCollins, 352 pages, $25.99). This is the
best and most entertaining of several summer tomes charting
today’s obsession with defining the -- get used to this word --
“ideal” wine.  Darlington explores the polarities of what winemakers are
trying to achieve through the vision of two protagonists. One is
the high-tech laboratory wizard Leo McCloskey, chief executive
officer of Sonoma-based Enologix Inc.  For $20,000 a year, he helps winemakers “drain-down
sweet” and get their wines stylistically “in the right
ballpark,” which translates as getting their bottles into the
90+ ratings for  Robert Parker  and Wine Spectator scores, a leg
up in this competitive market.  The other is Randall Grahm, charismatic owner of Bonny Doon
Vineyard. He jettisoned his big brands and now touts the idea of
terroir and the uber-organic methods of biodynamics, surrounding
his latest wines with a soul-enhancing mystique. For him, the
ideal wine must have a sense of place and “life force.”  Darlington casts McCloskey as the wine world’s
Mephistopheles and Grahm as a modern Faust, consumed by a desire
for cosmic insight (the Goethe reference is his, not mine). The
fast-talking McCloskey, with his Platonic ideal of wine as a
sweet, luscious, polished, suave “cosmic comfort beverage,” is
not as much fun to read about as Grahm, who understands that
nothing else you can put in your mouth will ignite as much
comment, philosophizing, soul-searching and debate as wine.  Cork Corpse  Grahm’s greatest publicity success may have been his
“Death of the Cork” dinner in 2002 at Grand Central Terminal’s
Campbell Apartment, to announce that he was trading corks for
screwcaps. An open coffin with a cork-built corpse sat in front
of the grand fireplace as we ate black food inspired by J. K.
Huysmann’s 1884 novel “A Rebours” and drank 33 Bonny Doon
wines.  I’ve relished the literary parodies in his newsletter so
much that I’m disappointed his wines have rarely reached the
level of his prose. Grahm and McCloskey’s paths as protagonists
in the changing  California  wine scene, Darlington ambitiously
hopes, will illustrate “something about the modern soul.”  Well, he doesn’t achieve that, nor does he deliver on the
huge subject promised in his subtitle, and there may be too much
technical detail for all but the geeks. But in following the
stories of these warring wine world views, Darlington deftly
layers in juicy portraits of a dozen other baby-boomer
winemakers who looked for truth, goodness, and meaning in wine
and found the sobering realities of the business.  ‘Naked Wine’  The latest wine ideal is “natural wine,” which has come to
the fore in the past few years. So far, the best guide to the
movement is “Naked Wine” by Alice Feiring (DaCapo Press, 240
pages, $24), which she defines as wine to which “nothing has
been added and nothing taken away.”  That, it turns out, is not as easy as it sounds. As she
travels from New York to  Europe  to California, Feiring tries her
hand at making wine according to her principles, unravels the
origins and no-sulfur goals of the natural wine movement, and
visits its “saints” in cold, damp cellars.  The narrative has a stitched-together feeling of posts from
her blog, but is enlivened by the tractor beam of her insider’s
narrative: herself. She’s the main character and whether her
quirky, slightly self-important persona appeals or not will
determine how entertained you are. Feiring is funny, feisty,
self-absorbed and a passionate advocate.  Sharp Elbow  And she throws a sharp elbow. She perfectly nails self-
appointed international spokesman for biodynamics, Loire valley
winemaker Nicolas Joly -- who can talk as long and eloquently
about mystical subjects as Grahm but without the angst and humor
-- as “the Deepak Chopra of wine biodynamics.”  Like me, you may not be sure exactly where you draw the
line on the terroir and authenticity versus technologically
manipulated “industrial” wine spectrum. A look at the
scientific take on biodynamics and terroir in “Authentic Wine:
Toward Natural and Sustainable Winemaking” by Jamie Goode and
Sam Harrop (University of California Press, 240 pages, $29.95)
may help you decide.  Warning: Don’t pick this up thinking it’s a wine beach
read. Naturalness and authenticity may be today’s buzz words,
but most wines are taste-engineered in dozens of ways. Wineries
routinely use commercial fermentation yeasts designed to produce
particular flavors and aromas, add  Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ) ’s
Mega Purple (a natural reduced extract of grape skins) to deepen
color, and adjust acidity if a wine lacks it.  The U.S. government permits 200 additives in wine!  French barrel company  Seguin Moreau  just launched its Icone
barrel, which guarantees specific aroma and flavor profiles for
red wines.  As a winemaker once told me, the critics talk natural
wines, but the wines that have been tampered with are the ones
that score 95 in tasting tests. Sigh.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 