-- 
After Qaddafi, Libyans Will Have to Build a Free Society: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-22T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/after-qaddafi-libyans-will-have-to-build-a-free-society-view.html
The defeat of Libyan dictator
 Muammar Qaddafi ’s regime seems to be just hours or days away.
His fall will be a victory for the Libyan people whose
sacrifices made it possible.  Qaddafi’s ouster will also be a great day for those who
believe in freedom. Many around the world will take credit --
some deservedly, some not. First and foremost are the Libyans
who faced Qaddafi’s guns, withstood his artillery fire and
weren’t intimidated by his threats of retribution.  Others can claim credit, too. When the rebels asked for
help, NATO responded, albeit after some hesitation. Lost in all
the criticism of NATO’s air operation is the fact that the
mission accomplished its goal of preventing Qaddafi from
massacring the citizens of Benghazi and other rebel-held towns,
and slowly degraded his military forces. NATO remains unpopular
in the Middle East, but it is worth noting that its involvement
in Libya, like its air campaigns in Bosnia-Herzegovina and
 Kosovo , protected Muslim civilians from being abused or
massacred.  The British and French deserve special praise. They, not
the U.S., pushed the  United Nations Security Council  and NATO to
act. If not for British and French leadership, Qaddafi would
almost certainly have been given a free hand to crush the
uprising.  Libya’s story isn’t finished. The new leadership is about
to find that it is much easier to unseat a brutal dictator than
to build a democratic government and tolerant society. The next
few weeks may be chaotic and probably bloody as Libyans take
advantage of the breakdown in central authority to settle
scores. Any appraisal of the new government should consider what
would have happened had Qaddafi remained in power.  Qaddafi Loyalists  The Transitional National Council should resist the
temptation to seek reprisal against Qaddafi loyalists. Qaddafi,
his son Saif al-Islam, and intelligence chief Abdullah al-Senusi
have been indicted by the  International Criminal Court . If
captured alive, they should be sent to The Hague for trial.
Other Qaddafi cronies might face justice in  Libya . If so, they
should be afforded fair trials. The transitional council will
also be expected to demonstrate that it will rise above tribe
and clan by giving equal rights to Libyans from all parts of the
country.  The U.S. and its European allies should offer Libya’s new
leaders the help they need to build a system of government and
modernize the economy. Jihadist groups are active in the poorly
governed territory south of Libya. Helping Libya build a
functioning, democratic government is the best way of preventing
extremists from establishing a stronghold in the country’s
southern desert.  Taking Note  We hope that Bashar al-Assad, another dictator in the
Middle East facing a popular rebellion, takes note of events in
Libya. Qaddafi assumed that tribal ties and generous amounts of
money would keep his army, particularly the vaunted Khamis
Brigade commanded by one of his sons, loyal and fighting. Yet,
when faced with the inevitability of a rebel victory, the army
melted away.  Like Qaddafi, Assad is relying on the loyalty of his
security forces to preserve his hold on power. To that end, he
has put relatives in command of critical units composed mainly
of fellow  Alawites . Assad still has time to step down and go
into exile. If he doesn’t, he risks sharing Qaddafi’s fate.  Qaddafi’s 42-year dictatorship represents the old  Middle
East . He was overthrown by his own people, most of whom grew up
under his rule and knew nothing else. It is up to the Libyan
people to decide if they have exchanged dictatorship for freedom
or for a different form of dictatorship. The West should be
prepared to help, but Libya’s fate is in their hands.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 