-- 
Thai Growth Unexpectedly Slows on Japan Quake Disruptions, Global Economy

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-08-22T03:59:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/thailand-says-economy-grew-a-slower-than-estimated-2-6-in-second-quarter.html
Thailand ’s economic expansion
unexpectedly slowed last quarter after the earthquake in  Japan 
disrupted trade and as faltering recoveries in the U.S. and
 Europe  cloud the outlook for global growth.  Gross domestic product rose 2.6 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, after climbing a revised 3.2
percent in the previous quarter, the National Economic and
Social Development Board said in Bangkok today. The median of 13
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 3.6 percent gain.  Thailand joins Asian neighbors from  Malaysia  to  Taiwan  in
reporting an easing in growth as a weakening global economy
threatens to crimp demand for exports. At the same time, Prime
Minister Yingluck Shinawatra is poised to fulfill spending
pledges that lifted her to victory in July’s general election,
policies that may cushion expansion while stoking inflation.  “It’s definitely worse than forecast, but understandable
given the supply-chain disruption after the Japanese earthquake
and the slowdown of major economies in the second quarter,” said
Nalin Chutchotitham, a Bangkok-based market analyst at
Kasikornbank Pcl. “The GDP growth figure shouldn’t affect the
Bank of Thailand’s desire to hike rates to curb inflation
expectations.”  Yingluck is set to announce her policies in parliament
tomorrow ahead of the central bank’s rate meeting the day after.
The Bank of Thailand will raise borrowing costs by 0.25
percentage point on Aug. 24 for the seventh straight meeting,
taking the key rate to 3.5 percent, 11 of 14 economists said in
a Bloomberg News survey. Three expect no change.  Post-Election Gains  The benchmark SET Index of stocks declined 0.8 percent as
of 10:44 a.m. local time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The baht was little changed at 29.83 against the  U.S.
dollar .  Stocks and the currency have climbed since the July 3 vote,
which passed without protests in a country that has had nine
coups since 1946. The currency has risen 3.1 percent in the
period and the SET Index is up 1.9 percent, holding on to gains
even as a global rout wiped close to $7 trillion off shares
worldwide this month.  Thailand’s GDP declined 0.2 percent last quarter from three
months earlier, compared with a 2 percent rise in the previous
period, today’s report showed. The development board cut its
growth forecast for 2011 to 3.5 percent to 4 percent, from 3.5
percent to 4.5 percent earlier.  Growth Outlook  GDP will probably climb 5 percent in the second half, aided
by recoveries in the auto and electronics industries, Asian
expansion and domestic political stability, the board’s
Secretary-General Arkhom Termpittayapaisith said. The global
slowdown is the “key” risk to the outlook, he said.  Supply-chain disruption, slow budget disbursement by the
government and high product prices hurt growth in the second
quarter, Arkhom said.  Yingluck, whose brother Thaksin Shinawatra was ousted as
leader in a 2006 coup, has promised to almost double the minimum
wage in some parts of the country, pay farmers about 50 percent
more for rice, add rail lines and given students free tablet PCs.  The government doesn’t “want to look only at inflation”
and seeks to boost “the economy as a whole,” Yingluck said
last week. The Bank of Thailand, which has called for
“harmony” between fiscal and monetary policies, said last
month that pay rises and increased spending may fuel price
pressures.  Price Pressures  Consumer-price growth held above 4 percent for the fourth
straight month in July as food and fuel prices climbed, while
 core inflation  accelerated to 2.59 percent, closer to the
central bank’s 3 percent ceiling.  “Core inflation should peak in the first quarter next year
and it will be above the central bank’s target,” said Pornthep Jubandhu, an economist at Siam Commercial Bank Pcl in Bangkok.
“The monetary authority needs further rate hikes to calm rising
inflation expectations.”  Companies such as Bangkok-based  Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl (CPF) ,
Thailand’s biggest animal feed and food producer, expect sales
to climb as the administration’s policies boost purchasing power.  Elsewhere in  Asia , cooling economic growth is increasing
pressure to delay further monetary tightening. Malaysia and
Taiwan expanded at the slowest pace since 2009 last quarter from
a year earlier, while  Singapore  shrank an annualized 6.5 percent.  Thailand’s manufacturing output increased for the first
time in five months in June as supply disruptions sparked by the
Japan disaster eased, boosting the automotive industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  