-- 
Taiwan Stocks Rise on Government Support Speculation; TSMC Gains

-- B y   A d e l a   L i n
-- 
2011-08-22T02:57:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/taiwan-s-stocks-rise-most-in-asia-as-exchange-endorses-buybacks.html
Taiwanese equities rose for the
first time in five days as an endorsement of share buybacks by
the stock exchange fueled speculation the government will take
steps to bolster markets.  Taiwan ’s Taiex Index gained 0.4 percent to 7,370.25 as of
10:52 a.m. in Taipei. The gauge jumped as much as 1.7 percent
following a four-day, 6.1 percent slump. Cathay Financial
Holding Co., the island’s largest listed financial services
company, jumped 1.8 percent. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. rose 2.5 percent.  “The local bourse was lifted by expectations of government
support following previous declines,” Edward Chen, vice
president at Taiwan-based First Capital Management Inc., said by
phone today. “Major government funds and banks that are
partially owned by the government may have bought into large-cap
stocks and financial shares to bolster sentiment.”  Mounting concerns that the U.S. economic recovery is
faltering and  Europe ’s debt crisis will worse has fueled a
global stock-market rout that has dragged the Taiex Index almost
20 percent below its January high. The selloff prompted Taiwan’s
government to buy stocks on Aug. 8 and Aug. 9 through four funds
it controls.  Tseng Ming-chung, Taiwan’s deputy finance minister,
declined to comment today if the four funds had bought equities
to support the market. Philip Yang, a spokesman for Taiwan’s
Cabinet, didn’t immediately answer calls to his mobile phone.  The Taiwan stock exchange asked companies to continue to
buy back shares and hold briefings to boost investors’
confidence, the bourse said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
This follows a similar move by the island’s Financial
Supervisory Commission on Aug. 9.  Ninety-six listed companies have announced share buyback
plans from June 1 to Aug. 19, of which 83 are still ongoing, the
statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  