-- 
All Latin America GDP Growth Forecasts Cut Except Chile by Morgan Stanley

-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-08-22T17:17:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/all-latin-america-gdp-growth-forecasts-cut-except-chile-by-morgan-stanley.html
Morgan Stanley cut its forecast for
Latin American economic growth this year and next, saying the
region is “unlikely to be spared” from a global slowdown.  The region’s economies will expand 3.6 percent next year
from a previous forecast of 4.6 percent, as slower growth in
 Europe  and the U.S. takes its toll on demand for the region’s
commodities, Morgan Stanley’s chief  Latin America  economist,
 Gray Newman , said in an e-mailed report.  “An extended bout of weakness in the developed world is
likely to see both Chinese exports and import demand soften and
with that commodity prices, which have underpinned Latin
America’s era of abundance,” the report said. “Ultimately, we
concluded that Latin America would unlikely be spared.”  The slower growth outlook means that central banks across
the region will now hold or cut borrowing costs, the report
said. Countries including Brazil, Peru, Colombia and Chile have
all raised  interest rates  this year to cool inflationary
pressure. Morgan Stanley economist Arthur Carvalho expects
 Brazil ’s central bank to begin cutting rates by mid-2012 to 11.5
percent, from 12.5 percent today.  Lower Growth  Colombia’s central bank unexpectedly kept its benchmark
interest rate unchanged last week for the first time in seven
months, citing “high uncertainty in international financial
markets.” Chile’s central bank last week kept borrowing costs
unchanged for the second consecutive month.  All growth forecasts for Latin America, except for Chile,
were cut by one percentage point, the report said. Chile was
left unchanged since its gross domestic product was growing from
a lower base due to the 2010 earthquake, Newman said in a
telephone interview from  New York .  Morgan Stanley also trimmed its 2011 growth forecast for
the region to 4.4 percent, from 4.6 percent.  Compared with advanced countries, the region’s economies
have less debt, and low fiscal and current account deficits,
meaning they will only suffer lower growth rather than a “fully
fledged financial crisis,” according to Morgan Stanley.  Argentina and  Venezuela  are the countries at greatest risk
of a “non-linear event,” Newman said.  Some regional economies are already showing signs of
cooling. Brazil’s economic activity shrank in June for the first
time since December 2008 and business confidence in the second
quarter slid to its lowest level since 2009.  Mexico’s industrial production fell 0.6 percent in June
from May, its biggest decline in two years. The Mexican peso is
likely to be the Latin currency hardest hit by a slowdown, due
to Mexico’s close links to the fragile  U.S. economy , the report
said.  Commodities prices have fallen 15 percent since the end of
April, according to the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Faries in  Buenos Aires  at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Harry Maurer at 
 hmaurer@bloomberg.net . 