-- 
Amlin Swings into Loss in First Half on ’Unprecedented’ Catastrophe Losses

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-22T08:03:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/amlin-swings-into-loss-in-first-half-on-unprecedented-catastrophe-losses.html
Amlin Plc (AML) , the biggest Lloyd’s of
London insurer by market value, expects to recoup its record
catastrophe losses in the second half as premiums increase,
Chief Executive Officer Charles Philipps said.  The insurer today posted a net loss of 151.7 million pounds
($250 million) in the first six months of the year, compared
with a profit of 84.5 million pounds in the year-earlier period,
after record claims from natural disasters in  Japan ,  New Zealand 
and Australia.  “We expect to materially or significantly recoup these
losses,” Philipps said on a call with reporters. “It is
subject to the level of second-half catastrophe activity.”  Claims from earthquakes in Japan and New Zealand, floods in
 Australia  and windstorms in the U.S. have made the first six
months of this year the most costly for insurers on record.
Amlin writes more policies in these areas than rivals, Philipps
said. The insurer aims to return to profit by charging higher
premium rates for those areas in the second half, he added.  “The company seem confident that rates are rising
materially and that they will materially recoup the underwriting
losses, and return to high levels of profitability,”  Marcus Barnard , a London-based analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. with a
“reduce” rating on the stock, wrote in a note to clients
today. “This sounds like wishful thinking.”  The stock dropped as much as 1.9 percent and was down 0.4
percent at 321.5 pence at 8:48 a.m. in London trading, for a
market value of about 1.6 billion pounds.  Amlin will pay a first-half dividend of 7.2 pence a share,
the same as in the year-earlier period. Lloyd’s competitors
Hiscox Ltd.,  Beazley Plc (BEZ)  and Novae Group Plc all raised their
first-half dividends.  Corporate Insurance  The pretax loss of 192.3 million pounds was wider than the
174 million-pound median loss estimated by eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The stock tumbled the most since the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks on Aug. 2 after the company said it was likely to miss
profit forecasts this year. Claims from this year’s New Zealand
earthquake were higher than expected and profits from Amlin
Corporate Insurance, which the firm bought in 2009, will be
lower than previously estimated, the insurer said this month.  “A lot of our peers are more concentrated in their
exposures in the  United States ,” Philipps said. “It’s outside
the U.S. that we can have a little bit of a larger loss than our
competitors.”  Amlin Corporate Insurance, which the insurer bought in
2009, made an underwriting loss of 43.1 million pounds after
paying out for four claims in its property and marine accounts.  “We believe that’s bad luck, as opposed to bad
underwriting,” Philipps said, saying the firm had conducted a
review of ACI’s operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  