-- 
Mammogram Rates Declined After Women Gave Up Hormone Therapy

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-08-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/mammogram-rates-declined-after-women-gave-up-hormone-therapy.html
American women who gave up hormone
therapy after a study linked the menopause treatment to breast
cancer and  heart disease  also  cut back  on mammograms, perhaps as
a result of fewer doctor visits, researchers said.  Mammography rates fell in 2005 for the first time since at
least 1987, stumping public health officials who recommend
routine use to detect small, easier-to-treat tumors. Use of
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Prempro hormone replacement plummeted after a U.S.
government study in 2002 tied it to the potentially deadly side
effects, a report in the journal  Cancer  found.  The drops in hormone use and mammograms appear to be
related, said lead researcher Nancy Breen, an economist at the
 National Cancer Institute  in Rockville,  Maryland . As women went
to the doctor less often to renew prescriptions, they had fewer
reminders to schedule breast exams, she said.  Breast cancer 
rates also declined after the study results were released and
stemmed mainly from lower hormone use, she said.  “With the  Women’s Health Initiative  study results finding
a connection between hormone therapy and breast cancer
incidence, you can see why women would want to stop going to the
doctor for that, but they shouldn’t stop getting mammograms,”
Breen said in a telephone interview.  The researchers are now concerned that the decrease in
mammogram rates might lead to additional and more-advanced
tumors being diagnosed later, Breen said. The missed mammograms
may account for a small portion of the initial decline seen in
breast cancer rates, she said.  Mammography Rates Drop  The researchers evaluated data from the National Health
Interview Surveys taken in 2000 and 2005 to compare rates of
hormone use and mammography. While 41 percent of women aged 50
to 64 reported taking hormones in 2000, the percent dropped to
16 percent by 2005. Mammograms were done within two years for 78
percent of the women in 2000, and 73 percent five years later.  The change in mammogram rates among women older than 65
wasn’t tied to hormone use, the researchers found. While less
than 10 percent of older women used the pills in 2005, down from
almost 20 percent five years earlier, there wasn’t a similar,
significant drop in mammogram rates, the study found.  About 6.4 million women ages 50 to 64 stopped taking
hormones and 1.2 million missed their mammograms between 2000
and 2005, the researchers estimated. In comparison, 2 million
older women, many of whom no longer suffered the menopausal
symptoms targeted by treatment, stopped hormone therapy and half
a million fewer had mammograms, they said.  “Our research corroborates that a doctor’s recommendation
is an important step in getting a mammogram and it shows that
when circumstances change, such as evidence about hormone
therapy, it can upset the balance and lead to unanticipated and
undesirable changes in mammography use,” Breen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  