-- 
Hamptons Scene: Daniel Loeb, Anjelica Huston, Chris Blackwell

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-08-22T15:04:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/hamptons-scene-daniel-loeb-anjelica-huston-chris-blackwell-at-rum-fest.html
On the beach in Montauk last night,
 Daniel Loeb , chief executive and founder of Third Point LLC,
chatted about surfing with Adam Lindemann, a collector and
investor.  Standing close to the water, Anjelica Huston said she is
playing actor Joseph Gordon-Levitt’s mom in “50/50,” a comedy
out next month about a young man’s fight against cancer.  Art dealer  David Zwirner , his wife and children in tow,
talked about his first show of the fall, a benefit for Artists
for Haiti opening Sept. 6. It features works by  Jeff Koons ,
Jasper Johns and others, to be auctioned at Christie’s
International Plc on Sept. 22. “I worked on it with  Ben Stiller ,” Zwirner said.  The excuse for the party, held at the restaurant Navy
Beach, was the U.S. debut of  Blackwell Fine Jamaican Rum . Other
guests included Jimmy Buffett, chef Marcus Samuelsson and  Julian Schnabel .  The rum’s namesake is Chris Blackwell, founder of Island
Records, who popularized reggae music through  Bob Marley  and
other Jamaican artists. He also founded Island Outpost, a group
of resorts.  Blackwell’s latest venture is a dark rum with hints of
caramel and toasted coconut. The bottle features a map of
Jamaica noting the locations of the Island Outpost resorts.  “It’s sort of just fun, really,” said Blackwell of tying
the brands together.  Jamaican Vibe  Party planners didn’t have to work too hard to bring a
Jamaican vibe to the shores of Montauk. Beautiful female guests
danced to reggae music, and waitresses passed around crab cakes,
ribs and cornmeal pudding.  Loeb sampled the Jamaican jerk chicken and vegetables on a
skewer.  One of the cocktails was the GoldenEye, named after the
Island Outpost resort called GoldenEye, which is set on the
property where Ian Fleming, of James Bond fame, wrote his spy
novels. The GoldenEye is a rum punch made with pineapple and
orange juice.  The fine print on the cocktail menu included an offer for a
complimentary night at the resort, with the tagline, “Have your
next GoldenEye at the GoldenEye.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 