-- 
Amtrak’s Acela Train May Go Faster After $4.5 Million Per-Second Upgrade

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-08-22T20:58:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/amtrak-acela-to-get-4-5m-per-second-upgrade.html
Amtrak ’s Acela trains may travel up
to 160 miles per hour (257 kph) along 24 miles of track in  New
Jersey  after improvements financed by $450 million in U.S.
grants that  House Republicans  wanted to use for flood relief.  Trains on the stretch of revamped track between Trenton and
Brunswick, New Jersey, south of  New York , will be able to exceed
today’s maximum 135 mph, the Federal Railroad Administration
said today in an e-mailed statement announcing $745 million in
grants for Northeast Corridor work.  Going 160 miles per hour on that 24-mile segment compared
with 135 mph would save about a minute and 40 seconds, meaning
$4.5 million would be spent for each second of improvement.  “With our population expected to grow by 100 million more
people between now and 2050, we are investing in a high-speed
rail system that connects to other modes of transportation,
reduces congestion and improves the efficiency and reliability
of travel in America,” Federal Railroad Administrator Joseph C. Szabo said in the statement.  Amtrak  trains could reach 186 mph on the improved stretch
with new locomotives and passenger cars, the rail administration
said.  Another $295 million will be spent on a junction in Queens
to separate Amtrak trains traveling between New York and  Boston 
from Long Island Railroad, Metro-North and New Jersey Transit
commuter trains.  Florida  Grant  The money for both projects benefiting Amtrak, the U.S.
taxpayer-supported passenger railroad, comes from $2.4 billion
in high-speed rail grants awarded to Florida from the 2009
economic stimulus package. Florida sent the money back earlier
this year, and the U.S. government said in May it would
redistribute the money, including $450 million to Amtrak.  The spending announced today is the first step to allowing
220-mph train service on the Northeast Corridor, and will
improve service reliability on the tracks that also carry  New
Jersey Transit  and Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation
Authority trains,  Steve Kulm , an Amtrak spokesman, said.  “This is a piece of the first segment of our high-speed
rail improvement program to get us to 220” miles an hour, Kulm
said in an interview. “You need some additional work to be done
to get the real time savings.”  Other projects along the corridor to increase speeds
include improving tunnels and stations and adding track
capacity, he said.  A U.S. House proposal passed last month would have diverted
some of the high-speed rail stimulus money that states rejected
to Midwest flood-relief efforts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  