-- 
Manchester United Agrees on $66 Million Training-Kit Sponsorship With DHL

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 
2011-08-22T19:43:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/manchester-united-agrees-on-66-million-training-kit-sponsorship-with-dhl.html
Manchester United , winner of a
record 19 English soccer championships, announced a four-year
agreement for delivery company DHL to sponsor its training
apparel, a deal that two people familiar with the matter said is
worth about 40 million pounds ($66 million).  The contract is the first time any Premier League club has
sold rights to sponsor only its training wear and is worth about
half of the 80 million pounds the team receives from principal
sponsor Aon Corp., said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the price isn’t public.  “This deal breaks new ground in the English game,”
Manchester United’s Chief Executive Officer David Gill said in a
statement. “We are delighted that DHL has chosen to pioneer
training kit sponsorship with the Club.  Their global presence
and international standing are a perfect fit for the world’s
most popular football club.”  The plan comes as United plans an initial public offering
in  Singapore  to raise $1 billion later this year, three people
familiar with the IPO plans said last week. A stake of up to 30
percent may be sold, said one of the people.  Thanks to a series of sponsorships in recent years the
team’s commercial revenue has surged to about 100 million pounds
annually, bringing that part of the business in line with income
from television and matches at United’s Old Trafford Stadium.  The club also plans to announce next month a sponsorship
deal with Malaysian snack-maker  Mamee Double Decker Bhd. (MAMEE) ’s
Mister Potato brand, said three people familiar with the matter.  Shirt Sponsors  The amount of money DHL is paying for the contract is more
than most other teams in the 20-team Premier League get from
their main sponsors. Only Liverpool, Chelsea, Tottenham and
 Manchester City  make more than 10 million pounds from their main
shirt sponsor, according to official figures and U.K. media
reports. DHL has been United’s official logistics partner for a
year and helped arrange this summer’s off-season tour to the
U.S.  “This strategic partnership will see DHL getting more
involved in the behind the scenes operations of Manchester
United and supporting the club in its continued success,” said
John Pearson, CEO DHL Express ( Europe ).  Aon, the shirt sponsor, is “very pleased with the benefits
we are seeing from our principal sponsorship of Manchester
United and having our name on the front of the team shirt,” Aon
Corp. spokesman David Prosperi said in an e-mail. “We welcome
DHL to the Manchester United family.”  The Glazer family, which owns Manchester United, have
decided to float the business to cut finance costs linked to a
500 million-pound bond used to pay for their 2005 purchase, one
of the people said. Revenue has doubled to 300 million pounds
since then, though interest payments of about 45 million pounds
have angered supporters who say the money should be used to buy
players.  Richest in Revenue  The club, which Forbes magazine estimates is now worth
$1.8 billion and Deloitte LLP says is the third-richest in
revenue behind Real Madrid and Barcelona in a list published in
February 2011, has about 190 million of its 330 million fans in
 Asia .  The agreement with DHL, which once had an accord with  Major
League Baseball , allows the delivery company’s logo to be
displayed on the clubs’ training kit worn by all first, reserve
and youth team players during domestic competitions, an official
press release said.  Mamee Double Decker will get the use of Manchester United’s
Red Devil logo and images of star players such as  Wayne Rooney 
and  Javier Hernandez , according to one of the people familiar
with the plan.  Ex-JPMorgan Chase & Co. banker Edward Woodward, the team’s
chief of staff, and former Walt Disney Co. executive Richard
Arnold, United’s commercial director, restructured the club’s
sponsorship strategy in 2008 to capitalize on its global appeal.  League Titles  United now signs regional and sector-specific deals as well
as preserving the rights of global partners, allowing commercial
revenue, excluding shirt sales, to grow 10-fold to 40 million
pounds since June 2008.  The contract with Mamee Double Decker will be the most
recent to be signed with an Asian company.  Existing sponsors from Asia include  India ’s  Bharti Airtel
Ltd. (BHARTI) , South Korean tire-maker Kumho Tire Co. and Thai beer brand
Singha. In August, the club signed  PCCW Ltd. (8)  as its official
telecommunications and broadcast partner for  Hong Kong . South
African telecoms operator MTN Group Ltd and  Turkish Airlines  are
among its other partners.  The team has won four Premier League titles and appeared in
three Champions League finals, winning in 2008, since it was
bought by the Glazers in 2005.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Tariq Panja in London at +44-20-7073-3677 or
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at +65-
6311-2423 or  vallikappen@bloomberg.net  