-- 
Manchester Utd. Beats Spurs 3-0 to Extend Premier League Home Winning Run

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-23T00:48:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/manchester-united-beats-spurs-3-0-to-share-lead-in-premier-league-soccer.html
Manchester United  scored three
second-half goals to beat Tottenham and extend its club-record
home winning streak in the Premier League to 16 matches.  Danny Welbeck  got defending champion United’s opener in the
61st minute last night and set up the second for Anderson.  Wayne Rooney  then scored in the closing minutes at Old Trafford in
Manchester to give United a 3-0 win.  United started the match with its second-youngest team
since  England ’s Premier League began in 1992. Striker Welbeck,
20, midfielder Tom Cleverley, 22, and 19-year-old defender  Phil
Jones  lined up in front of goalkeeper David de Gea, who at 20
was half the age of his opposite number  Brad Friedel .  “We’ve always had confidence to play young players,”
United manager  Alex Ferguson  said in a televised interview.
“But this group have such fantastic ability, it forces me to
play them really.”  United, which last failed to win a Premier League match at
Old Trafford on Oct. 16, joined crosstown rival  Manchester City 
and Wolves as the only teams to have won their first two games
of the season. It was Spurs’ campaign opener.  The home team took the lead last night just after the hour
when Welbeck met Cleverley’s cross with a header that flew
across Tottenham goalkeeper Friedel into the corner of the net.  It was Welbeck’s second league goal for United, his
previous strike coming three seasons ago against Stoke. He
credited the quality of Cleverley’s assist.  ‘Good Understanding’  “I’ve been playing with Tom ever since I was a young
kid,” Welbeck told MUTV. “We’ve got a good understanding. I
knew exactly where he was going to put the cross and thankfully
I got my head onto the end of it.”  Welbeck joined United in 2007 as a trainee and spent the
past year on loan at Sunderland and Preston. Cleverley also came
up through United’s academy ranks and played for three seasons
at Leicester, Watford and Wigan.  Four minutes after Welbeck scored, Rooney forced U.S.
national goalkeeper Friedel to dive high to his right to turn a
shot around the post.  United went 2-0 up in the 76th minute. Anderson played the
ball to Welbeck, whose back-heeled flick allowed the Brazilian
midfielder to slide a rising left-foot shot past Friedel.  “They have such composure,” United captain Patrice Evra,
at 30 the oldest player in the starting lineup by almost four
years, said of his younger teammates. “They want to prove to
the manager that they are ready to play on the team. It’s good
for us because we need some energy and they have that.”  Within two minutes of Anderson’s goal, Friedel had dived to
make a save at the feet of Nani and United goalkeeper De Gea,
signed from  Atletico Madrid  in June, botched an attempted catch
as he leaped for a high cross. The ball bobbled out of his arms
to  Jermain Defoe , whose right-foot shot struck a post.  Rooney added United’s third by heading in Ryan Giggs’s
flicked cross in the 87th minute.  “Our second-half performance was absolutely fantastic,”
Ferguson said. “We just took off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  