-- 
Manchester United Said to Sign Mister Potato Deal Before Share Offering

-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-08-22T09:04:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/manchester-united-said-to-sign-sponsor-deal-with-malaysia-s-mister-potato.html
Manchester United  Ltd., the record
19-time English soccer champion, will sign a sponsorship deal
with Malaysian snacks maker  Mamee Double Decker Bhd.  next month,
said three people familiar with the matter.  The tie-up is with Mister Potato, a brand of potato crisps
and chips made by the Kuala Lumpur-listed company, said the
people who did not want to be identified before the signing and
official announcement in the middle of September. The brand’s
market share in  Malaysia  for potato products was as much as 48
percent last year, according to the company’s website.  The plan comes as the Premier League team plans an initial
public offering in  Singapore  to raise $1 billion later this
year, three people familiar with the IPO plans said last week. A
stake of up to 30 percent may be sold, said one of the people.
The club wants to cut financing costs and raise money that could
be used for players. It spends about 45 million pounds ($74
million) a year to service a 500 million-pound bond.  The club, which Forbes magazine estimates is now worth $1.8
billion and Deloitte LLP says is the richest in revenue behind
Real Madrid and Barcelona in a list published in February 2011,
has about 190 million of its 330 million fans in  Asia .  Manchester United declined to comment on the deal, as did
Paul Anand, an outside spokesman for Mamee Double Decker.  “The multitude of local events we run with global and
local partners, and a prospective forthcoming tour of Asia in
2012, necessitate expanding our footprint both with people and
office space,” Manchester United said in a statement earlier
this month. “This is consistent with the huge appeal of
Manchester United in the region, borne out of nearly 40 years of
visiting.”  Strategic Shift  The deal with Mamee Double Decker will allow the use of
Manchester United’s Red Devil logo and images of star players
such as Wayne Rooney and  Javier Hernandez , according to one of
the people familiar with the plan.  Under the U.S.-based Glazer family, the team’s owners, and
former JPMorgan Chase & Co. banker Edward Woodward, the team’s
chief of staff, Manchester United changed the way it deals with
sponsors in 2008 to capitalize on its global appeal.  The club has signed regional and sector-specific deals as
well as preserving the rights of global partners, allowing
commercial revenue, excluding shirt sales, to grow 10-fold to 40
million pounds since June 2008.  The team’s principal sponsor  Aon Corp. (AON)  agreed to pay 80
million pounds for the right to have its name emblazoned on the
team’s shirt for four years. The contract with Mammee Double
Decker, will be the latest to be signed with an Asian company,  Asian Sponsors  Existing sponsors from Asia include  India ’s  Bharti Airtel
Ltd. (BHARTI) , South Korean tire-maker Kumho Tire Co. and Thai beer brand
Singha. In August, the club signed  PCCW Ltd. (8)  as its official
telecommunications and broadcast partner for  Hong Kong .  The team has won four Premier League titles and appeared in
three Champions League finals, winning in 2008, since it was
bought by the Glazers in 2005. A decline in performances on the
field won’t affect its income from sponsors because none of the
contracts carry success clauses.  Overall commercial revenue is close to passing 100 million
pounds for the first time, which would bring it in line with the
team’s broadcast and match day income. The club has 70 employees
in a London-based commercial sales office and plans to relocate
to a larger property. It’s also seeking to open an office in
Asia. The team is seeking global partners in the energy,
information technology and mobile-phone industries.  The club’s revenue puts it in third place globally for
sales behind  Spain ’s Real Madrid and  Barcelona . Last month,
Premier League rival Arsenal announced record sales of 379.9
million pounds on property sales. Yet, the sales for the team’s
soccer activities declined by 1.3 percent to 222.9 million
pounds.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
 Tariq Panja  in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  