-- 
Aquarius Declines Most in Year After Zimbabwe Rejects Ownership Proposal

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-08-22T17:35:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/aquarius-declines-most-since-may-in-johannesburg-on-zimbabwe-1-.html
Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) , the fourth-
largest producer of the metal, declined the most in more than a
year after saying Zimbabwe’s government rejected a proposed plan
by its Mimosa Holdings unit to sell stakes to black Zimbabweans
as required by law.  The stock fell as much as 14 percent, the biggest intraday
slump since July 2010, and closed down 6 percent at 27.27 rand
by 5 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Mimosa received a letter on Aug. 19 from Indigenization
Minister  Saviour Kasukuwere  that rejects Mimosa’s plan and
requires the company to submit a revised proposal by the end of
August, the company said in a statement today. Aquarius owns 50
percent of Mimosa and earned 25 percent of its revenue from the
operation in the year through June, according to its  website .  “The majority of the concerns are probably largely priced
in; there isn’t going to be a speedy resolution given the
divided nature of the government in  Zimbabwe ,” Edward Sterck,
an analyst at Bank of Montreal, said by phone from  London .
“Given the number of companies they need to have a dialogue
with it’s not going to be a quick one and I don’t think the
government is putting forward suggestion on how this will be
achieved.”  Zimbabwe has the world’s second-biggest platinum and chrome
reserves after  South Africa . Zimbabwe issued a March 25 decree
giving foreign companies 45 days to explain how they will sell
51 percent of their assets to citizens of the country. The
decree followed approval of the Indigenization and Empowerment
Act.  About 700 companies have submitted their indigenization
plans to the government, the Herald said on Aug. 1. If accepted,
the companies have five years in which to dispose of their
shares, according to the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  