-- 
Hartalega, KPJ, Star, Tenaga, TSH, UMW: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-08-22T00:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/hartalega-kpj-star-tenaga-tsh-umw-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  Malaysia’s  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index fell 1.3 percent
to 1,483.98 on Aug. 19.  Hartalega Holdings Bhd. (HART)  : The synthetic-glove
maker said it will pay a minimum of 45 percent of its full-year
net profit as dividends starting this fiscal year, the company
said in a statement. The stock dropped 0.9 percent to 5.55
ringgit.  KPJ Healthcare Bhd. (KPJ)  : The health-care group
reported a 3.4 percent rise in second-quarter net income to 30.2
million ringgit ($10 million), according to an exchange filing.
Its shares were unchanged at 4.57 ringgit.  Star Publications Bhd. (STAR MK): The newspaper publisher
said it will sell land for 135 million ringgit to  JAKS Resources
Bhd. (JAK)  . Star will relocate its multi-media and radio
divisions to a building to be developed on the site, it said in
an exchange filing. Star rose 1.2 percent to 3.39 ringgit.  Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB)  : Malaysia’s biggest power
producer said it may not be able to maintain its dividend
payments this fiscal year due to higher fuel costs. The Kuala
Lumpur-company has incurred an additional 400 million-ringgit a
month expense to buy alternative fuels for its power stations
due to a shortfall in gas supply, it said in an exchange filing.
Tenaga fell 3.1 percent to 5.55 ringgit.  TSH Resources Bhd. (TSH)  : The oil palm planter and
distributor of cocoa beans said second-quarter net income more
than tripled to 36 million ringgit, according to an exchange
filing. The stock was unchanged at 3.15 ringgit.  UMW Holdings Bhd. (UMWH)  : The automaker said second-
quarter net income dropped 38 percent to 131.2 million ringgit
after Japan’s earthquake and tsunami temporarily disrupted parts
supplies. Sales are expected to improve in the second half of
this year, it said in a statement. UMW dropped 3.1 percent to
7.22 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net  