-- 
Asia Stocks Fall as QE3 Speculation Fails to Ease Europe Concern

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-08-22T10:42:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/asian-stocks-retreat-for-third-day-as-germany-s-merkel-resists-euro-bonds.html
Asian stocks fell for a third day,
with the regional benchmark index heading for its lowest close
in almost a year, as speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will
announce further measures to stimulate the economy failed to
temper concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , a carmaker that gets 28 percent of
sales from North America, sank 2.5 percent in  Tokyo  after the
yen touched a post-World War II record, harming the outlook for
the country’s exporters.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Australia’s
biggest steelmaker, slumped 5.7 percent after it swung to a loss
in the second half.  Inpex Corp. (1605) ,  Japan ’s largest oil explorer,
declined 3.9 percent as crude fell for a third day.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 1 percent to 118.38 as
of 7:40 p.m. in Tokyo, headed for its lowest close since
September 2010. Almost three stocks declined for each that
advanced on the measure, which rose as much as 0.4 percent.  Global equities erased more than $8.2 trillion in market
value in the past four weeks as investors took flight after
reports showed the world’s biggest economy is slowing, sparking
speculation Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will signal
this weekend a third-round of Fed asset purchases to help
sustain the economic recovery.  “It’s not certain to us what the Federal Reserve can say
to calm people’s nerves,” Don Williams, chief investment
officer at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “Stocks are cheap but the
outlook for most companies is murkier than it’s been since 2008.
This period of volatility that we’re in has still got a way to
play out.”  Nikkei, U.S. Futures  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slipped 1 percent, after
swinging between gains and losses at least 17 times. Singapore
Straits Times Index fell 0.1 percent, paring losses of as much
as 1.9 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.5 percent,
having swung between gains and losses at least 10 times.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index retreated 0.7 percent,
while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index added 0.5 percent at the
close, after rising as much as 1.4 percent and falling as much
as 1.8 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.9
percent today, having swung between a gain of as much as 1
percent and a decline of as much as 1 percent earlier. In  New
York , the index fell 1.5 percent on Aug. 19 as the cheapest
price-earnings ratios since 2009 failed to lure investors amid
concern the global economy is weakening.  Companies in the U.S. probably ordered less equipment in
July as concern grew that the U.S. recovery was coming to a
halt, economists said before reports this week.  U.S. Durable Orders  Bookings for durable goods excluding transportation fell
0.5 percent after rising 0.4 percent in June, according to the
median forecast of 38 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
ahead of Commerce Department figures Aug. 24. Two days later,
data from the same agency may show the economy grew even less in
the second quarter than previously estimated.  Quanta Computer Inc. (2382) , the world’s largest maker of laptop
computers by sales, slid 2.6 percent to NT$53.5 in Taipei.  Sony
Corp. (6758) , the maker of Bravia televisions and PlayStation game
consoles, dropped 1 percent to 1,578 yen in Tokyo. Fanuc Ltd.,
Japan’s No. 1 maker of industrial robots, declined 4.1 percent
to 11,650 yen.  Japanese exporters dropped after the yen touched a post
World War II record high of 75.95 per dollar on Aug. 19. The yen
fell to 76.73 per dollar today from 76.55 after Japanese Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said the government will take decisive
action if needed in foreign-exchange markets as he has become
“more concerned” about the currency’s appreciation. A stronger
yen reduces the outlook for the nation’s exporters when their
overseas income is repatriated.  Merkel Bond Resistance  Toyota Motor sank 2.5 percent to 2,700 yen in Tokyo. Nissan
Motor Co., the Japanese carmaker that counts  North America  as
its biggest market, lost 4.1 percent to 626 yen. Honda Motor
Co., which gets about 83 percent of sales outside of Japan, slid
2.5 percent to 2,342 yen.  Concern about Europe’s sovereign debt crisis also grew
after German chancellor Angela Merkel said she’ll resist
pressure to back common euro-area bonds as a means to solve the
region’s debt crisis. Investor calls for euro bonds intensified
last week as European stocks fell to their lowest level in more
than two years.  In Sydney, BlueScope Steel slumped 5.7 percent to 74.5
Australian cents after posting a loss of A$999 million ($1.04
billion) in the second half, compared with a net income of A$154
million a year earlier. The company said it will stop exports
and shut a mill and a furnace, cutting about 1,000 jobs.  Earnings Surprises  Of the 556 companies in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
that reported net income since July 11, about 45 percent
surpassed estimates, while 32 percent fell short, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re at a point where the alarm bells are sounding,”
said Nick Maroutsos, a Sydney-based money manager who oversees
the equivalent of about $4 billion at Kapstream Capital, said in
a Bloomberg Television interview. “There needs to be put a stop
gap in the market, so that people can have some sort of
confidence that the Fed officials, as well as government
officials, are standing by their side to help them through
this.”  Central bankers from around the world will meet this week
in  Jackson Hole  at an annual conference sponsored by the  Federal
Reserve  Bank of  Kansas City . Bernanke triggered a market rally
last year at the Wyoming resort when he said the Fed was
prepared to “do all that it can” to ensure an economic
recovery and suggested it would buy more securities if growth
slowed.  ‘Bouncing Along Bottom’  The U.S. Federal Reserve hasn’t given up supporting the
economy by printing money and buying more Treasuries,  Mark
Mobius , executive chairman of Templeton Asset’s emerging markets
group, said in a telephone interview with Bloomberg Television
today. “At this point, I do think we’re bouncing along the
bottom,” Mobius, who helps manage about $50 billion, said.  Energy companies declined after Brent oil fell in  London ,
narrowing its record premium to U.S. futures, as investors bet
that Libyan production may recover after rebels entered the
capital Tripoli in a push to force out leader Muammar Qaddafi.  Inpex declined 3.9 percent to 456,500 yen in Tokyo.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas
producer, lost 1.1 percent to A$34.53 in Sydney.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 13 percent this year
through Aug. 19, compared with an 11 percent drop by the  S&P 500 
and a 19 percent decline by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark were valued at 12 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 11.3 times for the S&P 500
and 9.2 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  