-- 
Audi Defies Market Slump With 57% Boost in A8 Production

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-08-22T22:01:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/audi-boosts-a8-production-57-.html
Audi AG is hiring staff to increase
car production, including a 57 percent capacity boost for the
69,600-euro ($101,400) A8 flagship sedan, on expectations that
the luxury-auto industry will weather the stock-market slump.  “We’re extremely busy at the moment and have every reason
to believe this uptrend will continue for some time, certainly
through next year,” Albrecht Reimold, head of the carmaker’s
factory in Neckarsulm, Germany, said in a telephone interview.  Audi’s second-biggest plant, where its 111,100-euro R8
sports car and the 48,900-euro A7 four-door coupe are built, is
running extra shifts after adding about 500 workers this year,
said Reimold. He expects output to jump 21 percent to a record
260,000 vehicles in 2011.  The busy assembly lines at the plant in southwest Germany
are part of broader expansion at the  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  unit, which
is adding capacity in  Spain  and boosting production in China.
Audi,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz
are adding shifts, shortening breaks and building new factories,
even after economic gloom caused the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index to
tumble 23 percent from its February peak.  “We’re aware of expectations that conditions may change to
the worse, but we trust our own forecasts suggesting that things
will stay good,” Reimold said in the Aug. 17 interview from the
plant, which employs 14,000 people.  Targeting Records  BMW, Audi and Mercedes, the world’s three largest makers of
upscale cars, are targeting record deliveries this year, boosted
by growing wealth in  China  and a rebound in spending in the U.S.
after the recession.  Still, with U.S. consumer confidence slumping to its lowest
level since the 2009 recession and Europe saddled with a
government debt crisis, even high-end auto manufacturers will
feel the bite of a slowdown eventually, said Marcus Kappler,
deputy head of economic analysis at the ZEW Center for European
Economic Research in  Mannheim , Germany.  “BMW and other German high-end manufacturers are bucking
the economy’s stagnant trend” for now, said Kappler. “Over the
longer term, German carmakers won’t be able to decouple
themselves from an economy that’s clearly normalizing.”  The slowing economy could hit demand for high-end models
next year, said Henner Lehne, a Frankfurt-based analyst at
research firm IHS Automotive. The research company may lower its
forecast for western European luxury-car deliveries in 2012 from
its current prediction of a 6.4 percent gain to account for the
“new economic realities,” he said.  Not Immune  “Customers are becoming more cautious,” said Lehne.
“Big-ticket items sell less well in difficult times.”  IHS already reduced its projection for U.S. auto demand
this year by 200,000 light vehicles to 12.5 million cars and
trucks. It also lowered its forecast for 2011 German passenger-
car sales by 25,000 vehicles to 3.24 million.  Next year could be tougher. Slowing economies, volatile
financial markets and austerity policies to fight debt may cause
world auto markets to stagnate in 2012, said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for Automotive Research at
the  University of Duisburg-Essen .  “This unfavorable constellation may bring about a distinct
cooling of world car markets,” Dudenhoeffer said, adding
automakers face excess capacities and shrinking profits after
expanding production and hiring this year.  A slowdown may not hit luxury-car makers as hard because
their customers have money to spend even during a downturn,
IHS’s Lehne said.  BMW Expansion  For its part, BMW isn’t currently experiencing a slowdown
and is expanding capacity to fend off Audi, which aims to topple
the Munich-based manufacturer as the luxury-car leader by 2015.  “The demand for vehicles is still very high,” said Jochen Frey, a spokesman for the maker of BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce
vehicles.  BMW shortened the summer break at its Munich factory, home
of the 3-Series sedan and wagon, and will run component
factories in  Austria , the U.K. and  Germany  without a halt, he
said. The manufacturer is adding additional capacity in  South
Carolina  and may build an assembly facility in  Brazil  after
production bottlenecks restrained growth in the first half,
Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said Aug. 2.  Mercedes is also boosting output. The carmaker added
Saturday shifts and extended production hours at its largest
factory in Sindelfingen, Germany, to meet demand for C-, E- and
S-Class models. Its factory in  South Africa  is producing on
Saturdays this month to boost production of the C-Class, which
was updated earlier this year. The carmaker is also building a
plant in  Hungary  to produce a new line of small cars.  Plant ‘Buzzing’  Audi is adding 1,200 technicians, engineers, and other
skilled workers this year to bolster its challenge to BMW. The
unit, which accounts for more than 40 percent of VW’s profit,
suspended summer holidays at its main factory in Ingolstadt to
maintain output of the Q5 sport-utility vehicle. It also
extended around-the-clock production of the Q7 SUV at a plant in
Bratislava, Slovakia, until the end of the year.  At the Neckarsulm plant, a third shift for the A8 was added
in July, taking daily production to 180 vehicles from 115. The
plant is also being refitted to ramp up production of sporty
“S” variants of the A6, A7 and A8 models, which will hit
showrooms next year. The plant is due to produce 300,000
vehicles in 2012, up from 260,000 this year and 180,000 in 2009,
when the financial crisis hit sales.  “The plant is buzzing,” said Reimold. “There’s no
respite even though we’re in difficult times.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  