-- 
Avoid Securitized-Debt Risk on Chance of 2008 Repeat, Bank of America Says

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-08-22T17:37:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/avoid-securitized-debt-risk-on-chance-of-2008-repeat-bank-of-america-says.html
Investors should avoid taking risk
in all categories of U.S. securitized debt because American and
European policy makers may damage financial markets as they
respond to a slowing economy and government deficits, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts.  “Rather than a repeat of 2010, when the Fed saved the day
with QE2, we think we are moving closer to a repeat of 2008,
when major policy errors devastated the economy,” the analysts
led by  Chris Flanagan  wrote in an Aug. 19 report. “The pressure
to ‘do something’ is now far more likely to result in more
desperate or radical measures, even if it is bad policy.”  Credit markets have been roiled by concern that the U.S.
may slip back into recession and that  Europe  can’t contain its
sovereign-debt crisis. The cost of protecting U.S. corporate
bonds from default rose today to the highest in more than 14
months even amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will unveil
further measures to support the economy. At an annual symposium
this time last year, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  hinted the Fed
might embark on a second round of asset purchases, called
quantitative easing, or QE2.  Flanagan, who heads Bank of America’s securitized-debt
research, recommended in an Aug. 12 report that investors
“overweight” government-backed mortgage debt and certain
commercial-mortgage bonds, as well as fixed-rate prime-jumbo and
so-called option adjustable-rate home-loan securities. That was
in response to the Fed’s Aug. 9 pledge to hold its benchmark for
short-term  interest rates  as low as zero until mid-2013.  Stock Losses  Yields on most of those securities relative to benchmark
rates widened last week as stocks extended losses to reach the
biggest four-week decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
since 2009, according to the Aug. 19 report.  Further negative economic data, including a 9 percent
weekly fall in applications for loans to purchase homes, helped
the analysts “turn more negative and see little reason to have
anything but a market weight exposure to securitized products,”
according to the Aug. 19 report by Flanagan and Jimmy Nguyen,
who are based in New York. That’s “in spite of the attractive”
valuations, they wrote.  Flanagan, who began this year overweight all categories of
securities backed by loans and leases in part because of their
falling supply, didn’t return a telephone message left today.  Refinancing Rules  The “most obvious immediate candidate” for U.S. policy
makers looking to stoke the economy would be a loosening of
refinancing rules for loans backed by government-supported
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the analysts said. They recommended
paring back on investments in interest-only, or IO, slices of
mortgage bonds, which had been among their top recommended
trades all year based on an expectation of limited refinancing.  So-called option-adjusted spreads, which take into account
prepayment uncertainty, on some IOs now average about 4.3
percent, compared with 8.4 percent at the start of the year and
as low as 2.9 percent in June, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Trust IO Agency CMO Index.  Buyers of government-backed mortgage securities “have been
reducing risk amidst the recent turmoil” and “higher
volatility will likely continue to weigh on investors’ risk
appetite,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts wrote in an Aug. 19
report.  Price Slump  Twenty-six percent of investors are now underweight the
bonds, or holding less than found in benchmark indexes, compared
with 9 percent in July, according to a survey by the analysts.
Money managers are reducing their holdings, even as 92 percent
of them agree with the New York-based company’s analysts led by
Matt Jozoff that “a large-scale government-sponsored refi wave
will be difficult to implement.”  A slump in prices for “distressed” floating-rate home-
loan securities without government backing has been too small to
“pique” interest in the debt among 60 percent of investors
surveyed.  The bank’s non-agency mortgage-bond analysts led by  John Sim  recommended “legging” into securities such as those backed
by subprime mortgages.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1.2 basis points to a
mid-price of 123.9 basis points as of 1:14 p.m. in New York,
according to Markit Group Ltd. That’s the highest since June
2010.  ABX Index  Projected yield spreads on so-called mezzanine commercial-
mortgage bonds that were originally rated AAA rose 10 basis
points last week to 595 basis points, or 130 basis points higher
than July 1, according to the Bank of America report. Prime-
jumbo home-loan securities climbed 5 basis points to 490 basis
points, up by 65 basis points from July 1, according to the
report.  A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  A Markit ABX index of credit-default swaps tied to
subprime-mortgage bonds rated AAA when issued in 2006 fell last
week to 47.4, less than 1 point from the 18-month low reached
June 24 and down from as high as almost 55 in July, according to
Markit. The index, whose levels signal that investors may pay
similar amounts in cents on the dollar for comparable bonds, has
fallen from a 30-month high of 62.7 in February.  Bank of America’s Flanagan said in a report the day that
the index reached its recent low that it represented a “bottom
for ABX prices as well as “risky assets” in general because
home-price declines were set to slow.  Subprime-mortgage notes from 2005, 2006 and 2007 have lost
4.6 percent this month, Barclays Capital index data show.
Commercial-mortgage bonds fell 1.7 percent on average and
government-backed home-loan securities gained 1.57 percent,
underperforming similar-duration Treasuries by 104 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 