-- 
Law Firms Profits Per Partner May Be Overstated 20%, WSJ Reports

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-22T14:04:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/law-firms-profits-per-partner-may-be-overstated-20-wsj-reports.html
More than half of the top 50 U.S.
law firms may have overstated their profits per partner, the
Wall Street Journal reported, citing an industry analysis
prepared by a unit of Citigroup Inc.  About 22 percent of the top firms overstated the measure by
more than 20 percent last year, the newspaper reported today,
citing an unidentified person briefed on the analysis by Citi
Private Bank  Law Firm  Group. Citigroup disclosed the findings
earlier this month in a meeting with law firm managing partners
and chairmen in Armonk,  New York , the paper said.  American Lawyer magazine ranks profits per partner annually
in May. The measure, which divides net operating income by the
number of equity partners at a firm, is the most commonly used
gauge to determine the health of the $100 billion global
corporate law firm industry, the newspaper reported.  American Lawyer, which is published by ALM Media Properties
LLC, reported in May that profits per partner at the 100 largest
law firms rose 8.4 percent to an average of about $1.4 million
last year, the newspaper reported. Citigroup’s analysis found
that 16 percent of the firms overstated their numbers by
10 percent to 20 percent, it said. An additional 15 percent of
the firms had figures that were inflated by 5 percent to 10
percent, the Journal said.  Robin Sparkman, American Lawyer’s editor in chief, said the
magazine stands behind its published ranking and report.  “Like all good journalists, we are eager to correct errors
when we get better data, which we have not yet seen from Citi,”
Sparkman said by e-mail. “We ask only to be judged on what we
report, rather than on second- and third-hand accounts about
figures that none of us can independently confirm.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 