-- 
Baby Boomers May Hold Down Stocks for Decades, Fed Paper Says

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-08-22T20:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/baby-boomers-selling-shares-may-depress-stocks-for-decades-fed-paper-says.html
Aging baby boomers may hold down
U.S. stock values for the next two decades as they sell their
investments to finance retirement, according to researchers from
the  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco .  Americans born between 1946 and 1964 are beginning to
retire as the U.S. stock market is still recovering from the
financial crisis that began in 2007 with the collapse of the
subprime-mortgage market. The timing is “disconcerting” and,
since stock prices have been closely tied to demographic trends
in the past half century, “portends poorly for equity values,”
adviser Zheng Liu and researcher Mark Spiegel wrote in a paper
released by the bank today.  The equity-price-to-earnings ratio of U.S. stocks tripled
from 1981 to 2000 as baby boomers reached their peak working
ages, and has declined since then, according to Spiegel and Liu.
Overseas investors’ demand for U.S. stocks might help mitigate
the effect of a  baby-boomers ’ sell-off, yet the impact would
probably be limited, they said.  “For many primary purchasers of U.S. equities outside the
U.S., their demographics are even worse than ours, in particular
 Europe  and  Japan , which have older age profiles prevailing than
the U.S. does,” Spiegel, vice president of the bank’s research
department, said in a telephone interview today.  At the same time, foreign investors, including sovereign
wealth funds, may decide to hold a larger share of U.S.
equities, Liu and Spiegel said. Also, emerging market countries
such as  China  may ease capital controls, allowing their citizens
to invest in U.S. equities, they said.  No Hard Rule  “We’re well aware that a lot of other things can happen”
that would buffer the impact from retiring baby boomers, said
Spiegel, 50. “There’s not necessarily a rule that this is the
only thing that’s going to drive prices going forward.”  Still, “we do see it as something of a headwind as the
economy is attempting to recover,” he said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has dropped about 28
percent since October 2007, and declined almost 11 percent this
year. The index rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,123.82 at the 4
p.m. close today in  New York .  Jeremy Siegel , 65, a finance professor at the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School in Philadelphia, has also
researched the link between demographics and U.S. stocks. He
said that growth in developing countries should generate enough
demand to absorb a baby-boomer selloff and “keep stock prices
high.”  As long as the economies of countries like China and  India 
expand at an annual rate of at least 4 percent to 6 percent,
investors “will have the resources to buy our stocks” and
“keep our stock market fully valued into the future,” Siegel,
author of the 1994 book “Stocks for the Long Run,” said in a
telephone interview today.  “If we don’t get growth abroad and block foreign countries
from buying U.S. companies, the outlook for U.S. stocks is much
worse,” Siegel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  