-- 
Balanced Budget Acts as Dumb in Europe as in U.S.: Noah Feldman

-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-22T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/balanced-budget-acts-as-dumb-in-europe-as-in-u-s-noah-feldman.html
If you think balanced-budget
amendments are the stuff of madmen or dreamers, you were in for
a surprise this month.  No, not the requirement of the U.S. debt-ceiling agreement
that Congress vote up or down on such an amendment -- everyone
knows that proposal will be dead on arrival. Rather, it was the
joint recommendation of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  that all 17 euro-area members
adopt constitutional amendments by next summer that would
require balanced budgets by specific target dates.  In the context of the world’s current economic troubles,
how could responsible, economically sophisticated leaders think
it is a good idea to impose an inflexible constitutional debt
ceiling? Merkel and Sarkozy are, after all, a far cry from  Rick Perry .  What makes mainstream politicians imagine that sovereign
states would be helped, not harmed, by taking away their option
to borrow and spend their way out of a fiscal crisis?  The answer lies in a naive but widespread understanding of
how successful constitutions actually operate. The textbooks say
that a constitution binds the government in advance so that in
the future it will not do something tempting but foolish -- the
way Odysseus bound himself to the mast when he knew the sirens
would be seducing him. The idea is that a prior commitment will
legally prevent later backsliding.  Not a Straitjacket  But the reality is much more complicated. Most
constitutional provisions are written with loopholes, either
explicit or implicit. A constitution almost never successfully
binds the government from doing what it believes it must do to
survive. A creative interpretation of the document can generally
be found sufficient to enable the government to do what it
wants.  Merkel and Sarkozy are well aware of this, so what are they
after? First, they want to convince bond markets that poor euro-
area members will not drag down the whole system by running up
large deficits and then relying on France and Germany to bail
them out. They aspire to use constitutions to convey this
promise.  If the euro-area members really gave up the sovereign power
of deficit spending, they would become much more like the
American states. Except for  Vermont , all states have balanced-
budget amendments or something similar. But the states of the
union were not giving up very much when they adopted these
amendments. They have never been truly sovereign (not even
during the Civil War, when the seceding states immediately
formed the Confederacy). They haven’t issued their own
currencies in the modern era, and their ability to borrow in the
markets is sharply constrained.  This is the model Germany and France are, at the moment,
eagerly projecting in their calls for closer economic and
political integration within the euro region. Individual
constitutional amendments on balanced budgets -- assuming they
could really be passed -- would mark the willingness of the
members to give up still more of their sovereign control over
their economies.  What they would not create, however, is a legal-fiscal
straitjacket.  Germany  is the only euro-area country that already
has a constitutional provision governing deficits -- and sure
enough, it contains an exception big enough to drive a truck
through. Adopted in 2009, Germany’s “golden rule” or “debt
brake” requires that by 2016, the federal deficit not exceed
0.35 percent of gross domestic product. But the same  provision 
says that the government “may introduce rules intended to take
into account … the effects of market developments that deviate
from normal conditions.”  Loopholes All Around  If the German government wanted to escape the confines of
its balanced-budget provision, it could easily claim that
markets were acting abnormally. Given that Germany is the leader
in pressing balanced-budget amendments on the other euro-area
members, it is essentially guaranteed that other amendments
would contain similar loopholes.  Then there is the problem of getting amendments passed at
all. Sarkozy got a golden rule proposal through the first stages
of approval in  France  by relying on his party’s support. But the
opposition Socialists are firmly opposed and have the numbers to
scuttle the law. Yes, one of the two leading advocates for euro-
area-wide balanced-budget amendments is in the embarrassing
situation of being unable to pass one at home.  Various European countries have different rules for
amendments. But in many of them,  observers note , there would be
a major parliamentary fight before any such provision could be
adopted. Approving a constitutional amendment is by definition
harder than passing ordinary legislation.  Perhaps Merkel and Sarkozy believe the short-term benefits
of proposing such amendments outweigh the medium-term costs if
European parliaments turn out to have a hard time passing them.
But if history is any guide, getting all the euro-area members
to do the same thing at the same time is a tall order. There are
bound to be holdouts and requests for special accommodations.  At most, then, any balanced-budget amendments that are
adopted will do nothing more than memorialize agreement among
political elites about what they believed to be in their mutual
interests at the moment of enactment. It would be telling the
markets: “We will try to do things this way. And if we change
our minds, we will incur some political costs in publicly
changing them.”  One suspects that the markets would understand the limited
value of such promises. There is no reason to expect political
leaders in Greece or  Portugal  -- or really anywhere -- would
adhere to budget promises should it become clear that doing so
will end their careers.  There is nothing exceptional about this. Constitutional
commitments are only convincing when they credibly correspond to
elite interests over the long haul. If they don’t, then they
become what  James Madison  called “parchment promises” -- not
worth the sheepskin they are printed on.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University , is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah.feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 