-- 
Bank Debt Risk Surges to Record After Merkel Rejects Euro Bond

-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 
2011-08-22T14:26:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/bank-debt-risk-surges-to-record-after-merkel-rejects-euro-bond.html
The cost of insuring European bank
debt surged after German Chancellor Angela Merkel rejected a
common euro-area bond, stoking concern the region’s deficit
crisis will worsen.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
linked to the senior debt of 25 banks and insurers climbed seven
basis points to 242, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 3 p.m.
in  London , after earlier reaching an all-time high 248.5 based
on closing prices.The subordinated index jumped 21 to 430.  Swaps on sovereign debt rose for a fifth day after Merkel
said joint euro bonds would require European Union treaty
changes that would “take years” and might run afoul of the
Germany constitution. Investor calls for euro bonds intensified
last week as concerns about the ability of nations to fund
themselves and a stuttering global economy drove stocks to their
lowest in more than two years.  “The European debt crisis could go very badly wrong, and
even if it does not, investors’ anxiety that it might could
create tensions in global banking systems that further undermine
the world economy,” Barclays Capital’s New York-based
strategist Michael Gavin wrote in a note.  The Markit SovX Western Europe Index of swaps linked to the
debt of 15 governments widened 3 basis points to 292 basis
points.  The cost of insuring company bonds also rose, with the
Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 40
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings up 5 basis
points to 675. The Markit iTraxx Europe index of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings widened 4 basis points to 160
basis points.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($14.4 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 Hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  