-- 
Bank of America Unit Settles San Francisco Arbitration Suit for $5 Million

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-08-22T19:41:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/bank-of-america-unit-settles-san-francisco-arbitration-suit-for-5-million.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s credit card
unit agreed to pay $5 million and suspend arbitrations of
consumer debt collections in California for two years to settle
San Francisco’s lawsuit over its collection practices.  The agreement, filed today in state court in San Francisco,
resolved a 2008 lawsuit alleging that Bank of America’s FIA Card
Services unit used an arbitration service that was biased in
favor of the bank and against consumers. The  National
Arbitration Forum Inc. , based in  Minneapolis , employed unfair
business practices while administering arbitrations for consumer
who owed credit-card debt to the unit, according to the lawsuit.  FIA agreed not to use the mediation service in arbitrations
for five years or enforce unconfirmed arbitration awards
obtained through the company, said  San Francisco  City Attorney
Dennis Herrera in an e-mailed statement. FIA is prohibited from
barring consumers from suing the company as a group, according
to the statement.  “Both sides agreed to the settlement to avoid the costs
and uncertainty of further legal action,”  Shirley Norton , a
Bank of America spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Bank of America denies any wrongdoing, Norton said. The
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company discontinued mandatory
arbitration for consumer credit card disputes in August 2009 and
hasn’t used National Arbitration Forum since then, she said.  The bank, the largest U.S. lender, also eliminated
mandatory arbitration and requirements barring group lawsuits
from consumer and small business credit card agreements, Norton
said.  Mark Fellows, a spokesman for National Arbitration Forum,
didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  The case is People of State of  California  v. National
Arbitration Forum, 473569, California Superior Court, County of
San Francisco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  