-- 
BofA Sinks on China Construction Stake

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-08-22T20:40:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/bank-of-america-drops-most-in-s-p-500-on-status-of-china-construction-sale.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  led decliners
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index after China Construction Bank
Corp. said the U.S. lender will keep at least half its stake,
spurring new debate on the American firm’s capital plans.  Bank of America slipped 55 cents, or 7.9 percent, to $6.42
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
lowest since March 2009. The lender, the biggest in the U.S.,
agreed to retain at least half its 10 percent holding, China
Construction President Zhang Jianguo told reporters in Hong
Kong. Some analysts, including Charles Peabody of Portales
Partners LLC, had estimated the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
bank would divest all of its shares.  “People like me thought they were going to unload the
whole thing to help build their capital,” Peabody said in an
interview. “It means the process of getting to their Basel 3
capital goals could be more elongated, or that they will be more
dependent upon increasing their disposition of non-core
assets.” The latter could further pinch revenue, he said.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
51, has been selling businesses and assets as the firm seeks to
comply with new international capital standards set by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision . Last week the company
announced it was exiting credit-card markets outside the U.S.,
and Moynihan said the lender will continue to pursue such sales.  Sliding Stock  Moynihan’s company has lost 52 percent of its market value
this year, the worst showing in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , as costs tied to the 2008 acquisition of subprime
lender Countrywide Financial Corp. weighed on capital and
sparked speculation that the firm would have to issue new stock.
He has repeatedly said a share sale isn’t needed and that he can
divest non-core assets to meet capital standards.  Bank of America owned 25.6 billion shares valued at $19.6
billion as of June 30, the lender said in an August filing.  China Construction, the world’s second-largest lender by
market value, said it’s discussing a strategic cooperation
agreement with Bank of America after extending an existing
accord to the end of 2012.  The lenders may work together on retail and corporate
operations, as well as wealth management and investment banking,
the bank told reporters in  Hong Kong  today. A separate agreement
that bars Bank of America from selling most of its stake is set
to expire Aug. 29.  “Bank of America will be a long-term strategic partner and
a major shareholder,” Chairman Guo Shuqing told reporters in
Beijing today. The U.S. lender has improved its capital adequacy
ratio and will overcome other difficulties, he said.  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman, said the bank
doesn’t comment on the stock price. As for China Construction,
the two banks have a long-term strategic partnership, Dubrowski
said via e-mail. “We look forward to expanding and extending
that relationship, which has been very positive for both
companies,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  