-- 
Bawdy, Boozy Magician College Trains Potteresque Hero: Review

-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 
2011-08-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/bawdy-boozy-magician-college-trains-potteresque-hero-review.html
In “ The Magicians ,” novelist Lev
Grossman met the challenge of creating an original coming-of-age
adventure by unapologetically recycling the work of C.S. Lewis
and  J.K. Rowling .  In “ The Magician King ,” Grossman has set himself the task
of building a sequel that exploits much of the same source
material while finding new ways to surprise and delight the
reader. Again, he succeeds -- and surpasses the earlier effort.  Here Be Spoilers: In Grossman’s first volume, Quentin
Coldwater, a tormented teenage genius from  Brooklyn , is
recruited by Brakebills, an upstate New York college for
aspiring wizards. Imagine Hogwarts with liquor and sex; that’s
what  Grossman  did.  After graduating, Quentin and his classmates stumble into
 Fillory , a magical otherworld they know of from a beloved series
of children’s novels. Grossman chronicles the disenchanting
passage into adulthood by highlighting the differences between
the sweet, Narnia-like Fillory Quentin grew up reading about and
the bleak, violent “real” Fillory he finds after college.  “The Magician King” finds Quentin sitting on one of the
four thrones of a redeemed Fillory and itching for adventure in
a magical world of tedious abundance.  “The others had all but given up on trying to make
themselves useful, but Quentin couldn’t quite let it go. Maybe
that was what had been nagging at him, as he stood on the edge
of that meadow in the woods. There must be something real
somewhere out there, but he could never quite seem to get his
hands on it.”  He embarks on a quest whose real purpose only becomes clear
after the search is well under way. Quentin sets sail with a
crew that includes a grumpy cartographer and a thoughtful
talking sloth on a Dawn Treader-like vessel across the eastern
sea of Fillory, only to stumble back into the mundane world of
his childhood. He finds himself on the sidewalk outside his
parents’ house like a prisoner waking up in his cell from a
dream of freedom.  In alternating chapters, Grossman jumps back in time to
tell the story of Julia, Quentin’s childhood friend. While
Quentin was away at  Brakebills , she was fighting obsessively to
obtain the magical education she lost when she flunked the
Brakebills entrance exam.  Julia’s storyline is a welcome addition. Quentin, for all
his brooding annoyance with the real world, usually gets what he
wants and excels at what he tries. Julia’s failure, and her
bitter refusal to accept it, gives “The Magician King” a
texture, pace and tension the first book, with its linear
narrative, lacked.  Enter Dr. Seuss  Grossman’s weakness is his overuse of pop-culture
references. It’s one thing to furnish your world with
recognizable bits of reality; it’s another to cite “The Lorax”
by Dr. Seuss, Disney’s “Fantasia” and the Kansas album “Point
of Know Return” in fewer than 20 pages. That’s not writing,
that’s a Dennis Miller routine.  The author’s magpie literary sourcing is more deft. In the
sequel, he moves beyond “ Harry Potter ” and the Narnia books
into Terry Pratchett’s Discworld series, Alasdair Gray’s
“Lanark” and Arthurian romance, with a little bit of Homer on
the side.  Sometimes he acknowledges his borrowings, sometimes he
doesn’t. But he always transforms them in a crucible of bitter,
often shockingly violent reality that renders them newly
distinctive and makes me eager for a third installment.  “The Magician King” is published by Viking (400 pages,
$26.95). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Andrew Dunn  is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the review:
Andrew Dunn in New York at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  