-- 
Biden Names Mongolia Horse, Cheers Democracy on Way to Tokyo

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-08-22T09:50:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/biden-names-mongolian-horse-lauds-democratic-progress-before-japan-visit.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  took a
detour through Mongolia today en route from  China  to Japan to
show support for the country’s nascent democracy and thank the
government for sending troops to  Afghanistan  and Iraq.  “In the last 20 years, Mongolia has captured the
imagination of the world by its remarkable transition to
democracy,” Biden said after meeting Prime Minister Sukhbaatar Batbold in Ulan Bator. Mongolia is “an emerging leader in a
worldwide democratic movement.”  While the Alaska-sized nation with fewer than 3 million
people has an economy smaller than  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s annual sales of
iPod music players, its location between Russia and China,
untapped mineral wealth and ties to North Korea give it added
importance. Biden said the U.S. was “very proud to be
considered a third neighbor” for the landlocked country.  The trip is “part of a broader policy in Central  Asia  to
try and show that the U.S. has a presence there, that it’s not
merely a Russian or Chinese backyard,” said Jeff Bader, who was
senior director for Asia affairs at the National Security
Council until April and is now a visiting scholar with the John
L. Thornton China Center at the Brookings Institution.  After his remarks, Biden went into a ceremonial ger,
commonly referred to as a yurt, with President Tsakhia Elbegdorj. He later attended a demonstration of traditional
Mongolian sports including wrestling, trying his hand at archery
and naming a horse chosen in his honor “Celtic.”  Diversifying Trade  Mongolia’s transition to democracy took place in 1990 after
seven decades as a Soviet satellite. The collapse of the  Soviet
Union  left the country increasingly dependent on China.  Batbold today said he wants to increase trade with the U.S.
and attract more investments from the country to  Mongolia .  U.S. exports to Mongolia were $164.7 million in the six
months to June, according to the  U.S. Census Bureau , led by
mining and related equipment and vehicles. Imports were $9.1
million. More than 90 percent of Mongolia’s exports go to
Northeast Asia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mongolia is trying to seek a “balance of interests” in
its relations with neighbors like Russia and China and Western
countries, Batbold said in a June 17 interview.  Mongolia’s economy grew 28 percent last year to $6.8
billion in current prices, driven by surging investment in
mining projects to tap demand from China and resource-poor Asian
countries such as Japan and  South Korea . Cupertino, California-
based Apple’s sales of iPods were $8.3 billion.  Coal Output  Coal production in Mongolia doubled last year to become the
nation’s top export earner. St. Louis-based  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) 
was among bidders picked to develop Mongolia’s Tavan Tolgoi
deposit, potentially the world’s largest untapped reserve of
coal used to make steel. The country also has substantial
deposits of other resources, including copper, gold and uranium,
according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak , who was also in Ulan
Bator today, signed an initial agreement with Mongolia to expand
cooperation on developing energy resources, the Korean Ministry
of Knowledge Economy said in an e-mailed statement.  Mongolia was among the first countries to send troops to
the Iraq war and its troops have been deployed in Afghanistan
since 2003. Still, the government also maintains ties with  North
Korea , which Batbold said offers a possible export route to the
Pacific Ocean for the country’s mineral wealth.  North Korea’s Intentions  One possible purpose of the vice president’s trip is to
glean information on North Korea’s intentions, said Elizabeth Economy, director of Asia studies at the Council on Foreign
Relations in  New York .  The U.S. maintains sanctions on North Korea in addition to
United Nations trade restrictions imposed to force the regime of
Kim Jong Il to return to talks over its nuclear weapons
programs. Kim will meet this week with Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  in the Siberian city of Ulan-Ude, about 420 kilometers
(260 miles) from Ulan Bator.  Biden left China this morning and will later head for  Japan 
as the final leg of his three-nation tour of Asia. The vice
president has been repeating a message of reassurance to the
Chinese that their investment in U.S. Treasuries is safe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  