-- 
Biden Says Getting Deal Done on Deficit Reduction Will Be ‘Very Difficult’

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-08-22T16:34:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/biden-says-getting-deal-done-on-deficit-reduction-will-be-very-difficult-.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  said the
special congressional committee charged with finding $1.5
trillion in budget savings has a chance at overcoming “very,
very difficult” odds to reach an agreement by its deadline.  The 12-member panel has “a shot of getting a deal that
would be viewed by  Wall Street , be viewed by everyone, be viewed
by the international community as a significant alteration of a
trajectory of long-term debt,” Biden told reporters traveling
with him to  Japan  on the final leg of a three-nation Asia tour.  Unless the bipartisan committee comes up with a plan to
trim the nation’s long-term deficit by the end of the year, the
law that set its mandate would trigger $1.2 trillion in across-
the-board spending cuts over a decade starting in 2013.  “We still may end up with the trigger being pulled,”
Biden said aboard Air Force Two.  The negotiations on trimming the deficit will be held
against a backdrop of sluggish economic growth and an
 unemployment rate  at 9.1 percent. President  Barack Obama  has
said he wants Congress to pass measures to boost  job creation 
while considering spending cuts and increases in  tax revenue  to
shrink  U.S. debt .  Jobs Plan  Biden said that a payroll tax cut for businesses is “one
of things that’s being considered” as part of the jobs and
growth package Obama plans to introduce after Labor Day. Biden
said that he had “extensive discussions” with Obama about the
plan before he left, without giving details.  He said a payroll tax cut for businesses is “one of the
things that I actually discussed with my Republicans
colleagues” during debt talks during the summer.  Biden also was critical of  Standard & Poor’s , which
downgraded U.S. debt to AA+ from AAA following the months-long
debate on raising the federal debt ceiling, saying the company
is not “best qualified” to make judgments about the U.S.
political dynamics behind the debt deal.  S&P’S decision to downgrade the U.S. credit rating for the
first time was based on a “political judgment call as to
whether or not the parties would or could cooperate” and “in a
generic sense, it’s a little out of their lane,” Biden said.  China’s View  Biden spent the bulk of his trip in China, the biggest
foreign holder of U.S. debt. While in public, Biden made
statements of reassurance about the stability of the  U.S.
economy  and the safety of Treasuries, he said the issue wasn’t a
major focus of his private talks with Chinese leaders.  “There were no probing questions about our economy from
them,” Biden said. He said he “didn’t sense it a bit that they
needed reassurance about our economic stability.”  Biden said Chinese leaders asked, “what’s going on?” not
“assure me now, we’re worried.” He said the Chinese don’t view
the U.S. as a declining economic power.  During meetings in Beijing, Biden and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  both expressed confidence in the U.S. economy, with the
Chinese premier saying its stability “is in the interest of the
whole world.”  Biden said he also pressed the Chinese to allow their
currency to appreciate more.  While the Chinese will “continue to let their currency be
revalued marginally, I don’t think we’re going to see any
substantial change” in the next 12 months, Biden said in the
interview. One of the reasons is that  China  is going through a
transition over the next two years. Vice President Xi Jinping,
who Biden met with several times on the trip, is likely to
replace Chinese President  Hu Jintao  in 2013.  The year 2012 will not be “a year of radical change in
China,” Biden said.  Biden called the fight that broke out between the
Georgetown University basketball team and a Chinese team at
Beijing’s Olympic gymnasium “unfortunate,” though he said it
is “not a big deal.”  “That kind of thing could happen in a game at home and it
wouldn’t have political consequences,” he said.  Biden arrived tonight in Tokyo after a stop in Mongolia.
He’s scheduled to visit the region hardest hit by the earthquake
and tsunami in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Tokyo  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  