-- 
Biggest Sugar Cane-Ethanol Mill May Help Brazil Fight Inflation

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-08-22T19:34:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/biggest-cane-mill-to-help-brazil-fight-inflation-analyst-says.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Brazil ’s
state-controlled oil company, is building the biggest sugar
cane-ethanol plant as the country seeks to stabilize prices for
the renewable fuel and fight inflation, said Salim Morsy, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Petrobras’ biofuels unit and Sao Martinho SA, which own the
Boa Vista mill through their Nova Fronteira Bioenergia SA joint
venture, said they plan to invest 521 million reais ($325
million) to expand production to 700 million liters (185 million
gallons) a year.  That would make the plant in Goias state the biggest in the
world converting sugar cane into fuel, and the expanded
production will help Brazil stockpile ethanol in advance of the
rainy season when mills shut down, Morsy said in an interview
today. Ethanol prices almost doubled between January and April
after supplies ran short, driving up inflation.  “Petrobras’ commitment to invest in expanding the
country’s ethanol production capacity is in line with the
Brazilian government’s policy of addressing transport fuel
supply challenges in the coming years,” he said.  Anhydrous ethanol, which is mixed 25 percent with gasoline,
reached a record high of 2.47 reais a liter on April 15, up from
1.24 reais on Jan. 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ethanol Deficit  Prices will likely jump again during the next rainy season,
which typically starts in December, because ethanol production
capacity has not kept pace with climbing demand, Arnaldo Luiz
Correa, an analyst at Archer Consulting in  Sao Paulo , said in an
interview. He said the country needs to spend about $60 billion
during the next eight years to supply the growing number of
motorists, especially those with flex-fuel cars that can run on
pure ethanol.  “The government will have to do something,” Correa said,
either cutting the 25 percent blending rate or importing more
corn ethanol from the U.S., “neither of which it wants to do.”  Brazil may lower its ethanol blending rate to 18 percent
before the end of the year, Morsy said.  The country consumed 2.8 billion liters of anhydrous
ethanol during the first four months of 2011, according to fuel
regulator Agencia Nacional do Petroleo, Gas Natural e
Biocombustiveis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  