-- 
Bloomberg TV Presents “High Flyers” with Host Haslinda Amin

-- B y  
-- 
2011-08-22T16:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/bloomberg-tv-presents-high-flyers-with-host-haslinda-amin.html

Press Release  New Interview Series Features  Asia ’s Business Movers and Shakers  Hong Kong -- Bloomberg Television, the global 24-hour business
and financial news network, today announced that the new series,
“High Flyers” with host Haslinda Amin, will join the Bloomberg’s
programming line-up in the Asia-Pacific region.  Tune in to
“High Flyers” on Thursday evenings at 6:00pm SIN/HKT with
additional repeats on Saturday and Sunday at 11:00am and 9:30pm
SIN/HK.  Shot on location inside one of  Singapore ’s most visible
attractions, the Singapore Flyer, each episode features host
Haslinda Amin interviewing members of Asia’s business elite from
inside the famed observation wheel.  Amin discusses the
achievements, challenges, passions and the regional and global
ambitions of these prominent Asia-based business leaders. The
first episode of “High Flyers” featured an interview with
Sandiaga Uno, co-founder of Saratoga Capital, one of  Indonesia ’s
largest investment firms.  Additional episodes will feature
Malaysian entrepreneur  Tony Fernandes , Group CEO of the leading
Asian no-frills airline AirAsia and Ho Kwon Ping, founder and
Executive Chairman of Singapore-based business group Banyan Tree
Holdings.  “I’m excited to bring Bloomberg Television’s first Asia-based
business interview series from the iconic Singapore Flyer,” said
Bloomberg Television anchor Haslinda Amin. “We’ll be talking to
some of the most celebrated and innovative business leaders in
the region, using our unique location as a backdrop to engage in
a new kind of dialogue about how business today gets done.”  Bloomberg Television’s “High Flyers” is sponsored by  Australia 
and New Zealand Banking Group Limited (ANZ).  ANZ General
Manager Marketing for Asia Pacific,  Europe  & America Wendy Lim
said, “High Flyers will connect audiences to the insight and
understanding of Asia’s business leaders. These three elements -
connectivity, insight and understanding - are core to ANZ’s
strategy to become a super regional bank and we are delighted to
work with Bloomberg Television to sponsor this series.”  Bloomberg Television, available in over 270 million homes
worldwide, provides continuous coverage of the people, companies
and events that move the markets and shape the business day
ahead.
With hubs in  Hong Kong ,  London  and New York, Bloomberg
Television presents 24-hour coverage of business, political and
world news, as well as evening programming including the
acclaimed “Charlie Rose” talk program.  More than 2,300
reporters located worldwide and in bureaus in  Shanghai , Beijing,
 Tokyo , Sydney and Singapore enable Bloomberg Television to
quickly cover the news as it happens, from where it happens.  For more information on Bloomberg Television, please visit
www.bloomberg.com/tv and follow us on Twitter ( @BloombergTV ) and
 Facebook .  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Jocelyn Austin, +1 212-617-3578,  jbaustin@bloomberg.net   #<728521.6697419.2.1.87.23378.2660>#
 