-- 
BlueScope to Raise Steel Capacity in China 33% to Meet Demand

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-08-22T06:29:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/bluescope-to-raise-steel-capacity-in-china-33-to-meet-demand.html
BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) ,  Australia ’s
largest steelmaker that today reported A$1 billion ($1 billion)
full-year loss, aims to raise output capacity in  China  by 33
percent to tap demand in the world’s biggest consumer.  “We have a business in China that’s going from strength to
strength,” Paul O’Malley, chief executive officer of the
Melbourne-based company, said today in an interview. “We’re
building a new facility in Xi’an so that we can actually
participate in the growth in Western China. I would say over the
next few years we will look to add another facility.”  BlueScope’s China business had underlying earnings of A$50
million in fiscal 2011, compared with losses at the company’s
domestic operations, which totaled A$292 million. The company
plans to spend A$60 million building a new plant at Xi’an,
adding to its 32 sales offices and eight facilities.  China’s steel output will rise 8.3 percent to 728 million
metric tons, metals consultants MEPS International Ltd. forecast
last month. The nation will maintain growth of 7 percent to 9
percent, BHP Billiton Ltd. Chairman Jac Nasser said this month.  BlueScope and smaller rival  OneSteel Ltd. (OST) , which is also
reviewing its domestic steelmaking business, have been battling
a record Australian dollar, higher material costs and lower
steel prices. BlueScope said today it will close its export
business, shut a mill and a furnace as well as shed about 1,000
jobs to curb losses.  “A decision to move back into the export business is
probably a decision for the medium term,” said O’Malley. “It
would only ever occur if the macroeconomic variables in
Australia and the  exchange rate  or the raw material costs were
materially lower and we’re not banking on that happening anytime
soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  