-- 
Bogus Sushi, Fake Dumplings Hit French Trade: A. Craig Copetas

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 
2011-08-22T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/bogus-sushi-fake-dumplings-imperil-french-trade-balance-a-craig-copetas.html
A new  Shangri-La hotel  sits fogged
in putrefied flowers and musty food at the top of a hill
overlooking the Eiffel Tower.  The 80-room chateau was built for the 19th-century explorer
and gastronome Prince Roland Bonaparte. It later became the home
of Baron Philippe de Rothschild and site of probably the most
fashionable private kitchen in Paris.  No longer. Once past the perfumed mist wafting from the
200-milliliter bottles of “Shangri-La Hotels & Resorts Essence
of Shangri-La Reed Diffuser,” another baffling and expensive
episode in Parisian Oriental dining unfolds inside the Hong
Kong-based hotel chain’s Bauhinia restaurant.  Will a 40 euro ($57.54) main course of “authentic”
Malaysian chicken curry, which that country’s authorities
probably would deport, complement a 25 euro Tete de Veau
starter? No. Is it possible that Bauhinia’s 38 euro plate of
Iberian Bellota ham slices, followed by a 29 euro noodles-galore
bowl of syrupy Pad Thai Prawns, might help France draw more
investment capital from  Asia ? That’s doubtful.  Just how does one go about picking apart a parsleyed and
peppercorned French veal head with chopsticks? One doesn’t.  These are just some of the indigestible mysteries gastro-
economists seek to solve in the wake of a French government
study that says only 11 percent of the country’s total $57.4
billion in direct foreign investment came from Asia in 2010.  Meaty Glop  The numbers contained in the  Invest in France Agency  report
are as thin as the spiceless sauce on Bauhinia’s 26 euro Thai
beef salad, a small glop of shredded U.S. meat that foreign
businessmen in Paris say tells the tale of why Asian investment
in  France  has changed little for the past 3 years.  “Food is an incredibly important catalyst for a successful
foreign investment, so IFA’s figures come as no surprise,” says
Amit Kohli, the 40-year-old Mumbai native and a director of
portfolio and alliance management diabetes division at Sanofi
Aventis SA in Paris. “I’ve been here for 11 years and can with
authority tell you that Indian and Asian executives walk off the
plane and say ‘yuck’ to how the French prepare their native
foods.”  In the capital of haute cuisine, Asian food remains mostly
microwaved, mutilated and falling into such desuetude that the
Japanese government has secret sushi agents patrolling the
streets. Inspectors from the  Japanese External Trade
Organization  check out the authenticity of Paris dining spots
that stand to damage the country’s culinary heritage. Only 50 of
the city’s perhaps 1,200 sushi restaurants make the grade.  Chic Secret  “The Asian cuisine of Paris is disgusting and the Indian
food is even worse,” Kohli rues. “It’s the dirty secret of
chic Parisian dining that nobody wants to admit.”  Except at the French  Ministry of Health , whose watchdogs
prowl Asian restaurants for soy sauces that contain the possible
carcinogenic substance propyl chloride and serve up rubbery
Chinese food cooked by illegal immigrants in slum kitchens.
European Union  food police  also remain on red alert for exotic
eastern eateries filling bowls with banned genetically modified
rice and other creepy ingredients.  French Member of Parliament Jacques Myard says diners
should take a long look next time a Paris waiter puts a plate of
Asian dumplings in front of them. “They aren’t real,” is
Myard’s verdict. “Many of these restaurants tried to modify
their food to what they think is French taste. It’s sad.”  Foodie Confidence  Oriental foodie confidence in Paris is at a low. The city’s
Chinese is dowdy and its Thai lacks appeal. The chefs in most
neighborhood Japanese restaurants speak Cantonese. Those seeking
Indonesian food must cross the Belgian frontier and head to the
Netherlands. As for the much lauded Vietnamese woks of Paris,
the third-generation Indochinese chefs responsible would be wise
to invest in a ticket to Hanoi.  Back at the Shangri-La, Bauhinia’s experiments in fusion
are overpriced and tasteless. The 23 euro Yam Som-O shrimp and
peanuts are street legal. The wallpaper is green with painted
birds. The attentive staffers dress in embroidered gold Chinese
formal wear and serve butter in white ceramic tubs. French-food
priestess Julia Child once asked how a nation could be called
great if its bread tasted like Kleenex. Bauhinia’s bread tastes
like coconuts.  Although Chef Philippe Labbe promises that his theme-park
menu of seven Asian and 12 French dishes is “authentic” and
“respects traditional tastes,” the result is mediocre after-
midnight hotel-room service, a requiem for an egg roll.  Shangri-La’s failed French-Asian fusion cooking is a
testament to the ignorance of Asian food in Paris and shows an
inability to match the culinary standard it sets at the hotel
chain’s luxury outposts in Jakarta, Singapore and Mumbai.  La Bauhinia, Shangri-La, 10 Avenue d’Iena, 75116 Paris.
Information:  http://www.shangri-la.com  or +33-1-5367-1998.  (A. Craig Copetas writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
A. Craig Copetas in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 