-- 
Bovespa May Rally Up to 33% by Next Month, Santander Says

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-08-22T19:08:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/bovespa-may-rally-up-to-33-by-next-month-santander-says-1-.html
The Bovespa stock index may gain as
much as 33 percent as soon as next month on prospects that
 Brazil  and the U.S. will avoid a recession, said Marcelo Audi,
the head of equity research for Banco Santander SA’s local unit.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge, which slumped 24 percent
this year through last week, may rise to between 65,000 and
70,000 in the next two months on “attractive valuations” and
indications that the market is “oversold,” Audi told reporters
in  Sao Paulo  today. The measure rose 0.6 percent to 52,756.80 at
2:01 p.m. New York time.  “I’m positive on stocks -- contrary to how we were seeing
things in 2008,” Audi said. Brazil is experiencing “gentle
economic cooling that won’t lead to a recession,” he said.
“Companies in developed countries are not going broke. By
September, October, we could be seeing this relief rally.”  The Bovespa fell into a  bear market  on July 27 amid concern
that the fastest inflation since 2005 will curb Brazil’s
economic growth. The index extended declines this month, joining
the global sell-off on concern the U.S. and  Europe  will fall
back into recession, hurting demand for commodities. The rout
has pushed the Bovespa’s valuation to 8.6 times analysts’
earnings estimates, near the lowest since February 2009,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Aggressive’ Buying  Relative to the Bovespa, investors should stay
“overweight” in Brazil’s real-estate companies and banks as a
stronger real helps to contain inflation and protect consumers’
purchasing power, Audi said. Barring a larger-than-expected
slowdown in economic growth, Audi expects to call for more
“aggressive” buying in consumer stocks in the first half of
next year.  Brazil’s gross domestic product will expand 3.84 percent
this year, down from 7.5 percent in 2010, according to the
median estimate in the weekly central bank survey of about 100
economists published today. Annual inflation, which reached 7.1
percent in the month through mid-August, will end the year at
6.28 percent, the survey indicated. Brazil’s currency has gained
44 percent against the dollar since the end of 2008.  Santander doesn’t expect the central bank to cut the
benchmark Selic interest rate from 12.5 percent this year amid
the global crisis, said Mauricio Molan, the local unit’s chief
economist. Policy makers may lower  reserve requirements , which
were last increased in December, to shore up liquidity should it
prove necessary, he said.  “If a greater liquidity squeeze is felt, the first step
would be to use reserve requirements,” Molan said at the same
press conference. “A cut in the Selic would come to compensate
a larger drop in economic activity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  