-- 
Brazil Hotels Poised for Record Growth in Demand as Middle Class Expands

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-08-22T14:02:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/brazil-hotel-revenue-may-gain-20-this-year-on-expansion-of-middle-class.html
Brazil’s hotels are likely to set a
record for growth in demand this year, spurring international
chains to double their market share in South America’s largest
country within a decade, Jones Lange LaSalle Hotels said.  Brazil’s revenue per available room probably will jump at
least 20 percent this year, according to Ricardo Mader, a Sao
Paulo-based executive vice president at the real estate advisory
firm. Revpar, a measure of occupancy and rates, rose a record 17
percent in 2010, according to a survey of about 400 hotels by
Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels, part of Chicago-based  Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   Demand for hotel rooms in Brazil has been fueled by the
middle class, which has grown to more than 50 percent of the
country’s population for the first time, Mader said. Rising
rates and occupancies have attracted increased interest from
foreign investors and from international hoteliers, which
operate 3.8 percent of Brazil’s hotels, he said.  “Most new projects we’re seeing are by international
chains,” Mader said in a telephone interview. They are likely
to double their market share in Brazil within 10 years, he said.  Room rates in Brazil, measured in U.S. dollars, soared 27
percent during the first half, the biggest increase among South
American countries, according to London-based  STR Global . That
compares with a 3.4 percent increase in  North America . STR
focuses on chain hotels, while the report by Jones Lang LaSalle
Hotels includes many local, independent owners, Mader said.  ‘Unprecedented Uptick’  Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels has been advising private equity
and institutional investors from the U.S.,  Europe  and  Latin
America , as well as funds from the  Middle East  and  Asia , on
expansion in Brazil, Clay Dickinson, an executive vice president
at the firm, said in a statement. There’s been “an
unprecedented uptick in the amount of international investors
evaluating development opportunities in Brazil this year,” he
said.  Host Hotels & Resorts Inc. (HST)  last year bought a 245-room JW
Marriott in Rio de Janeiro, the city that will host the 2016
Olympics. The Bethesda, Maryland-based real estate investment
trust paid about $48 million for the hotel, located near
Copacabana Beach.  Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC) , the New York-based operator of
boutique hotels including the Royalton and Mondrian, plans to
add properties abroad, including in Brazil, Chief Executive
Officer Michael Gross said in May.  Marriott’s 50 Hotels  Marriott International Inc., the largest publicly traded
U.S. hotel chain, said in November it planned to boost its hotel
count in Brazil to 54 from four. The Bethesda, Maryland-based
company plans to develop 50 Fairfield by Marriott hotels
throughout Brazil in a partnership with Rio de Janeiro-based
real estate developer PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes.  An increase in international investments in Brazil,
particularly in the high-end hotel market, will depend on the
availability of funding, according to Mader.  “One thing that still is a big problem is the lack of
financing,” Mader said. “ Brazil  is not a mature market and
commercial banks are still not financing hotels. Once financing
is more available, then we’ll see many more international luxury
hotels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  