-- 
Brent Oil Falls as Libyan Rebels Enter Tripoli; Premium to WTI Shrinks

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-08-22T20:26:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/brent-oil-falls-as-libyan-rebels-enter-tripoli-premium-to-wti-shrinks.html
Brent oil fell in  London , narrowing
its record premium to the main U.S. grade, on speculation that
an end to Muammar Qaddafi’s rule in Libya will lead to a
recovery in the nation’s crude production.  Brent’s premium to West Texas Intermediate, the grade
traded in New York, narrowed the most in five weeks as rebel
fighters entered the capital city of Tripoli. Brent advanced 19
percent in the first six months of 2011 as an armed rebellion
against Qaddafi disrupted Libya’s supplies.  “This is the beginning of the traders getting out of the
long Brent-WTI spread,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior
partner at the Energy Management Institute in New York.  Brent crude  oil for October settlement dropped 26 cents to
$108.36 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange. The contract has climbed 14 percent this year.  Crude oil for September delivery gained $1.86, or 2.3
percent, to settle at $84.12 on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The September contract expired today. Prices have
slumped 7.9 percent this year and are down 27 percent from their
2011 peak on May 2. October futures, the most actively traded
contract, rose $2.01, or 2.4 percent, to $84.42.  Brent, more sensitive to global supply disruptions than WTI
because it’s a benchmark for half of the world’s oil, tumbled as
much as 3.2 percent in intraday trading. Oil traded in New York
rose as Hurricane Irene strengthened in the Atlantic Ocean and
as equities increased.  Brent settled at a $23.94 premium to WTI, down from a
record $26.21 on Aug. 19.  Libyan Production  Libya ’s output dropped to 100,000 barrels a day in July,
down from 1.6 million the nation pumped before the uprising
began in February, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  “Qaddafi hasn’t been found yet but it looks like his rule
is over, which is having a big impact on Brent,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity Futures Inc. in New
York. “The Brent market rose the most when Libyan production
was disrupted, so it makes sense that it would be the weakest
now that it appears to be coming back.”  Libya produces light, sweet crude, or oil with low density
and sulfur content, which can easily be refined into high-value
diesel and other fuels.  Brent Premium  “It’s not surprising that Brent is falling because the
availability of light, sweet crude for European refiners will
increase,” said  Rick Mueller , a principal with ESAI Energy, LLC
in Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “A large part of the increase in
Brent prices this year was due to the Libyan conflict.”  Price declines triggered by the news that the rebels have
entered Tripoli will be tempered because exports won’t resume
immediately, according to Emmanuel Fages, an energy analyst with
Societe Generale SA in Paris.  “We are talking months before anything can happen, maybe
2012,” Fages said.  Hedge funds and other money managers increased bullish bets
on Brent crude by 1.5 percent in the week ended Aug. 16,
according to  data from ICE Futures Europe .  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 49,608
contracts, the London-based exchange said today in its weekly
Commitments of Traders report. Net-long positions rose by 756
contracts, from 48,852 a week earlier.  Commitments of Traders  Hedge funds  and other speculators cut wagers on rising
crude in New York prices by 0.1 percent to 142,769 in the week
ended Aug. 16, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
react if prices continue to slump, Iranian OPEC governor
Mohammad Ali Khatibi said, according to comments on the oil
ministry’s website. Still, he said there’s no need for the
organization to convene an emergency meeting now.  Oil may rise if operations in the  Gulf of Mexico  are
disrupted by this year’s Atlantic storm season, which runs
between June and November. Irene became the first hurricane of
the season, strengthening from a tropical storm as it moved
toward the southeastern Bahamas on a path that could take it to
 South Carolina  by week’s end, the U.S. National Hurricane Center
said.  Irene was about 150 miles (240 kilometers) west-northwest
of  San Juan ,  Puerto Rico , as of 2 p.m. Miami time and moving
west-northwest at 12 mph, according to the center.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent to
1,123.82 at 4:19 p.m. in  New York  and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  gained 0.3 percent to 10,854.65 amid speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will act to stimulate the economy.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 570,559
contracts as of 3:20 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 791,659
contracts Aug. 19, 16 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.47 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Margot Habiby in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  