-- 
Brent Slides as Libyan Rebels Enter Tripoli; Premium to U.S. Crude Narrows

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-08-22T12:45:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/brent-slides-as-libyan-rebels-enter-tripoli-premium-to-u-s-crude-narrows.html
Brent oil fell in  London , narrowing
its record premium to the main U.S. oil grade, as investors bet
that Libyan production may recover after rebels entered the
capital city of Tripoli in a push to force out  Muammar Qaddafi .  The European benchmark contract tumbled more than 3 percent
amid speculation Qaddafi’s regime is crumbling.  Libya ’s output
dropped to 100,000 barrels a day last month, a Bloomberg News
survey showed. That’s less than 10 percent of the 1.6 million
barrels the nation pumped before the uprising started in
February. Prices rose in  New York  as the dollar weakened, making
crude more attractive for protecting against inflation.  “If the rebels continue to gain control as more liquidity
comes into the oil market we could see prices fall more,” said
Torbjoern Kjus, a senior analyst at DnB NOR ASA in Oslo, who
predicts Brent will stabilize at about $100 a barrel. “We have
no idea right now how much the oilfields and infrastructure have
been damaged. But all the incentives are there for western
companies and countries to get production back as quickly as
possible.”  Brent oil for October settlement dropped as much as $3.47
to $105.15 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange, and was at $107.42 at 1:41 p.m. London time. The
contract was at a premium of $23.93 to West Texas Intermediate,
the main U.S. grade, compared with a record $26.21 at settlement
on Aug. 19.  ‘Room to Fall’  Crude for October delivery, the most actively traded
contract on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , gained $1.08 to
$83.49 a barrel in electronic trading. September futures, which
expire today, rose $1.05 to $83.31. They fell 3.7 percent last
week, a fourth weekly decline. Prices have slumped 28 percent
from their 2011 peak on May 2.  “Brent has a lot more room to fall,”  Victor Shum , a
senior principal at Purvin & Gertz Inc. in  Singapore , said in an
interview with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television’s “First
Look” today. “In the near-term, it could fall below $100. If
Qaddafi is gone in a matter of days, expectations are that
Libyan oil flow will resume quite quickly.”  Brent, more sensitive to global supply disruptions than WTI
because it’s a benchmark for half of the world’s oil, advanced
19 percent in the first half of 2011 as an armed rebellion
against Qaddafi disrupted the country’s supplies. Libyan rebels
said they captured two of Qaddafi’s sons as they pushed into
Tripoli yesterday.  Moving Average  Brent is trading below its 200-day moving average,
signaling a breach of technical support, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. This indicator is around $107.90 a barrel
today. Prices tend to extend declines when chart-support levels
are broken.  Hedge funds and other money managers increased bullish bets
on  Brent crude  by 1.5 percent in the week ended Aug. 16,
according to  data from ICE Futures Europe .  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 49,608
contracts, the London-based exchange said today in its weekly
Commitment of Traders report. Net-long positions rose by 756
contracts, from 48,852 a week earlier.  New York futures rose on speculation that further measures
by the U.S. Federal Reserve to stimulate the economy will
support demand for fuel in the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Prices in New York and London have declined for the past
four weeks as debt crises in Europe and the U.S. deterred
investors from holding riskier assets.  Hedge funds  and other
speculators cut wagers on rising crude prices by 0.1 percent to
142,769 in the week ended Aug. 16, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report.  OPEC Action  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
react if prices continue to slump, Iranian OPEC governor
Mohammad Ali Khatibi said, according to comments on the oil
ministry’s website. Still, he said there’s no need currently for
the organization to convene an emergency meeting.  Crude may recover if operations in the  Gulf of Mexico  are
disrupted by this year’s Atlantic storm season, which runs
between June and November.  Hurricane Irene became the first hurricane of the season,
strengthening from a tropical storm as it moves over  Puerto
Rico , the National Hurricane Center in Miami said in a statement
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  