-- 
Bundesbank Says Leaders’ Decisions May Weaken Monetary Union

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-08-22T10:43:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/bundesbank-says-leaders-decisions-may-weaken-monetary-union-1-.html
Germany ’s Bundesbank criticized
European leaders’ handling of the region’s debt crisis, saying
their latest decisions threaten to weaken the euro’s
institutional framework and compromise the inflation-fighting
role of the  European Central Bank .  “By shifting extensive additional risks to the countries
providing assistance and to their taxpayers, the euro area has
taken a major step toward pooling risks arising from unsound
public finances,” the Frankfurt-based Bundesbank said in its
monthly report today. Without a fiscal or political union, the
decisions may put the ECB under greater pressure to run a looser
monetary policy, the Bundesbank said.  On July 21, European leaders agreed on a 109 billion-euro
($156 billion) package of new public aid to stem  Greece ’s debt
crisis and contain a spillover into larger countries such as
Spain and  Italy . The plan empowers the region’s 440-billion euro
rescue fund to buy the debt of distressed euro nations in the
secondary market, aid troubled banks and offer credit lines to
repel speculators. It envisages private bondholders contributing
an additional 50 billion euros.  Risk Transfer  “Overall, the decisions of July 21 threaten to reduce the
consistency of the initially agreed institutional framework of
the currency union,” the Bundesbank said. Fiscal policy is
still determined by national parliaments, “but risks and
burdens are increasingly being dealt with by the community, and
in particular by financially strong states,” it said.  In the absence of a common fiscal policy or political
union, “there’s a danger that the trend toward indebtedness in
euro-area states will increase and that pressure for a looser
common monetary policy will grow,” the Bundesbank said.  The Bundesbank also proposed the inclusion of an automatic
three-year extension clause for European  government bonds , which
would be activated when a country sought aid from the European
Stability Mechanism, a permanent rescue fund due to begin
operation in 2013.  “Three years could be a suitable, concrete period of time
in which to undertake most of the necessary reforms and
consolidation measures,” the Bundesbank said.  A maturity-extension clause would reduce the size of any
bailout that aid-providing countries would have to finance and
ensure risk isn’t fully transferred from investors to taxpayers,
the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Black  in Frabkfurt at r
 jblack25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  