-- 
Buyout Firms Seek Mezzanine Loans as Junk Bond Bridges Get Hung in Turmoil

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-08-22T10:35:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/buyout-firms-seek-mezzanine-loans-as-junk-bond-bridges-get-hung-in-turmoil.html
Buyout firms and their lenders are
turning to mezzanine debt in  Europe  to help refinance $2.7
billion of short-term bridge loans after the sovereign deficit
crisis shut the market for high-yield bonds.  Bain Capital LLC and Hellman & Friedman LLC’s Securitas
Direct AB last week repaid part of a bridge loan to banks with a
394 million-euro ($568 million) mezzanine deal after shelving a
plan to sell high-yield bonds. Banks hired to underwrite 200
million euros of bonds for Coditel Holding SA are discussing
recasting the deal as a mezzanine loan after market turmoil last
month forced the cancellation of the sale of notes.  Borrowers are turning to mezzanine debt, which pays more
than bonds and costs double the interest margin of senior loans
because of its junior ranking, as the crisis saps risk appetite
from insurers and pension funds. Mezzanine funds, accustomed to
getting an average 10 percentage points more than benchmark
rates to fund leveraged buyouts, are less shy of risk.  “There’s certainly enough mezzanine capacity to take out
some of these hung bridges,” said David Wilmot, joint head of
mezzanine and private equity at Babson Capital Europe, which has
about 1.5 billion euros of mezzanine debt under management.  Mezzanine Investment  Mezzanine loans are drawing new cash from Intermediate
Capital Group Plc, which is raising a 2 billion-euro fund and
Park Square Capital LLP’s latest 850 million-euro fund. In
contrast, investors pulled $1.8 billion out of European high-
yield bond funds last week and $10 billion since early June,
according to data compiled by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
research firm EPFR Global.  Sales of  junk bonds  in Europe fell 50 percent since
July to $23.1 billion as yields on speculative-grade debt
climbed to more than 10 percent for the first time in a year on
Aug. 11, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro High- Yield Constrained Index.  “The second Greek bailout, contagion to Italy and  Spain ,
the U.S. debt ceiling debate and S&P downgrade, and weaker
growth data translated into a sustained withdrawal of flows into
high-yield and a secondary market sell-off,” said Edward
Eyerman, the London-based head of European leveraged finance at
 Fitch Ratings . “This happened just as many of the high-yield
refinancing of bridge loans were scheduled to come to market.”  Hung Bridges  Banks provide bridge financing to buyout firms with a view
to being repaid within three to six months. Loans that aren’t
refinanced in that period are termed “hung.”  Malmoe, Sweden-based Securitas Direct, which makes alarm
systems, got bridge financing for its June 24 takeover from
Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs & Co., Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, Nordea Bank AB, Nomura Bank International Plc, HSBC
Holdings Plc, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ed Gascoigne-Pees, an outside spokesman for Bain and
Securitas, declined to comment.  Luxembourg-based Coditel, owned by a group of investors led
by Apax Partners LLP, also has short-term financing in place
from Morgan Stanley, according to two people with knowledge of
the matter. Morgan Stanley spokesman Brian Buckley declined to
comment, as did Apax spokeswoman Agathe Heinrich. Coditel’s
chief executive officer Pascal Dormal didn’t reply to an email
seeking comment.  Com Hem, Spie  Other European deals with outstanding bridge financing
include Com Hem AB, the Swedish cable company BC Partners Ltd.
is acquiring, and Spie, the French construction firm being
bought by a group including Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC and Axa
Private Equity.  Com Hem took on about 7.6 billion kronor ($1.2 billion) of
short-term loans to be refinanced by senior secured notes when
it was acquired in July. The company is looking at the structure
of the Securitas deal, said a person familiar with knowledge of
the matter who declined to be identified as the matter is
private. Bjoern Nilsson, a spokesman for Stockholm-based
Com Hem, didn’t reply to calls seeking comment.  Spie, based near Paris, plans to issue a 375 million-euro
high-yield bond to replace a temporary loan, a person said in
June. HSBC Holdings Plc, Morgan Stanley and Societe Generale SA
are arranging the financing. Clayton Dubilier & Rice and Axa
declined to comment.  “People who extended financing as a bridge loan in this
environment have been running a lot of risk for not very much
return,” said Robin Doumar, managing partner Park Square
Capital LLP, which manages more than $3.5 billion. “It’s a very
good time for mezz and non-bank providers, as not only is the
high-yield market getting tougher, but banks are becoming far
more careful with their balance sheets as they are under
regulatory scrutiny and are selling all sorts of risk assets.”  Incurrence Mezzanine  Securitas’s mezzanine loan was discounted to 97 percent of
face value, with the different made up by the arranging banks,
to make the deal more attractive to investors, a person with
knowledge of the deal said.  The financing was also structured with an “incurrence-
based” covenant package, which dictates the borrower cannot
incur more debt unless a chosen financial ratio is below a
stated level. It’s more commonly used for high-yield bonds and
offers less protection than the customary “maintenance”
restrictions placed on subordinated loans.  “There is a question mark as to how many mezz providers
would be comfortable with incurrence-based covenants as opposed
to the maintenance covenant regimes which are more
commonplace,” Babson’s Wilmot said. “Frankly I don’t think
that the mezzanine market needs to go down the incurrence
covenant route.”  Securitas Direct’s owners will continue with the planned
280 million senior revolving credit facility and 1 billion-euro
senior-secured high-yield bond, a person with direct knowledge
of the deal said. High-yield bonds pay an average 827 basis
points over benchmarks, according to Merrill Lynch data.  The Swedish security company’s mezzanine loan will cost an
interest margin of 10.5 percentage points more than the euro
interbank offered rate, including 6.75 percentage points of pay-
in-kind interest, according to Bloomberg data.  “The fact that the Securitas senior piece remains a bond
bridge provides some comfort that after the summer break the
high yield market may not be closed for more conservative
deals,” said Timothy Polglase, global head of leveraged finance
at Allen & Overy LLP in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 