-- 
Caltex Australia Starts Review of Refineries as Margins Drop

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-08-22T04:57:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/caltex-australia-starts-review-of-refineries-as-margins-drop.html
Caltex Australia Ltd. (CTX) , the nation’s
biggest oil refiner, started a review of its refineries after
reporting first-half profit dropped 24 percent as a record
Australian dollar hurt margins for turning crude into fuel.  “We have initiated a review to understand the role the
refineries will play in maintaining continuity of supply to our
customers,” Julian Segal, chief executive officer of the
Sydney-based company, said today in an earnings presentation,
citing the “challenging environment in which we operate.”  Caltex, half-owned by  San Ramon , California-based  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) , operates the Kurnell refinery in Sydney and the Lytton
refinery in Brisbane.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s largest
oil company, said last month it would halt refining operations
at its Clyde plant in Sydney before mid-2013, saying it was no
longer regionally competitive against Asian “mega-refineries.”  “Despite improvements in the regional supply-demand
balance, the refiner margin continues to be uncertain due to the
continuing strong Australian dollar,” Caltex said.  Caltex rose 1.9 percent to A$10.03 at 1:37 p.m. Sydney time,
compared with a 0.2 percent gain for the S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Operating profit was A$113 million in the six months ended
June 30, compared with A$149 million a year earlier, the company
said in a statement. Caltex said in June it expected profit,
excluding the impact of changes in  oil prices , of between A$100
million to A$115 million.  The oil refiner’s profit, including gains in the value of
inventories, increased 91 percent to A$270 million, Caltex said.
Caltex had expected profit to rose to between A$255 million and
A$275 million on that basis, the company said in June.  Caltex estimated today that the Australian government’s
plan to introduce a price on  carbon emissions  will cost the
company A$5 million to A$10 million in the first year of the
program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 