-- 
Cameron Joins Sarkozy to Urge Qaddafi Departure, Process of Reconciliation

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-08-22T15:43:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/cameron-says-qaddafi-s-libyan-regime-falling-apart-now-in-full-retreat.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  urged  Muammar Qaddafi  to go
as rebels flooded into Tripoli and the Libyan leader’s regime
collapsed.  “Qaddafi must stop fighting, without conditions -- and
clearly show that he has given up any claim to control Libya,”
Cameron said in a  statement  outside his residence in central
London after breaking off a vacation in southwest  England  to
chair a meeting of the National Security Council. “His regime
is falling apart and in full retreat.”  Sarkozy, who spoke today to Mahmoud Jibril, one of the
leaders of the rebels’ National Transitional Council, called on
Libyans to rally behind the “legitimate authorities” in a
“spirit of reconciliation and unity,” according to a statement
released by the Elysee Palace in Paris. The French president
said forces loyal to Qaddafi should lay down their arms and
reject his “cynical and criminal blindness.”  Cameron and Sarkozy led the drive earlier this year to
secure a United Nations Security Council resolution condemning
attacks by Qaddafi’s military on civilians and sanctioning
military action. NATO-led bombing of the Libyan leader’s forces
began on March 19 and will continue “as long as it is needed,”
Cameron told reporters.  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  also urged Qaddafi
to surrender and said his government backs the rebels, according
to an e-mailed statement.  ‘No Complacency’  Cameron, who warned of “difficult days ahead,” said the
U.K. will move to release frozen Libyan assets and assist the
North African country’s opposition in forming a government in
the transition to democracy. Qaddafi, in power for 42 years,
should face justice for his crimes, though what happens to him
is a matter for the Libyan people, the prime minister said.  The British premier said there is still “extremely
fierce” fighting in Tripoli and “there can be no complacency”
over the outcome.  “There will undoubtedly be difficult days ahead,” Cameron
said. “No transition is ever smooth or easy. But today the Arab
spring is a step further away from oppression and dictatorship
and a step closer to freedom and democracy. The Libyan people
are closer to their dream of a better future.”  ‘Avoiding Reprisals’  Cameron spoke by phone later to Mustafa Abdel Jalil,
another leader of the rebel council, and they agreed on “the
need to continue to respect human rights through the transition
process,” the prime minister’s office said in an e-mailed
statement.  In his statement, Cameron said he’d discussed with Jalil
last week the importance of “avoiding reprisals and making sure
all parts of  Libya  can share in the country’s future.”  Foreign Secretary  William Hague  is returning to the U.K. to
coordinate assistance for Libya over the next week and the U.K.
will work in international institutions to smooth Libya’s path
to democracy, Cameron said. Sarkozy invited Jibril to Paris on
Aug. 24.  Cameron spoke to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon to
discuss the role the international body can play in stabilizing
Libya and the action needed to unfreeze the country’s assets,
the prime minister’s spokeswoman, Vickie Sheriff, told reporters
in London.  It’s “unlikely” that U.K. soldiers will be deployed to
Libya, Sheriff said. “We don’t know what extra support the NTC
may require, but it’s not expected that British troops will be
in Libya,” Sheriff said. “That’s never been an aim.”  U.K. military advisers to the rebels will remain in Libya
“for the time being,” she said.  Britain’s NSC will meet again tomorrow to discuss Libya and
Cameron may preside over the meeting, depending on developments.  “He’s looking to return to his family at some point, but
while events are fast-moving he’s in  London  and monitoring the
situation,” Sheriff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  