-- 
Canadian Dollar Trades Within 1 Cent of Parity as U.S. Stocks Erase Gains

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-22T21:23:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/canadian-dollar-rises-as-gain-in-stocks-commodities-buoys-demand-for-risk.html
The Canadian dollar traded within
one cent of parity with the greenback as the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index erased gains to close little changed.  “As equities weakened off this morning, so too did the
Canadian dollar, and since then it really has traded tick for
tick with price action in the stock market,” said Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank of
 Montreal ’s BMO Capital Markets unit, in a telephone interview.
“We continue to gravitate around the 99 cent level.”  Canada’s currency fetched 99.05 cents per U.S. dollar at 5
p.m. in Toronto, compared with 99.01 on Aug. 19. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0096. The loonie earlier today advanced as much
as 0.7 percent. The currency depreciated on Aug. 9 to C$1.0010,
trading weaker than parity for the first time since February.  “It would take a major crisis for the loonie to go through
parity in the short term,” said Jerome Bernier, managing
director of foreign exchange at National Bank Financial Inc. in
Montreal. “We’ve seen a lot of corporate clients use the
rebound in the  U.S. dollar  to sell the greenback at these
levels.”  Yields on 10-year  government bonds  were little changed at
2.3 percent, while the price of the 3.25 percent securities
maturing in June 2021 rose 1 cent to C$108.27. The yields fell
on Aug. 18 to 2.25 percent, the lowest level in Bloomberg data
beginning in 1989.  Retail Sales  Retail sales climbed 0.7 percent in June after a 0.1
percent increase in the previous month, according to the median
forecast of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
tomorrow’s report from  Statistics Canada . Such a gain would be
the largest since a 1.5 percent advance in November.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed after
rallying as much as 2 percent earlier today.  Canada ’s S&P/TSX
Composite Index advanced 0.5 percent after increasing as much as
1.8 percent.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose 2.3
percent to $84.12 a barrel in New York after rallying 2.9
percent earlier. Gold topped $1,900 an ounce for the first time.
Brent oil futures fell in  London  on speculation Libyan
production will recover after rebels entered the capital city of
Tripoli and said Muammar Qaddafi’s rule has ended.  “Libya will be a net negative for the loonie in the long
run because it will take out some of the  risk premium  that’s
built into oil,” said Rahim Madhavji, president of
Knightsbridge Foreign Exchange Inc., in a telephone interview
from Toronto.  Jackson Hole   Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to
speak at a central bank meeting on Aug. 26 in Jackson Hole,
 Wyoming . Some investors are betting he will hint at a third
round of asset purchases known as quantitative easing to
stimulate the economy, according to BMO’s Jespersen.  “It seems the market is paralyzed as it waits for a
potential QE3 on Friday,” said Jespersen. “We’re doubtful that
Mr. Bernanke is going to unveil a QE3, but some in the market
are hopeful.”  The loonie has weakened 5.4 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a gauge of 10
developed-nation currencies. The greenback has fallen 6.1
percent, and the yen has lost 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  