-- 
Canada Boeing 737 Crash Probe Begins as Three Survivors Remain in Hospital

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-08-22T04:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/canada-boeing-737-crash-probe-begins-as-three-survivors-remain-in-hospital.html
Canadian transportation officials
are investigating the causes of a deadly plane crash in a remote
section of the Arctic as the three survivors of the disaster,
including a 7-year-old girl, remained hospitalized.  Hundreds of military personnel in the region for a training
exercise assisted in the rescue efforts after the Boeing 737-200
charter flight operated by First Air went down as it approached
the  Resolute Bay airport  on the afternoon of Aug. 20. Twelve
people died in the crash. The three survivors -- the girl, a 48-
year-old man and 23-year-old woman -- are in stable condition,
the  Royal Canadian Mounted Police  said in a statement.  The plane, coming from Yellowknife,  Northwest Territories ,
lost contact with air controllers about 10 minutes prior to the
crash and five miles from the airport, First Air said. Members
of the Canadian Forces who were on exercises in the area, which
is about 370 miles from the  North Pole  in sparsely populated
tundra, rushed to the scene to assist, Chris Ferris, a spokesman
for the airline, said in a statement.  “We would like to thank the Canadian Military whose on-
site presence and immediate response was instrumental in the
rescue efforts,” he said.  The temperature was about 8 degrees Celsius (46 degrees
Fahrenheit) and skies were cloudy at the time of the crash,
Captain Andrew Hennessy, a military spokesman, said by phone
from Resolute Bay. The Canadian Forces suspended the training
operation and will assist the  Canadian Transportation Safety
Board , the lead investigator on the crash, Hennessy said.  On-Scene Investigators  The board had seven investigators already on the ground as
part of the annual military exercises, and they were sent to the
scene of the crash, spokesman Chris Krepski said. The flight
recorders have been found and will be examined at the board’s
labs in Ottawa, he said.  The crash and the military exercise in the same place were
“sheer coincidence,” Krepski said. “Resolute Bay is a very
remote and isolated area.”  The annual exercise is conducted in the Arctic by about
1,100 army, navy and air force members, according to the
Department of National Defence website.  First Air, an airline collectively owned by 9,000 Inuit of
northern  Quebec , has yet to identify who chartered the flight.
The  RCMP  statement said the names of the dead are being withheld
pending notification of next of kin.  All four crew members were among the dead, First Air said.  Witnesses told the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. that the
plane crashed into a small hill and broke into pieces.  ‘Deeply Saddened’  “I am deeply saddened by news of this tragic plane crash
near Resolute Bay,” Prime Minister Stephen Harper said in a
statement. His office said the prime minister is scheduled to
visit Resolute Bay tomorrow.  Resolute Bay , which sits on the south coast of Cornwallis
Island in  Canada ’s Arctic, was named for HMS Resolute, one of
the ships that went in search of the lost expedition of Sir John
Franklin in 1850, according to the Nunavut tourism Web site. The
community had a population of about 215 in the 2001 census, the
town’s website said.  First Air is a wholly owned unit of Makivik Corp., which
oversees money paid out to Canadian Inuit under land claims
agreements. It operates passenger and cargo flights between 30
communities in the Canadian Arctic and larger cities such as
Ottawa and  Montreal . It has a fleet of about 20 planes,
including four Boeing 737-200, and its aircraft are also used
for mineral and scientific exploration and aerial surveys.  Boeing will assist with the investigation into the crash,
the Chicago-based firm said in an online  statement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Toronto at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  