-- 
Canadian Pro-Labor Opposition Leader Layton Dies After Cancer Battle at 61

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-08-22T18:24:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/canada-s-new-democratic-leader-layton-dies-after-cancer-battle-party-says.html
Jack Layton, the leader of  Canada ’s
largest opposition party, died this morning after a battle with
cancer. He was 61.  “He passed away peacefully at his home surrounded by
family and loved ones,” his wife Olivia Chow said in a
statement e-mailed by the  New Democratic Party .  Layton led his pro-labor  New Democrats  to their best
election result ever this year, winning 103 of  308 seats  in the
House of Commons to replace the Liberals as the country’s
largest opposition party. A surge in popularity for Layton in
 Quebec  propelled the NDP in the May 2 vote, and the party may
struggle to replace him because of his role in shaping the group
that he led since 2003.  “He has played a massive role in Canadian politics and has
shaped the trajectory of the NDP’s success,” said Amanda
Bittner, assistant political science professor at Memorial
University in  St. John’s , Newfoundland.  Layton said last year he was fighting prostate cancer.
While dogged by health questions during this year’s campaign,
Layton touted himself as a “fighter” in his speeches, drawing
cheers by waving the cane he was using in his recovery. He took
a medical leave of absence last month, saying he had a second
type of cancer, which he didn’t specify, and said he expected to
be back at work when Parliament resumes Sept. 19.  Letter to Canadians  “To other Canadians who are on journeys to defeat cancer
and to live their lives, I say this: please don’t be discouraged
that my own journey hasn’t gone as well as I had hoped,” Layton
wrote in a  letter  dated Aug. 20 and released today. “Treatments
and therapies have never been better in the face of this
disease.”  He also told NDP supporters that their “cause is much
bigger than any one leader” and asked them to “demonstrate in
everything we do in the four years before us that we are ready
to serve our beloved Canada as its next government.”  The party should keep Nycole Turmel as an interim leader
and find a permanent chief early next year, Layton wrote in the
letter. Turmel, the former head of the country’s largest public
sector union, took the interim job last month.  “It was his leadership that inspired me, and so many
others, to run for office,” Turmel said in a statement sent by
e-mail. She called on Canadians “to pull together now and carry
on his fight to make this country a better place.”  ‘Force of Personality’  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , whose Conservatives won a
majority of seats in the last election, told reporters in Ottawa
today that “Layton will be remembered for the force of his
personality and his dedication to public life.”  Layton’s success in Quebec, where the New Democrats took 59
of the French-speaking province’s 75 districts, contributed to
the resignations of Bloc Quebecois Leader  Gilles Duceppe  and
Liberal Party Leader  Michael Ignatieff  after the election.  His support jumped in Quebec, and much of the rest of
Canada, after national televised leaders’ debates where he made
the sharpest attacks. Layton said that Ignatieff had one of the
worst attendance records for parliamentary votes, appealed to
young voters by making a reference to Twitter, and curbed the
appeal of the separatist  Bloc Quebecois  by saying he would
expand a controversial French-language workplace law.  The party may struggle to maintain its electoral gains
since it has few well-known members of parliament in Quebec
besides Deputy Leader  Thomas Mulcair , said Robert Asselin,
assistant director of the Graduate School of Public and
International Affairs at the University of Ottawa.  Superior Rapport  “He accomplished what many would say was impossible,”
said Asselin, who was an adviser to Ignatieff during the last
campaign, adding it was “frustrating” to compete against
someone who had a superior rapport with voters.  “People always referred to him as Jack, even people who
didn’t know him -- it was a sign that people were comfortable
with him,” he said. The party “will have a very big challenge
on their hands to keep that success.”  David Jacobson, the U.S. Ambassador to Canada, issued a
statement mourning Layton’s passing.  “I will never forget the image of Jack campaigning as the
happy warrior,” Jacobson said in a message posted on  his
website . “His energy, enthusiasm and passion for politics and
for the Canadian people were undeniable.”  Tributes from Abroad  U.K. Labour Party Leader  Ed Miliband  said in a statement
that “ Jack Layton ’s death is a loss that will be deeply felt by
all of those who believe in progressive politics.” Other
tributes came from the head of the Canadian Medical Association,
as well as the lobby group representing Quebec’s largest
employers.  Funeral details will be announced later, the NDP said in
 its statement  today.  Layton was born in  Montreal  and grew up in the suburb of
Hudson, Quebec. He spent most of his political career in
Toronto, first as a city councilor and later representing one of
the city’s districts in the House of Commons. He held a doctoral
degree in political science from  York University . Layton’s wife,
Chow, is also a member of parliament from Toronto. His father
Robert was a Progressive Conservative cabinet minister under
former Prime Minister Brian Mulroney.  The NDP proposed measures worth C$68.9 billion ($69.6
billion) over four years in the last campaign, compared with the
Conservatives’ C$6.6 billion. Layton opposed Harper’s tax
reductions, valued at C$6 billion annually, for large businesses
and proposed ending subsidies for fossil-fuel exploration and
raising revenue from a cap-and-trade system for carbon.  Layton focused on what he called “kitchen table” issues
such as high credit-card fees and jobless benefits. In an April
interview with Bloomberg News on his campaign jet, he shrugged
off of the “socialist” label his political rivals used for his
party.  “I don’t use labels,” he said. “I say, here’s what we
are going to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 