-- 
Canada Banks May Defy Economic Slowdown With Earnings Growth

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-22T20:21:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/canadian-banks-may-defy-economic-slowdown-with-earnings-growth.html
Canadian banks, ranked the soundest
in the world, may post a fourth-straight quarter of profit
growth as improved credit quality helps offset the economic
slowdown that’s hindered growth at some global lenders.  The country’s eight biggest banks, which begin reporting
results tomorrow, may increase profit by 14 percent before one-
time items, Scotia Capital analyst Kevin Choquette said.  “Our banks’ asset quality is good, the management is good
and I think we’re just in a lucky circumstance,” said David Baskin, president of Toronto-based Baskin Financial Services,
which owns bank shares among its C$400 million ($404.6 million)
in assets. “We just happen to be in the right place at the
right time.”  The profit growth for the period ended July 31 contrasts
with European banks including Royal Bank of  Scotland  and UBS AG,
where profit declined in the most recent quarter. For U.S.
lenders, analysts at Deutsche Bank AG said this month earnings
estimates may need to be slashed by as much as 30 percent if
economic growth slows to 1 percent or less.  Still, a slowdown in the pace of Canadian  job creation  last
month suggests  Canada ’s labor market may be softening, crimping
bank earnings in subsequent quarters. The 10-member S&P/TSX
Banks Index declined 6.7 percent this month as global equities
fell on the concern that the U.S. may slip into recession. Bank
of Nova Scotia plunged 6.7 percent last week, the biggest weekly
decline in more than two years.  Bank Stocks Fell  Six of Canada’s eight largest banks fell today in trading
on the Toronto Stock Exchange, led by a 3.6 percent decline for
 Canadian Western Bank. (CWB)   Bank of Montreal (BMO)  was unchanged at C$57.35
at the 4 p.m. close of trading.  Canadian lenders face “challenges” from a slowdown in
loan growth and increased competition, said Sumit Malhotra, an
analyst at Macquarie Capital Markets in Toronto.  “While it might not be 2008, the fact that the TSX Bank
Index has retrenched” indicates “things are not exactly ideal
for the banks,” Malhotra said in an Aug. 16 note.  Though Canada’s economy probably slowed in the second
quarter, the  Bank of Canada  forecast a rebound in the current
period, as capital spending rises. The world’s ninth-biggest
economy is expected to expand 2.8 percent this year, compared
with 1.8 percent in the U.S., according to Bloomberg estimates.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said Aug. 19 that
economic growth probably slowed in the second quarter, though
strains in the U.S. and  Europe  haven’t changed his fiscal
projections for the year, or his plans to balance the budget by
2014.  ‘Good Financial Positions’  The banks “have very good financial positions,” said  John Kinsey , a  money manager  at Caldwell Securities Ltd. in Toronto,
which manages about C$1 billion, including bank shares.  Credit quality will be relatively strong as provisions for
credit losses decline by an average of 8.6 percent from the
year-earlier, CIBC World Markets analyst Robert Sedran said.  The value of completed takeovers involving a Canadian
company surged 70 percent to $69.6 billion in the quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Equity financings in
Canada rose 32 percent to $10.7 billion in the period, helping
boost investment-banking fees.  Toronto-Dominion,  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  and Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce may announce quarterly dividend increases,
according to Bloomberg Dividend Forecasts, which had a 77
percent accuracy rate in the first quarter. A projected 3.4
percent boost to CIBC would mark the lender’s first increase in
more than three years.  Bank of Montreal  Bank of Montreal, the country’s fourth-largest lender, is
the first bank to release results tomorrow. The Toronto-based
lender may report profit before one-time items of C$1.34 a
share, according to Canaccord Genuity analyst Mario Mendonca.
That would be an 18 percent increase from the year-earlier
period.  National Bank, the sixth-largest lender, reports Aug. 25.
The Montreal-based bank may say profit rose 9 percent to C$1.72
a share, Mendonca said.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the largest bank, may post a 21
percent gain in adjusted profit, which excludes a C$1.6 billion
loss from the sale of its U.S. consumer bank, said Mendonca, who
has an estimate of C$1.05 a share.  Scotiabank, the third-largest bank, may have profit of
C$1.13 a share, up 14 percent, when it releases results Aug. 30.
CIBC, the No. 5 bank, may increase profit by 7.8 percent to
C$1.79 a share when it reports Aug. 31.  Toronto-Dominion may post profit of C$1.60 a share, a 12
percent increase, when it reports Sept. 1, Mendonca said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  