-- 
Cerberus Ends Deal to Buy Innkeepers’ Hotels on ‘Adverse Effect’

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-08-23T01:22:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/cerberus-said-to-end-agreement-to-buy-innkeepers-hotels-for-1-1-billion.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP and
 Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT)  terminated their $1.1 billion agreement to
buy 64 hotels from  Innkeepers USA Trust , a sign that the
weakening economy is straining the private-equity market.  The firms in a statement today cited a possible adverse
change in  Palm Beach , Florida-based Innkeeper’s business as the
reason for backing out of the June transaction, a key element in
the lodging company’s plan to exit bankruptcy. Cerberus and
Chatham didn’t specify what triggered the decision to invoke
what is known as a material adverse effect clause. Innkeepers
said the companies acted “inappropriately,” and it will
evaluate “all legal and equitable remedies.”  Private-equity buyers resorted to so-called MAE clauses in
the depths of the collapse of credit markets in 2007 and
subsequent recession, aborting takeovers of companies including
Canadian phone company BCE Inc., which at the time would have
been the largest leveraged buyout on record. Today, a surge in
borrowing costs, concern that the economy has stalled and
skittish lenders are again threatening deals, including in
cyclical industries such as travel.  “For private-equity investors, and more importantly for
lenders, there’s a basic retrenchment with the thought that
maybe we need to step back a little and slow down major
acquisitions and see whether the economic forecasts are
realistic,” David Loeb, a hotel analyst at Milwaukee-based
Robert W. Baird & Co., said in a telephone interview.  Leveraged Loans  Prices on leveraged loans, the backbone of the buyout
business, have been falling. The move indicates deals may be
more expensive to finance. The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100
Index rose to 88.59 cents on the dollar on Aug. 19 from 88.2 on
Aug. 11, a 13-month low. The debt has lost 3.74 percent this
year.  Cerberus, the New York-based private-equity firm best known
for its takeover of Chrysler, which ended in bankruptcy, has
abandoned deals before. The firm walked away from its $4 billion
agreement to buy Greenwich, Connecticut-based United Rentals
Inc. in 2007. The company unsuccessfully sued Cerberus to
complete the purchase and Cerberus ultimately agreed to pay a
$100 million breakup fee.  “Throughout our restructuring process, Innkeepers has
maintained normal business operations at all of its
properties,” Marc A. Beilinson, Innkeepers’ chief restructuring
officer, said in a statement. “Cerberus/Chatham cannot dispute
this fact and cannot support any argument that recent volatility
in the global markets has negatively impacted the 64 hotels.”  The firms gave Innkeepers no explanation for their decision
other than the MAE clause, he said.  ‘Transaction Specific’  Officials for Cerberus didn’t respond to telephone calls or
e-mails seeking comment.  “Chatham looks at this development as transaction specific
not as a reflection of the hotel industry environment,” said
Michael Kontos, a spokesman for the Palm Beach-based real estate
investment firm. He declined to comment further beyond today’s
statement.  Innkeepers owns hotels in 20 U.S. states and the  District
of Columbia , including Residence Inns by Marriott and Hampton
Inns. Such midscale properties outside major urban areas have
been slower to recover than big-city hotels, he said.  “That’s a trend that’s been there, and the concern is that
in a recession there could still be some travel to major markets
but there’ll be less reason to go into these secondary
markets,” Loeb said.  Bankruptcy Exit  The collapse of the sale to Cerberus and Chatham disrupts
Innkeepers’ exit from Chapter 11 after a judge previously signed
off on a plan that has approval of the company’s creditors.  Chatham fell 30 cents, or 2.88 percent, to $10.12 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock is
down 41 percent this year, compared with the 37 percent decline
by the Bloomberg Hotel REIT Index.  At an auction in May, Cerberus and Chatham Lodging placed
the winning bid for the largest group of Innkeepers’ hotels,
topping an offer from a unit of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.
and Five Mile Capital Partners LLC. On July 14, Chatham
completed the acquisition of five hotels comprising 764 rooms
from Innkeepers for $195 million in cash, a deal that isn’t
affected by today’s decision.  Memories of 2007  The failure of the larger deal is an echo of the end of the
buyout boom in late 2007, triggering the cancellation of deals
valued at more than $100 billion. Financing evaporated in the
wake of the record subprime-mortgage defaults and the bankruptcy
of Lehman Brothers in 2008. The deepening global recession also
led companies to reduce their profit and sales forecasts,
raising questions about whether they were worth what buyers had
agreed to pay in more flush times.  The purchase of Montreal-based BCE for C$52 billion ($52.6
billion) fell apart in late 2008. That transaction was
terminated by an investor group led by  Ontario Teachers’ Pension
Plan  after the company’s auditor said the deal would leave BCE
insolvent.  That followed failed takeovers such as the $6.1 billion
buyout of racetrack and casino owner Penn National Gaming Inc.
by Fortress Investment Group LLC and Centerbridge Partners LP.
Bankrupt company Solutia Inc. was also close to exiting Chapter
11 in February 2008 during the credit crunch when lenders cited
a material adverse change clause to pull out of a $2 billion
loan commitment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  