-- 
Pickup in Industrial Output Buoyed U.S. in July, Chicago Fed’s Gauge Shows

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-22T14:32:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/chicago-area-industrial-index-improved-in-july-buoying-weak-u-s-economy.html
A pickup in industrial production
helped keep the  U.S. economy  from weakening further in July,
according to a  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago  gauge today.  The Chicago Fed national index, a weighted average of 85
economic indicators, improved to minus 0.06 in July from minus
0.38 a month earlier. The three-month average increased to minus
0.29 from June’s minus 0.54. Readings less than zero indicate
“below-trend” growth in the national economy, and the gauge
has been negative for four straight months.  “The message it’s flashing is you’d better be more worried
about weak growth and deflation than the opposite,” said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in
 New York .  A three-month average of less than minus 0.7 following a
period of economic expansion shows an increasing risk that a
recession has begun, according to the Chicago Fed.  Production-related indicators contributed most to the index
as a rebound at automakers helped boost industrial output by 0.9
percent in July.  More recent figures show the pickup in production may be
short-lived. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general
economic index plunged in August to the lowest level since March
2009, while the New York Fed’s regional index unexpectedly
contracted for a third straight month, reports showed last week.  July indicators of employment added little to the Chicago
Fed’s gauge, while the category measuring sales, orders and
inventories deteriorated last month.  The index is based on the work of James Stock of  Harvard
University  and Mark Watson of  Princeton University , which was
published in 1999 in the Journal of Monetary Economics.  Forty-three of the 85 indicators made a positive
contribution to the index in July, while 42 were negative. The
gauge was derived from data available by Aug. 18, at which time
52 of the 85 indicators had been published. The remaining 33
indicators were estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  