-- 
China Train Crash Was Avoidable: Safety Agency

-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-08-23T01:39:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/china-cuts-shanghai-beijing-hangzhou-high-speed-rail-services.html
A high-speed train crash that killed
40 people in  China  last month “could have been avoided,”
according to the agency leading the official investigation.  The crash exposed faults in the design of the signaling
system that was blamed for the accident as well as shortcomings
in emergency and safety-management systems, Huang Yi, a
spokesman for the State Administration of Work Safety, said in
an interview yesterday with state-run Xinhua News Agency. He
didn’t elaborate on the flaws identified.  “The accident should not have happened,” Huang said. “It
could have been avoided and prevented.”  The agency, due to complete an investigation into the crash
next month, will find the people and businesses responsible,
Huang said. China has also recalled trains, pared services and
slowed high-speed locomotives to boost safety following the
accident.  “The accident and the measures taken in the aftermath are
a crushing blow to China’s rail sector,” said  James Chung , an
analyst with Masterlink Securities in Shanghai. “But, of
course, the most important thing for China is to avoid such
tragedy happening again.”  Separately, the head of the Kunming Railway Bureau, Wen
Qingliang, was removed, Xinhua said on its website, citing Ta
Kung Pao, a Hong Kong-based newspaper. Calls to four different
numbers at the rail ministry went unanswered.  Services Canceled  Shanghai’s rail bureau said Aug. 21 it will  cancel  18 daily
high-speed services on lines to Beijing and Hangzhou. The cuts
include two trips a day in each direction on the Beijing line
and seven each way on the line to Hangzhou. The reductions will
begin Aug. 28.  The bureau made the cuts for scheduling reasons, it said
without elaboration. Earlier  reductions  after a train recall
pared the number of daily services on the Beijing- Shanghai  line
to 66 each way from 88.  The Shanghai bureau will continue to operate trains on the
line at 250 kilometers per hour (155 miles per hour) or 300 kph,
it said. The 221 billion-yuan ($35 billion) line began
operations on June 30.  The number of services on the Shanghai-Hangzhou line will
decline to 83 a day in each direction from 90, the Shanghai
bureau said. The tally will include 48 services operating at 300
kph, which will be the new top speed, down from 350 kph.  Lower Fares  “The cut in speed is a rational choice for the government
as it can enhance safety and affordability,” said  Zhao Jian , a
professor of economics at Beijing Jiaotong University.
“Abandoning the old ‘Great Leap Forward’ style of rail
development, which wasn’t rational, is also what China needs.”  First-class tickets for a one-way trip to Hangzhou from
Shanghai will drop to 124 yuan from 131 yuan, the Shanghai
bureau said. Second-class fares will be reduced to 78 yuan from
82 yuan. That’s in line with an earlier ministry announcement
that fares will be cut nationwide by about 5 percent on average.  The service changes come after China CNR Corp., the
nation’s second-biggest trainmaker, said on Aug. 11 that it was
recalling 54 high-speed locomotives to ensure safety standards.
The move followed a government order for safety checks, the
Beijing-based company said in a statement.  The trainmaker’s  CNR Changchun Railway Vehicles Co.  unit
yesterday denied the recall was prompted by faulty axles. No
cracks have been found in such parts, Vice President Zhao Minghua said by phone. Caixin’s  New Century Weekly  earlier
reported on its website that axles were the cause of the recall.  China CNR recalled the trains because of issues related to
sensors, which could affect punctuality, Zhao said. She didn’t
elaborate.  Stocks Plunge  Rail-related stocks have plunged since the accident on
concerns that it will disrupt the government’s plans to spend
2.8 trillion yuan on railways through 2015.  China CNR has slumped 29 percent in Shanghai trading since
the crash. It was little changed at 4.59 yuan in early trading
today. Larger rival CSR Corp. has fallen 35 percent in  Hong Kong 
since the accident and 25 percent in Shanghai.  The government has tightened rail safety checks, delayed
new projects and slowed high-speed trains nationwide following
the crash near Wenzhou last month. That accident occurred after
a train that had stopped following a lightning strike was rear-
ended by a second locomotive. A preliminary investigation
attributed the accident to a signal fault.  Officials Fired  Three officials in the Shanghai rail bureau were fired
following the crash. The bureau oversees operations in the area
of the accident. A rail ministry spokesman who was criticized
for explanations following the crash was also moved to a
position in Warsaw.  China appointed Sheng Guangzu as rail minister in February
after predecessor Liu Zhijun was removed amid a bribery
investigation, state-run Xinhua News said at the time. Liu
championed construction of the high-speed rail network, which
opened in 2007 and is due to reach 16,000 kilometers (9,900
miles) by 2015.  The rail ministry said in April that it planned to slow
high-speed trains and cut ticket prices to help boost passenger
numbers. That included paring the planned maximum speed on the
Beijing-Shanghai line to 300 kph from 350 kph.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  