-- 
Chinese Officials Visit South Africa to Study Corn Imports, Grain SA Says

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-08-22T14:43:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/chinese-officials-visit-south-africa-to-study-corn-imports-grain-sa-says.html
Chinese officials have visited  South
Africa  to investigate the possibility of buying corn from the
biggest producer of the grain on the continent.  The officials arrived last month to analyze the risk of
pests before considering imports “in the near future,” Barrett
Schoeman, an economist at Bothaville, South Africa-based Grain
SA, the country’s farming body, said in its monthly magazine.  China, the world’s second-largest corn producer, may need
to import 2 million metric tons of yellow corn in the 2011-12
marketing season to meet rising demand, Schoeman said.  A surplus that depressed South African prices to four-year
lows last year has pushed farmers to seek new export markets.
The government tried and failed last year to spur exports to
 China ,  Egypt  and Tunisia, South African Agriculture Minister
Tina Joemat-Petterson said in November. Grain SA is studying
Venezuela as a possible export market, Schoeman said.  South Africa may export a total of 2 million tons of white
and yellow corn this season, Schoeman said. That’s unchanged
from the 2.07 million tons sold last season through April 29,
even as South Africa reaped 12.82 million tons, the most since
1982. Buyers included  Japan ,  Spain ,  Italy ,  Taiwan  and Somalia.  The country produces mainly white corn, used mostly for
human consumption. Its exports of yellow-corn almost quadrupled
to 1.02 million tons, the highest level in 14 years.  China’s corn imports may grow to more than 10 million tons
annually in five years as demand rises faster than output, said
Zheng Wenhui, a researcher at South China Grain Trade Center.
Consumers are switching to diets rich in meat, poultry, eggs and
dairy, boosting demand for grain to feed livestock, Zheng said.  White corn for delivery in December closed at 2,200 rand
($305.77) a ton on the South Africa Futures Exchange in
Johannesburg today, after more than doubling from last year’s
low of 996 rand a ton. Yellow corn for delivery in September
sold for 2,168 rand a ton, up 62 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  