-- 
Cisco Vice President Carmel Leaves to Join Warburg Pincus

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-08-22T20:44:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/cisco-vice-president-charles-carmel-leaves-for-warburg-pincus.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  Vice President
Charles Carmel, who managed corporate development at the
networking-equipment company, has left to join the private-
equity firm Warburg Pincus LLC.  Carmel, 37, will be managing director in Warburg’s San
Francisco office, according to an e-mailed statement. He worked
at Cisco for a decade and previously was an investment banker at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Cisco is losing one of its top executives in mergers and
acquisitions as it faces increased competition and slowing sales
growth. The San Jose, California-based company expects revenue
to increase 1 percent to 4 percent in the current quarter, down
from a previous long-term forecast of 12 percent to 17 percent a
year. Cisco plans to reduce costs by $1 billion annually, an
effort that includes the elimination of 6,500 jobs.  “The tech industry is undergoing a good amount of
disruption and change,” Carmel said today in an interview. That
“creates opportunities for private equity and especially for
 Warburg Pincus , which invests across the spectrum -- from
venture to buyouts.”  Warburg Pincus, based in  New York , has more than $30
billion in assets under management, with investments in over 125
companies. The technology, media and telecommunications group,
run by Patrick Hackett, consists of 35 people in Beijing,
Frankfurt,  Hong Kong ,  London , New York and San Francisco,
according to the firm’s website.  “Charles’s experience and expertise in venture capital,
M&A and technology are an excellent fit with Warburg Pincus’s
growth-oriented approach to investing,” Hackett said in the
statement.  Cisco fell 7 cents to $15.01 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have declined 26 percent this
year, compared with an 11 percent drop for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  