-- 
Climate-Change Scientist Cleared in Closing of U.S. Data-Altering Inquiry

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-08-22T23:44:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/climate-change-scientist-cleared-in-u-s-data-altering-inquiry.html
Michael Mann , a Pennsylvania
researcher who’s been a target of climate-change skeptics, was
cleared of wrongdoing by U.S. investigators in the flap
surrounding e-mails hacked from a U.K. university.  Finding no “evidence of research misconduct,” the
Arlington, Virginia-based  National Science Foundation  closed its
inquiry into Mann, according to an Aug. 15  report  from the
inspector general for the U.S. agency.  Pennsylvania State
University , where Mann is a professor of meteorology, exonerated
him in February of suppressing or falsifying data, deleting e-
mails and misusing privileged information.  Climate-change doubters pointed to the stolen U.K. e-mails,
which surfaced in blogs in 2009, as proof that researchers
conspired to quash studies questioning the link between human
activity and warming. Last week, Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who
is seeking the Republican nomination for president, renewed the
assertion that scientists have “manipulated” data on climate
change.  “It was a pretty definitive finding” that the charges
“swirling around for over a year” were baseless, Mann said in
an interview. “I was very pleased.”  The report confirms findings from the U.S. National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration’s inspector general and a
separate panel of seven scientists based at universities in the
U.K., U.S. and  Switzerland . The University of East Anglia
announced the committee. Ron Oxburgh, the former head of Shell
Transport & Trading Plc and a member of the U.K. House of Lords,
was chairman.  ‘Closes the Books’  “It certainly closes the books on Michael Mann and the e-
mails,” Joe Romm, a blogger for the  Center for American
Progress , an advocacy group with ties to President Barack Obama’s administration, said in an interview. “They found
nothing wrong with the science, or any evidence that there was
anything wrong with how the scientists went about their work.”  The inquiries focused on the University of East Anglia’s
climate-research unit, which stored the poached e-mails on its
computer server. The university’s work contributed to some of
the key findings of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change, which has issued reports that blame rising
temperatures on human activity.  E-mails to and from Mann were in the pilfered cache. One
message by another scientist discussing Mann’s work spoke of a
“trick” used in presenting data to smooth out year-to-year
anomalies in  climate-change  information.  NOAA’s  report , released in February, was requested by U.S.
Senator James Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican who called the
theory of man-made climate change a hoax. The report found no
evidence of “manipulation of data.”  ‘Deeply Troubling’  “To say that the scientists have been vindicated is
oversimplifying the situation,” Matt Dempsey, a spokesman for
Inhofe, said in an interview yesterday. “What was revealed as
part of the Climategate scandal was deeply troubling and
certainly a setback for climate science.”  A report on the dispute commissioned by the University of
East Anglia found that while the honesty and rigor of U.K.
scientists weren’t in doubt, they may have deleted e-mails to
avoid having to make them public.  “There has been a consistent pattern of failing to display
the proper degree of openness,” the panel said in July 2010.  Mann was lead author of the first reconstruction of
northern-hemisphere warming going back 1,000 years, which showed
recent temperatures increasing sharply. The 1998 findings have
been confirmed by several studies, Mann said.  “The way you get ahead in science is by proving the other
guys wrong,” Mann said. “There is literally no study in the
peer-reviewed scientific literature that contradicts our
original conclusion.”  Presidential Campaign  Climate change has emerged as an issue in the race for the
Republican presidential nomination.  “There are a substantial number of scientists who have
manipulated data so that they will have dollars rolling into
their projects,” Perry said last week. “I think we’re seeing
almost weekly, or even daily, scientists that are coming forward
and questioning the original idea that man-made global warming
is what is causing the climate to change.”  Another Republican candidate, former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman , has said he believes human activity is causing climate
change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  