-- 
Cold Lager Beer a Result of Accidental Yeast Journey, New Research Says

-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-08-22T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/cold-lager-beer-a-result-of-accidental-yeast-journey-new-research-says.html
Scientists say they’ve found the
missing link. For beer, not humans.  The yeast that’s the biological difference between ale,
brewed at room temperatures, and cold-brewed lager that can be
stored for longer periods and still retain its taste, isn’t
native to  Bavaria , where lager was first made by monks in the
15th century. It comes from  South America , researchers say.  Now that the yeast’s genomic foundation is identified,
researchers say it could be manipulated to create new types of
designer beers. The microbe was found to exist on beech trees in
Patagonia, and may have made the 7,000-mile trip to Bavaria in
wood, or in the guts of mice or flies, the researchers reported
today in the Proceedings of the  National Academy of Sciences .  Because of the find, “you could envision an age of
designer yeast strains where brewers can pick the kind of genetic
traits you like,” said Chris Hittinger, an assistant professor
at the  University of Wisconsin-Madison  and a study author.  The yeast eluded the researchers for five years until one
of the team, Diego Libkind, discovered the strain, Saccharomyces
eubayanus, in fungi growing off the beech trees in  Argentina . He
has signed an agreement with a microbrewery near Bariloche,
Argentina, to develop new beverages using the yeast.  “We’re working together in the diversification of their
products using eubayanus or artificially forced eubayanus
hybrids,” Libkind, a researcher at the Bariloche-based
Institute for Biodiversity and Environment Research, said in an
e-mail.  Sugar Ingredient  The yeast strain is produced by the trees during a
bacterial infection in which a fungus attacks the beech and the
tree produces a growth called a gall, a mixture containing the
yeast, plant cells, fungi, and the key ingredient -- sugar, said
Hittinger.  “Those galls are very sugar-rich and ferment the tree. You
can smell it in the forest,” Hittinger said. “Local people in
this area would chop these galls off and eat them in salads.”  Cooler Patagonian temperatures mean that the yeast adapted
to ferment in a cold environment, he said, giving it the
refrigerated brewing capability that gives lagers their chilled
nature.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in New York at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  