-- 
Commerical Real Estate Prices in U.S. Climbed 0.9% in June, Moody’s Says

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-08-22T15:49:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/commerical-real-estate-prices-in-u-s-climbed-0-9-in-june-moody-s-says.html
U.S. commercial property prices rose
0.9 percent in June, the second straight monthly gain, as buyers
increased purchases in smaller cities in search of higher
returns, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The index, which measures broad price trends, is down 6.6
percent from a year earlier and 45 percent below the peak of
October 2007, the company said in a report today.  The increase represents a “firming up” of the market
bottom as investors moved beyond trophy properties and major
U.S. coastal cities, Moody’s said. Turmoil in capital markets
and a recent drop-off in lending of commercial mortgage backed
securities may delay “significant” near-term price increases,
according to the report.  Europe ’s debt crisis, signs the U.S. will remain mired in
sluggish growth through next year and the  Standard & Poor’s 
downgrade of the nation’s credit rating roiled financial markets
and triggered a selloff in securities linked to debt on
commercial real estate. Wall Street firms are ratcheting back
originating new commercial-property loans to package for sale,
making it harder for banks to gauge how much cash they will
recoup in bond sales and boosting rates for borrowers.  Sluggish Growth  The Moody’s index tracks repeat sales, which totaled 254 in
June. The result reflects deals that came before economic
reports issued in July and August showed growth is slowing and
unemployment remained at more than 9 percent, which may reduce
transactions and push down prices.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the
second quarter after a 0.4 percent gain in the prior three
months that was less than earlier estimated, Commerce Department
figures showed July 29.  Consumer spending  from April through
June had its smallest gain since the second quarter of 2009,
when the economy was in recession.  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) ’s National All Property Type Composite
Index climbed 2.2 percent from May, the second straight month
that measure gained, the Washington-based real estate data
provider said Aug. 10. The index was down 1.5 percent from a
year earlier and is 33 percent below a peak reached in 2007.  Green Street Advisors Inc., a real estate research company
in  Newport Beach ,  California , reported commercial property
values were unchanged in July from the previous month and up 18
percent from a year earlier. Prices are down 10 percent from
their peak, the company said Aug. 4.  Green Street’s index is weighted by asset value and
includes deals that are in negotiation or under contract.
Moody’s tracks completed sales, which are equally weighted in
calculating the index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  