-- 
Construction Bank Lifts Cash-Flow Cover on Local-Government Debt

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-22T16:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/construction-bank-lifts-cash-flow-cover-on-local-government-debt.html
China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  said
93 percent of its local-government loans were covered by  cash
flow  at the end of June as it sought to curb concern that the
nation’s $2.7 trillion credit boom will drive up bad debts.  The percentage of loans “fully or basically” covered
increased from 79.3 percent at the end of December, Guo Shuqing,
chairman of  China ’s second-biggest bank, said at a briefing in
Beijing yesterday. Provisions for local-government loans stood
at 325 percent, according to Huang Zhiling, chief risk officer.  China’s banking regulator told lenders to accelerate
collections and said they haven’t set aside adequate funds for
losses on local-government debt, a person familiar with the
matter said last month.  Standard & Poor’s  estimates as much as
30 percent of such loans may sour following the credit surge
that powered China’s recovery from the global financial crisis.  About 50 billion yuan ($7.8 billion) in loans to local-
government financing vehicles, or less than 10 percent of the
total, are due for repayment by the end of this year, said Chen
Zuofu, an executive vice president at China Construction Bank.
About 120 billion yuan, or 21 percent of the total, is due next
year, Chen said.  More than 80 percent of local-government loans were to
city- or higher-level administrations “whose financial strength
and credibility are relatively sound,” according to Chen.  Construction Bank is paying attention to risks in road
projects after lending 382.8 billion yuan for the programs, Guo
said a briefing in Beijing yesterday.  The lender aims to keep real-estate loans at about 30
billion yuan a year, Zhang Jianguo, the bank’s president said,
adding that the bank had about 3 billion yuan of non-performing
local-government loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  