-- 
Construction Bank in Talks With BofA on Strategic Accord

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-08-22T11:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/construction-bank-in-talks-with-bofa-on-strategic-cooperation.html
China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the
world’s second-largest lender by market value, said it’s in
talks with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  for a strategic cooperation
agreement after extending an existing accord to the end of 2012.  The lenders are discussing working together on retail and
corporate operations, as well as wealth management and
investment banking, President Zhang Jianguo told reporters in
 Hong Kong  today. A separate agreement that bars Bank of America,
the biggest U.S. lender by assets, from selling its Construction
Bank stake is set to expire Aug. 29.  “Bank of America will be a long-term strategic partner and
a major shareholder of Construction Bank,” Chairman Guo Shuqing
told reporters in Beijing today. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based lender has improved its capital adequacy ratio  and will
overcome other difficulties, he said.  The U.S. bank, which currently has a 10 percent stake in
Construction Bank valued at about $17 billion, has agreed to
hold some shares “in the long run” and won’t reduce its stake
to below 5 percent, Zhang said. The new accord isn’t linked to
the lockup period on the shareholding, Guo said.  Shares of Beijing-based Construction Bank fell 1.33 percent
to close at HK$5.20 in Hong Kong trading today, before the
briefing. The stock has fallen 25 percent in Hong Kong this
year, compared with a 15 percent decline in the city’s benchmark
 Hang Seng Index .  Construction Bank yesterday said first-half profit jumped
31 percent to a record 92.8 billion yuan ($14.5 billion) as
credit demand climbed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  