-- 
Cooperstown Brewer Fights N.Y. Fracking Sought by EOG Resources

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-08-22T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/cooperstown-brewer-fights-n-y-fracking-sought-by-eog-resources.html
Brewery Ommegang  says Belgian ale
and natural gas don’t mix.  That statement of the obvious matters, the maker of
Aphrodite Ale and Hennepin Farmhouse Saison says, because the
water it draws from aquifers beneath Cooperstown, New York, is
at risk of pollution from hydraulic fracturing.  “Even our strongest beer is 90 percent water, and all of
our water comes off the property,” Larry Bennett, a spokesman
for the brewery about 170 miles (274 kilometers) northwest of
Times Square, said in an interview. “If you contaminate an
aquifer, it’s done. There’s nothing you can do about it.”  Ommegang, an Otsego County tourist attraction along with
the  National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum , has joined a
growing grass-roots campaign in New York state to ban the
technology that has transformed U.S. gas production, Bloomberg
Government reported. The brewery, a unit of Belgium-based  Duvel
Moortgat NV, (DUV)  says it would face a “material threat” from a
leak of fluid used in hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, to free
natural gas from shale.  The state is poised to issue final drilling rules and
permits to tap into the Marcellus Shale formation sometime next
year, after a three-year review. In anticipation, drilling bans
have been put in place in 13 towns and are being debated in 19
more, according to Karen Edelstein, a geographic information-
systems consultant in Ithaca. Ommegang has chipped in $40,000 to
support the towns in Otsego County.  Cuomo’s Role  “Governor Andrew Cuomo is pressuring regulators to finish
their review and to start issuing permits,” Helen Slottje, an
attorney with the  Community Environmental Defense Council, Inc. 
in Ithaca who has helped towns opposed to drilling, said in an
interview. Towns are “increasingly aware of the great burden
gas drilling imposes on communities and are unwilling to bear
those costs,” she said.  Cuomo, a Democrat, said during his campaign last year that
fracking would create jobs, “but only if it is safe.” Since
taking office in January, he has pushed regulators to complete
their environmental review.  Companies such as  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) , a Houston-based gas
and oil explorer, have leased property in towns that banned
drilling or are working to block it, according to documents on
file with the Otsego County clerk. EOG doesn’t provide a
breakdown of its lease holdings by state or by county, company
spokeswoman K Leonard said in an e-mail.  Millions of gallons of chemically treated water are forced
underground in fracking to break up rock and let gas flow.
Technological advances led the  Energy Department  to more than
double its estimate of U.S. shale-gas reserves to 827 trillion
cubic feet and to project that the nation now has enough natural
gas to heat homes and run power stations for 110 years.  Schneiderman Subpoenas  Last week, Range Resources Corp.,  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG)  and
Goodrich Petroleum Corp. were subpoenaed by New York Attorney
General Eric Schneiderman over whether they accurately
represented the profitability of their natural-gas wells,
according to a person familiar with the matter. The subpoenas,
sent Aug. 8, requested documents on formulas used to project how
long the wells can produce gas without new fracking.  In Pennsylvania’s portion of the Marcellus Shale, which
stretches from Tennessee to New York, drilling has created
overnight millionaires from lease payments and gas royalties
paid by companies such as  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  Talisman
Energy Inc. (TLM)   “I have landowners already under lease,” Scott Kurkoski,
a Binghamton, New York-based lawyer who represents property
owners across the state who favor drilling, said in an
interview. “They have a contract with a company prepared to
market their minerals, and now towns are taking it away.”  ‘Plenty of Places’  No local initiatives to ban fracking have been offered in
Tioga, Broome and Chemung counties, which border Pennsylvania
and are potentially gas-rich areas, according to Kurkoski.  “My instinct is that there’s still plenty of places that
are receptive to drilling and that they’ll go to those places
first,” Joe Martens, commissioner of New York’s state
 Department of Environmental Conservation , which is drafting
drilling rules, said in an interview. “That’s kind of the
responsible approach.”  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is studying the
effects of fracking on drinking water. A committee advising U.S.
Energy Secretary Steven Chu said Aug. 11 that gas companies risk
causing serious environmental damage unless they commit to best
practices in engineering.  Produced Safely  Industry groups such as the Hamburg-based  Independent Oil &
Gas Association of New York , say shale gas can be produced
safely while generating jobs and tax revenue.  Environmental groups are succeeding in some towns by
raising fears over the technology, according to Richard Downey
of Otego, 76, a retired official with New York City’s schools.
Downey leads an Otsego County landowner’s group that supports
fracking in the towns of Unadilla, Butternuts and Otego.  “They have the environmental religion,” Downey said in an
interview. “They are protecting Gaea -- Mother Earth -- and
we’re just protecting property rights, and some money to a
certain extent, and you don’t get the same passion for that.”  The Marcellus Shale may contain 490 trillion cubic feet of
gas, making it the world’s second-largest gas field after the
South Pars formation in Iran and Qatar, according to Terry Engelder, a professor of geosciences at Pennsylvania State
University in State College. New York banned fracking until it
completes its environmental rules sometime next year, according
to Emily DeSantis, a spokeswoman with the  Department of
Environmental Conservation .  Court Challenge  Landowners that have leased property for drilling will
challenge local drilling bans in court on grounds that only the
state can regulate oil and gas production, Kurkoski said.  Slottje said the bans will hold up because zoning rules
aren’t considered regulation under New York law.  Both sides expect the issue to be decided in the New York
Court of Appeals, the state’s highest court. Legal maneuvers may
delay drilling in parts of the state for at least a year, said
Eduardo Penalver, who teaches land-use law at Cornell Law School
in Ithaca.  “If a town draws up a generally worded zoning law that
restricts or prohibits categories of activities, and that
encompasses hydrofracking, there’s a strong argument that that
is not prohibited under state law,” Penalver said in an
interview. “The power of municipalities to control what you can
do on your land is now pretty deeply entrenched.”  In December, Montreal-based  Gastem Inc. (GMR)  used low-volume
fracking, which is permitted in New York, to test a well in
Otsego County where the company has 22,000 acres under lease.
The results “quite satisfied” the company, spokesman David Vincent said.  “There’s always opposition,” Vincent, who predicted the
local drilling bans won’t succeed, said in an interview. “If we
do it right, people will accept that.”  ‘Three Philosophers’  That hasn’t won over Ommegang, which says it uses about 1
million gallons of water a year to make ales such as “Three
Philosophers Quadrupel,” described on its website as a blend of
cherries, roasted malts, and dark chocolate that will “only
achieve more wisdom and coherence as it broods in the dark
recesses of your cellar.”  Ommegang employs 82 people and receives about 40,000
visitors a year for beer tastings and tours, Bennett said. He
said it is named for a festival held in Brussels in 1549 to
commemorate a visit by Charles the Fifth, the Holy Roman
Emperor, and his son Philip II.  The brewery adds prestige to the fight against fracking,
Slottje said.  “Ommegang is one of the largest employers in the area,”
Slottje said. “They’re a tourist draw. They sort of exemplify
everything that the Cooperstown area is trying to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  