-- 
Curb Health Costs to Cut U.S. Budget Gap, NABE Survey Says

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-08-22T16:25:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/curb-health-costs-to-cut-u-s-budget-gap-nabe-survey-says-1-.html
About half of business economists
said in a private survey that U.S. fiscal policy should be more
restrictive in the next two years even with the economic
recovery showing signs of faltering.  Almost six of every 10 members polled by the  National
Association for Business Economics  said U.S. lawmakers should
reduce the federal  budget deficit  mostly through spending cuts.
Forty percent of the respondents said curbing health-care costs
would probably be the most successful part of any such plan.  The debate over federal spending has taken on greater
urgency since Standard & Poor’s this month downgraded long-term
 U.S. government debt  for the first time. The cut reflected the
failure of Congress and President  Barack Obama  to craft a budget
plan “necessary to stabilize the general government debt burden
by the middle of the decade,” the credit-rating service said.  The business economists’ survey was conducted between July
19 and Aug. 2, the day lawmakers agreed to put in place a plan
to enforce $2.4 trillion in spending reductions over the next 10
years, less than the $4 trillion S&P had said it preferred. The
U.S. currently has $14.6 trillion in outstanding public debt and
a $1.1 trillion deficit so far in the 2011 fiscal year that ends
in September.  The semiannual survey was of 250 NABE members. The group,
founded in 1959, includes business economists and those who use
economics in their work.  Spending Cuts  About 56 percent of respondents said Congress should
attempt to reduce the shortfall by only or mostly cutting
spending, compared with 6.8 percent who said they prefer mostly
or only tax increases. The remaining 37 percent favored an equal
share of spending cuts and higher taxes, the survey showed.  While a plurality said containing health-care costs would
probably be most beneficial, 25 percent said a  tax-code  overhaul
would be the best solution. They’re not optimistic Congress is
up to the task, as more than two-thirds expressed doubt any
changes to the tax code would occur in the next 12 months.  About three-quarters of the respondents to the survey said
a tax overhaul should raise additional revenue rather than be
revenue-neutral compared with the current system.  As for monetary policy, a little more than half of the
business economists said policy was “about right,” compared
with a third who thought it was “too simulative.” After the
survey ended, Federal Reserve policy makers pledged for the
first time to keep the benchmark  interest rate  at a record low
at least through mid-2013 to help spur growth in an economy
that’s growing “considerably slower” than expected.  Forty-three percent of respondents said the Fed’s $600
billion monetary stimulus from November to June along with an
earlier program aimed at spurring growth had been effective,
while 33 percent said it was not.  There is neither a risk for deflation nor inflation,
according to 36 percent of those surveyed. One in three said
there’s a risk of inflation, while 8 percent said deflation is a
risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  