-- 
Danish Banks No Better Buy After Rescue Proposals, PFA Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-22T11:57:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/danish-banks-no-better-buy-after-rescue-proposals-pfa-says.html
Denmark ’s second-biggest pension
fund is under-weighting its holding of Danish financial stocks
as government efforts to ease the country’s banking crisis fail
to win over investors.  “We would need to see both an improvement in the macro
economy and a new government bank package before we would change
our view,” Glenn Martin Vestergaard, senior portfolio manager
at PFA, said in an interview. The Copenhagen-based fund has
about 285 billion kroner ($55 billion) in investment assets.  Danish financial stocks have underperformed the country’s
equity market this year after the economy contracted and two
regional banks failed, triggering the European Union’s first
senior creditor losses within a resolution framework. Policy
makers have struggled to repair the damage as banks face a
funding drought that’s likely to worsen when a state guarantee
expires in 2013.  Shares of the country’s three biggest banks have lost more
than a third of their value this year, compared with a 23
percent decline in the benchmark  OMX Copenhagen 20 Index. (KFX) 
Financial stocks were the only losers in the index, with the
sub-index dropping 0.9 percent compared with a 0.7 percent
advance for the overall gauge as of 1:47 p.m. local time.  Share Losses  Shares in Danske Bank A/S, the country’s biggest lender,
have lost 42 percent this year, setting it up for the second-
worst worst annual performance since at least 1990. The bank
sold 232.9 million new shares in April to bolster its capital
base, raising net proceeds of 19.8 billion kroner. Jyske Bank
A/S shares have lost 43 percent and Sydbank A/S stock is down 35
percent this year.  Jyske today reported a 47 percent drop in second-quarter
net income to 88 million kroner, missing the average estimate of
260 million kroner in a Bloomberg survey. The shares of the
Silkeborg, Denmark-based bank lost as much as 7 percent.  While the government is working on a new bill to help banks
sidestep  Europe ’s toughest resolution laws, lenders still face
liquidity shortages. The central bank responded last week by
broadening its collateral terms indefinitely. The decision to
accept a wider variety of collateral shows “just how bad it
is” for some of the country’s banks, Vestergaard said in the
Aug. 19 interview.  “A new bank package that winds up banks in a different way
and extends state guarantees would be very, very positive for
the sector,” he said. “But the poor macro-economic picture is
even more important for the banks at the moment.”  Recession Impact  Denmark slid into a recession in the fourth quarter as the
Nordic economy lags behind recoveries in Sweden and  Norway .
State budget cuts, declining  house prices  and lackluster
 consumer spending  threaten to keep growth subdued.  The government’s proposal, announced Aug. 12, would allow
the state winding-up unit Financial Stability to take over bad
loans from ailing lenders if another bank wants to buy the
healthy parts. Denmark’s lenders need to refinance about $35
billion in state-guaranteed debt in the next two years. The
proposal would also allow a bank to have its guarantee extended
in the event of a takeover.  The government has since also said it wants to jumpstart
the country’s stalled housing market by allowing some buyers to
sidestep select fees and taxes. The plan, which Prime Minister
Lars Loekke Rasmussen revealed to newspaper Jyllands-Posten over
the weekend, are a “welcome initiative” to help bring
Denmark’s housing market back to pre-crisis levels, EDC-Gruppen
A/S, the country’s biggest realtor chain, said yesterday. The
government will provide further details of its proposal when it
presents its economic and budget outlook this week.  Not Enough  Measures to spur consolidation may not be enough to prevent
a liquidity squeeze as Denmark’s banks struggle to refinance
state-backed debt coming due in the next two years.  “There are a lot of state-guaranteed bonds out there and
it will be very difficult for many banks to refinance,” said
Vestergaard.  PFA returned 37.1 percent on its 4 billion-krone Danish
share portfolio last year, compared with a 32.7 percent gain for
all of the country’s stocks, including dividend payments. PFA
owns shares in Denmark’s largest lenders, including Danske.
Vestergaard declined to disclose specific holdings.  Since Denmark’s bank resolution bill took effect in
October, senior creditors have suffered losses on two occasions.
Amagerbanken A/S, formerly Denmark’s fifth-biggest listed
lender, collapsed on Feb. 6, while Fjordbank Mors A/S declared
itself insolvent on June 24.  ‘Steer Clear’  Regional lenders such as Spar Nord Bank A/S has said it
needs to sell off assets to generate cash because it can’t
access international funding markets.  “Foreign investors feel they might as well steer clear of
Danish banks after Amagerbanken’s collapse caused creditor
losses,” said Vestergaard. “That’s affecting banks’ profit
margins as they have to go out and pay more for their funding --
if they can get funding at all.”  Standard & Poor’s  said July 28 a further 15 banks in the
Nordic country “could default,” costing as much as 12 billion
kroner in the next three years.  Denmark’s Financial Services Union, which represents 55,300
employees, today urged politicians to disregard election
politics and pass a new banking law as the industry faces “an
acute situation.” Denmark must hold an election no later than
Nov. 12.  Five of Denmark’s 10 worst performing stocks this year are
regional lenders as Aarhus Lokalbank A/S,  Sparekassen Lolland (SPALOL) 
A/S,  Max Bank (MAX)  A/S, Totalbanken A/S and Sparekassen Faaborg A/S
all lost more than half their market value.  Denmark’s biggest lenders should be able to withstand the
fallout of more regional  bank failures , Ulrik Noedgaard,
director general of the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority,
said in a June 29 interview.  The country’s four biggest banks, Danske, Jyske, Nykredit
Realkredit A/S and Sydbank all passed the EU’s stress tests last
month. Their  capital ratios  ranged from 9.4 percent to 13.6
percent, exceeding the test’s 5 percent minimum, the European
Banking Authority said July 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  