-- 
DirecTV Embraces Web Streaming With NFL PlayStation Offer

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-22T20:03:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/directv-embraces-web-streaming-with-nfl-sunday-ticket-playstation-offer.html
DirecTV (DTV) ’s decision to make its
“Sunday Ticket” package available to  Sony Corp. (6758)  PlayStation 3
users may be the first step toward giving viewers access to out-
of-market NFL games on a range of Web-enabled devices, a DirecTV
executive said.  “If this test is successful, we have the opportunity to
distribute ‘Sunday Ticket’ through various different devices,
and we’re certainly open to relationships with other consoles
and Internet-connected devices,” Alex Kaplan, senior director
of sports marketing and product strategy for DirecTV, said in a
telephone interview.  DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite-television provider,
announced a partnership with Sony this week that allows
PlayStation 3 users to stream as many as 14 games each Sunday.
For non-DirecTV subscribers, the entire season costs $339.95 a
year. It’s the first time the company has made its exclusive
National Football League rights available to non-subscribers on
a non-mobile, television-connected device, enabling them to
watch games on their high-definition TVs.  DirecTV, based in El Segundo,  California , is migrating to
providing Internet-connected viewing as more people choose
online-video services. The top six U.S. publicly traded cable
and satellite companies lost a record 580,000 video subscribers
in the second quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
DirecTV attracted 26,000 net new U.S. satellite subscribers
during the period, the smallest number in 10 years, Bloomberg
and company data show.  Changing World  Kaplan said his company is targeting viewers who, for
various reasons, are unable to receive satellite TV.  “This product is designed for people who cannot get
DirecTV,” he said. “We’re trying to maximize value for Sunday
Ticket in a world where how people consume media is changing,
and we want to be at the forefront of that.”  DirecTV fell 17 cents to $41.76 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  DirecTV started its “Sunday Ticket to Go” application to
non-subscribers in 2008, allowing users to watch games on mobile
devices for $350 a year. The company will take in almost $1
billion in revenue from Sunday Ticket subscriptions in 2011,
according to  James Ratcliffe , a New York-based analyst for
Barclays Capital Inc. Current DirecTV subscribers pay about $330
for ‘Sunday Ticket’ through their satellite dish.  Internet-connected devices made by closely held Roku Inc.,
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , including its
video-game console  Xbox 360 , already allow video streaming from
websites such as  Netflix.com  and  Hulu.com . DirecTV CEO  Michael
White  said earlier this month the company might consider
acquiring Hulu, which has put itself up for sale.  College Students  If DirecTV is satisfied with the results of its PlayStation
3 partnership, the company could potentially pre-load Internet-
connected televisions with its app, said Kaplan. Target
audiences of the PlayStation partnership include residents in
cities such as New York, where tall buildings prevent a clear
signal for satellites, and video-game playing college students,
he said.  “Getting the NFL to people who aren’t DirecTV subscribers
certainly helps to defray the costs of broadcasting the games,”
said analyst  Matthew Harrigan  at Wunderlich Securities in
Denver. DirecTV is paying the NFL about $1 billion per season
through 2014 for the rights to the games.  There’s a risk the partnership with Tokyo-based Sony could
cannibalize potential DirecTV satellite subscribers or lead to
cancellations, Kaplan said. “Sunday Ticket” is one of
DirecTV’s primary promotional tools for new customer additions.
As a result, the company is capping the number of PlayStation
subscribers to test how the partnership will affect the
satellite business, he said.  Capping Subscriptions  While marketing “Sunday Ticket” to non-DirecTV
subscribers is a move away from satellite television, the goal
is to turn PlayStation users into future DirecTV customers, said
Kaplan.  “There are real revenue opportunities here from non-
DirecTV customers, and while they won’t sign up for DirecTV
right away, ultimately these people could move to the suburbs,
and we’ll have a relationship with them that could lead to a
conversion to DirecTV,” said Kaplan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  