-- 
Dollar Thrifty Asks Hertz, Avis for ‘Best, Final’ Takeover Bids by October

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-08-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/dollar-thrifty-asks-hertz-avis-for-best-final-takeover-bids-by-october.html
Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. (DTG) ,
a target of unsolicited takeover bids since April 2010, is
asking its two suitors to make “best and final” offers by
early October.  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  and  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR) , the
two largest publicly held U.S. auto-rental chains, have been
seeking Federal Trade Commission approval to buy Dollar Thrifty,
the fourth-largest U.S. rental-car company.  Avis has been seeking the same regulatory approval since
Dollar Thrifty shareholders rejected Hertz’s offer last
September. Hertz, after calling its previous bid “final,”
renewed its pursuit in May with an offer valued at $1.91 billion,
based on Friday’s closing prices. Avis’s offer is valued at
$1.55 billion.  “This has been going on for a long time,”  Dollar Thrifty 
Chief Executive Officer Scott Thompson said yesterday in an
interview. “From everything we’ve seen from the FTC lawyers,
both companies have what they need to know what they need to do
to clear FTC approval. They should be in a position to make a
credible compelling bid if they want to.”  Hertz is trying to thwart the proposed combination of Avis
and Dollar Thrifty with an exchange offer. Dollar Thrifty
recommended June 6 that investors reject Hertz’s bid because it
undervalues the company.  Shares Decline  Dollar Thrifty climbed as high as $83.74 on June 3 and has
since declined 26 percent to close on Aug. 19 at $61.91 in  New
York . On the same day Hertz fell to $9.71 in New York and is
down 33 percent so far this year, while Avis on the Nasdaq Stock
Market closed at $11.61 and has fallen 25 percent this year.  “This is a very positive development for the industry,”
Fred Lowrance, an analyst with Avondale Partners LLC in
Nashville, said in an e-mail. “M&A uncertainty has been an
overhang on all of these stocks, and investor and management-
team frustration with the length of the process has become
palpable.”  Avis declined to comment,  Andrew Siegel , a spokesman for
the Parsippany, New Jersey-based company, said in an e-mail.
Richard Broome, a spokesman for  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based
Hertz, did not respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Avis in June agreed to buy Avis Europe Plc, an Avis
licensee and the second-biggest car-rental company on the
continent, for 636 million pounds ($1.04 billion). Avis said on
Aug. 4 that it’s watching Dollar Thrifty developments and that
its focus is on planning the integration of its acquisition,
which is expected to close in early October.  Any new bids should be submitted by early October, Tulsa,
Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty said in its statement yesterday.  “After October 1 we’ll find out who’s serious and who’s
not,” Thompson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 