-- 
Dow Jettisons Monsanto’s Roundup Ready Gene With Latest Soybeans

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-08-22T14:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/dow-jettisons-monsanto-s-roundup-ready-gene-with-latest-soybeans.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the biggest U.S.
chemical maker, plans to stop using a widely licensed technology
from  Monsanto Co. (MON)  in the next generation of its Enlist
genetically modified soybeans.  The soybeans will substitute Monsanto’s Roundup Ready brand
of glyphosate weedkiller resistance for genetics developed with
M.S. Technologies LLC, Kendra Resler Friend, a spokeswoman for
Midland, Michigan-based Dow, said today in a phone interview.
The second generation of Enlist was recently submitted for U.S.
Department of Agriculture approval and will be available by
“mid-decade,” Dow said in a statement.  Dow is targeting customers who use St. Louis-based
Monsanto’s Roundup Ready seeds and Roundup weedkiller. Dow
forecasts its Enlist system may generate as much as $1.5 billion
of profit from herbicide and seed sales by helping farmers
combat weeds that are no longer killed by Roundup herbicide.
U.S. farmers planted Roundup Ready crops on 94 percent of
soybean acres this year, USDA  data  show.  The latest generation of Enlist brand beans also have been
engineered to tolerate 2,4-D and glufosinate weedkillers, Dow
said in the statement. Dow and  West Point , Iowa-based M.S.
Technologies are stacking the genetic changes at a single site
on the plant’s genome, speeding up breeding compared with the
first-generation Enlist soybeans in which the genes were added
at three separate locations, Friend said.  Dow has said it plans to begin selling the first generation
of Enlist herbicide tolerance by 2013 in corn, 2015 in soybeans
and 2016 in cotton, pending regulatory approvals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 