-- 
Mortgage Payments One Month Late Jump as Economy Weakens

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-22T15:20:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/early-mortgage-delinquencies-rise-to-highest-in-year-as-u-s-economy-slows.html
The percentage of U.S. mortgages
overdue by one month rose to the highest level in a year in the
second quarter as homeowners who lost jobs were unable to make
their payments.  The share of home loans overdue by 30 days rose to 3.46
percent of all mortgages, from 3.35 percent in the first
quarter, according to a report today from the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  in  Washington . The percentage of mortgages overdue
by 60 days increased to 1.37 percent from 1.35 percent, while
foreclosures dropped for the second consecutive quarter.  The gain in early delinquencies signals a slowing economy
may increase foreclosures, said  Jay Brinkmann , chief economist
of the trade group. The  unemployment rate  in the three months
ended June 30 rose to 9.1 percent from 8.9 percent, the first
quarterly increase since 2009, according to the Labor
Department. Jobless claims jumped to an eight-month high in late
April, government data show.  “Delinquencies very much reflect what’s going on in the
labor market, and we saw those numbers deteriorate,” Brinkmann
said in a telephone interview today. “The slowdown in
delinquencies we saw in prior quarters stopped the bleeding, but
this uptick could lead to more foreclosures.”  The delinquency rate for all mortgages rose to 8.44 percent
in the second quarter from 8.32 percent the previous three
months. The so-called seriously delinquent rate -- loans either
in default or in foreclosure -- dropped to 7.85 percent from 8.1
percent as banks began to catch up on cases delayed by backlogs
and documentation errors, Brinkmann said.  Foreclosure Overhang  “The overhang tied to delays in the court system is
improving slowly, though we still have a large backlog,”
Brinkmann said.”  The inventory of homes in foreclosure fell to 4.43 percent
from 4.52 percent in the first quarter, the second consecutive
quarterly decline, according to the Mortgage Bankers’ report.
New foreclosures dropped to 0.96 percent from 1.08 percent, the
third consecutive slump, the trade group said.  The world’s largest economy grew at a 1.3 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, the Commerce Department said on July
29. That was less than the increase of 1.8 percent forecast by
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A Federal Reserve report last
week showed manufacturing in the Philadelphia region contracted
in August by the most in more than two years as orders fell and
factories fired workers.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. lowered
their forecasts for U.S. gross domestic product last week. The
U.S. will expand 1.5 percent this year, down from a previous
forecast of 1.7 percent, according to Goldman economists in  New
York . JPMorgan predicts 1 percent growth in U.S. GDP in the
fourth quarter, down from an earlier projection of 2.5 percent,
the bank said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 