-- 
Lebanon Safer Than Dubai on Loaded Local Lenders: Arab Credit

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 
2011-08-22T20:01:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/lebanon-safer-than-dubai-on-loaded-local-lenders-arab-credit.html
Lebanon is safer than Dubai for the
first time since June in the market for credit default swaps as
foreign investors bet demand from the country’s banks will
offset the risk of buying the debt.  The cost of protecting Lebanon’s bonds against default for
five years fell 5 basis points last week to 375, while Dubai’s
contracts rose 3 basis points to 396, according to prices from
CMA. Lebanon has a B1  credit rating  at Moody’s Investors
Service, four levels below investment grade, and B by  Standard &
Poor’s , the fifth-highest junk rating. Dubai isn’t rated.  Lebanon is the Arab world’s most indebted nation with about
$52.6 billion in public liabilities, equal to 137 percent of the
gross domestic product. Lebanese banks hold about 70 percent of
the nation’s debt and are “highly” liquid with an average
loan-to-deposit ratio of 35 percent, Credit Libanais SAL said in
July. Dubai, whose holding company roiled global markets in 2009
as it sought a debt standstill, must repay about $31.2 billion
by the end of 2012, the  International Monetary Fund  estimates.  “The ability and willingness of Lebanese banks to buy up
government debt is a reason frequently cited why Lebanon would
not default,” Liz Martins, the Dubai-based senior economist at
HSBC Holdings Plc, wrote Aug. 21 in response to Bloomberg
questions. “More than half of Lebanon’s debt is now domestic.
That leaves about $21 billion in external debt, painful as a
percentage of GDP, yes, but only about half of Lebanon’s
reserves which stand at $46 billion including gold, and a
fraction of Dubai’s obligations.”  Gold Reserves  Lebanon held the second-biggest gold reserves in the Middle
East and Africa after  Saudi Arabia  as of March, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Dubai raked up about $113 billion to
become a regional financial and tourism hub, the IMF said in a
report published June 16.  The yield on Lebanon’s 4.75 percent dollar bond maturing
November 2016 rose 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage point,
since it began trading Aug. 2 to 4.69 percent yesterday. The
rate on Dubai government’s 5.591 percent debt maturing June 2021
with a five-year  put option  soared 21 basis points this month to
5.59 percent, according to Bloomberg prices.  Lebanon’s credit risk rose to 379 yesterday, while Dubai’s
declined to 386, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  “I can’t think of better value for your buck in the
current climate than Dubai and Dubai Inc. provided one can
stomach some volatility,” Ahmad Alanani, the Dubai-based head
of fixed-income sales for the Middle East and North  Africa  at
Exotix, said in an e-mailed response to questions on Aug. 22.
“The fundamentals have improved to Dubai’s favor. The emirate
has done a great job in terming out its debt profile and has
commenced deleveraging.”  Cutting the Budget  State-owned Dubai World reached an agreement in March to
restructure about $25 billion with creditors and the government
took over the company’s property unit in July, Nakheel PJSC,
following a $13 billion debt deal. The Persian Gulf business hub
set up a $5 billion-bond program in June, and expects to reduce
its 2011  budget deficit  to 3.8 billion dirhams ($1 billion), the
lowest in four years, according to the bond prospectus
distributed via the  Regulatory News Service .  Dubai’s government bond still yields 88 basis points more
than the average rate on debt in the  Middle East , which last
traded at 4.71 percent on Aug. 19, the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Middle
East Conventional US Dollar Bond Index shows. The index tracks
108 securities in the region, including 19 sovereign bonds from
Lebanon.  Limited Supply  “Lebanon has terrible credit metrics. Having said that,
you have to consider that the technicals are very supportive,”
said Emanuele Del Monte, who helps oversee about $1.5 billion in
emerging-market debt at Fideuram Asset Management Ireland Ltd.,
in an e-mailed response to questions Aug. 16. Bond “supply is
limited and above all domestic liquidity is abundant,” he said.  Lebanese lenders attracted deposits with  interest rates  as
high as 8 percent and confidence in the Lebanese pound, which
has been pegged at about 1,500 to the dollar since the 1990s.
Lebanon’s banks largely avoided the global financial turmoil of
2008 and 2009 because Central Bank Governor Riad Salameh banned
them in 2004 from buying non-Lebanese risky assets, including
non-investment grade paper and derivatives.  Lebanon’s “public debt is not volatile, as most of the
holders are institutions and individuals who are very familiar
with political risks in the country,”  Nassib Ghobril , chief
economist at Beirut-based  Byblos Bank SAL (BYB) , the nation’s third-
biggest bank, said in an e-mail yesterday. “Recent history has
shown that deposit outflows have been rare despite long periods
of political instability.”  Tumult in Syria  Unrest in neighboring Syria and political wrangling in
Lebanon slowed the economy this year, Ghobril said. The
country’s growth rate will drop to 2.5 percent in 2011, the
 lowest since 2006 , according to  IMF  figures. The gross domestic
product expanded by 7.5 percent last year.  Syria, Lebanon’s only land link with the Arab World, has
been gripped since March by protests against President Bashar al-Assad’s 11-year rule. Assad backs the Hezbollah-dominated
government of Prime Minister  Najib Mikati , formed on June 13.
His predecessor,  Saad Hariri , lost power in January when
Hezbollah and its allies resigned from the cabinet amid an
investigation by a United Nations tribunal into the 2005
assassination of his father, Rafiq.  “Lebanon’s bonds look indeed safe to me,” Sergey Dergachev, who holds Lebanese debt and oversees $8.5 billion in
emerging-market debt at Union Investment Privatfonds in
 Frankfurt , said by e-mail on Aug. 22. “Only a significant
change to the worst in  Syria , a complete fall of Assad regime
with pure chaos, will lead to more risks of deposit outflows.
And this could be a warning signal for debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net , Dana El Baltaji
in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ,  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 