-- 
Hedge Funds Buying Corn to Silver to Soy After Commodities Futures Decline

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-08-22T20:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/hedge-funds-buying-corn-to-silver-to-soy-after-commodities-futures-decline.html
The rout that drove commodities to a
nine-month low is proving irresistible to speculators
anticipating that even slowing economic growth will cause
shortages of raw materials.  Oil has risen 8 percent since plunging 25 percent in the
two weeks to Aug. 9. Copper has rebounded 4.6 percent after
sliding 16 percent. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Enhanced
Commodity Index rose 4.2 percent since bottoming almost two
weeks ago. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. expects the gauge to gain 20
percent in 12 months, led by energy and industrial metals.  While mounting concern about the economy wiped more than $8
trillion off the value of global equities in four weeks,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show  hedge funds  and
other speculators increased bullish commodity bets by 2.5
percent in the week ended Aug. 16, the most in a month. Traders
still expect production shortfalls in copper, corn and oil as
emerging economies expand. Wagers on corn, silver and soybeans
rose and those on oil were little changed.  “We still see the emerging world as continuing to grow,
and although there may be this period of liquidation, it is
going to be short term,”  Ian Henderson , who manages $9 billion
of natural resources assets at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London,
said in a telephone interview Aug. 11. “When things recover, I
think that the commodities sector will once again be a leading,
if not the leading, sector from an investment perspective.”  Bullish Bets  Net-long positions, or bets on higher prices, held by
speculators in 18 commodities rose to more than 1 million
futures and options in the week through Aug. 16, according to
the CFTC in  Washington . That’s a recovery from the previous
week, when the balance of wagers declined 19 percent as oil
prices fell amid delays in raising the U.S.’s $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling, slower-than-expected economic growth and Standard
& Poor’s Aug. 5 decision to cut America’s AAA credit rating.  Bullish bets fell 22 percent to 989,110 futures and options
in the two weeks ended Aug. 9, 37 percent below the peak of 1.56
million contracts reached in September, CFTC data show. The
decline was nowhere near the depths of the bear market of 2008,
when economies were reeling from the worst global recession
since World War II and the S&P GSCI Enhanced index fell 66
percent in the seven months through February 2009. The net-long
managed money position plunged to 67,260 contracts in October
2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Corn climbed 1.5 percent on the Chicago Board of Trade last
week, gaining 67 percent in the past year. Soybeans increased
2.5 percent, for a 33 percent advance in the past 12 months.
Silver, the precious metal most used in industry, rose 8.6
percent, extending its 12-month rally to 130 percent.  ‘Trajectory Higher’  The gains reflect global demand and the inability of oil
and mining companies to keep pace rather than a rebound in
growth in the U.S., which consumes twice as much crude as any
other nation. The U.S. Energy Department expects a 490,000
barrel-a-day global shortfall of crude oil and liquid fuels this
year and 420,000 in 2012, according to its latest monthly
report.  Brent crude  rose 0.5 percent last week to $108.62 a barrel
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange for a gain in the past year
of 44 percent. It fell as much $3.47 today to $105.15 as
investors bet that Libyan production may recover after rebels
entered the capital to force out leader  Muammar Qaddafi . The oil
ended the day down 26 cents, or 0.2 percent, at $108.36.  West Texas Intermediate oil for September settlement on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  dropped 3.7 percent last week to
$82.26 a barrel, the cheapest of any contract available through
the end of 2019. It rose $1.86 to $84.12 today. Even after the
slump, oil costs 15 percent more than a year ago.  ‘Too Low’  “Oil market data continues to suggest that the trajectory
for crude  oil prices  is higher into 2012,” New York-based David Greely and two other analysts from Goldman Sachs wrote in a
report Aug. 18. “Oil prices fall sharply on downdrafts of weak
economic data, only to rise as oil prices remain too low to
balance current supply and demand.”  Goldman’s commodity researchers reiterated recommendations
on Brent crude, copper, zinc, U.K. natural gas, soybeans and
gold on Aug. 8. Zinc advanced 6.6 percent in the past year,
while the rest rose 22 percent or more. Bets on higher prices
shrank for gasoline, heating oil, sugar and copper in the week
through Aug. 16, the CFTC data showed.  Copper demand will outpace supply by 639,000 metric tons
this year, the most since 2004, Barclays Capital commodity
analysts said in an Aug. 16 report, citing “labor strikes,
weather, lower ore grades and technical problems.” The fastest
expansion in supply in more than a decade next year still won’t
be enough to meet demand, the analysts said.  Bullish Bets  Copper slipped 0.8 percent to $4.0025 a pound last week on
the Comex, paring the past year’s gain to 19 percent. Bets that
prices will rise outnumbered wagers they will fall by 2,536
contracts, CFTC data showed. Futures contracts anticipate prices
above $4 from December through the middle of 2013.  Barclays also expects deficits in lead, nickel and tin for
this year or next in part because of rising demand from  China ,
whose gross domestic product grew 9.5 percent last quarter,
outpacing every other major economy. China consumes 38 percent
or more of global copper, aluminum, nickel and zinc supply,
Macquarie Group Ltd. estimates.  Global corn stockpiles will drop 6.8 percent in the 2011-12
marketing year, a third annual decline, to 114.5 million metric
tons as a record harvest falls short of demand, U.S. Department
of Agriculture data show. Traders anticipate prices will
continue to rise through July 2012, futures prices show. Wheat
inventories will be lower for a second year and soybean stores
will also shrink, the USDA says.  Soybean Rise  Hedge funds and other speculators increased bets on rising
corn prices by 9.6 percent in the week through Aug. 16, CFTC
data show. Bullish wagers on soybeans jumped 25 percent and
those on silver 9.8 percent.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, below economists’ median forecast of 1.8
percent. The Commerce Department on July 29 cut its first-
quarter estimate to 0.4 percent from 1.9 percent. There is a 40
percent chance of another U.S. recession, Bruce Kasman, chief
economist at JPMorgan in  New York , said in a Bloomberg
Television interview on Aug. 19.  Not all the economic data have pointed to slower growth.
Industrial production in the U.S. climbed 0.9 percent month on
month in July, the most this year, the  Federal Reserve  reported
Aug. 16. China’s industrial output rose 14 percent in July from
a year earlier, the Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics
reported Aug. 9. The risk of a global recession may be “a bit
higher” than one-in-three, Nobel economics laureate  Paul Krugman  said in an interview in  Stockholm  on Aug. 18.  Global Equities  It was mounting concern about recession that drove the
combined market capitalization of global equities to almost $47
trillion on Aug. 19, from $55 trillion on July 24, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Commodities don’t always correlate with stock markets. The
S&P GSCI Enhanced index rose 36 percent in 2002 as the MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities slumped 21 percent, and advanced
45 percent in 2000 as stocks slid 15 percent. They dropped
together by about the same amount in 2001 and 2008.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s biggest listed producer of
crude, fell as much as 22 percent in New York during a three-
week rout to Aug. 9. The Irving, Texas-based company is trading
at a multiple of 8.1 times earnings anticipated by analysts, the
lowest since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Melbourne-
based BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
dropped 23 percent in London since July 22 and is trading at 6.4
times expected earnings, the lowest since January 2009.  Derailing Growth  Some investors are betting that economies will keep
weakening amid mounting debts and rising unemployment. The Fed
has held  interest rates  at a record low of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008 and on Aug. 9 pledged to keep its target
rate for overnight loans between banks unchanged through mid-
2013. European debt crises from  Greece  to Ireland may also
derail growth across the continent.  Investors should focus on commodities “least vulnerable”
to the European debt crisis and slower growth, including gold,
corn and wheat, JPMorgan analysts said in a report Aug. 3.
Barclays’s commodity-research team named copper, corn and oil as
its top picks in a report Aug. 16, with gold as “additional
protection” during “severe tension between tight commodity
fundamentals and downbeat macroeconomic expectations.”  Growth won’t slow enough to resolve “supply constraints,”
Morgan Stanley’s researchers said in a report Aug. 4. Oil demand
will strengthen this quarter and precious metals will remain
attractive, they wrote. The bank also favors copper, aluminum,
corn and soybeans.  Exchange Traded  Gold surged as stocks slumped, rising to a record $1,894.80
an ounce today, with investors seeking the perceived safety of
the metal. Holdings in exchange-traded products backed by gold
reached a record high of almost 2,217 metric tons on Aug. 8,
valued at about $132 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There are a number of ominous signs around that suggest
that the potential for financial crisis or some kind of
disorderly sell-off is quite high again,” Brenton Saunders, who
helps manage $1 billion at Sydney-based Taurus Funds Management
Pty Ltd., said Aug. 12. “We’ve reduced the direct exposure to
the markets of our investments very significantly,” increasing
the cash holding to 35 percent from 15 percent, he said.  For now, economists aren’t anticipating a return to the
slump of 2008. The U.S. will grow 1.75 percent this year,
compared with a 0.3 percent contraction in 2008, the median
estimate of 56 economists surveyed by Bloomberg shows. Emerging
and developing economies will expand 6.6 percent this year,
three times the pace of advanced economies, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in June.  “What keeps us from getting too bearish over the medium
term is the problem of supply,” said Poppy Allonby, who co-
manages BlackRock Inc.’s BGF World Energy Fund, which held $6.3
billion of assets as of July 29, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. “We are seeing weakness in demand. But less
attention is being paid to the supply dynamic. It is the balance
of demand and supply that counts longer term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Margot Habiby in Dallas at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 