-- 
Medvedev Names Poltavchenko Acting St. Petersburg Governor

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-08-22T17:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/medvedev-names-poltavchenko-acting-st-petersburg-governor-1-.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
named Georgy Poltavchenko as acting head of  St. Petersburg  after
a municipal vote paved the way for Valentina Matviyenko, the
outgoing governor, to lead the upper house of parliament.  Matviyenko, who has governed the nation’s second biggest
city since 2003, won more than 93 percent of votes in two
municipal districts, becoming eligible for the job in the
Federation Council, Alexander Gnetov, head of the city’s
electoral commission, said in comments broadcast on state
television.  The president will select the new governor from a short-
list of candidates presented by the local legislature, dominated
by Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s United Russia party. Medvedev
picked Poltavchenko, a St. Petersburg native and a presidential
envoy for the Central Federal District that includes the Russian
capital, to replace Matviyenko on a temporary basis, the Kremlin
said in a  statement .  Matviyenko’s departure follows the ouster of former Moscow
Mayor Yury Luzhkov last September and comes as  Russia  prepares
for parliamentary elections in December and a 2012 presidential
contest in which Putin may seek to return to the Kremlin. Deputy
Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak was the chief candidate to succeed
Matviyenko, Kommersant said Aug. 11, citing unidentified people.  ‘Compromise Figure’  “Poltavchenko is a compromise figure and is really already
the governor,” Mikhail Vinogradov, head of the St. Petersburg
Politics Foundation, said in a telephone interview today. “On
the one hand, he’s Putin confidante, but he’s also worked with
Medvedev.”  St. Petersburg is  Europe ’s fourth most populous  city  after
London, Moscow and Paris with a population of about 4.6 million
people, and is also the hometown of Medvedev and Putin.  Poltavchenko, 58, appointed envoy to the Central Federal
District in 2000,  worked  for Russian security services between
1979 and 1992.  Medvedev in June  backed  Matviyenko’s candidacy to lead the
Federation Council and become the nation’s third-highest ranking
official.  Boris Nemtsov , an opposition leader and deputy prime
minister under the late President  Boris Yeltsin , wrote on his
 blog  that independent candidates were barred from running
against Matviyenko, calling her election “a practice run of the
fraud” planned during the parliamentary and presidential polls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  