-- 
Electrolux Buys Chile Appliance Company CTI in $690 Million Deal

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-08-22T08:22:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/electrolux-buys-chile-appliance-company-cti-in-690-million-deal.html
Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the world’s second-
biggest appliances maker, will buy Compania Tecno Industrial SA
in a transaction valued at about $690 million to become the
largest supplier of appliances in Chile and Argentina.  Electrolux will offer 34.87 Chilean pesos per share in CTI,
a 21 percent premium on the closing price of Aug. 16 before
talks were announced, the company said in a statement today.
Electrolux will also bid 325 pesos per share for CTI subsidiary
Sociedad Manufacturera De Electroartefactos SA.  As Stockholm-based Electrolux has been working with CTI for
the past 15 years, “CTI appears to be an ideal target,”  James Stettler , an analyst at UniCredit, said in a note to clients
today. “Expanding the base makes sense, but execution will be
key.” Stettler recommends clients buy Electrolux shares and
sees the stock rising to 200 Swedish kronor within a year.  CTI had 203 billion pesos ($430 million) in sales last
year. The company has two manufacturing sites in  Chile  and one
in Argentina and employs 1,200 people. It makes refrigerators,
washing machines and stoves known under the Fensa and Mademsa
brands in Chile, and under the Gafa brand in Argentina. The
transaction is the second-largest purchase of an appliances
maker announced in the past 12 months, according to Bloomberg
data.  Electrolux said it secured a stake of about 64 percent in
CTI from Sigdo Koppers SA and associated parties.  As part of the deal, CTI will pay its shareholders a pre-
closing dividend of 1.63 pesos per share for the first half of
2011. The implied enterprise value for CTI and its subsidiaries
is about 4.4 billion Swedish kronor ($690 million), Electrolux
said.  “ Latin America  is very important to our growth plans,”
Electrolux Chief Executive Officer Keith McLoughlin said in the
statement. Electrolux is committed to CTI’s brands, which
complement its own, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 