-- 
EMI Wins Partial Victory in Copyright Suit Against MP3tunes

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-08-23T01:52:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/emi-wins-partial-victory-in-u-s-music-copyright-lawsuit-against-mp3tunes.html
EMI Group Ltd. won a partial victory
in a copyright lawsuit against the online music storage site
MP3tunes LLC, which was found liable for contributory
infringement.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in  Manhattan  ruled today
that MP3tunes contributed to infringement when it failed to
remove unauthorized songs from its website after being informed
about them.  “Users of MP3tunes unlawfully copied songs from
unauthorized third-party websites,” Pauley wrote in his order.
Pauley also ruled that Michael Robertson, MP3tunes’s founder and
chief executive officer, was liable for direct infringement for
personally transferring songs digitally from websites that
weren’t authorized to provide them.  EMI and other music companies have taken websites to court
in attempts to reduce losses caused by people sharing songs
online without paying for them. In May, the  music industry 
reached a $105 million settlement with Lime Wire LLC for
copyright infringement, while the case was on trial in federal
court in  New York .  Pauley, agreeing with MP3tunes that the safe harbor
provision of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act protected it,
ruled against EMI on some claims. The safe harbor protection
doesn’t apply to instances in which MP3tunes users got songs
from unauthorized sites and stored them on the San Diego-based
company’s website, the judge said.  The judge also rejected EMI’s request for a ruling that
MP3tunes employees were liable for infringement by downloading
171 songs.  ‘Lip Service’  “The court’s decision confirms that businesses cannot
simply pay lip service to the law while undermining the rights
of the musicians, artists and writers that create popular
music,” Dylan Jones, a spokesman for London-based EMI, said in
an e-mail. “The decision also proves that company executives
that personally contribute to and commit copyright infringement
will be held accountable for their actions.”  Jones said the company is evaluating its options for
seeking review of the decision that that MP3tunes was protected
by the so-called safe harbor defense.  Robertson didn’t have an immediate comment on the ruling.  EMI is owned by New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which is
trying to sell it.  The case is Capitol Records v. MP3tunes LLC, 07-09931, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  