-- 
Templeton’s Mobius Sees Stock Markets Rising on Inflation

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-08-22T10:29:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/templeton-s-mobius-sees-stock-markets-rising-on-inflation-1-.html
Global stock markets are “bouncing
along the bottom” after tumbling 16 percent in the past four
weeks, and will start to climb as inflation accelerates, said
Templeton Asset Management’s  Mark Mobius .  The U.S. Federal Reserve hasn’t given up supporting the
economy by printing money and buying more Treasuries, said
Mobius, executive chairman of Templeton Asset’s emerging markets
group. The firm is buying commodity stocks, expecting raw
material prices to rise, he said.  “At this point, I do think we’re bouncing along the
bottom,” Mobius, who helps manage about $50 billion, said in a
telephone interview with Bloomberg Television today. “For us in
equities, it’s particularly good because people will eventually
realize that to beat inflation that’s coming as a result of this
higher  money supply , we’re going to have to be into equities.”  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of stocks fell last week for a fourth
straight week as investors took flight after a deadlock in the
U.S. congress brought the government to the brink of default,
reports showed the world’s biggest economy is slowing, and
concern grew that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will spread.
The losses triggered speculation Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
will this weekend signal a third-round of asset purchases to
help sustain a recovery.  Energy and material stocks have been among the three worst
performers in the past month in the 10 industry groups tracked
by the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index, as a measure of primary metals
traded in  London  and New-York-traded oil futures slumped.  ‘An Opportunity’  “It’s been an opportunity,” said Mobius. “With the
amount of liquidity coming into the system, commodity prices
have to be maintained at higher and higher levels. The trend is
very, very clear, and that’s up.”  Mobius told Bloomberg TV Aug. 5 that he doesn’t expect the
U.S. to experience a double-dip recession because of the
likelihood of further economic stimulus.  The  S&P 500  may stage a short-term rally because companies
are cashed up and likely to buy back shares at a time when
price-to-earnings ratios are low, said economist Andrew
Smithers. Investors should sell shares once their holdings gain
10 percent because even after the recent rout, U.S. stocks are
about 40 percent above fair value, the president of research
company Smithers & Co.  said in an e-mail on Aug. 18.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies have about $291 in
cash and short-term investments per share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest since 1998, when
Bloomberg data became available.  Volatility to Continue  Economists said reports this week may show U.S. companies
ordered less equipment in July, and that the economy grew even
less in the second quarter than previously estimated.  “It’s not certain to us what the  Federal Reserve  can say
to calm people’s nerves,” Don Williams, chief investment
officer at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney, said in a
separate Bloomberg Television interview today. “This period of
volatility that we’re in has still got a way to play out.”  Global stocks will rise even amid investor concern that
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis may be prolonged by German
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s resistance to calls for common euro-
area bonds, according to Mobius.  The region’s crisis is moving toward a resolution after
European Union pledges this year to stabilize the euro-area
economy and stave off a Greek default, Mobius said.  “I believe the situation in Europe will get better now
that they have a facility to bail out these countries,” he
said. “But in the meantime, the loss of confidence has really
hit both sides of the Atlantic, and that’s something that’s
going to have to wear away as we go forward.”  Mobius said today he remained interested in consumer
stocks, as well as equities in emerging markets such as  Brazil ,
 China ,  Thailand ,  Indonesia  and  Russia . On Aug. 5, he told
Bloomberg TV that emerging economies were in “better shape”
than developed nations amid the turmoil roiling global markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 