-- 
England Thwarts Sachin Tendulkar to Sweep India 4-0 in Cricket Series

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-08-22T16:24:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/england-thwarts-sachin-tendulkar-to-sweep-india-4-0-in-cricket-series.html
England ended  Sachin Tendulkar ’s
push for a 100th international century before wrapping up an
innings victory over India in the final Test at the Oval to
secure a sweep of the four-match series.  Tendulkar got within nine runs of the landmark when he was
trapped leg-before-wicker by  Tim Bresnan . He fell soon after
Amit Mishra was bowled by Graeme Swann for 84. India collapsed
to defeat, by an innings and 8 runs, following the pair’s
dismissal.  Mishra and Tendulkar put together a fourth-wicket stand of
144. After their departure India added just 21 to give England
its second innings victory in a row in a series where India
failed to find any form.  England ’s narrowest victory margin was
by 196 runs in the first Test at Lord’s.  A sixth straight series victory means England becomes the
fourth country to hold the top spot since the International
Cricket Council introduced the current rankings in 2003, after
Australia,  South Africa  and India, which drops two places to
number three.  “They deservedly are the No. 1 side in the world,” Rahul
Dravid, India’s highest run-scorer of the series, said during
the post-match presentation ceremony. “They played really well
in the series and they outplayed us.”  Swann got nine wickets in the match, including six in the
second innings, as India failed to make England bat again. The
home team, led by  Ian Bell ’s 235 and  Kevin Pietersen ’s 175,
declared at 591-6 before bowling India out for 300 and 283.  “ I thought he toiled away brilliantly, he had to work
hard for his wickets but he was supported well by the seamers,”
captain Andrew Strauss said when asked about Swann’s efforts.  Climbed Rankings  England has won 21 Test matches under the partnership of
Strauss and coach Andy Flower. The two came together when England
was ranked No. 6 in the world and had been bowled out for 51 in
a Test match against the West Indies in  Jamaica  in 2009. Since
then England has climbed the rankings and secured memorable
victories including winning and then retaining the Ashes against
 Australia .  “The players have worked extremely hard to get the skills
to where they are, to get their conditioning up to where it is
and this is a reward for their efforts,” Flower said.  India came into the series with many commentators expecting
its batsmen to engage the English bowling attack in a close
battle. That didn’t happen, and the team reached 300 runs once,
with only Dravid performing consistently. He scored a team high
461 at an average of 76.83.  “It’s a bittersweet feeling,” he said. “It gives you a
certain sense of personal satisfaction but I know we could have
played better here.”  Unscathed  Tendulkar and Mishra got to lunch unscathed today and  India 
looked like they might post a score that would require England
to bat again. Both of them fell with the score on 262 and
England pressed for victory by taking five wickets for seven
runs. Swann got Gautam Gambhir before wrapping up the win by
bowling Sreesanth with a well-flighted delivery.  India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni said he expects to be
criticized when his team returns home. He vowed to carry on in the
role.  “It’s important to stay together as a team, stay together
as a unit,” he said. “The expectations are quite high in India
but it’s about the team sticking together.”  The teams will now face off in a Twenty20 match and five
one-day international games. India won the Cricket  World Cup , a
one-day competition, earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 