-- 
Eni, Biggest Foreign Investor Under Qaddafi, Says Contracts Protected

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-08-22T16:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/eni-biggest-foreign-investor-under-qaddafi-says-contracts-protected.html
Eni SpA (ENI) , the biggest foreign
investor in  Libya  under  Muammar Qaddafi , expects a new
government to honor the Italian oil company’s contracts as rebel
fighters declared the end to a regime that ruled for 42 years.  “Our contracts are protected by international law,”
Chairman Giuseppe Recchi said in an interview in Rimini, Italy.
An end to conflict will be “very positive” and allow output to
resume, he said after rebel fighters stormed Tripoli.  Eni has committed to invest $25 billion over the next 10
years in Libya, where it has had a presence since 1959, a decade
before the military coup that brought Qaddafi to power.  The company, based in  Rome , rose 6.3 percent to 13.27 euros
by the 5:30 p.m. close of Milan trading after rebels reached the
Libyan capital, raising the prospect of an end to a war that all
but halted Eni’s production in the country. Libya made up about
13 percent of Eni’s revenue before the conflict began.  Recchi wasn’t able to say when plants may reopen and won’t
send workers to resume output until the situation stabilizes.  “This is good news for Eni but to be reassured we’ll need
to know what plans the rebels have and whether they can quickly
pacify and manage the country,” said Massimiliano Romano, head
of research at brokerage Concentric  Italy  in Milan. “Between
that and getting production going again, I think it will take
some time before companies are making money in Libya again.”  ‘Friendship Treaty’  Before the fighting, Italian companies had been increasing
investments in Libya as Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  signed
a “friendship” treaty with Qaddafi in 2009. The deal included
a pledge of $5 billion for Libyan infrastructure, led by Italian
companies, as compensation for Italy’s 30-year occupation of the
country that ended with Mussolini’s defeat in World War II.  Italy may compensate companies that suffered losses because
of the Libyan conflict, Industry Minister Paolo Romani said
today. Measures to help “hundreds” of companies may be
included as amendments to an austerity plan being reviewed by
parliament, he told reporters, without giving more details.  “The new government will maintain the good relationship
that Italy has always had with Libya,” Romani said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Davis  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net  