-- 
Eni Rises as Libyan Rebel Gains Spur Energy, Italy Shares

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-08-22T16:24:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/eni-gains-as-libyan-rebel-advance-spurs-italian-energy-shares.html
Shares of  Eni SpA (ENI) , the biggest
foreign investor in Libya,  Ansaldo STS SpA (STS)  and  Total SA (FP)  gained
as rebels advanced in Tripoli, raising prospects for an end of
the war that disrupted business in the North African country.  Rome-based Eni jumped as much as 9.5 percent, the most in
almost three years, before closing up 6.3 percent to 13.27
euros. Eni, the biggest oil producer in Libya, was forced to
virtually halt production there, leading to a 14 percent drop in
second-quarter net income.  “This is good news for Eni but to be reassured we’ll need
to know what plans the rebels have and whether they can quickly
pacify and manage the country,” said Massimiliano Romano, head
of research at brokerage Concentric Italy in Milan. “Between
that and getting production going again I think it will take
some time before the companies are making money in Libya
again.”  Libya has Africa’s biggest proven oil reserves and has
attracted investment from some of the world’s largest energy
companies. Total added 2.3 percent, and  OMV AG (OMV)  of Austria gained
5.1 percent. Repsol SA, which has been present in Libya since
1970 and gets about 4 percent of its output from the country,
added 2.6 percent.  Italy’s benchmark FTSE MIB Index advanced 1.8 percent to
14,861.64.  Eni had committed to invest $25 billion over the next
decade in Libya, where it’s had a presence since 1959, a decade
before the military coup that brought  Muammar Qaddafi  to power.  Italian Investments  Italian companies had been increasing their investments in
Libya after Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  signed a
“friendship” treaty with Qaddafi in 2009. The accord included
a pledge of $5 billion of infrastructure investment in Libya to
be led by Italian companies as compensation for Italy’s 30-year
occupation of the country that ended with Mussolini’s defeat in
the Second World War.  Among non-energy companies, Ansaldo STS, an Italian train
systems provider, was the biggest gainer. Ansaldo, which has a
railway technology contract with Libya, added 5 percent to 5.955
euros, the largest one-day advance since November 2010.  Qaddafi also invested in Italy. Libya’s central bank and
national wealth funds now own 7.2 percent of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
Italy’s biggest bank, and 2 percent of  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , the
defense contractor that owns Ansaldo. Libya also owns 7.5
percent of  Juventus Football Club SpA (JUVE) , the division A soccer
team controlled by the Agnelli family that founded Fiat SpA.  An end of hostilities won’t bring an immediate restart of
oil production as many wells may have to be re-drilled after
emergency closure procedures.  It will take about a year to get full oil production back
up in Libya and about two to three months to restore full gas
flows, Eni’s head of Exploration and Production Claudio Descalzi
told analysts during a July 29 conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  