-- 
Merkel Never Holding Hands With Sarkozy Betrays Europe’s Crisis

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 
2011-08-22T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/merkel-never-holding-hands-with-sarkozy-betrays-european-leadership-crisis.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  have never held hands as
 Helmut Kohl  and  Francois Mitterrand  once did at a World War I
battlefield. Merkel worries they don’t even talk enough.  After no fewer than seven one-on-one meetings the past 18
months -- in addition to parleys at summits -- the leaders of
the biggest European economies have yet to hit on an effective
solution to the crisis stalking the euro, Fredrik Erixon, head
of the European Centre for International Political Economy in
Brussels, said in an interview.  “Poor relations between Merkel and Sarkozy are one of the
big problems of dealing with the debt crisis because it’s up to
European Union leaders to handle this,” Erixon said. “It’s not
a personal relationship that can deliver grand things because
the trust isn’t there.”  Their response last week to investor pleas for a new
approach -- such as backing euro-area bonds or a bulked-up
bailout fund -- highlighted a lack of leadership in  Europe , say
investors and analysts. Their joint statement after a meeting in
Paris Aug. 16 deepened a slide in global stocks as they rejected
collective borrowing and emphasized the need for responsible
budgeting. The cost of insuring European bank debt rose to a
record yesterday and has exceeded the 2009 peak in the wake of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse.  They were “as far away from reality as they ever have been
throughout the year-long European sovereign debt crisis,”
 Howard Wheeldon , senior strategist in  London  at the brokerage
BGC Partners, wrote in an Aug. 17 note to investors.  ‘Absolute Determination’  The possibility some economists predict of a euro breakup -
- at odds with what Sarkozy on Aug. 16 called his and Merkel’s
“absolute determination” to defend the single currency --
would undo the inheritance of their groundbreaking predecessors.  Merkel, 57, and Sarkozy, 56, are the first leaders of their
countries born after World War II, the last of three Franco-
German wars between 1870 and 1945.  “There’s a real generational shift with Merkel and Sarkozy
and their approach to the EU,”  Jan Techau , director of the
Brussels-based European center of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace, said in an interview. “They didn’t
experience the war.”  Former German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, 92, born before
the Treaty of Versailles was signed in 1919, joined with French
President  Valery Giscard  d’Estaing, 85, to set up the European
Monetary System and the forerunner of the Group of Eight
summits. The 1970s were the “golden age of Franco-German
relations,” Giscard said in a 2009  essay .  Kohl’s Vow  Kohl, 81, who as chancellor from 1982 to 1998 oversaw
German reunification and was an architect of Europe’s economic
and monetary union, served as a 12-year-old boy in a school
brigade that cleared rubble after allied air raids on Nazi
 Germany  and was present as bodies were removed, according to the
first volume of his memoirs, “Erinnerungen, 1930-1982.”  Throughout his career Kohl said European integration is
above all about making war in Europe impossible. In a 2010 Bild
newspaper  interview , Kohl said “there’s no alternative to
Europe, especially in the question of war and peace.”  Mitterrand, who died in 1996, was captured by the Germans
during World War II. He later escaped and worked with the French
resistance against Nazi occupation.  “For much of the history of the European Union, the
alliance between Germany and France was the main motor for
integration,” Katinka Barysch, deputy director of the London-
based Centre for European Reform, said in a  study  published last
year. “The euro crisis will make it harder to paper over
Germany and  France ’s differing interests and ideas about the
future of the EU.”  Discord  To be sure, discord intruded over the decades as France
opposed policies that risked opening the way for Germany to re-
assert a dominant role. Mitterrand initially resisted German
reunification sought by Kohl and, later,  Jacques Chirac  rebuffed
 Gerhard Schroeder  as Germany sought greater EU voting power.  To establish a functioning relationship, Merkel and Sarkozy
had to overcome contrasting personalities, their advisers have
said. Their styles were “like fire and water,” according to a
U.S. diplomatic memo published by Wikileaks.  Merkel, who grew up in Communist East Germany and has
degrees in physics and quantum chemistry, emphasizes caution and
a deliberate approach to problem solving. “I am a person who
only draws conclusions after having seen and analyzed results,”
Merkel told reporters May 10. “Nothing will change me on
this.”  Doesn’t Know France  A German official told reporters at a Group of Eight summit
May 26 in Deauville, France, that there’s insufficient
communication between Merkel and Sarkozy. She may not know
France well enough and the lesson of differences on issues such
as  Libya  is that the two must improve communication, the
official said.  In contrast, Sarkozy, a lawyer and one of two presidents in
the past 30 years who didn’t attend France’s elite Ecole
Nationale d’Administration -- a training ground for government
leaders -- deploys “hyper-activism on every front,” according
to a U.S.  cable  on him dated Dec. 14, 2007, quoting an unnamed
European diplomat. “Just being in a room with Sarkozy is enough
to make anyone’s stress levels increase,” it said.  The euro crisis has put Sarkozy in the role of bridge
builder to Merkel, who has confronted resistance among EU
counterparts, her voters and the ruling coalition to her
approach to bailouts.  He even had to overcome her opposition to holding a summit
meeting of euro-area leaders last month to counter contagion
that was lapping at Italy and  Spain . The meeting resulted in an
overhaul of the 440 billion-euro ($635 billion)  European
Stability Facility , though no new financial commitments.  Sarkozy’s Campaigns  Along the way, Sarkozy has convinced the German leader to
drop demands for automatic sanctions on nations that break EU
deficit rules. Two months ago, he got Merkel to retreat from
calls for bondholders to be forced to shoulder part of the Greek
rescue. After a June 17 meeting with Sarkozy in Berlin, Merkel
told reporters such participation would be “on a voluntary
basis,” preventing a collision with the  European Central Bank .  Both leaders say that their approach aimed at medium- and
long-term results is the way to deal with the crisis.  Speaking to reporters after the Aug. 16 Paris talks, Merkel
said only incremental moves will restore confidence in the euro.
“I don’t think we can solve the problem with a single big
bang.”  When Kohl and Mitterrand clasped hands at a rain-swept
World War I cemetery at France’s  Verdun battlefield  in 1984,
where more than 300,000 French and German troops were killed in
1916, the image went around the world. The  photo  symbolized the
Franco-German reconciliation that powered European integration.  “What Europe needs now is more leadership like we had
under Kohl and Mitterrand or Schmidt and Giscard,” Techau said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  