-- 
Dollar, Yen, Swiss Franc Fall After Manufacturing Data Exceeds Forecasts

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-08-23T21:14:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/euro-holds-decline-versus-dollar-before-manufacturing-confidence-reports.html
The dollar fell versus 15 of its 16
most-traded peers as bets that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may signal further steps to spur the economy, including
debt buys under quantitative easing, damped refuge demand.  The  New Zealand  and Australian dollars led gains versus the
greenback after data showed manufacturing from China to Europe
exceeded economists’ forecasts and before Bernanke’s speech Aug.
26 in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. The euro rose the most against the
dollar in a week as stocks rallied. The franc fell versus the
dollar and the yen slid against the euro as risk appetite rose.  “It felt like a little bit of a risk-on day right from the
get-go, and the dollar has been down against everything,” said
 Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in  New York . “The rising risk of
quantitative easing measures from the Fed has certainly been
something that is weighing on the dollar.”  The U.S. currency depreciated 0.6 percent to $1.4442 per
euro at 5 p.m. in New York, after earlier weakening as much as 1
percent in the biggest intraday decline since Aug. 15. It fell
0.2 percent to 76.66 yen. Europe’s 17-nation currency was up 0.4
percent to 110.70 yen and touched 111.10 yen, the highest since
Aug. 10. The euro gained 0.8 percent to 1.1443 francs, and the
greenback rose 0.3 percent to 79.23 Swiss centimes.  New Zealand’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, advanced 1.4
percent to 83.60 U.S. cents, and  Australia ’s dollar gained 1.1
percent to $1.0526.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 3.4 percent, and
the MSCI World Index of equities added 2.3 percent.  Biggest Loser  The dollar has lost the most this year against a basket of
its nine developed-nation peers, dropping 6.7 percent, Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Currency Indexes show. The franc has gained
12 percent in the biggest increase, and  Japan ’s currency has
fallen 0.6 percent.  The dollar may weaken to about $1.47 per euro before
Bernanke’s speech at the Kansas City Fed’s annual economic
conference in  Jackson Hole , said  Geoff Kendrick , head of
European currency strategy at Nomura International Plc in
 London . He predicted the central bank will make no additional
debt purchases under quantitative easing.  At last year’s conference, Bernanke foreshadowed a second
round of quantitative easing. The Fed bought $600 billion of
Treasuries from November through June.  The Fed chief told Congress last month the central bank’s
options to bolster the economy include increasing the average
maturity of its bond portfolio and cutting the  interest rate  on
excess reserves, as well as buying additional debt and keeping
rates low.  ‘Whole Market’ Waiting  “The whole market is just waiting for the Jackson Hole
meeting,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in New York. “We might not have
seen the last of the  Federal Reserve  putting more liquidity in
the market.”  Demand for higher-yielding assets rose as a preliminary
gauge of Chinese manufacturing in August slipped to 49.8,
according to the Purchasing Managers’ Index reported by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today. The figure was better
than the “rumored” number of 45 and may provide some relief to
the market, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Ting Lu in  Hong Kong 
said. A number below 50 shows contraction.  Germany ’s manufacturing purchasing managers’ index was 52
in August, exceeding the 50.6 median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey, Markit Economics said separately today. A composite
index of euro-area purchasing managers in services and
manufacturing also exceeded estimates.  ‘Being Buoyed’  Investment flows into the Norwegian krone, Sweden’s krona
and the euro have increased this week, according to Bank of New
York Mellon Corp.’s iFlow data, while investors have continued
to sell dollars and francs.  “Investor sentiment is being buoyed by the latest data
showing better-than-expected readings on manufacturing activity
in  China  and the euro zone,”  Samarjit Shankar , a managing
director for the foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at BNYMellon,
the world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $26 trillion
in assets under administration, wrote in a note to clients.  The Norwegian currency gained 0.5 percent today to 5.4266
versus the dollar, and Sweden’s krona rose 0.9 percent to 6.3152
to the greenback.  Earlier gains by the euro were tempered after an industry
report showed German investor confidence slumped in August. The
ZEW Center for European Economic Research said its index of
investor and analyst expectations fell to minus 37.6 from minus
15.1 in July. A Bloomberg survey forecast a decline to minus 26.  The euro has traded in an 8-cent range against the dollar
since May as it benefited from political wrangling in the U.S.
and  Europe  struggled to tame its sovereign-debt crisis.  More on Horizon  “The $1.45 to $1.4520 area will be an area of resistance
which the euro will need to break if it’s going to try for
anything better than that,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on
the corporate currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in New
York. “There so much more on the horizon with regard to
European debt, and it’s going to take a long time to manifest
itself.” Resistance is an area on a chart where sell orders may
be clustered.  The yen also fell after Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
said he’s examining how much speculative trading is influencing
the currency, which surged to a post-World War II record of
75.95 per dollar on Aug. 19. Measures to address the yen may be
needed in the government’s budget, Noda added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  