-- 
Euro Declines as Stocks Fluctuate; Yen Tumbles on Concern Japan Will Act

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-08-22T19:09:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/euro-declines-as-stocks-pare-gains-yen-tumbles-on-concern-japan-will-act.html
The euro fell against the majority
of its most-traded counterparts, erasing earlier advances, as
stocks fluctuated, reducing demand for higher-yielding assets.  The yen slid from almost its postwar record high versus the
dollar after Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said he’s
ready to take decisive action to stem its strength. The dollar
fell earlier amid bets Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
will signal at an Aug. 26 conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming ,
the Fed will take further steps to boost the  U.S. economy .  “Everyone is focusing on equities and taking their cues
from that,” said Andrew Cox, a New-York based currency
strategist at Citigroup Inc. “The euro has traded in a very
tight range, and we don’t see a catalyst for that to change, at
least before Friday.”  Europe’s 17-nation currency slipped 0.2 percent to $1.4374
at 3:05 p.m. in New York, from $1.4397 on Aug. 19. It earlier
appreciated as much as 0.3 percent. The yen fell 0.3 percent to
76.74 per dollar, after reaching a post-World War II high of
75.95 Aug. 19. The Japanese currency declined 0.1 percent to
110.31 per euro.  Switzerland ’s franc fell versus most major counterparts on
speculation the country’s central bank will take move further to
curb its gains. New Zealand’s dollar and Sweden’s krona gained
against the euro, yen and franc.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up 0.2 percent after
rising as much as 2 percent and falling 0.2 percent.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major trade
partners, rose 0.1 percent to 74.072, from 74.009 on Aug. 19.  Foreshadowed Purchases  Bernanke’s scheduled appearance at the Kansas City Fed’s
annual economic conference in Jackson Hole comes as U.S.
manufacturing weakens, consumer confidence tumbles and the
 unemployment rate  holds above 9 percent.  At last year’s event, he foreshadowed a second round of
asset purchases under quantitative easing to improve the
economy. The central bank bought $600 billion in Treasuries from
November through June.  “Most of the focus today and probably this week is on what
Bernanke will and won’t say on Friday,” said  Camilla Sutton , a
Bank of Nova Scotia currency strategist in Toronto. “Bernanke
is likely to point to all the tools they have in their toolbox.
If he does that, it might prove negative for the  U.S. dollar .”  The euro also declined as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
reiterated her opposition to issuing euro-area bonds as a way to
help solve  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, saying yesterday she
won’t let financial markets dictate policy.  Dollar Premium  Investor calls for euro bonds intensified last week as
concern about the debt crisis and a slowing global economy drove
down European stocks. The Stoxx Europe 600 dropped to 223.13 on
Aug. 19, the least since July 2009.  The premium European banks pay to borrow in dollars through
the swaps market increased in a sign lenders may be facing
mounting pressure to raise funds in the U.S. currency. It last
decreased on Aug. 15.  The cost of converting euro-based payments into dollars, as
measured by the one-year cross-currency basis swap, fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 49.5 basis points
below the euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor, indicating a
higher premium to buy the greenback. Basis swaps allow investors
to borrow in one currency and simultaneously lend in another.  Japan ’s Noda told reporters in  Tokyo  today he’s become
“more concerned about the worsening of the yen’s one-sided
movements.” The government will take “bold actions if
necessary and won’t rule out any possible options,” he said.  ‘Lack of Comfort’  Japan last intervened in the  currency market , selling yen
in an effort to halt its climb, on Aug. 4. That drove the
currency down as much as 4.1 percent against the greenback. It
has since appreciated 2.8 percent.  “We’ve had further comments by Noda and other Japanese
officials indicating a lack of comfort with yen strength,” said
 Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in  New York  at Bank
of New York Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank,
with more than $26 trillion in assets under administration.
“Renewed jawboning has contributed to yen weakness.”  The franc weakened amid speculation the  Swiss National Bank 
will introduce new measures to damp demand for the nation’s
currency. The SNB cut borrowing costs to zero earlier this
month, increased bank sight deposits almost sevenfold and left
the door open for additional measures.  Franc’s Decline  The franc declined 0.5 percent to 1.1355 per euro and was
0.6 percent weaker at 79.01 centimes per dollar.  Most Swiss support intervention by their central bank to
curb gains in the franc, the newspaper  SonntagsZeitung  reported
yesterday. The newspaper also said, without naming sources, the
Swiss Cabinet expects the SNB to set an exchange-rate target of
at least 1.2 francs per euro.  SNB spokesman Walter Meier declined to comment on whether
the central bank had intervened.  The franc advanced 10 percent developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen rose
4.9 percent and the dollar is down 2.1 percent.  The franc and yen tend to strengthen during periods of
financial turmoil because their export-reliant economies don’t
need foreign capital to balance current accounts, the broadest
measure of trade.  New Zealand ’s dollar strengthened 0.9 percent to 82.58 U.S.
cents, and the Swedish krona appreciated 0.4 percent to 6.3630
per U.S. dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  