-- 
Euro-Bonds, Nuclear Regulations, CFTC, Moodys-S&P MBS Ratings: Compliance

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-22T11:29:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/euro-bonds-nuclear-regulations-cftc-moodys-s-p-mbs-ratings-compliance.html
European Union regulators may push
for joint bond sales by euro-area nations to help contain the
debt crisis, putting pressure on Germany to drop its opposition.  The European Commission said it may present draft
legislation on euro bonds when completing a report on the
feasibility of common debt sales. The commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm in Brussels, earlier this year opposed such a
step because of German-led objections.  “The report will, if appropriate, be accompanied by
legislative proposals,” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner Olli Rehn said in a written response to a European
Parliament question. “These euro securities would aim to
strengthen fiscal discipline and increase stability in the euro
area through markets.” He gave no timetable for either the
report or any related draft law.  The idea of jointly sold bonds by the euro area’s 17
nations remains alive because unprecedented bailouts by
governments and the European Central Bank have failed to stamp
out debt concerns that began in Greece almost two years ago and
rattled markets in AAA rated France last week.  “The idea will not fly politically,”  Daniel Gros ,
director of the Centre for European Policy Studies in Brussels,
said by telephone. “Why should taxpayers in northern Europe pay
for the liabilities of countries in the south? There are also
serious economic problems with such a system.”  Supporters of euro bonds include southern nations such as
Greece and Italy, federalist-leaning Luxembourg and Belgium and
leading members of the 27-nation EU Parliament.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Merkel Opposes ‘Collectivization’ in Fight Against Euro Bonds  Germany  Chancellor Angela Merkel  reinforced her opposition
to joint euro-area bonds, saying that a “collectivization” of
debt would leave the bloc’s members worse off and setting up a
conflict with European Union officials.  Merkel, speaking to members of her Christian Democratic
Union in the western state of Lower Saxony on Aug. 19,
reiterated her view that euro bonds won’t help bring fiscal
discipline to profligate euro states and that it’s a political
proposal.  “Now comes the answer from the left: euro bonds -- a
collectivization of debt, everything in one pot,” Merkel said
in the city of Hameln. “We don’t want that.”  European Union officials said on Aug. 19 that regulators
may push for joint bond sales by euro-area nations to help
contain the debt crisis that started last year in Greece.  Germany, Europe’s largest economy, would face extra costs
of 47 billion euros ($67.6 billion) a year through the alignment
of  interest rates  with nations that pay more to borrow, the
country’s Ifo institute said on Aug. 17.  “If the debt all goes into the one pot, then you have
difficulty figuring out where it all comes from,” Merkel said.
Spreading risk through the euro area would place Germany on a
“slippery slope” where “in the best case” it would be on par
with the European average, or, “we all get worse together.”  Instead, a European framework needs to be developed in
which a regulating body must have a “right to intervene” in
order to bring fiscal discipline to failing budgets, she said.  NRC Staff Directed to Set Priorities for Japan Safety Proposals  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission directed its staff
to choose which task-force safety proposals should be adopted in
the near term in response to the Japan crisis, resolving a
dispute over how to proceed.  Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  had pressed the commission to act
within 90 days on each of 12 recommendations the task force
offered in a July report. Several commissioners led by William
Ostendorff urged more time to review the proposals.  The NRC panel was charged with developing safety steps
after an earthquake and tsunami in March crippled Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, the worst nuclear accident
since Chernobyl in 1986.  A majority of the five-member commission balked at Jaczko’s
plan and Ostendorff said on July 28 he had “significant
reservations” about swift action, echoing the positions of
Commissioners William Magwood and Kristine Svinicki.  Under the plan, the NRC staff has until Sept. 9 to outline
which recommendations the commission should implement “without
unnecessary delay,” according to an Aug. 19 statement.  The task force also recommended requiring plant owners to
have at least eight hours of backup power at reactors, provide
emergency systems to spray water into pools holding spent fuel
and install more reliable venting for reactors similar to those
that failed in Japan in March.  U.S. Muni-Finance Advisers Face Pay-to-Play Curb in New Rule  Municipal financial advisers in the U.S. would be barred
from making political donations just to win business under a
proposal from the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.  The new rule would curb advisers from doing business with
state or local governmental bodies, including pensions, within
two years of giving to officials with the authority to hire
them, the board said Aug 19. It has asked the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission to approve the proposal.  Similar rules on so-called pay-to-play practices already
apply to banks that underwrite bonds in the $2.9 trillion
municipal securities market. The proposal is among regulations
being applied to businesses that advise public officials since
passage of the Dodd-Frank financial-services overhaul last year.
That law expanded the board’s authority to include advisers.  “Pay-to-play activities have no place in municipal
finance, and can distort and undermine fairness in the process
by which government business is awarded,” the board’s executive
director, Lynnette Kelly Hotchkiss, said in a statement. The
proposal “will help reduce the undue influence of political
contributions in the selection of municipal advisers.”  An exception lets advisers give as much as $250 in each
election cycle to candidates for whom they can vote. A similar
rule applies to bankers.  CFTC Trading Data Show Need for Speculation Curbs, Sanders Says  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  data showing oil-
market speculation by firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and Morgan Stanley as prices spiked in 2008 demonstrate the need
for position limits, U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders said in a
statement.  Sanders, a Vermont Independent who has proposed legislation
to curb speculation, released the statement Aug. 19, posting
data on  his website  showing bullish and bearish bets by 300
firms including investment banks and hedge funds. A  second
document  lists aggregate positions in futures and over-the-
counter swaps markets for non-commercial trading firms that
would have exceeded position limits or accountability levels in
commodities such as oil, gold and cotton.  “This report clearly shows that in the summer of 2008 when
gas prices spiked to more than $4 a gallon, Goldman Sachs,
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , and other speculators on Wall Street dominated
the crude oil futures market causing tremendous damage to the
entire economy,” Sanders said in the statement.  The Dodd-Frank Act, the financial-regulation overhaul
enacted last year, requires the CFTC to implement position
limits. The CFTC released a proposal in January, and Chairman
 Gary Gensler  said the agency could schedule a meeting to
complete the regulation in September or October.  Compliance Action  Moody’s, S&P Mortgage-Bond Ratings Said to Face U.S. Probe  The U.S.  Justice Department  is probing Moody’s Investors
Service and Standard & Poor’s over ratings of mortgage-backed
securities, according to three former employees who said they
were interviewed by investigators.  Washington-based lawyers from the Justice Department spoke
to former employees as recently as last month about whether the
companies raised their grades for the complex investments in
order to win business, said the former employees, who asked for
anonymity because the investigation is ongoing. The inquiry is a
civil matter, two of them said.  The probe is the latest of dozens of government
investigations and investor lawsuits targeting Moody’s and S&P,
a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos., all based in  New York , over the top
grades they assigned to bonds backed by subprime mortgages. Even
as the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission called them “key
enablers of the financial meltdown,” the raters avoided legal
liability, according to Benchmark Co.’s  Edward Atorino .  The Justice Department has been contacting analysts to
discuss mortgage-bond ratings since 2009, the former employees
said. In May, Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who
chairs the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, referred
the results of a probe into mortgage bonds, credit ratings and
the financial crisis to the agency.  S&P, Moody’s and Fitch Ratings engaged in a “race to the
bottom” to assign top grades to mortgage-backed securities at
the request of the banks that paid them, Levin’s panel said in
an April report. The inflated ratings helped fuel the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression, which caused $2.1
trillion in losses and writedowns at the world’s biggest
financial institutions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  For more, click here.  SEC’s Document Purging Wasn’t Authorized, Archives Agency Says  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission didn’t have
authority to dispose of investigation documents the agency had
been routinely purging since 1993, the  National Archives and
Records Administration  said.  NARA, the Washington-based agency that oversees federal
record-keeping, opened an investigation last year after an SEC
employee claimed the agency was illegally destroying files
pertaining to so-called matters under inquiry, NARA said in an
Aug. 18 statement. The SEC, which NARA said has since halted the
practice, destroyed the documents without approval, according to
the statement.  “While the National Archives is satisfied that the
destruction has stopped, NARA remains concerned that the SEC has
been slow in creating records schedules for review and
approval,” NARA said. The inquiry will continue until archives
authorities have approved a plan for treating MUI documents,
Paul Wester, chief records officer for the U.S., said in a
separate Aug. 1 letter to an SEC official.  The allegations originated with Darcy Flynn, a 13-year SEC
veteran, who claimed that the SEC illegally purged more than
9,000 documents from initial probes that never became formal
investigations. Senator Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican,
this week asked SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  to respond to Flynn’s
claims by the end of this month.  “We maintain records of our inquiries and they are
available to investigators across the agency,”  John Nester , an
SEC spokesman, said in a statement. “As NARA notes, it works
with federal agencies on a regular basis to resolve allegations
and we are committed to that process.”  Western Digital Gets EU Antitrust Complaint on Hitachi Deal  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  said it received an antitrust
complaint from European Union regulators over its purchase of
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ’s storage business.  “The statement of objections sets out the European
Commission’s preliminary assessment regarding the combination”
and “its potential effects on competition,” Western Digital
said in an Aug. 19 regulatory filing. It didn’t give details of
the EU’s complaint.  The commission in May opened in-depth probes into Western
Digital’s transaction as well as  Seagate Technology Plc (STX) ’s
separate plan to buy Samsung Electronics Co.’s computer hard-
disk drive operations. Seagate said Aug. 19 that it doesn’t
expect to get a similar warning for its deal, which was formally
notified to EU regulators for clearance a day earlier.  The two transactions would reduce the number of large
manufacturers of mechanical hard-disk drives for computers to
three from five, leaving Western Digital with 50 percent of the
market, Seagate with 40 percent and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  with around 10
percent, according to researcher IHS Inc.’s iSuppli.  The hard-drive industry “has already experienced
significant consolidation and the proposed acquisitions will
further reduce competition,”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s
antitrust chief, said when he announced the in-depth probes.  U.S. regulators are also examining both deals. Western
Digital has said it and Hitachi received a second information
request from the Federal Trade Commission in April that extended
the antitrust review of the deal.  Seagate received a second request from the FTC on May 20.
The company said in a filing it was “working cooperatively with
the FTC as it reviews the proposed transaction.”  Hacking Detective Arrested on Leaks as Probe Nets 14th Suspect  A London police detective was arrested for leaking
information about the probe into phone hacking at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
News of the World tabloid, while the department also said it
detained a 14th suspect in that investigation.  Dan Evans, a former reporter at the News of the World, is
the 35-year-old man police said they arrested Aug. 19 on
suspicion of intercepting voice mails, according to a person
familiar with the situation.  The 51-year-old detective was arrested at work on Aug. 18
for misconduct related to unauthorized disclosure of information
about the phone-hacking investigation, known as Operation
Weeting, police said in a statement. He was suspended from duty.  “I made it very clear when I took on this investigation
the need for operational and information security,” said Sue
Aker, the Metropolitan Police Deputy Assistant Commissioner in
charge of the police investigation into phone hacking. “It is
hugely disappointing that this may not have been adhered to.”  Both men have been released on bail, the police said.  Earlier this year the Met police renewed their probe into
claims journalists and investigators at News Corp.’s now defunct
News of the World accessed private voice mails to get stories
after information from civil lawsuits indicated the practice
went beyond a reporter and private investigator jailed in 2007.  FAA Imposes Stricter Rules for Flights in Icing Conditions  Commuter-airline pilots must take additional steps to
combat ice buildup on wings under rules released Aug. 19 by the
U.S. Federal Aviation Administration.  Prompted by a series of incidents, the FAA will require
airlines flying planes weighing less than 60,000 pounds to
install sensors that detect ice and warn pilots, or tell their
pilots to automatically switch on anti-icing equipment sooner
than has been the case.  The FAA said in the  rule , which takes effect in 60 days,
that there has been a series of cases in which pilots didn’t
realize ice was forming on a plane’s wings and didn’t activate
anti-icing equipment. Even microscopic layers of ice crystals
can destroy wings’ ability to keep a plane aloft.  “This rule is meant to prevent that from happening again
by giving flightcrews a clear means of knowing when to activate
the airframe ice protection system,” the FAA said.  The rule will cost airlines $12.7 million while saving them
$27.2 million by preventing crashes and deaths, the agency said.  Sport Chalet Is Latest U.S. Stock Halted by Circuit Breakers  Sport Chalet Inc. (SPCHB)  is the latest U.S. stock halted by
circuit breakers implemented in June 2010.  The curbs were created after the 20-minute rout on May 6,
2010, erased $862 billion from the value of U.S. shares before
prices rebounded. New rules proposed by exchanges on April 5,
2011, would shift the market to a limit-up/limit-down system
that prevents shares from moving more than a certain amount.  Courts  Lawyer Tied to Galleon Insider Case Gets Three-Year Sentence  Jason Goldfarb, a New York attorney who pleaded guilty to
passing inside information from two other lawyers to ex-Galleon
Group LLC trader Zvi Goffer, was sentenced to three years in
prison.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan made the ruling at an
Aug. 19 hearing in Manhattan federal court. Federal sentencing
guidelines, which aren’t binding on judges, called for a term of
37 to 46 months. Prosecutors from the office of U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara said Goldfarb, of Brooklyn, New York, deserved a
term at the high end of that range.  “Goldfarb’s crimes were particularly egregious because of
his status as an attorney,” the U.S. said in court papers filed
Aug. 12. “While working as an attorney obligated to protect
client confidences, Goldfarb engaged in a scheme to
misappropriate information protected by the attorney-client
privilege in order to enrich himself.”  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Smith Barney Adviser Shah Gets 38 Months for Fraud  Sanjeev Jayant Kumar Shah, a former financial adviser at
Smith Barney, was sentenced to 38 months in prison for stealing
$3.25 million from one client in a bid cover up a failed trade
he made for another.  Shah took the money from Belize Bank to cover heavy margin
calls after a calculation error on a set of complicated foreign-
exchange trades for Concorde Bank resulted in losses, according
to a sentencing memorandum. Shah’s lawyer, Ed Little, said he
panicked, seeking to avoid admitting his mistake to Concorde
Bank and to Smith Barney. Shah pleaded guilty in November.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley sentenced Shah to less
than the 78-to-97 months suggested by federal sentencing
guidelines, noting that Shah used $2 million of his own and his
family’s funds to meet the margin calls. Pauley also agreed with
Shah’s lawyer that he could easily have fled to Kenya where his
family lives to avoid prosecution.  “He made a very tragic mistake and then he compounded it,
time and time again, through any number of fraudulent acts, to
conceal that mistake,” Pauley said.  The case is U.S. v. Shah, 10-cr-1169, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Mets Owners Say Madoff Trustee Lacks Proof They Knew of Fraud  A $1 billion lawsuit by the trustee liquidating Bernard
Madoff’s firm against the owners of the New York Mets should be
dismissed, a lawyer for the baseball team’s owners told a
federal judge.  Karen Wagner, an attorney for owners Fred Wilpon and Saul
Katz, argued to U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff that the trustee,
New York lawyer Irving Picard, has failed to show evidence they
ignored red flags that should have alerted them to Madoff’s
fraud.  Picard’s case “doesn’t plead anything amounting to willful
blindness,” Wagner said in a hearing in Manhattan on Friday.  The trustee, New York lawyer Irving Picard, claims Wilpon
and Katz must turn over the $300 million in profits for the
benefit of Madoff victims who lost more than they gained in the
fraud. Picard claims they can’t keep the $700 million principal
because they “turned a blind eye” to concerns Madoff was
running a fraudulent scheme.  David Sheehan, a lawyer representing Picard, argued in the
hearing that he has to show only that Wilpon and Katz had
information that should have prompted them to question Madoff
about his operations.  Sheehan said the trustee wants the case heard by a jury if
it goes to trial. Rakoff said he will rule on the request by the
end of September. He scheduled a two-week trial to begin March 5
if he doesn’t dismiss the suit. Rakoff said he will permit the
parties to go forward with the exchange of evidence in the case.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Fed’s Pianalto Says Weak Growth Warrants Near-Zero Rates  Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland President Sandra Pianalto
speaks about the state of the U.S. economy and her support for
the central bank’s pledge to hold interest rates near zero until
mid-2013.  Pianalto, speaking at an event in Columbus, Ohio, also
discusses community banking in the U.S. and the housing and
labor markets. To listen to the report, click here.  Comings and Goings  Netherlands Names De Jong to Central Bank’s Supervisory Board  Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager named Andre de
Jong, a former finance ministry official, to the central bank’s
supervisory board. The ministry commented Aug. 19 in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 