-- 
Euro Weakens Before Bernanke Speech; Yen Falls on Concern Japan Will Act

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-08-22T21:14:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/euro-weakens-before-bernanke-speech-yen-falls-on-concern-japan-will-act.html
The euro weakened against the dollar
as  currency-market  traders moved to protect themselves from the
risk that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will signal
additional steps to bolster the  U.S. economy .  The yen slid from almost its postwar record high versus the
dollar after Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said he’s
ready to take action to stem its strength. Bernanke, who will
speak Aug. 26 in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, told Congress last month
the Fed’s options include increasing the average maturity of its
bond portfolio and cutting the interest rate on excess reserves
as well as buying additional debt and keeping rates low.  “There’s such a concern about the U.S. economy, and
there’s a concern over what Chairman Bernanke will say,” said
 Jessica Hoversen , a New York-based analyst at the futures broker
MF Global Holdings Ltd. “Does he deem it necessary to increase
stimulus? People are very cautious to change positions.”  Europe’s 17-nation currency slipped 0.3 percent to $1.4358
at 5 p.m. in  New York , from $1.4397 on Aug. 19. It earlier
appreciated as much as 0.3 percent. The yen fell 0.3 percent to
76.79 per dollar, after reaching a post-World War II high of
75.95 Aug. 19. The Japanese currency was little changed at
110.26 per euro.  The currencies of commodity-exporting countries including
New Zealand and Norway gained as commodities rose. The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials added 0.7 percent
and oil rallied 2.3 percent to $84.12 a barrel in New York.  ‘Operation Twist’  The Fed may sell shorter-term securities held in its
portfolio and buy longer-term debt to help stimulate the
economy, Ira Jersey, an  interest-rate  strategist in New York at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said today in an interview on
“Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . The idea has been called
“operation twist” after a similar effort in the 1960s.  The move wouldn’t expand the Fed’s balance sheet, as
additional asset purchases would. The central bank bought $2.35
trillion in debt in two rounds of purchases in a strategy called
quantitative easing.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major trade
partners, lost 3.2 percent in the second round, when the Fed
bought $600 billion in Treasuries from November through June.  Bernanke’s scheduled appearance at the Kansas City Fed’s
annual economic conference in  Jackson Hole  comes as U.S.
manufacturing weakens, consumer confidence tumbles and the
 unemployment rate  holds above 9 percent. He foreshadowed the
last round of Treasury purchases at last year’s event.  Focus on Bernanke  “Most of the focus today and probably this week is on what
Bernanke will and won’t say on Friday,” said  Camilla Sutton , a
Bank of Nova Scotia currency strategist in Toronto. “Bernanke
is likely to point to all the tools they have in their toolbox.
If he does that, it might prove negative for the  U.S. dollar .”  The Dollar Index increased 0.2 percent today to 74.141,
from 74.009 on Aug. 19.  The euro also declined as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
reiterated her opposition to issuing euro-area bonds as a way to
help solve  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, saying yesterday she
won’t let financial markets dictate policy.
Investor calls for euro bonds intensified last week as concern
about the debt crisis and a slowing global economy drove down
European stocks. The Stoxx Europe 600 dropped to 223.13 on Aug.
19, the least since July 2009.  The premium European banks pay to borrow in dollars through
the swaps market increased in a sign lenders may be facing
mounting pressure to raise funds in the U.S. currency. It last
decreased on Aug. 15.  Basis Swaps  The cost of converting euro-based payments into dollars, as
measured by the one-year cross-currency basis swap, fell 0.5
basis point to 49 basis points below the euro interbank offered
rate, or Euribor, indicating a higher premium to buy the
greenback. Basis swaps allow investors to borrow in one currency
and simultaneously lend in another.  Japan ’s Noda told reporters in  Tokyo  today he’s become
“more concerned about the worsening of the yen’s one-sided
movements.” The government will take “bold actions if
necessary and won’t rule out any possible options,” he said.  Japan last intervened in the currency market, selling yen
in an effort to halt its climb, on Aug. 4. That drove the
currency down as much as 4.1 percent against the greenback. It
has since appreciated 2.7 percent.  “We’ve had further comments by Noda and other Japanese
officials indicating a lack of comfort with yen strength,” said
 Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in New York at Bank
of New York Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank,
with more than $26 trillion in assets under administration.
“Renewed jawboning has contributed to yen weakness.”  Franc Drops  Switzerland’s franc weakened versus all of its 16 most-
traded peers amid speculation the  Swiss National Bank  will
introduce new measures to damp demand for the nation’s currency.
The SNB cut borrowing costs to zero earlier this month,
increased bank sight deposits almost sevenfold and left the door
open for additional measures.  The franc declined 0.4 percent to 1.1347 per euro and was
0.7 percent weaker at 79.02 centimes per dollar.  The Swiss currency advanced 10 percent over the past three
months in a basket of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen rose 4.9 percent
and the dollar was down 2.1 percent.  The franc and yen tend to strengthen during periods of
financial turmoil because their export-reliant economies don’t
need foreign capital to balance current accounts, the broadest
measure of trade.  New Zealand ’s dollar strengthened 0.7 percent to 82.42 U.S.
cents, and Norway’s krone added 0.2 percent to 5.4543 per
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  