-- 
European Failure to Solve Region’s Banking Crisis Returns to Haunt Markets

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-08-23T09:49:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/european-failure-to-solve-region-s-banking-crisis-returns-to-haunt-markets.html
Four years to the month since the
global credit crisis began, European lenders remain dependent on
central bank aid, plaguing markets and economies worldwide.  Emergency steps such as unlimited loans from the  European
Central Bank  are keeping many banks in Greece,  Portugal ,  Italy 
and  Spain  solvent and greasing the lending of others, while low
 interest rates  and debt-buying are containing borrowing costs.
Such aid is needed as concerns about slowing economic growth and
sovereign debt prompt banks to curb lending, stockpile dollars
and hoard cash in safe havens.  “I’m not sleeping at night,” said  Charles Wyplosz ,
director of the Geneva-based International Center for Money and
Banking Studies. “We have moved into a new phase of crisis.”  Central bankers rescued financial firms after the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 by providing limitless
funding of as long as a year. While they treated the symptom --
a lack of ready cash -- politicians, regulators and bankers in
Europe have proved unable to cure the root cause: some European
lenders are at growing risk of insolvency.  The tremors, the biggest since Lehman’s collapse, were
triggered by European governments’ continuing inability to stop
the sovereign debt crisis from spreading beyond  Greece , Portugal
and Ireland to Italy and Spain. Renewed signs of economic
weakness globally and the downgrading of  U.S. debt  by  Standard &
Poor’s  rekindled concern about the quality of all government
debt.  Bank Stocks Tumble  The signs of distress are widespread and mounting: Banks
deposited 128.7 billion euros ($186 billion) overnight with the
ECB yesterday, more than three times this year’s average, rather
than lend the money to other firms. Banks also borrowed 555
million euros from the Frankfurt-based ECB’s overnight marginal
lending facility, up from 90 million euros the day before.  European bank stocks have sunk 20 percent this month, led
by  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA.
Edinburgh-based RBS, Britain’s biggest government-controlled
lender, has tumbled 43 percent, and Paris-based Societe
Generale,  France ’s second-largest bank, dropped 39 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to buy bank bonds instead
of benchmark government debt surged to 302 basis points
yesterday, or 3.02 percentage points, the highest since July
2009, data compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch show. The
cost of insuring that debt against default surged to a record
today. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt
of 25 European banks and insurers rose to 252 basis points,
compared with 149 when Lehman collapsed.  Greek Default Concern  It was the specter of government debt turning toxic that
has revived the liquidity crisis policy makers had tried to stop
in 2008. As speculation grew that European banks would have to
write down their holdings of more governments’ debt after a
Greek default, lenders pulled funding to those banks that held
the most peripheral debt. It also raised concern European
governments would struggle to afford a further bail out of their
banks, because both the state and the lenders had failed to
reduce their borrowings since the onset of the crisis.  “The debt has been transferred from the banks to the
sovereign, but it hasn’t actually been eradicated,” said Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool.
“Until the sovereigns get their balance sheets in order, then
these concerns are going to remain.”  Funding markets have seized up as investors speculate that
sovereign debt writedowns are inevitable. Banks in the region
hold 98.2 billion euros of Greek sovereign debt, 317 billion
euros of Italian government debt and about 280 billion euros of
Spanish bonds, according to European Banking Authority data.  Euribor-OIS  The difference between the three-month euro interbank
offered rate, or Euribor, and the overnight indexed swap rate, a
measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to each other, was at 0.66
percentage point today, within 4 basis points of the widest
spread since May 2009.  “The central bank is the only clearer left to settle funds
between banks,” said  Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-income
strategy at  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  in  Frankfurt . “There is a mistrust
between banks in general, between regions and with dollar
providers overall.”  Overseas banks operating in the U.S. may have cut dollar
holdings by as much as $300 billion in the past four weeks as
European banks faced a squeeze on funding and sought dollars,
 Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency research at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  New York  said Aug. 18. Dollar assets declined
by about 38 percent to $550 billion in the period, he said.  ‘More Nervous’  “Banks are becoming more nervous about being exposed to
other banks as they hoard liquidity and become more suspicious
of other banks’ balance sheets,” Guillaume Tiberghien, analyst
at Exane  BNP Paribas (BNP) , wrote in a note to clients on Aug. 19.  By contrast, banks in the U.S. are “flush” with
liquidity, loan loss reserves and capital, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. analyst  Richard Ramsden  wrote in an Aug. 6 report. Large
commercial banks combined holdings of cash and securities at
large have climbed to 30 percent of managed assets, up from 22
percent at the start of the U.S. financial crisis in October
2007, Ramsden wrote, citing  Federal Reserve  data.  The Federal Reserve, which provided as much as $1.2
trillion of loans to banks in December 2008, wound down most of
its emergency programs by early 2010. One of the few exceptions
was the central-bank liquidity swap lines that provide dollars
to the ECB and other central banks so they can in turn auction
off the dollars to banks in their own jurisdictions.  Trichet, Bernanke  Banks’ woes are again thrusting central bankers to the fore
as ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  joins Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and their counterparts from around the world in
traveling this week to  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming  for the Kansas City
Fed’s annual policy symposium.  After increasing its benchmark rate twice this year to
counter inflation, the ECB this month provided relief for banks
by buying Italian and Spanish bonds for the first time, lending
unlimited funds for six months, and providing one unnamed bank
with dollars to satisfy the first such request since February.
In doing so, it’s maintaining a role it began in August 2007
when it injected cash into markets after they began to freeze.  Coming to the rescue isn’t easy for the ECB. Its balance
sheet is now 73 percent bigger than in August 2007 and its
latest bond-buying opened it to accusations that by rescuing
profligate nations it’s breaking a rule of the euro’s founding
treaty and undermining its credibility. Policy makers are also
divided over the best course of action, with Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann among those opposing the bond program.  Economic Threat  The central bank is acting in part because governments have
yet to ratify a plan to extend the scope of a 440-billion euro
rescue facility to allow it to buy bonds and inject capital into
banks. Markets tumbled last week on concern policy makers aren’t
acting fast enough.  The funding difficulties of banks was one reason cited by
Morgan Stanley economists Aug. 17 for cutting their forecast for
euro-area economic growth this year to 0.5 percent next year,
less than half the 1.2 percent previously anticipated. They now
expect the ECB to reverse this year’s rate increases, returning
its benchmark to 1 percent by the end of next year.  The economic threat is greater in  Europe  because consumers
and companies are more reliant on banks for funding than their
U.S. counterparts, said Tobias Blattner, a former ECB economist
now at Daiwa Capital Markets Europe in  London . He says the ECB
should eventually try to hand over fire-fighting duties either
to governments, who would then inject capital into financial
firms, or national central banks, who could provide short-term
loans to lenders.  ‘Uncharted Territory’  Longer-term solutions may involve the restructuring the
debt of cash-strapped nations in a way that doesn’t roil bank
balance sheets, potentially in lockstep with a European version
of the U.S.’s Troubled Asset Relief Program.  Lena Komileva , Group-of-10 strategy head at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in London, said the central bank may have no
option but to extend the backstop role it is playing for
periphery banks to lenders elsewhere. Refusal to do so would
risk a European bank default by the end of the year, she said.  “Markets are back in uncharted territory,” said Komileva.
“The crisis is a whole new story now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  