-- 
European Banks Must Pay Up to Borrow $100 Billion Amid Crisis: Euro Credit

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-08-23T13:33:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/european-banks-must-pay-up-to-borrow-100-billion-amid-crisis-euro-credit.html
European banks with more than $100
billion of cash to raise by year-end will have to pay up because
investors perceive them as the worst credits they’ve ever been.  The cost of insuring the senior and junior bonds of 25
banks and insurers doubled since April to records, according to
the Markit iTraxx Financial indexes of credit-default swaps. The
Euribor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend to each
other, reached the widest since April 2009 this month, while the
cost for European banks to fund in dollars was near a 2 1/2-year
high.  “This return of generalized banking risk marks a new phase
in the unfolding European drama,” said Lisa Hintz, an analyst
in  New York  at Capital Markets Research Group, a unit of ratings
firm Moody’s Investors Service. “Investors have heightened
concerns about sovereign and financial institution risk.”  Morgan Stanley’s estimate of the 80 billion euros ($116
billion) banks need until year-end doesn’t include the extra
capital that regulators have ordered many to raise to protect
against a re-run of the 2007 global financial meltdown. With the
 bond market  shut to all but the strongest banks, weaker lenders,
particularly those from the euro region’s so-called peripheral
nations, are relying on the  European Central Bank  for its
unlimited six-month loans.  Hoarding Cash  Even when banks receive the ECB’s money, many are hoarding
it rather than lending it on. French, German and Austrian
lenders -- those from countries considered safer credits than
the likes of  Greece , Italy and Spain -- are the lenders
depositing the most funds back with central banks, according to
CreditSights Inc.  “The banks seem to prefer to deposit cash with the ECB
rather than lend it out to others that need it,” said  John Raymond , an analyst at the financial-research firm in London.
“In itself, that’s a sign of stress in the  interbank market ”
and means companies must also pay more to borrow, he said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold bank bonds rather
than benchmark government debt surged to 302 basis points, or
3.02 percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. That’s the widest spread since July 2009 and
up from 220 at the end of last month. Average yields jumped to
an almost two-year high of 4.46 percent on Aug. 12, before
dropping back to 4.44 percent, the data show.  Political Squabbles  Squabbles between politicians and policy makers over how to
tackle the sovereign crisis have contributed to lenders’ pain
because European banks are among the peripheral nations’ biggest
creditors.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  ruled out common euro-area
 government bonds  as a solution to the “dramatic crisis” that
has already resulted in Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  having
their credit ratings cut to below investment grade. Lars Frisell, the chief economist at  Sweden ’s central bank, said last
week it wouldn’t “take much for the interbank market to
collapse.” Frisell’s also a member of the Basel Committee for
Banking Supervision, which sets guidelines on bank capital.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  told a forum
in  Washington  today that “the euro is breaking down,” and that
some collateral held by euro-area banks is questionable.  “There’s been a huge failure of policy makers to deal with
the crisis and that’s led to a general loss of confidence,”
said  Peter Chatwell , a strategist at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in
London. “The last recession was so big and so recent that it’s
remained at the front of the market’s psyche.”  Loan Pledges  Pledges of 365 billion euros in official loans to Greece,
Ireland and Portugal failed to stop their bond yields soaring
until President Jean-Claude Trichet’s ECB stepped in this month
to buy up their debt and drive down rates. The ECB said
yesterday it settled purchases worth 14.3 billion euros in the
week through Aug. 19, down from 22 billion euros the week
before.  The Markit iTraxx Financial credit-default swap indexes
tied to banks’ and insurers’ senior and subordinated bonds both
surged to all-time highs today.  The senior swaps gauge rose for a fifth day, climbing 12
basis points to a record 262, JPMorgan Chase & Co. prices show.
That’s a 94 percent jump from the low for the year of 135 basis
points on April 7. The previous intraday record-high was 260
basis points Aug. 11, according to Markit Group Ltd.  Junior Bond Risk  The equivalent index tied to financial borrowers’ riskier,
junior bonds rose 21 basis points today to 462, which is a 120
percent increase from its April 7 low of 213.  The three-month Euribor-OIS spread increased to 70 basis
points on Aug. 10, the widest since April 13, 2009, and was at
65 basis points today. The widening gap represents the
increasing difference between the cost to banks of long- and
short-term money.  “Funding is as big a constraint on lending as capital
is,” Huw van Steenis, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in London,
said in an Aug. 15 report. “This could lead to a grinding
credit crunch in the southern  euro zone  as banks look to reduce
dependency on both the ECB and wholesale funding, and be a major
drag on economic recovery.”  Even as banks deposit loans back with the ECB, it’s the
promise of this money that means a full-blown liquidity crisis
as seen in 2008 is “reasonably remote,” Matt Spick, an analyst
at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in London, wrote in an Aug. 18 client note.  The funds the Frankfurt-based lender has pumped into the
financial system have brought down the cost of overnight bank
borrowing in euros by 30 percent this month, Bloomberg data
show.  Eonia Rate  At 89 basis points, the Eonia swap rate is close to levels
last seen in March and has fallen from 125 basis points Aug. 1.
The three-month euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor, is at
1.54 percent, having stayed within 10 basis points of this level
since the beginning of June.  Still, Deutsche Bank’s Spick said he expects “a slower
moving, but still-toxic, funding crisis.” Unless debt markets
re-open in September, “this is likely to force another round of
balance sheet deleveraging, bad news for banks and also the
wider economy,” he wrote.  Meantime, U.S. investors are getting out of European bank
debt. As of the end of July, the 10 largest U.S. money market
funds cut their holdings of European bank securities by 9
percent from June 30 and by 20 percent from May 31, according to
a Fitch Ratings report yesterday. Fitch said the funds it
surveyed hold $658 billion of the total $1.53 trillion the
industry invests.  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, which measures
the cost of a bank selling dollar bonds and swapping the
proceeds back to euros, was at minus 84.3 basis points, close to
Aug. 11’s level, which was the most expensive since December
2008.  “The stress in the interbank lending markets is not
easing,” said John Brady, senior vice president in the
interest-rates product group at MF Global Inc. in  Chicago . “The
market remains skeptical of any near-term resolution to the debt
crisis in  Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  