-- 
Ex-Duane Reade CEO Cuti Gets Three Years in Prison for Inflating Earnings

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-22T22:28:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/ex-duane-reade-chief-cuti-gets-three-years-prison-for-inflating-earnings.html
Former  Duane Reade  Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Anthony Cuti was sentenced to three years in
prison for falsely inflating income and misleading investors.  Cuti, 65, of Saddle River,  New Jersey , was convicted in
June 2010 of conspiracy and  securities fraud  after a federal
 jury trial  in Manhattan. U.S. District Judge  Deborah Batts  also
ordered Cuti today to pay a $5 million fine.  Batts called Cuti “a gifted, arrogant, driven, entitled
individual” who “bullied people into committing fraudulent
acts to make the company look better than it actually was” to
increase his pay.  Batts said Cuti was also guilty of “the height of hubris”
for re-writing his employee compensation plan that would allow
him to double his compensation even if he was fired for cause,
which later occurred, she said.  Cuti didn’t admit any wrongdoing when he spoke in court
before the sentence was imposed. “I’ve always led my life with
integrity,” Cuti said as his wife, adult daughter and brother
sat in the courtroom. “It’s confusing, if not
incomprehensible.”  “Some apologies have to go out,” he added.  ‘A Good Run’  “I always thought I acted for the shareholders first and
foremost,” he said. “I’d like to say I’ve had a good career.
It was a good run. The conviction is so at odds with what I’ve
tried to be.”  Cuti’s lawyer,  Reid Weingarten , today asked Batts to impose
no jail time and allow his client to remain free to perform
public service. “It will be devastating if he’s sent away,” he
said.  “He was not a guy motivated by greed and driven to line
his pockets,” said Weingarten. Investors weren’t harmed, he
argued, saying they’d profited from Cuti’s transformation of
Duane Reade from “a sleepy nearly-bankrupt drug store on a
Manhattan street corner to being a force to be reckoned with.”  Former Duane Reade Chief Financial Officer William Tennant,
who was tried with Cuti and convicted of one count of securities
fraud, is scheduled to be sentenced Aug. 29. The U.S. said both
men engaged in a scheme to falsely increase revenue and lower
expenses from 2000 to 2005.  U.S. Probation Department officials calculated that Cuti
had faced a term from 17 1/2 years to as long as 21 years and
eight months in prison. The agency recommended an unspecified
lesser prison term be imposed, court records show.  ‘Very Serious’  “The offenses here were very serious, they went on for
four and a half years and involved continuous, almost daily
conduct by the defendant to inflate earnings of the company,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter said today. “It was
ongoing, it was continuous, it was deliberate and it was
calculated.”  Batts directed Cuti to surrender to U.S. Bureau of Prisons
officials on Jan. 31. She denied a bid by Weingarten to allow
him to remain free on bond pending his appeal.  Duane Reade, founded in 1960, was named after the two Lower
 Manhattan  streets where it was located. Bain Capital LLC bought
the chain from brothers Abraham, Eli and Jack Cohen in 1992 and
sold shares to the public in 1998.  Oak Hill  Capital Partners LP
bought all the publicly traded shares in July 2004.  Walgreen Co., the biggest U.S. drugstore chain, agreed to
buy Duane Reade Holdings from affiliates of Oak Hill for
$618 million in February 2010.  Cuti received more than $50 million from Duane Reade and
Oak Hill from 2000 through 2005, including $25 million from the
2004 acquisition by Oak Hill, prosecutors said. Cuti left the
company in 2005.  The case is U.S. v. Cuti, 08-cr-00972, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 