-- 
Ex-Marsh & Mclennan Executive Gilman Sues Spitzer, Magazine for Defamation

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-08-22T18:49:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/ex-marsh-mclennan-executive-gilman-sues-spitzer-magazine-for-defamation.html
Two former Marsh & McLennan Cos.
executives, who had insurance-fraud charges against them
dropped, sued ex-New York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer 
claiming they were defamed in a Slate magazine article.  William Gilman said Spitzer, in a Slate.com opinion piece
written in response to a Wall Street Journal editorial critical
of his investigation, indicated that Gilman, who wasn’t named in
the article, had committed crimes, according to an Aug. 19
complaint filed in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan . Edward McNenney, another former Marsh & McLennan executive, filed suit
in New York State Supreme Court Aug. 19.  Gilman worked for Marsh & McLennan from 1976 to 2004,
according to his complaint. In 2004 Spitzer announced an
investigation into practices at the company, including fees paid
by insurers to brokers who place business with them. Gilman was
indicted in 2005 on 37 counts. He was convicted of one charge,
restraint of trade and competition.  The convictions of Gilman and McNenney were thrown out by
the trial judge, James Yates of state  Supreme Court , who said
newly discovered contradictory evidence “undermines the court’s
confidence in the verdict.”  ‘Illegalities Rampant’  “I haven’t seen the lawsuit and so will not comment on
it,” Spitzer said in a telephone interview. “The illegalities
rampant at Marsh & McLennan leading to their fine of $850
million and the multiple judicial findings of illegality are
clear from the public record.”  The Slate Group LLC was also sued by Gilman and McNenney.
E-mails to the magazine’s press office seeking comment didn’t
receive a reply.  “The editorial notes that two of the cases against
employees of the company were dismissed after the defendants
were convicted,” Spitzer wrote of the Wall Street Journal piece
in his August 2010 Slate article titled “They Still Don’t Get
It.” “The editorial fails to note the many employees of Marsh
who have been convicted.”  Gilman is seeking at least $60 million in damages in the
federal suit. McNenney seeks $30 million in the state case.  The federal case is Gilman v. Spitzer, 11-c-5843, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The
state case is McNenney v. Spitzer, 109628/2011, Supreme Court of
the State of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 