-- 
Former UBS Client Must Give Tax Records to Grand Jury, Appeals Court Rules

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-08-23T16:44:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/ex-ubs-client-must-give-tax-records-to-grand-jury-court-rules.html
A former  UBS AG (UBSN)  client can’t assert
his constitutional right against self-incrimination to avoid
turning over his bank records to a U.S. grand jury, a federal
appeals court ruled in a victory for prosecutors in their
crackdown on offshore tax evasion.  The client, identified only as M.H., must produce records
sought by a federal grand jury in San Diego, according to the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  based in San Francisco. A three-judge
panel rejected M.H.’s argument that the Constitution protects
him from being a witness against himself, saying the Fifth
Amendment privilege doesn’t cover foreign bank accounts records.  “It’s a huge win for the government,” said tax attorney
Ed Robbins of Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez in
Beverly Hills,  California , who isn’t involved in the case.
“This ruling says that the government has the right to go to
any taxpayer anywhere and say, ‘Give me your foreign bank
records’ and they’d have no Fifth Amendment protection.”  Prosecutors seek information that M.H. must keep under the
Bank Secrecy Act, asking for the name and number of each
account, the name and address of each bank, and the maximum
values of accounts, according to the Aug. 19 opinion. Such
record-keeping requirements mean M.H. must comply, the appellate
panel ruled.  “Because the records sought through the subpoena fall
under the Required Records Doctrine, the Fifth Amendment
privilege against self-incrimination is inapplicable, and M.H.
may not invoke it to resist compliance with the subpoena’s
command,” the panel wrote.  Secret Swiss Accounts  The grand jury issued a subpoena in June 2010 to M.H., who
is the target of an investigation into whether he used secret
Swiss bank accounts to evade taxes, according to the ruling. He
transferred securities from his UBS account in 2002 to a
different Swiss bank, UEB Geneva, according to the ruling.  M.H. asserts the information being sought might conflict
with what he previously told the IRS, according to the ruling.  “Production might reveal, for instance, that he has
accounts he has not reported or that the information he has
reported is inaccurate,” the panel ruled. “On the other hand,
if M.H. denies having the records, he risks incriminating
himself because failing to keep the information when required to
do so is a felony.”  M.H. attorney Pamela Naughton of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter
& Hampton LLP in  San Diego  didn’t return calls seeking comment.  ‘Quite Dangerous’  Tax attorney Larry Campagna, who isn’t involved in the
case, said the ruling is “quite dangerous for the taxpayers”
because it erodes Fifth Amendment rights.  “There’s a long line of cases of judges interpreting the
Internal Revenue Code that allow taxpayers to assert Fifth
Amendment privileges,” said Campagna, of Chamberlain, Hrdlicka,
White, Williams & Aughtry in Houston.  “Now, we’ve moved to the Bank Secrecy Act arena, and the
Ninth Circuit says that the required records doctrine trumps the
Fifth Amendment,” he said.  In the opinion, the appeals court said that the Bank
Secrecy Act, which seeks to target  money laundering , has a
regulatory as well as a criminal function. That regulatory side
allows the exception to the Fifth Amendment, the court ruled.  Account Data Disclosed  UBS, the largest Swiss bank, was charged in 2009 with
aiding  tax evasion  by U.S. clients. UBS avoided prosecution by
paying $780 million, admitting it fostered tax evasion, and
giving the IRS data on more than 250 accounts, including M.H.’s,
according to the opinion. UBS later turned over data on another
4,450 accounts.  Since 2008, the U.S. has filed criminal tax charges against
at least 34 former U.S. clients of Zurich-based UBS; Zurich-
based  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ; and London-based  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank. Most of those clients have pleaded
guilty.  The U.S. also has charged at least 18 bankers, financial
advisers and lawyers who aided clients at various Swiss banks.  The appellate panel upheld the ruling of a district court
in the Southern District of California. Robbins said that he is
fighting two similar cases in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida , where he
lost a ruling.  The case is In re Grand Jury Investigation M.H. v.  United
States of America , 11-55712, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  