-- 
FDIC Sues Ex-Silverton Board, Officers for $71 Million in Bank’s Collapse

-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 
2011-08-22T23:57:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/fdic-sues-former-silverton-bank-executives-directors-for-71-million.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
sued former directors and officers of Atlanta-based Silverton
Bank NA, seeking $71 million to help recoup costs caused by the
biggest bank collapse in  Georgia  history.  Silverton consistently disregarded its own policies when
making loans, according to the suit filed today in federal court
in Atlanta. At the same time, it built a “large and lavish”
office building and spent millions of dollars on new corporate
aircraft, the FDIC said.  “Silverton’s aggressive expansion plan was accompanied by
significant weaknesses in loan underwriting, credit
administration and a complete disregard of a declining
economy,” the agency said in the complaint. The officers and
directors were accused of “robotically voting for approval of
transactions without exercising any business judgment.”  The damages sought represent less than a fifth of the
$386 million the FDIC spent on Silverton, the lawsuit alleges.
The bank was declared insolvent in May 2009.  Begun in 1986 to serve small community banks, Silverton
gained a national charter and expanded into real estate
development and acquisition loans, according to the suit. Its
assets grew to $3 billion in 2008 from $1.7 billion in 2005, the
FDIC said.  Wholesale Bank  Silverton, a wholesale bank with no consumer operations,
was owned and overseen by more than 400 community lenders in the
region. It provided banking services, including wire-transfer
systems, bond trading and credit-card operations, to about 1,400
institutions in 44 states.  The bank’s troubles began in early 2007, when it changed
from a state to a national charter so it could accelerate its
growth, according to a report by the Treasury Department’s
Office of Inspector General, which reviews failures of banks
regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  Silverton’s commercial real estate lending rose to $1.2
billion at the end of 2008 from $681 million at the end of 2006,
the report said. The bank had $4.1 billion in assets when it
failed. At the time, the FDIC estimated the closing would cost
the insurance fund $1.3 billion.  The suit names former chief executive officer and board
member Tom A. Bryan, former Chief Lending Officer Brian D.
Bueche, and former Chief Credit Officer and Senior Vice
President Brock Fredette. Bryan, the lead defendant, and
Fredette didn’t respond to messages left on their home
telephones seeking comment on the suit. Efforts to locate Bueche
were unsuccessful.  The agency sued 14 other former directors as well.  The case is  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  v. Bryan,
1:11-CV-2790, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Beasley at   dbeasley3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 