-- 
Finland Open to New Collateral Model After Provoking Rebuke

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-08-23T06:57:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/finland-open-to-new-collateral-model-after-austrian-rebuke-katainen-says.html
Finland  is open to adjusting its
collateral arrangement with Greece after several euro members
criticized the Nordic country for securing a bilateral deal to
protect its commitment, Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said.  “Everybody knew beforehand that this is a red line for us,
we have tried to solve the problem, we have done it together
with Greece,” Katainen said yesterday in an interview in
Helsinki. “It’s a well-functioning technical solution, but if
this particular model isn’t possible, then we have to try to
find another model.”  Finland’s Aug. 16 announcement that it had secured extra
assurances its contribution to a second Greek bailout will be
repaid triggered a backlash of criticism and prompted calls for
similar deals from  Austria  and the Netherlands, which both share
Finland’s AAA rating, as well as Slovakia and Slovenia. Austria
has warned Finland’s collateral deal threatens to undermine
rescue efforts.  “I don’t think there is a risk, because everybody knows
that we have this opinion that we need collateral,” Katainen
said. “We have told our partners in  Europe  and the euro zone
the reason why this is important. It’s a part of our government
agreement and we know that it will not change. We also know that
it’s a delicate issue in many countries and it’s our
responsibility to find a solution to it.”  European Divisions  Finland’s arrangement highlights divisions in the euro area,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a report yesterday. Bilateral
agreements would be credit negative for  Greece  and other
countries now receiving, or in line for, bailouts, as it shows
continued differences among euro-area states over support
measures, Moody’s said.  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter has proposed a
separate collateral model after deriding Finland’s arrangement
as being “financially unviable” and having the potential to
“blow up” Greece’s second rescue package. The government in
Vienna wants euro members to have less access to collateral
deals if their banks are already benefiting from incentives
included in the private sector portion of Greece’s new 159
billion-euro rescue.  The Netherlands won’t accept Austria’s proposal, Dutch
Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  wrote in a letter to
parliament yesterday. “Such an arrangement, like Finland’s deal,
isn’t compatible with the principle of equal treatment of all
euro countries and would, just like the Finnish proposal, lead
to a greater levy” on the region’s rescue fund, he said.  Finnish Euro-Skeptics  Finland’s agreement requires Greece to deposit cash in a
state account that the Nordic country will invest in top-rated
bonds. The interest generated will raise the amount to cover
Finland’s bailout contribution. The deposit will be equal to 20
percent of the collateral needed, according to Fekter. Finland
hasn’t disclosed the amount. The deal needs approval from other
euro members.  Collateral is “better than nothing, but it doesn’t change
the warped model,”  Timo Soini , leader of Finland’s euro-skeptic
The Finns party, said by telephone yesterday. The costs of
preventing a Greek default “are skyrocketing and even though
the financial elite doesn’t want to admit it, Europe’s running
out of money,” said Soini, whose party this month polled as
Finland’s most popular political group as voter opposition to
bailouts mounts.  Soini’s record result in Finland’s April election, which
saw his group’s backing surge fourfold making it parliament’s
third-biggest party, forced lawmakers across the political
divide to respond to voter disgruntlement over the cost of more
European rescue packages.  Greek Plea  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos called on
European Union officials to quickly resolve the issue of
additional countries following Finland in calling for collateral
to participate in a new Greek aid package.  “The Greek Government will have enough funds in place to
roll over all its debts until the end of the year. This leaves
policymakers with a bit of time to persuade Finland and/or the
other economies to back down, or find other ways to ensure that
Greece’s financing needs for the next three years are met,”  Ben May , a London-based economist at  Capital Economics , said in a
note yesterday. “Nonetheless, this latest development will
inevitably raise concerns that the second rescue package may
flounder before it is even up and running.”  Competing Models  Katainen said “it’s better not to start talking about
competing models now,” in the interview. “We have very close
negotiations going on with all the euro zone partners and let’s
see what the outcome of those negotiations is.”  Disagreement over Finland’s collateral arrangement will be
resolved “within weeks,” he said. “If this card doesn’t fly
then we have to try another one, but the current model is simple
and it’s functioning, so it would be better to accept this
one.”  Greece’s second bailout agreement allows private investors
to swap their Greek  government bonds  into new securities that
are collateralized.  France ’s  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Belgium ’s Dexia SA
and  Germany ’s Commerzbank AG are among banks who said they will
participate in the swap and may therefore benefit from the
collateral.  While no Finnish, Slovak, or Slovenian bank has signed up
to the plan, both Austria’s Erste Group Bank and Dutch  ING Groep
NV (INGA)  have agreed to support the proposal for the private sector,
according to a  list  published by the  Institute of International
Finance . Erste held about 50 million euros of Greek government
bonds on its books on July 29, compared with 1.2 billion euros
of Greek bonds held by ING at the end of June.  The Dutch lender took a 310 million-euro impairment charge
on its Greek bond holdings maturing before 2020, about 850
million euros of total, it said on Aug. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  