-- 
Ford to Join With Toyota to Develop Hybrid Pickup Trucks, SUVs

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-08-22T23:15:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/ford-will-join-with-toyota-to-develop-hybrid-light-trucks-sport-utilities.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest seller of gasoline-electric autos,
plan to collaborate to develop a hybrid system for  pickup trucks 
and sport-utility vehicles as U.S. fuel-economy rules tighten.  The automakers reached a preliminary agreement that calls
for selling vehicles with the technology this decade, as well as
working together on in-car communications systems and Internet-
based services, according to a joint statement yesterday.  Ford is joining forces with Toyota City, Japan-based
Toyota, maker of the best-selling Prius gasoline-electric car,
as the U.S. automaker plans to triple North American output of
electric vehicles and hybrids to more than 100,000 by 2013. Ford
Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  and Toyota President  Akio Toyoda  personally negotiated the potential tie-up, said  Derrick Kuzak , Ford’s product development chief.  “It’s understandable that they would tap each other for
their expertise in these areas,” said  Aaron Bragman , an
industry analyst at  Global Insight  in Troy, Michigan. “It is
such an unexpected tie-up between these two companies, we’re
still trying to understand the implications.”  The companies want to have a final agreement by next year,
focused on developing a rear-wheel-drive system to handle larger
vehicles, Ford’s Kuzak said at a press conference in Dearborn,
Michigan, where the second-largest U.S. automaker is based. The
collaboration is the first between Ford and Toyota, he said.  Fuel Economy  The announcement comes after President  Barack Obama  won an
agreement from automakers in July to double the Corporate
Average Fuel Economy, or CAFE, for vehicles sold in the U.S. to
54.5 miles per gallon by 2025.  “The new CAFE structure demands that fuel-economy gains be
made in all light-vehicle segments, not just a portion,” said
 Michael Robinet , director of global product forecasts for
consultant IHS Automotive in Northville,  Michigan . “Everyone is
looking at new ways to increase fuel economy.”  The challenge for pickups and large SUVs will be to
maintain capability while increasing fuel economy, Robinet said.
Unlike in cars, “downsizing is not a preferred option,” he
said.  The agreement “brings together the capability of two
global leaders in hybrid vehicles and hybrid technology to
develop a better solution more quickly and affordably,” Kuzak
said in the statement.  Working Out Details  “We have a lot of details to work out with Ford before we
can tell you more,” Takeshi Uchiyamada, a Toyota executive vice
president and the head of its research and development, told
reporters in Dearborn.  The goal “is to bring to market a product that is very
good, very affordable and very soon,” said  John Hanson , a
Toyota spokesman in Torrance, California, without elaborating.  Ford licensed Toyota technology for the hybrid version of
its Escape small SUV in 2004, which also used parts from
suppliers affiliated with the Japanese automaker.  The U.S. company’s current hybrids “are completely
developed, designed and engineered by Ford,” Kuzak said.  Mulally and Toyoda began their discussions in a chance
meeting in a U.S. airport, Uchiyamada said, adding that he
didn’t know when or where that occurred. The companies’ product
development staffs started talks in April, he said.  Ford and Toyota declined to say which trucks and SUVs will
use the jointly developed hybrid technology. Ford’s F-Series
pickup is the top-selling vehicle in the U.S., and the automaker
sells several SUV models, such as the Ford Explorer and Lincoln
Navigator. Toyota sells the Tundra large pickup, Tacoma small
pickup and SUVs such as the Highlander and Sequoia.  Current Hybrids  Ford, which wants to make a quarter of its vehicles run at
least partly on electricity, now offers hybrid versions of the
Escape and the Ford Fusion and Lincoln MKZ sedans. It sells
about 35,000 hybrids annually.  Toyota’s Prius is the top-selling hybrid in the U.S., with
74,427 sold this year through July and 140,928 in all of 2010.  Toyota has said it may eventually offer hybrid versions of
every model in its lineup. Still, 14 years after the Prius was
first sold in  Japan , the company hasn’t offered hybrids larger
than its midsize Highlander and Lexus RX SUVs.  The Japanese company is also working with electric-car
maker  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  on a battery-powered version of the
Toyota RAV4 sport-utility vehicle that begins sales in 2012.  The Toyota-Ford collaboration could expand into projects
beyond hybrid trucks and SUVs and in-car communications,
Uchiyamada said.  Market Gap  Ford and Toyota are filling a gap in the market that both
have been slow to compete in, said Michael Omotoso, senior
manager of global powertrain at J.D. Power & Associates. At the
same time, he said, sales of hybrid pickups and SUVs at rivals
such as  General Motors Co. (GM)  have been lackluster.  GM’s hybrid Silverado and Sierra pickups and Tahoe, Yukon
and Escalade SUVs “haven’t sold very well” because of large
price premiums and lower towing capacity, Omotoso said in a
telephone interview.  “It’ll be interesting to see if in this joint venture the
towing capacity is the same or the difference is negligible,”
said Omotoso, who is based in Troy, Michigan. “If they can
figure that out, that would help their hybrids outsell GM’s.”  In 1999, Toyota and Detroit-based GM announced plans for a
broad partnership on hybrids and hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles. GM
ultimately declined to pursue the collaboration. Toyota also
shared an assembly plant in Fremont,  California , with the former
GM for 25 years until the U.S. company pulled out in 2009 as
part of bankruptcy proceedings.  Production Plans  Ford rose 2 cents to $10.01 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Toyota’s American depositary
receipts fell 16 cents to $70.54.  The U.S. automaker expanded production plans in June for
the C-Max hybrid wagon and C-Max Energi plug-in hybrid. The
company plans to begin producing the five-passenger wagon next
year in the U.S., where it doesn’t expect to sell a gasoline-
only version. Ford also intends to introduce an electric version
of its Focus small car in 2012.  Mulally has revived Ford in part by focusing on  fuel
efficiency  and broadening the lineup with small cars such as the
Fiesta. Ford is the only major U.S. automaker to avoid
bankruptcy, and earned $9.28 billion in the past two years after
$30.1 billion in losses from 2006 through 2008. The automaker
reported net income of $4.95 billion in this year’s first half.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn, Michigan, at   Knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  