-- 
Foster’s to Return $525 Million to Shareholders to Thwart SABMiller Offer

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-08-23T09:26:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/foster-s-to-return-520-million-to-shareholders-to-thwart-sabmiller-offer.html
Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL) , Australia’s
biggest brewer, will return at least A$500 million ($525
million) to investors as it resists  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s hostile
takeover bid.  The return may include a capital reduction or share
buyback, the world’s most profitable independent major brewer
said in a statement today. Melbourne-based Foster’s posted a net
loss of A$89 million in the 12 months ended June on charges from
its former wine unit.  Buying back stock may help retain shareholder support as
Chief Executive Officer  John Pollaers  tries to revive earnings,
including using A$55 million of cost reductions on brand
promotion and international sales. The Foster’s board says
SABMiller’s A$9.5 billion offer is too low and comes after
natural disasters and stalling Australian  consumer spending  hurt
demand and narrowed margins.  The plan “buys Foster’s management more time and gives
them options to do more,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional
dealer at IG Markets in Melbourne. “There had been expectations
they would do a A$1 billion buyback.”  Shares Gain  Foster’s rose 1.8 percent, the most in a week, to A$4.99 at
the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney, above SABMiller’s
A$4.90 a share offer. The stock has gained 10 percent since
the day before SABMiller’s bid was rejected on June 21.  The company plans to return the money to shareholders this
financial year and the amount may be more than A$500 million
depending on market conditions, it said. Foster’s in July said
it will get A$390 million in cash refunds and interest after
winning a dispute with the Australian Commissioner of Taxation.  The company is targeting “mid single digit” sales growth
in the current year with earnings before interest and tax to
rise more than revenue, Foster’s said, without providing more
specific forecasts.  “The key message is that the turnaround of the business is
on track,” Pollaers said in a Bloomberg TV interview. “We’ve
got an incredibly efficient asset base and what we are looking
to do now is set ourselves even greater benchmarks.”  London-based SABMiller said Aug. 17 that it will cut its
offer by any dividends paid out. Foster’s today said it will pay
a second-half dividend of 13.25 Australian cents.  Wine Writedowns  Pollaers has been CEO of Foster’s since it completed the
spinoff of Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. in May, ending a 15-year
involvement in wine that cost more than A$8 billion to build and
resulted in about A$3 billion of writedowns.  The company’s net loss reported today included A$1.2
billion of losses related to the wine assets, including
transaction costs and foreign currency reserves.  Excluding items, profit for the year was A$495 million,
compared with the A$494 million median estimate of three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Earnings before interest and tax from Australian brewing
fell 6.2 percent to A$847.8 million, the company said.  Pollaers, who spent almost 20 years at spirits maker  Diageo
Plc (DGE)  before joining Foster’s in 2010, is betting that spending
more on promoting brands and cutting production costs will
revive growth.  Market Share  “I certainly didn’t join the group for it to be sold,”
Pollaers told reporters on a conference call today. “Our
commitment is to turn this business around.”  Foster’s share of the Australian beer market has fallen to
less than 50 percent from about 55 percent in 2005, as consumers
shifted to craft brews and pre-mixed spirit drinks. The slide
has eased and the company is holding at the same level as a year
ago, it said.  “The turnaround is by no means complete,” Pollaers said.  January’s flooding in two of  Australia ’s three most popular
states crimped sales and lowered profitability at the domestic
beer business for the first time in a decade.  The company is cutting 145 jobs across its business and
will review its “asset footprint,” which should be concluded
within six months, Foster’s said today.  The company’s domestic beer operating profit margin, or
earnings before interest and tax as a proportion of sales, fell
to 38 percent from 38.7 percent a year earlier.  That’s higher than the 23.5 percent of SABMiller in the
year ended March and 30.8 percent at Anheuser-Busch InBev NV,
the world’s biggest brewer, in the year ended December,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Overseas Earnings  Foster’s international earnings were little changed at A$18
million. The brewer last week named James Doherty to head its
international unit, which sells beer in 45 markets and accounts
for 2 percent of the company’s sales.  “We’re just not playing in that category to any scale in
international markets,” Pollaers said. “Over a decade of
distraction by wine, the international beer business just hasn’t
had the focus.”  The Foster’s board declined to enter talks with SABMiller,
the world’s second-largest brewer by volume, prompting the
bidder to take its offer straight to shareholders on Aug. 17.  The takeover offer from the maker of Miller Lite and
Grolsch will have to rise by about 6 percent to A$5.20 to
succeed, according to the median estimate of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in  Melbourne  
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  