-- 
Galleon Tipster Lawyer, Ex-Smith Barney’s Shah, News Corp. in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-22T11:10:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/galleon-tipster-lawyer-smith-barney-news-corp-in-court-news.html
Jason Goldfarb, a New York attorney
who pleaded guilty to passing inside information from two other
lawyers to ex-Galleon Group LLC trader  Zvi Goffer , was sentenced
to three years in prison.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  made the ruling Aug.
19 at a hearing in Manhattan federal court. Federal sentencing
guidelines, which aren’t binding on judges, called for a term of
37 to 46 months. Prosecutors from the office of U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara said Goldfarb, of Brooklyn, New York, deserved a
term at the high end of that range.  “Goldfarb’s crimes were particularly egregious because of
his status as an attorney,” the U.S. said in court papers filed
Aug. 12. “While working as an attorney obligated to protect
client confidences, Goldfarb engaged in a scheme to
misappropriate information protected by the attorney-client
privilege in order to enrich himself.”  Goffer was convicted of all 14 criminal counts against him
in June, in the second trial of defendants charged in a
nationwide investigation of  insider trading  at  hedge funds .
Goffer’s former boss, Galleon Group co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam ,
was convicted of insider trading in May. Prosecutors are seeking
a sentence of more than 24 years when Rajaratnam is sentenced
Sept. 27.  Prosecutors claimed Goldfarb conspired with Goffer to pay
thousands of dollars to Arthur Cutillo and Brien Santarlas,
lawyers at Boston-based Ropes & Gray LLP, for information about
transactions their firm was working on. Cutillo, who was
Goldfarb’s college roommate, and Santarlas pleaded guilty.  Cutillo admitted that he and Santarlas leaked information
about transactions involving 3Com Inc. and Axcan Pharma Inc.
Goldfarb passed the tips to Goffer, who traded on the
information, Cutillo said.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Ex-Smith Barney Adviser Shah Gets 38-Month Term for Fraud  Sanjeev Jayant Kumar Shah, a former financial adviser at
Smith Barney, was sentenced to 38 months in prison for stealing
$3.25 million from one client in a bid cover up a failed trade
he made for another.  Shah took the money from Belize Bank to cover heavy margin
calls after a calculation error on a set of complicated foreign-
exchange trades for Concorde Bank resulted in losses, according
to a sentencing memorandum. Shah’s lawyer, Ed Little, said he
panicked, seeking to avoid admitting his mistake to Concorde
Bank and to Smith Barney. Shah pleaded guilty in November.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley on Aug. 19 sentenced
Shah to less than the 78 to 97 months suggested by federal
sentencing guidelines, noting that Shah used $2 million of his
own and his family’s funds to meet the margin calls. Pauley also
agreed with Shah’s lawyer that the defendant could easily have
fled to Kenya, where his family lives, to avoid prosecution.  “He made a very tragic mistake and then he compounded it,
time and time again, through any number of fraudulent acts, to
conceal that mistake,” Pauley said.  The case is U.S. v. Shah, 10-cr-1169, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here. For the
latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  News Corp. Hacker Ordered by U.K. Judge to Name Reporters  Glenn Mulcaire , the private investigator jailed in 2007 for
intercepting celebrities’ voice mails while working for News
Corp.’s News of the World tabloid, must reveal who told him to
hack phones, a U.K. judge ruled.  Mulcaire on July 29 was told he can’t appeal a High Court
order that he name who at the paper told him to intercept voice-
mail messages for model Elle Macpherson and other public
figures, according to the lawyer for Steve Coogan, a comedian
who believes his phone was hacked. The names must be revealed by
Aug. 26, he said.  Mulcaire “will now have to identify exactly who at the
News of the World asked him to access the mobile phones of the
named individuals and who he provided the information to,” John
Kelly, with the law firm Schillings in  London , said Aug. 19 in
an interview. The revelation could show hacking took place on an
“industrial scale,” he said.  Mulcaire and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. newspaper unit are
defendants in dozens of civil lawsuits filed by people who claim
their voice mails were accessed. London’s Metropolitan Police
are examining Mulcaire’s notebooks and contacting possible
victims, and have arrested 13 people, including the newspaper’s
former editors, Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson .  A lower court judge rejected in February Mulcaire’s
argument that the identities of those who requested the hacking
weren’t relevant to the celebrities’ lawsuits since he had
already admitted to the breaches. The names will help claimants
understand the scope of the alleged conspiracy between Mulcaire
and the newspaper, the judge ruled.  Mulcaire’s lawyer, Sarah Webb, declined to comment when
reached by phone Aug. 19.  Hacking Detective Arrested on Leaks as Probe Nets 14th Suspect  A London police detective was arrested for leaking
information about the probe into phone hacking at the News of
the World, while the department also said it had detained a 14th
suspect in that investigation.  Dan Evans, a former reporter at the News of the World, is
the 35-year-old man police said they arrested Aug. 19 on
suspicion of intercepting voice mails, according to a person
familiar with the situation.  The 51-year-old detective was arrested at work Aug. 18 for
misconduct related to unauthorized disclosure of information
about the phone-hacking investigation, known as Operation
Weeting, police said in a statement. He was suspended from duty.  “I made it very clear when I took on this investigation
the need for operational and information security,” said Sue
Aker, the Metropolitan Police Deputy Assistant Commissioner in
charge of the police investigation into phone hacking. “It is
hugely disappointing that this may not have been adhered to.”  U.K. newspapers have on several occasions published details
of phone-hacking arrests before public announcements were made.
The Daily Telegraph and Sky News reported the Aug. 19 arrest was
linked to information given to the Guardian newspaper.  Both men have been released on bail, the police said.  Earlier this year the Met police renewed their probe into
claims journalists and investigators at News Corp.’s now defunct
News of the World accessed private voice mails to get stories
after information from civil lawsuits indicated the practice
went beyond a reporter and private investigator jailed in 2007.  Evans has been cooperating in lawsuits against News Corp.’s
U.K. unit brought by victims of phone hacking. In February, he
agreed to allow interior designer Kelly Hoppen, one of the group
of celebrities suing the company, to search his computer for
evidence, his lawyer said at the time.  Mets Owners Say Madoff Trustee Lacks Proof They Knew of Fraud  A $1 billion lawsuit by the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm against the owners of the New York Mets should be
dismissed, a lawyer for the baseball team’s owners told a
federal judge.  Karen Wagner, an attorney for owners Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, argued to U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff that the trustee,
New York lawyer  Irving Picard , has failed to show evidence they
ignored red flags that should have alerted them to Madoff’s
fraud.  Picard’s case “doesn’t plead anything amounting to willful
blindness,” Wagner said in a hearing in Manhattan on Friday.  The trustee, New York lawyer Irving Picard, claims Wilpon
and Katz must turn over the $300 million in profits for the
benefit of Madoff victims who lost more than they gained in the
fraud. Picard claims they can’t keep the $700 million principal
because they “turned a blind eye” to concerns Madoff was
running a fraudulent scheme.  David Sheehan , a lawyer representing Picard, argued in the
hearing that he has to show only that Wilpon and Katz had
information that should have prompted them to question Madoff
about his operations.  Sheehan said the trustee wants the case heard by a jury if
it goes to trial. Rakoff said he will rule on the request by the
end of September. He scheduled a two-week trial to begin March 5
if he doesn’t dismiss the suit. Rakoff said he will permit the
parties to go forward with the exchange of evidence in the case.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Clemens Should Face Retrial on Perjury Charges, U.S. Says  Former Major League Baseball pitcher Roger Clemens should
be tried again on charges that he lied to Congress, U.S.
prosecutors argued, saying government conduct that led to a
mistrial was simply a mistake.  Prosecutors in  Washington  on Friday asked U.S. District
Judge  Reggie Walton  to reject Clemens’s bid to have the
indictment against him dismissed. Walton ended the first trial
on July 14 after prosecutors showed jurors a video clip
containing information he had ruled couldn’t be part of the
government’s perjury and obstruction case.  “The government accepts responsibility for its oversight,
and regrets the burdens that error has placed on this court and
defendant,” U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen Jr. wrote in a
brief. “There was no intention to run afoul of any court
ruling.”  Clemens, 49, in a motion filed last month argued that under
the U.S. Constitution he can’t face a jury twice for the same
crime. His lawyer,  Rusty Hardin , alleged that the experienced
prosecutors on the case intentionally provoked the mistrial
after setbacks cast doubt on whether Clemens could be convicted.  “The record refutes the defendant’s claim,” prosecutors
said in last week’s filing. “The government’s case was -- and
is --strong. Nothing had happened thus far at trial that would
have provided the government with any motive to cause a
mistrial.”  The presentation of the barred evidence was a mistake, not
misconduct, prosecutors said.  Walton raised the possibility that the government might not
be able to bring the former New York Yankees pitcher before a
new jury when he stopped the trial. He said at the time that he
would have to assess whether the government, “having
precipitated this mistrial,” could retry Clemens or whether
“re-prosecution is barred by double jeopardy.”  Walton scheduled a Sept. 2 hearing to decide whether the
seven-time Cy Young Award winner will be tried again.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Miles Davis’s Trademark Owners Sue New York’s Miles’ Cafe  The owners of the late jazz trumpeter Miles Davis’s
trademarks sued the operators of a Manhattan jazz club called
Miles’ Cafe alleging infringement.  Miles Davis Properties LLC, which includes two of Davis’s
children and a nephew, said Friday the club and an owner, Satoru
“Miles” Kobayashi, violated registered trademarks including
one of a silhouette of the musician and composer playing his
trumpet, in a complaint in federal court in Manhattan.  “Defendants are intentionally free-riding off the goodwill
associated with the Miles Davis marks by using them to promote a
jazz club entitled Miles’ Cafe in a way that is likely to
mislead the public,” lawyers for the trademark owners said in
the complaint.  Kobayashi, a trumpeter, told a publication that Miles Davis
appeared to him in a dream and told him to change his first name
to Miles and open a cafe in his name, according to the
complaint.  No one answered the phone at the Miles’ Cafe on 52nd Street
in Manhattan.  Davis, who died in 1991, released 67 studio albums and 51
live albums, court papers state. His 1959 album “‘Kind of
Blue’’ is the best-selling jazz album of all time, according to
the complaint. A pioneer in various styles of jazz including
cool, hard bop, modal and fusion, Davis received eight Grammy
awards and was inducted into the Rock ‘n’ Roll Hall of Fame.  Miles Davis Properties has not authorized any use of the
name for a jazz club or other entertainment venue, the complaint
states.  The case is Miles Davis Properties LLC v. Miles’ Cafe
Corp., 11-5816, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Litigation Departments  U.K. Lawmakers Seek Answers From News Corp.’s Former Law Firm  British lawmakers investigating phone-hacking at News
Corp.’s News of the World have turned their attention to the
criminal defense firm hired by the company’s U.K. unit in 2006
to conduct an internal probe.  Members of Parliament sent a letter seeking evidence from
London-based  BCL Burton Copeland  after receiving new testimony
from News Corp. Deputy Chief Operating Officer James Murdoch and
several former executives, Britain’s Culture, Media and Sport
Committee said in an Aug. 16 statement. The company claims the
law firm’s investigation found no evidence of widespread phone
hacking -- a determination that has since been debunked.  Andy Coulson, the tabloid’s former editor, who was arrested
last month, told the committee in 2009 that Burton Copeland had
been hired to find out ‘‘what the hell had gone on” after the
tabloid’s royal reporter  Clive Goodman  was arrested for phone
hacking, according to a transcript. “There was nothing that
they asked for that they were not given,” he said.  Earlier government probes into phone-hacking ended when
lawmakers and police reached dead ends in their queries. The
Metropolitan Police reopened the case in January after
celebrities’ civil lawsuits revealed evidence the crime went
beyond Goodman. Since then, 13 people have been arrested and
News Corp. was forced to shutter the 168-year-old tabloid to
contain public anger.  Calls and e-mails to Burton Copeland founder and senior
partner Ian Burton weren’t returned.  Lawmakers have suggested News International should have
become aware earlier that hacking was widespread, with police
saying at least 4,000 phones may have been targeted, allegedly
including those of members of Parliament.  Burton Copeland reviewed e-mails and financial records for
nine months in 2006 and 2007, the tabloid’s former legal
manager, Tom Crone, told the committee in 2009. It didn’t
uncover evidence that phone hacking extended beyond Goodman and
Glenn Mulcaire, the private investigator jailed for intercepting
messages for members of the British royal family, he said.  For more, click here.  Grupo Mexico Unit Ordered to Pay Law Firm $122.4 Million  Grupo Mexico SAB’s U.S. mining unit must pay $122.4 million
in fees and $6.5 million in expenses to the Houston law firm the
Mexican copper producer spent six years fighting in federal
courts in Texas.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Richard S. Schmidt in Corpus Christi,
Texas, on Aug. 18 ordered Asarco LLC to pay the fees and
expenses of Baker Botts LLP, which won a judgment potentially
worth more than $6 billion against Grupo Mexico in 2008 related
to Asarco’s bankruptcy. The case was settled when Grupo Mexico
agreed to pay creditors about $2.5 billion to bring Asarco out
of bankruptcy.  “The results obtained in these cases are nothing short of
extraordinary,” Schmidt wrote, explaining why he thought the
fees were justified.  The judge credited Baker Botts with winning billions of
dollars for Asarco’s creditors, who included victims of asbestos
poisoning and governmental agencies responsible for cleaning up
mining pollution.  “Baker Botts performed at an exemplary level,” Schmidt
wrote in an opinion issued last month. The payment order was
issued Aug. 18.  G. Irvin Terrell was Baker Botts’s lead attorney in the
fraudulent-transfer suit. Jack L. Kinzie was the lead lawyer in
the bankruptcy case before Grupo Mexico regained control of
Asarco and hired a new law firm.  Asarco objected to the fees. The company’s new attorney,
Marty L. Brimmage Jr. of the law firm Haynes & Boone LLP, didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mail requesting comment on the fee
decision.  The case is In re Asarco LLC, 05-21207, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Texas (Corpus Christi).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  Court Filings  New York Law School Suit Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  A lawsuit accusing  New York Law School  of inflating
statistics on graduates’ jobs and pay by former students was the
most-read litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system last
week.  The lawsuit, filed Aug. 10 in New York, and a second suit
filed in Michigan against  Thomas M. Cooley Law School , claim the
schools knowingly inflated employment and salary statistics to
recruit and retain students. The complaints were filed by three
New York law graduates and four Cooley graduates seeking to
represent all current and former students at both schools.  “Any claims that prospective students or our graduates
have been misled or legally harmed by our reporting are simply
baseless,” James Thelen, Cooley’s associate dean for legal
affairs and general counsel, said Aug. 10 in an e-mailed
statement.  “These claims are without merit and we will vigorously
defend against them in court,” Richard A. Matasar, dean of New
York Law School, said Aug. 10 in a statement.  The case is Gomez-Jimenez v. New York Law School, New York
state Supreme Court (New York).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  