-- 
German July Tax Revenue Surges 9.9%, Finance Ministry Says

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-08-22T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/german-july-tax-revenue-surges-9-9-finance-ministry-says.html
German tax revenue jumped 9.9
percent in July from a year earlier, helping put  Europe ’s
biggest economy on course to balance its budget by 2014, the
 Finance Ministry  said today in its monthly report.  Tax revenue rose to 39.7 billion euros ($57 billion), the
ministry said. The Berlin-based ministry aims to collect 4.4
percent more tax this year. The deficit will narrow to about 1.5
percent of gross domestic product in 2011, a smaller shortfall
than anticipated earlier this year, it said.  “Prospects for public administration budgets are
favorable,” the ministry said. Credible budget consolidation
“can pay off and contribute to a quick return to growth and
solid budgetary positions.”  German 10-year government bond yields fell to a record low
last week as investors sought the safest of assets amid concerns
of a worsening of the euro region’s debt woes. Tax receipts may
grow at a slower pace in the second half as the crisis weighs on
confidence, damping the economy’s expansion.  Germany ’s second-quarter GDP growth of 0.1 percent was the
weakest since the country emerged from recession two years ago,
prompting Commerzbank AG to cut its 2011 growth forecast to 3
percent from 3.4 percent.  Confidence among consumers, businesses and investors fell
in July. Three of Germany’s biggest companies, Siemens AG, BASF
AG and Volkswagen AG, reported second-quarter earnings that
missed analyst estimates and said they had become more cautious
about the economic outlook.  “It’s surprising that domestic demand tended to weaken in
the second quarter,” the ministry said, adding this may have
had to do with “uncertainty related to the debt crises in the
euro are and the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  