-- 
Ghanaian Lawmakers to Debate $3 Billion China Loan for Infrastructure, Gas

-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 
2011-08-22T05:35:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/ghanaian-lawmakers-to-debate-3-billion-china-loan-for-infrastructure-gas.html
Lawmakers in  Ghana  will begin debate
today on a $3 billion loan from the  China  Development Bank, the
biggest in the West African nation’s history, for infrastructure
projects including the development of a natural-gas industry.  Members of Parliament have been recalled from their recess
for the three-day discussion on the loan, which was given to
Ghana during a visit made by President John Atta Mills to China
in September, said Moses Asaga, chairman of the parliamentary
select committee on energy and finance. The president signed
concessionary-loan deals worth $10.4 billion during that trip,
according to a government statement.  “The money will be used to develop and expand fishing
harbors, landing sites, roads and railway lines among other
developmental projects,” Asaga said by phone Aug. 19.  When the deals were signed, concern grew among some
opposition politicians that  Ghana ,  Africa ’s newest oil exporter,
was leveraging too much of its future revenue from crude as
collateral for loans. Six days before production began at the
Jubilee oil field on Dec. 15, lawmakers from Mills’ ruling party
amended a bill to allow the government to borrow against future
crude funds. Opposition lawmakers voted against the change.  If Parliament approves the loan, work will begin on an $800
million natural-gas industry that that country wants to develop
in step with the oil industry, said George Sipa Yankey, chief
executive officer of the Ghana National Gas Co.  Production Plan  “We will produce 150 million units of pipeline gas and 600
tons of liquefied petroleum gas daily to serve as a cheaper and
reliable source of power to industries and homes across the
country by the last quarter of 2013,” he said in an interview
Aug. 18. The infrastructure involves pipelines and gas plants in
the country’s Western region, where most of the offshore  oil
fields  are located.  The loan includes $500 million for a railway project in the
country’s west, a new fishing harbor at Axim, a village near the
Jubilee field, and in the east, development of roads and a sea-
defense wall to guard against coastal erosion, Asaga said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 