-- 
Gold Seen Heading for Biggest Annual Gain in 32 Years on Flight to Safety

-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 
2011-08-22T11:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/gold-seen-heading-for-biggest-annual-gain-in-32-years-on-flight-to-safety.html
Gold may climb the most in more than
three decades this year as investors and central banks boost
their holdings on concern that global economic growth may stall
amid a worsening sovereign-debt crisis in the U.S. and  Europe .  Gold for immediate delivery may reach $2,000 an ounce by
the yearend, extending this year’s gain to 41 percent, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 13 traders and
analysts at a conference in Kovalam in South India on Aug. 20.
That would be the most since the 127 percent surge in 1979,
according to Bloomberg data.  The metal is set for an 11th year of gains as holdings in
exchange-traded products reached a record on Aug. 8 and central
banks are adding to their reserves for the first time in a
generation.  George Soros , the billionaire investor, cut his
holdings in the SPDR Gold Trust this year as prices rallied,
while billionaire  John Paulson  maintained the largest stake,
according to regulatory filings last week.  “The economic data, debt problems, balance sheet problems
are all deep-rooted and will take years to work out of the
system and that is why we are still bullish on the trend in
gold,” said  Paul Walker , global head of precious metals at
industry researcher GFMS Ltd.  Gold for immediate delivery surged as much as 2.3 percent
to a record $1,894.80 an ounce today and traded at $1,878.73 an
ounce at 6:58 p.m. in  Singapore . Prices gained 6 percent last
week, the most since January 2009. Bullion for October delivery
gained as much as 1 percent to an all-time high of 28,244 rupees
($616) per 10 grams on the Multi Commodity Exchange of India
Ltd. and traded at 27,800 rupees at 4:29 p.m. in Mumbai.  Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley economists have cut forecasts for global
growth this year and said the U.S. and Europe are “dangerously
close to recession.” JPMorgan Chase & Co. said the  U.S. economy 
may expand less than previously projected in the next two
quarters as consumer sentiment drops and the housing market
fails to gain momentum.  “Gold is the currency of the world at the moment, with the
world convinced that the monetary and fiscal authorities are
likely to do nothing right and everything wrong when it comes to
resolving the world’s current fiscal problems,”  Dennis Gartman ,
the economist who correctly forecast 2008’s commodities slump,
said in his daily Gartman Letter on Aug. 19.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch raised its 12-month gold
price target to $2,000 an ounce on the increased chance of a
third round of so-called quantitative easing in the U.S., it
said in a report dated Aug. 9.  Bernanke Speculation  Growing speculation that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  will signal this week at a conference in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , that the Fed will increase monetary stimulus to boost
the economy is prompting investors to buy gold,  Edel Tully , an
analyst at UBS AG in  London , said in a report.  “Should Bernanke put a damper on QE3 expectations, the
yellow metal could well experience the correction that potential
investors have been impatiently awaiting,” she said.  About 60 percent of clients surveyed by UBS expect gold to
be trading above $1,800 by the end of this year. The survey was
conducted in the first two weeks of August, it said on Aug. 16.  “A developed world with slower growth, a large fiscal
deficit and near zero rates over the next few years,
inflationary pressures in emerging economies, and larger
political and economic uncertainty bodes well for history’s
oldest form of wealth,”  Barclays Capital  said on Aug. 18.  Soros, Mindich  Soros and  Eric Mindich ’s Eton Park Capital Management LP
cut their holdings in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest ETP
backed by gold, in the second quarter, while Paulson held on to
his 31.5 million shares, a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission showed Aug. 16.  Central banks added 155 tons valued at about $8.18 billion
to reserves in the first five months of the year, according to
the World Gold Council.  Thailand ,  South Korea  and Kazakhstan
added gold valued at about $2.38 billion to their reserves.
Thailand’s reserves rose to about 4.07 million ounces (126.6
tons) in June, from about 3.523 million ounces in May, according
to the Bank of Thailand.  The Bank of  Korea  bought 25 tons over a one-month period
from June to July, lifting reserves to 39.4 tons, the bank said.
Kazakhstan’s holdings increased by 3.1 tons, according to data
from the  International Monetary Fund .  Central Banks  “Gold may rise to $2,000 or more by 2011-end if the global
economy remains the same,” said Prithviraj Kothari, president
of the Bombay Bullion Association. “Central banks are also
buying gold, which is positive.”  Gold imports by  India , the biggest consumer, may reach a
record of as much as 1,000 tons this year as investors seek a
haven against inflation and volatility in stock markets, Kothari
said. Consumption rose to a record 963.1 tons last year, driving
bullion imports to the highest ever at 958 tons, according to
the gold council.  Purchases climbed to 267 tons in the three months ended
June 30 from 167 tons a year earlier, as investment demand
jumped 78 percent to 108.5 tons, the second-highest quarter on
record, the council said on Aug. 18.  Gold may surge as high as $2,400 an ounce next year as the
precious metal is still in the “middle of a bull run,” said
Jeffrey Rhodes, chief executive officer at INTL Commodities LLC.
Bullion may drop to as low as $1,725 an ounce as early as next
month before rebounding, he said.  “It is definitely in a bubble territory and I don’t think
the bubble will burst, but it will deflate a bit,” Rhodes told
the gold conference. “Trees do not grow to heaven.”  GFMS is owned by  Thomson Reuters  Corp. and Bloomberg
competes with Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal
information and trading systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  