-- 
U.S. Company Credit Risk Increases to Highest Level in 14 Months

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-08-22T21:48:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/goldman-debt-swaps-jump-as-u-s-company-credit-risk-rises-to-14-month-high.html
Investor confidence in U.S.
corporate credit deteriorated to the worst level since June 2010
and the cost to protect  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  debt jumped
following a report that Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein 
hired a defense attorney.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 4 basis points to a
mid-price of 126.8 basis points as of 5:35 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. Credit-
default swaps on Goldman Sachs jumped 40 basis points to 255.4
basis points, the highest level since April 2009, according to
data provider CMA.  Traders earlier pushed down the benchmark gauge of
investment-grade debt risk, which typically falls when investor
confidence improves and rises when it deteriorates, before the
 Federal Reserve  holds its annual symposium in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming this weekend. The index reversed as credit risk at
finance companies including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  gained.  “Monday saw a tug-o-war of themes that pitted financial
sector concerns against bullish sentiment tied to speculation
Bernanke’s speech on Friday will deliver a message of further
stimulus,”  Adrian Miller , fixed-income strategist at Miller
Tabak Roberts Securities LLC in New York, said in an e-mail.  The index has soared from 96.3 at the end of July as
investor concern mounted that the global economic recovery is
slowing.  Goldman Sachs said Blankfein and other people hired
attorneys in relation to a U.S. probe of matters raised by the
Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.  Justice Department  “As is common in such situations, Mr. Blankfein and other
individuals who were expected to be interviewed in connection
with the  Justice Department ’s inquiry into certain matters
raised in the PSI report hired counsel at the outset,” the New
York-based company said today in an e-mailed statement.  Contracts linked to the debt of Bank of America, based in
Charlotte,  North Carolina , added 38.6 basis points to 380.6, the
data show.  Investor confidence in high-yield, high-risk debt plunged
for a third day to the lowest level in almost two years. The
Markit CDX North America High Yield Index, which falls as
investor confidence deteriorates, dropped 0.6 percentage point
to 91.8 percent of face value, the lowest level since Sept. 10,
2009. High-yield, high-risk bonds and loans are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  