-- 
Goldman Cuts U.S. Full-Year Growth Forecast on Signs Recovery Has Stalled

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-08-22T09:44:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/goldman-cuts-u-s-growth-forecast-on-signs-recovery-has-stalled.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lowered its
forecast for U.S. economic growth in 2011 on signs the recovery
in the world’s largest economy lost momentum.  The U.S. will expand 1.5 percent this year, down from a
previous forecast of 1.7 percent, Goldman economists in  New York 
including Jan Hatzius said in a note published on Aug. 19.
Credit Suisse was also among banks lowering growth forecasts this 
month.  Federal Reserve surveys showed manufacturing in
Philadelphia and New York contracted in August, while a Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment
plunged to a three-decade low. Goldman’s change comes amid a
monthlong drop in global equities and as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  prepares to speak at the bank’s annual symposium in
 Jackson Hole , Wyoming this week.  The data “are pointing to even weaker growth ahead,” the
economists said. While Bernanke “is likely to be downbeat about
recent developments, we expect that he will still argue that the
conditions for an acceleration later this year and in 2012
remain in place.”  Goldman forecasts third-quarter growth of 1 percent and a
fourth-quarter expansion of 1.5 percent, down from an earlier
projection for 2 percent growth in each quarter.  Credit Suisse lowered its forecast for U.S. third-quarter
growth to 1.5 percent from from 3.3 percent, and for the fourth
quarter to 2.2 percent from 3.1 percent, according to a research
note dated Aug. 18. The bank cut its projection for global
growth to 3.9 percent in 2011 from 4.1 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  predicts 1 percent growth in U.S.
gross domestic product in the fourth quarter, down from an
earlier projection of 2.5 percent, the bank said last week.
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  lowered its 2011 growth forecast to 1.6 percent
from 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  