-- 
Gold Gains to Record on Haven Demand; Copper, Corn, Soy Climb

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-08-22T04:05:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/gold-gains-to-record-on-haven-demand-copper-corn-soy-climb.html
Gold advanced to a record as concern
the global economy will falter spurred demand for a haven
investment and copper climbed on expectation of Chinese buying.
Corn and soybeans advanced on speculation hot weather in the
U.S. will cut crops.  Gold for immediate delivery climbed as much as 1.5 percent
to a record $1,879.05 an ounce and December-delivery futures in
 New York  gained 1.6 percent to an all-time high of $1,881.90.
Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal exchange
rose by as much as 0.7 percent to $8,890 a metric ton.  “Gold has support given the risks are still there so I
wouldn’t want to short gold in the current environment,” said
Jeremy Friesen, commodity strategist at Societe Generale SA.  The metal is up 16 percent in August, heading for its best
monthly performance since September 1999. Central bankers from
around the world will meet in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming this week
amid speculation Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may
signal a third-round of asset purchases to boost the faltering
recovery.  Copper in  London  climbed for a second day on speculation
that  China , the biggest consumer of the metal, will keep buying
on price dips after stockpiles in the  Shanghai  warehouses fell
for the first time in six weeks.  “The expectation of increasing Chinese demand in September
is competing with a generally negative market environment due to
concerns over the European debt crisis and the  U.S. economy ,”
Lian Zheng, an analyst at Xinhu Futures Co., said from Shanghai.  China’s General Administration of Customs will release
commodities trade data for July at 2:30 p.m. Shanghai time that
may show refined copper imports gained for a second month, based
on preliminary data issued on Aug. 10.  Grains Climb  Corn for December delivery advanced 0.7 percent to $7.305 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade and soybeans for November
delivery rose 0.4 percent to $13.735 a bushel. Prices advanced
for a second day on concern that a week-long crop survey will
show signs of declining yields in the U.S., curbing supply from
the world’s largest shipper of both crops.  Brent oil fell in London, narrowing its record premium to
U.S. futures, as investors bet that Libyan production may
recover after rebels entered the capital Tripoli in a push to
force out leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  The European benchmark contract tumbled as much as 1.8
percent amid speculation Qaddafi’s regime is crumbling, while
New York crude rebounded after a fourth week of declines.
 Libya ’s output dropped to 100,000 barrels a day last month, a
Bloomberg News survey showed. That’s less than 10 percent of the
1.59 million barrels the nation pumped in January, before the
uprising that started in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  