-- 
Libya Needs ‘Inclusive’ Dialogue, Elections, South African Government Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-08-22T10:54:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/libya-needs-inclusive-dialogue-elections-south-africa-says.html
South Africa ’s government denied
reports that it’s negotiating the exit of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and urged the National Transitional Council to start an
“all-inclusive” dialogue leading to democratic elections.  “With the imminent fall of the government of Colonel
Qaddafi, we wish to urge the interim authority in Tripoli to
immediately institute an all-inclusive inter-Libyan political
dialogue,” South Africa’s foreign minister, Maite Nkoana- Mashabane, told reporters in Johannesburg today. “If the Tripoli
government falls there will be some semblance of authority
formed, including elements of the TNC and elements from
Tripoli.”  South Africa doesn’t know Qaddafi’s whereabouts and hasn’t
offered him asylum, Nkoana-Mashabane said, denying media reports
that it had a plane in  Libya  to airlift Qaddafi to safety. The
government in  Pretoria  sent an aircraft to Libya to evacuate
embassy staff and other  South Africans  from Tripoli to Tunisia,
she said.  Libyan rebels swept into Tripoli yesterday in a bid to end
Qaddafi’s 42-year autocratic rule following months of fighting
and airstrikes by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. While
South Africa opposed NATO’s bombing campaign, it supported the
United Nations resolution authorizing military action in the
North African nation.  Nkoana-Mashabane didn’t say whether South Africa recognized
the transitional council as the legitimate authority in Libya,
pledging to continue talks with all parties involved. Libyans
should decide their own future and that of Qaddafi, she said.  “If this government falls, there is no government,”
Nkoana-Mashabane said. “As honest peacebrokers we had no reason
to create a state within a state. We were talking to both the
TNC and Tripoli and we will continue in that vein.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  