-- 
Expatriates Cheer Qaddafi Son’s Arrest From His Own North London Mansion

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-08-22T15:12:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/libyans-cheer-qaddafi-son-al-islam-s-arrest-from-his-own-london-mansion.html
Mohammed Fitouri and his housemates
burst out into their quiet north  London  street this morning to
cheer the capture of Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, the Libyan
dictator’s son who they and the police say owns the seven-
bedroom house where they’ve squatted since March.  Libyan rebels swept into Tripoli, the capital, and declared
today that Muammar Qaddafi’s 42-year rule is over. Saif al-Islam
was arrested in the city, said Mohamad Al Akari, an adviser to
the National Transitional Council. Another son, Mohammed, was
also detained,  Al Jazeera  reported. Al Arabiya television said a
third Qaddafi son, Saadi, has been arrested.  “We were outside celebrating at 5 a.m.,” Fitouri said
through a ground-floor window of the Hampstead Green mansion in
the borough of Camden. “We were up until 7 a.m. watching the
news. There was hugging and shouting, we’re so happy.”  Libyan-born Fitouri and at least 10 others moved into the
10 million-pound ($16 million) house in one of London’s most
affluent neighborhoods on March 9 after a newspaper identified
the owner. The group initially called itself “Topple the
Tyrants” and hung banners from the windows criticizing the
regime and supporting the North Atlantic Treaty Organization-
backed movement to overthrow it.  The squatters lowered their profile as the battle for  Libya 
wore on. The only sign of the house’s occupants today was the
word “Libya” spelled out on the front door in badges depicting
the country’s flag.  Frozen Asset  The registered owner of the property is Capitana Seas Ltd.,
a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands that paid
10 million pounds for the house on May 11, 2009, according to
the title deed. As of March 10, 2011, the owner can’t dispose of
the house without the consent of the Treasury’s Asset Freezing
Unit, according to land registry documents.  London’s Metropolitan Police consider the property to
belong to Saif al-Islam, spokesman  Richard Jones  said in March.  The Treasury has frozen 12 billion pounds of Libyan assets
since the conflict began, information obtained by Bloomberg
through a U.K. Freedom of Information Act request showed.  The Georgian-style mansion on Winnington Close was listed
for sale in July 2009 for 12.5 million pounds, according to
 Zoopla.co.uk , a property website. Zoopla now values it at 3.1
million pounds.  “My husband saw them outside the house at 5 a.m.
celebrating,” neighbor Michelle Niarchos said of the squatters.
“I think they’re pretty tired now.”  People inside the house sustained themselves through the
night on a diet of rolling news coverage in Arabic, pots of tea
and pita bread until daybreak, Fitouri said.  “We’re happy that Libya is falling into the hands of the
people,” he said as he pulled a blind down to cover the window.
“I’m tired and I’m going to bed now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 