-- 
Qaddafi Eludes Rebels Who Seize Compound

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-08-24T05:18:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/libyan-rebels-search-for-qaddafi-after-taking-control-of-most-of-tripoli.html
Libyan rebels seized control of
Muammar Qaddafi’s compound in Tripoli, capturing weapons and
documents, as one of their leaders sought to avert a wave of
retribution against former regime supporters.  Mahmoud Jebril, a member of the National Transitional
Council, called on Libyans to unite and build a “modern
nation” without acting on their own to settle scores.  “After the transition and elections, people who suffered
injustices will regain their rights,” he said at a press
conference in Doha, Qatar.  Rebels broadened their hunt of the elusive Qaddafi as fighting
against regime loyalists flared elsewhere, including around the
southern city of Sabha, rebel officials said. Sabha is a  regime 
stronghold that is home to a major military base.  “As long as Qaddafi remains in Libya, then there will be
no security,” Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, vice president of the rebel
National Transitional Council, said in a telephone interview
from Benghazi. “He must be finished off, either through death
or capture.”  Oil advanced for a second day amid signs that a recovery in
Libyan crude production may take longer than expected. Output
from Libya, which has the largest proven reserves of any African
country, dropped to 100,000 barrels a day in July, down from the
1.6 million barrels pumped before the uprising started.  Oil Prices   Crude for October delivery rose $1.02 to settle at $85.44 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures have fallen
6.5 percent this year.  Brent oil for October settlement gained 95 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $109.31 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $23.87 to U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures,
down from a record settlement of $26.21 on Aug. 19.  Gunfire and explosions were heard from the presidential
headquarters in Bab Al Aziziya after the rebels broke into the
heavily fortified compound and raised their flag there, Al
Arabiya television reported. NBC News broadcast live reports
from inside the compound, in which gunshots could be heard as
crowds of young men ran into buildings and around the grounds of
the compound. Much of the gunfire was celebratory.  Rebel fighters, some in black-painted jeeps with mounted
machine guns, were shown in news broadcasts entering the broken
gates of the compound, flashing victory signs. A group of
fighters tried to tear down a statue of a gold fist holding a
jet, which Qaddafi used as backdrop for speeches. Rebels also
advanced across a lawn past a destroyed guard house that may
have been hit by NATO bombing.  ‘Feels Perfect’  “It feels perfect,” said Marwan Elgajiji, a rebel fighter
in Misrata, said as he watched the images on TV from the
capital. “Even if they don’t catch him, they have taken his
house so Tripoli is with the revolutionaries.”  Qaddafi spokesman Moussa Ibrahim remained defiant,
promising resistance for “months and years” in a speech
broadcast by Arabiya television. The regime had carried out
preparations “to transform  Libya  into an open resistance arena
till we reach victory,” he said. Forces loyal to Qaddafi had
left the presidential compound as it did not “represent any
military or logistical benefit,” Ibrahim said.  The news from Tripoli resonated across the region. In
Yemen, tens of thousands protested in various cities to cheer
the end of the Qaddafi regime and demand serious moves to end
the rule of President Ali Abdullah Saleh.  Son and Heir  “Saleh after Qaddafi,” they chanted as some set off
fireworks in celebration. “My people, your victory is
upcoming.”  The Libyan rebels’ gains came after intense fighting in
parts of Tripoli amid conflicting claims of who controlled the
largest share of the city.  Qaddafi’s son and presumed heir, Saif al-Islam, who rebels
said they had arrested Aug. 21, appeared in public late Aug. 22
in the capital and told the  BBC  his father -- who delivered a
defiant audio message on state television August 21 -- was safe.  The only other word on Qaddafi’s situation came yesterday
from World Chess Federation head Kirsan Ilyumzhinov, who played
chess with Qaddafi during a June visit to the Libyan capital. He
said that he spoke with Qaddafi and his son Mohammed by phone
yesterday at about 6 p.m. Moscow time.  ‘Fight to End’  Qaddafi has “no plans to leave” Libya and will “fight to
the end,” Ilyumzhinov said in a telephone interview. Qaddafi’s
son, Mohammed, called Ilyumzhinov in his car in Moscow from a
satellite phone in Tripoli and then handed the receiver to his
father. The conversation lasted about 90 seconds, Ilyumzhinov
said.  Nicaragua , which supported Qaddafi as the uprising against
him grew, would grant him political asylum if requested, Bayardo
Arce, an adviser to Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega, told
reporters in Managua.  Roland Lavoie, a NATO spokesman, said yesterday he would
“not risk going into percentages” on how much of Tripoli the
Libyan rebels held. The fighting in the capital is “very
serious and very dangerous,” he said.  Regime ‘Remnants’  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which began its air
campaign in March, and rebel leaders have downplayed the
surprise visit by Saif al-Islam to the Rixos Hotel, where many
foreign journalists are based.  “A brief appearance in the dead of night doesn’t indicate,
to me, somebody who’s in control of a country or capital, or
anything much at all really,” NATO spokeswoman Oana Lungescu
told reporters yesterday in Brussels. “It shows that the
remnants of the regime are on the run.”  Rebels have encountered resistance in areas around the
capital. Opposition fighters were deployed Aug. 22 to areas
south of Zliten, 150 kilometers (93 miles) southeast of Tripoli,
and missiles have been fired at the coastal town of Misrata, to
the east, from Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte.  Qaddafi’s forces launched an unguided, short-range missile
at the eastern city of Brega two days ago, for the first time
during the conflict, NATO spokeswoman Carmen Romero told
reporters yesterday in Brussels. Rebels have gained hold of the
eastern edge of Brega, NATO said.  Transition  Poor security at the port in Tripoli delayed the docking of
a rescue ship, leaving thousands of foreigners stranded at their
embassies, the Geneva-based International Organization for
Migration said in a statement yesterday.  Even as the fighting continued, rebel and western leaders
looked ahead to a transition of power. U.S. President  Barack Obama  said Aug. 22 that “the Qaddafi regime is coming to an
end, and the future of Libya is in the hands of its people.”  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  urged the  United
Nations Security Council  yesterday to pass a resolution allowing
countries to release frozen Libyan assets to help finance
reconstruction “as soon as possible.”  The U.S. is working to release up to $1.5 billion of frozen
Libyan assets, State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said
at a briefing in  Washington .  Arab foreign ministers, meeting in Doha, yesterday called
on the UN Security Council to permit the release of $2.5 billion
in frozen Libyan assets to be used to meet humanitarian needs
before the holiday of Eid al-Fitr in a week, marking the end of
the Muslim fasting period of Ramadan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  