-- 
ICC in The Hague Holds Talks on Qaddafi’s Son Saif Al-Islam

-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 
2011-08-22T08:27:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/icc-in-the-hague-holds-talks-on-qaddafi-s-son-saif-al-islam-1-.html
The  International Criminal Court  in
The Hague is in talks with the Libyan transitional government
about the surrender of Saif Al-Islam Qaddafi to the court after
his capture by Libyan rebels.  “We’re discussing his surrender,” Fadi El-Abdallah,
spokesman for the court, said in an interview over the phone
today. “There are three arrest warrants and there’s no arrest
warrant for the other son,” El-Abdallah said. Qaddafi’s second
son, Mohammed, was also arrested, Al Jazeera television said.  The court issued arrest warrants June 27 for  Muammar Qaddafi , his son Saif and military intelligence chief Abdullah
al-Senussi. The three men are wanted for killing, injuring,
arresting and imprisoning hundreds of civilians during anti-
regime protests that began in February.  Libyan rebels swept into Tripoli as the battle to end his
42 years of autocratic rule arrived at the doorstep of his
presidential compound. Government forces offered little
resistance and celebrations broke out in Green Square, site of
pro-Qaddafi rallies in recent months. Clashes also erupted
outside his headquarters in Tripoli, Agence-France Presse
reported.  Anders Fogh Rasmussen, secretary-general of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization, which has backed the rebels with
aerial bombing since March, said in a statement that the
“regime is clearly crumbling.”  Rebel leaders offered conflicting information on the
whereabouts of Qaddafi, who seized power in the oil-rich North
African nation in a 1969 coup.  The court in  The Hague  does not have police powers. His
arrest would have to be made by the Libyan rebels or by another
nation’s police if they leave  Libya .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fred Pals at   fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  