-- 
Microsoft Says Motorola’s Android Phones Infringe Its Patents

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-08-22T17:33:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/microsoft-says-motorola-s-android-phones-infringe-its-patents.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest
software maker, began arguing its U.S. trade case that Android-
based smartphones made by Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. use
technology derived from Microsoft inventions.  In a trial that began today before the International Trade
Commission in Washington, Microsoft accused Motorola Mobility of
infringing seven of its patents and requested a halt to imports
of certain Motorola phones. The ITC has the power to stop
imports of products that violate U.S. patent rights.  The case is the first smartphone dispute to be heard by the
agency since  Google Inc. (GOOG)  said Aug. 15 it would buy Motorola
Mobility for $12.5 billion to obtain patents that could be used
as a bulwark against a surge of lawsuits targeting handsets and
tablet computers that use Google’s Android operating system.  “We have a responsibility to our employees, customers,
partners and shareholders to safeguard our intellectual
property,”  David Howard , Microsoft’s corporate vice president
and deputy general counsel for litigation, said in an e-mail.
“Motorola is infringing our patents and we are confident that
the ITC will rule in our favor.”  Motorola Mobility is “vigorously defending” itself
“against Microsoft’s patent attack business strategy,”
 Jennifer Erickson , a Motorola Mobility spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. “We have also brought legal actions of our own in the
U.S. and in  Europe  to address Microsoft’s large scale of
infringement of Motorola Mobility’s patents.”  Smartphone Market  Microsoft’s claim against Libertyville, Illinois-based
Motorola Mobility is one of more than a dozen smartphone cases
before the ITC, as companies seek to use patents to gain a
bigger share of a market projected by researcher IHS Inc. to
reach $206.6 billion this year. Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft makes its own mobile operating system, Windows Phone
7, which competes with Android and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  The Android platform accounted for 43.3 percent of the
smartphone market last quarter, according to Stamford,
Connecticut-based research firm  Gartner Inc. (IT)  Microsoft, with
less than 2 percent of the market, is counting on an agreement
with Espoo, Finland-based  Nokia Oyj (NOK)  to put Windows Mobile on its
phones to increase market share.  Cases brought by Microsoft and Cupertino, California-based
Apple are targeting devices that run on Android. Microsoft,
which contends all Android devices use its technology, also has
a case against  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , targeting the Nook reader.  Testimony in today’s Motorola Mobility trial focused on
details about functions that Microsoft calls “essential to the
smartphone user experience,” including ways to synchronize e-
mail, calendars and contacts; schedule meetings; and notify
applications of changes in signal strength and battery power.  Block Imports  Microsoft has asked the agency to block imports of Motorola
phones including the Droid 2, Droid X, Cliq XT, Devour, Backflip
and Charm. Administrative Law Judge Theodore Essex is scheduled
to release his findings in the case Nov. 4, and the commission
has a target to complete its investigation by March 5, according
to information on the agency’s website.  Mountain View , California-based Google, which wasn’t named
in the complaint, accused Microsoft of disclosing Google’s
source code to a Microsoft expert without first letting Google
know. Essex on Aug. 15 denied Google’s request that sanctions be
imposed on Microsoft, saying Google had failed to provide any
information that it has made a “reasonable, good-faith effort
to resolve the matter with Microsoft.”  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Mobile Devices,
Associated Software and Components Thereof, 337-744, U.S.
International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  