-- 
Micro Focus Ends Takeover Talks, Resumes Share Buyback

-- B y   B e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-08-22T15:41:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/micro-focus-ends-takeover-talks-resumes-share-buyback-program.html
Micro Focus International Plc (MCRO) , a
U.K. software provider, said it ended takeover discussions and
will instead resume a share buyback program.  The Newbury, England-based company had set a deadline of
Aug. 19 for final offers after receiving a preliminary approach
in April, it said today in a statement. The offer period has
expired, it said.  “As a board we didn’t believe that short-term turmoil in
the stock price was any reason why a price should be lower than
the value of the company, so our view of the value of the
company is no different as it was back in April,” Chairman
Kevin Loosemore said today in a conference call. “We are very
conscious that private equity buyers by their very nature will
always look to get the best possible price because their aim is
to buy cheap and get the best possible return, but we actually
got no firm offers on Friday.”  The company may buy back more than 12 million common
shares, having already bought more than 8 million, according to
the statement.  “Micro Focus management faces the challenge of rebuilding
 market sentiment  towards a stock that has been exhaustively
examined and cast aside by potential private equity buyers,”
analysts from Jefferies International Limited wrote in a note to
clients today. “Substantial operational and strategic issues
persist and we expect continued pressure on organic growth rates
and margins.”  Micro Focus shares fell 3.4 percent to 254 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close in London trading, after earlier falling as much
as 12 percent. The stock is down 35 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of 502.5 million pounds ($826
million).  Bain Capital LLC and Advent International Corp. were among
private-equity funds that had made an approach for the software
provider, the company said in a statement in May.  Bain agreed to buy MYOB Pty Ltd., an Australian business
management software maker, for an undisclosed sum this weekend,
the U.S. private equity fund said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Edwards in  London  at 
 bedwards35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  