-- 
Intesa Funding Not Affected by Italy Debt Contagion, CEO Says

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-08-22T16:57:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/intesa-funding-not-affected-by-italy-debt-contagion-ceo-says.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ’s ability to
raise funds hasn’t been affected by the spread of the region’s
debt crisis to  Italy , said Chief Executive Officer  Corrado Passera .  “I don’t see any risk of a credit crunch,” Passera said
at a conference in Rimini, Italy. “Lending to families and
companies has gone better in Italy than in the euro region in
the second quarter. We are prepared for difficult moments.
That’s why we did a capital increase.”  Shares of Intesa, one of the biggest holders of Italian
government debt, have fallen more than 40 percent since the
beginning of July as investors began to dump Italy’s bonds on
concern the country would become the next victim of the region’s
debt crisis. Passera said the stock has been excessively
punished because it’s “seen as a proxy for Italy.”  Intesa shares declined 2.7 percent to 1.102 euros today,
the lowest close since July 1997.  “Intesa is mainly focused in Italy, and is considered the
systemic bank in the country, so it’s obvious that it has to
show a positive view on the country when it is under fire from
foreign investors,” said Wolfram Mrowetz, chairman of Alisei
SIM in Milan, which oversees 200 million euros ($287 million)
and doesn’t own shares of the bank.  Passera said he was confident that Italy would weather the
crisis and that the bank had increased its holding of  government
bonds  in the first half. Intesa boosted its Italian bond
holdings to 64 billion euros from 61 billion euros in the first
half, according to its earnings presentations.  “The negative evaluation of European government bonds and
in the last weeks of Italian government bonds doesn’t help, but
we are convinced about the value and the validity of these
investments,” Passera said.  The chief executive of Italy’s second-biggest bank said
that he is interested in investing in  Poland  if the price were
“reasonable,” and there was “nothing to announce” as far as
a possible bid for Bank Millennium SA, a Polish unit of Banco
Comercial Portugues SA.  “We have to look and find investment opportunities at
prices that are interesting to us,” he said. “There is nothing
to announce as of today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Rimini at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
6325 or  cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Davis  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net  