-- 
Investors Increasing South Africa Rate-Cut Bets as Global Economy Slows

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-22T12:03:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/investors-increasing-south-africa-rate-cut-bets-as-global-economy-slows.html
Investors are increasing bets  South
Africa ’s central bank will reduce its benchmark  interest rate 
even as inflation quickens amid signs the global economy is
slowing and  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening.  Forward-rate agreements, which investors use to lock in
borrowing costs, are pricing in a 50 percent possibility of a
rate cut in the first half of 2012, Tradition Analytics
strategists led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote
in a research note today.  Global stocks have tumbled and U.S. Treasury yields are at
record lows as speculation of a third round of Federal Reserve
bond purchases fails to dent concern the world’s biggest economy
is slowing. Gold rallied for a sixth day to a record on concern
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s resistance to common euro-area
bonds will prolong the region’s debt crisis.  “Growth risks abroad are more than outweighing price
inflation at this stage,” the analysts wrote. “Looking at the
longer portion of the FRA curve, we have not seen it this flat
since a year ago.”  Three-month forward-rate agreements starting in May next
year dropped 10.5 basis points, or 0.105 percentage point, to
5.29 percent today, the lowest in at least 10 years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The one-year Johannesburg
interbank agreed rate declined 13 basis points to 5.96 percent.  July Inflation  Statistics South Africa may report on Aug. 24 that South
Africa’s consumer price index rose 5.2 percent in June, from 5
percent in May, according to the median estimate of 18
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The central bank’s mandate is
to keep inflation in a 3 to 6 percent target range, though it
also takes into account the effect of monetary policy on
inflation.  Central bank Governor Gill Marcus said in a joint statement
with Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  on Aug. 11 the central bank
will “actively monitor” global developments and was ready to
take action to ensure stability and liquidity in financial
markets.  South Africa’s economy expanded an annualized 4.8 percent
in the first quarter, the fastest pace in a year, from 4.5
percent in the final three months of last year, the government
statistics agency said on May 31.  Since then most economic data has pointed to a slowdown,
with the joblessness rate rising to 25.7 percent in the second
quarter, from 25 percent in the previous three months, and
manufacturing growth slowing to 0.9 percent in June, from a
revised 1 percent the month before. Retail sales rose 2.2
percent in June, below the average sales growth in the first
quarter.  Rate Revisions  “While it may be too early to discuss a possible rate cut
in South Africa, the longer the current downturn in financial
markets unfolds, the greater the threat,”  Benoit Anne , head of
emerging-markets strategy at Societe Generale SA in  London , said
in a research note. “Domestic conditions also support a
continued re-pricing of South African money markets.”  Standard Bank Group Ltd., Nedbank Group Ltd. and Rand
Merchant bank have revised their outlook for interest rates in
recent weeks, saying the central bank will likely delay an
increase until the second quarter of 2012. Rand Merchant Bank, a
unit of FirstRand Ltd., South Africa’s second-biggest lender,
said the risk of a rate cut is increasing.  “The market is starting to look at the prospect of a rate
cut locally,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, currency
strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in a
research note today. “We still think that this will only
materialize when it is clear that the world is experiencing a
double dip recession.”  South African bonds extended a six-day rally today, driving
the yield on the benchmark four-year notes to a record low 6.47
percent, on expectation borrowing costs will stay low.
Wednesday’s inflation data may fuel speculation of a rate cut,
boosting bonds, Tradition said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  