-- 
Iran Starts Transfer of Centrifuges to Fordo Nuclear Site

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-08-22T19:32:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/iran-starts-transfer-of-centrifuges-to-fordo-nuclear-site-1-.html
Iran  started transferring
centrifuges from its Natanz nuclear facility to the Fordo atomic
plant, its second site for enriching uranium, state television
cited Fereydoun Abbasi, the head of Iran’s Atomic Energy
Organization, as saying.  “The site is being made ready and a series of centrifuges
have already been transferred,” the  website  of Iran’s state
television today quoted Abbasi as saying. “We aren’t rushing
and we seek to observe technical standards.”  Iranian officials announced in June plans to install an
initial series of centrifuges at the Fordo nuclear facility
within “months” and said they already informed the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  about the project.  “These reports are troubling,” U.S. State Department
spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told reporters in  Washington , when
asked about the installation of centrifuges.  Iran’s failure to comply with United Nations resolutions to
suspend the country’s nuclear enrichment program has “given us
all in the international community reason to doubt its
intentions,” Nuland said.  The existence of the Fordo plant, built into the side of a
mountain south of Tehran, the capital, was disclosed in
September 2009, heightening concern among the U.S. and its
allies who say Iran’s activities may be a cover for the
development of atomic weapons. The Persian Gulf country rejects
the allegation, saying it needs nuclear technology to secure
energy for its growing population.  Centrifuges are fast-spinning machines that enrich uranium
for use as a nuclear fuel by separating its isotopes. Enriched
uranium at higher concentrations can form the core of a bomb.
The work is at the heart of the dispute over  Iran’s nuclear
program .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 