-- 
Hurricane Irene Sets Sights on South Carolina

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-22T19:03:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/irene-sets-sights-on-coast-of-south-carolina-may-become-major-hurricane.html
Hurricane Irene will pick up
strength as it moves toward the Bahamas on a path that may take
it to  South Carolina  by week’s end and to the Northeast next
week, forecasters said.  Irene, with maximum winds of 80 miles (129 kilometers) per
hour, up from 75 earlier today, was about 150 miles west-
northwest of San Juan, Puerto Rico, as of 2 p.m. East Coast time
and moving west-northwest at 12 mph, according to an  advisory 
from the Miami-based National Hurricane Center.  “I don’t see any roadblocks to intensification over the
next four or five days,” said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of
Weather Underground Inc. in Ann Arbor,  Michigan . “The ocean
temperatures are 1 to 1.5 degrees warmer than average this year.
Climatologically, conditions are conducive for strong hurricanes
tracking far to the north this year.”  The  current track forecast  predicts Irene will hug the
eastern  Florida  coast and hit South Carolina on Aug. 27 as at
least a Category 3 hurricane, which is considered a major storm.
The last major storm to strike the U.S. was Hurricane Wilma in
2005. With winds of at least 111 mph, “devastating damage will
occur” at landfall, according to the center.  Error Rates  Tracks have an error rate of 250 miles five days out and
200 miles four days out, said Masters, who began his career
flying on National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
hurricane reconnaissance planes. One such plane will investigate
Irene later and the results should improve the computer model
error rate by 20 percent, he said.  There is a chance Irene may pass over  Long Island  next week
as a strong tropical storm, Masters said.  “The storm is not likely to stop in the Carolinas,”
meteorologist Alex Sosnowski wrote on AccuWeather Inc.’s
website. “It is very possible strong tropical storm or even
hurricane conditions will continue to spread up the Atlantic
Seaboard.”  Earlier today, forecasters thought the storm was heading to
Florida. However, as they receive more information “the current
guidance lessens the threat to south Florida,” according to the
hurricane center.  The storm probably won’t enter the  Gulf of Mexico , home to
31 percent of U.S. oil output and 7 percent of natural gas.  Gulf Threat Eased  “It looks like most of the models are looking somewhere
along the East Coast from Florida up to  North Carolina ,” said
Travis Hartman, meteorologist with MDA EarthSat Weather in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland . “As far as energy purposes, it looks
like the Gulf is going to get away from this one.”  The center expects the hurricane to pass just north of
Hispaniola, home to  Haiti  and the Dominican Republic, later
today. Irene will veer northward over the next few days, taking
it across the Bahamas by Aug. 25 and to the east coast of
Florida the next day, the center said.  American Airlines  and its American Eagle regional carrier,
along with JetBlue Airways Corp. and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) ,
canceled a total of 124 flights today between the U.S. and the
Caribbean, as well as among the islands themselves, according to
spokesmen for the companies.  Florida’s orange crop is vulnerable to tropical weather if
the area is exposed to strong winds. Orange-juice prices have
climbed 20 percent from a year earlier as frost and dry weather
hurt the Florida crop. Futures for November delivery closed at
$1.6415 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  last week.  Watching Groves  “It’s a bit of a wait-and-see at this point in time. We
need to get a couple days nearer to see what the damage is going
to be” to the crop, Jim Dale, senior risk meteorologist at
British Weather Services at High Wycombe,  England , said in a
telephone interview.  A tropical storm warning in  Puerto Rico  has been dropped.
Hurricane warnings have been issued for the north coast of the
Dominican Republic and the southwest Bahamas and the Turks and
Caicos Islands, while watches are in force for the north coast
of Haiti. Warnings are issued for areas where hurricane-force
winds are expected within 36 hours and a watch is issued when
there is a possibility of hurricane-force winds within 48.  Hurricane-force winds  extend outward for 30 miles from
Irene’s core, twice as far as earlier today, and tropical-storm-
force winds extend for 185 miles, the center said in its
advisory.  The storm may drop 5 to 10 inches (13 to 26 centimeters) of
rain across the southeastern Bahamas and the Turks and Caicos
islands, with lesser amounts elsewhere, the hurricane center
said.  A storm becomes a hurricane when winds hit 74 mph. The last
hurricane to hit the U.S. was Ike in 2008, which was a Category
2 storm on the five-step Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale
when it went ashore near Galveston,  Texas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  