-- 
Atlantic Hurricane Irene Heads Toward Florida

-- B y   C o n o r   S u l l i v a n   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-22T13:42:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/irene-becomes-first-atlantic-hurricane-of-this-year-heads-toward-florida.html
Hurricane Irene, the first of the
2011 Atlantic season, picked up strength as it moved toward the
southeastern Bahamas on a path that could take it to  Florida  by
week’s end, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  Irene, with maximum winds of 80 miles (129 kilometers) per
hour, was about 90 miles west-northwest of San Juan, Puerto
Rico, as of 9 a.m. East Coast time and is moving west-northwest
at 14 mph, according to an  advisory  by the Miami-based hurricane
center.  “We definitely think it’ll make landfall in the
southeastern part of the U.S.,” said Kristina Pydynowski, a
meteorologist with  State College , Pennsylvania-based AccuWeather
Inc.  Irene may even reach Category 3 strength with sustained
winds of at least 111 mph, she said. The NHC website says a
storm of this magnitude would cause “devastating damage” with
a “high risk of injury or death.”  The NHC  expects  the hurricane to pass over  Puerto Rico  this
morning and reach the north coast of the Dominican Republic
later today. Irene will veer northward over the next few days,
bringing it across the Bahamas by Aug. 25 and the east coast of
Florida the next day, they forecast.  “If you’re in south Florida, now is the time to get
prepared,” the  U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency  said on
its website.  Orange Crop  Florida’s orange crop is vulnerable to tropical weather if
the area is exposed to strong winds. Orange-juice prices have
climbed 20 percent from a year earlier as frost and dry weather
hurt the Florida crop. Futures for November delivery closed at
$1.6415 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  last week.  “Its a bit of a wait-and-see at this point in time. We
need to get a couple days nearer to see what the damage is going
to be” to the orange crop, Jim Dale, senior risk meteorologist
at British Weather Services at High Wycombe,  England , said by
phone.  A hurricane warning in Puerto Rico has been changed to a
tropical storm warning. Hurricane warnings continue for the
north coast of the Dominican Republic, while watches are in
force for the north coast of  Haiti  and the Central Bahamas.
Warnings are issued for areas where hurricane-force winds are
expected in the coming 36 hours and a watch is issued when there
is a possibility of hurricane-force winds in the coming 48
hours.  Storm Winds  Hurricane-force winds extend outward for 15 miles from
Irene’s core, and tropical-storm-force winds extend for 150
miles, mostly to the northwest and northeast of the core, the
center said in its advisory.  The storm may drop 5 to 10 inches (13 to 26 centimeters) of
rain across Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the  Dominican
Republic , Haiti, the southeastern Bahamas and the Turks and
Caicos, with as much as 20 inches in some areas and “life-
threatening flash floods,” the hurricane center said. A storm
surge may lift water levels by as much as 4 feet above normal
tide levels along the coast of the Dominican Republic, it said.  Hovensa LLC’s St. Croix refinery is located on the  U.S.
Virgin Islands , where a tropical storm warning is in effect. The
refinery has a capacity of 525,000 barrels a day.  Gulf Unlikely  The storm probably won’t enter the  Gulf of Mexico , home to
31 percent of U.S. oil output and 7 percent of natural gas.  “It looks like most of the models are looking somewhere
along the east coast from Florida up to  North Carolina ,” said
Travis Hartman, meteorologist with MDA EarthSat Weather in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland . “As far as energy purposes it looks
like the Gulf is going to get away from this one. The Gulf is
probably pretty safe right now.”  A storm becomes a hurricane when winds hit 74 mph. The last
hurricane to hit the U.S. was Ike in 2008, which was a Category
2 storm on the five-step Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale
when it went ashore near Galveston,  Texas . The last major
hurricane to hit the U.S. was in 2005, according to the
hurricane center.  Farther to the west, Tropical Depression Harvey is quickly
weakening over southern  Mexico  and is expected to dissipate by
the end of the day, the hurricane center said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Conor Sullivan in  London  at 
 csullivan39@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  