-- 
Jackson Hole Central Bankers Reflect on QE2 Amid Pressure for New Stimulus

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-08-22T00:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/jackson-hole-central-bankers-reflect-on-qe2-amid-pressure-for-new-stimulus.html
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has big
shoes to fill this week when he speaks at the  Federal Reserve ’s
annual symposium in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming : His own.  Last year, Bernanke hinted that the Fed might embark on a
second round of asset purchases to bolster the recovery, kicking
off a 28 percent rally in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
stocks that ended in a three-year high on April 29.  Now, any boost to the economy from the Fed’s $600 billion
of bond buying is hard to detect, with growth slowing to a less-
than-1-percent annual pace in the first half, the U.S. losing
its top  credit rating  from S&P and stocks falling about 18
percent from their peak.  The deterioration -- coupled with a government that’s
cutting spending and showed itself to be “dysfunctional” ahead
of the debt-ceiling expiration this month -- increases the
pressure on the U.S. central bank to show it can and will help
expansion, according to Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit
Suisse Holdings USA Inc.  Policy makers this month pledged to keep their benchmark
 interest rate  near zero until at least mid-2013 and also said
they “discussed the range of policy tools” available,
signaling they may add to their record stimulus.  Bernanke will be making “a major speech and the chairman
knows the whole world is watching, so if he chooses not to say
very much, the markets and the economy in some broader sense
would be disappointed,” said Soss, a former economist at the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York . “It’s absolutely critical
that the Federal Reserve portray itself as having some relevance
to the economic problems the society faces.”  Record Lows  Soss predicts Bernanke will suggest that the central bank
plans to lengthen the average maturity for its $2.86 trillion of
assets, which would help bring down long-term interest rates.
The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was 2.062
percent at 5:14 p.m. on Aug. 19 in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Yields have fallen to record lows
since the Fed announced its rate pledge on Aug. 9.  Bernanke’s decision about whether to expand his
unprecedented monetary easing comes as he faces the most
internal opposition in his five-year tenure, and after his
earlier measures sparked criticism. The latest bond-purchase
program ignited the harshest political backlash against the
central bank in three decades, with Republican lawmakers saying
the policy risked causing a surge in inflation.  Rare Dissent  Federal Reserve Bank presidents  Charles Plosser  of
Philadelphia, Richard Fisher of Dallas and Narayana Kocherlakota
of Minneapolis all voted against the Fed’s decision to keep the
target for the federal funds rate at zero to 0.25 percent until
at least mid-2013. Plosser and Fisher both said last week the
pledge won’t help spur growth. The last time three policy makers
dissented was in November 1992.  “Our problems are not problems easily addressed by
monetary policy,” Plosser said in an Aug. 17 interview, adding
that the Fed is “risking its credibility because it’s doing
things that don’t work.”  It isn’t clear how much any additional actions would help,
given the Fed has already exhausted many of its tools, said
 Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington,  Massachusetts . The central bank has kept the rate on
overnight loans among banks near zero since December 2008. It
also purchased $1.7 trillion of Treasury and mortgage debt
between December 2008 and March 2010, and the $600 billion of
Treasuries from November through June.  No Rabbits  “Unfortunately, the Fed doesn’t have any rabbits to pull
out of the hat to magically reignite economic growth,” Gault
said. “It is doing what it can, and despite the dissent, that
will probably mean a QE3 program at some point, but its prime
ammunition has already been used.”  Bernanke told Congress on July 13 the Fed does have
stimulus options; these include buying additional securities,
increasing the average maturity of its bond portfolio, lowering
the interest rate on excess reserves and pledging to keep its
balance sheet near a record high for a longer period of time.  He also foreshadowed the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s
Aug. 9 decision to hold interest rates near record lows. The  S&P
500 Index (SPX)  climbed 7.6 percent between Aug. 8 and Aug. 15, and
has since fallen 6.7 percent amid concerns that U.S and global
economic growth are faltering.  “The Fed got a pretty good response” to its decision,
“so I think he’ll try to continue to play his cards in a
measured fashion,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial
economist at Jefferies & Co. in New York, who also predicts the
Fed will increase the average maturity of its portfolio. “We’ll
see something similar to last year.”  May Be Disappointed  The  bond market  already is pricing in an expectation that
the Fed will announce new purchases of $500 billion to $600
billion, Barclays Capital analyst Anshul Pradhan said in an Aug.
12 report. Investors looking for confirmation in Bernanke’s
 Jackson Hole  speech may be disappointed, he said.  While it’s difficult to evaluate whether the last round of
asset purchases, or so-called quantitative easing, helped the
recovery, the program “has to get a high grade” for raising
inflation expectations and diminishing deflation concerns,
McCarthy said.  The cost of living in the U.S. accelerated at an annual
pace of 1.8 percent in July, excluding food and energy costs,
which are typically more volatile. The gain was the largest in
more than a year, according to Labor Department data released
Aug. 18.  Stalling Expansion  The breakeven rate for five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, the yield difference between the
inflation-linked debt and comparable maturity Treasuries, was
1.67 percentage points on Aug. 19, up from 1.13 points on Aug.
24, 2010. The rate, a measure of the outlook for consumer prices
over the life of the securities, has fallen from 2.47 percentage
points April 29 on concerns that the expansion is stalling.  The economy grew at a weaker-than-projected 1.3 percent
annual pace in the second quarter, the Commerce Department said
July 29. Growth in the prior quarter slowed to 0.4 percent, the
weakest three-month period since the recovery began June 2009.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. reduced its estimate for fourth
quarter expansion to 1 percent from the 2.5 percent it
previously predicted and lowered its first quarter 2012 forecast
to 0.5 percent from 1.5 percent,  Michael Feroli , JPMorgan’s
chief U.S. economist in New York, said in an e-mailed note to
clients on Aug. 19.  ‘Elevated’ Risks  Consumer sentiment is falling and the housing market has
failed to gain momentum, he said. Global growth also “has
disappointed and foreign-growth forecasts have been taken
lower,” he added. “Risks of a recession are clearly
elevated.”  Morgan Stanley analysts have cut their estimate for
expansion worldwide this year to 3.9 percent from a previous
prediction of 4.2 percent. Part of the reason was “the drama”
around lifting the U.S. debt ceiling, which helped depress
financial markets and erode business and consumer confidence,
the analysts said in a report last week.  President  Barack Obama  signed a plan to raise the federal
debt limit on Aug. 2, the deadline to avoid a possible default,
after months of wrangling with Congress. The deal would make
$2.4 trillion in deficit cuts over 10 years.  Any new easing by the Fed likely would expose the central
bank to further criticism.  Texas  Governor Rick Perry, who this
month announced his bid for the 2012 Republican presidential
nomination, caused an uproar on Aug. 15 with a comment about
Bernanke increasing monetary stimulus before November next year.  ‘Treasonous’ Behavior  “If this guy prints more money between now and the
election, I don’t know what you would do with him,” Perry said
in Cedar Rapids,  Iowa . “We would treat him pretty ugly down in
Texas. Printing more money to play politics at this particular
time in American history is almost treacherous -- or treasonous
-- in my opinion.”  Bernanke also would have to overcome internal opposition to
additional measures after his rate pledge led to the three
dissents. There is less agreement this year among FOMC members
that further easing is needed than there was a year ago when
Bernanke spoke out, said  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells
Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina. That’s one
reason he predicts the Fed chairman won’t hint at additional
measures in Jackson Hole.  “I kind of doubt there will be anything big and
spectacular announced,” Silvia said. “I don’t think it’s the
right thing to do as a leader because you’re disenfranchising
the people who dissented.”  Still, Bernanke’s decision to pursue the rate pledge
signaled he may expand record monetary stimulus, with or without
the full support of his fellow policy makers.  “He is a man on a mission and that mission is to try to
get this economy back on a more normalized growth trajectory,”
McCarthy said. “They already made their feelings felt and I
don’t think that will stop him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  