-- 
Japan’s Topix Falls to Lowest in Two Years Amid Global Growth Concern

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-08-22T06:51:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/japan-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-after-noda-pledges-action-on-yen.html
Japan ’s Topix index dropped for a
fourth day, falling to its lowest level in more than two years,
as exporters slid on concern global economic growth is slowing.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest automaker, dropped
2.5 percent. Fanuc Corp., which gets 75 percent of its sales
outside of Japan, fell 4.1 percent. Hino Motors Ltd. slumped 4.8
percent after Deutsche Bank AG. cut its investment rating on the
truckmaker.  The Topix slipped 1.2 percent to 742.84 at the 3 p.m. close
of trading in Tokyo, falling to the lowest since March 2009. The
gauge lost 12 percent this month amid concern that U.S. growth
is sputtering and Europe’s debt crisis will damage the banking
system, damping demand in two of Japan’s biggest export markets.  “The outlook for the global economy is so cloudy, and
investors are substantially cautious,” said  Masahiko Sato , an
equity market analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “Investors are
concerned that the global economy won’t end with it just falling
into a soft patch, but will collapse into a recession and
there’ll be a huge decline in demand.”  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slipped 1 percent to 8,628.13
today, erasing earlier gains of as much as 0.4 percent. The
exporter-heavy index advanced briefly after Japanese Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today he’s prepared to take
decisive steps to curb the yen’s appreciation after it rose last
week to a post-World War II high against the dollar.  U.S. Economy  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.3
today. The index fell 1.5 percent on Aug. 19 in  New York  as the
cheapest price-earnings ratios since 2009 failed to lure
investors amid concern the global economy is weakening.  Japanese shares dropped on concern the recovery in the
world’s biggest economy is weakening. A report on Aug. 24 may
show orders for U.S. durable goods excluding transportation fell
0.5 percent in July, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The drop would be the
biggest since February.  Concern about  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis also grew
after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she’ll resist
pressure to back common euro-area bonds as a means to solve the
region’s debt crisis. Investor calls for euro bonds intensified
last week as European stocks plunged to their lowest level in
more than two years.  Exporters Fall  Toyota fell 2.5 percent to 2,700 yen. Fanuc, Japan’s
biggest maker of industrial robots, slid 4.1 percent to 11,650
yen. Hino Motors Ltd. slumped 4.8 percent to 381 yen after
Deutsche Bank lowered its rating on the stock to “hold” from
“buy.”  Trading volume was below average ahead of a meeting of
central bankers this week in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . Record-low
yields on U.S. Treasuries show traders expect Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to signal a third round of asset
purchases, so-called quantitative easing, to boost the economy.  The value of shares traded on the first section of the
Tokyo Stock Exchange was 1.2 trillion yen, about 14 percent less
than this year’s daily average of 1.4 trillion yen.  Japanese stocks fell even after Finance Minister Noda said
he’s prepared to sell the yen to curb its appreciation. The
currency slid against the dollar after Noda’s comments,
declining to 76.74 as of 3:08 p.m. in Tokyo from 76.55 on Aug.
19 in New York.  Among stocks that rose, Chubu Electric Power Co., Japan’s
third-largest utility, advanced 0.4 percent to 1,459 yen after
the Yomiuri newspaper reported the  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation  may provide 100 billion yen ($1.3 billion) of
emergency loans to the company this month. The utility, which
shut its Hamaoka nuclear power plant to strengthen its tsunami
defenses, forecasts a 140 billion yen loss this fiscal year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  