-- 
Japan to Take ’Bold’ Currency Steps: Noda

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-08-22T01:44:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/japan-to-take-bold-steps-on-yen-if-needed-noda.html
Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said the government will take decisive action if needed in
foreign-exchange markets, adding that he has become “more
concerned” about the currency’s appreciation.  “I have become more concerned about the worsening of the
yen’s one-sided movements,” Noda told reporters in  Tokyo  today.
“I will take bold actions if necessary and won’t rule out any
possible options.”  Japan ’s currency weakened in Tokyo today, retreating from a
postwar high of 75.95 per dollar set Aug. 19 in  New York , after
the Nikkei newspaper reported officials were prepared to
intervene if the currency continues to advance. Authorities sold
yen on Aug. 4 to prevent gains from derailing the nation’s
recovery from a record earthquake.  “The effect of verbal intervention won’t last long,” said
 Koji Fukaya , chief currency strategist in Tokyo at Credit Suisse
Group AG, adding that intervention could happen at “any time”
given the yen’s strength. “Japan needs an actual bullet to keep
speculative traders scared. If they talk the talk they need to
walk the walk.”  The yen traded at 76.63 per dollar as of 10:40 a.m. in
Tokyo today. It has risen more than 6 percent in the past three
months, making it the best performer of 10 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the Swiss franc. Noda said the
ministry will examine if speculation is behind the gains in the
currency.  ‘Worrying’ About Yen  Bank of Japan (8301)  Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi said in
Beijing yesterday he was “worrying” about the yen’s gains,
noting also that a stronger currency won’t “necessarily”
damage the economy.  The comments were later clarified by a central bank
official in Tokyo, who said that while the deputy governor
doesn’t see currency gains having a big effect on the economy
immediately, he is concerned about what the effect may
eventually be.  Japan’s  Finance Ministry  probably wants to seek coordinated
action with the central bank to combat the strong yen, according
to Fukaya at Credit Suisse. The BOJ added stimulus by boosting
its credit and asset-buying programs when authorities intervened
on Aug. 4.  The central bank may meet before its planned Sept. 6-7
policy meeting, local media including the Nikkei newspaper
reported. The BOJ may want to wait until next week to weigh
easing policy to gauge financial market movements after U.S.
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke meets his counterparts
this week in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , according to analyst Kiichi Murashima.  “The chance of the BOJ easing policy this week is pretty
low,” said Murashima, chief economist at Citigroup Global
Markets Japan Inc. in Tokyo. “If they were to do it by holding
an emergency meeting it will probably be next week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  