-- 
Jefferson County Won’t Accept Debt Deal That Rules Out Bankruptcy Filing

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-08-22T18:51:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/jefferson-county-won-t-take-debt-deal-that-rules-out-bankruptcy.html
Jefferson County, Alabama, won’t
agree to a deal for restructuring its debt that rules out the
possibility of filing for bankruptcy protection, Commission
President David Carrington said.  Carrington, who is traveling to  New York  this week to speak
with creditors in a failed $3.14 billion sewer bond refinancing,
wants the option open because the county hasn’t shored up its
general fund after a court struck down a wage tax.  “If a condition is we agree to not file Chapter 9, that’s
a nonstarter,” Carrington told reporters today in his
Birmingham office.  Jefferson County, home to Birmingham and more than 658,000
residents, has been in fiscal straits since a sewer-bond
refinancing collapsed more than three years ago during the
credit crisis. The refinancing involved what court-appointed
receiver John Young described in a report as a borrowing binge
to pay for improvements ordered by the federal government.  The county rejected an offer Aug. 12 that would have
reduced debt to $2.33 billion and required  Alabama  Governor
Robert Bentley to give his permission before the county could
file for bankruptcy. It has until Sept. 16 to negotiate another
offer. The county has proposed debt be reduced by another $140
million, Carrington said.  A deal would likely need the approval of Alabama’s
Legislature. Under the creditors’ proposed agreement, the debt
would come with a “moral obligation” backing from the state,
requiring lawmakers approval and estimated to be worth more than
$1 billion in reduced  interest rates .  Carrington will travel to New York with Commissioner Jimmie
Stephens, chairman of the Finance Committee, to speak with
creditors from Aug. 23 to at least Aug. 25. He said the number
of meetings was planned was “fluid” and that he would speak
with “a handful” of creditors. He declined to provide further
details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  