-- 
Jefferson County Agony Means Higher Borrowing Costs for Alabama Taxpayers

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-08-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/jefferson-county-agony-means-higher-borrowing-costs-for-alabama-taxpayers.html
Local governments in  Alabama , where
thousands of highways and bridges are overdue for repairs, face
higher borrowing costs for public projects as Jefferson County
debates filing the nation’s biggest municipal bankruptcy.  A town that wants to borrow for road improvements or
building renovations will pay about 0.2 percentage point more
than one with the same  credit rating  in another state, even if
the debt has nothing to do with Jefferson County, said Jonathan Nordstrom, a managing director at Morgan Keegan & Co., which he
said is the top Alabama underwriter. If the issuer is in
Jefferson County, it might be stuck with 0.8 percentage point
more in regular  interest rates , he said.  “In the municipal marketplace, people see the initials AL
for Alabama by it and they say, ‘I need higher yield,’” said
Tom Dalpiaz, who oversees $280 million in municipal bonds as
senior vice president at Monument, Colorado-based Advisors Asset
Management Inc. “If bond market participants don’t see the
state stepping in to help Jefferson County in some way, the
reasoning becomes, ‘If other entities in the state come into
trouble, maybe the state isn’t going to help them either.’”  That means that residents of the state the U.S. Census
Bureau ranks 47th in median  household income  have comparatively
less access to capital to improve infrastructure, schools and
public institutions.  Three-Year Agony  Jefferson County, home to Birmingham and more than 658,000
people, has spent three years dealing with the collapse of a
sewer-bond refinancing. The county was poised last week to file
the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history, and delayed
the decision to try again to settle with creditors including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The state Legislature has not agreed to help ease the
county’s debt burden. The state has fiscal problems of its own:
One in seven Alabamians lived below the poverty line in 2009 and
in July, 10 percent of its workers were unemployed.  The state has failed to meet revenue projections, leading
to three consecutive midyear budget cuts, and it slashed
hundreds of jobs last week, said  Chris Sanders , fiscal policy
analyst at the  Arise Citizens’ Policy Project . The Montgomery-
based nonprofit advocates policies to help the poor.  Higher relative borrowing costs are “just another bad
thing piled on top of a lot of other bad things that are
happening for the state and the localities,” Sanders said.  Declining Issuance  Issuers in the state sold $1.1 billion in municipal debt
this year through last week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with $1.7 billion in the same period
last year and $2.7 billion in 2007, before the market crash.  A Birmingham general-obligation bond that matures in 2032
traded to yield 4.61 percent on Aug. 15, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the bond AA,
third highest.  A bond for  Memphis ,  Tennessee , which has the same credit
rating and maturity, traded the same day with a 4.25 percent
yield.  Even Huntsville, a city two hours north of Birmingham with
a AAA credit rating, has debt trading with yields slightly
higher than those of average top-rated debt. A bond issued in
September and maturing in 2020 traded on Aug. 17 to yield 2.42
percent. That compares with the 2.07 percent yield for most top-
rated nine-year debt that day, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  That’s Not Us  Huntsville Mayor Tommy Battle said linking his city’s debt
to anything going on in Jefferson County is short-sighted. If
the city finds bond sale costs too high, it will take out a
private loan, he said.  “If we find the yields are pushed up artificially because
of this, we’ll go to plan B in our borrowing until the
artificial bubble has popped,” he said.  The ability of Alabama’s local governments to act is
 hobbled  by a constitution that requires many economic
development or infrastructure changes to pass through the
Legislature, according to Arise. More than 70 percent of
constitutional amendments apply to a single city or county, and
almost 90 percent of state revenue is earmarked for specific
purposes.  Meanwhile, municipal governments face deteriorating
infrastructure. School buses each day must detour 1,722 miles
around weight-restricted county-maintained bridges, at an annual
cost of $2.5 million, according to a February report from the
 Association of County Engineers of Alabama.  Counties maintain
2,675 bridges that are more than 50 years old, and replacing
them all would cost an estimated $1.3 billion, according to the
report.  The Need Remains  The elevated borrowing costs add up. A $10 million 30-year
maturity serial  bond issue  with par bonds and level debt service
would cost $6.4 million in debt service interest costs over the
life of the bond issue, said Chris Mier, a managing director at
Loop Capital Markets LLC in  Chicago . A bond paying 0.2
percentage point more in yield would require an additional
$430,000 in debt service costs over that period, he said.  That could buy 71 ambulances on GovDeals.com, an online
store for surplus government equipment.  Alabama’s local governments may be paying less to borrow
than in the past even as they pay more than those in other
states. Municipal yields overall have fallen, with top-rated
tax-exempt 10-year debt trading at 2.174 percent Aug. 19, its
lowest since September 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  When Jefferson County resolves its debt crisis, investors
may judge the state’s issuers more like their peers, Nordstrom
said. Governments -- and residents -- will put the money to
work.  “There are a lot of unmet needs and there will be more,”
Sanders said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  