-- 
Jyske Bank Shares Drop After Earnings Miss Analyst Estimates

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-08-22T15:30:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/jyske-bank-shares-drop-after-earnings-miss-analyst-estimates-2-.html
Jyske Bank A/S, Denmark’s second-
largest listed lender, fell the most in 15 months in Copenhagen
trading after reporting earnings that missed analyst estimates.  Jyske shares declined 12 kroner, or 7.6 percent, to 145.80
kroner, the biggest drop since May 4, 2010. Silkeborg, Denmark-
based Jyske said today second-quarter net income fell 47 percent
to 88 million kroner ($17 million), missing the average estimate
of 260 million kroner in a Bloomberg survey of seven analysts.  Jyske has underperformed Nordic peers on the stock market
this year after two regional Danish lenders collapsed and the
country’s economy slipped into a recession. PFA, Denmark’s
second-biggest investor, is under-weighting Danish financial
stocks at least until the government presents a new bank package
and the economy recovers, Glenn Martin Vestergaard, a senior
portfolio manager at the Copenhagen-based fund, said in an
interview last week.  “Jyske’s net interest income was disappointing, the
trading income was soft and the impairment charges were more
than we expected,” Lars Holm, a Copenhagen-based analyst at
Danske Bank A/S, said in a phone interview.  Loan Impairments  The lender’s core net interest income, the difference
between what the bank earns from lending and what it pays on
deposits, increased 1.9 percent to 1.07 billion kroner. Core
loan impairments were 370 million kroner in the second quarter
compared with 244 million kroner in the first three months of
the year.  Danske’s Holm, who has a ‘buy’ recommendation on the
shares, said he had expected net interest income of 1.09 billion
kroner and impairment charges of 255 million kroner.  Jyske’s stock has lost 44 percent this year compared with a
26 percent decline for Stockholm-based Nordea Bank AB, the
Nordic region’s biggest lender. The Bloomberg Europe Banks index
has lost 31 percent this year.  Denmark slid into a recession in the fourth quarter as the
Nordic economy lags behind recoveries in Sweden and  Norway .
State budget cuts, declining  house prices  and lackluster
 consumer spending  threaten to keep growth subdued.  “The Danish economy was weaker than expected in the first
half of the year and, accordingly, loan impairment charges rose
in the second quarter, Chief Executive Officer Anders Dam said
in a statement today.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 