-- 
Kazatomprom Targets Jump in Uranium Pellet Exports to China

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-08-22T14:33:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/kazatomprom-aims-to-boost-uranium-pellet-sales-to-china-100-fold.html
Kazatomprom, the  Kazakhstan  state
nuclear company, plans a 100-fold increase in sales of uranium
pellets to  China  within three years as the East Asian country
almost triples the number of nuclear power plants it operates.  Kazatomprom expects shipments to the world’s largest energy
consumer to grow to 200 metric tons of uranium pellets in 2013
or 2014 from the 2 tons planned this year, Chief Executive
Officer Vladimir Shkolnik said in an interview in Almaty today.  China has 14 nuclear power reactors in operation, more than
25 under construction and others being prepared, according to
the  World Nuclear Association ’s  website . Kazakhstan has 15
percent of the world’s uranium reserves, the most after the 23
percent estimated for  Australia , according to the website.  Generating a gigawatt of nuclear power, enough for about 1
million U.S. homes, requires 200 tons of uranium a year at full
operating rates, according to the World Nuclear Association.
China, India and  South Korea  expect to use 262 gigawatts by
2030, more than the combined production of the U.S., Japan,
Germany and France, according to Bloomberg data.  Kazakhstan started to export “several hundred tons” of
uranium to India last year and plans to ship similar amounts
through 2014, Shkolnik said.  The Central Asian nation has won a new agreement to export
uranium to South Korea until 2017 and has negotiated a contract
that factors in spot prices, Shkolnik said, without elaborating.  The company is in talks with Korea Electric Power Corp.
about a uranium mining venture in Kazakhstan, he said. There are
no similar talks with  India , he said.  Uranium oxide concentrate is enriched and turned into
pellets before being used as fuel for nuclear reactors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  