-- 
Kenyan Tea Production May Decline by a Third After Drought Reduces Yields

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-08-22T07:57:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/kenyan-tea-production-may-decline-by-a-third-after-drought-reduces-yields.html
Tea production in  Kenya , the world’s
biggest exporter of the black variety of the leaves, may drop by
almost a third this year after a drought curbed yields, the East
African Tea Traders Association.  “The weather has affected output and we predict a decrease
of up to 30 percent of last year’s all time record output of 399
million kilograms,” Peter Kimanga, chairman of the Mombasa-based
industry body, said in an interview on Aug. 19. In July, the Tea
Board of Kenya said output may fall as much as 25 percent.  East Africa  experienced two poor rainy seasons that caused
one of the worst droughts in 60 years, according to the United
Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki in May declared the drought a national disaster.  Tea is the biggest foreign-currency earner in Kenya, East
 Africa ’s largest economy, which relies on agriculture to
generate a quarter of its economic output. Tea production
dropped 16 percent in the first half to 178.4 million kilograms
(393.3 million pounds), the tea board said last month.  “The dry weather remains the biggest challenge as it is
expected to affect output in the key tea-growing regions across
the country,” Sicily Kariuki, the chief executive officer of the
board, said in the interview.  The impact of the drought on export earnings for the crop
may be offset by the shilling’s decline against the dollar,
Kimanga said. The currency weakened 13 percent so far this year
and is Africa’s second-worst performer, after neighboring
 Uganda . Kenyan exports dropped 2.4 percent to 211.7 million
kilograms in the first half, according to the tea board.  Adding Value  Industry officials are in discussions with the government
to help add value to shipments of Kenya’s tea. The state
currently levies a value-added-tax of 16 percent on all
processed tea and charges a 25 percent import duty on packaging
materials, Kimanga said.  “The country business environment is not conducive for tea
processing as there are numerous levies and higher taxes which
are punitive,” Kimanga said. “By doing value addition we can
sale directly to new markets such as Eastern Europe, West
Africa, southern Africa and the  Middle East , who are currently
buying from countries such as Britain which processes our tea.”  Pakistan  is the biggest buyer of Kenyan tea, followed by
Egypt, Afghanistan and  Sudan , according to the tea board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 