-- 
Korea Investment Adds $78 Million to Bank of America Stake Amid Stock Rout

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-08-23T01:26:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/korea-investment-corp-bought-78-million-of-bofa-merrill-shares.html
Korea Investment Corp., the
country’s sovereign wealth fund, said it added $78 million worth
of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  shares to its existing stake this year
as the  U.S. bank  shed more than half its market value.  The fund added shares from January via seven separate
purchases using a $145 million dividend it earlier received from
Bank of America and called the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
bank’s shares “undervalued,” in an e-mailed statement late
yesterday.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
has been selling businesses and assets as the firm seeks to
comply with new international capital standards set by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision . The shares have plunged 52
percent this year as costs tied to the 2008 acquisition of
subprime lender Countrywide Financial Corp. weighed on capital
and sparked speculation that it would have to issue new stock.  “It’s an excellent move” by KIC, Hank Morris, North
Asia adviser at Triple A Partners Ltd., said by telephone today.
“Global financial turmoil never lasts forever. When the market
comes back, Bank of America is well positioned in the U.S. and
around the world to benefit globally.”  Long-Term Investment  The Seoul-based fund declined to comment on the number of
Bank of America shares it bought. The stock purchase is a
“long-term strategic” investment, Lee Dong Ik, Korea
Investment’s head of private market group, said by phone today.
The fund manages $43 billion of assets.  The Maeil Business Newspaper reported yesterday that KIC
plans to invest an additional $50 million in Bank of America,
citing an unidentified official.  KIC initially bought a $2 billion stake in Merrill Lynch &
Co. in February 2008, months before the firm was forced to sell
itself to Bank of America. The fund held about 68 million shares,
or a 0.67 percent stake, in Bank of America as of June 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  South Korea’s  Board of Audit and Inspection  last year said
the fund should be sanctioned over losses from the purchase,
calling KIC’s investment decision hasty and based on
“inadequate”  risk assessment .  BofA Leads Declines  Shares of Bank of America dropped 7.9 percent to $6.42
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
lowest since March 2009. The stock led decliners in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index after China Construction Bank Corp. said the
U.S. lender will keep at least half its 10 percent stake. Last
week the company announced it was exiting credit-card markets
outside the U.S., and Moynihan said the lender will continue to
pursue such sales.  Moynihan has repeatedly said a share sale isn’t needed and
that he can divest non-core assets to meet capital standards.  KIC hasn’t decided how to invest the remaining Bank of
America dividend payment, it said in the statement. Future
investment plans will be decided based on global economic
conditions and financial markets, it said.  The fund was established in July 2005 to invest part of
 South Korea ’s foreign-exchange reserves overseas. It posted
returns of 8.46 percent from bonds and stocks in 2010, down from
18.67 percent in the previous year, according to the fund’s
annual report published in June. It had a net profit of 16.3
billion won last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  