-- 
NATO Says It Won’t Curtail Libya Air Campaign as Rebels Sweep Into Tripoli

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-08-22T13:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/nato-says-it-won-t-curtail-libya-air-campaign-as-rebels-sweep-into-tripoli.html
NATO said it won’t curtail its five-
month air campaign over Libya and will monitor any remaining
threats posed by  Muammar Qaddafi ’s military forces as rebels
seeking to topple the 42-year regime swept into Tripoli.  The  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  is today deploying a
similar number of aircraft to fly missions as it has in past
weeks, an alliance official said by phone from Brussels. Still,
NATO signaled that the mission some leaders predicted would move
swiftly is nearing an end after rebels overcame a months-long
stalemate and marched on the capital.  “The Qaddafi regime is clearly crumbling,” NATO
Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said today in  Brussels .
“Now is the time for all threats against civilians to stop, as
the  United Nations Security Council  demanded.”  Rebels captured two of Qaddafi’s sons and dispatched
soldiers toward the doorstep of the Libyan leader’s presidential
compound. An overthrow of the regime would relieve NATO of a
mission that has stretched its resources. The alliance has flown
19,877 flight missions over  Libya  since it took command of the
mission on March 31, operating under a United Nations mandate.  Qaddafi clung to power as his military forces dug into
their positions against the rebels and a NATO aerial assault
struggled to dislodge his regime. That contrasted with optimism
at the start, when French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said in
March that the campaign “will be counted in days and in weeks,
not in months.”  ‘Absolutely Delighted’  “I think NATO is absolutely delighted that they don’t have
to continue fighting because they have really struggled to
sustain operations,” Mats Berdal, a professor in the Department
of War Studies at  King’s College London , said by phone. The
alliance is “running out of ammunition.”  Rasmussen called on leaders in June to prepare for a post-
Qaddafi Libya and urged the UN to take the lead on overseeing a
transition, even though NATO could play a role. Juppe today
called for a meeting between the rebels and NATO officials in
Paris next week.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy today condemned Qaddafi’s
calls for Libyans to resist rebel forces and called for a
“spirit of reconciliation.”  The rebels’ advance yesterday was assisted by a NATO
assault on targets in Tripoli, including three command-and-
control centers, a “military facility,” radars, missile
launchers, a tank and armored vehicles, NATO said. The U.K. said
its Tornado and Typhoon aircraft struck Libyan military
intelligence in the capital yesterday.  U.K. Commitment  “Six months ago this country took the difficult decision
to commit our military to support the people of Libya,” U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  told reporters today in  London . “I
said at the time that this action was necessary, legal and right
-- and I still believe that today.”  NATO’s initial efforts were hampered by a lack of
coordination with the rebels and improved as communications were
upgraded, Berdal said.  The alliance also strained to ensure it had enough
firepower to maintain its air campaign. Rasmussen told NATO
foreign ministers in April that the alliance needed more attack
jets to target ground forces. The U.S. withdrew most of its
ground attack planes earlier that month, shouldering much of the
work with the French and British air forces.  NATO’s mission was boosted in late April with addition of
Italian ground-attack warplanes and armed U.S. Predator drones,
which also increased NATO’s surveillance capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  