-- 
Obama Says Qaddafi’s Regime Is ‘Coming to an End,’ Warns Fight Is Not Over

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-22T19:28:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/obama-qaddafi-regime-coming-to-an-end-.html
President  Barack Obama  said  Muammar Qaddafi ’s regime is “coming to an end” and called on the long-
time Libyan ruler to halt the bloodshed in his country by
expressly turning over the reins of power.  “The Qaddafi regime is coming to an end, and the future of
Libya is in the hands of its people,” Obama said, while warning
that the fight for control isn’t over yet.  “We have reports of regime elements threatening to
continue fighting,” Obama said from the vacation house where
he’s staying on  Martha’s Vineyard , Massachusetts. “Although
it’s clear that Qaddafi’s rule is over, he still has the
opportunity to reduce further bloodshed by explicitly
relinquishing power to the people of  Libya .”  Obama spoke as the rebels surged into the Libyan capital of
Tripoli and declared Qaddafi’s 42-year rule “is over.”
Opposition fighters engaged pockets of loyalist troops near the
presidential compound in southern Tripoli and in the center of
the capital.  The U.S. president called on rebel forces to refrain from
reprisals against regime members and promised aid to help the
transition to a new government. Obama said he spoke earlier with
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron and that Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  talked with her counterparts from other nations
in the coalition that has supported the Libyan opposition with
air strikes and intelligence on Qaddafi’s forces since March.  Still Searching  Josh Earnest , a White House spokesman, said the U.S. had no
immediate information on Qaddafi’s whereabouts.  “There’s no evidence to indicate that he’s left” Libya,
Earnest said.  Obama said the U.S. and NATO operation in Libya
“demonstrates what the international community can achieve when
we stand together as one” and shows that the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization “is the most capable alliance in the
world.”  Obama’s decision to take part in the air campaign in
support of the Libyan rebels was criticized by many of his
political opponents, including the Republicans seeking their
party’s presidential nomination for 2012.  One candidate, Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
Minnesota, argued that the president failed to articulate U.S.
goals or identify a vital national interest for military
involvement in Libya and criticized him for deferring to NATO on
the mission lead. She voted in June against authorizing the
mission and called for cutting off funding.  ‘Long in Coming’  On the other side, Arizona Senator  John McCain , the
Republican presidential candidate in 2008, faulted Obama for not
going far enough.  “Americans can be proud of the role our country has played
in helping to defeat Qaddafi, but we regret that this success
was so long in coming due to the failure of the United States to
employ the full weight of our airpower,” McCain said in a joint
statement yesterday with Republican Senator Lindsey Graham of
South Carolina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Vineyard Haven,  Massachusetts  at
   jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  