-- 
Obama Vacation Easy to Criticize, Hard to Read: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-08-22T00:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/obama-vacation-easy-to-criticize-hard-to-read-margaret-carlson.html
A lot of perks come with being
president. You’re whisked here and there so that your feet
barely touch ground. Heads of state pay their respects. There’s
no such thing as a dropped call. You have parties and someone
else cleans up.  But there’s one perk that almost everyone else gets that
you don’t: a chance to relax. Presidents take vacations at great
political peril. There’s never a good time to go, as President
 Barack Obama  learned once again as he headed off with his family
for a 10-day break in Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts.  How dare he go off and leave behind 9 percent unemployment,
a plunging stock market (the Dow Jones index was down more than
400 points the day he left Washington), a global economy on the
precipice and living hell in three countries where the U.S.
military is mired. Peppered with questions about the president’s
trip -- most along the lines of “How could he?” -- White House
press secretary  Jay Carney  dredged up the old saw about how
“There is no such thing as a presidential vacation” because
the job follows the man.  That happens to be true, of course. In December 2009, Obama
was singing Christmas carols with his family in Kaneohe Bay,
 Hawaii , when he got word of an attempted terrorist attack aboard
a plane en route to  Detroit . Fa la la la la.  “Real” People  In 2010 Obama tried to inoculate himself against the
inevitable complaints by visiting the not-yet-soiled shores of
 Florida  to encourage tourism there after the BP oil spill. He
was criticized when he left Florida to vacation in Martha’s
Vineyard. If he had stayed in Florida, naturally he would have
been criticized for showboating. And if he had stayed home, he
would have been criticized for living in a Washington cocoon far
removed from average Americans.  Obama’s flurry of visits to heartland states last week,
where he shook hands with “real” people as opposed to the wax
figures he ostensibly encounters on the East Coast, probably
won’t help him. Every photo of him in  Martha’s Vineyard  wearing
dorky jeans and riding a bike or eating ice cream with his
daughters will be cited as evidence that he’s not minding the
store.  “If you’re the president of the  United States , and the
nation is in crisis -- and we’re in a jobs crisis right now --
then you shouldn’t be out vacationing,” Republican candidate
Mitt Romney said. Romney himself takes “working” vacations, a
task made easier by the fact that the multimillionaire Romney
owns multiple getaways, one of which is strategically located on
a lake in New Hampshire, home to the first 2012 primary.  Landed Gentry  Like former President  Bill Clinton , Obama suffers from a
lack of a family compound or second home. We seem to prefer
landed gentry, not middle-class hoi polloi, for presidents, and
we identify them with their retreats. Franklin Roosevelt had
Campobello Island, off the  Maine  coast, and Warm Springs,
 Georgia . Dwight Eisenhower had his Gettysburg,  Pennsylvania ,
farm. John Kennedy had Hyannis,  Massachusetts , Richard Nixon
went to San Clemente,  California , and George H.W. Bush was
always at home in waspy Kennebunkport, Maine. Jimmy Carter’s
retreat, like him, was deemed unpresidential by a press corps
that found no romance in a Georgia peanut farm.  Since Nixon, Republicans have taken to affixing “western”
before “White House,” underscoring the point that all
presidential vacations are working ones. To add gravity to the
dusty environs of Crawford,  Texas , where he spent his vacations,
George W. Bush had a presidential seal plastered on the lectern
there.  Soaking the Rich  As a clue to presidential character, Martha’s Vineyard may
not tell us much -- at least about this insular president. The
Clintons went to Martha’s Vineyard not to get rested, but to get
ahead. Theirs wasn’t a working vacation so much as a networking
one, punctuated by parties with Jackie O, Beverly Sills,
Katharine Graham and James Taylor. Many evenings were devoted to
fundraising -- soaking the rich as the rich soaked up the sun.
(Even more money can be found among the canapes in  New York ’s
Hamptons, but no president dares go there.)  Obama may feel at home among the Harvard law professors and
NPR listeners of Martha’s Vineyard in the same way that Bush was
culturally attuned to Crawford and that Nixon was
quintessentially Nixonian impressing his wingtips on the soft
sand of San Clemente. But Obama is no more readable for being
among his fellow liberal strivers. In photographs of the
president, you can see a light in his face when he’s horsing
around with his daughters and wife; you don’t see it otherwise.
He should probably golf more with the likes of Speaker  John Boehner , but Obama just doesn’t seem to mix business and
pleasure like other pols. That reticence may keep him whole
emotionally; it doesn’t help him politically.  According to Mark Knoller, CBS News’ expert numbers keeper,
Obama has taken 61 days off in 31 months in office.  Ronald Reagan  managed to spend 349 days at his Santa Barbara ranch,
seemingly spending more time with his horse than with his chief
of staff.  George W. Bush  logged an astonishing 490 days at his
ranch in Crawford, where he went to great lengths to be seen
working. No matter. The Republican National Committee has built
a Web site called  ObamaGetAway.com  with pictures of Obama eating
shave ice and frolicking in the surf.  There is an honest defense against the vacation indictment
-- if only we could bear to hear it. The truth is, a president
can’t solve most of the problems on his desk even if he never
leaves the Oval Office. He might as well take a few days off.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 