-- 
Obama Seeks to Close Distance With Voters in Re-Election Bid

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-22T12:49:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/obama-seeks-to-close-distance-with-voters-in-re-election-bid.html
Lois Dare stood up at a town hall in
Cannon Falls, Minnesota, last week and told President Barack Obama that she slept in her truck for two nights to ask him
about Social Security. She said she was recovering from lung
cancer surgery and had been denied disability benefits.  The president offered more message than sympathy.  “I don’t know about the other folks, but I’ll make a
commitment as long as I’m president of the  United States , Social
Security will not only be there for you, but it’s also going to
be there for the next generation,” Obama said. He went on to
repeat the theme of his three-day Midwest bus tour: “The
problem is not the program, the problem is our politics.”  Obama never acknowledged Dare’s hardship for the audience.
It was only after the Aug. 15 event, when she approached Obama
in a rope-line where the president greets people on his way out,
that he added a personal touch.  “I sympathize with you,” Dare, 52, recalled Obama saying.
“I know what it’s like to lose someone from cancer.”  As he readies his re-election campaign, Obama may need to
push that empathy to the forefront. The difference between what
he told Dare publicly and privately underscores a challenge for
the president to show voters that he understands their concerns
and worries as the unemployment rate hovers at 9.1 percent and
public frustration with Congress and the White House runs at a
high following the summer’s partisan struggle with the federal
debt and deficit.  Obama’s approval rating for his handling of the  economy  was
26 percent, down 11 points from mid-May, according to a  Gallup
survey  released last week. His job approval rating was hovering
around 40 percent, Gallup’s Aug. 16-18 daily tracking poll
showed. Congressional approval rating hit at an all-time low of
13 percent in a survey by the polling company.  Voter Disconnection  “People already feel totally disconnected from
 Washington ,” said Matthew Dowd, former campaign strategist for
President  George W. Bush . “And if they see him as aloof, he
becomes the front-line of a disconnected Washington.”  Obama’s challenge is amplified this week as he vacations in
Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts, drawing criticism from
political opponents for taking a holiday on the affluent island
at a moment of widespread economic uncertainty.  While presidents deserve respite from a grueling job, “the
optics of it is not great” former Republican National Committee
Chairman  Ed Gillespie  said yesterday on CBS’s “Face the
Nation.” “And going to ‘The Vineyard,’ as the Democrat elite
call it, is probably not the right signal.”  Traveling White House  To be sure, the White House apparatus travels with the
president. Yesterday morning, counterterrorism adviser  John Brennan  briefed Obama on the situation in  Libya . Late yesterday,
Obama issued a statement about Muammar Qaddafi’s regime reaching
“a tipping point.” Obama, who called for Qaddafi to leave months
ago, said: “Tripoli is slipping from the grasp of a tyrant.”  The president will spend part of this week working on a
package of economic initiatives that he’ll unveil in early
September, his aides say.  The president’s foursome at golf in  Martha’s Vineyard 
yesterday included UBS AG Americas Chairman  Robert Wolf , a
member of Obama’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness. At an
island resort that lures the influential, Obama also attended a
reception at the home of Comcast Corp. Chairman and CEO  Brian Roberts , another member of the president’s jobs council.  Concern that the global economy is stalling has helped push
the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its biggest four-
week loss since March 2009. It’s sunk 16 percent since July 22
as about $3 trillion was erased from the value of U.S. equities,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. Treasuries have
rallied 2.3 percent since S&P downgraded  U.S. debt  to AA+ from
AAA on Aug. 5.  Economic Anxiety  Obama repeatedly heard voters relay their economic anxiety
about the political process as he toured by bus through rural
parts of  Minnesota ,  Iowa  and  Illinois  last week. After spending
July mostly confined to the White House for negotiations on
raising the debt ceiling, Obama’s advisers said, the bus tour
allowed him more intimate interactions with voters in areas
without an airport big enough to handle a stop by Air Force One.  Presidential Bubble  Even by bus, Obama has a tough time breaking through the
bubble around him to show he’s in touch with average voters.  While Obama made impromptu stops at diners, ice cream shops
and local schools, most of the residents on his route saw him in
his black armored bus, accompanied by a motorcade of support
vehicles, waving from the front window as if from a bullet-proof
parade float.  “That is a challenge,” said  David Axelrod , Obama’s
political adviser. “When you’re a candidate for president and
not the president, the opportunity for the more intimate
interactions are much more numerous.”  As a candidate for re-election, such connections may be
particularly important for Obama.  “It’s the difference between a good orator and a good
communicator,” Dowd said. “ Barack Obama  is a good orator,
sometimes he’s not a good communicator.”  Dare said she was thrilled just to have the opportunity to
meet the president last week and didn’t mind that he glossed
over details of her concerns at the town hall in Cannon Falls.  “He didn’t have to say it in public -- he said it to me,
it was personal and it let me know that I felt like I was
important,” she said. “I was like a kid in the candy store. I
am recovering from lung surgery, and I don’t know how long I got
to live. I’m living day to day.”  When she spoke with Obama after the event, the president
asked her to write down her contact information for a staffer.  The Elk River resident hasn’t yet heard from someone in the
administration. Dare has, however, received calls from the
offices of elected officials in Minnesota, Democratic Senator
 Amy Klobuchar , and a candidate for the Republican presidential
nomination in 2012, Representative  Michele Bachmann .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Vineyard Haven,  Massachusetts , at 
   jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  