-- 
Obama Talks to Buffett About Economy in Preparation for Speech

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-08-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/obama-spoke-with-berkshire-s-buffett-about-economy-aide-says.html
President  Barack Obama , preparing
for a post-Labor Day speech with plans for stimulating the
economy, talked with billionaire  Warren Buffett  about how to
boost  job creation  and spur growth.  “The president and Mr. Buffett discussed the overall
outlook on the economy and the reaction to the headwinds we’ve
experienced over the last couple of months,” said  Josh Earnest ,
an administration spokesman. “They talked a little bit about
some possible measures that would spur investment and increase
economic growth and they also talked about some measures that
could address the long-term fiscal situation in this country.”  Obama placed the call yesterday to the chairman and chief
executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , who has served as
an informal adviser to the president, Earnest said. The
president also talked with Ford Motor Co. Chief Executive
Officer Alan Mulally about developments in the automotive and
manufacturing sectors of the economy.  Obama plans to give an address on the economy shortly after
the U.S. Labor Day holiday, which is Sept. 5. In conjunction
with actions to shrink the nation’s long-term deficit, Obama is
considering steps to give a quick boost to employment, including
an expanded infrastructure spending program, tax incentives for
hiring workers, a cut in the  payroll tax  paid by employers and
worker retraining programs.  Republican Opposition  Any measures to spur the economy that require additional
 government spending  are likely to run into opposition from
congressional Republicans, who control the  House of
Representatives .  One idea that has aroused interest among the president’s
advisers is a Georgia program that lets workers receiving
unemployment insurance train for jobs at businesses at no cost
to the employer, said a person familiar with deliberations.  At a town-hall meeting last week in Atkinson, Illinois,
Obama praised the Georgia initiative as “a smart program.” The
Georgia Works program lets jobless workers continue to collect
unemployment insurance while a new employer trains them on the
job for eight weeks. After what amounts to a no-cost trial
period for a potential new employee, the company may hire or
pass on the person.  “You’re essentially earning a salary and getting your foot
in the door into that company,” Obama said. “If they hire you
full-time, then the  unemployment insurance  is used to subsidize
you getting trained and getting a job.”  Economic Incentives  The president previously has said he wants Congress to
approve a program to increase spending on infrastructure
projects such as roads to increase hiring in the  construction
industry  and an extension of a temporary two-percentage-point
cut in the payroll tax paid by employees that is set to expire
at the end of the year.  Administration officials have said the president’s advisers
are considering additional moves as well. Some steps could be
taken administratively and others would need congressional
approval.  Vice President  Joe Biden  told reporters traveling with him
in  Japan  that a cut in the payroll tax paid by employers is
“one of things that’s being considered” as part the package
Obama plans to introduce after Labor Day. Biden said he had
“extensive discussions” with Obama about the plan before he
left, without giving details.  Talks With Republicans  Biden added that he already had discussed the idea of such
a  tax cut  with Republican lawmakers during debt-limit
negotiations over the summer. The tax funds the Social Security
and Medicare programs and is split equally between employers and
workers. The employee portion of the Social Security levy was
cut to 4.2 percent from 6.2 percent as part of tax legislation
passed last year.  Amid signs of sluggish growth, the  unemployment rate  was
9.1 percent in July and economists have raised their forecasts
for unemployment next year.  The median forecast for unemployment during the fourth
quarter of 2012 -- when Obama is up for re-election -- was 8.5
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of economists taken Aug. 2
through 12. That was up from a median forecast of 8.0 percent
for the election-day quarter in a survey of the same economists
taken a month earlier.  Obama is seeking to revive a version of the so-called grand
bargain with congressional Republicans that would combine long-
term U.S. deficit reduction through entitlement benefit cuts and
tax increases with immediate steps to boost job growth. To
offset the cost of the new initiatives, Obama will seek
additional long-term deficit reduction.  Obama has cited Buffett to counter critics of his policy
proposals, particularly on raising taxes for the nation’s
wealthiest individuals and families.  During his bus tour last week through rural areas of
 Minnesota , Iowa and  Illinois , Obama quoted from a New York Times
opinion article in which Buffett wrote that the nation’s richest
individuals have been “coddled long enough by a billionaire-
friendly Congress.” Buffett argued for raising taxes for the
“mega-rich” in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Vineyard Haven, Massachusetts at
   jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  