-- 
Oil Producers Cautious on Libya Return to Output as Rebels Reach Tripoli

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-08-22T15:46:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/oil-producers-cautious-on-libya-return.html
Foreign oil producers in Libya,
where rebels have entered Tripoli in a push to end Muammar Qaddafi’s 42-year rule, said it’s too early to consider
restoring output at halted fields.  Libya, home to Africa’s largest oil reserves, produced more
than 1.5 million barrels a day before the start of the civil war
in February. Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI) , Russia’s OAO Gazprom and others
idled oil and gas fields and evacuated staff, cutting the
country’s output by more than 90 percent. Eni has said it may
take a year to get fields back to full capacity.  “It is important that the political situation should
stabilize first and the legitimate leadership be established and
ministers appointed,” Ivan Gogolev, a spokesman at Gazprom
International, said today by telephone. The Moscow-based gas
company has two exploration blocks in Libya and is a partner in
producing fields. “Only then will we assess when we can come
back, but it is understandable that we want to be back.”  The U.S., U.K., France and Italy, allied nations supporting
the rebels with air power, are working with Libya’s National
Transitional Council to restore oil production, Italian Foreign
Minister  Franco Frattini  said in an interview with La Stampa.
Rebels are holding three of Qaddafi’s sons after sweeping into
the capital yesterday and continue to search for their father.  ‘Very Positive’  An end to the conflict would be “very positive” for  oil
companies , Eni Chairman Giuseppe Recchi said in an interview in
Rimini today. The Rome-based company, the largest foreign oil
producer in Libya, isn’t concerned a new government will try to
renegotiate contracts because current agreements are protected
by international law, he said.  BASF SE (BAS) ’s Wintershall AG unit, a German producer, was among
companies to halt Libyan operations in February as rebels rose
up against the government. The Kassel-based company, which has
concessions in the country with partner Gazprom, had been
pumping as much as 100,000 barrels of oil a day.  “At the moment it is too early to predict when, how and
under what conditions the production in Libya might begin
again,” Stefan Leunig, a spokesman for Wintershall, said in an
e-mail. Production could resume “within several weeks,”
depending on the state of facilities and security, he said.  OMV, Repsol, Total  Central Europe’s biggest oil company,  OMV AG (OMV) , Spain’s
 Repsol YPF SA (REP) , France’s  Total SA (FP)  and U.K.-based  BP Plc (BP/)  also have
operations in Libya. OMV was forced to halt production at the
Shateira field in February.  “We are watching further developments in Libya,” said
Sven Pusswald, a spokesman at OMV. “We don’t have any bilateral
contact” with the rebels, he said.  Spokeswomen for Repsol and Total said the companies are
monitoring events to determine when a restart may be possible,
while BP spokeswoman  Sheila Williams  said the company won’t
return staff to Libya while unrest continues.  Brent crude futures fell as much as 3.2 percent to $105.15
a barrel in  London  on optimism that Libyan production will
resume. Eni shares gained 6.3 percent to 13.27 euros at the 5:30
p.m. close in Milan, the biggest one-day jump since May 2010.  It will take about a year to restore Libyan oil output
fully and about two to three months to bring back full gas
flows,  Claudio Descalzi , head of exploration and production at
Eni, said July 29 on a conference call. Eni’s oil and gas
volumes in  Libya  have fallen to about 50,000 barrels a day from
280,000 a day because of the conflict.  Take Time  “This is good news for Eni, but to be reassured we’ll need
to know what plans the rebels have and whether they can quickly
pacify and manage the country,” said Massimiliano Romano, head
of research at brokerage Concentric Italy in Milan. “Between
that and getting production going again I think it will take
some time before the companies are making money in Libya.”  In Tripoli, government forces offered little resistance as
celebrations broke out in Green Square, the location for pro-
Qaddafi rallies in recent months. Clashes erupted outside
Qaddafi’s headquarters, Agence-France Presse reported. Regime
spokesman Moussa Ibrahim said the leader was ready to negotiate
with Mustafa Abdel Jalil, head of the rebel council, and asked
for an immediate cease-fire.  “The interim regime is likely to concentrate on getting
oil production going again and rebuilding the infrastructure,”
said Thina Saltvedt, an oil analyst at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Oslo.
“The amount of oil produced will be limited in the short
term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in  Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 