-- 
Hollywood Hit Men Stalk Starlet as Tycoon Dies in Blast: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-08-22T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/hollywood-hit-men-stalk-starlet-as-tycoon-crumples-in-shotgun-blast-books.html
Charlie Hardie is a tongue-in-cheek
name for a hero who gets impaled on a microphone stand and
zapped with 50,000 volts yet soldiers on, caked in blood, after
encountering a team of assassins in Hollywood Hills.  He’ll endure far worse before Duane Swierczynski brings his
manic thriller “Fun and Games” crashing toward its feverish
crescendo.  A washed-up lawman from Philadelphia, Hardie has drifted
into work as a professional house sitter following the revenge
killing of his partner’s family. Flying into  Los Angeles  to mind
the $3.7 million home of a film-music composer, he intends to
drink bourbon and watch old movies. His plans are scotched by an
unhinged squatter -- a B-list starlet who swears she’s hiding
from hit men bent on making her death look accidental.  Swierczynski hints at his own storytelling strategy with a
quotation from  Alfred Hitchcock : “A far-fetched story,” said
the director, “must be plausibly told, so your nonsense isn’t
showing.” It’s a high bar -- one this zigzagging plot clears,
even when the bad guys strut beneath  the Hollywood sign  in broad
daylight.  The tale packs enough indestructible villains to satisfy a
“Die Hard” fan, and each chapter ends on a cliffhanger. I
hesitate to add details lest I spoil a single surprise. Written
in deadpan sentences and funny as can be, this first installment
of a projected trilogy left me greedy for more.  “Fun and Games” is from  Mulholland  (286 pages, $14.99).  Death Blossoms  A tycoon with his head blown off is a crime-novel cliche.
What sets the trope apart in “A Death in Summer” is how his
blood and brains have splattered a picture window “like a giant
peony blossom.” It’s a macabre color scheme straight out of a
James Ensor painting.  The writer is literary author John Banville, masquerading
under his noir pseudonym,  Benjamin Black . The gory floral
simile, deftly inserted after “a bit of jawbone and a few teeth
and a bloodied stump of spine,” assures us that Banville is
going to give us more than a clever plot.  The place is Ireland. The time, a sweltering June in the
1950s. Alvis autos prowl the streets and Lucky Strikes are an
exotic extravagance from America. Newspaper proprietor Richard
Jewell -- a.k.a. “Diamond Dick” -- has been found corkscrewed
across his desk, a Purdey shotgun in his hands. A suicide?
Dublin pathologist Quirke has doubts.  Jewell had enemies, notably Carlton Sumner, a Canadian-bred
buyout artist who has been accumulating shares in the newspaper
chain with hostile intent. Jewell’s half sister, Dannie, is a
svelte bundle of jitters in jodhpurs, while his French wife,
Francoise, seems all too calm in her gray silk dress and
stilettos.  Yellow sunlight glares off floors and tables. It falls in
“a slab,” “a patch” and descends as “two burly pillars”
from the clouds, suggesting that Banville has been dawdling
before Baroque canvases. Yet the mood grows ever more
claustrophobic as Quirke becomes enmeshed in a skein of scheming
and violence.  The book clogs in the middle with social and sexual wheels
within wheels. Come the last third, though, the machinery meshes
with pleasurable precision.  “A Death in Summer” is from  Henry Holt  in the U.S. (308
pages, $25) and from  Mantle  in the U.K. (256 pages, 16.99
pounds).  Portland Killer  Years have passed since Gretchen Lowell, a diabolical
Aphrodite, hammered a nail into Archie Sheridan’s ribs and
carved out his spleen. With Gretchen now behind bars, the
Portland police detective seems less besotted and more down-to-
earth in  Chelsea Cain’s  new thriller, “The Night Season.”  The same can be said of Cain herself.  In the earlier novels, Cain treated readers to an over-the-
top mixture of the creepy and the camp: Eyeballs bobbed in a
toilet tank, hearts were packed in lunchboxes. Gretchen, a
sadist with perfect skin, extracted one victim’s small intestine
with a crochet hook, inch by inch.  This time, the greatest menace appears to be Mother Nature.
Snowmelt and rain engorge the Willamette River, threatening to
flood the city. Several people have died in the churning waters,
presumably by drowning, until a medical examiner finds evidence
that they were poisoned. Is a new serial killer on the loose?  Newspaperwoman Susan Ward, her hair now dyed a color called
Deadly Nightshade, joins the chase. Before long, she’s also
following a lead on the mysterious skeleton of a man who might
have died some 60 years before, during another great flood.  Drawing on a  real disaster  that swept away a neighborhood
on Memorial Day in 1948, Cain produces an atmospheric backdrop
and characters of greater depth. Though some of the storyline
stretches credulity, her pacing and good humor teased me all the
way to the satisfying denouement.  “The Night Season” is from Macmillan’s  Minotaur  imprint
in the U.S. (322 pages, $24.99) and from Macmillan in the U.K.
(12.99 pounds).  To buy these books in  North America , click  here  for “Fun
and Games,”  here  for “A Death in Summer” and  here  for “The
Night Season.”  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 