-- 
Homebuyers Hunker Down as Housing’s Drag on Economy May Worsen

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-22T14:56:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/homebuyers-hunker-down-as-housing-s-drag-on-economy-may-worsen.html
Sanjay Jain called his real estate
broker four days ago to cancel a deal to buy a three-bedroom
home in Folsom,  California , unnerved by another plunge in the
most volatile equities market on record.  “Seeing what’s happening on the stock market made me think
that it’s not a good time to be buying a home,” Jain said.
“I’m going to wait and see.”  As the  U.S. economy  shows signs of sputtering, instability
on Wall Street is sapping the confidence of would-be property
buyers, said  Karl Case , co-founder of the S&P/Case-Shiller home-
price index. That means housing, which aided every recovery
except one before the most recent recession, may deepen its
five-year drag on growth.  “There’s a dramatic effect on an economy when a major
sector is flat out,” said Case, professor emeritus of economics
at  Wellesley College  in Massachusetts. “If housing takes
another leg down, it’s an accelerator. It’s going to make a
recession happen faster and deeper.”  Home sales in July fell to the lowest point this year, the
National Association of Realtors said in a report last week.
Applications for mortgages to buy homes dropped to a 13-month
low in the week ended Aug. 12, even as borrowing costs tumbled,
according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index sank to the lowest since the recession.  Equities Slide  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has fallen for four
straight weeks, losing 16 percent from July 22 through Aug. 19.
On the day Jain canceled his deal to buy the Folsom house,
global stock markets erased $1.8 trillion of wealth as Morgan
Stanley said the U.S. and  Europe  were “dangerously close” to
recession. After S&P cut the U.S. credit rating on Aug. 5, the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  had the biggest one-day loss since
2008, igniting memories of the housing-induced financial crisis
that triggered a global recession and wiped out more than 8
million U.S. jobs.  “A lot of people have seen their down payments for a home
disappear in the stock market,” said  Keith Gumbinger , vice
president of HSH Associates, a loan-data firm in Pompton Plains,
New Jersey. “It served as a reinforcement to the hunker-down
mentality that a lot of homebuyers already had.”  Before the start of the economic recovery in mid-2009, the
U.S. had not exited a recession without being aided by housing,
its largest asset class, except for in 1981, according to data
from the  Bureau of Economic Analysis . That year, the recovery
was followed by a second, and deeper, recession in 1982.  Since the 2006 real estate bust, a measure of homebuilding
and brokers’ commissions known as residential investment has
drained gross domestic product by almost three-quarters of a
percentage point annually, on average.  Limiting Growth  For 2010, the first full year of the U.S. recovery,
residential investment fell 4.3 percent. Going back to the Great
Depression, it gained an average of 22 percent in the first year
of expansion, excluding 1946, when it tripled as soldiers
returned from World War II.  The U.S. recovery is weakening. The world’s largest economy
grew at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the second quarter, the
Commerce Department said on July 29. That was less than the
increase of 1.8 percent forecast by economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Jobless claims climbed to the highest in a month in
the week ended Aug. 13, according to the Labor Department.  “The typical homebuyer gets rattled when confronted with
economic turmoil,” said  Stan Humphries , chief economist of
Zillow.com, an online real estate information service in
 Seattle . “The type of fear we’re seeing could substantially
worsen the housing market.”  Falling Sales, Prices  The real estate market has been struggling after a federal
tax credit spurred demand in the second half of 2009 and early
2010. Home sales last month were 9.1 percent below their level
at the beginning of the economic expansion two years earlier,
data from the National Association of Realtors show. As of May,
 home prices  were 7.3 percent below the start of the recovery,
according to the Federal Housing Finance Administration.  The share of mortgages with late payments in the second
quarter rose to 8.44 percent from 8.32 percent the previous
three months, the  Mortgage Bankers Association  reported today.  The degenerating housing market has confounded attempts by
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to revive demand by
lowering interest rates. The Fed purchased more than $2 trillion
of mortgage-back securities and Treasury bonds in the last two
years to hold down long-term borrowing costs.  Bernanke got the cheaper home-loan financing costs he
wanted -- last week, rates for 30-year fixed mortgages fell to
4.15 percent, the lowest in more than half a century, according
to  Freddie Mac . Still, rates that have been below 5 percent in
all but two weeks of this year have failed to spur sales enough
to support economic growth.  ‘Depressed’ Market  Bernanke and the other rate-setting members of the Federal
Open Market Committee described the housing market as
“depressed” in statements following their last 11 meetings,
including the latest on Aug. 8. They pledged at that gathering
to keep their benchmark  interest rate  at a record low for at
least two years.  “Low mortgage rates are only helpful to homebuyers who
aren’t paralyzed with fear after watching their 401(k)
disappear,” said Mark Goldman, a lecturer at the Corky McMillin
Center for Real Estate at San Diego State University. “For now,
people see the stock market as a casino table.”  Homebuyer cancellations in the past two months rose about
10 percent from a year earlier,  Lawrence Yun , chief economist of
the Realtors group, said at a news conference on Aug. 18. He
attributed the jump to trouble getting appraisals that match the
loan amount and “overly stringent” lending standards. In
addition, member agents mentioned a rise in “other problems,”
which include waning buyer confidence, he said.  Waiting for Deals  Jim Hamilton, Jain’s agent at Lyon Real Estate in Folsom,
said he is seeing more buyers hold back on purchases because
they expect home prices to fall.  “People are watching the stock market as a major indicator
of what’s going on in the economy,” he said. “Buyers are
beginning to think that if they wait, they’re going to get a
better deal in a few months.”  Last week, Freddie Mac said it expects home prices to
decline 6 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier,
worse than the 2 percent slump it estimated last month. The
McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance company also reduced its
2011 GDP growth forecast to 1.6 percent from 2.7 percent.  The Aug. 16 report compared this month’s stock market
turmoil to the Cyclone roller coaster at the Coney Island
amusement park in  Brooklyn ,  New York .  “In sharp contrast to the thrills provided by the Cyclone,
those who rode the capital markets in recent weeks have had a
far more shrilling cry,” wrote Chief Economist  Frank Nothaft 
and his staff. “Heightened uncertainty, unfortunately, can be
harmful to the overall economy. Perhaps it’s best not to look up
nor down, but keep one’s eyes on the track ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 