-- 
Homo Erectus Processed Food Like Humans, Harvard Scientists Say

-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-08-22T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/homo-erectus-processed-food-like-humans-harvard-scientists-say.html
Extinct human relatives known as
 Homo erectus  cooked and prepared their foods, paving the way for
long-term survival, a study suggests.  By studying remains and DNA extracted from fossils of
hominins like Homo erectus and those of nonhuman primates,
Harvard University researchers found that the ancestors of
humans were avoiding raw meat and consuming processed foods.  Had they not taken that step, humans would be spending
almost half of their time eating and would have missed a major
evolutionary advancement that allowed them to live longer,
according to the report, published today in the  Proceedings of
the  National Academy of Sciences .  “We now know the tradition of food preparation has a very
long history that predates the history of modern humans,” said
the study’s lead author,  Chris Organ , in an interview. “It’s
during this time that you see some massive evolutionary shifts
in the human body.”  Through analysis of body size, DNA and tooth sizes of
primates, modern humans and 14 hominin species, the researchers
found that the efforts of Homo erectus led to the evolution of
small molars and stomachs in modern humans. Raw foods were
softened with fire and tools by Homo erectus for easier
consumption and reduced eating time, the report said.  Without that advancement, humans would spend 48 percent of
their time eating, like ordinary primates do, and wouldn’t have
had time to evolve in other areas, researchers said.  Food for Survival  “Our bodies have adapted to eating cooked food, and now
our bodies rely on it to survive,” said Organ, a researcher at
Harvard in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “If all you had to eat was
wild food, you’d lose so much weight that long-term survival
like that is not feasible.”  Homo erectus lived 70,000 to 1.8 million years ago in
Africa and  Asia , according to the  Smithsonian  National Museum of
Natural History. They are the first species known to have modern
human-like body proportions with longer legs and shorter arms
relative to their torso, according to the museum’s website.
Their fossils are associated with the first appearance of hand
axes, according to the museum.  While the advancement pushed the evolutionary needle in the
favor of humans, it may have indirectly led to drawbacks today,
Organ said.  “We’ve gotten so good at hyper-processing food that it’s
part of our problem with obesity,” he said. “You can extract
many more calories out of very hyper-processed food.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Oliver Renick} in New York at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  