-- 
Honda Civic Seen as Loser as Superior Factory Fails to Offset Design: Cars

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-08-22T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/honda-civic-seen-loser-as-factory-fails-to-offset-design-cars.html
Honda Motor Co.’s reputation for
world-class manufacturing may belie a slipping emphasis on
design just as the automaker’s North American factories are
preparing to return to full production.  Consumer Reports ’ decision this month to pan the Civic, a
onetime favorite, shows Honda may need to focus as much on
design as it does factory accolades and ramping up after  Japan ’s
March earthquake and tsunami, said  Jim Hall , who runs automotive
consulting firm 2953 Analytics Inc. in Birmingham, Michigan.  “Customers don’t care about how the cars are made,” Hall
said. “They care how they drive and how they look. If you are
doing an exceptional job building a mediocre product, that
impresses the industry but not the buyer.”  Honda, the Japanese automaker that is most reliant on
American sales, has sold 2.6 percent fewer vehicles this year in
the U.S. and posted three straight declines in quarterly net
income.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s U.S. sales jumped 23 percent this
year because of gains by its new Elantra compact and Sonata
sedan, rivals to Honda’s Civic and Accord.  Tokyo-based Honda is counting on resuming full assembly at
its North American plants by September and further improving
quality to revive sales. The company’s Greensburg,  Indiana ,
plant, which opened in 2008 and produces the Civic, is rated one
of the world’s best by J.D. Power & Associates.  The Indiana plant received J.D. Power’s “platinum” award,
tying two Toyota Motor Co. factories, based on Power’s 2011
survey of initial quality for new vehicles. Honda factories in
Suzuka, Japan and East Liberty, Ohio, also earned Power awards.  ‘Absent of Character’  The question for some automotive engineering and styling
experts is whether Honda is focusing on the right issues beyond
production. Consumer Reports on Aug. 1 said it can’t recommend
the 2012 Civic, citing a rough ride and noise. The Yonkers, New
York-based magazine previously criticized Honda’s CR-Z and
Insight hybrids and Accord Crosstour and Acura ZDX wagons.  The Civic’s exterior “is miserably absent of character,”
said  Eric Noble , president of The Car Lab, an auto-industry
consulting firm in Orange,  California . “With the previous
version, the styling was polarizing, but it did very well in
terms of sales. I just don’t see that happening this time.”  Honda’s manufacturing capabilities are “exceptional,” said
Jeff Liker, a professor of engineering at the  University of
Michigan  in  Ann Arbor  who studies factory efficiency. “But it
does seem that recently there have been surprisingly many slip-
ups in product development.”  Honda took exception to the Consumer Reports decision and
says its vehicles, not just factories, are winning awards. The
automaker had seven models finish with the highest ratings in
J.D. Power’s annual survey of initial vehicle quality.  ‘Very High Standard’  “We realize that our customers and fans hold Honda to a
very high standard,” said  Jeffrey Smith , Honda’s assistant vice
president for corporate affairs at American Honda, said
yesterday in an e-mail. Smith said he’s confident Honda’s
“products will meet this challenge.”  U.S. sales of the Civic slid 9.7 percent in the first seven
months to 141,577 while  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Focus rose 7.3 percent
to 112,913 and Hyundai’s Elantra gained 56 percent to 118,482.
 General Motors Co. (GM)  has sold 147,620 of its new Cruze model
during the same period and it was the best-selling car in the
U.S. in June.  Honda’s success in the 1980s and 1990s was fueled by
founder Soichiro Honda’s push for “relentless innovation,”
said John Shook, chairman of the Lean Enterprise Institute in
Brookline,  Massachusetts , and a former Toyota engineer.  “Honda was almost a kind of Steve Jobs figure for the
company,” Shook said, referring to Apple Inc.’s chief executive
officer. “Perhaps it’s not fully overcome the loss of his
influence, really pushing hard for innovation.” Soichiro Honda
was involved with the company until his 1991 death.  Honda’s Successes  Honda’s CR-V remains the top-selling sport-utility vehicle
in the U.S. for a fourth year, with deliveries up 17 percent
through July.  A new version of the compact crossover built in East
Liberty,  Ohio , goes on sale this year. The Odyssey minivan that
was revamped last year is still recommended by Consumer Reports,
and Honda is accelerating production at its Alabama plant.  In Marysville, Ohio, a shift on one of two lines eliminated
in 2008 will be restored late this year, said  Ron Lietzke , a
spokesman for the company’s U.S. production unit.  In Indiana, Honda is adding a second assembly shift Oct. 24
and hiring 1,000 workers, said Fred Payne, the factory’s manager
of corporate affairs. The plant also is developing simpler
production techniques that Honda is adopting elsewhere.  The factory is a “culmination of everything we’ve learned
over the past 30 years,” Lietzke said.  Improvements result from changing the production line’s
layout and modifying assembly techniques and not from advanced
equipment, said George Grahovac, manager of Greensburg’s parts
material department.  New methods include teams of only five workers at an
assembly station, compared with 10- to 15-person teams at other
Honda plants, and managers working from desks all along the
open, paperclip-shaped line, Grahovac said. Those allow
immediate reaction when something is wrong, he said.  Liker, the  Michigan  professor, doesn’t doubt Honda’s
factory innovations. It’s the design that needs work, he said.  “They could do a fabulous job in all respects, Liker said.
“Except for what the car looks like.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  