-- 
Hong Kong Central Shop Rents May Surge as Gap, Abercrombie Add More Stores

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-08-22T03:25:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/hong-kong-central-shop-rents-to-boom.html
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  and  Gap
Inc. (GPS) ’s expansion in Hong Kong may help push shop rents in the
Central business district up almost 50 percent over the next
three years, according Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  The U.S.-based retailers are set to open flagship stores on
or near Queen’s Road Central by the first quarter of next year.
Rolex Group, the Swiss watchmaker, has agreed to renew the lease
for a nearby shop at a monthly rate of HK$2.4 million ($308,000),
or HK$2,400 a square foot, the second-highest in the city, the
Hong Kong Economic Times reported Aug. 18, without saying where
it got the information.  Hong Kong’s street level shop rents rose 7.4 percent to a
record in the second quarter from the previous three months
after retail sales climbed and as more tourists from other parts
of China visited the city, according to Colliers International.
Chinese tourists to Hong Kong jumped 26 percent to 22.7 million
in 2010 from a year earlier, according to the city’s tourism
board. The figure reached a daily record of 122,893 on April 30
this year, according to the organization.  “The key to retail is foot traffic and exposure,” said
Tom Gaffney, Hong Kong-based national director of retail at
Jones Lang, the world’s second-biggest commercial brokerage, who
forecasts rents in the area to rise as much as 48 percent over
the next three years. In Central, “you’re seeing these
international brands all expanding into one core area and that’s
going to cause a huge amount of traffic to flood to one
location.”  Chinese tourists account for about 30 percent of retail
spending in Central, said Gaffney.  Sales Jump  Hong Kong’s retail sales jumped 28.8 percent in June to
HK$31.3 billion, the biggest gain in more than a year, on
tourist arrivals and low unemployment, according to government
statistics.  HongKong Land Holdings Ltd. (HKL) , the biggest landlord in
Central, fell 2 percent in Singapore as of 10:42 a.m. local time.
Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., which owns the Aon China Building
where the Rolex shop is, rose 1.6 percent in Hong Kong.  The growth in Chinese tourist spending, which took off in
2004 when the country’s government began easing travel
restrictions by its citizens to Hong Kong, has in the past few
years lured global retailers to set up flagship stores in the
former British colony returned to Chinese rule in 1997.  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , the world’s second-largest clothing
retailer, in 2007 opened a four-story shop, its first in the
city, on the western end of Queen’s Road Central, about a two
minute walk from the planned Gap store. That was followed by
Coach Inc., the biggest U.S. maker of luxury handbags, which
opened a store on the street a year later.  Gradual Evolution  Central, in the northwest of Hong Kong Island, is home to
the regional headquarters of  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , Europe’s biggest
bank and also the city’s stock exchange and securities regulator.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  and Henderson Land Development
Co. in 2003 opened an 800,000-square-foot shopping mall in the
 International Finance Centre  complex, the biggest shopping mall
in Central.  “In the past decade, Central has gradually evolved from a
pure business district,” said Helen Mak, director of retail
services at property brokerage Colliers International. “There’s
now a heavier crowd even during non-business hours and a lot of
that is the result of the addition of a big shopping mall and
flagship stores nearby.”  Gap, Abercrombie  San Francisco-based Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain,
will in November open a 15,000-square-foot store at the ground
floor of the LHT Tower, according to Jones Lang. Across the
street, Abercrombie of New Albany, Ohio, is scheduled to open a
32,000-square-foot shop in a space in the Pedder Building
occupied by Shanghai Tang, a local high-end fashion retailer,
Colliers said.  Monthly shop rents in that area, adjacent to the Lan Kwai
Fong bar and restaurant district, have jumped almost 33 percent
since the end of 2009 to HK$2,000 per square foot, said Mak.  That figure is still behind Causeway Bay’s Russell Street,
which has the world’s third-most expensive retail space after
Manhattan’s Fifth Avenue and Avenue des Champs-Elysees in Paris,
according to Colliers.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  