-- 
Hong Kong’s ‘Scary’ 7.9% Inflation May Fuel Wages Even as Recession Looms

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-08-23T10:36:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/hong-kong-s-worst-inflation-since-1995-may-boost-recession-risk.html
Hong Kong ’s inflation surged to the
fastest pace since 1995, encouraging workers to press for higher
pay even as the economy teeters on the edge of recession.  The  consumer price index  rose 7.9 percent from a year
earlier after a 5.6 percent increase in June, the government
reported on its website yesterday. Excluding distortions caused
by a public housing subsidy, prices rose 5.8 percent.  Hong Kong’s economy will shrink again this quarter after a
contraction in the three months through June that was caused by
an export slowdown, Morgan Stanley and Daiwa Capital Markets say.
Wage increases may add pressure on profit margins just as
businesses including  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  report that they are
grappling with increased rent and material costs.  “The headline CPI figure is pretty scary, and that will
change inflation expectations among residents in a drastic
way,” said Kevin Lai, of Daiwa, the most accurate of nine
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News on gross domestic product
for the second quarter. “The higher business costs and rising
expectations for wage gains may force some companies to close
and hasten the recession,” said Lai, who is based in Hong Kong.  The city’s inflation-linked bonds rose to as much as
HK$107.30 ($13.76) on the stock exchange today, the highest
since their debut on July 29. They closed up 0.3 percent at
$106.90. The initial sale price of the notes, due July 2014, was
HK$100.  Food Prices  McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant chain, said
yesterday that it was raising prices in the city because of
surging costs for rents and ingredients. Subway operator  MTR
Corp. (66)  and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort have also pushed up prices.  “The inflationary pressure is particularly worrying when
coupled with contracting economic growth,” said Shen Jianguang,
a Hong Kong-based economist with Mizuho Securities  Asia  Ltd. who
has worked for the  International Monetary Fund  and the  European
Central Bank . The government will need to announce more “relief
measures,” including transport subsidies, he said.  Officials across Asia are grappling with inflation that
remains elevated even as growth cools. Singapore reported today
that consumer prices rose 5.4 percent in July from a year
earlier, the biggest increase since January.  Pegged Currency  In Hong Kong, a currency peg to the  U.S. dollar  means that
policy makers can’t use  interest rates  to tame inflation.
Official rates move in lock-step with those of the  Federal
Reserve , which has pledged to keep borrowing costs at a record
low through mid-2013.  The city’s inflation is likely to remain “notable in the
near term” for reasons including elevated global food costs,
the government said yesterday.  Food costs in the city jumped 7.4 percent in July from a
year earlier as pork prices climbed, yesterday’s data showed.
Private-housing rentals rose 7.6 percent. The absence of the
government subsidy that was in place a year earlier meant public
housing rents rose more than 3,000 percent.  The risk of a wage-inflation spiral may have increased
after Hong Kong introduced a HK$28 ($3.59) per-hour minimum wage
and the government said it was boosting civil servants’ pay by
as much as 7 percent for the fiscal year ending in March.  ‘Like a Beggar’  Low-income earners, like Nay Leung, 49, an immigrant from
neighboring Guangdong province who works as a cleaner and a food
deliverer, say that rising prices for everything from food to
school books are too much to bear.  “I feel more and more like I am living like a beggar,”
Leung, who lives in Kwun Tong district, said in an interview in
June.  A record 1.26 million Hong Kong residents were living in
poverty as of mid-2010, according to the Hong Kong Council of
Social Service, a government advisory group. Wages adjusted for
inflation are lower now than a decade ago.  Besides fueling social discontent, worsening inflation may
be another blow to investor and business confidence after a 14
percent decline in the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  of stocks this year.  The benchmark closed 2 percent higher today after a Chinese
manufacturing index rose and as investors speculated that the
U.S. Federal Reserve will do more to support growth in the
world’s biggest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  