-- 
Torture in Bahrain Becomes Routine With Help From Nokia Siemens

-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r   a n d   B e n   E l g i n
-- 
2011-08-22T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/torture-in-bahrain-becomes-routine-with-help-from-nokia-siemens-networking.html
The interrogation of Abdul Ghani Al
Khanjar followed a pattern.  First, Bahraini jailers armed with stiff rubber hoses beat
the 39-year-old school administrator and human rights activist
in a windowless room two stories below ground in the  Persian
Gulf  kingdom’s National Security Apparatus building. Then, they
dragged him upstairs for questioning by a uniformed officer
armed with another kind of weapon: transcripts of his text
messages and details from personal mobile phone conversations,
he says.  If he refused to sufficiently explain his communications,
he was sent back for more beatings, says Al Khanjar, who was
detained from August 2010 to February.  “It was amazing,” he says of the messages they obtained.
“How did they know about these?”  The answer: Computers loaded with Western-made surveillance
software generated the transcripts wielded in the interrogations
described by Al Khanjar and scores of other detainees whose
similar treatment was tracked by rights activists, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its October issue.  The spy gear in Bahrain was sold by  Siemens AG (SIE) , and
maintained by Nokia Siemens Networks and NSN’s divested unit,
Trovicor GmbH, according to two people whose positions at the
companies gave them direct knowledge of the installations. Both
requested anonymity because they have signed nondisclosure
agreements. The sale and maintenance contracts were also
confirmed by Ben Roome, a Nokia Siemens spokesman based in
Farnborough,  England .  The Only Way  The only way officers could have obtained messages was
through the interception program, says Ahmed Aldoseri, director
of information and communications technologies at Bahrain’s
Telecommunications Regulatory Authority. While he won’t disclose
details about the program, he says, “If they have a transcript
of an SMS message, it’s because the security organ was
monitoring the user at their monitoring center.”  The use of the system for interrogation in  Bahrain 
illustrates how Western-produced surveillance technology sold to
one authoritarian government became an investigative tool of
choice to gather information about political dissidents -- and
silence them.  Companies are free to sell such equipment almost anywhere.
For the most part, the U.S. and European countries lack export
controls to deter the use of such systems for repression.  Dangerous Products  “The technology is becoming very sophisticated, and the
only thing limiting it is how deeply governments want to snoop
into lives,” says Rob Faris, research director of the  Berkman
Center for Internet and Society  at Harvard University in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “Surveillance is typically a state
secret, and we only get bits and pieces that leak out.”  Some industry insiders now say their own products have
become dangerous in the hands of regimes where law enforcement
crosses the line to repression.  The images of the Arab spring crackdowns earlier this year
unnerved Nikhil Gyamlani, who as a consultant for Trovicor and
 Nokia Siemens  had developed monitoring systems and sold them to
some of the countries. The authorities jammed or restricted
communications to stymie gatherings and knew where to send riot
police before a protest could even start, according to
eyewitness reports.  For that to happen, government officials had to have some
means of figuring out where to go or whom to target to nip
protests in the bud, Gyamlani, 34, says.  Targeting With Technology  “There’s very little chance a government is smart enough
without this technology,” he says while smoking Marlboros and
drinking Bavarian beer on the patio of a pasta restaurant in
Munich. Gyamlani says nondisclosure agreements with his former
employers prohibit him from revealing details about specific
countries he worked with.  At least 30 people have been killed so far in this year’s
uprising in Bahrain, a U.S. ally situated between Qatar and
 Saudi Arabia  that is home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet.
Security forces beat paramedics, doctors and nurses who treated
the wounded, and prosecutors have charged dozens of medical
workers with crimes such as “incitement against the regime,”
according to Human Rights Watch. In June, the U.S. put Bahrain
on its list of human rights violators.  A Secretive World  Across the  Middle East  in recent years, sales teams at
Siemens, Nokia Siemens, Munich-based  Trovicor  and other
companies have worked their connections among spy masters,
police chiefs and military officers to provide country after
country with monitoring gear, industry executives say. Their
story is a window into a secretive world of surveillance
businesses that is transforming the political and social fabric
of countries from North Africa to the Persian Gulf.  Monitoring centers, as the systems are called, are sold
around the globe by these companies and their competitors, such
as Israel-based  Nice Systems Ltd. (NICE) , and  Verint Systems Inc. (VRNT) ,
headquartered in Melville,  New York . They form the heart of so-
called lawful interception surveillance systems. The equipment
is marketed largely to law enforcement agencies tracking
terrorists and other criminals.  The toolbox allows more than the interception of phone
calls, e-mails, text messages and Voice Over Internet Protocol
calls such as those made using Skype. Some products can also
secretly activate laptop webcams or microphones on mobile
devices. They can change the contents of written communications
in mid-transmission, use voice recognition to scan phone
networks, and pinpoint people’s locations through their mobile
phones. The monitoring systems can scan communications for key
words or recognize voices and then feed the data and recordings
to operators at government agencies.  ‘Effective As Weapons’  Monitoring technology is among the newest artillery in an
unfolding digital arms race, says Marietje Schaake, a European
Parliament member who tracks abuses of information and
communications technology. “We have to acknowledge that certain
software products now are actually as effective as weapons,” she
says.  Uprisings from Tunisia to Bahrain have drawn strength from
technologies such as social-networking sites and mobile-phone
videos. Yet, the flip side of the technology that played a part
in this year’s “Facebook revolutions” may be far more
forceful.  Rulers fought back, exploiting their citizens’ digital
connections with increasingly intrusive tools.  They’ve tapped a market that’s worth more than $3 billion a
year, according to Jerry Lucas, president of McLean, Virginia-
based  TeleStrategies Inc. , organizer of the ISS World trade
shows for intelligence and lawful interception businesses. He
derives that estimate by applying per-employee revenue figures
from publicly traded Verint’s lawful intercept business across
the mostly privately held industry.  ‘Push-Button Autocracy’  In the hands of autocrats, the surveillance gear is
providing unprecedented power to monitor and crush dissent -- a
phenomenon that Ben Wagner of the European University Institute
in Florence,  Italy , calls “push-button autocracy.”  The technology has become pervasive. By the end of 2007,
the Nokia Siemens Intelligence Solutions unit had more than 90
systems installed in 60 countries, according to company
brochures.  Besides Bahrain, several other Middle Eastern nations that
cracked down on uprisings this year -- including Egypt, Syria
and Yemen -- also purchased monitoring centers from the chain of
businesses now known as Trovicor. Trovicor equipment plays a
surveillance role in at least 12 Middle Eastern and North
African nations, according to the two people familiar with the
installations.  Intelligence Solutions  Trovicor’s precursor, which started in 1993 as the voice-
and data-recording unit of Siemens, in 2007 became part of Nokia
Siemens Networks, the world’s second biggest maker of wireless
communications equipment. NSN, a 50-50 joint venture with Espoo,
Finland-based  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , sold the unit, known as Intelligence
Solutions, in March 2009. The new owners, Guernsey-based Perusa
Partners Fund 1 LP, renamed the business Trovicor, coined from
the Latin and Esperanto words for find and heart, according to
the company’s website.  “We are very aware that communications technology can be
used for good and ill,” NSN spokesman Roome says. The elevated
risk of human rights abuses was a major reason for NSN’s exiting
the monitoring-center business, and the company has since
established a human rights policy and due diligence program, he
says.  “Ultimately people who use this technology to infringe
human rights are responsible for their actions,” he says.  Little Documentation  Asked whether Trovicor or its predecessors sold monitoring
centers to Middle Eastern nations that have cracked down on
uprisings this year, Roome says the company can’t talk about
specific countries. NSN retained little documentation on the
business after divesting it and has no data about the scope of
its monitoring-center sales in the Mideast, he says.  Wolfram Trost, a spokesman for Munich-based Siemens,
 Europe ’s largest engineering company, says he can’t comment
because all documentation from the intelligence solutions unit
had been transferred to Nokia Siemens.  Birgitt Fischer-Harrow, Trovicor’s head of marketing
communications, said Trovicor’s contracts prevent it from
disclosing its customers or the countries where it does
business. She declined to comment further.  Trovicor’s owners only invest in ethical businesses, says
Christian Hollenberg, a founder of Munich-based Perusa GmbH, the
adviser to the Perusa investment fund. He includes in that
category Trovicor, which the fund owns in its entirety.  “It’s a legal business, and it’s part of every
communications network in the civilized world,” he says.  140 Allegations  Bahrain is confronting alleged human rights violations
through the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry, a panel
established in June by royal decree to probe the recent
violence, says government spokesman Abdul-Aziz bin Mubarak Al
Khalifa, the international counselor at Bahrain’s Information
Affairs Authority. Since July 24, the  commission  has recorded
140 allegations of physical abuse and torture, according to an
Aug. 10 statement on its website.  “The first things we’re hearing is there wasn’t systematic
abuse or torture, but there were abuses by rogue individuals
within the security apparatus,” the government spokesman says.
He says he isn’t in a position to comment on surveillance
equipment or a specific interrogation.  Valuable Tool  Most countries, including the U.S. and European Union member
states, employ interception technology in their
telecommunications and data systems. A valuable tool for law
enforcement, monitoring technology typically is accompanied by
strict privacy protections and meets standards established by
the European Telecommunications Standards Institute and similar
organizations. After 9/11, as part of the war on terror, the
administration of President George W. Bush secretly -- and
controversially -- authorized the National Security Agency to
monitor communications to and from the U.S.  The Iranian Nobel Peace Prize winner Shirin Ebadi and other
human rights activists have blamed Nokia Siemens for aiding
government repression. In 2009, the company disclosed that it
sold a monitoring center to  Iran , prompting hearings in the
European Parliament, proposals for tighter restrictions on U.S.
trade with Iran, and an international “No to Nokia” boycott
campaign.  While there have been credible reports the gear may have
been used to crack down on Iranian dissidents, those claims have
never been substantiated, NSN spokesman Roome says.  In Bahrain, officials routinely use surveillance in the
arrest and torture of political opponents, according to Nabeel
Rajab, president of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights. He says
he has evidence of this from former detainees, including Al
Khanjar, and their lawyers and family members.  ‘Even Our Children’  During the recent crackdown, Rajab says, monitoring was
pervasive.  “Everyone was interrogated based on telephone calls that
were checked -- and not only us, the activists,” he says. “Even
our children, our wives, our sisters are being monitored.”  At Bahrain’s telecommunications regulator, Aldoseri says
monitoring technology is used only by order of legal authorities
such as judges and prosecutors. A former fighter pilot,
Aldoseri, 33, led the drafting of Bahrain’s 2009 regulations for
lawful interception.  Available  online , the regulations make clear that every
phone and Internet operator must provide the state with the
ability to monitor communications. Phone companies also must
track the location of phones within a 164-foot (50-meter)
radius, the rules say.  ‘Risk of Abuse’  “You have the risk of abuse, so we made it as public as
possible,” Aldoseri says.  For Bahraini security agents, monitoring centers are
essential for gathering and printing text messages and other
transmissions, Aldoseri says.  He says it’s impossible to know which contractor’s
monitoring center processed a particular text message
transcript. He says he’s barred from identifying vendors.  “I can neither confirm nor deny that Trovicor is there,”
he says. “It could be their monitoring center or it could be
someone else.”  During the Arab spring, it was easy to spot the company’s
fingerprints, says Gyamlani. Tuning in to  Germany ’s N24 news
channel at his home in Munich, he immediately suspected that
governments were abusing systems he’d installed.  Failed uprisings stood out to him because of the way the
authorities quashed unrest before it spread, says Gyamlani, a
native of  India  who moved to Germany 12 years ago to study and
work.  Remote Kill Switches  Once the equipment is installed, Gyamlani says, there is no
way to shut it down long distance. He’s forming a new company,
GlassCube, that he says will feature remote kill switches as
well as other technology and contract requirements that would
enable companies to curb such abuses from afar.  “With the power comes a big responsibility; this is a
business where people can get killed,” he says. “It was
depressing to see there was no control mechanism.”  Visitors to Trovicor’s headquarters on the third floor of a
glass office building in Munich are greeted by a life-size
statue of the company’s mascot -- a stalking panther -- by the
reception desk. The mascot is a carryover from the Nokia Siemens
unit, as were most of the company’s roughly 170 workers, current
and former employees say.  Former and current Trovicor and Nokia Siemens employees
interviewed declined to be identified by name when discussing
company business in specific countries. Clients contacted
declined to speak on the record about specific contracts.  ‘Hidden Somewhere’  Al Khanjar, the Bahraini activist beaten during
interrogations about his text messages, is in hiding today. He
says he’s reluctant to communicate by mobile phone and takes
calls using Skype on a computer with software that disguises its
location. The Internet connection is his only way of
communicating with his wife and 9-year-old son.  “I’m hidden somewhere,” he says. “I’m unfortunately in
Bahrain. They’re going to kill me. What to do? What to do?”  Al Khanjar took up the anti-torture cause after being
detained and interrogated for six days in 2000. His jailers
handcuffed him, hung him from a stick “like a goat” and beat
the soles of his feet, he says.  He’s now spokesman for the government-banned Bahraini
National Committee for Martyrs and Victims of Torture. He and
other activists have documented the security service’s human
rights violations for a decade, he says. His activism includes
work with the  United Nations Committee Against Torture  and
appearances on Qatar’s Al Jazeera channel.  An Agonizing Stretch  Al Khanjar says that on Aug. 15, 2010, three days after he
returned from speaking about  human rights  to a committee at the
House of Lords in  London , plainclothes police knocked on his
door in Bahrain at about 2:30 a.m. It was the start of a six-
month ordeal.  For his first 85 days or so in custody, Al Khanjar saw no
one from the outside, he says. For one agonizing stretch, his
jailers forced him to stand without sleeping for five days. At
other times they beat him with hoses and their hands and
threatened him with sexual abuse, he says.  Al Khanjar’s interrogators repeatedly quizzed him about his
contacts with Iran, where his wife’s family originated
generations ago, he says. They also focused on his activities in
opposition politics and in religious gatherings with fellow
Shiite Muslims, who form a majority of the kingdom’s population
yet are ruled by the Sunni minority.  Tracking Calls  “They had collected their information from tracking
calls,” he says, including whom he spoke with and what they
said. “They told me a lot of things about our activities in the
human rights field and political activities I’d participated
in.”  And they showed him several pages of transcripts of his
text messages. An interrogator held the papers in front of Al
Khanjar, pointing out the Arabic words printed in black ink on
white paper and reading aloud details such as the dates and
recipients of the texts, he says.  Al Khanjar says he sent one of the messages on June 9,
2009, after a flight to Qatar to visit a friend. His trip was
thwarted when Qatar refused him entry at the Bahrain
government’s request. He suspected that his appearances on the
satellite news channel, based in Qatar, explained the Bahraini
government’s interest in his travel there. Al Khanjar fired off
the text to a fellow activist. “What happened to me is because
of Al Jazeera,” it read.  ‘No Windows’  More than a year later, when Al Khanjar was in jail,
authorities seized on a transcript of that message, asking what
he meant by it, particularly the reference to Al Jazeera, he
says. Suspicious of his explanation, officers threatened to put
him in a solitary confinement cell with no toilet two floors
down -- the same floor where they tortured prisoners.  “You cannot hear anything,” Al Khanjar says. “You don’t
know the time. You don’t know if it’s day or night. No
windows.”  Only after overhearing officers refer in radio chatter
among themselves to their national security building as Jazeera
did he conclude their interest in his innocuous text message was
a misunderstanding that he had been making a reference to their
facilities.  “They thought that I knew something about their code,” he
says.  A prosecutor charged Al Khanjar with crimes that included
establishing a group in violation of the law and inciting and
participating in unauthorized meetings of more than five people
for the purpose of undermining national security, according to a
copy of the indictment translated by the  Bar Human Rights
Committee of England and Wales.   Torture Testimony  An arm of the England and Wales lawyers association, the
committee sent a delegation to Bahrain that observed an Oct. 28,
2010, hearing in the case against Al Khanjar and 22 others
arrested at the same time.  The detainees testified about being tortured while in
custody, according to the bar committee’s February 2011 report:
beatings, particularly to the legs and ears; being kept in
stress positions or naked for prolonged periods; hanging in a
position called falaqa in which the detainee is suspended from a
bar and the soles of his feet beaten; and, in some cases, sexual
abuse.  The actions violated both international law and the laws of
Bahrain, the report concluded. “Credible and pervasive
allegations of mistreatment and torture, which are dismissed as
fabrication by the Public Prosecutor, completely undermine the
rule of law,” it stated.  Convicted in Absentia  In February, before Al Khanjar’s trial had reached its
conclusion, protests flared and the government released all 23
detainees to relieve political tensions. Al Khanjar immediately
went into hiding.  A separate military tribunal later tried him and others --
many, like him, in absentia -- and convicted them on charges
that included trying to overthrow the government. Al Khanjar,
who denies the charges in this and the earlier case, was
sentenced to 15 years in prison.  Al Khanjar says the first of his communications used in the
interrogations was intercepted in June 2009. At that time, the
Nokia Siemens family of related companies was the only known
supplier and maintainer of monitoring centers to Bahrain, the
two people familiar with the installations say. The clusters of
computers required constant upgrades by the companies, they say.  Company executives understood that they had the only
monitoring-center computers in the country, based on
conversations with Bahraini officials, one of those familiar
with the situation says. The other says he knew of the
arrangement from internal company communications. Neither knows
whether the equipment originally installed and maintained by the
companies is still in use.  Exclusive Provider  NSN and Trovicor’s status as exclusive provider in Bahrain
continued at least through 2009, the two people familiar with
the installation say. That period of more than two years
coincides with the dates of text messages used to interrogate
scores of political detainees, human rights advocate Rajab says.  Based on his conversations with former detainees and their
representatives, he says that authorities used messages that
dated as far back as the mid-2000s, even in recent
interrogations.  Schaake, 32, who represents the Netherlands in the European
Parliament, says companies should be barred from exporting such
equipment to countries with poor human rights records. U.S. and
EU export laws and UN sanctions control just a narrow slice of
technology such as weapons systems or data encryption.
International embargoes that cover a broader range of equipment
target only a small circle of the worst actors, such as Myanmar
and North Korea.  Transparency and Accountability  “It is time for more pressure, for more transparency and
accountability when it comes to these products and services,”
Schaake says. As a first step, Schaake says surveillance systems
involving information and communications technology should join
military items such as missile parts on lists of restricted
exports.  Schaake helped to sponsor a parliamentary resolution in
February 2010 that called for the EU’s executive body, the
European Commission, to ban exports of such technology to
regimes that could abuse it. The commission hasn’t implemented
the nonbinding resolution.  The U.S. Congress passed a law in 2010 barring federal
contracts with any businesses that sold monitoring gear to Iran.
An investigation ordered by Congress and completed in June by
the Government Accountability Office was unable to identify any
companies supplying the technology to Iran, partly because the
business is so secretive, the agency reported.  Lack of Oversight  Al Khanjar says lightly regulated sales of lawful
interception technology expose an industry lacking appropriate
oversight.  “The  United Nations  should put pressure on those companies
that supply equipment to these tyrant regimes,” he says.  Bahraini government regulator Aldoseri says the companies
are all too happy to sell the equipment regardless of what
happens once it’s installed.  “If you provide someone with a knife, you expect them to
use it responsibly,” he says. That’s not necessarily the case
with surveillance companies, he says.  “They don’t ask any of the operators or security organs
what happens after. They provide equipment to filter and monitor
and they don’t care about due process.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Elgin in  San Francisco  at 
 belgin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  