-- 
Motorola Value Found in 18 Patents Used Against Apple: Tech

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-08-22T18:47:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/motorola-s-value-for-google-found-in-18-patents-used-against-apple-tech.html
Among  Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. (MMI) ’s more than 17,000 patents, a group of 18 may prove most
useful in  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s effort to fend off litigation targeting
the Android mobile platform.  The inventions date back to 1994 and form the heart of
three Motorola lawsuits against  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , making them among
the stars of the portfolio, said  David Mixon , a patent lawyer at
Bradley Arant Boult Cummings in Huntsville,  Alabama . They cover
technology essential to the mobile-device industry, including
location services, antenna designs, e-mail transmission, touch-
screen motions, software-application management and third-
generation wireless.  “Any patent owner, before they consider litigation is
going to carefully evaluate their patents to withstand an
attack,” Mixon said in a telephone interview. “You don’t want
to hold any back. You want to pick your strongest patents.”  Google is counting on its $12.5 billion acquisition of
Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola Mobility to strengthen its
patent lineup as Apple and  Microsoft Corp. (MSF)  challenge Android,
the best-selling smartphone operating system in the second
quarter. Google had been issued fewer than 1,000 patents as of
the start of this year. Motorola Mobility would add another
17,000, as well as about 7,500 pending applications.  “There are a lot of sweet patents in that portfolio,”
said Dean Becker, chief executive officer of Palm Beach,
Florida-based ICAP Patent Brokerage, the world’s largest. He
said Google only needs a few to bolster its legal position.  On the Sidelines  Android was introduced on handsets three years ago to
further Google’s advertising business and is provided free to
device makers including Motorola Mobility,  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)  The platform accounted for 43.3 percent of the
smartphone market last quarter, according to  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based research firm Gartner Inc. Cupertino,
California-based Apple had an 18.2 percent share.  The U.S. International Trade Commission, which arbitrates
patent-related disputes, has fielded more than a dozen cases in
the past year related to smartphones and tablets. Because Google
doesn’t profit directly from Android, it has been able to sit
mostly on the sidelines while its partners were sued.  Google has been sued twice by competitors over Android --
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and Skyhook Wireless Inc. -- and has never led a
patent-infringement case against another company. It declined to
comment for this story, as did Motorola Mobility and Apple.  An ITC judge last month found HTC’s Android phones
infringed two Apple patents, which may spur a U.S. import ban.  ‘Under Threat’  “We’ve been saying for some time that we intend to protect
the Android ecosystem,” David Drummond, chief legal officer at
Mountain View, California-based Google, said during a conference
call with analysts last week. “It’s under threat.”  Motorola Mobility, which created the consumer market for
mobile phones with the DynaTAC 8000X “brick” in 1983, and
Apple, which reinvented the industry with the “smart” iPhone
in 2007, are among the larger companies that have been battling
over ownership of mobile technology. Motorola Mobility, spun off
from Motorola Inc. in January, picked a fight with Apple in
October when it filed three lawsuits and an ITC complaint.  The cases target Apple  products  including the iPhone 4,
iPad, AppleTV and MacBook Air. Motorola Mobility used four of
the 18 patents from the Apple cases to help push BlackBerry
maker  Research in Motion Ltd.  into a cross-licensing settlement
last year. That deal required Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM to
make an undisclosed upfront payment and pay royalties.  Balance of Power  The balance of power is shifting toward Google with this
acquisition of Motorola Mobility, so the option for settlements
and cross-licensing will become “inevitable,” said Ron
Epstein, CEO of Epicenter IP Group LLC, a Redwood City,
California-based patent brokerage.  “We’re in a market battle here and people are using
innovation as a tool for who will win,” he said. “The only way
to protect your innovation from copying is patents.”  One patent from 2001 disables a “touch sensitive” sensor
when a smartphone is near a user’s head to prevent inadvertent
hang-ups or dialing. Another from 1994 aims to increase data
storage, while a third enables users to control when a global
positioning system sends their location data over a network.  In a patent-infringement case that started today at the
International Trade Commission, Microsoft accused Motorola
Mobility of infringing seven of its patents and requested a halt
to imports of certain Motorola phones. The trial is the first
smartphone dispute to be heard since Google announced it would
buy Motorola Mobility.  Motorola Mobility also has a “leading position” in
fourth-generation wireless networks, CEO Sanjay Jha said on a
conference call last month.  ‘Back Off’  In addition to the Apple fight, Motorola Mobility has
claimed Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft infringes some of
its patents over video technology and is seeking to block
imports of the Xbox video-game console.  Even with a stronger patent portfolio for Google, Apple is
likely to continue to pursue its patent battles against HTC and
Samsung, said  Peter Misek , an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in
New York.  “This is a war,” Misek said.  Apple filed its own patent-infringement complaints against
Motorola in October at the  ITC  and in federal court in Madison,
 Wisconsin . Apple also filed a civil suit in March accusing
Motorola Mobility of “a pattern of unfair, deceptive and
anticompetitive conduct” and said the company demanded higher
licensing rates than for other competitors over three years of
talks. Microsoft has made the same allegations over Motorola’s
licensing demands, which Motorola has denied in both cases.  Epstein said the strength of the 18 patents from the
Motorola Mobility portfolio is likely the tip of the iceberg.  “I would be shocked if they brought all of the patents
they thought were of value in this first round of litigation,”
Epstein said. “They brought a set of patents that they thought
would do a job they set out for, which is telling Apple to back
off.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  