-- 
A Hotter Planet Doesn’t Have to Be Hungrier: Michael J. Roberts

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-08-22T00:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/hotter-planet-doesn-t-have-to-be-hungry-commentary-by-michael-j-roberts.html
For the rest of this summer and
through the fall we’re going to see great volatility in
agricultural commodity prices. Inventories for key staples are
low, and world demand is growing fast. In response to near-
record prices last spring, U.S. farmers, stewards of the world’s
largest breadbasket, have managed near-record plantings.  Prices now hinge on the weather. If the heat persists and
crops wilt, prices will set record highs. If milder weather
returns, prices will plummet as big yields replenish depleted
inventories.  We can’t know whether the current heat wave and drought are
due specifically to human-induced climate change. But we can
safely expect that such heat waves, and ones even more severe,
will occur with increasing frequency. And agriculture is the
industry that will be most directly affected by warming.  Combined with rapid global  population growth  and with
biofuel subsidies and mandates that have diverted about 40
percent of the U.S. corn crop to ethanol production, climate
change has brought us to the precipice of what might turn out to
be a catastrophe for the world’s poorest. If food commodity
prices double or triple from today’s already elevated levels,
hundreds of millions who spend most of their income on these
basic grains could suffer severe malnutrition, illness and
starvation.  Higher-Priced Crops  Those of us in relatively rich nations may hardly notice
higher prices for crops such as corn, soybeans, rice and wheat.
These four comprise about 75 percent of food calories for the
world, but they account for just a few pennies of our food
dollar, which mostly goes to labor involved in processing and
retailing. That commodities are a trivial share of our food
budget helps explain why their prices are so volatile -- and why
the marketplace probably will not be much help in pushing
agriculture to adapt to global warming.  Before getting further into how the market works, though,
consider what we know about the potential effects of global
warming. Until recently, most agricultural researchers were
surprisingly sanguine about its effects on food production. In
fact, many thought warming would bring a net gain. In its most
recent report, in 2007, the Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate
Change  concluded, “Globally, the potential for food production
is projected to increase with increases in local average
temperature over a range of 1 to 3 degrees Centigrade.”  Although plant scientists assumed that, in general, warming
would be bad for crop yields, in the most temperate and
productive regions -- including the U.S. -- the negative effects
were expected to be more than offset by a boost that plants
would get from having higher concentrations of carbon dioxide in
the air. (Plants sequester atmospheric carbon dioxide for
photosynthesis.) Plus, it was thought that by extending growing
seasons in colder regions, warming might open up whole new
growing areas.  Recent research has dampened this optimism.  As far back as 2006,  Stephen Long , a crop scientist at the
University of  Illinois , and his colleagues published persuasive
new  evidence  showing that carbon dioxide fertilization -- that
expected boost to yield -- could be much smaller than previously
thought. And since 2007, my colleagues and I have amassed a pile
of evidence showing that the negative effects of warmer
temperatures could be worse than scientists have assumed.  Shrinking Yields  Research just published by my colleagues  David Lobell , of
 Stanford University , and  Wolfram Schlenker , of  Columbia
University ,  estimates  that climate change has already caused a 4
percent to 5 percent reduction in world production of wheat and
corn. This happened even though  North America  has thus far
escaped warming during crucial growing-season months. If warming
proceeds as the IPCC has projected, an extrapolation based on
historical relationships between yield and weather indicates
that, by 2035, U.S. yields will be 20 percent to 30 percent
lower than they would have been without warming. By 2085, that
shortfall will be as much as 80 percent.  Plant breeders and genetic scientists may be able to
mitigate this problem by developing plants with greater
tolerance for heat. But this will be challenging. Although
today’s corn and soybean plants have greater yield potential
than they had 50 years ago and show more tolerance for drought,
they are if anything less tolerant to extreme heat.  In recent years, public research money -- the root source
of past agricultural productivity gains -- has declined. This is
especially sad when you consider that past public-research
investments paid annual rates of return estimated at 45 percent
to 50 percent, numbers any hedge-fund manager could envy.  Now the tough job of cracking heat tolerance rests mainly
on the shoulders of private companies such as  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and
Pioneer Hi-Bred. Yet, so far, breeders have focused their
research efforts on developing plants with greater tolerance for
pests, herbicides and drought, not for heat. The Gates
Foundation is now funding some work to fill that gap.  If innovation can compensate for climate change, it will
take a long time. Work by  Julian Alston , of the  University of
California  at Davis, suggests the time lag from investment to
productivity gain can be 20 to 30 years or more. For genetically
modified crops, which must undergo an especially complicated and
drawn-out regulatory process, the lag could be a decade longer.  Market Forces  If innovation cannot fully compensate for climate change,
it would be nice if marketplace forces could help us adapt.  But the trouble here is that prices of agricultural
commodities are extremely sensitive to quantities. History has
taught us that even small, temporary shifts in expected supply
can send prices soaring or plummeting. This is what we are
seeing today, as news about the weather or a crop progress
report from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  drastically
affects prices of corn, wheat and soybeans. This volatility is
especially remarkable considering the global scale of
agricultural production and trade, and the fact that inventories
can usually buffer global production shocks. So when prices
shoot up or fall, our consumption changes very little. In
economist jargon, we say demand is highly inelastic.  Another lesson from history is that price increases and
declines tend to persist. Whatever price change occurs this
year, for example, roughly 80 percent of it can be expected to
stick around until next year and about 65 percent of it until
the year after that. This persistence indicates that
agricultural supply, like demand, is very inelastic. For if
supply were more responsive to prices -- if the world’s farmers
could quickly cultivate new crops to make up for past losses --
then price swings would be smaller and more temporary.  The inelasticity of demand and supply implies that adapting
to global warming could be painful for some. It’s not that we
will all be forced to live in misery, or even that we won’t
produce enough food to feed everyone. It’s that the rich won’t
adapt by consuming less resource-rich food such as meat and
dairy products (derived mainly from corn- and soybean-fed
animals) because they can easily afford not to. And if the
wealthy choose not to consume fewer resources, this will help
push prices to levels that the urban and landless poor can’t
afford.  Adapting to Warming  If world prosperity were not so disparate, I suspect we
could easily adapt to climate change. We might eat less meat,
build space-age greenhouses or industrialize  food production  on
a scale beyond anything heretofore dreamed. Or we might all
start growing our own gardens and keeping chickens. We would
spend a greater share of our income on food, but life would be a
far cry from Malthusian misery.  Sadly, climate change may well cause extreme misery for
others. I sympathize with Martin Weitzman, the Harvard economist
who argues that the small probability that global warming will
cause an extremely bad outcome could be enough to justify
spending a substantial share of gross domestic product to curb
it. Restraining greenhouse gas emissions would actually cost
only a small fraction of GDP (1 percent to 2 percent or less, by
most serious calculations), but it doesn’t look as though we’re
going to do it. In any case, a considerable amount of warming is
already baked in.  So what should we do?  Besides pushing tirelessly for a sensible international
agreement that would put a price on greenhouse gas emissions,
there are some relatively low-cost things we could do to
facilitate adaptation and quell rising commodity prices.  First, we could restore some of the funding to crop
sciences. Research dollars could be directed toward the basic
research that private companies are less inclined to undertake.
Some might also be aimed at developing crop varieties more
tolerant of warmer temperatures.  Second, we could persuade countries to reform their
processes for approving new genetically modified crops.  Ingo
Potrykus’s  genetically engineered golden rice, developed in
1999, promises to substantially reduce the millions of deaths
worldwide each year that stem from vitamin A deficiency. But due
to regulatory hurdles, this life-saving variety of rice will not
reach the market until at least next year.  Such delay discourages new research as well as attempts to
commercialize on-the-shelf discoveries that have already been
made. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
could help by establishing a standard, reasonable approval
process for genetically modified crops in developed nations.
This would likely set a precedent that many developing nations
could also adopt.  Development Challenges  Third, it’s clear that more effective development policy
would double as better climate policy. It’s not only that rich
and poor adapt differently to higher food prices. It’s also that
the world’s most developmentally challenged places --
particularly in  Africa  -- possess much of the world’s
underutilized land.  Even if agriculture is able to meet the challenge of
climate change and extreme heat, variable weather and volatile
commodity prices will remain. Although that volatility can be
disconcerting, it reflects a market working to allocate scarce
commodities efficiently -- a job the market does reasonably
well. With the right policies in place, food price swings,
though still unpredictable, need not be as potentially
catastrophic as the weather.  (Michael J. Roberts, a professor of agricultural and
resource economics at  North Carolina State University , in
Raleigh, studies the effects of climate change on the production
of staple food grains. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael J. Roberts at  mjrober2@ncsu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 