-- 
Louboutin, Waffle House, Davis, Levi,: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-22T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/louboutin-waffle-house-kimberly-clark-intellectual-property.html
A judge put off deciding whether to
cancel Christian Louboutin SA’s trademark for high-fashion red-
soled women’s shoes in the company’s lawsuit against  Yves Saint
Laurent  America.  Louboutin’s lawyers urged U.S. District Judge  Victor
Marrero  in New York not to convert his earlier refusal to bar
Yves Saint Laurent from selling its own red-soled shoes into an
outright cancellation of the U.S. trademark. The judge said Aug.
19 he will delay a ruling while Louboutin appeals his decision.  “The better course is to simply allow the appeal to
proceed and halt any further proceedings till we get guidance”
from the New York-based federal circuit court, Marrero said.  The judge on Aug. 10 rejected closely held Louboutin’s
request for a preliminary injunction to protect the trademark
while the case proceeds, saying it’s not likely to win its fight
for a trademark for a color.  “Color serves ornamental and aesthetic functions vital to
robust competition,” the judge said. “Louboutin is unlikely to
be able to prove that its red outsole brand is entitled to
trademark protection.”  Louboutin, a Paris-based fashion company, said in the
lawsuit, filed in April, that Yves Saint Laurent’s red-soled
shoes “threaten to mislead the public.”  Yves Saint Laurent, a unit of Paris-based  PPR (PP)  named for the
designer who died in 2008, began selling shoes with red outsoles
“long before Mr. Louboutin began using them,” David Bernstein,
a lawyer for the company, said at a hearing last month.  Lee C. Bromberg, a lawyer for Louboutin, argued Aug. 19
that the company needed more time to show why the trademark
shouldn’t be canceled.  “We need an additional opportunity to marshal evidence,”
Bromberg told the judge. He said he seeks evidence on how the
fashion industry operates, how designers select colors and
whether Louboutin’s trademark would be a “hindrance to
competition,” as the judge indicated in his ruling.  Jyotin Hamid, a lawyer for Yves Saint Laurent, argued that
a search for evidence would be time-consuming and costly.  “The fundamental fact that color serves a function in
fashion is not in dispute,” Hamid said. “The facts are not
going to change as a result of reviewing e-mails in  France .”  Designer Christian Louboutin got the idea for the red soles
when he painted red nail polish on the black soles of a pair of
women’s shoes.  All of Louboutin’s luxury shoes have had red soles since
their introduction in 1992, according to court papers.
“Louboutin is only in the shoe business,” Bromberg said.  Louboutin’s high-heeled shoes are priced from $535 to
$4,645 a pair on the website of department store  Barneys . Many
 celebrities have been photographed wearing the shoes , including
 Oprah Winfrey , Angelina Jolie and Heidi Klum.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Louboutin registered a lacquered red sole as a trademark
for “women’s high fashion designer footwear” in January 2008.
That same month the company also registered the image of a red
shoe sole as a trademark for other classes of goods, including
handbags, parasols, luggage and wallets.  The case is Christian Louboutin SA v. Yves Saint Laurent
America Inc., 11-2381, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  ( Manhattan ).  Australian Health Minister Says Cigarette Packaging Bill Will
Pass  Australia ’s Health Minister Nicola Roxon  told the Herald
Sun  she expects the bill requiring plain packaging for
cigarettes will pass in Parliament, despite opposition from the
tobacco industry.  The government wants all cigarettes sold in Australia to be
packaged in a plain olive brown wrap beginning in mid-2012,
according to the Herald Sun.  One part of the proposed legislation will protect tobacco
companies’ trademarks from authorized use, the newspaper
reported.  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott  said that while his party
supported plain packaging, it was opposed to the section of the
legislation related to trademarks because it would “overturn
the ordinary parliamentary arrangements under which legislation
becomes regulation, according to the Herald Sun.  Waffle House Demands Hip-Hop Performer Change His Song Title  Waffle House Inc., the Norcross, Georgia-based restaurant
chain, sent a cease-and-desist letter to rapper J.R. Bricks
demanding he change the name of his “Waffle House” single, the
AllHipHop.com music news website  reported .  Bricks’s suggestion he change the name to “Wafflehaus
(After the Club)” was also rejected by the chain, according to
the music website.  The singer told AllHipHop.com that while he didn’t think
the request was motivated by racial prejudice -- he is black --
he thought perhaps the company didn’t want to be associated with
the hip-hop lifestyle.  Miles Davis’s Trademark Owners Sue New York’s Miles’ Cafe  The owners of the late jazz trumpeter Miles Davis’s
trademarks sued the operators of a Manhattan jazz club called
Miles’ Cafe alleging infringement.  Miles Davis Properties LLC, which includes two of Davis’s
children and a nephew, said today the club and an owner, Satoru
“Miles” Kobayashi, violated registered trademarks including
one of a silhouette of the musician and composer playing his
trumpet, in a complaint in federal court in Manhattan.  “Defendants are intentionally free-riding off the goodwill
associated with the Miles Davis marks by using them to promote a
jazz club entitled Miles’ Cafe in a way that is likely to
mislead the public,” lawyers for the trademark owners said in
the complaint.  Kobayashi, a trumpeter, told a publication that Miles Davis
appeared to him in a dream and told him to change his first name
to Miles and open a cafe in his name, according to the
complaint.  No one answered the phone at the Miles’ Cafe on 52nd Street
in Manhattan. According to the club’s website, Miles’ Cafe was
founded in  Tokyo  in 2000.  Davis, who died in 1991, released 67 studio albums and 51
live albums, court papers state. His 1959 album “Kind of Blue”
is the best-selling jazz album of all time, according to the
complaint. A pioneer in various styles of jazz including cool,
hard bop, modal and fusion, Davis received eight Grammy awards
and was inducted into the Rock ‘n’ Roll Hall of Fame.  Miles Davis Properties hasn’t authorized any use of the
name for a jazz club or other entertainment venue, the complaint
states.  The case is Miles Davis Properties LLC v. Miles’ Cafe
Corp., 11-5816, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Patents  Spain  to Cut Price of Older Drugs Without Generic Equivalents  Spain’s Cabinet agreed to cut by 15 percent the prices of
drugs 10 years old and older for which there is no generic
version available, the Health Ministry said in an Aug. 19
statement. The government will exclude from this measure drugs
that are protected by patent in all the states of the European
Union, the ministry said.  Spire Gets U.S. Patent on Light-Powered Cancer Cell Zapper  Spire Corp. (SPIR) , a maker of solar energy equipment, received a
patent on a nano-sized device that can be used to limit the
growth of cancer cells.  Patent 7,955,965 covers a device and the method of making
the device that is light-powered and can use an electric charge
to target specific cells and either kill them or interfere with
their growth.  Roger Little , Spire’s founder and chief executive officer,
is one of three inventors named on the patent. According to the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, he’s a named
inventor on  more than 30 issued U.S. patents .  Spire applied for this patent in August 2010 with the
assistance of  Thomas J. Engellenner  and  Reza Mollaaghababa  of
 Boston ’s Nutter McClennen & Fish LLP. The patent was issued to
the Bedford, Massachusetts-based company in June.  Kimberly-Clark Accused of Infringing Sanitary Pad Design Patent  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) , the maker of Huggies diapers and Viva
paper towels, was sued for infringing an inventor’s design for a
sanitary pad.  Tonya M. Parker of Olympia Field,  Illinois , said the
Dallas-based company’s  Poise Hourglass Shape Pads  for
incontinence, introduced this year, infringe her design patent
D589,611.  The patent was issued in March 2009, according to the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Parker claims
that several times in 2009 and 2010 she wrote to Kimberly-Clark
inquiring about the company’s taking a license to her patent.  According to the complaint filed Aug. 18 in federal court
in  Chicago , Kimberly-Clark responded to each of her queries by
saying the company had made copies of her material and “our
staff concluded that it is not in keeping with our business
plan.”  Kimberly-Clark didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment on the suit.  Parker is seeking money damages equal to Kimberly-Clark’s
profit from its sale of the allegedly infringing item, and extra
damages to punish the company for what she says is deliberate
infringement.  Parker, who is also seeking litigation costs and attorney
fees, is represented by Lee F. Grossman and Mark M. Grossman of
the Grossman Law offices of Chicago.  The case is Parker v. Kimberly-Clark Corp., 1:11-cv-05658,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Levi’s Photographer Didn’t Infringe Artist’s Work, Court Says  Levi Strauss & Co., the San Francisco-based maker of blue
jeans, is off the hook in a copyright-infringement case filed by
an art photographer.  Janine Gordon , whose work has appeared in the Whitney
Museum and the San Francisco Museum of  Modern Art , sued  Ryan
McGinley  in federal court in Manhattan in February. She claimed
his infringement was “surreptitious” and that he gained access
to her work by attending her exhibitions.  In the process, Gordon said, he created images that were
“both blatantly and subtly derivative” of her work. Levi
Strauss was sued for using the allegedly infringing photos in
advertising campaigns for sportswear.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  in Manhattan dismissed
the case. In an opinion filed Aug. 18, he said he might have
hoped Gordon or her attorneys were “presumably familiar with
the basic tenets of copyright and  intellectual property  law,
would have recognized the futility of this action before
embarking on a long, costly and ultimately wasteful course of
litigation in a court of law.”  He called Gordon’s reliance on a “battery of art experts”
misplaced and said their testimony bore “no relevance to the
issue of substantial similarity in this case.” Several of the
experts disavowed “any familiarity with copyright law,” the
judge said.  The judge, who said he inspected “a representative
sample” of the pictures, included in his opinion copies of
several of both Gordon’s and McGinley’s photos.  Gordon claimed one photo of a stunt biker with a motorcycle
was infringed by McGinley’s photo of two nude models on roller
skates. Sullivan said no reasonable jury could find that the two
works were substantially similar.  The case is Gordon v. McGinley, 11-cv-010001, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 