-- 
Philippine Maid Seeks Hong Kong Court Ruling for Equal Right to Residence

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-08-22T10:04:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/philippine-maid-seeks-hong-kong-court-ruling-for-equal-right-to-residence.html
Hong Kong ’s policy of denying
permanent-residence rights to foreign maids is being challenged
as unconstitutional, stoking public debate over ethnic
discrimination in the Chinese city.  Evangeline Banao Vallejos, a domestic helper from the
 Philippines  who has lived in Hong Kong since 1986, asked the
Court of First Instance today to rule that an immigration law,
which deems imported domestic helpers ineligible for rights such
as voting and setting up a business, contradicts Hong Kong’s
constitution, the Basic Law.  A victory for Vallejos would open the door for Hong Kong’s
300,000 foreign maids to apply for permanent residency after
seven years working in the city, something at least three
political parties in Hong Kong have said  would strain  health
care, education and public housing resources. Hong Kong’s
population is 95 percent ethnic Chinese, according to the most
recent  census data  from 2006.  “The issue is not whether to give them permanent
residence, the issue is whether they should be denied the right
that is given to other non-Chinese nationals,” Vallejos’ lawyer
Gladys Li told Judge Johnson Lam today.  A tribunal last year dismissed Vallejos’ appeal against a
government decision denying her permanent-resident status and
said the constitution allows for laws that exclude maids and
other classes of workers from its provisions, according to her
court filing.  “This category of persons are subject to legally binding
restrictions that are out of the ordinary,” David Pannick, a
lawyer representing the government, told the court today.  Economic Contribution  Imported domestic helpers in Hong Kong  are required  to live
with their employers and aren’t allowed to accept other jobs. In
2004, the maids contributed HK$13.8 billion ($1.8 billion) to
the local economy, or one percent of Hong Kong’s total economic
output that year, according to a report by the Asian Migrant
Centre, a non-governmental organization.  “They released a lot of the local female  labor force  into
the market and enabled them to take jobs,” Liu Pak Wai, an
economics professor at The  Chinese University of Hong Kong , said
in a telephone interview.  Hong Kong  began allowing  locals to hire domestic help from
abroad in the 1970s. The population of imported help grew from
881 in 1974 to 70,335 in 1990, the government said in court
filings. Liu said the foreign workers now comprise some 300,000
of the city’s 7.1 million residents, their numbers buoyed by
strong demand from middle-class Hong Kong families.  Manila Bus Hijack  Ethnic tensions between the local population and the
foreign help flared a year ago after eight Hong Kong hostages
were killed in the hijacking of a tourist bus in  Manila .  The Philippine government appealed to the Hong Kong people
to refrain from taking out their anger against Filipinos in the
city, while tens of thousands of Hong Kong residents
participated in a march to demand a thorough investigation in
the Southeast Asian country.  In 2003, over 10,000 foreign maids marched against the Hong
Kong government’s decision to cut their minimum wage while
levying a tax on their employers. Then-Philippine president
 Gloria Arroyo  imposed a temporary freeze on approvals for
Filipinos to work in Hong Kong in protest.  Beijing Interpretation Call  Social commentators and academics have criticized comments
by the  Liberal Party  and New People’s Party leader Regina Ip,
who called on the government to consider seeking an
interpretation of the Basic Law by  China ’s Standing Committee of
the National People’s Congress.  Fernando Cheung, a lecturer at Hong Kong Polytechnic
University, wrote in the  South China Morning Post  on Aug. 18
that the Hong Kong people should remember the discrimination
suffered by the Chinese population in the U.S. under the  Chinese
Exclusion Act of 1882 . The law, which stood for 61 years,
restricted immigration and prohibited Chinese from becoming U.S.
citizens.  Secretary for Justice Wong Yan Lung, in an Aug. 17  press
statement , urged the public to avoid as far as possible making
comments which might prejudice the court’s decision.  People should “show the greatest respect to our Court and
our legal system, and to avoid as far as possible making any
comments which might prejudice or affect the Court’s
adjudication of the case,” he said in the statement.  The special administrative region was guaranteed an
independent judiciary for 50 years under the “one country, two
systems” framework following the handover from British to
Chinese rule in 1997.  The case is Vallejos Evangeline Banao, also known as
Vallejos Evangeline B. and Commissioner of Registration,
HCAL124/2010 in Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  