-- 
Proof That States Can Save Money Without Attacking Unions: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-22T00:00:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/proof-that-states-can-save-money-without-attacking-unions-view.html
There is little question that
generous pay and pensions for public employees contributed
mightily to the economic straits that many states find
themselves in.  State and local governments pay workers $40.10 an hour in
wages and benefits versus $27.88 for private-sector employees,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. (Studies that
control for factors such as education and experience have  found 
much smaller disparities.) But recent weeks have offered solid
proof that limiting collective-bargaining rights for those
workers’ unions is not the right approach to bringing the
situation under control.  On Thursday,  Connecticut ’s state employees approved a
contract producing $21.5 billion in cuts over 20 years, a deal
that the union had reached with Governor Dannel P. Malloy but
had been rejected by members in June. State balance sheets will
benefit from a two-year wage freeze for workers, who will also
have to be older to retire, wait 10 years instead of five to get
retiree health benefits, and make contributions to a health-care
trust for a decade. In return, employees received a four-year
no-layoff guarantee and a promise they would not be forced to
take unpaid furloughs.  Although a change in the union voting  process , which was
encouraged by labor leaders who favored the deal, surely had
some effect on the different result this time around, there is
little question that the agreement reached Monday between  New
York  and its largest public-worker union was a dose of reality
that jolted state employees in Connecticut and across the
nation.  The New York pact, with the  Civil Service Employees
Association , is expected to save a modest $73 million this year,
but Governor  Andrew Cuomo  projects that reaching similar deals
with the state’s other unions would reap $1.6 billion over five
years.  On the part of organized labor, the deals showed a welcome
recognition of the depth of voter concern over budgets and,
perhaps, a new appreciation that it is going to take shared
sacrifice to get the U.S. out of this economic mess.  The political lesson here is that a tough stand by elected
officials can achieve real gains at the bargaining table without
having to limit the collective-bargaining rights of unions, as
Governor  Scott Walker  of  Wisconsin  has done and a law passed by
 Ohio  legislators would do. To his credit, Ohio Governor  John Kasich  has sought compromise with unions in advance of a
referendum in November to repeal Ohio’s law, which has yet to
take effect. Union leaders there would do well to take up his
invitation.  There are competing theories as to who “won” the
Wisconsin battle over collective bargaining that this month cost
two Republican legislators their jobs through a recall election.
But there is no doubt as to the costs: political acrimony,
frayed social fabric and the triumph of forced sacrifice. New
York and Connecticut have shown that skillful political
leadership can achieve real savings while preserving comity,
reinforcing the need for all Americans to voluntarily give up
something to ensure a prosperous future.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 