-- 
Putin, Medvedev May Announce 2012 Plans in December

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-08-22T07:10:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/putin-medvedev-said-to-make-2012-announcement-in-december.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  and President Dmitry Medvedev will probably wait until
December to reveal which of them will run for president in 2012,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  The announcement may come in early December, shortly before
the date of the March vote is officially set, said one person.
There’s no need for Putin to declare his intentions before the
end of the year, said another person informed about the matter.
Both people declined to be identified because the information
isn’t public.  Medvedev was handpicked by Putin as a successor four years
ago because a constitutional ban on more than two consecutive
terms forced him to leave the presidency. The president’s
chances of re-election will dwindle if he doesn’t announce he’s
running for another term soon,  Igor Yurgens , a Medvedev adviser,
said in an Aug. 16 interview. Putin formed a coalition, the All-
Russia People’s Front, in May to rally support for his ruling
United Russia party.  “I believe  Dmitry Medvedev  should say in September that I
am going for re-election, full stop, that’s it,” Yurgens, who
heads a research institute set up by the president, said in a
telephone interview from Moscow. “Delaying it until December
would be in the interests of the People’s Front, the other side,
but not the president’s side.”  Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , declined to comment, as
did the Kremlin press service.  The premier, who has remained at the center of power since
relinquishing the presidency, leads Medvedev in opinion polls.
He could serve as president until 2024 under new six-year terms,
giving him a quarter of a century in power.  Stock Market Expectations  Putin’s return to the presidency is the outcome priced into
 Russia ’s equity market, Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian
shares at CF Global Trading in  London , said by e-mail on Aug.
18. Stocks would surge 10 percent if Medvedev, who’s trying to
combat Russia’s reputation as the world’s most corrupt major
economy and attract foreign investment, continues as president,
Rimmer said.  The 30-stock Micex Index is down 15 percent this year, in
line with the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. Micex has lost 16
percent in the past month, compared to an 11 percent-decline for
 Brazil ’s Bovespa Index. Russia’s dollar-denominated RTS index is
the fifth worst-performing in the world this month out of 92
indexes surveyed by Bloomberg.  Neither Medvedev nor Putin has ruled out running for
president next March. Medvedev, a 45-year-old former corporate
lawyer from Putin’s hometown of  St. Petersburg , has pledged to
loosen political controls if he wins a second term.  Fighting Graft  Medvedev has made fighting graft, improving the rule of law
and cutting the state’s role in the economy cornerstones of his
presidency. The two men have clashed over foreign policy this
year, and Medvedev supporters are urging him to run regardless
of Putin’s wishes.  The leaders said they plan to decide together who will run
for the office. The election, scheduled for March 4 according to
the Central Electoral Commission, must be called at least 90
days before voting day. Medvedev has said a decision will be
made soon, while Putin said making it public too early would
derail the system of government, which since 2008 has been based
on a formal dual leadership.  In 2007, then-President Putin, a 58-year-old former KGB
colonel, waited until Dec. 10 to throw support behind his
longtime associate. Medvedev won the 2008 ballot with more than
70 percent of the vote before offering Putin the job of prime
minister.  Postponing the news of the candidacy until after the Dec. 4
parliamentary elections would ensure that Putin’s popularity is
at its peak after a campaign by  United Russia , Dmitry Orlov, an
analyst at the Agency for Political and Economic Communications
that advises the government, said by phone Aug. 19.  ‘Fight for Support’  Medvedev can’t seek a new term without his mentor’s
approval because he needs official support to gain re-election,
said Dmitry Oreskhin, an independent political analyst based in
Moscow.  “To become president for a second time, he has to fight
for the support of the electorate, and in Russia there is only
one voter that counts, and his name is Putin,” he said.  Putin’s approval rating increased to 52 percent from 50
percent in mid-August, according to a  poll  published Aug. 18 by
the Public Opinion Foundation, also known by its Russian acronym
 FOM . Medvedev’s popularity was unchanged at 46 percent. The
survey was based on interviews with 3,000 people Aug. 13-14. No
margin of error was given.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  