-- 
Qaddafi’s Fall to Test Mettle of Libyan Rebels United by War

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-23T14:39:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/qaddafi-s-fall-to-test-mettle-of-libya-rebels-united-by-hatred-of-dictator.html
Defeating  Muammar Qaddafi  may turn
out to be the easy part for  Libya ’s rebels. Managing the
aftermath will test the loose alliance of former exiles, Arab
nationalists, Islamists and regime defectors who united to boot
out the dictator.  As celebrations in Tripoli’s Green Square hailed the
opposition fighters, governing after Qaddafi’s 42-year rule
“will not be a bed of roses,” Mustafa Abdel Jalil, the head of
the rebels’ National Transitional Council, said in a press
conference yesterday in Benghazi, Libya.  Trying to prevent post-Qaddafi Libya from descending into
chaos, the rebels have outlined a “road map” for the
transition. They promise presidential elections within a year,
in a country devoid of political parties or even a constitution.  “I would expect a period of confusion and near anarchy as
a new Libya without Qaddafi tries to find a way for its various
tribal groups to cooperate,” said George Lane, a former U.S.
ambassador to Yemen who previously headed the U.S. embassy’s
office in Benghazi and met Qaddafi during the 1969 coup.  Post-Qaddafi instability may also “lead to the emergence
of new authoritarian leaders or the breakup of the country,”
said a  report  this month from the  Council on Foreign Relations .
Such an outcome would “discredit the NATO-led intervention and
threaten vital European interests, including oil and gas,” said
the New York-based research group.  Saif Unexplained  The rebel council has never explained the July 28
assassination of Abdel Fattah Younis, the rebel military chief
and a regime defector, who died after he was taken into custody
for questioning by his own side. Nor has it explained the
reappearance in Tripoli of Saif al-Islam, Qaddafi’s son and heir
apparent, who the rebels claimed to have captured on Aug 21.  The appearance of Qaddafi’s son is a blow to the NTC’s
credibility,  Philip J. Crowley , former U.S. State Department
spokesman, said in a message on Twitter. It has to demonstrate
it can lead the transition, he said.  “There are all kinds of reasons to be cautious about what
comes next,” said Dirk Vandewalle, a Libya expert and professor
at  Dartmouth College , in a telephone interview.  “It is a very difficult task, as Qaddafi systemically
destroyed political and civil institutions over the years,”
said Oliver Miles, a former U.K. ambassador to Libya. “Everyone
says they are inexperienced, but they’ve managed Benghazi and
the areas they’ve conquered quite well.”  Cash-Strapped  For now, the rebels also are strapped for cash. They face
legal obstacles to tapping almost $165 billion of frozen assets
worldwide while production from war-damaged oil fields and
refineries may not resume for months.  Libya once produced as much as 1.8 million barrels of oil a
day and aspired to boost output to 3 million barrels a day. It
now produces as little as 100,000 barrels a day.  The new government may be able to achieve only a partial
resumption of oil production by the fourth quarter of 2011,
probably no more than 400,000 barrels a day, said  Cliff Kupchan ,
an analyst at New York-based research firm Eurasia Group.  After a five-month air campaign, North Atlantic Treaty
Organization allies may be in too big a hurry to pass the reins
to the  United Nations , said Karim Mezran, a Libyan exile and
professor at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced
International Studies in Bologna,  Italy , in a telephone
interview.  “It’s absolutely critical at this stage that the
international community doesn’t suddenly drop the ball,” he
said. “They have to oversee the process or things will turn bad
very soon and very quickly.”  Frozen Assets  The gradual release of about $30 billion in frozen Libyan
assets in the U.S. may provide “leverage to ensure the Obama
administration gets the kind of government we’d like to see in
Libya,”  Stuart Levey , a former undersecretary of the Treasury
for terrorism and financial intelligence, told Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.”  Another issue is who will replace Qaddafi. While the NTC
members have signed a declaration that none of them will stand
for office in the first election, that could change, and other
contenders could surface.  “The first split among the rebels will be among those that
stayed and those that were exiled,” said Alessandro Politi, a
former adviser to the Italian Defense Ministry, in a telephone
interview. “People who have been waiting in the shadows until
Qaddafi was safely out of the picture will start to emerge.”  Potential Leaders  “My role will continue on after the end of Qaddafi, unless
I lose control of the goals and aspirations I have,” Jalil, who
served as a justice minister under Qaddafi, said yesterday.  Ali Tarhouni, who fled Libya in the early 1970s and was
sentenced to death in absentia, left the University of
 Washington  and returned home to act as opposition finance
minister. He even attempted to break into the vault of the
central bank’s branch in Benghazi to raise cash.  From the non-rebel camp, Qaddafi’s former right-hand man,
Abdel Salam Jalloud, may also emerge as a potential leader.  Friends with Qaddafi from childhood, Jalloud was the second
most powerful man in Libya after the 1969 revolution and served
as prime minister in the mid-1970s. Suspected of taking part in
a failed 1993 coup, Jalloud fell out of favor with Qaddafi and
spent the last two decades in exile.  ‘Viable Option’  “His fall out with Qaddafi all those years ago means he’s
not tinged by association,” said Mezran. “He’s definitely
positioning himself as a viable option.”  Surprises may emerge, as they did in  Iraq , where Nouri al-
Maliki was virtually unknown before he became prime minister in
2006.  Maurizio Massari, a senior adviser to Italian Foreign
Minister  Franco Frattini , said NATO allies are “cautiously
optimistic” that post-Qaddafi Libya won’t turn into Iraq, which
descended into factional warfare after  Saddam Hussein ’s ouster.  “For one, there is no  Iran  in the equation as the great
meddler,” Massari said in a telephone interview. Yet, “we have
to stay vigilant, and have to be on the look for extremist
factions, which while grossly exaggerated by Qaddafi, do
exist.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  