-- 
Qantas Aims to Surpass Singapore Air A380s in Comfort With Luxury Cabins

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   D a n   P e t r i e
-- 
2011-08-23T07:59:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/qantas-asia-cabins-to-surpass-a380s-in-singapore-air-challenge.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  said its planned
Asian carrier will have cabins more luxurious than those on the
group’s flagship Airbus SAS A380s as it tries to lure fliers
from  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)   “This will be a top premium product,” Qantas Chief
Executive Officer Alan Joyce said in a Bloomberg TV interview on
Aug. 19. The business-class and economy-class cabins will both
be “better than the A380s,” he said.  The new carrier, which may be based in Singapore or
Malaysia, will have a “private-jet feel,” Joyce said, as
Australia’s biggest airline focuses on  Asia  to help end losses
at its international unit. The planned airline will need better
services than Qantas’ existing operations to challenge Singapore
Air, Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. and Korean Air Lines Co., said
Neil Hansford, chairman of Strategic Aviation Solutions.  “Asian carriers have been beating Qantas with a better
product,” Hansford said. Furthermore, the existing airlines
“are not going to sit back and wait for Qantas to take their
business,” he said.  The new Qantas carrier, which will operate under a new
brand, will begin services with 11 single-aisle A320s. That will
enable it to fly to  Australia , India and  China , Joyce said.  ‘Own Hub’  “We think there is an opportunity for us to create our own
hub,” Joyce said. “We will have a lot of traffic and a
complementary network in and out of Australia.”  Qantas rose 8.5 percent to A$1.54 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
Sydney trading, the biggest gain since Dec. 2008. The stock has
declined 39 percent this year. The carrier is the third-worst
performer among the 17 stocks in the Bloomberg Asia-Pacific
Airlines Index this year.  The carrier is seeking other shareholders for the venture
and is talking to both financial investors and other airlines,
Joyce said, without elaboration. An announcement about where the
airline will be based is “a little bit away,” he said.  Qantas also last week announced plans to cut Europe flights
and to form a budget carrier in  Japan . The airline suffered
annual losses of as much as A$200 million ($208 million) at its
international operations as Middle East airlines including
Dubai-based Emirates Airline and Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways
added Australia flights.  Singapore Option  Singapore is an attractive option for the new carrier
because Qantas is already the second-biggest airline in the
city-state, Joyce said. Qantas’s budget unit Jetstar has a base
there, and the carrier flies long-haul services to Frankfurt and
 London  via the city-state using its A380s.  Singapore Air has “faced competition since day one on
every route we operate and we compete by constantly trying to
improve our services,”  Nicholas Ionides , a spokesman for the
carrier, said by phone today.  Business class on Qantas’s superjumbos boasts 2-meter (6-
foot, 6-inch) long lie-flat beds, 1,000 options on the inflight
entertainment system and an onboard lounge, according to the
carrier’s  website . Joyce didn’t elaborate on what features the
new airline may have.  Qantas  has a four-star rating from
airline-reviewer Skytrax, trailing Singapore Air’s five stars.  Kuala Lumpur  offers Qantas the opportunity to cooperate
with  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  and  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , Joyce said.
The two Malaysian carriers recently became affiliates after
their main investors agreed to a share swap. Jetstar also
cooperates with AirAsia.  “The combination of Qantas, Malaysian, AirAsia and Jetstar
makes KL an attractive alternative,” Joyce said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Robert Fenner in
Melbourne at   rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Petrie in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  