-- 
Rand Declines, Four-Year Bonds Extend Record Rally on Rate-Cut Speculation

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-22T16:32:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/rand-declines-four-year-bonds-extend-record-rally-on-rate-cut-speculation.html
South African bonds extended a six-
day rally, driving the yield on four-year notes to a record low,
as traders increased bets the central bank will take steps to
bolster the economy and investors speculated the U.S. Federal
Reserve will signal more stimulus measures.  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 jumped as much as 54 cents
to 124.76 rand, sending the yield down 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 6.45 percent, the lowest on record, before
paring gains to yield 6.56 percent at 5:13 p.m. in Johannesburg.
The yield has declined 44 basis points in the past six days. The
rand retreated 0.4 percent to 7.2183 per dollar.  Record-low yields on U.S. Treasuries show traders expect
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to signal as soon as
this week that the central bank will begin a third round of
asset purchases to boost the economy. Forward-rate agreements
show investors are betting South Africa’s Reserve Bank may cut
 interest rates  to bolster the local economy after brokerages
including Societe Generale SA said the risk of a rate cut is
increasing.  “Any strong signal coming from the Fed would also confirm
that the world is indeed in pretty bad shape,”  Benoit Anne ,
head of emerging-markets strategy at SocGen in  London , said by
e-mail. “Monetary policy expectations down the road will have
to be re-priced quite dramatically. With the growing concerns
about global growth, most major commodity-driven economies are
going to be hit hard, and I can’t see how  South Africa  will be
spared.”  Rate-Cut Bets  Three-month forward-rate agreements starting in May next
year dropped as much as 10.5 basis points, or 0.105 percentage
point, to 5.29 percent today, the lowest in at least 10 years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate was 5.40
percent at 4:15 p.m., compared with the one-year Johannesburg
Interbank Agreed Rate at 5.96 percent. Forward-rate agreements
are pricing in as much as a 50 percent chance of a rate cut in
the first half of 2012, Tradition Analytics researchers led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note.  Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa may report on Aug.
24 that the  consumer price index  rose 5.2 percent in the year
through July, from 5 percent the previous month, according to
the median estimates of 18 economists polled by Bloomberg. The
central bank’s mandate is to keep inflation within a 3 to 6
percent target range, though it also takes into account the
effect of monetary policy on economic growth.  “The local market continues to price in the possibility of
rate cuts,” Tradition Analytics strategists led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in a research note.
“Growth risks abroad are more than outweighing price inflation
at this stage.”  More Bond Gains  The  Reserve Bank  will “actively monitor” global
developments and was ready to take action to ensure stability
and liquidity in financial markets, Central bank Governor Gill Marcus said in a statement with Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan 
after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit rating on Aug. 8.  “The market is starting to look at the prospect of a rate
cut locally,” Rand Merchant Bank analysts led by Theuns de Wet
said in a research note. “It looks as if the current bond
strength environment is set to continue.”  South Africa’s economy expanded an annualized 4.8 percent
in the first quarter, the fastest pace in a year, from 4.5
percent in the final three months of last year, the government
statistics agency said on May 31.  Since then most economic data has pointed to a slowdown,
with the joblessness rate rising to 25.7 percent in the second
quarter, from 25 percent in the previous three months, and
manufacturing growth slowing to 0.9 percent in June, from a
revised 1 percent the month before. Retail sales rose 2.2
percent in June, below the average sales growth in the first
quarter.  Foreign investors bought a net 8 billion rand ($1.1
billion) of South African bonds last week even as they sold a
net 3.2 billion rand of equities, according to data from JSE
Ltd., which manages the stock and bond exchanges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  