-- 
RBC Capital’s Peso Trade Collapses as Volatility Surges: Mexico Credit

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 
2011-08-22T12:54:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/rbc-s-peso-trade-collapses-as-volatility-surges-mexico-credit.html
Mexican peso  bulls including RBC
Capital and Nomura Securities Inc. are abandoning their trade
recommendations as concern the U.S. may relapse into recession
mounts and currency swings soar to a two-year high.  RBC “stopped out” its call for clients to buy the peso
versus the dollar according to a research note on Aug. 18, one
day after it recommended the trade. Investors who followed the
advice lost 1.5 percent. Nomura exited a recommendation
investors buy the peso versus  Colombia ’s currency, according to
a research note on Aug. 8, after the trade netted a loss of 2
percent in six days. The bank said it’s likely to lower its
year-end forecast for the Mexican peso.  The peso is the worst performer among the 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, having tumbled 5.2 percent in
the month through Aug. 19 on concern slowing U.S. growth will
crimp demand for the Latin American country’s exports. While
yields on Mexican bonds are tumbling in line with  U.S.
Treasuries , the peso’s slump is eroding dollar-based returns on
the securities.  “We’re back to extreme financial market turbulence,”  Paul Biszko , an emerging-markets strategist at RBC, said in a
telephone interview in Toronto. “I thought there was going to
be a period of external stability. To try to call when that’s
going to end is very difficult.”  The peso’s drop handed investors in Mexican local bonds a
loss of 0.09 percent this month in dollar terms even as yields
on benchmark bonds due in 2024 tumbled 75 basis points to a
record low of 6.04 percent, according to data compiled by Bank
of America Merrill Lynch. Brazilian bonds denominated in reais
gained 1.6 percent in dollar terms during the same period.  ‘Dangerously Close’  The average currency fluctuation over the past two weeks
reached 29.4 percent on Aug. 18, the highest level since April
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso has erased almost all this year’s gain and reached
an 11-month low of 12.7686 on Aug. 9 as slowing global growth
sparked a sell-off in world equity markets. The U.S., the
destination for 80 percent of  Mexico ’s exports, and  Europe  are
“dangerously close to recession,” Morgan Stanley economists
said last week. Mexico’s central bank lowered its 2011 growth
forecast on Aug. 10. Policy makers are now forecasting an
expansion of up to 4.8 percent from a previous estimate of as
much as 5 percent.  The market rout “caught everybody by surprise,”  Benito Berber , a strategist at Nomura in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “A 10-15 percent drop in equity markets in a couple
of days is beyond any analyst’s ability to predict. When I put
on the trade recommendation, I didn’t expect the market to
depreciate that much. We thought the peso could rally a bit or
at least be stable.”  ‘Favorable’  While Berber has a “favorable” view on the peso, he said
he plans to pare back his forecast that the currency will
strengthen to 11.5 per dollar by year-end.  The median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is
for the peso to rebound to 11.7 per dollar by the end of
December, down from 11.62 on Aug. 10. BMO Capital Markets, the
investment arm of  Canada ’s fourth-largest lender, has the most
bearish forecast, estimating the peso will weaken to 12.6 per
dollar, compared with a prediction of 11.6 in July.  Morgan Stanley and BNP Paribas SA are among the bulls still
advising their clients to bet on a peso rally. Rogerio Oliveira,
an emerging-markets strategist at Morgan Stanley, recommended on
Aug. 17 that investors buy the peso against the dollar through
options, betting on a 1.1 percent gain.  “The world has been downgraded in terms of growth
expectations, but the world is not falling apart,” Oliveira
said in a telephone interview in New York. “The peso has taken
a disproportional amount of the global shock compared with the
other currencies. The peso is bound to catch up.”  Rate Futures  Diego Donadio , a strategist at BNP, on Aug. 9 advised
clients to buy the peso versus the Brazilian real, predicting a
rise to 7.35 pesos per real from 7.67. The trade has since lost
about 0.2 percent.  The peso rose 0.6 percent to 12.2272 per dollar at 8:05
a.m. New York time.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points
to 179, according to JPMorgan’s Global EMBI+ index for the
country.  The yield on futures contracts for September, known as
TIIE, fell 12 basis points last week to 4.71 percent, indicating
traders expect the central bank to lower the rate next month
from a record low 4.5 percent.  ‘Overshot’  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell six basis points last week to 144, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  RBC, the investment unit of Canada’s largest bank,
recommended clients buy the peso on Aug. 17, when it traded at
12.17 per dollar, according to the bank’s research note.
Analysts including Biszko said the 5 percent selloff this month
had “overshot” and the peso will “outperform” over coming
weeks when global financial markets stabilize.  The following day, the peso lost as much as 2.2 percent
after a report showed manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
contracted in August by the most in two years. The peso weakened
beyond the 12.35 level RBC set as a “stop-loss,” or a pre-set
buying order to limit losses.  “We thought the worst may have gone behind us,” Biszko
said. “We thought the Mexican peso has been beaten up already,
but the viciousness of the swings happens so frequently that
it’s extremely unpredictable.”  Bullish Bets  RBC maintains its forecast that the peso will rise to 11.5
per dollar by year-end as global markets “stabilize,” Biszko
said. That would represent a 6.9 percent rise from the close on
Aug. 19.  Hedge funds  and other investors have cut their bullish bets
on the Mexican peso to the lowest level since September 2010,
according to data compiled by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. Wagers on the peso strengthening against the dollar
outnumbered bets on a decline in the futures market by 22,634
contracts as of Aug. 16, compared with 41,293 the prior week,
according to the CFTC. The bets have declined 83 percent since a
record set in April.  Kieran Curtis, who helps manage $3.5 billion at Aviva
Investors in  London , said he’s not ready to buy the peso after
unwinding his bearish trade when the currency reached 12.5 per
dollar this month.  “We are a bit more cautious on the general risk
environment,” Curtis said in a telephone interview. “If you
have a risk-off environment, it tends to fall more than
others.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  