-- 
Treasuries Fall on Speculation Fed’s Bernanke to Will Signal More Stimulus

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-08-22T21:09:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/treasuries-fall-on-concern-drop-in-yield-to-crimp-demand-at-bond-auctions.html
Treasuries fell amid speculation
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will signal additional
measures to stimulate the economy, damping demand for the safest
assets.  Treasury two-year note yields touched the highest in two
weeks amid concern yields that dropped to record lows this month
will erode demand when the U.S. sells $99 billion of debt this
week. Bernanke is scheduled to speak Aug. 26 in Jackson Hole,
 Wyoming  at an annual conference sponsored by the Fed Bank of
 Kansas City . Stocks pared earlier gains.  “The market is floundering lower around Treasury supply
and Bernanke coming,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at Societe
Generale SA in New York, one of the 20 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “The jury is still out on if we are going
to get more from Bernanke or not, so the market is in a wait-
and-see mode.”  Ten-year yields rose four basis points to 2.11 percent at
5:02 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 2.125 percent note due August 2021 fell 12/32, or
$3.75 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 5/32. The record low yield
of 1.97 percent was set Aug. 18.  Two-year note yields rose one basis point to 0.20 percent,
touching the most since Aug. 8. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
closed little changed after gaining as much as 2 percent.  Debt Returns  Treasury bills swung to negative rates, with one-month and
three-month bills at -0.005 percent, compared with 0 percent on
Aug. 19. Three-month bill rates touched 0.09 percent on July 29.  Treasuries have returned 7.7 percent this year compared
with 5.9 percent for all of 2010, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  The U.S. government plans to auction $35 billion of two-
year notes tomorrow, the same amount of five-year debt on Aug.
24 and $29 billion of seven-year securities on Aug. 25.  The decline in yields is curbing demand,  Ward McCarthy , the
chief financial economist at Jefferies, and Thomas Simons, a
money market economist at the company, wrote in a report dated
Aug. 19.  “There was good selling from real money accounts when the
10-year rate briefly slipped below 2” percent last week, the
two New York-based economists wrote. “The Treasury market is
vulnerable to a correction.”  Rates on U.S. Treasuries show traders are betting Bernanke
will indicate as soon as this week that the Fed will begin a
third round of so-called quantitative easing to boost the
economy, a scenario the world’s biggest bond dealers said is
unlikely.  Fed Watch  Barclays Plc said 10-year yields indicate traders have
priced in $500 billion to $600 billion of Treasury purchases by
the Fed. Citigroup Inc. said current rates can only be justified
by more central bank-bond buying or assuming the economy will
shrink by 2 percent.  “The market is pricing in another round of large-scale
asset purchases, looking for confirmation possibly as early as
the  Jackson Hole  symposium” in Wyoming this week, Anshul Pradhan, a fixed-income research analyst at Barclays in New
York, said in an interview last week. “The probability of that
is low. If the chairman does disappoint, then there should be a
reversal in the outperformance of 10-year notes.”  Central bankers from around the world will meet in Jackson
Hole at an annual conference sponsored by the Fed Bank of Kansas
City. Bernanke triggered financial rallies a year ago when he
said at the same gathering that the Fed was prepared to “do all
that it can” to ensure economic recovery and suggested it would
purchase more securities if growth slowed.  ‘Operation Twist’  The Fed may sell shorter-term maturity securities held in
its portfolio and buy longer-duration bonds, known as operation
twist, to help stimulate the economy, Ira Jersey, an interest-
rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG, said
today in an interview on “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .
Credit Suisse says the U.S. has about a 30 percent chance of
tipping into recession.  “We suspect that the economic data is going to continue to
be weak,” Jersey said. “We’re going to have a persistently
weak economy for a while and we think in that environment the
Fed will be buying the 10 year and doing the so-called operation
twist.”  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was 2.04
percentage points. The spread narrowed to 1.96 percentage points
on Aug. 18, the least since October. The five-year average is
1.69 percentage points.  Economic Data  “The financial markets are whipping themselves up for a
fear of a double-dip” recession, said Roger Bridges, who
oversees the equivalent of $15.6 billion of debt as the Sydney-
based head of bonds at Tyndall Investment Management Ltd., a
unit of  Japan ’s Nikko Asset Management Co. “Treasuries are very
expensive. So long as this fear keeps on going, they will
continue” to be so.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its forecast for U.S.
economic growth in 2011 on signs the recovery in the world’s
largest economy lost momentum.  The  U.S. economy  will expand 1.5 percent this year, down
from a previous forecast of 1.7 percent, Goldman economists in
New York including Jan Hatzius said in a note published on Aug.
19. Credit Suisse and Citigroup were among banks lowering growth
forecasts this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  