-- 
Red Hot Chilis Blast Back With Guitar Orgies, Ugly Fly: Review

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-08-22T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/red-hot-chilis-blast-back-with-no-fat-guitar-orgies-repulsive-fly-review.html
The Red Hot Chili Peppers are in the
running for the most repulsive album cover of all time.  “I’m With You,” which started streaming overnight, shows
a hairy housefly sitting on a drug tablet. The image, by  Damien Hirst , is about as inviting as the disgusting “Infest” by Papa
Roach.  Fortunately, the music is more appealing. With their 10th
studio album, the Californians can expect to add to their tally
of 65 million records sold.  The story so far: the Chilis start in 1983 with a sense of
stripped-down punk fun. They have a habit of appearing on stage
wearing not a lot, except strategically placed socks.  Acclaim and seriousness grow with “Californication” and
“By the Way,” ending in 2006’s bloated “Stadium Arcadium.”  The talented guitarist John Frusciante, whose solos add a
kick to the Peppers’ best work, quits in 2009 and is replaced by
Josh Klinghoffer. The quartet hails the latest release, produced
by Rick Rubin, as the work of a new unit.  Well, not quite. Much of the old trademark sound is still
there: tight bass lines by Flea, complex drum fills from Chad Smith, knowing vocals by Anthony Kiedis.  There’s a lot of variety, from the rocking “Monarchy of
Roses” to the mourning “Brendan’s Death Song” and the bouncy
single “The Adventures of Rain Dance Maggie.”  After a few plays, it all sounds underwhelming. Maybe these
tattooed wrinklies are mellowing as they hover near 50. There
are a few garage-band guitar orgies, though this is a tightly
edited set with scant fat.  At least the title was a prudent choice: Kiedis said the
recording almost was called “Dr. Johnny Skinz’s
Disproportionately Rambunctious Polar Express Machine-Head,”
based on a drug experience.  Keep taking the pills, guys, just not the one on the cover.  Rating: ***½.  The CD will be released on Aug. 29 on Warner Bros. Download
fees vary across services.  Information:  http://www.redhotchilipeppers.com .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 