-- 
Retail Profit Growth Lowest Since 2009 Portends Weak Second Half

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-08-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/retail-profit-growth-lowest-since-2009-portends-weak-second-half.html
Retailers’ slowest earnings growth
since the last recession has them bracing for a weakened second
half as the  U.S. economy  leaves consumers confronting the
prospect of losing their jobs and a volatile stock market.  Second-quarter earnings per share for 43 retailers in the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 Index gained an average of 11 percent, the
smallest increase in eight quarters, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Profits rallied 71 percent on average in last
year’s second quarter and declined 2.2 percent in the three
months through June 2009, when an 18-month recession ended.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  last week said its lower-income
consumers, concerned about losing their jobs with the U.S.
unemployment rate at 9.1 percent, are trading down to lower-
priced brands and smaller sizes of goods to stretch their
paychecks. Wealthier shoppers may retreat from luxury purchases
as the stock market falls, analysts said.  “There are a lot of clouds on the horizon,” Bernard Sosnick, an analyst at Gilford Securities in  New York , said in
an interview. “ Consumer confidence  is heavily influenced by
outside factors such as the stock market and political
uncertainty and all the things that made headlines.”  Confidence among consumers in August fell to the lowest
level since May 1980, according to a survey from Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan. U.S. stocks posted unprecedented
swings in the week of Aug. 8, and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  has dropped 14 percent in the past three months to close
at 10,817.25 on Aug. 19.  Double-Dip  U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual
rate from April through June following a 0.4 percent gain in the
prior quarter, the Commerce Department reported last month.  The stock-market decline and weaker confidence make a
double-dip recession more likely, said  Michael Souers , a retail
analyst at Standard & Poor’s in New York. He recommends stocks
that perform well in economic slumps such as  PetSmart Inc. (PETM)  and
 Advance Auto Parts Inc. (AAP) , the only company of the 30 he covers
that he ranks a “strong” buy.  “The economy will remain weak,” Souers said in an
interview.  Consumers are pushing back against price increases that
some stores are trying to pass through from vendors, said Ed Yruma, an analyst for Keybanc Capital Markets in New York.  Bon-Ton Stores Inc. (BONT)  said shoppers resisted an increase of 8
percent, or $1 to $2, on basic products such as children’s
clothing.  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) ’s net loss widened in the quarter
as it discounted merchandise to clear items from stores and
reduce inventories.  “It looks a lot less likely that retailers have the
ability to raise prices,” Yruma said.  Luxury Retail  Customers of department stores and luxury retailers, who
have reported some of the strongest gains this year, may be most
affected by the recent market turmoil, said  David Schick , an
analyst for Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.  “Higher-income consumers are flat-out less confident than
they were and less wealthy than they were,” Schick said.  There’s no indication that retailers are bracing for the
sort of meltdown that followed the collapse of  Lehman Brothers 
in 2008, when people didn’t show up for sales during the Labor
Day holiday weekend, Sosnick said.  Retail sales in the U.S. in July climbed 0.5 percent, the
most in fourth months, the Commerce Department reported Aug. 12.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , said second-
quarter net income climbed 5.7 percent and that profit in the
fiscal year ending in January will be $4.41 to $4.51 a share, up
from a previous projection of $4.35 to $4.50.  Target Earnings  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest U.S. discount retailer
after Wal-Mart, reported second-quarter profit that gained 3.7
percent to $704 million, or $1.03 a share, topping analysts’
average estimate of 97 cents.  While sales growth for Minneapolis-based Target slowed in
the first two weeks of August from June and July, the decline
matched the company’s expectations, Chief Financial Officer
Douglas Scovanner said on an Aug. 17 call with analysts.  “These are not the signs of a consumer that’s leading us
into some great catastrophe,” Greg Melich, an analyst at
International Strategy & Investment in New York, mentioning
positive results at leading retailers including  Home Depot Inc. (HD) 
“This is very different from ‘08,” when even higher-income
Americans feared losing their jobs and credit markets stalled.  Atlanta-based Home Depot, the largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, raised its full-year profit forecast after second-
quarter profit exceeded analysts’ estimates, spurred by
increased traffic.  Sosnick said that while he once thought a consumer freeze
similar to 2008 may happen, he’s less pessimistic after the
most-recent earnings reports.  “I don’t think we have that kind of shock right now,” he
said. “We have fear and disgust but not paralyzing shock.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  