-- 
Ringgit Gains on Speculation U.S. to Unveil Stimulus Measures

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-08-22T08:41:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/ringgit-gains-on-speculation-u-s-to-unveil-stimulus-measures.html
The ringgit advanced on speculation
the  Federal Reserve  will unveil measures this week to help
revive growth in the world’s largest economy, improving the
outlook for Malaysia’s exports.  The currency extended gains after rising 1.1 percent over
the last two weeks ahead of the Fed’s annual symposium at
Jackson Hole, Wyoming on Aug. 26. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  is “prepared to employ” additional tools to bolster
the economy, it said earlier this month, an indication that it
may be considering another round of bond-buying that expands the
supply of dollars, known as quantitative easing. Bonds were
steady.  “The market is looking to the Fed for some kind of
temporary fix and confidence booster,” said Calbert Loh, head
of treasury at Bangkok Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur  “The slowdown
in developed markets is beginning to affect  Asia .”  The ringgit gained 0.3 percent to 2.9730 per dollar as of
4:20 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It reached a 14-year high of 2.9335 on July 27.  The Fed pledged on Aug. 9 to keep its target rate for
overnight lending between banks at zero to 0.25 percent through
at least mid-2013, saying growth in the world’s biggest economy
was “considerably slower” than anticipated. The rate has
remained at that level since December 2008.  Industrial production in  Singapore  rose 7.5 percent in July
from a year earlier, following a 10.5 percent increase in June,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before a government report
on Aug. 26. The nation is  Malaysia ’s second-largest export
market, after  China .  “With financial markets placing much hope on the Fed for
deliverance, there is little room for error at Jackson Hole,”
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. said in a research note released today.
“Any disappointment will tip the markets to discount a
recession.”  The yield on the 3.434 percent note due August 2014 was
unchanged at 3.20 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia. The rate
has declined four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  