-- 
Rothschild to Take Over CLO Manager Elgin, Tripling Leveraged Buyout Loans

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-08-22T17:33:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/rothschild-to-take-over-clo-manager-elgin-tripling-leveraged-buyout-loans.html
Rothschild, the family-owned
financial adviser, agreed to take over Elgin Capital LLP in a
deal that will triple its European leveraged loans under
management to about 2 billion euros ($2.9 billion), according to
two people familiar with the situation.  Rothschild will take on most of the staff of London-based
Elgin, which runs four Dalradian collateralized loan
obligations, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the deal is private.  The expansion in  Europe  by Rothschild, the biggest for its
credit management business started in 2004, capitalizes on fund-
raising problems weaker rivals face. Appetite for CLO investment
has been crippled by proposed regulations that will increase
costs for equity investors in the funds, resulting in just one
new deal for an asset manager this year in Europe.  “We will see more consolidation in the European CLO market
going forward since many of the platforms don’t have enough
scale to be profitable,” said Alastair Sewell, an analyst at
 Fitch Ratings . “It will be difficult for them to remain in the
market unless their shareholders have a deep pocket.”  Blackstone Group LP’s credit investment arm bought its
first European CLO manager from AIB Capital Markets Plc in
March. A Citigroup Inc. unit led firms taking over the
management of $4.5 billion of CLOs in the U.S. this month.  Sole Fund-Managed Deal  Alex Simmons, a spokesman for Rothschild in  London ,
declined to comment.  Deutsche Bank AG raised 858 million euros for European
Capital in June in the region’s only fund-managed CLO this year.
 Germany ’s largest bank took some of the bonds onto its own
books.  CLOs package high-yield loans into securities of varying
risk and return. High-yield, or junk, loans are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch.  Elgin Capital was founded in 2003 by Michael Clancy, former
global co-head of credit trading at Merrill Lynch & Co., and
Guillaume Bonpun, head of bond syndication at Dresdner Kleinwort
Benson. Elgin started selling CLOs in 2006, S&P data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  