-- 
Truck Convoy Circles Australia’s Parliament Amid Rally

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-08-23T06:27:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/truckers-rally-around-australia-parliament.html
(Corrects number who attended the rally in first paragraph
of story published on Aug. 22.)  Convoys of trucks descended on
 Australia ’s capital city today, circling parliament house amid a
rally that attracted 400 people opposing Prime Minister  Julia
Gillard ’s carbon tax and calling for another election.  The Convoy of No Confidence attracted trucks from as far as
Rockhampton, 1527 kilometers (949 miles) away. Buses brought
protesters from  Melbourne  in the southern state of Victoria.
Organizer Mick Pattel, president of the National Road Freighters
Association, said yesterday that 10,000 people enrolled for a
protest in front of parliament house throughout the day. Police
said about 400 people attended the rally.  “This government does not have a mandate, as it was formed
with the support of individual politicians rather than being a
government elected by the people,” Pattel said in a phone
interview. “The only way we can solve the impasse is to have
another election.”  The convoy opposes the government’s plan to charge
companies for  carbon emissions  to cut Australia’s pollution. It
is also protesting against the influence of the Australian
Greens over the ruling  Labor Party . The Greens, which have one
member in the lower house of parliament and control the vote in
the upper house Senate, helped Gillard form a government.  “Some 175 pieces of legislation have been passed by the
government in the  House of Representatives ,” Transport Minister
Anthony Albanese told reporters in parliament. “This government
and this parliament are functioning well.”  Labor formed a minority government with the support of non-
party lawmakers after the August 2010 election delivered the
closest result in 70 years. Labor trails the opposition Liberal-
National coalition in opinion polls. The next election is due in
late 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  