-- 
Russia Can Wait Until February to Boost Sugar Imports, Ikar Says

-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 
2011-08-22T14:07:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/russia-can-wait-until-february-to-boost-sugar-imports-ikar-says.html
Russia  has no need for sizable
imports of raw sugar until February as domestic production heads
for a record this year, according to the  Institute for
Agricultural Market Studies .  “Only a tiny stream of imports for industrial consumers,
which can satisfy food-production needs with raw sugar only
because of technological peculiarities, will start flowing to
Russia in December,” Evgeny Ivanov, an analyst at Ikar, as the
Moscow-based institute is known, said by phone today. “Massive
raw-sugar imports are expected not earlier than February.”  Russia is set to produce 4.3 million metric tons of sugar
from domestic beets this year, according to Ivanov. Inbound
deliveries will be limited until February to one to two cargoes
a month at most, each amounting to between 25,000 and 50,000
tons, he said. Processing locally grown beets will require
domestic refiners to use all their capacity, the analyst said.  “Russia cannot refine more, being limited by the current
technological level,” Ivanov said. “Greater output requires
investments.”  Raw-sugar imports came to almost 1.97 million tons from
March through July, when the import duty was lower, according to
Ikar. That was up from 1.55 million tons a year earlier, Ivanov
said. The figures cover actual unloading of cargoes for Russian
consumers in all of the country’s ports and those in the Baltic
states as well as Odessa in Ukraine, he said.  Total raw-sugar imports into Russia reached 2.2 million
tons from January through the end of July, according to Ivanov.
Russia started refining domestic beets this month to produce its
own sweetener, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  