-- 
Sazka’s International Bondholders Oppose Terms in Tender

-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 
2011-08-22T15:21:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/sazka-s-international-bondholders-oppose-terms-in-tender-1-.html
International bondholders for Sazka
AS, the bankrupt Czech lottery operator, said they oppose terms
for the sale of the business as proposed by bankruptcy
administrator Josef Cupka.  “The international holders call on Mr. Cupka to reconsider
the terms of the tender as a matter of urgency,” the law firm
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP said in a statement today in Prague. The
legal firm represents investors holding more than 25 percent of
Sazka’s 2021 bonds.  The statement said the bondholders believe the terms of the
tender “are prejudicial” to their interests and “won’t
maximize returns to Sazka’s creditors.”  The Prague Municipal Court, which put the company into
bankruptcy in May, approved the terms for Sazka’s tender
proposed by its administrator and the creditors’ committee last
week. The terms include a 500 million-koruna ($29.35 million)
deposit from each bidder before doing due diligence on the
company. The price offered by bidders will be the main criterion
for choosing the new owner.  Sazka should be sold “quickly,” Cupka told journalists
today at the presser. The bidders, which will provide the
deposit, have until Sept. 23 to file their offers, Cupka said.  The rules of the tender also include a fine of 1.5 billion
koruna if the winner fails to get an approval of anti-monopoly
bodies to take over Sazka, according to the administrator.  Sazka Value  Ernst & Young estimated the value of Sazka at about 3.58
billion koruna, administrator spokeswoman Lenka Ticha said at
the presser. Sazka does not have any indications that there is
preliminary interest from any bidders yet, Ticha said.  The court put Sazka into bankruptcy in May. Sazka was
declared insolvent after it breached covenants on bonds issued
to finance the construction of the 02 Arena, which hosted the
World Hockey Championship in 2004.  The company also said today it agreed with Czech hockey
player Jaromir Jagr to represent the company in its advertising
campaign for three years. The details of the contract weren’t
made public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  