-- 
HSBC India’s Davis Says Wages Rising as Rivals Poach Bankers

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-08-23T11:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/hsbc-india-s-davis-says-competition-pushing-up-bankers-wages.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank by market value, said rival lenders poaching its bankers in
India is pushing up wage costs that were already exacerbated by
the nation’s high inflation.  The competition is acute in  investment banking  where
“there’s only a limited pool of talent,” Stuart Davis, HSBC’s
chief executive officer for India, said in an interview in
Mumbai yesterday. “Some of our staff are being picked off by
some of the domestic banks. Three years ago you would not have
seen that.”  HSBC India’s retail business is “virtually break-even”
after more than five years of losses, said Davis, 55, who took
charge of the unit in April 2009. The London-based bank is
trying to add market share in investment and commercial banking
as foreign and domestic rivals including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
 Religare Enterprises Ltd. (RELG)  build up their businesses.  Profit before tax in India may rise to $1 billion by 2013,
Davis said. India is HSBC’s third-largest contributor to
earnings in Asia Pacific, after  Hong Kong  and  China , and
generated $451 million in profit before tax in the first half of
this year,  statements  show.  HSBC CEO  Stuart Gulliver  is focusing on emerging markets,
where he plans to expand hiring even as he cuts 30,000 jobs
worldwide by the end of 2013. HSBC has already trimmed 5,000
jobs and may recruit 3,000 to 4,000 people a year in emerging
markets, Gulliver said Aug. 2.  May Consider Listing  The bank’s subsidiary in  India  may consider a listing in 10
years in an economy averaging 8 percent growth and a banking
system that’s expanding at more than twice that pace.  “When we become a wholly owned subsidiary in India, we at
some time would want to list” in the country, Davis said. “We
have no intentions at the present time, but when one looks out
10 or 20 years, that’s perhaps a possibility.”  The bank is now redeploying some workers in India to avoid
eliminating jobs, Rajesh Joshi, a Mumbai-based spokesman for
HSBC, said on July 14. It has about 6,000 employees in the
country, Davis said yesterday.  “We are reviewing the way we conduct business,
particularly the bureaucracy within our operations, which is
slowing down decision making,” Davis said, when asked whether
there would be any job losses at the bank’s Indian unit. He
declined to provide further information.  Indian financial institutions are becoming as competitive
as HSBC, Standard Chartered Plc and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in what they
pay to attract bankers, said R. Suresh, managing director of the
Indian unit of Stanton Chase International, an executive search
firm.  Wage Inflation  “There is a 15 percent to 20 percent increase in wages in
normal circumstances,” he said. “However, a good performer can
easily expect a 25 percent to 30 percent hike.”  Jefferies Group Inc., the U.S. investment bank that’s
expanding its advisory and trading units in India, hired five
people from Credit Suisse Group AG to build its capital markets
team in the country, two people with knowledge of the matter
said on March 15. Religare said in May it hired Gautam Trivedi
from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to head institutional equities in
the country.  Haresh Shivdasani, head of Indian equities at HSBC,
resigned on April 25 after less than two years in the role.  Low Market Share  HSBC, which started operations in India in 1853, believes
the benefits of converting its local unit into a wholly owned
subsidiary “outweigh the negatives,” Davis said.  The  Reserve Bank of India  is considering making it
mandatory for overseas banks to set up local subsidiaries if
their branches’ assets met 0.25 percent of total banking assets
in the previous financial year. Foreign lenders would also face
tighter norms on expansion when their combined capital and
reserves exceed 25 percent of total capital in the banking
system, the central bank proposed in a Jan. 21 paper.  “Realistically, I can’t see foreign banks getting above 10
percent market share in India,” Davis said.  Foreign banks account for about 7 percent of the nation’s
total banking assets,  Reserve Bank  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao
said in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  