-- 
Seattle Genetics Faces Hurdles as Investors Dread Dendreon-Like Rollout

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-08-22T20:26:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/seattle-genetics-shares-drop-as-investors-dread-dendreon-like-rollout.html
Seattle Genetics Inc. (SGEN) , in marketing
its newly approved lymphoma drug, will have to overcome barriers
that have hindered at least three biotechnology companies trying
to sell their first medicines in the past year.  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) ,  Savient Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SVNT)  and  Human
Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  have suffered share declines after their
treatments failed to meet initial sales expectations. Clay Siegall, chief executive officer of Seattle Genetics, said today
his company is prepared for a successful introduction.  “We are ready to ship the drug today,” Siegall said in an
interview. “Our sales, our marketing, our logistics teams are
hitting the ground.”  Shares of the Bothell, Washington-based company dropped 31
cents, or 2.1 percent, to $14.73 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The company has declined
28 percent since July 14 when the medicine, Adcetris, was
recommended for approval by a U.S. advisory panel, after rising
fivefold in the five years before the panel’s decision.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the treatment, the
first approved for Hodgkin lymphoma in three decades, on Aug.
19, 11 days ahead of its target date.  No longer is it enough for biotechnology companies to spend
years and millions of dollars developing experimental drugs,
gathering data to show their medicines can help patients with
acceptable levels of side effects. Investors want to know if the
drug will be reimbursed by insurance companies, how many
patients will benefit from it and which doctors will prescribe
it, said Mark Monane, an analyst with Needham & Co.  Different Expectations  “You have to develop a drug, and then you have to be able
to launch a drug, and those are not necessarily connected,”
Monane said in an interview before the FDA approved Adcetris.
“If you’re good at development, it doesn’t give you a get-out-
of-jail-free card.”  Dendreon’s prostate-cancer compound, Provenge, was approved
by the FDA in April 2010 as the first medicine to train the
body’s immune system to attack cancer cells like a virus. The
company withdrew its 2011 revenue estimate of $350 million to
$400 million earlier this month, sending the shares down 67
percent.  Some doctors weren’t aware that Dendreon’s $93,000
treatment is reimbursed by Medicare and Medicaid and have held
off on prescribing it, the company said.  ‘General Concern’  “There is a general concern about owning any company into
a drug launch, and the recent blowup of Dendreon does not
help,”  Jason Kantor , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in San
Francisco, said today in an e-mail. “General concerns relate to
reimbursement, uptake, execution and expectations.”  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  is another example. The
company’s hepatitis C drug Incivek won approval from the FDA on
May 23. Shares had gained 57 percent this year prior to that
date, and have declined 19 percent since, even as Incivek sales
more than doubled analysts’ estimates for the second quarter.  Taking a drug beyond specialists to general practitioners
can lead to sticker shock, said David Nierengarten, an analyst
with Wedbush Securities Inc.  “When you start trying to translate oncology prices from
the oncology market, where oncologists have adjusted over the
last decade, to these new markets, and new physicians, they’re
not experienced with it, they don’t have the balance sheet to
take the drugs, even if they want to prescribe them,” he said.
“Dendreon got slammed because they went to urologists, who, for
the most part, aren’t oncologists.”  Savient, which plans to promote its gout drug Krystexxa to
primary-care physicians; and Human Genome Sciences with
Benlysta, a therapy for lupus, are among the companies facing a
similar challenge, Nierengarten said.  Strong Drumbeat  “There’s been a very strong short drumbeat for the past 14
months, headlining how biotech launches have been disasters,”
said Marko Kozul, an analyst with ThinkEquity Partners LLC in
 San Francisco , in a telephone interview today. “Seattle
Genetics is not doomed to follow that same trend.”  Seattle Genetics will charge $13,500 per dose or an
estimated $108,000 for a course of treatment of Adcetris, the
company said today in a conference call.  Kozul pointed to differing approaches in strategy,
commercial teams and patient populations between Dendreon and
Seattle Genetics.  “Dendreon has a drug for prostate cancer that serves
millions of American males,” he said. “Seattle Genetics has a
niche oncology product for a much smaller market.”  Optimistic View  Kantor said he is optimistic about Seattle Genetics’
prospects because of the “high unmet medical need” of the
patients it’s targeting, the drug’s “robust efficacy,” and a
price he said isn’t too high.  To ensure a smooth debut for Adcetris, also known as
brentuximab, Seattle Genetics has hired more than 60 sales
people to target 8,500 doctors that might prescribe the new
medicine, Siegall said during an Aug. 4 conference call. Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co., based in  Osaka ,  Japan , is a development
partner on the medicine and has marketing rights outside the
U.S. and  Canada .  Seattle Genetics also is talking to distributors, insurers
and drug purchasing networks about reimbursing for the
treatment. Siegall said the company is “well-prepared” from a
reimbursement perspective.  “A number of years ago, I heard  Wall Street  saying, ‘I
don’t think you’ll be able to have a drug that works any good
with your new technology.’ Well we’ve proved that it works,”
Siegall said today. “Now what we’re hearing is, ‘Gee, we don’t
think you’re going to be able to sell much of it.’ It’s not my
goal every day to prove the naysayers wrong. It’s my goal to
make a difference in the lives of patients with cancer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 