-- 
SEB Bank Aims to Sell Berlin Real Estate Assets Stake, Denies Welt Report

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-08-22T11:36:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/seb-bank-aims-to-sell-berlin-real-estate-assets-stake-denies-welt-report.html
SEB AB aims to sell 50 percent of
Potsdamer Platz, Berlin’s biggest property development since the
city’s reunification in 1990.  SEB’s asset management unit is sticking to a plan announced
in June to seek a joint-venture partner for the complex in
central Berlin, the Stockholm-based bank said today in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News. The bank
denied a report in German newspaper Die Welt that it wants to
sell as much as 90 percent of Potsdamer Platz.  The sale of a stake in the development, which includes the
Grand Hyatt Berlin and the Arkaden shopping center, is “on
track,” SEB said.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch unit is
advising the lender on the transaction.  SEB is reviewing its portfolio to raise the money needed to
reopen the SEB Immoinvest fund after a spate of withdrawals by
investors, according to the e-mail. The company is in talks to
sell four other properties.  “There is continuing investor interest in office property,
although there is a current shortage of suitable products
available for sale,”  Jones Lang  LaSalle Inc. said in a July
report on the Berlin market.  ‘Positive Momentum’  Office space take-up on the Berlin lettings market rose 39
percent to a 10-year high in the first half and the “positive
market momentum” will likely continue in the second half, Jones
Lang said.  The Swedish bank froze  SEB Immoinvest (S3EA)  in May 2010 after
investors in the industry “reacted with significant
uncertainty” to planned financial market regulation announced
in March of that year, according to a  statement  the lender
published in August 2010. The lender plans to reopen the fund
this year, before the May 2012 deadline.  SEB plans to sell real estate in Berlin valued at 1.5
billion euros ($2.2 billion), Die Welt reported, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter.  Norway’s state pension fund, as well as pension funds in
 Asia  and the  Middle East , may be interested in acquiring the
assets, the newspaper said. Bunny Nooryani, a spokeswoman at the
Norwegian Government Pension Fund Global, said the investor
doesn’t comment on individual investments.  SEB bought Daimler AG’s share of the Potsdamer Platz real-
estate assets for about 1.4 billion euros in February 2008. SEB
acquired 19 buildings with total space of 500,000 square meters
(5.4 million square feet).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 