-- 
Serbia Seeks Escape From Kosovo Trap as Violence Risks EU Entry

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i ,   M i s h a   S a v i c   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-08-22T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/serbia-seeks-escape-from-kosovo-trap-as-violence-risks-eu-entry.html
In the divided Kosovar town of
Mitrovica, Serb flags snap in the breeze along the Ibar River.
On the Albanian side, NATO troops guard a bridge after a
policeman was killed and a checkpoint torched in July.  “I know it would be a good thing to have a normal
situation,” said Shukrije Behrami, a 45-year-old ethnic
Albanian, as she peered across the river. “Maybe things will
get better in 10 years.”  Serbia  can’t wait that long. President Boris Tadic will
seek to persuade German Chancellor Angela Merkel today that
Serbia is serious about peace with Kosovo as it strives to win a
date for European Union entry talks by year-end. The Balkan
nation turned over the last war-crimes suspect last month, and
now needs to stem escalating violence with its former province
to keep EU aspirations alive and win billions of euros to
improve roads, bridges, utilities and transportation systems.  “Serbia is in a very difficult situation,” said Predrag Simic, a political analyst at the Faculty for Political Sciences
in Belgrade. “It’s vital for Serbia to continue dialogue” with
Kosovo “because that dialogue is a pre-condition for further EU
integration.”  A political settlement with ethnic Albanians, who account
for about 90 percent of Kosovars, would have been unthinkable in
the years after the North Atlantic Treaty Organization expelled
Serb troops in 1999 from  Kosovo , which declared independence in
2008 and is recognized by 22 of 27 EU states. After condemning
Serb actions in Kosovo leading up to the 1999 war, The EU
criticized Pristina in the latest dispute for provoking
skirmishes by seizing border checkpoints over a trade dispute
with Serbia without prior consultation.  ‘Hooligans, Gangsters’  Tadic risked losing his own country’s nationalist support
before elections next year by blaming part of the July violence
on some of the local Serbs, calling them “hooligans” and
“gangsters” for burning down a building at a border crossing.
He also urged a return to negotiations with the Kosovar
government, which Serbs refuse to recognize.  “Serbia needs to normalize its relations with Kosovo at a
certain stage for it to join,” said European Commission
spokesman  Michael Mann  in a phone interview, adding that
recognizing it as a state is not a formal condition for
membership.  At the same time, “good neighbourly relations is kind of
normal business in the EU” and “cooperation is a key part of
the EU’s political criteria,” Mann said.  ‘Scars of the Past’  Merkel’s visit to Serbia to meet Tadic and other Serb
officials follows a stopover in Croatia yesterday. She will also
meet the widow of Zoran Djindjic, who was assassinated in 2003
while serving as Serbia’s prime minister. Djindjic was the force
behind the 2000 ouster of strongman Slobodan Milosevic and his
handover to the United Nations war crimes tribunal in  The Hague ,
where he died.  “There can’t be any European prospect for this region
unless everyone makes an effort, even if the scars of the past
still fester in a deep and difficult way,” Merkel said in her
weekly podcast released Aug. 20. One of her tasks in Belgrade
will be to urge Serbia to “resume the dialogue with Kosovo.”  Serbia’s economic development fell behind other former
communist nations after the civil wars that followed
 Yugoslavia ’s collapse in the 1990s. That has started to change
with EU prospects.  The central bank is working to bring down  Europe ’s second-
highest interest rate and investors to pour $683.8 million into
the economy in the first five months, up from $540.8 million a
year earlier.  Economic Rebound  Gross domestic product in the country of 7.2 million people
is set to expand 3 percent this year, driven by investments,
according to the International Monetary Fund’s  website . That
compares with 2.5 percent in Germany, Europe’s largest economy,
and 1.7 percent in the U.K.  Serbia, which became a pariah to the West under former
President  Slobodan Milosevic , turned over the last remaining war
crimes suspect,  Goran Hadzic , for trial in The Hague on July 20,
earning praise from the European Commission.  Four days after Hadzic was caught, Kosovar police seized a
border crossing and the government imposed a trade embargo on
Serb products because the larger neighbor rejected customs
declaration forms stamped with the Republic of Kosovo insignia.  Kosovar Prime Minister Hashim Thaci said the seizure was
“legitimate, legal and in line with international standards,”
though EU Foreign Policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said the
blockade was “not done in consultation” with the EU. During
the dispute, a Kosovar policeman was shot and killed and Serb
youths torched a building at a border crossing.  Trade Links  Also at risk is 310 million euros ($442 million) in cross-
border trade for both countries. Kosovo, whose economy may
expand as much as 5 percent this year, also said it expects 300
million euros in lost  tax revenue  this year.  The Kosovar trade embargo against Serbia, which is also
diminishing the supply of goods to local Serbs in Kosovo, is
prompting the Pristina government to strengthen trade ties with
other surrounding countries, including  Croatia  and  Bulgaria .
Croatian Prime Minister  Jadranka Kosor  will visit Kosovo on Aug.
24 to discuss trade, Croatian daily Vecernji List reported on
Aug. 12.  Kosovar Trade and Industry Minister Mimoza Kusari Lila said
the government needed to increase security at the border because
of organized crime, such as smuggling. She said local Serbs in
the area would also benefit if control is strengthened at
borders.  “They are like two prisoners chained at the ankles hopping
about but, while chained, unable to go where they need to go,”
said Tim Judah, a Balkan expert at the Economist and the author
of “The Serbs: History Myth and the Destruction of
Yugoslavia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Pristina via Ljubljana at 
1006 or  bcerni@bloomberg.net 
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net 
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  