-- 
Shanshui, Building Material Stocks Fall on Tightening Concerns

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-22T09:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/shanshui-building-material-stocks-fall-on-tightening-concerns.html
China  Shanshui Cement Group fell in
 Hong Kong  trading, leading other construction companies lower,
on concern the Chinese government will further tighten monetary
policy, crimping building demand.  Shanshui Cement Group, a Shandong-based cement and clinker
producer, dropped 10.9 percent to HK$6.50, the lowest in almost
five months.  China State Construction International Holdings Ltd. (3311) 
fell 10.4 percent and China National Building Material Co.
declined 4.3 percent. The benchmark Hong Kong  Hang Seng Index (HSI) 
rose 0.5 percent.  Stocks in China fell today, extending losses to a fifth day,
as the nation’s money-market rate climbed to its highest level
in almost three weeks after the central bank raised yields at
bill auctions, fueling speculation of further monetary
tightening. Falling cement prices may also indicate that demand
for building materials will be weak, Zhu Jixiang, an analyst at
Capital Securities, said by telephone today.  “Investors may be concerned about further property
tightening measures by the Chinese government as there’s no sign
that property prices have been reined in,” Ricky Tam, a Hong
Kong-based director at Champlus Asset Management, said by phone.  Prices for new homes gained in July from a year earlier in
68 of 70 cities monitored by the government, the statistics
bureau said last week.  The People’s Bank of China lifted yields on its three-month,
one-year and three-year bills last week. The one-year yield now
exceeds the central bank’s benchmark rate for similar-term
deposits, a sign policy rates may be increased, Daiwa Capital
Markets Hong Kong Ltd. said in an Aug. 19 report.  --Penny Peng in Beijing and Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong. Editors:
Tan Hwee Ann,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Penny Peng in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7719 or
 ppeng18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  