-- 
ShengdaTech Board Members Sue Chief Executive Officer on Claims of Fraud

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-08-22T21:49:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/shengdatech-board-files-suit-against-ceo-in-chinese-reverse-merger-case.html
Board members of  ShengdaTech Inc. (SDTH) , a
Chinese company that gained access to U.S. investors through a
reverse merger, sued the chief executive officer of the bankrupt
chemical maker, claiming he’s obstructing an internal fraud
investigation.  A special committee of ShengdaTech sued Chen Xiangzhi to
prevent him from regaining control of the company, ending a
probe of its finances and ousting a newly appointed chief
restructuring officer.  Reorganizing ShengdaTech requires “the continued existence
of the special committee and the CRO, and the preservation of
their independent powers,” the board members said in court
papers filed Aug. 20 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Reno,  Nevada .  Chen could not be immediately reached for comment at
ShengdaTech offices, where no one answered the phone before
business hours in  China .  The company listed $295.4 million in assets and
$180.9 million in debt as of last Sept. 30 in court papers the
special committee filed Aug. 19.  ShengdaTech makes nano precipitated calcium carbonate, or
NPCC, a chemical additive used in automotive and polyvinyl
chloride products. ShengdaTech is the only supplier of NPCC
products to the tire industry in China, according to the
company’s  website .  The company was organized by a so-called reverse merger in
2006, when Chen’s Faith Bloom Limited acquired a U.S. company
incorporated in Nevada named Zeolite Exploration Co.  Failure to File  ShengdaTech traded on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange until
April, when it failed to file an annual financial report and its
auditor resigned.  Since 2007, more than 150 Chinese companies with a market
value of $12.8 billion entered U.S. markets through reverse
mergers,  according  to the  Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board , which oversees auditors of public companies. During that
same period, about 50 Chinese companies filed initial public
offerings.  In a reverse merger, a company not listed in the U.S. buys
an American public shell corporation, allowing the new entity to
avoid the scrutiny of an initial public offering.  U.S. exchanges have frozen or delisted shares of more than
a dozen China-based firms since March.  The case is In re ShengdaTech Inc., 11-52649, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 