-- 
Somali Pirates Hijack Chemical Tanker Anchored Off Oman Port

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-08-22T12:14:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/somali-pirates-hijack-chemical-tanker-anchored-off-oman-port-1-.html
Somali pirates hijacked a chemical
tanker within 3 nautical miles of the Omani port of Salaleh, the
first seizure within territorial waters and while a vessel was
at anchor, the International Maritime Bureau said.  Armed pirates boarded the Fairchem Bogey on Aug. 20, taking
21 crew hostage and putting the vessel on course for Somalia,
according to the bureau’s Piracy Reporting Centre.  Pirates usually target vessels that are at sea, and the
latest attack shows increased desperation as vessels deploy
additional security for protection, said bureau manager Cyrus Mody.  “It could lead to an increase in the use of weapons as
well,” he said. “It’s upping the game a little bit.”  Attacks on vessels by Somali pirates operating in the  Gulf
of Aden  and the Indian Ocean, an area as large as  Europe , rose
to a record in 2011’s first half, according to the  International
Maritime Organization , the  United Nations ’ shipping agency.
Piracy costs the global economy an estimated $7 billion to $12
billion a year, the IMO says.  The Fairchem Bogey’s owners said they did not have armed
security on board, according to Harrie Harrison, a spokesman for
the European Union Naval Force.  “We take this as a change of tactics by the pirates and
the reaction of coastal forces in the area will probably be to
increase security,” Harrison said.  Protection  T. Hayase, president of Fairfield Japan Ltd., the Japanese
subsidiary of Roseland, New Jersey-based vessel owner  Fairfield-
Maxwell Services Ltd. , confirmed the hijack and declined to
comment further.  Some 25 percent of ships that transit the Gulf of Aden and
 Indian Ocean  region use private armed military teams as
protection against pirate attacks, U.K. lawmaker Henry
Bellingham told a committee hearing on July 6.  Nineteen vessels with 376 hostages and 26 additional
hostages on land are being held by Somali pirates, according to
IMB, a division of the  International Chamber of Commerce .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  