-- 
SPDR Gold May Wrest ETF Crown From S&P 500 Fund Amid Turmoil

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-08-22T21:41:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/spdr-gold-may-wrest-etf-crown-from-s-p-500-fund-amid-turmoil.html
Gold reached a new milestone in its
role as an investment and haven, with the leading exchange-
traded fund that tracks bullion surpassing its equities
counterpart as the biggest ETF by market value.  SPDR Gold Trust’s market capitalization rose to $76.7
billion on Aug. 19, according to the most recent data compiled
by Bloomberg, driven by the rising prices of the metal, which
topped $1,900 an ounce for the first time today.  SPDR S&P 500
ETF Trust (SPY) , which has been the industry’s largest exchange-traded
fund since 1993, stood at $74.4 billion, now 3.1 percent
smaller. At the start of the year, the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index-tracking ETF was 56 percent larger.  “Gold has become the portfolio antidote for the global
financial crisis,” James McDonald, chief investment strategist
at Northern Trust Corp., the Chicago-based custody bank and
money manager, said in an interview.  The metal is up 34 percent in 2011, which would be its 11th
straight year of gains, while the  S&P 500 Index (SPX) , a benchmark of
the biggest U.S. stocks, has lost 11 percent. Investors have
accelerated the retreat from equities on concerns that European
countries will struggle to repay their debts and that the U.S.
economy is weakening under the strain of unemployment above 9
percent, falling home values and a decline in  consumer
confidence .  The SPDR 500 ETF rose 9 cents to $112.73 in New York
trading today at 4:15 p.m. The SPDR Gold Trust rose $4.64, or
2.6 percent, to $184.59.  Multiple Investor Preferences  “We are seeing some lasting asset-allocation shifts to
gold, including by central banks, as well as some safe-haven
flows that could well be reversed in the months ahead,” said
Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co., the  Newport Beach , California-based manager of
$1.3 trillion in assets.  “The dramatic surge in demand for gold reflects the
aggregation of many investor preferences -- for example, from
those seeking shelter from lower stock markets to those
protecting against currency debasement by central banks,” El-
Erian wrote in an e-mailed response to questions.  Gold underperformed U.S. stocks in the 1990s in an era of
deregulation, Frank Holmes, chief investment officer and CEO of
San Antonio-based U.S. Global Investors Inc., said in an
interview. That trend started to reverse in 2002 as  government
regulation  increased, and accelerated with the Dodd-Frank rules
instituted after the financial crisis of 2008, Holmes said.
Rising demand from emerging economies such as  India  and  China 
has also contributed to higher prices of the metal, he said.  Fear, Love  “We’re on a hyper-speed of regulation, and that’s not the
best thing for the stock markets,” said Holmes, who oversees
more than $3 billion in funds including those that invest in
gold-mining stocks. “The rise of China and India has set up a
different dynamic for gold, so you’re seeing the fear trade as
well as the love trade.”  The SPDR Gold Trust ETF, created by the World Gold Council
in November 2004, is the biggest ETF tracking the price of the
precious metal. State Street, based in  Boston , is the sales and
marketing agent for the fund, which is physically backed by gold
bars deposited in a London vault. It’s one of at least three
such U.S.-based ETFs. New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s iShares
Gold Trust had a market value of almost $10 billion on Aug. 19.  The growth in SPDR Gold Trust this year has been largely
driven by the rising value of gold, as the number of shares
outstanding in the fund increased by about 1 percent. Since July
1, the number of shares in Gold Trust has climbed by 7.1
percent, contributing to the gain in assets.  Haven With Risk  Investors turn to gold in times of financial and economic
turmoil as an alternative store of wealth to stocks and the
dollar and a hedge against inflation. Cash and Treasuries are
also haven investments, and are considered safer than gold,
according Northern Trust’s McDonald.  “Gold is not a substitute for cash or Treasury bonds,” he
said. “Because of the lack of an earnings stream behind it,
when sentiment shifts, gold can go in the other direction and
will have more momentum behind it.”  BlackRock’s  Russ Koesterich , iShares’ global chief
investment strategist, wrote in an Aug. 19 report that investors
looking for a defensive investment amid concerns about the
global market should consider a “strategic allocation” to gold
even after the metal’s rise over the past few weeks.  “Recent signs from  Washington  and the Fed point to a
continued erosion of the dollar relative to foreign
currencies,” Koesterich wrote. “Gold tends to do best when the
dollar is eroding.”  Paulson’s Stake  U.S. Global’s Holmes said the value of the dollar relative
to bullion has dropped 98 percent since President  Richard Nixon 
dropped the gold standard in August 1971. As gold continues to
rise, it’s “prudent” for investors to hold about 5 percent of
their assets in gold or gold-mining stocks, he said.  Paulson & Co., the hedge fund run by billionaire  John Paulson , was the largest holder in SPDR Gold Trust as of June
30, with 31.5 million shares, or 7.4 percent of outstanding
stock, according to regulatory filings.  The holdings are used for the New York-based hedge fund’s
gold-denominated share classes, which have outperformed the
firm’s dollar classes this year. The investment accounts for
about a third of the firm’s $35 billion in assets, according to
a person familiar with the fund, who asked not to be named
because the information is private. Most of Paulson’s personal
investments in his hedge fund are held in the gold share
classes, the person said.  Access to Bullion  The SPDR  S&P 500 , opened in January 1993, is the oldest
existing product in the ETF industry, which oversees $1.1
trillion in assets in the U.S. It’s one of three U.S. ETFs
larger than $1 billion that track the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, excluding leveraged and inverse funds.  Unlike mutual funds, ETFs create or redeem shares in large
blocks at the request of big institutional investors, known as
authorized participants. Small investors must purchase or sell
shares on an exchange, where they trade throughout the day like
stocks. U.S. mutual funds are priced once a day, after the close
of regular trading.  The creation of ETFs to invest in gold has given investors
a way to benefit from rising gold prices, without having to
directly own or trade the precious metal. Research firm
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  tracks about two dozen gold mutual funds in the
U.S., all of which invest in gold-mining stocks or indexes
composed of companies engaged in exploring and mining the
precious metal. The stocks and indexes don’t necessarily move in
tandem with the price of the underlying metal.  ‘Scared’ Away  “The market volatility has scared investors away from
stocks,” Paul Justice, an analyst with Morningstar in  Chicago ,
said in an interview. “No mutual fund can offer what the gold
ETF can, but the S&P 500 ETF has many competitors.”  The S&P 500 index has tumbled 18 percent from this year’s
peak on April 29. The index returned an average of 1.9 percent a
year including dividends in the decade ended Aug. 12, souring
investors who counted on equities to resume their historic long-
term gains of about 10 percent a year.  Morgan Stanley cut its forecast on Aug. 18 for 2011 global
expansion, citing an “insufficient” response to  Europe ’s debt
troubles, weakened confidence and the prospect of fiscal
tightening. The bank lowered its growth prediction to 3.9
percent from a previous forecast of 4.2 percent.  Slower Growth  Citigroup Inc. cut its growth forecasts for the world’s
largest economy and trimmed its earnings estimates for the S&P
500. The  U.S. economy  may expand less than previously forecast
in 2011 and 2012 because of potential “political paralysis”
and fiscal-tightening measures, Citigroup analysts wrote in a
report dated Aug. 18.  The bank cut its 2011 gross domestic product growth
forecast to 1.6 percent from 1.7 percent and lowered its 2012
GDP growth estimate to 2.1 percent from 2.7 percent. It cut its
2011 and 2012 per-share earnings estimates for the S&P 500 to
$97 and $101 respectively.  SPDR Gold Trust has climbed every year since inception,
including a 30 percent gain in 2011. The gold ETF has more than
doubled in price since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in September 2008 roiled financial markets, while the SPDR
S&P 500 ETF declined 4.6 percent including dividends.  Gold’s gains accelerated in the third quarter as record-low
U.S. borrowing costs and a declining dollar boosted the appeal
of alternative assets. Holdings in global ETFs backed by gold
have grown 85 percent since the end of 2008, reaching an all-
time high of 2,216.76 metric tons on Aug. 8, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story: Sree Vidya
Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ; Christopher Condon in Boston at
   ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Edelman at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net  