-- 
Spread Dropping to Nine-Month Low Signals More Easing by BOJ: Japan Credit

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-08-23T03:36:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/spread-dropping-to-nine-month-low-signals-more-easing-by-boj-japan-credit.html
Japan ’s two-year bonds yielded the
least relative to overnight lending rates between banks in nine
months on speculation the  Bank of Japan  will add to monetary
easing to counter the yen’s advance against the dollar.  The spread fell to 4.9 basis points yesterday, the least
since Nov. 4. The two-year overnight-index swap rate, an
indication of what traders expect the Bank of Japan’s key
interest rate will average during the period, sank to 0.05
percent, the least since Oct. 5. The comparable U.S. rate slid
to 0.07 percent on Aug. 11, a level not seen since Dec. 2001.  Traders are increasing bets that the BOJ will keep up with
its U.S. counterpart in monetary easing after the  Federal
Reserve  pledged this month to keep  interest rates  at a record
low through the middle of 2013. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is
scheduled to speak this week amid speculation the central bank
will introduce a third round of Treasury bond purchases to lower
borrowing costs and stimulate the economy.  “The market has started pricing in further easing from the
Bank of Japan,” said Makoto Noji, a senior debt and foreign-
exchange strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo, one
of the 25 primary dealers obliged to bid at government debt
sales. “There may be an unspoken understanding between the Fed
and BOJ,” for example, if the Fed eases policy, the BOJ will
follow, he said.  ‘Feeling of Powerlessness’  The yen climbed to a post-World War II record of 75.95 per
dollar on Aug. 19, threatening to derail Japan’s export-led
recovery. BOJ Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi said on Aug. 21
that he is worried about the yen’s appreciation. Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said yesterday he will take “bold
actions if necessary.” The yen traded at 76.79 per dollar today
in Tokyo.  While Japan sold the currency three times in the past 12
months, the yen surpassed its previous highs a few weeks after
each intervention. When Japan intervened on Aug. 4 for a third
time, the BOJ expanded its asset-purchase fund, doubling its
investment in domestic  government bonds  to 4 trillion yen ($52
billion), and kept its benchmark interest rate near zero.  “There is a feeling of powerlessness and doubt that
nothing will take effect” to stop the yen’s advance, said
 Tetsuya Miura , chief market analyst at Mizuho Securities Co.,
another primary dealer. “I think the BOJ will introduce another
easing step at the next meeting” on Sept. 7.  U.S. Outlook  A stronger yen decreases the value of overseas earnings for
the nation’s exporters when repatriated. It also makes Japanese-
made products costlier overseas.  Yields on  U.S. Treasuries  tumbled to record lows this
month, reducing the allure of dollar-denominated assets. The Fed
said Aug. 9 that a U.S. recovery was “considerably slower”
than anticipated and it’s prepared to use a range of policy
tools to boost the economy.  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1.3 percent pace in
the second quarter, missing the economist estimate for a 1.8
percent increase, a Commerce Department report showed last
month. Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut their U.S.
growth forecasts last week.  Bernanke is scheduled to speak on Aug. 26 at a conference
in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , where Bernanke foreshadowed the second
round of so-called quantitative easing last year. The central
bank completed the $600 billion bond-purchase program in June.  The 10-year Treasury yield sank to a record 1.9735 percent
Aug. 18. The extra yield it offers over similar-maturity
Japanese debt fell to 1.06 percentage points on Aug. 10, the
least since January 2009.  Keep Dancing  Barclays Plc said 10-year yields indicate traders have
priced in $500 billion to $600 billion of Treasury purchases by
the Fed. Citigroup Inc. said current rates can only be justified
by more central bank bond buying or assuming the economy will
shrink by 2 percent.  Japan’s 10-year bonds yielded 1.005 percent today in  Tokyo 
after reaching 0.97 percent on Aug. 19, the lowest since Nov. 9.  “A dance party never ends until the music stops,” said
Mizuho’s Miura. “As long as concerns about an economic recovery
are playing like tunes here and there, we should keep dancing in
the bond-buying party.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  