-- 
States Pursue Sales Tax Revenue Vanishing Into Computing Cloud

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-08-22T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/states-pursue-sales-tax-revenue-vanishing-into-computing-cloud.html
State sales tax systems created to
generate revenue from face-to-face exchanges of tangible goods
are struggling to keep up with the rapid shift of business
transactions into the so-called cloud of the Internet.  As more companies use cloud-based servers and software,
which are remote networks of computing resources often shared by
multiple customers, the 20th-century rules of taxation no longer
apply. Instead, accountants, lawyers, state tax officials and
companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  NetSuite Inc. (N)  are
working to develop new guidelines for taxing the use of these
emerging technologies.  “The thing that is being called cloud computing, while
we’ve been doing pieces of it for some years, is now looking to
be a new business model in a large way, and it affects every tax
type you’ve got,” said Verenda Smith, director of
administration and policy at the  Federation of Tax
Administrators , a Washington group that represents state revenue
departments.  The tussles over taxation of cloud computing extend beyond
the familiar e-commerce dispute about whether states can require
out-of-state companies to collect taxes on sales to in-state
consumers. Tax authorities and companies are debating whether
companies that sell software and data accessed through the cloud
are peddling a taxable good or a nontaxable service.  Companies including  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , and Google are trying to capitalize on a global
market for cloud computing that is expected to increase to $241
billion in 2020 from $40.7 billion this year, according to
 Forrester Research Inc. (FORR) , which analyzes trends in technology.  Doubling Cloud Revenue  Mark Loughridge, the chief financial officer of IBM, said
in an earnings conference call in July that the company is on
track to double its revenue from cloud services for the year
compared with 2010, and forecasts $7 billion in revenue from
these services by 2015.  In the absence of clear rules on taxing cloud computing,
dozens of skirmishes between businesses and governments over
individual transactions are taking place across the country. The
precedents set may help shape states’ ability to maintain their
tax bases.  Technology companies, backed by lawmakers including Senator
 Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, and House Judiciary Committee
Chairman  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican, are backing federal
legislation that would regulate and limit states’ taxing
authority of digital goods and services. Amazon, Apple,  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  are part of
the  Download Fairness Coalition  formed to lobby on the issue,
which encompasses state taxation of downloaded music and movies.  “It is an enormous burden on businesses trying to figure
this all out,” said Jim McGeever, chief operating officer of
NetSuite, a cloud-based financial management service provider
with its headquarters in  San Mateo , California.  ‘Very Substantial Process’  McGeever said when his company considers potential
acquisitions of smaller companies it will have to spend between
$500,000 and $1.5 million to clean up the other companies’
sales-tax disputes.  “Just the third-party consulting costs and advisers, costs
of filing all the back returns and negotiating with each agency,
it’s a very substantial process that can take a year and a
half,” he said. “So it’s expensive in terms of time, it’s
expensive in terms of money, it’s just a very difficult part of
the process.”  Smith, of the state tax group, said the proposed federal
law wouldn’t mesh well with states’ different taxation systems
and would lock in rules that wouldn’t be easy to change without
going back to Congress.  Borders Disappear  States rely on reaping revenue from economic activity
within their borders. As those borders disappear online, state
officials worry that they won’t be able to collect taxes.  For example, states have long taxed off-the-shelf software
purchases, and they often see purchasing cloud-based services as
analogous to shopping at an office-supply store, said Kendall Houghton, an attorney at Alston & Bird LLP in  Washington .
Companies may challenge that analysis and contend that the shift
of software out of a physical location transformed what was once
a tangible item into a service.  “The departments of revenue have pretty old definitions of
tax base items for sales tax purposes,” she said. “What we see
is a tendency to try and shoehorn cloud computing services and
products into existing definitions, so that you can say yea or
nay on the taxability.”  Confusing Situations  The changing nature of business transactions creates
confusing situations for state tax administrators. For example,
a New York-based company may purchase server space and cloud-
based software from a Texas-based company. That’s relatively
straightforward, except that the Texas company may have servers
in  North Carolina  and  California , while the New York company may
have satellite offices in  Illinois ,  Florida  and  Kentucky  that
use the server space.  Furthermore, some of the New York company’s employees may
be able to gain access to the same data and programs from their
smart phones while they’re traveling out of their home state.  In some cases, the property transfer that typically signals
a taxable event doesn’t occur, said Todd Harke, senior manager
of state and local tax at the accounting firm  CBIZ MHM LLC .  “If you’ve taxed software when it’s been transferred from
a seller to a buyer, now you may not have that transaction
anymore,” he said.  The new transactions are fundamentally different from
conventional purchases, said Reid Okimoto, a senior manager at
 KPMG LLP . It’s akin to the difference, he said, between renting
a bus and paying for a ride on one.  So far, most states haven’t rewritten sales tax laws to
address these concerns or issued regulations, Houghton said.  Much ‘at Stake’  “It’s not just a new thing out there,” Smith said. “It’s
looking to have the potential to be a game-changer in the way
all companies do several pieces of their business. There’s just
a lot at stake.”  Washington state, which  amended its sales tax laws  for
digital transactions starting in July 2009, tried to leave room
for the technology to change, said Dylan Waits, managing senior
policy counsel at the Washington Department of Revenue.  The goal of the state’s rules is to focus on what is being
purchased and not on how it’s delivered. That way, Washington
residents are liable for tax whether they buy a CD from a store
or download songs from the Internet.  In the absence of clear guidance, companies are seeking
rulings from state tax authorities on specific transactions.  “The states are dealing with it quite poorly, not because
they’re trying to deal with it poorly, but because they’re
trying to adapt,” Okimoto said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  