-- 
State Bonds Yield Gap to Federal Debt Widest Since 2009: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-08-23T03:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/state-bonds-yield-gap-to-federal-debt-widest-since-2009-australia-credit.html
Australian state bond yields are
trading at their highest levels since May 2009 relative to
sovereign notes as investors shun all but the safest assets on
concern Europe’s debt crisis will impair global economic growth.  The extra return investors demand to hold states’ debt
instead of federal securities held at 74 basis points for a
second day yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.
Queensland,  Australia ’s largest state borrower, is paying 87
basis points more on its February 2020 bond compared with 10-
year sovereign securities, three basis points from the widest
premium since at least February 2010. The spread to Treasuries
for similar-rated U.S. municipal debt was 83 basis points last
week, about the most since April 2009.  State debt returns are trailing government bonds for a
third-straight month as investors seek refuge from rising
volatility, pushing Australian federal 10-year yields to 28-
month lows.  Fitch Ratings  changed its outlook on Queensland’s
debt to “negative” in July, citing the state’s slow budgetary
recovery in an environment that “largely remains challenging.”  “There has been a preference from most buyers for
Australian government bonds in this uncertainty,” said Greg Stock, a  money manager  who helps oversee A$7 billion ($7.3
billion) in fixed-income assets at Perpetual Ltd. in Sydney.
“The large state issuers need a range of investors to be buying,
and offshore buyers have probably been more defensive of late
while domestic investors have been waiting to see where spreads
between government and state debt end up given the volatility.”  Offshore Holdings  Bonds sold by the nation’s six states and the Northern
Territory have returned 2.3 percent in August, including
reinvested interest, compared with 3.1 percent for national debt,
Merrill Lynch indexes show. Deutsche Bank AG and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc said this month notes issued by regional
authorities may offer investors longer-term gains.  They provided better returns than federal securities
between December and May, the longest winning streak since 1999,
as the  Australian Prudential Regulation Authority  said Feb. 28
only so-called semi-government and sovereign bonds qualify as
liquid assets banks need to hold under new liquidity rules
coming into force by 2015.  Bank holdings of state debt rose to 20 percent of assets in
the first quarter, from 13 percent in early 2009, and overseas
investors held 40 percent of regional government debt, RBS said
in a research note on Aug. 17. Data from the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia and the statistics bureau show non-residents held 73
percent of outstanding government borrowings in that period.  Bond Rally  Benchmark 10-year government bond yields fell 49 basis
points in August to 4.31 percent, or 221 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries. The yield is set to fall for an
eighth-straight month, the longest stretch since the period
ending May 1991.  Yields on New South Wales’ May 2020 security declined 38
basis points this month to 4.98 percent, a spread of 67.5 basis
points to Australia’s 10-year yield. Victoria offers 4.98
percent on its June 2020 note, down from 5.33 on July 29. Both
states are rated AAA by  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors
Service.  “The current wide levels in semi-governments is more a
reflection of recent market instability and the resultant
reduction in liquidity as opposed to fundamentals,” wrote Skye Masters, an interest rate strategist at Royal Bank of  Scotland 
in Sydney. “As a medium-term trade, current levels offer a
great entry point.”  Sovereign Debt  Australia’s states have A$179.4 billion in bonds
outstanding, compared with the federal government’s A$185.5
billion, according to Bloomberg data. The semi-government debt
includes some securities under an Australian federal government
guarantee announced in 2009 after borrowing costs for the states
soared amid the global financial crisis.  Apart from the states, highly rated foreign issuers such as
the World Bank Group,  European Investment Bank  and German
development agency Landwirtschaftliche Rentenbank also borrow in
Australian dollars. Some buyers of semi-government debt are
likely to compare returns on the bonds against debt issued by
such supra-nationals and agencies, in addition to the level of
sovereign yields, Deutsche Bank said in an Aug. 19 report.  Yields on a Merrill Lynch index tracking bonds of the
states and foreign issuers was at 78 basis points more than
sovereign debt on Aug. 22, matching the most since June 2009.  Global Slowdown  Investor preference for sovereign debt has increased amid
concern global growth is slowing. The U.S. and  Europe  are
“dangerously close to recession,” Morgan Stanley analysts
wrote in a report Aug. 18.  “Recent policy errors, especially Europe’s slow and
insufficient response to the sovereign crisis and the drama
around lifting the U.S. debt ceiling, have weighed down on
financial markets,” the report said. The firm cut its global
growth forecast to 3.9 percent this year, from 4.2 percent.  Against this backdrop, it “isn’t all that startling” that
state debt has lagged federal notes, wrote  David Plank , the
Sydney-based head of research at Deutsche Bank. “It can be seen
as consistent with the repricing of different AAA rated
buckets.”  Australia’s central bank forecast Aug. 5 that growth in
2011 will average 2 percent while gross domestic product will
accelerate 4.5 percent in 2012.  Job Losses  The RBA may have to lower the developed world’s highest
benchmark interest rate by November as Australia faces as many
as 100,000 job losses, Bank of America Merrill Lynch strategists
said. The  unemployment rate  may rise to 6 percent by March from
5.1 percent last month, analysts led by Tim Rocks in Sydney
wrote in a report last week.  The central bank will lower the overnight cash-rate target
by at least one percentage point by year-end from its current
4.75 percent, according to contracts traded on the  Sydney
Futures Exchange .  BlueScope Steel Ltd., Australia’s largest steelmaker,
yesterday said it will stop exports and shed about 1,000 jobs
after reporting a second-half loss because of a record-high
Australian dollar, higher costs and lower prices.  The so-called Aussie, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, climbed 17 percent over the past year and reached
$1.1081 on July 27, the most since exchange controls were
scrapped in 1983. The currency traded at $1.0403 as of 12:25 p.m.
in Sydney.  Aussie Dollar  Government bonds  in Australia provided a 10 percent return
this year, the best performance among 20 developed markets
tracked by Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts Australia’s gross
government borrowings will reach 22 percent of the economy in
2015, giving it the second-smallest debt burden among developed
nations after  Estonia ’s 5.2 percent. The U.S.’s obligations will
swell to 109 percent of gross domestic product and  Germany ’s
will be at 74 percent, the IMF data show.  Perpetual’s Stock said he is now buying state bonds,
preferring to hold federal-government-guaranteed Queensland debt
and also state-backed New South Wales and Victoria securities.
The Perpetual Active Fixed Interest fund returned 1.73 percent
in July, he said, outpacing UBS AG’s Composite Bond Index of
government, semi-government, supranational and corporate notes.  Of 28 funds in a Morningstar Inc. ranking that measures
performance against UBS’s benchmark index, 24 had returns below
the index’s 1.67 percent gain in July, the data provider’s
figures show.  “I’ve gone from a heavy weighting toward government bonds
to slowing allocating to the state sector,” Stock said,
referring to holdings in non-corporate debt. “There is value
here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  