-- 
U.K. Stocks Gain; Randgold, Fresnillo Climb on Metals Prices

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-08-22T15:53:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/stocks-gain-randgold-fresnillo-climb-on-metals-prices-burberry-declines.html
U.K. stocks advanced, snapping a
three-day losing streak, as gains in basic resources shares
fueled by rising metals prices offset growing concern that
global economic recovery is stalling.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  and  Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  increased as gold
and silver prices rose. Petrofac Plc climbed after saying it
will deliver profit growth of at least 15 percent this year.  The FTSE 100 rose 54.54, or 1.1 percent, to 5,095.30 at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London . The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  gained 1
percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 0.8 percent.  “You’ve got the gold and silver play coming in,” said
Will Hedden, a sales trader at IG Index in London. “Petrofac
also is gaining and those sectors are pulling up peers. It looks
like a relief rally.”  The FTSE lost 5.3 percent last week, extending its selloff
from the end of June to 15 percent. More than $7 trillion has
been wiped off global equity markets since July 26 as  Europe ’s
debt crisis spilled into Italy and Spain and the U.S. had its
credit rating cut by S&P.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  attempted to shut the door
on common euro-area bonds as a means to solve the debt crisis,
saying that she won’t let financial markets dictate policy.
Speaking in an interview with ZDF television from the
chancellery in Berlin yesterday, she said bringing in euro bonds
at this time would further undermine economic stability.  Randgold, a miner of the metal in West Africa, advanced 3.9
percent to 6,870 pence. Fresnillo, the world’s largest primary
silver producer, added 3.5 percent to 2,039 pence. Gold rallied
for a sixth day to an all-time high. Silver in  New York  rose to
the highest price since May 3.  Gold Climb  Gold may climb the most in more than three decades this
year as investors and central banks boost their holdings on
concern about a slowdown in global growth.  Gold for immediate delivery may reach $2,000 an ounce by
the yearend, extending this year’s gain to 41 percent, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 13 traders and
analysts at a conference in Kovalam in South India on Aug. 20.  Petrofac gained 3.7 percent to 1,211 pence. Chief Executive
Officer Ayman Asfari said the oil and gas engineer is on course
to deliver like-for-like net profit growth of at least 15
percent this year.  Energy shares gained amid speculation the civil war in
Libya may be drawing to a close. Stocks including  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s largest oil company, gained after rebel
fighters reached the capital Tripoli. The overthrow of Muammar
Qaddafi’s government may allow oil producers to start fields
closed by the civil war.  Shell increased 1.9 percent to 1,919 pence.  IG Sales  IG Group Holdings Plc (IGG)  climbed 4 percent to 409.4 pence
after the owner of the IG Index financial spread-betting brand
said sales for the first quarter may increase by 19 percent as
more people place bets because of recent market swings. Revenue
is expected to rise to more than 94 million pounds ($155
million) for the quarter ending Aug. 31, from 79.1 million
pounds a year earlier.  ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker of trades between
banks, gained 3.8 percent to 425 pence.  Amlin Plc (AML)  lost 3.8 percent to 310.5 pence. The biggest
Lloyd’s of London insurer by market value swung to a loss of
151.7 million pounds in the first half after record claims from
natural disasters in  Japan ,  New Zealand  and Australia.  Micro Focus International Plc (MCRO)  slid 3.4 percent to 254 pence
after the company said it terminated talks with possible
bidders. The U.K. software provider said it’s restarting a
program to buy back as many as 12.3 million shares under its
existing authority.  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR)  retreated 3.8 percent to 247.9 pence. The
Indian energy company said it would take longer than expected to
start up new  power plants  and receive regulatory approval on
coal projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  