-- 
Strauss-Kahn Accuser’s Lies Prompt Prosecutors to Dismiss Assault Charges

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h ,   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-23T15:13:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/strauss-kahn-charges-should-be-dismissed-in-attack-case-prosecutors-say.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former
International Monetary Fund chief accused of sexually assaulting
a hotel maid, shouldn’t be tried because his accuser told too
many lies about the alleged attack, Manhattan prosecutors said.  The housekeeper, Nafissatou Diallo, made numerous false
statements and gave prosecutors and a grand jury
“irreconcilable accounts” about events immediately after the
encounter, leaving investigators unable to determine what
actually occurred, prosecutors from the office of District
Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. said in a motion filed yesterday
seeking dismissal of the charges.  “If after a careful assessment of the facts, the
prosecutor is not convinced that a defendant is guilty beyond a
reasonable doubt, he or she must decline to proceed,” assistant
district attorneys Joan Illuzzi-Orbon and John McConnell said in
the filing. “While an abiding concern for victims of crime is
an essential attribute for every prosecutor working in the
office, that concern cannot eclipse our obligation to act only
on the evidence and the facts.”  Strauss-Kahn, 62, arrested in May after Diallo told police
he attacked her when she came to clean his suite at the Sofitel
in midtown  Manhattan , may now be able to return home to France,
where investigators are probing allegations that he tried to
rape French writer Tristane Banon eight years ago, a claim he
has denied. He will also have to defend a civil suit Diallo
filed in New York state court seeking unspecified damages.  ‘Grateful’  “We have maintained from the beginning of this case that
our client is innocent,” Strauss-Kahn’s U.S. lawyers, William Taylor III and  Benjamin Brafman , said in a statement. “There
were many reasons to believe that Mr. Strauss-Kahn’s accuser was
not credible. Mr. Strauss-Kahn and his family are grateful that
the district attorney’s office took our concerns seriously.”  A status hearing in the criminal case is scheduled for this
morning before New York State Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus
in Manhattan.  Douglas Wigdor, a lawyer for Diallo, said today that there
was a “mountain of physical evidence” to back up her version
of events and his client will pursue a civil lawsuit.  ‘Chilling Effect’  There is “no other plausible explanation for what happened
in a nine-minute sexual encounter” than assault, Wigdor said at
a Paris press conference. “This will have a chilling effect on
all victims” of sexual assault.  Obus rejected a request from another Diallo lawyer,  Kenneth Thompson  to replace Vance with a special prosecutor in the case.  “Cyrus Vance has denied the right of a woman to get
justice in a rape case,” Thompson told reporters yesterday
before the Obus ruling. “He has not only turned his back on
this innocent victim, but he has also turned his back on the
forensic, medical and other physical evidence in this case.”  Yesterday’s filing is the culmination of a probe of both
the accuser and accused that Vance vowed to undertake last month
“without fear or favor” after facts emerged that his office
said undermined Diallo’s credibility.  French officials and intellectuals had called the handling
of the case a rush to judgment, with former Culture Minister
Jacques Lang calling Strauss-Kahn’s arrest and charging “a
lynching.”  ‘Tough Call’  New York defense lawyers took a different view. The initial
decision to charge Strauss-Kahn was the correct one, given the
evidence available at the time, the nature of the crime and the
flight risk presented by Strauss-Kahn, a wealthy foreign
national, lawyers including Gerald Shargel said.  “No prosecutor likes to admit making a mistake,” said
Gordon Mehler, a former federal prosecutor in  Brooklyn  who has
been a criminal defense lawyer for more than a decade. “But
that’s what Cy Vance has to do: Make a tough call and deal with
the consequences.”  Prosecutors also have a duty to disclose information that
could help exonerate the accused, Mehler said in an interview
after Vance’s office moved to drop the charges.  “There’s an enormous inequity in power between a
prosecutor and a defendant, even a wealthy one like Dominique
Strauss-Kahn,” he said. “It makes sense that the standard for
going forward in bringing someone to trial is a belief by the
prosecutors that they can establish guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt.”  Political Reaction  Strauss-Kahn was a leading contender to run for president
of  France  before his arrest. Other Socialist candidates for his
party’s nomination said it was for him to decide whether to
return to politics.  “I would like to leave it to him to express his views”
his future political role,  Martine Aubry , a candidate for the
Socialist Party’s presidential nomination, said today on France
Info.  Evidence collected by investigators established that
Strauss-Kahn engaged in “a hurried sexual encounter” with the
maid, “but it does not independently establish her claim of a
forcible, nonconsensual encounter,” prosecutors said in
yesterday’s filing. DNA from Strauss-Kahn found on Diallo’s
pantyhose wasn’t enough to controvert or confirm that the
defendant had groped her directly, prosecutors said.  Three Different Accounts  Prosecutors said Diallo gave three different accounts of
what happened immediately after the encounter at the Sofitel,
and admitted to lying to the grand jury, something defense
lawyers could have used against her at a criminal trial.
Prosecutors said she told investigators a fictitious tale,
“with great emotion and conviction,” about how she was gang-
raped by soldiers in her native  Guinea .  “In a case where a complainant is accusing a defendant of
a sexual assault, the fact that she has given a prior false
account of a different sexual assault is highly relevant,” the
prosecutors said.  They said Diallo also repeatedly asserted that she wouldn’t
try to make money off of the case, only to sue Strauss-Kahn this
month. She failed to disclose $60,000 in cash deposits made into
her checking account by individuals in four different states,
and she lied about her job to obtain low-income housing,
prosecutors said.  “If we do not believe her beyond a reasonable doubt, we
cannot ask a jury to do so,” prosecutors said.  The criminal case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-02526, New
York State Supreme Court (New York County); the civil case is
Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065, New York State Supreme Court
(Bronx County).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  