-- 
Strauss-Kahn’s Fate May Be Revealed at Prosecutor Meeting With His Accuser

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-08-22T18:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/strauss-kahn-s-fate-may-be-revealed-at-prosecutor-meeting-with-his-accuser.html
Former International Monetary Fund
chief  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who may learn today that some or
all of the criminal charges against him have been dropped, still
could face liability in civil court.  The office of Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.
has invited Nafissatou Diallo, the hotel maid who accused
Strauss-Kahn of sexual assault and attempted rape, to a meeting
to preview tomorrow’s status hearing in the case, according to
her lawyers. The  New York  Times, citing an unidentified person
briefed on the matter, said Vance has decided to ask a judge to
dismiss the charges.  Diallo sued Strauss-Kahn this month in New York state court
in the Bronx, alleging “violent and deplorable acts” occurred
May 14 in his suite in the Sofitel, a midtown  Manhattan  hotel.
She seeks unspecified monetary damages. Strauss-Kahn has pleaded
not guilty to the criminal charges.  In a New York state criminal case, prosecutors have to
convince a jury of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. In a civil
trial, the jury may find liability based on a preponderance of
the evidence, a less stringent standard. A civil jury can also
infer that a defendant who refuses to testify, citing his right
not to incriminate himself, has something to hide.  ‘Presumption’  “He’s going to have to answer the questions, and if he
refuses to answer the questions, there will be a presumption
made against him,” Thomas Curran, a former New York prosecutor
and now a lawyer at Peckar & Abramson, said in an interview.
“The other option is for him to just not show up to the civil
case. And then it becomes a damage quest.”  In the case of  O.J. Simpson , the former pro football star
accused of killing his ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson and another
person, a civil jury found him liable for the deaths after
another jury acquitted him of murder in the criminal case.  “If there is a dismissal in the criminal case here, it’s
the functional equivalent of the acquittal in the O.J. Simpson
case,” said Paul Callan, who represented Nicole Brown Simpson’s
estate. “Simpson was found liable, or the civil equivalent of
guilty, and the jury assessed $35.5 million in damages.”  Callan said Strauss-Kahn could meet a similar fate in the
Bronx, where the juries are “notorious for awarding high
amounts of damages, particularly when a member of a minority
group has been damaged by someone like Strauss-Kahn, someone in
a position of power and authority.”  Vance Plan  One of Diallo’s lawyers,  Kenneth Thompson , told the New
York Times that he sees the invitation to today’s meeting as
part of a Vance plan to drop some or all of the charges.
Thompson didn’t return a call or e-mail from Bloomberg News for
comment on that remark.  Vance’s spokeswoman,  Erin Duggan , declined to say whether
any charges would be dismissed or to comment on today’s meeting
with Diallo.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was taken off an Air France flight at
 John F. Kennedy International Airport  in Queens, New York, on
May 14, hours after Diallo accused him of trying to rape her in
his suite at the Sofitel. He resigned from the IMF on May 19.  Strauss-Kahn, once a potential contender for the presidency
of  France , was jailed and later placed under house arrest on $1
million bail and a $5 million bond. He was released from home
confinement on July 1 after prosecutors told New York State
Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus of Diallo’s “substantial
credibility issues.”  Diallo, who sought political asylum in the U.S., told
prosecutors in June that she had lied to immigration authorities
about a gang rape in  Guinea . She also changed her story about
what she did right after the alleged attack in the Sofitel.  Credible Account  Before that, police said Diallo had given a credible
account of the hotel incident and that they had found forensic
evidence supporting her allegation.  Callan, also a former prosecutor, said the consensus among
most of his colleagues was that Vance would move to dismiss.
Prosecutors will make such a recommendation if newly discovered
information leads them to decide that there are severe problems
with a case and that a jury wouldn’t convict, Callan said.  Vance could make an oral application before the court or a
detailed written submission, specifying why dismissal is
warranted and explaining that the evidence isn’t sufficient to
convict, Callan said. Obus could dismiss the case from the
bench, he said.  “I don’t think Vance is going to say Strauss-Kahn is
innocent,” said Callan, adding that a minority of his
colleagues predict Vance will pursue the case.  July Hearing  Benjamin Brafman , Strauss-Kahn’s lawyer, said after the
July 1 hearing at which Diallo’s lies were disclosed that he
thought all of the charges would eventually be dismissed. He
declined to comment on whether the case might be dismissed
tomorrow or later.  Vance, 57, said after the July 1 session that he would
investigate both sides in deciding what to do in light of the
lies and the evidence.  Thompson, 45, said Diallo wouldn’t be the first victim of
an attack to utter an untruth. As a federal prosecutor in
 Brooklyn , New York, Thompson gave the opening argument in the
case of Abner Louima, a Haitian immigrant who was sodomized in
1997 with a wooden stick inside a police station.  Louima first claimed police officers had said, “It’s
Giuliani time!” as one shoved the stick up his rectum, a
reference to the mayor at the time,  Rudolph Giuliani . Louima
later admitted no one had said that.  Forensic Evidence  Thompson has argued that nothing his client has said
undercuts her claim that Strauss-Kahn sexually assaulted her. He
said the evidence supporting her claims includes hospital photos
of a vaginal bruise he said she suffered when Strauss-Kahn
grabbed her. The forensic evidence is consistent with her
account of the attack, he said.  Diallo said she declared a friend’s child as a dependent on
her tax returns and misrepresented her income to maintain her
housing, prosecutors told Strauss-Kahn’s defense lawyers.  Prosecutors also disclosed that she changed her story about
what happened immediately after the incident in the Sofitel.
Although Diallo told the grand jury she fled to a main hallway
after the attack, she later said she went to clean a nearby room
before returning to Strauss-Kahn’s suite -- all before reporting
the incident, according to a letter prosecutors sent Strauss-
Kahn’s lawyers.  A New York Times report cited a phone call in which she
told a friend who was jailed in  Arizona  on drug charges: “Don’t
worry. This guy has money. I know what I’m doing.” The
statement came from a translated summary of a recording of the
call.  ‘Merged Together’  After listening to the original conversation, which was
conducted in Diallo’s native Fulani, on July 27, Thompson told
reporters that the comments had been “merged together” and
mischaracterized.  Thompson has pushed back in other ways. He asked Vance on
July 6 to recuse himself from the case, accusing prosecutors of
“repeated and damaging leaks to the media.” He sued  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s New York Post on Diallo’s behalf after it published a
story calling her a prostitute.  Thompson filed court papers in Manhattan today asking a
judge to replace Vance with a special prosecutor.  “Because of the DA’s actions, abuse of confidence, unfair
treatment, bias and prejudices, the DA is unfit to try this
case,” Diallo’s lawyer Kenneth Thompson said in the papers.  Baseless Attack  News Corp.’s Wall Street Journal reported last week that
New York prosecutors were investigating whether Thompson said in
June that he would derail the criminal case if he came to terms
with Strauss-Kahn in a civil settlement.  “The allegation against me is absolutely false,” Thompson
said in an e-mail. “It’s another baseless attack against Ms.
Diallo and her attorneys and designed to distract people from
the fact that Dominique Strauss-Kahn violently attacked and
sexually assaulted an innocent woman.”  The civil case is Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065, New
York State Supreme Court (Bronx County); the criminal case is
People v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-02526, New York State Supreme Court
(New York County).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  