-- 
Strauss-Kahn Accuser’s Lawyer Asks for Special Prosecutor to Replace Vance

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-22T22:16:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/strauss-kahn-accuser-s-lawyer-asks-for-special-prosecutor-to-replace-vance.html
Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. should be replaced by a special prosecutor in the case
of  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the lawyer for the hotel housekeeper
who accused him of sexual assault told a judge.  Vance has sabotaged the prosecution of the former
International Monetary Fund chief, who in May was charged with
assaulting and attempting to rape hotel maid Nafissatou Diallo,
her lawyer,  Kenneth Thompson , said today in court papers.  Vance’s office asked Justice Michael Obus in a filing today
in New York state court to dismiss the charges against Strauss-
Kahn, saying prosecutors no longer believed Diallo’s “version
of events beyond a reasonable doubt whatever the truth may be
about the encounter between the complainant and the defendant.”  Thompson argued in his filing that outside prosecutor
should handle the case because Vance’s office has “victimized”
his client, subjected her to verbal abuse, and appears to have
leaked damaging and false information to the press about her
credibility.  “The DA’s handling of the prosecution against defendant
Strauss-Kahn has been inadequate and troubling,” Thompson said.  Prosecutors failed to question Strauss-Kahn for several
hours after he was taken into custody by  New York  authorities,
Thompson said.  “As rape and sexual assault victims around the world watch
the DA methodically destroy the criminal case it is charged with
prosecuting, it is incumbent upon this court to relieve the DA
of its prosecutorial duties in this case and appoint a special
prosecutor,” he said.  A hearing in the case is scheduled for tomorrow.  ‘Half a Brain’  Assistant District Attorney Joan Illuzzi-Orbon said June 9
she didn’t find Diallo credible, Thompson said. “No one with
half a brain would ever put her on the stand,” he quoted the
prosecutor as saying. Another prosecutor that day screamed at
Diallo within earshot of her daughter, he said.  A spokeswoman for Vance’s office declined to comment on
Thompson’s special-prosecutor request.  Diallo sued Strauss-Kahn this month in New York state court
in the Bronx, alleging that “violent and deplorable acts”
occurred May 14 in his suite in the Sofitel, a midtown Manhattan
hotel. She seeks unspecified monetary damages. Strauss-Kahn
pleaded not guilty to the criminal charges.  Thompson told the New York Times that he sees the
invitation to today’s meeting as part of a Vance plan to drop
some or all of the charges, the newspaper reported.  Taken From Plane  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was taken off an Air  France  flight at
 John F. Kennedy International Airport  in Queens, New York, hours
after Diallo accused him of trying to rape her in his suite. He
resigned from the IMF on May 19.  Strauss-Kahn, once a potential contender for the presidency
of France, was jailed and later placed under house arrest on
$1 million bail and a $5 million bond. He was released from home
confinement on July 1 after prosecutors told Obus that Diallo
raised “substantial credibility issues.”  Diallo told prosecutors that she lied to immigration
authorities about a gang rape in  Guinea  as she sought political
asylum in the U.S., the prosecutors said. She also changed her
story about what she did immediately after the alleged attack in
the Sofitel, they said.  The police previously said Diallo gave a credible account
of the hotel incident and that they had found forensic evidence
supporting her allegation.  Defense Lawyer  Benjamin Brafman , Strauss-Kahn’s lawyer, said after the
July 1 hearing at which Diallo’s lies were disclosed that he
thought the charges would be dismissed.  “We have maintained from the beginning of this case that
our client is innocent,” Brafman and a second Strauss-Kahn
lawyer, Bill Taylor, said today in a statement. “There were
many reasons to believe that Mr. Strauss-Kahn’s accuser was not
credible.”  Vance, 57, said after the July 1 session that he would
investigate both sides in deciding what to do in light of the
lies and the evidence.  The civil case is Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065/2011,
New York State Supreme Court, Bronx County (the Bronx). The
criminal case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-02526, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  