-- 
Swiss Franc Depreciates Amid Speculation SNB May Set Exchange-Rate Target

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-08-22T15:39:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/swiss-franc-weakens-amid-speculation-snb-may-set-exchange-rate-target.html
Switzerland ’s franc weakened against
most of its major counterparts amid speculation the central bank
will take further steps to weaken the currency.  The franc extended two weeks of losses against the dollar
and fell the most against  New Zealand ’s currency and Swedish
krona. The cabinet expects the  Swiss National Bank  to set an
exchange-rate target of at least 1.2 francs per euro,
SonntagsZeitung reported, without saying where it got the
information. An “energetic” approach is needed to curb the
rise of the franc, Swiss President Micheline Calmy-Rey said.  “The risk of further measures should keep Swiss franc
bulls wary at these levels,” said Mansoor Mohi-uddin, global
head of currency strategy in  Singapore  at UBS AG, the world’s
third-largest currency trader.  The franc depreciated to 78.64 centimes per dollar at 4:32
p.m. in  London  from 78.51 centimes last week. It fell to 1.1311
from 1.1303, and dropped to 1.2942 per pound from 1.2924.  The currency has strengthened 14 percent this year, the
best performer among a basket of foreign exchange from 10
developed markets according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes.  The franc’s strength, which is making Swiss products more
expensive abroad, prompted the central bank to assess “the
whole range of options” to prevent its gain after it rose to a
record against the euro this month.  ‘Clearly Overvalued’  The government supports the “expansive monetary policy”
being pursued by the Swiss central bank, Calmy-Rey said in a
speech today in Lucerne, Switzerland. The cabinet also sees the
Swiss franc as “clearly overvalued,” she said.  The SNB earlier this month cut borrowing costs to zero and
increased the amount of money that banks can convert immediately
to cash almost sevenfold. Policy makers also left the door open
for additional measures to stem the franc’s record-breaking
rally. Governing board member Thomas Jordan said Aug. 11 the
central bank was assessing several options to prevent the franc
from appreciating.  The franc remains 39 percent overvalued against the euro,
based on purchasing power parity as calculated by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  The SNB is unlikely to intervene to weaken the franc in the
market, or to set an  exchange rate  of the currency to the euro,
said  Geoff Kendrick , head of European currency strategy at
Nomura International Plc in London.  ‘Keep Talking’  “I don’t expect the SNB to come in an intervene, but I
expect them to keep talking because that seems to be working
quite nicely for them,” Kendrick told Francine Lacqua on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” program. “The talk of
fixing the exchange rate also looks somewhat premature at this
point. The SNB will continue to do what they are doing and
that’s to make the franc expensive to hold.”  Swiss bonds declined for a second day as stock gains damped
demand for the safest assets.  The 10-year yield rose five basis points to 0.96 percent,
after falling to 0.85 percent last week, the lowest since
Bloomberg began collecting data on the securities in 1994. The
two-year yield climbed three basis points to to 0.03 percent,
after falling into a negative territory in the past three days.  The spread between yields on two- and 10-year notes widened
one basis point to 93 basis points, within two basis points of
the narrowest since September, as investors favor longer
maturities on speculation the strong franc will damp growth. The
12-month average is 121 basis points.  Swiss  government bonds  handed investors a 6.4 percent
return this year, beating a 5.9 percent gain from German bonds,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  