-- 
Syngenta Sues Bunge for Refusal to Accept Modified Corn

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-22T17:40:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/syngenta-sues-bunge-over-claims-it-refuses-to-accept-bioengineered-corn.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s largest
maker of agricultural chemicals, sued a unit of  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  over
claims it’s illegally refusing to accept corn produced from the
company’s bioengineered seeds.  Bunge, which operates a network of grain elevators and
receiving stations, posted a notice on its website and at
several locations that it is “unable to accept” delivery of
corn or soybeans produced by Syngenta’s Agrisure Viptera seeds
and another product made by DuPont Co., according to the
complaint. Bunge said in the notice that the seed products
haven’t received international approval from major export
destinations, according to the complaint filed in federal court
in Sioux City, Iowa.  The product complies with all U.S. regulatory requirements,
Syngenta said today in a statement.  “When a product has been legally approved, growers should
be able to use that technology without subsequently being
subjected to arbitrary actions,”  David Morgan , president of
Syngenta Seeds Inc., said today in the statement.  Viptera, which received U.S. regulatory approval last year,
is genetically modified to combat damaging insects such as corn
earworm and fall armyworm. The technology has been approved for
cultivation in Canada, Argentina and Brazil, and for import in
Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Mexico,  New Zealand , the
Philippines, Korea and Taiwan, Syngenta said in its statement.
Approval is pending in China and is expected early 2012, the
company said.  Bunge spokeswoman Deb Seidel didn’t immediately return a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment on the complaint.  The case is Syngenta Seeds Inc. v. Bunge North America
Inc., U.S. District Court Northern District of  Iowa  Western
Division (Sioux City)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  