-- 
Syrian Forces Kill Six Protesters as Assad Rejects Western Call to Leave

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-22T16:20:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/syrian-forces-kill-two-protesters-as-assad-rejects-call-to-leave.html
Syrian security forces killed at
least eight protesters since yesterday as thousands took to the
streets calling for President Bashar al-Assad to bow to demands,
echoed by the U.S. and  Europe , to quit office.  Two protesters were shot dead today during demonstrations
by as many as 5,000 people in Homs, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the
Arab Organization for Human Rights, and Ammar Qurabi of the
National Organization for Human Rights in Syria said by phone. A
United Nations team visited Homs as part of a four-day mission
to assess Syria’s humanitarian situation.  At least six protesters died yesterday in the governorates
of Hama, Homs, Aleppo and the southern area of Daraa, where
rallies against Assad’s rule began more than five months ago,
Merhi and Qurabi said. Demonstrators also gathered yesterday in
suburbs of the capital, Damascus, where gunfire erupted and the
authorities carried out “wide-scale arrests,” Merhi said.  Assad, in an interview on state television from Damascus
yesterday, rejected U.S. and European demands to step down and
pledged to schedule parliamentary elections by February and
review the constitution. He called the U.S. and European nations
“colonialist” powers that want to violate  Syria ’s sovereignty.  “We don’t permit any country in the world, near or far, to
interfere,” Assad said. “Any military action against Syria
will have many more implications than they can bear.”  Freeze Assets  The U.S., Britain and  France  are preparing to ask the UN
Security Council this week to freeze the foreign financial
assets of Assad, a Western diplomat said. The measure would also
bar foreign travel by the Syrian leader and call for an arms
embargo on Syria, the diplomat said.  The three nations are planning to introduce the draft
resolution that targets Assad and about five other government
and military leaders, according to the diplomat, who spoke on
condition of not being identified because the text hasn’t been
made public.  The latest developments follow the killing of 40 protesters
on Aug. 19 in a suburb of Damascus, Homs and Daraa and another
15 people the following day in Homs, according to Merhi and
Qurabi. Assad told UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on Aug. 18
that security operations had stopped.  “It’s troubling that he has not kept his word,” Ban told
reporters today in  New York .  U.S. President  Barack Obama , in a coordinated move with
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , French President Nicolas Sarkozy, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and European Union
foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton , issued a statement on
Aug. 18 saying Assad should leave and let Syrians chart their
own political future.  Broaden Sanctions  The EU followed a day later with an agreement to broaden
sanctions against the regime, including preparing for a ban on
the import of Syrian  crude oil  into the bloc.  Obama’s declaration was his first explicit call for Assad
to give up power since the uprising started. He also signed an
executive order freezing any Syrian government assets in the
U.S. and banning the import of petroleum products of Syrian
origin.  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait  and Bahrain withdrew their
ambassadors from Syria earlier this month.  Faced with the most serious threat to his family’s 40-year
rule, Assad has deployed tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and
helicopters to crush the uprising that began after revolts
ousted the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  and sparked a conflict
in  Libya .  Death Toll  At least 2,400 people have been killed since the protests
started, according to Merhi’s and Qurabi’s organizations. The UN
puts the death toll at more than 2,200. At least 500 members of
the security forces have died, the government has said.  Assad, who succeeded his father as president after his
death in 2000, said security has improved and that Syrian forces
had foiled efforts to undermine Syria. He has blamed the
protests on foreign-inspired plots. Anyone proven to have
committed an offense against a Syrian citizen, whether civilian
or military, will be held accountable, he said yesterday.  “Assad has lost credibility with the U.S., the Arab states
and the Europeans,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at
the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military
Analysis, said by phone yesterday. “His commitment to reform is
all talk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 