-- 
U.K. Water Providers Valued Amid Market Plunge, Analysts Say

-- B y   B e n   E d w a r d s   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-08-22T16:03:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/u-k-water-utilities-may-offer-value-after-markets-collapse-analysts-say.html
Severn Trent Plc (SVT) ,  Pennon Group Plc (PNN) 
and United Utilities Plc are offering refuge to investors after
the sell-off in global stock markets because the U.K. water
providers have stable, inflation-linked earnings, analysts say.  European stocks have plunged, sending the benchmark Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index 19 percent lower this year as investors showed
concern that U.S. economic growth is faltering and Europe’s debt
crisis is worsening. In contrast, United Utilities shares fell 2
percent and Severn Trent dropped 3 percent.  British water companies are regulated by the Water Services
Regulation Authority, which sets the price they can charge
consumers every five years based on a formula linked to
inflation, giving investors some protection against rising
prices and recession. The benchmark 10-year gilt yield hit a
record low on Aug. 18.  “If you think that returns in the U.K. are stable and you
think that you’ve got a currency that’s cheap, why would you
want to buy bonds, if you can buy one of these regulated
networks on a higher yield?” said Mark Freshney, an analyst at
Credit Suisse in  London . “Equity markets appear cheap relative
to bond markets and what you’re seeing is people looking around
that see U.K. returns are attractive.”  Freshney has an “outperform” rating on Pennon and United
Utilities. He is “neutral” on Severn Trent.  Dividend Stream  While European electricity and gas providers have cut
dividend payments as fuel price inflation and government levies
have reduced earnings, U.K. water companies are seeking to
increase them by more than inflation.  Pennon aims to increase its dividend by 4 percent above
inflation every year through 2015. Severn Trent is committed to
a 3 percent increase above the U.K.’s Retail Price Index over
the same period, while United Utilities is targeting a 2 percent
rise. RPI remained at 5 percent in July, according to official
data published on Aug. 16.  “U.K. waters are the one safe haven among all the European
utility stocks and there is still healthy demand,” UniCredit
analyst Lueder Schumacker said in a telephone interview.
“They’re regulated, so they’re safe and predictable.”  Pennon shares rose 17.5 pence, or 2.8 percent, to 641 pence
in London. Severn Trent gained 28 pence to 1,435 pence. United
Utilities increased 9 pence to 580.5 pence.  Utilities Saddled  In  Italy ,  Germany  and Finland utilities are saddled by
government plans to impose levies. The industry also has to
invest heavily to meet the European Union’s renewable energy
targets while rising fuel price inflation is curbing consumer
demand for heating and power.  EON AG, Germany’s largest utility, has dropped 36 percent
this year and announced plans to reduce dividends this month.
RWE, the second-biggest, said on Aug. 9 that full-year recurrent
net income, the metric used to calculate dividend payments, will
be 35 percent lower in 2011.  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , this year’s biggest loser in the
STOXX 600 utilities index, has said dividends may be reduced in
2011. Power generator EDP-Energias de Portugal SA may also have
to reconsider its dividend if the country’s economy fails to
rebound, according to Deutsche Bank AG analysts.  The defensive appeal of utilities stocks may already be
reflected in share prices, according to strategists such as
Andrew Milligan at Standard Life Investments Ltd.  Slow Growth World  “If we are entering a slow growth world with limited
earnings or we’re entering an environment when we’re actually
going to see a recession for a couple of quarters until policy
makers respond, the more defensive stocks will do well,” said
Milligan, head of global strategy at Standard Life in Edinburgh,
in a telephone interview. “The difficulty is that story has
already been well priced in and therefore I would hardly say
they are value.”  An agreed bid to buy  Northumbrian Water Group Plc (NWG)  for 2.4
billion pounds ($3.9 billion) this month by  Cheung Kong
Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (1038)  has raised the possibility of the
three remaining listed water companies also becoming takeover
targets, analysts say.  CKI, controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing , said
in June it was considering a cash offer for Northumbrian,
sending shares of the Durham, England-based utility up 8
percent.  CKI, which led a group that bought Electricite de France
SA’s U.K. power networks for 5.8 billion pounds in July 2010,
agreed to pay 465 pence per share for Northumbrian Water, a
premium of 26 percent over the company’s closing share price on
June 23.  Infrastructure Funds  “It’s a one in four or five chance” that another U.K.
water company will be subject to a takeover bid, said  Peter
Atherton , an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in London. Infrastructure
funds still have money ready to invest and remain interested in
the industry, he said.  Atherton recommends investors “buy” all three stocks.  “There is a lot of speculation in the media at the moment
about water company takeovers,” Shaun Robinson, a spokesman for
United Utilities, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“We have not received any offers, and we’re not able to get
drawn into ‘what ifs’ and speculation. Our bottom line is always
to act in the best interests of our customers and
shareholders.”  Sara Evans , a spokeswoman for Pennon, said the Exeter-based
utility wouldn’t comment. Sonia Southern, a spokeswoman at
Severn Trent, said in an e-mail that the company was unable to
provide a comment on this occasion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Edwards in London at 
 bedwards35@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  