-- 
U.S. 30-Year Bond Rises on Speculation Data to Show Economy Is Slowing

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-08-22T03:47:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/u-s-30-year-bond-rises-on-speculation-data-to-show-economy-is-slowing.html
U.S. 30-year bonds rose, sending
yields toward the lowest level since 2009, before government
reports this week forecast to show companies reduced orders for
equipment and the economy grew slower than earlier reported.  The longest maturities, those most sensitive to inflation,
gained as the  U.S. economy  showed signs of faltering. Treasuries
due in 10 years and less fell on speculation yields that dropped
to record lows this month will deter investors when the
government sells $99 billion of notes starting tomorrow. The
extra yield investors demand to purchase 30-year bonds instead
of two-year notes narrowed to as low as 3.17 percentage points,
the least since September.  “The financial markets are whipping themselves up for a
fear of a double-dip” recession, said Roger Bridges, who
oversees the equivalent of $15.6 billion of debt as the Sydney-
based head of bonds at Tyndall Investment Management Ltd., a
unit of Japan’s Nikko Asset Management Co. “Treasuries are very
expensive. So long as this fear keeps on going, they will
continue” to be so.  Thirty-year yields declined one basis point to 3.38 percent
at 12:21 p.m. in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 3.75 percent security due in August 2041 rose 1/4,
or $2.50 per $1,000 face amount, to 107. The yield fell to 3.34
percent on Aug. 18, the least since January 2009.  Ten-year rates advanced two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.08 percent. The record low was 1.97
percent set Aug. 18.  Inflation Expectations  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was 2.01
percentage points. The spread was 1.96 percentage points on Aug.
18, the least since October. The five-year average is 2.06
percentage points.  Japan ’s 10-year yield was little changed at 0.985 percent,
versus this year’s low of 0.97 percent set  on Aug. 19.  U.S. bookings for durable goods excluding transportation
fell 0.5 percent in July after rising 0.4 percent in June,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The data is due for release on Aug. 24.  A report on Aug. 26 may show gross domestic product grew at
a 1.1 percent annual pace in the April-to-June quarter, down
from 1.3 percent estimated last month, a separate survey shows.
 New home sales  were probably unchanged in July from June,
figures may show tomorrow.  Record-low yields on U.S. Treasuries show traders expect
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will signal as soon as
this week that the central bank will begin a third round of so-
called quantitative easing to boost the economy, a scenario the
world’s biggest bond dealers said is unlikely.  Pricing in QE3  Barclays Plc said 10-year yields indicate traders have
priced in $500 billion to $600 billion of Treasury purchases by
the Fed. Citigroup Inc. said current rates can only be justified
by more central bank bond buying or assuming the economy will
shrink by 2 percent.  “The market is pricing in another round of large-scale
asset purchases, looking for confirmation possibly as early as
the Jackson Hole symposium” in  Wyoming  this week, Anshul Pradhan, a fixed-income research analyst at Barclays in  New
York , said in an interview last week. “The probability of that
is low. If the Chairman does disappoint, then there should be a
reversal in the outperformance of 10-year notes.”  Central bankers from around the world will meet in  Jackson
Hole  at an annual conference sponsored by the Fed Bank of  Kansas
City . Bernanke triggered financial rallies a year ago when he
said at the same gathering that the Fed was prepared to “do all
that it can” to ensure economic recovery and suggested it would
purchase more securities if growth slowed.  Bond Auctions  The government is scheduled to auction $35 billion of two-
year notes tomorrow, the same amount of five-year debt on Aug.
24 and $29 billion of seven-year debt on Aug. 25. Two-year
yields were little changed at 0.20 percent, versus the record of
0.16 percent set Aug. 9.  “Treasury yields will rise,” said Zeal Yin, who invests
in  U.S. government debt  for Taipei-based Shin Kong Life
Insurance Co.,  Taiwan ’s second-largest life insurer with the
equivalent of $41.4 billion in assets. “The recovery will be
slow” though the U.S. will avoid a recession, he said.  Shin Kong Life sold Treasuries last week, Yin said.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch, one of the 20 primary
dealers authorized to trade directly with the Fed, recommended
10-year notes as a strategy to contend with a possible U.S.
recession.  “A core long in 10-year Treasuries may be the best medium-
term strategy as events continue to unfold,” bank strategists
Ralph Axel, Bin Gao and  Adarsh Sinha  wrote to clients on Aug.
19. An investor who owns bonds has a so-called long position.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 