-- 
U.S. Tennis Player Kendrick Has Yearlong Drug Ban Reduced to Eight Months

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-08-22T16:22:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/u-s-tennis-player-kendrick-has-yearlong-drug-ban-reduced-to-eight-months.html
U.S. tennis player Robert Kendrick
had a yearlong suspension for taking a banned stimulant reduced
to eight months after an appeal before the Court of Arbitration
of Sport, the  International Tennis Federation  said.  Kendrick, 31, was suspended last month by the ITF for 12
months for taking methylhexaneamine during the French Open in
Paris on May 22. Kendrick, who was ranked 87th on the ATP World
Tour at the time, lost in the first round of the clay-court
Grand Slam event.  The ITF said last month that Kendrick had told the
antidoping authorities that the stimulant got into his system
“through ingestion of a capsule of Zija XM3, which he took to
combat jetlag,” and that the player “denied any intent to
enhance his performance as a result of taking this substance.”  Even though the London-based ITF said in July it accepted
the American’s account, he was still suspended for 12 months
ending at midnight on May 21, 2012, because he didn’t have a
valid therapeutic-use exemption for the substance. Each player
is responsible for whatever he or she ingests, the ITF said.  An appeal heard before the  Court of Arbitration for Sport 
has now reduced ban, meaning Kendrick will be able to play
professional tennis again beginning on Jan. 22, 2012, the ITF
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Kendrick still loses his French Open results, including 10
ATP World Tour ranking points and 15,000 euros ($21,571) in
prize money from his first-round loss. He is allowed to keep
3,905 euros earned at a grass-court event in ‘s-Hertogenbosch,
the Netherlands, in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  