-- 
Most U.S. Stocks Fall as Goldman Tumbles; Treasuries, Brent Drop

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-22T21:37:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/u-s-index-futures-fall-oil-drops-on-growth-concern-correct-.html
Most U.S. stocks fell as Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s drop in the last 15 minutes of trading wiped
out the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s rally. Treasuries fell on
speculation the Federal Reserve will announce a plan to
stimulate the economy, while  Brent crude  slid.  About 10 stocks fell for every nine that rose on U.S.
exchanges at 4 p.m. in New York. The  S&P 500  advanced less than
0.1 percent to 1,123.82, as financial shares lost 1.3 percent.
The yield on 10-year Treasury notes climbed four basis points.
The yen weakened from almost its postwar record against the
dollar. Brent oil slipped 0.3 percent after Libyan rebels swept
into Tripoli. Gold topped $1,900 an ounce for the first time.  The four-week rout in equities has wiped out more than $8
trillion in global stock values before central bankers from
around the world prepare to meet in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.
Record-low yields on U.S. Treasuries show traders expect Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke to signal a third round of
asset purchases on Aug. 26. Goldman Sachs fell 4.7 percent after
Reuters said Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  hired a
defense attorney.  “The market remains very nervous and I expect a great deal
of attention will be paid to Bernanke’s  Jackson Hole  address and
his analysis of economic prospects,”  Alan Gayle , a senior
strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in Richmond,
Virginia, which oversees about $48 billion, wrote in an e-mail.
“Valuations are quite reasonable in the stock market, but until
investors get a clearer sense of the potential downside risks
they will be reluctant to buy.”  Losing Streak  The S&P 500 has fallen 18 percent from an almost three-year
high on April 29. The decline through Aug. 8 drove the index to
a valuation of 12.2 times reported earnings, the lowest level
since March 2009. The MSCI World Index of stocks fell last week
for a fourth straight week as investors took flight after a
deadlock in the U.S. congress brought the government to the
brink of default, reports showed the world’s biggest economy is
slowing, and concern grew that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
will spread.  The benchmark index for American equities climbed as much
as 2 percent after the market open today, only to erase that
gain during morning trading. The slide in the S&P 500 tracked
losses in Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX) , which fell 2.1 percent from the
open of U.S. exchanges to close down 0.1 percent, even as the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index rallied 0.8 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The S&P 500 rallied again before erasing that
advance in the last half hour of trading.  Jackson Hole Meeting  The Stoxx 600 rebounded from a two year-low. The index has
plunged 17 percent in the past four weeks. Eni SpA, the Italian
oil company that was the biggest foreign producer in  Libya ,
gained 6.3 percent today. Total SA, France’s largest oil
company, climbed 2.3 percent.  Equity volatility gauges in the U.S. and Europe decreased
amid optimism over a Fed move to stimulate the economy. The VIX
index, which measures S&P’s 500 Index options prices, fell 1.4
percent to 42.44. Europe’s VStoxx Index, which measures prices
for Euro Stoxx 50 Index contracts, dropped 1.5 percent to close
at 46.59 after earlier falling as much as 8 percent.  Central bankers from around the world will meet in Jackson
Hole at an annual conference sponsored by the  Federal Reserve 
Bank of  Kansas City . That’s the same place where Bernanke
triggered financial rallies a year ago when he said the Fed was
prepared to “do all that it can” to ensure economic recovery
and suggested it would purchase more securities if growth
slowed. Bernanke’s appearance a year later comes as U.S.
manufacturing weakens, consumer confidence tumbles and the
 unemployment rate  holds above 9 percent.  ‘Hurdle Remains Pretty High’  “Eyes are clearly pointing to Bernanke’s speech on
Friday,” Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at
Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages
$54 billion, said in a telephone interview. “People are of the
belief that there’s an increasing likelihood of a new
quantitative easing program. We hold no expectation that we’re
going to see that. The hurdle remains pretty high. I’m a little
concerned that if we get some rally on that expectation and it
doesn’t come through that the equity market would be set for a
decline.”  At a time when U.S. equities have lost $2.9 trillion in
market value, stock analysts are twice as bullish as they’ve
been over the past 56 years when compared with economists.  ‘Two Questions’  Wall Street firms pushed up estimates for Standard & Poor’s
500 Index earnings for a 10th straight quarter, forecasting a 17
percent gain in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
9.9 times more than economists say gross domestic product will
grow. The average ratio since 1954 is 5.4 times, the data show.  “Everyone’s struggling right now with two questions,”
 Keith Wirtz , the Cincinnati-based chief investment officer at
Fifth Third Asset Management, which oversees $16.7 billion, said
in a telephone interview on Aug. 19. “Is there a recession on
the horizon, and where will earnings go? There’s a void of
information. People are discounting the chances of a recession
and what that could mean for earnings.”  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies whose
earnings are most-dependent on economic growth dropped 0.4
percent today after rallying 2.7 percent earlier. Financial
stocks reversed earlier gains, slipping 1.3 percent as a group.  Goldman Sachs dropped 4.7 percent to $106.51, the lowest
price since March 2009. Goldman Sachs confirmed the Reuters
report after the close of regular trading. Blankfein and other
people hired attorneys in relation to a U.S. probe of matters
raised by the Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations,
the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Bank of America  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  tumbled 7.9 percent.  China 
Construction Bank Corp. said the U.S. bank agreed to retain at
least half its 10 percent holding in the world’s second-largest
lender by market value. Analysts including Charles Peabody of
Portales Partners LLC said the firm would sell all its shares.  The euro fell against the majority of its most-traded
counterparts, erasing earlier advances as stocks fluctuated,
reducing demand for higher-yielding assets. The euro slid 0.3
percent to $1.4360, after gaining as much as 0.3 percent.  The yen declined against 13 of its 16 major counterparts
after Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said he is ready to take
decisive steps after the currency rose to its postwar record
last week. The Japanese currency dropped 0.3 percent against the
dollar, and less than 0.1 percent versus the euro.  Noda told reporters in  Tokyo  he’s become “more concerned
about the worsening of the yen’s one-sided movements.” The
government will take “bold actions if necessary and won’t rule
out any possible options,” he said.  Yen, Franc  Japan  last intervened in the currency market, selling yen
in an effort to halt its climb, on Aug. 4, driving the currency
down as much as 4.1 percent against the dollar. It has since
appreciated 2.7 percent.  The Swiss franc depreciated against all of its 16 major
peers amid speculation policy makers will intervene to curb the
currency’s gains. The Swiss Cabinet expects the SNB to set an
exchange-rate target of at least 1.2 francs per euro,
SonntagsZeitung reported, without saying where it got the
information. The franc declined 0.4 percent against the euro and
0.7 versus the dollar.  Treasuries fell, pushing the 10-year yield up four basis
points to 2.11 percent, before the government sells $99 billion
of notes this week. The yield declined to a record low of 1.97
percent on Aug. 18. Treasury two-year note yields reached the
highest in two weeks amid concern that low yields will erode
demand for this week’s debt auction. Treasury rates also show
traders expect Bernanke will signal as soon as this week that
the central bank will begin a third round of quantitative
easing.  Treasury Purchases  Barclays Plc said 10-year yields indicate traders have
priced in $500 billion to $600 billion of Treasury purchases by
the Fed. Citigroup said current rates can only be justified by
more central bank bond buying or assuming the economy will
shrink by 2 percent.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps linked to 15 governments increased eight basis
points to 298, the highest in more than a week. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said euro-area common bonds are “the
wrong answer,” fueling speculation that her resistance will
prolong the debt crisis in Europe. The yield on Greece’s 10-year
bond rose 17 basis points to 16.81 percent and Portugal’s 10-
year increased 16 basis points to 10.76 percent.  Brent’s Premium  Brent oil fell in  London , narrowing its record premium to
the main U.S. crude grade, on speculation Libyan production will
recover after rebels entered the capital city of Tripoli. Brent
crude fell to $108.30 a barrel.  New York  oil increased 2.3
percent to $84.12. Brent, more sensitive to global supply
disruptions than WTI because it’s a benchmark for half of the
world’s oil, advanced 19 percent in the first six months of 2011
after the rebellion against Muammar Qaddafi disrupted supplies.
Oil in New York gained 4.4 percent in the first half.  Gold surged 2.6 percent to $1,899.50 an ounce in after-
hours electronic trading on the Comex in New York, as mounting
concern that the global economy is faltering spurred demand for
bullion as a protection of wealth. Earlier, the price touched a
record of $1,901.70. Silver climbed for a seventh day, the
longest streak since April 22, gaining 2.1 percent to $43.37 an
ounce.  Corn futures rose to a 10-week high on speculation that
recent rains in the U.S. Midwest weren’t enough to ease dry
conditions. Wheat rose to a two-month high on concern yields
from the spring crop in the northern U.S. will be less than the
government forecast. Corn futures advanced 1.3 percent, wheat
climbed 0.6 percent and soybeans jumped 1.2 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index decreased 0.4 percent.
South Korea’s Kospi Index sank 2 percent for the biggest retreat
among equity indexes in major developing nations, while China’s
Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  