-- 
U.S., U.K., France Said to Seek UN Sanctions Against Assad

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-22T16:14:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/u-s-u-k-france-said-to-seek-un-sanctions-against-assad-1-.html
The U.S., Britain and  France  are
preparing to ask the United Nations  Security Council  this week
to freeze the foreign financial assets of  Syria ’s President
Bashar al-Assad, a Western diplomat said.  The measure would also bar foreign travel by the Syrian
leader and call for an arms embargo on Syria, the diplomat said.  The three nations are planning to introduce a draft that
targets Assad and about five other government and military
leaders, according to the diplomat, who spoke on condition of
not being identified because the text hasn’t been made public.  The text will be circulated to full 15-member Security
Council following the likely adoption tomorrow by the Geneva-
based UN Human Rights Council of a resolution condemning the
Assad regime’s attacks on peaceful protesters. The  Human Rights
Council  is debating that measure today.  The moves came as Syrian security forces killed at least
eight protesters since yesterday, when thousands took to the
streets demanding Assad bow to demands, echoed by the U.S. and
 Europe , to quit office. At least two anti-government protesters
were shot dead today in Homs, where as many as 5,000 people
demonstrated while a UN team was there as part of a four-day
mission to assess Syria’s humanitarian situation, Mahmoud Merhi,
head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said by phone.  “The gravity of on-going violations and the brutal attacks
against the peaceful protesters in that country demand your
continued attention,” UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
Navi Pillay said in a speech today to the Human Rights Council.  A Human Rights Council fact-finding mission reported last
week that the Syrian authorities have engaged in a “pattern of
widespread or systematic human rights violations,” including
murder, enforced disappearances, torture, deprivation of
liberty, and persecution, Pillay said.  The draft resolution submitted to the Human Rights Council
“strongly condemns the grave human rights violations” by the
Syrian authorities. It also “stresses the need for an
international, transparent, independent and prompt investigation
into alleged violations of international” law and decides to
“urgently dispatch an independent international commission of
inquiry” to Syria, with instructions to report back by the end
of November.  “I don’t think there’s any doubt in the mind of anyone
that the situation has deteriorated significantly,” Eileen Chamberlain Donahoe, the U.S. ambassador to the Human Rights
Council, told reporters before today’s meeting.  “There’s growing unity and resolve that Assad must go,”
Donahoe said. “He’s lost the legitimacy to rule the Syrian
people.  This special session that we are about to hold was
called for by a strong majority of council members, well above
the number we needed to call a special session. Importantly, we
have the support of four Arab neighbors of Syria:  Kuwait ,  Qatar ,
 Saudi Arabia , and Jordan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  