-- 
U.S. Money Funds Cut Europe Bank Debt Stake as Crisis Deepened, Fitch Says

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-08-22T12:08:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/u-s-money-funds-cut-europe-bank-debt-stake-as-crisis-deepened-fitch-says.html
The top U.S. prime money-market
mutual funds cut their assets invested in securities issued by
European banks last month to the lowest level since 2008 as the
region’s debt crisis got worse, according to  Fitch Ratings .  The 10 largest U.S. money funds eligible to purchase
corporate debt, with $658 billion in assets, had 47 percent of
their total holdings in securities issued by European banks as
of July 31, a Fitch report published today said. That was down
from 48.7 percent as of the end of June and the lowest since
45.4 percent at the height of the global financial crisis in the
second half of 2008, according to Fitch data. Prime money-market
funds’ holdings of European debt are down from 50.2 percent at
the end of May.  U.S. funds are cutting their holdings in European banks on
concern the financial institutions may face funding problems as
the sovereign-debt crisis escalates. Pledges of 365 billion
euros ($526 billion) in official loans to  Greece ,  Portugal  and
Ireland, and 96 billion euros of bond purchases by the  European
Central Bank  have yet to fix the finances of those countries or
prevent speculative attacks on  Spain  and  Italy .  Global stocks plunged and government bond rallied last week
on speculation European banks lack sufficient capital and as the
economic recovery showed signs of stalling. The ECB said last
week a lender borrowed dollars for the first time in six months
under its liquidity-providing operation.  Fitch’s sample of the 10 largest funds represented 43
percent of the  Investment Company Institute ’s estimate of about
$1.53 trillion in total assets under management by U.S. prime
money market funds.  Funds’ Investments  The funds’ investments included those in banks’ certificate
of deposits, commercial paper, repurchase agreements and short-
term notes and deposits.  U.S. prime money fund managers also reduced risk by
shortening maturities, according to the report written by Fitch
analysts led by Robert Grossman in  New York . More than 20
percent of funds’ investment in French banks’ certificate of
deposits was in maturities of seven days or fewer at the end of
July, a threefold increase compared with the end of June, the
report said.  Among European nations, funds had the highest concentration
in debt from French banks at about 14.1 percent, followed by
U.K. banks at 10.5 percent, according to the report. The funds
had no holdings in Italian and Spanish banks, down from an
aggregate of 0.8 percent at the end of June.  European banks have been trying to reduce their risk to
Greece on concern it may default on its debt and the regions
other most-indebted nations. The  Bank for International
Settlements  estimated European lenders held $136.3 billion in
loans to Greece at the end of 2010 and almost $2 trillion to
Portugal, Ireland, Spain and Italy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  