-- 
U.S. Agribusinesses Less Optimistic on Economy, DTN Survey Shows

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-08-22T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/u-s-agribusinesses-less-optimistic-on-economy-dtn-survey-shows.html
U.S. agricultural businesses are
less optimistic about their current and future economic
situation than in February, according to a survey-based index
produced by industry researcher and publisher  DTN/The
Progressive Farmer .  Farmers, veterinarians and sellers of seed, chemicals, feed
and machinery gave their present economic circumstances an index
score of 97.8, down from 113.2 in February, DTN said today in
the report based on a survey conducted Aug. 2 to Aug. 9.
Respondents gave a rating of 89.5 for their outlook for the
economy one year from now, down from 115.8 in February. The
sentiment of 100 was established in the benchmark month of
August 2010.  Drought in southern and Midwestern states, compounded by
floods on the Northern Plains, have reduced yield prospects for
corn, soybean, wheat and cotton crops. Increased pessimism
reflects uncertainty about the broader economy, said Greg
Horstmeier, editor-in-chief of DTN, a unit of Madrid-based
 Telvent GIT SA. (TLVT)   “People see stagnation, and that’s lowered their
expectations for the future,” Horstmeier said. “People don’t
see the opportunities to grow much further.”  Corn futures traded in  Chicago  are up 69 percent in the
past year, soybeans rallied 35 percent, and hogs and cattle have
increased more than 13 percent, on rising domestic and
international demand. U.S. farm exports will jump 26 percent to
$137 billion in fiscal 2011, the highest ever, the government
said in May.  Rising Costs  Costs for farmers are 43 percent higher than a year ago,
partly because of rising energy prices and land rents, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said  last month . Higher production
costs and dimmer prospects for the  U.S. economy  are making
agribusinesses less optimistic, said Willie German, owner of
Willie German Equipment Co., a farm-supply retailer in
Somerville,  Tennessee .  “You tell me what the general economy is doing, I’ll tell
you how the farm economy is doing,” said German, 54, who
operates a 9,000-acre corn, cotton, wheat and soybean farm that
also has 300 head of cattle. “Right now, prices are the best
they’ve ever been, but we can’t plan for anything.”  German, who sells tractors and combines made by CNH Global
NV, said he’s holding off on expanding his business with
acquisitions of other equipment distributors because of concern
that the U.S. may enter another recession.  Boom Continuing  Tom Eischen, who sells insecticides made by DuPont Co.
along with seeds and fertilizers at Tom Eischen Sales Inc. in
Algona,  Iowa , said he expects the farm economy to keep booming
as long as crop inventories remain low. U.S. corn supplies in
2012 may fall 24 percent to 714 million bushels, the USDA said
in  a report  earlier this month.  “It’s going to take us a couple years to build that back
up,” Eischen, 57, said in an interview.  The pre-harvest Agriculture Confidence Index was compiled
after surveying 100 agribusiness professionals, DTN said. The
company conducts its surveys  three times  a year: before planting
and then before and after the harvest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  