-- 
U.S. Economy Is ‘On the Precipice’ of Recession, Rosenberg Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-08-22T17:47:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/u-s-economy-to-slip-into-a-recession-by-winter-rosenberg-says-tom-keene.html
The  U.S. economy  is “one giant soft
patch” on the verge of a recession, economist  David Rosenberg 
of Gluskin Sheff & Associates Inc. in Toronto, said today.  In a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on “Bloomberg
Surveillance,” Rosenberg said the economy is in a “classic
pre-recession pattern” and that “we are on the precipice of
the economy contracting between now and the winter.”  Rosenberg called consumer spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy, “the weakest link” and said
that “housing is clearly not coming up off the bottom.”  “Capital spending is still positive but not enough to
offset the other contractionary forces in the economy,”
Rosenberg said.  The economy has slowed from last year. Gross domestic
product expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the second
quarter after a 0.4 percent pace in the first three months of
this year, according to Commerce Department statistics.  The economy expanded at a 3.1 percent pace on average in
2010.  The  unemployment rate  has been at or above 9 percent since
April, according to the Labor Department statistics.  In an interview on Aug. 5, Rosenberg put the odds of a
recession at 99 percent. “When you’re running the economy so
close to zero, you’re like one little shock away from heading
into a recession,” he said.  (In the U.S., hear Bloomberg Radio on satellite radio: Sirius
Channel 130 and XM Channel 129. In  New York City , tune to WBBR
1130 on the AM dial.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas R. Keene in New York 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  