-- 
Lufthansa, Ryanair, EasyJet Cautious on Filling Void Left by Air Berlin

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-08-22T11:59:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/lufthansa-low-cost-leaders-cautious-on-filling-air-berlin-s-flight-void.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  said routes
dropped by budget rival  Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  are unlikely to be a good
fit for its network, while leading discount operators  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA)  and  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  have no plans to add German bases.  The three carriers said they’ll still examine opportunities
that may arise as Air Berlin scraps 7,500 flights in the second
half, and Lufthansa’s Germanwings GmbH low-cost unit aims to
take over some destinations served from Cologne-Bonn airport.  “The routes that appear to be being taken out aren’t routes
Lufthansa is going to rush for,” Stefan Lauer, head of the
carrier’s airlines based outside of  Germany , said in Vienna. “It
looks as if a lot of them will be routes from smaller German
centers to the Mediterranean, and that’s not our network.”  Air Berlin is scrapping unprofitable services, cutting
frequencies and reducing its presence at regional airports to
focus on bases in Berlin, Dusseldorf, Vienna and Palma de
Mallorca. Bloxham Stockbrokers analyst  Joe Gill  said discount
carriers in particular will probably bide their time to see how
far Air Berlin’s retreat goes before making significant moves.  “I wouldn’t assume that the capacity cuts that Air Berlin
has announced are themselves the opportunity; I think it’s a
much deeper opportunity than that,” Dublin-based Gill said by
phone. “Ryanair is waiting in the shadows to do a deal with
anybody if it can get the right metrics with airport costs.”  Tax Barrier  Lufthansa spokesman Boris Ogursky said Europe’s second-
biggest airline needs to consider whether cities being dropped
fit with the network. “I wouldn’t say anything as concrete as
that we are interested in Air Berlin’s routes,” he said.  Germanwings would like to operate Air Berlin routes from
Cologne, its own base, to cities in Morocco, Tunisia and  Italy ,
benefitting from “very different” costs, spokesman Heinz-Joachim Schoettes said. There have been no talks as yet, he added.  Among services being terminated are those from Dusseldorf
to Bilbao, from Vienna to  Madrid  and from Palma to the German
town of Saarbrucken and to Murcia on the Spanish mainland.
Still, most cuts are at the business-focused City Shuttle unit,
including Hanover to  London Gatwick , Munster to London Stansted
and Stuttgart to St Petersburg, Air Berlin said Aug. 18.  While Ryanair added winter services from Frankfurt and
Munich to Alicante in  Spain  on the day before Air Berlin’s
statement, it has generally cut German capacity since a new
aviation tax was implemented, spokesman Stephen McNamara said.  “Until the German market becomes competitive I can’t see
any big increases in capacity by Ryanair,” McNamara said from
Dublin. “Some Air Berlin routes may seem attractive but the tax
is going to be a problem, especially during the winter.”  Balearic Routes  Europe ’s biggest discount carrier expects to carry about 8
million passengers in the region’s largest economy this year,
down from 11 million in 2010, the spokesman said.  Bloxham’s Gill said that deeper cuts to Air Berlin’s
network to the Balearic Islands would present the best openings
for Ryanair, which currently has German bases at Frankfurt-Hahn,
Bremen and Dusseldorf and also flies from eight other airports
in the country, serving a total of 160 destinations.  EasyJet, Europe’s second-biggest budget operator, has no
immediate plans for operations on the abandoned routes, though
it views Germany as an important market and would like to expand
there in the longer term, spokesman Paul Moore said today.  “We’re not going to do anything in the short term in
response to Air Berlin’s capacity reduction,” Moore said.
EasyJet currently has one German base, in Berlin.  Lufthansa, EasyJet, Ryanair and Germanwings are among
carriers looking at the situation in the wake of Air Berlin’s
withdrawal, Financial Times Deutschland said today, citing
spokespeople and managers and the companies.  BMI, SAS  Lufthansa remains open to disposing of U.K. unit BMI if a
sale makes sense “in the total picture,” Lauer told journalists
in Vienna, where the German company -- which owns Austrian
Airlines -- named an Airbus SAS A380 superjumbo after the city.  BMI, the second-biggest slot holder at  London ’s Heathrow
airport, has been hit “particularly hard” by a traffic slump
prompted by unrest in the  Middle East , and Lufthansa doesn’t
exclude any options for the division, the executive said.  Cologne-based Lufthansa is not currently considering a move
for SAS Group as the Nordic carrier’s government investors look
to dispose of stakes, said Lauer. “We are busy enough with the
companies that we’ve bought in Europe,” he said. “I don’t think
this is the time to think about anything else.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  