-- 
UN Says South Sudan Cattle Raid Reportedly Kills 600 People

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-08-22T14:22:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/un-says-south-sudan-cattle-raid-kills-reportedly-600-people.html
At least 600 people were reportedly
killed and as many as 985 injured in South  Sudan  during a cattle
raid, said the head of the  United Nations peacekeeping mission 
in the newly independent nation, Hilde F. Johnson.  The violence took place on Aug. 18 when members of the
Murle ethnic group attacked three villages of the Lou Nuer
community in Uror county in Jonglei state, Johnson said today by
phone from South Sudan’s capital, Juba.  The incident “was the first large-scale attack” since the
July 9 independence of South Sudan, she said. “This is part of
a cycle of violence unfortunately reaching beyond cattle
raiding.”  This year has been the most violent in South Sudan since
the end of a two-decade civil war with the north in 2005, with
2,368 civilians dying in rebel attacks and ethnic violence,
including cattle raids, as of July 9, compared with 940 last
year, according to the UN.  The UN is receiving reports that 250,000 people fled their
homes and 30,000 head of cattle were stolen, Johnson said. About
200 people may have been kidnapped, the peacekeeping mission
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Women, Children Missing  “A number of children and women are still missing,” Jonglei
state Governor Kuol Manyang said today by phone from Bor, the
state capital. “We don’t know if they were abducted or if
they’re hiding in the forest.”  South Sudan gained control of about 375,000 barrels of oil
per day from the former Sudan’s daily production of 490,000
barrels. Paris-based Total SA owns 32.5 percent of the
unexplored Block B, located in Jonglei and Lakes states.  The violence in Jonglei was the result of retaliation for a
previous attack by the Lou Nuer group on Murle communities in
late June, before South Sudan’s independence, Johnson said.  Johnson described the incident as a ”higher level of
escalation compared to previous attacks”, as it focused on the
Lou Nuer’s spiritual leader. “The risk is the escalation may be
retaliated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 