-- 
Turkish Central Bank May Hold Rate After Shock Cut, Survey Shows

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-08-22T09:20:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/turkish-central-bank-may-hold-rate-after-shock-cut-survey-shows.html
Turkey ’s central bank may keep the
benchmark  interest rate  at a historic low at the second policy
meeting this month after a surprise cut three weeks earlier
drove the lira weaker.  Governor Erdem Basci will hold the benchmark one-week repo
rate at 5.75 percent, according to the median of 18 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Three forecast a second reduction. The
bank will announce its decision at 2 p.m. in Ankara tomorrow.  The bank’s cut at an extraordinary rates meeting on Aug. 4
was an “early action” designed to cushion the economy from the
impact of a likely slowdown caused by European debt problems,
Basci said in a written interview with Bloomberg last week. The
bank may have to loosen monetary conditions further, depending
on how  Europe  deals with the sovereign-debt crisis, he said.  “They’ve already made a pre-emptive move that was very
timely, but that doesn’t mean they will be cutting rates
aggressively every time,”  Tevfik Aksoy , London-based chief
economist for the region at  Morgan Stanley & Co ., said in an e-
mail. “They will probably want to leave some ammunition for
really tough times and avoid taking the rate down to a point
when further cuts might not be effective at all.”  The lira has fallen 3 percent against the dollar since the
rate cut, extending a decline that’s reached 13.5 percent this
year, the most among 25 emerging-market economies tracked by
Bloomberg. The bank on Aug. 4 lowered the foreign-currency
 reserve requirements  banks must set aside against liabilities,
releasing an additional $930 million into the market.  Requirements Raised  The bank has increased reserve requirements four times
since December to reduce bank lending and tame a boom in
consumer demand that drew in imports and drove the current-
account deficit to record levels. The higher ratios now give the
bank room to loosen monetary policy without using the benchmark
interest rate.  “The bank could reduce foreign-exchange reserve-
requirement ratios to provide further support to” the lira,’’
Selim Cakir, an economist for TEB Ekonomi Bankasi AS in
Istanbul, wrote in a research note. The “dovish stance,
combined with a current-account deficit that is close to 10
percent of GDP, is likely to keep the lira under pressure.”  The economy expanded 1.4 percent in the first quarter from
the end of 2010. Growth may be flat in the second quarter, Basci
forecast. The 12-month current-account gap widened to a record
$72.5 billion in June. The deficit will improve in the second
half of the year, helped by slowing growth, the weaker lira and
cheaper  oil prices , Basci said.  Inflation accelerated to 6.3 percent in July from 6.2
percent a month earlier. Inflation will end this year closer to
the bank’s 5.5 percent goal than its forecast of 6.9 percent,
made last month, Basci said on Aug. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 