-- 
US Airways Pilots Say Safety, Not Union Slowdown, Is Causing Flight Delays

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r k   K e m p
-- 
2011-08-22T21:05:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/us-airways-pilots-say-safety-not-union-slowdown-is-causing-flight-delays.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  pilots told a
U.S. judge they’re being wrongly blamed for flight delays and
cancellations that they say are the result of safety issues and
not a union-backed work slowdown.  Tom Kubik, safety chairman of the 5,200-member  US Airline
Pilots Association , defended his group’s push to publicize an
internal safety study, over objections from airline officials
who said pilot anger tainted the results.  “The truth is a good thing to put out there,” Kubik told
an airline attorney during testimony today before U.S. District
Judge Robert J. Conrad Jr. in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  US Airways , the fifth-biggest American carrier, sued the
union last month, accusing it of stoking a work slowdown in
violation of federal  labor laws . It’s seeking a court order
barring the group from wrongfully encouraging the job action.  Conrad didn’t rule on that request, telling lawyers for
both sides he wanted to “digest” the two days of testimony and
oral argument he has heard.  Robert Siegel, a lawyer for the airline, told the judge on
Aug. 19 that the union “instigated a concerted action and failed
to take reasonable steps to stop it.”  Michelle Mohr, a US Airways spokeswoman, declined to
comment on today’s testimony.  Unified Contract  The Tempe, Arizona-based airline has been unable to reach a
unified labor contract for its pilots since its 2005 merger with
America West Holdings Corp. The eastern and western pilots’
factions work under different pay scales and rules and disagree
over how to combine the seniority lists from the two carriers.  Pilots’ lawyer Brian O’Dwyer argued on Aug. 19 that the
disruptions stem from safety concerns created by the company’s
desire for increased revenue.  “This union is willing, ready and able to cooperate,”
O’Dwyer said. “What it’s not willing, ready and able to do is
compromise the safety of its members and customers.”  The union is pursuing its own labor-law claims against the
airline in federal court in  Brooklyn ,  New York .  The airline’s case is US Airways v. US Airline Pilots
Association, 11-00371, U.S. District Court, Western District of
North Carolina (Charlotte). The union’s case is US Airline
Pilots Association v. US Airways Inc., 11-cv-2579, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Kemp at the U.S. courthouse in Charlotte, North Carolina,
at   opted1@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  