-- 
VeriFone CEO Bergeron May Deploy $1 Billion Annually for Acquisitions

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-08-22T20:21:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/verifone-ceo-bergeron-may-deploy-1-billion-annually-for-acquisitions.html
VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY) , the largest
maker of credit card terminals, may spend as much as $1 billion
a year on acquisitions in emerging markets and data services,
Chief Executive Officer Douglas Bergeron said.  The  San Jose , California-based company anticipates one $500
million to $700 million deal annually, as well as several
transactions of about $10 million to $20 million, he said.  While  Europe  is VeriFone’s fastest-growing region, the
company is expanding elsewhere to help add share in the global
mobile-payments market, which  Juniper Research  says may reach
$670 billion by 2015. Retailers worldwide will buy 77 million
card-payment terminals from 2012 to 2016, up from 65 million in
the prior five-year period, projects  David Robertson , publisher
of The Nilson Report, which tracks consumer payment systems.  “Our second-largest growth driver is the emerging
markets,” Bergeron said in an interview. “There’s something to
leverage there in terms of adding more services, more
capabilities. It’s a real jump ball for a company like ours that
wants to take on a bigger piece of the payment ecosystem.”  He said that potential targets’ enterprise value, which
includes market capitalization and debt and excludes cash
holdings, won’t exceed $1 billion in any given year.  Buyouts will probably be in countries such as Turkey and
 Brazil , which have a rapidly expanding middle class, and target
companies that can help VeriFone expand the services and
software it offers merchants to analyze card transaction data,
Bergeron said. By next year, as much as half of revenue may come
from emerging markets, he said.  Google Wallet  VeriFone fell 54 cents to $31.12 at the market close today
on the New York Stock Exchange, paring an earlier decline of as
much as 4.5 percent. The stock has dropped 19 percent this year.  VeriFone has been expanding rapidly in developing markets,
and adding new products such as software, hardware and services
to facilitate transactions made with cell phones. Its products
already let U.S. merchants accept  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Google Wallet
service, which consumers can use to pay and redeem coupons at
cash registers via mobile phones.  VeriFone has made large acquisitions in the past. On Aug.
4, it reached a settlement with the U.S. Justice Department to
acquire rival Hypercom Corp. for $485 million on the condition
it sells Hypercom’s U.S. card-payment terminal business. In
2006, the company  spent $793 million  in cash and stock to buy
Lipman Electronic Engineering Ltd., another provider of payment
systems. The company has $600 million in cash.  Asian Distribution  To further boost growth, VeriFone could try to acquire
terminal makers with wide distribution in  Asia , Gil Luria, an
analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc., said in an interview.
Possible acquisition targets may include  Korea ’s CyberNet Inc.,
China-based  Shenzhen Zhengtong Electronics Co. Ltd., and
 Taiwan ’s  Uniform Industrial Corp. , he said.  Bergeron didn’t name any specific companies he’d like to
acquire. Representatives from CyberNet, Uniform Industrial and
Shenzhen Zhentong Electronics didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  As the fastest-growing terminals market in the world,  China 
is especially attractive for VeriFone, Robertson said. Local
banks are working to switch over to a new type of cards in the
next several years that will require merchants to buy new card-
accepting terminals. A local distribution network may be key to
capitalizing on that opportunity. Shenzhen Zhentong Electronics,
for one, has 46 offices in China, according to its website.  Payment Processors  To provide more services to merchants, VeriFone could also
acquire one of more than 100 payment processors in countries
where credit card penetration is still low and is just starting
to rise, Robertson said. These companies have close
relationships with merchants, and could help VeriFone offer
features such as coupons, daily deals, prepaid cards and loyalty
programs, Robertson said.  “Everyone is trying to figure out the intersection of
payments and commerce vis-a-vis mobile devices,” Robertson
said. “It’s there where I am sure acquisitions are going to
happen. It’s logical for them to want more pieces of the
transaction pie.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  