-- 
Verizon Workers Ending Strike Helps Carrier Mitigate Losses

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-08-22T20:08:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/verizon-employees-ending-strike-may-help-carrier-mitigate-losses.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  said
45,000 striking workers will begin returning to the job tonight
while talks continue, a truce that may help the carrier avoid
losses a prolonged walkout would have caused.  Employees are returning while the two sides keep
negotiating what the company called “major issues.” Benefits,
work flexibility and  job security  are among the matters that
still need to be negotiated, Verizon said Aug. 20. Contracts
that expired on Aug. 6 will remain in effect for an undefined
period, Verizon said.  The workers are probably ending the strike after getting
signals that Verizon is more willing to deal, said Jeffrey Keefe, professor of labor and employment relations at  Rutgers
University  in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey . The work stoppage
showed the company that the union was willing to fight even
during a period of high unemployment, he said.  “This is not bad for the union,” Keefe said in a phone
interview today. “This allows members to work under existing
conditions. They still have their pension, traditional health
benefits and no wage cuts.”  The step means Verizon will have the employees of its
traditional fixed-line unit in the northeast U.S. back at work
without giving in to their demands. It may also help the second-
largest U.S. phone company improve service times and retain or
win more customers after some defected during the strike to
rivals such as  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)   ’No Deadline’  “This is going to take time, that’s why there was no set
deadline,”  Peter Thonis , a spokesman for New York-based
Verizon, said in a phone interview. “We will be meeting again
very soon. There is a set schedule for this.”  Alex Dudley , a spokesman for New York-based Time Warner
Cable, said the company added field technicians last week to
install cable service within 48 hours and ran advertisements
promoting fast response times.  “Verizon is losing customers like me because its landline
business as a whole is deteriorating,” said Art Rosenzweig, a
resident of Jay, New York, who said he switched to Time Warner
Cable as Verizon’s service times in rural Essex County declined.  The company’s shares rose 11 cents to $34.82 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock is little
changed since the work stoppage began.  Landline Decline  Verizon, which has about 196,000 employees, hasn’t provided
an estimate for the cost of the two-week strike. An 18-day
standoff in 2000 cost the company $40 million in revenue. This
year’s stoppage probably cost less because it involves fewer
workers over a shorter time period, said  Michael Nelson , an
analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York.  Facing a decline in the landline unit, Verizon has been
seeking work-rule changes and employee contributions to health-
insurance premiums. Workers have said they shouldn’t have to
make substantial concessions as earnings rise and executive pay
remains healthy.  Jim Spellane, a spokesman for the International Brotherhood
of Electrical Workers, said in an interview that the agreement
“lowers the temperature and helps create an atmosphere for
serious bargaining.”  Candice Johnson, a spokeswoman for the  Communications
Workers of America , said the talks will resume this week.  Verizon said the two sides have made progress on some local
and regional issues, without elaborating. The talks began in
July.  Longest Since 2007  The resolution will end a walkout begun Aug. 7 by employees
from Verizon’s landline business in nine Northeastern states and
the  District of Columbia . The labor action was the largest since
73,000 General Motors Co. workers went on strike for two days in
2007, Keefe said.  In an Aug. 7 statement, Verizon Chief Executive Officer
Lowell McAdam said the company needed concessions from unions
because of the division’s customer losses and eroding
profitability. He also cited competition from cable-TV providers
that don’t have similar “contract constraints, enabling them to
be more nimble and flexible meeting customer needs.”  Verizon’s competitors also include  AT&T Inc. (T) , the biggest
U.S. phone carrier and second-largest wireless operator. AT&T
has proposed acquiring Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA,
allowing it to surpass  Verizon Wireless  as the No. 1 U.S. mobile
carrier.  Verizon’s revenue and profit fell last year as declines in
the landline business offset growth in wireless. The number of
fixed lines, including residential and business customers, slid
8.2 percent to 26 million at the end of last year, extending
declines since 2003. During the same period, wireless
subscribers more than doubled to 94.1 million.  The company’s wireless business has been largely unaffected
by the strike.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  