-- 
Weaker Australian Labor Market May Force RBA Rate Cut, BofA Merrill Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-22T05:16:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/weaker-australian-labor-market-may-force-rba-rate-cut-bofa-merrill-says.html
Australia faces as many as 100,000
job losses and rising unemployment that will force the central
bank to cut  interest rates  by November, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch strategists said.  “Anecdotes suggest that official employment data are
lagging a material change in labor market conditions,” BofA
Merrill analysts led by Sydney-based Tim Rocks wrote in a report
predicting unemployment will rise to 6 percent by March, from
5.1 percent last month. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will
“ease rates once it becomes aware of this new trend in the
labor market.”  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Qantas Airways Ltd. and  BlueScope
Steel Ltd. (BSL)  all have announced plans this month to trim their
workforces by 1,000 jobs as Australian consumer confidence
deteriorates and a currency that’s risen 16 percent from a year
ago hurts demand for exports. Rising joblessness will spur the
first RBA rate reduction since April 2009, Rocks said.  “It will become increasingly clear that the RBA has over-
achieved on its tightening objectives, mostly because it has
misunderstood the power of household deleveraging,” Rocks said.
“Financial conditions in Australia are now as tight as at any
time since the 1990” economic slump, he said.  BofA Merrill followed economists at Westpac, Goldman Sachs
& Partners Australia Pty and Deutsche Bank AG in predicting a
lower policy rate after an Aug. 11 report showed unemployment
surged to an eight-month high in July.  Rate Outlook  Investors are betting RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  will lower
the developed world’s highest borrowing costs by at least a
percentage point by December, interbank cash-rate futures show.  Australia’s deteriorating prospects and economists’ calls
for rate cuts follow the central bank’s statements that it
considered boosting borrowing costs earlier this month to
contain inflation fueled by one of the biggest resource-
investment expansions in the country’s history.  The RBA raised the overnight cash rate target seven times
from October 2009 to November 2010 to its current level, 4.75
percent. In the process, Stevens cooled household appetite for
debt, which more than doubled in the past 15 years to 155
percent of disposable income in the March quarter, according to
RBA figures. That’s higher than the 133 percent Americans
accumulated at the height of the U.S. subprime mortgage boom.  Australia  added 41,400 jobs during the first seven months
of the year, the weakest January-July period since 2003.  RBA to ‘Backtrack’  The RBA will be “forced to backtrack and cut rates as the
labor market deteriorates,” Rocks said. “The fall in rates
will be large if a fall in non-mining employment is also
accompanied by disappointment on the timing and scale of mining
investment.”  Prime Minister Julia Gillard earlier today said the
government will help manufacturers including BlueScope, the
nation’s largest steelmaker, address short-term cash flow
issues.  The Australian dollar reached $1.1081 on July 27, the
highest since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983.  The BofA Merrill analysts said they have tallied 7,000
announced job losses since June that probably haven’t shown up
in the official statistics. About 50,000 losses are consistent
with another 0.5 percent jump in the  unemployment rate , they
said.  Bill Evans , Westpac’s chief economist, last month predicted
the central bank will cut its benchmark rate in December by a
quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent. His prediction was
based on an assessment that the unemployment rate would increase
to as high as 5.75 percent next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  