-- 
Xstrata Queensland Mine Challenged as Threat to Barrier Reef

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-08-22T04:46:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/xstrata-queensland-coal-mine-challenged-in-court-as-threat-to-barrier-reef.html
Xstrata Inc., the world’s largest
exporter of power station coal, began its court defense of the
A$6 billion ($6.2 billion) Wandoan coal mine in Australia that
the project’s opponents say threatens the  Great Barrier Reef .  Friends of the Earth , an international environmental lobby
group, is attempting to block the mine’s approval at a trial in
Brisbane that’s scheduled to take two weeks, arguing the coal
exported from the project and burned overseas will add to global
warming. Xstrata plans to dispute that argument, its lawyer
David Jackson said at the start of today’s hearing.  The environmentalists’ argument is a test case for mine
approvals, which are generally only assessed on the immediate
environmental damage, and a win by the group will make it more
difficult for companies, including  Vale SA (VALE3)  and  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , which have about 30 mines in development in the state, to
get approvals. Companies would have to include the effects of
coal-burning worldwide in environmental impact assessments. The
Wandoan appraisal has already taken almost four years.  “The overall effect seems to be to make it harder” to
open new mines,  Jacqueline Peel , an associate professor at the
Melbourne Law School, who practiced environmental and planning
law at Allens, Arthur Robinson LLP from 1997 to 1999, said in a
phone interview. “Every time one of these cases comes up, it
often leads to policy or legislative changes.”  Xstrata won initial state approval for the mine, about 350
kilometers (220 miles) northwest of Brisbane, in November and
federal approval in March.  ‘Economic Benefit’  The project will have a “very significant economic
benefit” for the region, creating 1,700 jobs and providing
governments with about A$3.7 billion of royalty payments over
the 30-year life of the mine, Jackson said. Xstrata will also
pay about A$500 million a year in port charges, to ship the coal
abroad, he said.  Xstrata is investigating the construction of another coal-
handling facility in the region, Jackson said.  The company said earlier it’s spending A$250 million on
reducing pollution from the project.  Xstrata, based in Zug,  Switzerland , plans to make a final
 investment decision  on Wandoan later this year. The mine
property holds more than 600 million metric tons of thermal
coal, second in Australia to BHP’s McArthur project, which has
more than 1 billion tons of reserves, the company said.  The Wandoan District Liaison Committee withdrew its
objection to the project after Xstrata agreed to conditions
including moving a buffer zone further away from the town of 350
people, according to the company.  Carbon Emissions  The exported coal will create as much as 1.3 billion tons
of carbon emissions over 30 years, or 0.15 percent of annual
global emissions, according to Friends of the Earth Brisbane
chapter spokesman Bradley Smith.  Those emissions will contribute to  climate change , which
has already harmed the Great Barrier Reef, Smith said.  “Upward of A$1 billion could be lost to local Queensland
communities every year from climate impacts on the Great Barrier
Reef,” he said.  The marine park stretches more than 3,000 kilometers along
the Queensland coast. The coral reef is longer than the Great
Wall of  China  and the only living thing on earth visible from
space, according to its  website .  Queensland Tourism  An Australian government  report  in 2009 said there have
been two “severe mass coral bleaching events” resulting from
prolonged elevated sea temperatures in the previous decade and
changes to the ecosystem because of climate change “are likely
to have serious implications for dependent industries and
communities.”  About 10 percent of Queensland jobs are dependent on
tourism, with the industry generating about A$17 billion, or 7
percent of the state’s economic  output  in the year ending June
30, 2009, according to Tourism Queensland, a government agency.  In the same year, Queensland exported A$41 billion worth of
coal, with the biggest increases in exports going to China,
 South Korea  and  India ,  according  to the Department of
Employment, Economic Development and Innovation.  Japan  bought the most thermal coal from Queensland in the
year ended June 30, 2010, at 22.5 million tons. South Korea
purchased 10 million tons, according to  data  from Queensland’s
Mining and Safety ministry.  Environmental groups are increasingly pressing courts to
force companies to consider the effects the products from mines
have on the environment, Melbourne law school’s Peel said.  “In the U.S., there is nothing happening at the federal
and national level as far as climate change,” said Peel, co-
author of “Environmental Law: Scientific, Policy and Regulatory
Dimensions.”  “The groups are forcing policy changes” through the
courts, she said.  Australia ’s plans to introduce a tax on carbon
in parliament next month cover only domestic emissions and won’t
have any impact on exported coal, Peel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Brisbane at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  