-- 
Yen Intervention Likely This Week, Credit Suisse’s Fukaya Says

-- B y   H i r o k o   K o m i y a   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-08-22T02:14:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/yen-intervention-likely-this-week-credit-suisse-s-fukaya-says.html
Japan  is likely to intervene in the
foreign-exchange market if the yen strengthens to the 75 level
against the dollar again after reaching a postwar high last
week,  Koji Fukaya , chief currency strategist in Tokyo at Credit
Suisse Group AG said in an interview. Investor trading will
probably reflect nervousness and be driven by movements in U.S.
stocks and comments by Japanese officials, he said.  On yen intervention:  “The yen is being sold on the back of heightened
expectations of intervention as there were numerous comments and
reports coming out over the weekend.”  “If the yen appreciates further, Japan is very likely to
intervene. It may be difficult for speculators to continue
building yen long positions given the growing risk of
intervention.”  On reports of European Central Bank opposition to yen
intervention:  “It’s probably difficult for European officials to insist
the Japanese do not take any action in the market since the ECB
is already buying its own bonds.”  On factors influencing  currency markets :  “Whether or not U.S. stocks will hit a second bottom or
will fall further will dictate the global market sentiment.”  “Bernanke may not make such dovish comments” at the
Federal Reserve’s symposium in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming this week.
“There’s a risk the yen will strengthen regardless of Fed
statements, but that leaves us questions as to who will buy the
yen when the U.S. interest rates are low and yen so high.”
“It’s possible for Japanese exporters to sell the yen, but I
don’t think they will keep on selling at this point yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  