-- 
JPMorgan Brazil Assets Surge 40% in Two Months on Bond Purchases

-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 
2011-10-31T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-31/jpmorgan-brazil-assets-surge-40-in-two-months-on-bond-purchases.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s purchases of
 Treasury securities  in Brazil, where benchmark yields averaged
almost 12 percent this month, helped push the bank’s holdings in
 South America ’s biggest economy 40 percent higher in two months.  Assets at JPMorgan’s Brazilian unit jumped to 22.5 billion
reais ($12.6 billion) as of Aug. 31 from 16.2 billion on June
30, Claudio Berquo, chief executive officer of the business,
said in an interview in Sao Paulo. About 4 percent is company
loans and most of the rest is Treasury securities, according to
the unit’s chief financial officer, Cristiano Almeida.  The  Federal Reserve ’s policy of keeping its benchmark
 interest rate  near zero percent in the U.S. is pushing
investments offshore, said  Richard Bove , a bank analyst at
Rochdale Securities LLC. Brazil’s real-denominated bonds
returned 14 percent in the past year, compared with the 7
percent average return in local currency terms on JPMorgan’s
government bond index for emerging markets.  “We are having a wonderful year in Brazil, better than
planned,” Berquo, 50, said.  Bond purchases by the New York-based bank contributed to a
46 percent jump in earnings from Brazil in the first eight
months of 2011, to 94.5 million reais, even after the bank
boosted expenses to continue investing in the country, according
to Almeida.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. have also
targeted Brazil for a bigger share of their investments. New
York-based Goldman Sachs said earlier this year that Brazil was
one of three countries, along with China and  India , where most
of its hiring efforts have been concentrated. Citigroup, also
based in New York, added more than 340 employees in Brazil in
the month of March alone.  “U.S. banks have got to find growth somewhere, and they’re
not going to find it in the  United States  if the economy is
going to lope along at the current level,” said Bove, whose
company is based in Lutz,  Florida .  Loans to Brazilian companies represent a small percentage
of JPMorgan’s assets in the country because the bank has only
just started offering credit denominated in reais, Berquo said.
Dollar loans remain the majority of JPMorgan’s lending to
companies in the country, and those assets, which Berquo
declined to quantify, are booked in  New York .  The Brazilian unit had 952.9 million reais of loans
outstanding as of Sept. 11, about twice as much as the level in
December 2009, he said, adding that the bank’s goal is to lend
to the top 300 Brazilian firms with annual revenue above 1
billion reais.  Room to Grow  “We are already doing business with half of these
companies, but we still have a lot of room to grow,” he said.  Europe ’s debt crisis will crimp the amount of credit
international banks are willing to lend Brazilian companies and
banks, Berquo said. “A lot of banks will cut credit to
Brazilian clients and the spreads are going to go up,” and that
trend may be an opportunity for JPMorgan to gain market share,
he said.  As part of that effort, JPMorgan moved about 923 million
reais in capital into  Brazil  in September, and “we will bring
in as much as needed,” Berquo said.  JPMorgan was the 23rd largest bank by capital in Brazil as
of June 30, with 1.7 billion reais, according to central bank
figures. Itau Unibanco Holding SA, the biggest, had 67.2 billion
reais.  Oil and Gas  “We want to finance the biggest oil and gas projects, the
infrastructure projects, we want to be a big credit bank in
Brazil,” Berquo said, adding that trade finance and export-
prepayment loans are also being targeted.  “But we are also planning to start participating in the
local bond markets, which are open right now and more attractive
than international markets,” he said.  JPMorgan hired Ricardo Leoni from Santander to head fixed
income in Brazil, and plans to bring on more people after the
end of the bonus season in February, Berquo said. JPMorgan has
more than doubled its headcount, to 750 employees from 339,
since Berquo came back from New York to head the Brazilian
operation at the end of 2009.  The bank is also expanding in asset-management for larger
companies and institutional investors and has 40 people devoted
to the business so far.  Last year, JPMorgan bought Gavea Investimentos Ltda., the
wealth-management company founded by former Brazilian central
bank Governor Arminio Fraga, for an undisclosed amount. The bank
also has a private-equity arm, One Equity Partners, to invest
JPMorgan’s own money. That business in Brazil is run by Veronica
Serra, the daughter of  Jose Serra , who ran for the presidency
last year against  Dilma Rousseff  and lost.  “We will keep growing in the asset-management business, in
private and corporate banking,” Berquo said, adding that the
plan is to reach 1,000 employees by the end of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  