-- ‘Enemy’ Davidoff, Nixon Peabody, Bird: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-03-12T15:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/-enemy-davidoff-nixon-peabody-bird-business-of-law.html
After Sid Davidoff was anointed
public enemy number 12 by President Richard Nixon almost 40
years ago, the political operative for former New York City
Mayor John V. Lindsay turned to the law.  “It was a defining moment,” the Davidoff, Hutcher &
Citron LLP partner said in a telephone interview yesterday. “I
realized that with my law degree and knowledge of government,
this was the time for me to get into the practice of law to do
what I do best -- take on the government in some fashion on
behalf of clients who can’t get the government to understand
what they want to do and why they want to do it.”  At an event tomorrow sponsored by Common Cause in
Washington commemorating the 40-year anniversary of Watergate,
Davidoff will be among three people attending who were on
Nixon’s top 20 enemies list, said Common Cause’s Gary Ferdman.
About 20 others who were on an expanded enemies list will either
attend in person or will be represented.  Among those on the top 20 list were labor union organizers,
journalists, Nixon’s political opponents and Hollywood
celebrities, including former government adviser Morton Halperin
and U.S. Representative John Conyers, who will both attend the
ceremony.  Davidoff said testimony at the time revealed that Nixon
believed that Lindsay, a former ally, had the potential to hurt
Nixon’s career but was thought to be too difficult a target,
making Davidoff the next best thing.  “I was his political lieutenant. I was in charge of his
troops,” Davidoff recalled about Lindsay. “Take down the
leadership in the field, I guess that’s what they thought.”  Davidoff said he realized after the list was made public in
1974 that he had been the target of government harassment
through Internal Revenue Service audits and by snooping
strangers.  Ferdman said Davidoff’s experience showed the
outrageousness of the political climate. “He was acting as a
patriotic American engaged in the political process,” Ferdman
said.  Within a year of the announcement, Davidoff, who had left
the Lindsay administration, joined a small law firm. The name
has changed several times, but Davidoff, Hutcher & Citron has
grown to more than 50 lawyers in four offices in New York,
Albany, Washington and Long Island.  While the firm once focused primarily on government
relations, it now has a broad commercial practice that includes
intellectual property, trusts and estates and other matters.  Despite the passage of time, Davidoff said he continues to
be asked about the experience, which had a benefit Nixon
probably couldn’t have imagined. New clients often want to meet
him because of his inclusion and the notoriety helped generate
business for his practice. “It is definitely a badge of
distinction,” he said.  Moves  Ex-U.S. Senator Scott Brown Joins Nixon Peabody Law Firm  Scott Brown, who won the U.S. Senate seat formerly held by
Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts then lost to Democrat
Elizabeth Warren in November, joined Nixon Peabody LLP as
counsel in the law firm’s Boston office.  “During my time in politics, I never hesitated to reach
across the aisle to work with members of any political party to
secure a preferable outcome,” Brown said in a statement. “My
approach is consistent with the way Nixon Peabody does business,
and I believe we can be successful together.”  Brown, 53, became the first Republican elected to the
Senate from Massachusetts since 1972 by winning an open Senate
seat in a 2010 special election after Kennedy’s death. He lost
to Warren by seven percentage points last year in an election
for a full six-year term.  Brown’s business and governmental affairs practice at Nixon
Peabody will focus on the financial services industry and
commercial real estate matters, the firm said.  He joins other political and government officials at Nixon
Peabody, including Tom Reynolds, a five-term U.S. congressman
who leads the firm’s government relations practice.  “As we anticipate the future needs of our clients, we are
always looking for innovative ways to add value. Scott’s
personality and entrepreneurial spirit will build strong
relationships, Andrew I. Glincher, the law firm’s managing
partner, said in a statement.  Brown said in a press conference today that he hasn’t made
any decision on his political plans. “I’ve enjoyed doing it for
the last 15 years, but I’m not sure what the future holds,” he
said. “I’ll make that announcement in the future. For now,
Nixon Peabody has given me this opportunity.”  Nixon Peabody has about 700 attorneys at 17 offices in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  Paul Hastings Adds Justice Department Prosecutor Edmonds  Nathaniel Edmonds, the former assistant chief of the U.S.
Justice Department’s Foreign Corrupt Practices Act unit, joined
Paul Hastings LLP as a partner in the global compliance and
disputes practice in Washington.  Edmonds, who was an assistant chief of the fraud section of
the FCPA in the criminal division, was one of the longest-
tenured FCPA prosecutors, the firm said.  “Within the FCPA bar, there are few practitioners with
Nat’s combination of investigative experience, technical and
legal expertise, and understanding of the international legal
and regulatory environment,” William Sullivan, global chairman
of the litigation practice said in a statement. “In an
environment where compliance issues have become increasingly
important worldwide, Nat’s experience working with law
enforcement officials from six continents will allow him to
distinguish himself to the growing number of companies facing
investigations by multiple enforcement agencies around the
world,” he added.  Edmonds was responsible for directly supervising as many as
half of the Justice Department’s investigations into
transnational bribery. He also drafted portions of the FCPA
Resource Guide published in November 2012, which details the
contours of the FCPA legal regime, the policy positions
underlying the enforcement strategy, and the relevance of past
enforcement positions taken by the Justice Department and the
SEC.  Paul Hastings has lawyers at 20 offices in Asia, Europe and
the U.S.  Intellectual Property Litigator Joins DLA Piper in New York  DLA Piper LLP announced that Paul R. Gupta has joined the
firm’s litigation and intellectual property and technology
practices as a partner in New York. He was previously a partner
in the New York and Silicon Valley offices of Orrick, Herrington
& Sutcliffe LLP.  Gupta focuses on intellectual property, information
technology, cyber-security, privacy and business litigation in
the technology sector, the firm said.  “Given his broad experience handling high-stakes
technology, IP and other disputes, Paul will be an outstanding
addition to a practice that is well situated to address the
constantly evolving regulatory and business challenges facing
our clients on a daily basis,” John Allcock, DLA Piper’s global
co-chairman and U.S. chairman of intellectual property and
technology, said in a statement.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in more than 30 countries
throughout the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle
East.  News  Data ‘Unmasks’ Law Schools, U.S. News Rankings’ Morse Says  Law schools ranked by U.S. News & World Report magazine in
the 50 to 150 range were the ones most affected by the
availability this year -- for the first time -- of more-detailed
graduate employment data from the American Bar Association,
according to Bob Morse, who oversees the rankings for U.S. News.  The new data “unmasked” that some of those schools had a
relatively small number of their students taking full-time long-
term jobs that require a JD, Morse tells Bloomberg Law’s Lee
Pacchia.  Many schools on the East and West coasts also had drops in
their rankings as a result of the new data, Morse said.
University of San Francisco School of Law had this year’s
biggest drop, declining 38 places on the rankings, coming in
last at 144 on the list.  At the top of the list, Yale continued to claim the No. 1
spot, with Harvard inching up one slot to tie with Stanford at
No. 2.  Turning to last month’s controversial National Jurist
magazine ranking of schools, which was meant to provide an
alternative to U.S. News’s list, Morse said “welcome to the
world of law school rankings, and the world of being criticized
for your methodology.”  As for the power of U.S. News’s rankings, which some deans
blame for legal education’s woes, Morse says, “U.S. News isn’t
the ABA. We’re not responsible for the cost of law school, the
state of legal employment, the impact that the recession has had
on hiring, or the fact that there are 10 or 20 new law schools
that have opened over the past couple of decades. And we’re not
responsible for the imbalance of jobs to graduates.”  The full U.S. News rankings are available online by
 clicking here .  To view the video on the Bloomberg terminal, click here.  SEC Nominee White to Face Conflict Questions at Senate Hearing  Mary Jo White, U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s choice to run
the Securities and Exchange Commission, may be compelled to
provide more information about her ties to large banks as
senators press her today about how she would operate as Wall
Street’s regulator.  Some Democrats on the Senate Banking Committee who will
question White at a nomination hearing say their concerns
probably don’t threaten her confirmation. White, 65, has said
she would retire from New York-based Debevoise & Plimpton LLP,
where she has served as a lawyer defending Wall Street, if she’s
confirmed by the Senate.  White, who was the Manhattan U.S Attorney from 1993 to
2002, has had numerous meetings with senators in recent weeks as
she faces skepticism about her ties to Wall Street. In her
prepared Senate testimony, released yesterday, White doesn’t
address the issue. She previously pledged to abstain for one
year from any SEC matter that involves Debevoise or its clients.  White has said Debevoise would pay her a lump-sum
retirement payment within 60 days of her starting at the SEC.
The payment would replace her monthly retirement payments for
four years. She is eligible for lifetime monthly payments from
Debevoise of about $42,500, according to her financial
disclosure statement.  White’s testimony dwells on market regulation, a topic that
hasn’t been a large part of her career as a litigator. She
singled out high-frequency and algorithmic trading as strategies
that demand further evaluation from the SEC.  For more, click here.  Hunton Is Top Government-Paid Outside Firm, NLJ Survey Finds  Hunton & Williams LLP ranked at the top of a list of
private law firms receiving money from the government in an
examination of contract legal work reported by the National Law
Journal.  In a review of government payments over the last five
years, Hunton received $34.7 million, from a total of $400
million paid to 1,200 private law firms and sole practitioners,
according to the review.  The government overall paid $3.3 billion to 4,700 vendors
in the five years beginning 2008, the bulk of which, $686.6
million, went to Forfeiture Support Associates, for work for the
U.S. Justice Department in seizing the assets of criminals, the
NLJ reported. Another $384.3 million went to CACI International
Inc., for help given to the Justice Department for trial
support, according to the newspaper.  Hunton received the funds for work on behalf of the U.S.
Department of Energy for licensing issues related to nuclear
waste storage site Nevada’s Yucca Mountain, the NLJ said.  The second highest firm was Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft
LLP, for work for the Treasury Department. Cadwalader received
$26.8 million under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the NLJ
said.  Hunton & Williams didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Additional firms at the top of the list included in Morgan
Lewis & Bockius LLP at third, followed by Klarquist Sparkman
LLP, Leydig, Voit & Mayer, Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison LLP, Sidley Austin LLP, Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP,
the law offices of Margaret Dillenburg and Curtis, Mallet-
Prevost, Colt & Mosle LLP.  For more,  click here.   Ex-Senator Asks Judge to Toss Suit Over Sex-Sting Legal Fees  Former U.S. Senator Larry Craig asked a judge to throw out
a Federal Election Commission suit over hiring lawyers with
campaign funds after a sex-sting arrest, arguing he was on
congressional travel at the time.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in Washington today
voiced skepticism of Craig’s argument that he was engaged in
official Senate business simply because he was headed to the
capital when he was arrested for soliciting sex at the
Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport.  “He pleaded guilty to an offense committed in a bathroom
that has no connection to his duties other than it was committed
in an airport,” Jackson said to Craig’s lawyer, Andrew Herman,
at one point during the hour-long hearing. She said she would
rule on the issue later.  Craig, an Idaho Republican, spent the money in connection
with his arrest, guilty plea to disorderly conduct and
subsequent efforts to withdraw the plea in Minnesota, the
commission said in a lawsuit filed in June.  Craig, 67, was arrested at the airport on June 11, 2007, by
an undercover policeman. He denied soliciting sex in the
restroom, saying he had done nothing wrong and that he wasn’t a
homosexual.  Craig hired Washington-based Sutherland, Asbill & Brennan
to serve as lead counsel in an effort to withdraw his plea and
Kelly & Jacobson, a Minnesota firm. He also retained a media
relations firm to handle press inquiries about the incident,
according to the FEC’s complaint.  The Craig for U.S. Senate Committee paid Sutherland Asbill
at least $139,952 for legal services on Craig’s behalf, while
Kelly & Jacobson received about $77,032, the commission said in
the lawsuit.  The commission has asked the court to make Craig pay back
what he spent on his legal defense and to levy civil penalties
against Craig and his campaign treasurer of as much as $6,500.  Kevin Hancock, an FEC lawyer, told Jackson that political
and media fallout from the arrest wouldn’t justify tapping
campaign funds because the underlying conduct was personal.  The
case is Federal Election Commission v. Craig for U.S. Senate,
1:12-cv-00958, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  For more, click here.  Firm News  Bird & Bird Expands Baltic Sea Presence with Danish Merger  Bird & Bird LLP will merge with Danish technology firm BvHD
in May, giving the firm a new Copenhagen office and bringing
their worldwide office count to 24.  BvHD, a 19-lawyer firm with nine partners, began with a
focus on technology, though the firm now also specializes in
corporate, commercial, public procurement and disputes advice.
All the lawyers will join Bird & Bird.  “Denmark is a center for innovative industries that match
our sector focus globally and it’s exciting to be able to
provide clients with a comprehensive service across the Baltic
Sea region, something not offered by any other international
firm,” Bird & Bird Chief Executive Officer David Kerr said in a
statement. “We already know the BvHD team very well. The
cooperation agreement, which has been in place for over a year,
means we will have an integrated team from day one of the merger
and our complementary sector focus means there are excellent
synergies between our firms.”  BvHD recently recruited two corporate mergers and
acquisitions specialists, Ulrich Lausten and Christian Scherfig.  Bird & Bird LLP has over 900 lawyers in 23 offices across
Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 