-- ‘Kane’ Shed Light on Artists Behind Camera: Rainer File
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2013-03-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/-kane-shed-light-on-artists-behind-camera-rainer-file.html
Most movies today are shot in high-
definition digital and viewed on ever-smaller screens. Here are
four cinematographers of yore who actually shot their films...on
film.  Gregg Toland is the first whose name I can recall
recognizing in the credits. Not surprising, since he shot  Orson Welles ’s “ Citizen Kane .” Toland didn’t invent deep-focus
cinematography (in which background and foreground are equally
clear), but he fully exploited its possibilities in that film
and William Wyler’s “ The Little Foxes ” (both from 1941), among
others.  As an aesthetic strategy, deep focus allows the viewer to
take in the totality of a scene and choose what’s most
important: In effect, we do our own editing within the frame.
It’s a less coercive, more open approach to storytelling.  Toland drew heavily on the German Expressionists for parts
of “Citizen Kane” (think of those stark compositions inside
Charles Foster Kane’s Xanadu fortress).  Toland was equally masterful in widely divergent styles.
His work on Wyler’s “ Wuthering Heights ” (1939) is highly
romantic. For John Ford’s “ The Grapes of Wrath ” (1940) he
approaches the lyrical austerity of the Depression-era
photography of Walker Evans and Dorothea Lange.  Emotional Depth  His deep focus compositions heightened the emotional
resonance in Wyler’s “ The Best Years of Our Lives ” (1946),
that masterpiece about returning Word War II vets. Toland died
two years later, just 44 and at the height of his powers.  Another cinematographer who experimented with deep focus
and had a startling range of styles was James Wong Howe, who
began as a slate boy for Cecil B. De Mille and became one of
Hollywood’s most sought after cinematographers, especially by
leading ladies who glowed under his low-key luminosities. (Hedy Lamarr, for example, in “ Algiers ”).  Howe started out as a boxer, so perhaps it’s not surprising
he came up with the idea of shooting John Garfield’s prizefight
scenes in Robert Rossen’s “ Body and Soul ” (1947) on roller
skates. The dynamism of those scenes would be unmatched until
 Martin Scorsese ’s “ Raging Bull ” (1980). Michael Chapman’s
cinematography for that film is virtually a homage to Howe.  Stripped-Down  Howe also had a highly productive collaboration with
director Martin Ritt on “ Hud ” (1963), which, though it doesn’t
derive from Hemingway, closely approximates the stripped-down
elegance of his prose. He imparted a lush gravity to Ritt’s
underrated “ The Molly Maguires ” (1970), starring  Sean Connery 
as an Irish mineworker in  Pennsylvania .  Gordon Willis’s cinematography on  Francis Ford Coppola ’s
“ The Godfather ” (1972) and “ The Godfather Part II ” (1974)
earned him his nickname, the Prince of Darkness, but never was
darkness used to greater metaphorical effect. Corruption and
redemption were rendered in tonalities Caravaggio might have
envied.  Like so many of the finest cinematographers, Willis was
highly influenced by the great painters. This influence reached
its apotheosis in Herbert Ross’s extraordinary 1930s-style
musical “ Pennies From Heaven ” (1981), which references the
work of Reginald Marsh and  Edward Hopper  (especially his all-
night diner “Night Hawks”).  ‘Annie Hall’  Willis is the same man who gave Woody Allen’s “ Annie
Hall ” (1972) a loose, sunny airiness and then, for “ Zelig ”
(1983), mimicked the drear graininess of old black-and-white
newsreel photography.  And then there is Haskell Wexler, who in Hal Ashby’s
“ Bound For Glory ” (1970) did for the Dust Bowl in color what
Toland had done for it in black and white. Employing a vibrant,
wide-ranging palette, he somehow managed to make poverty still
look like poverty.  In a more commercial vein, Wexler’s use of eye-popping
colors heightened Norman Jewison’s “ In the Heat of the Night ”
(1967) and “ The Thomas Crown Affair ” (1968). He could light a
studio set with the best of them, as in  Mike Nichols ’s black-
and-white “ Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf ” (1966), for which
Wexler won an Oscar. At the opposite extreme is his hand-held,
free-form guerilla filmmaking style in “ Medium Cool ” (1969),
which he also directed.  Directors are often -- and mistakenly -- credited with
being the sole “authors” of a movie. Cinematographers know
different.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own).  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on  Venice  and
 Craig Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this subject:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  