-- A Russian Corruption Fighter’s $3 Million Apartment
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-03-12T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/a-russian-corruption-fighter-s-3-million-apartment.html
Talk about the fox guarding the
chicken coop: The Russian parliament’s chief corruption fighter
has been accused of failing to declare a $3 million apartment in
Moscow. It’s the latest in a series of “outings” by Russia’s
anarchic opposition, bizarrely coinciding with President
 Vladimir Putin ’s own anti-corruption campaign.  On March 11, the anti-Putin weekly New Times  reported  that
Irina Yarovaya, head of the parliament’s Security and Corruption
Fighting Committee, was living in an apartment worth $2,898,000,
registered in the name of her 17-year-old daughter. The condo,
expensive even by the standards of Moscow’s overheated property
market, never appeared on the parliament member’s obligatory
declarations. Neither Yarovaya nor her businessman husband have
ever declared income that would have allowed them to buy prime
real estate in Russia’s capital.  Opposition media and bloggers immediately picked up the
story, which had a special attraction due to Yarovaya’s
political history. A native of the remote Kamchatka region, she
was deputy head of the opposition Yabloko party until she
switched allegiance to Putin’s  United Russia  in 2007. Yabloko
leader  Sergei Mitrokhin   recalled : “By the end of her career in
Yabloko she became deputy head of the party. She did nothing
remarkable in that position but she asked for a transfer to
Moscow, an apartment and a car. Naturally, we did not have the
money for any of that. United Russia did.”  Crusading blogger Alexei Navalny, also once a Yabloko
functionary, gleefully  reposted  the New Times story, commenting:
“I remember her at the party convention screaming from the stand
about what a scoundrel and disgusting thief Putin was. United
Russia was something straight out of hell, according to her.”  Yarovaya is one of the most active United Russia members in
parliament. She has backed all the repressive laws passed in the
first year of Putin’s third term in power. She also wants to be
seen as a tough corruption fighter: Yarovaya has proposed a bill
instituting spending controls for parliament deputies and top
officials. Such a catch seemed beyond the opposition’s wildest
dreams.  What the New Times did to Yarovaya has a name: pekhting.
 Coined  in June 2012 to describe the proceedings of the
parliament’s ethics commission, then headed by Vladimir Pekhtin,
the term became popular last month when Pekhtin was forced to
resign his seat after revelations that he owned undeclared real
estate in  Florida .  The ethics chief was “outed” by a diligent blogger calling
himself Doctor Z. His  blog  is completely dedicated to digging up
dirt on ranking United Russia members and Russian government
officials. Doctor Z’s discoveries include several cases of
plagiarism in politicians’ doctoral theses and a number of well-
researched exposes featuring undeclared property.  Doctor Z  claims  to have run the names of all the Russian
parliamentary deputies through U.S. property registers. He
promises more revelations.  “The very fact that Mr. Pekhtin has quit his post as the
most ethical parliament deputy means that my work is not without
results. The system is beginning to give up its own people,” the
mysterious blogger told  Novaya Gazeta  in a Skype interview.
“Putin probably understands that by giving up these people, he
becomes weaker. But if he doesn’t give them up, a bigger wave of
protest could start.”  After Pekhtin’s  resignation , two more United Russia members
voluntarily gave up their seats without waiting for the
opposition to move against them. Putin’s spin doctors have tried
to present the developments as part of the president’s cleansing
campaign, which started late last year with the firing of
Defense Minister Anatoly Serdyukov following a corruption
scandal.  “Pekhtin’s decision to give up his mandate is a
continuation of the anti-corruption campaign that the president
initiated,” political analyst  Sergei Markov   told  the website
actualcomment.ru. “Many doubted its efficiency, but now we see
concrete results.”  The unexpected entente between Putin and his opponents in
the matter of curbing Russia’s rampant corruption does not mean,
however, that every time the opposition digs something up, the
Kremlin is going to act on it.  Yarovaya, for her part, has fought back and kept her
parliament seat. She explained that in 2006, when the apartment
was purchased, it had cost much less than $3 million and that
according to laws in effect at the time, it did not have to be
declared. Now, it belongs to her daughter who is no longer a
minor, so again no law requires the parliament deputy to declare
it.  “I can only sympathize sincerely with my ill-wishers who,
acting in bad faith, tried to discredit me,” Yarovaya  told  the
state-owned news agency RIA Novosti. “They failed. All this is
just a dirty insinuation.”  Even anti-Putin commentators had to admit that, according
to the letter of the law, she was blameless. All they could do
was point out the ethically murky nature of her explanations.
“You can say what you want, but Yarovaya lives in an apartment
that she can never afford on a parliament deputy’s income,”
columnist Anton Orekh  said  on Ekho Moskvy radio. “Even if
everything is legally OK, in fact we are dealing with deception
and such a person has no right to remain a deputy.”  As he attempts to hijack the opposition’s anti-corruption
agenda, Putin is ever conscious that he cannot concede too much.
In his Moscow, there must never be the tiniest hint of a doubt
as to who is boss and who does the punishing. In other words,
 Russia ’s place near the bottom of Transparency International’s
corruption perceptions index -- at number 133 in the world --
remains secure.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 