-- Accused Movie Shooter May Face Exam If He Pleads Insanity
-- B y   J e f f   K a s s   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-03-12T18:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/accused-movie-shooter-may-face-exam-if-he-pleads-insanity.html
A  Colorado  judge entered a not-
guilty plea on behalf of James Holmes, who is accused of opening
fire in a movie theater in July and killing 12 people.  Judge William Sylvester took the action today in state
court in Centennial, in suburban Denver. Prosecutors said they
will inform the judge by April 1 whether they will seek the
death penalty.  Sylvester set a date of Aug. 5 for a four-week trial.
Holmes, in jail garb and wearing a full beard, didn’t address
the court.  The judge entered the plea at Holmes’s arraignment because
a defense lawyer, Daniel King, said his client wasn’t ready to
plead. The defense doesn’t know when it will be ready, King
said. Defenders have said they are considering an insanity plea.  If prosecutors ask for the death penalty Holmes may become
the first capital defendant to challenge the constitutionality
of the state’s insanity-defense laws.  Sylvester told Holmes yesterday in a written order that, if
he pleads insanity, he must submit to a mental examination.  The trial probably would be delayed by defense challenges
to aspects of Colorado law such as allowing interviews of a
defendant under the influence of a so-called truth serum, said
 Karen Steinhauser , an ex-Denver prosecutor in private practice.  Unique Case  “We have not had an insanity plea in a case in which the
death penalty has been sought,” Steinhauser said.  Defense lawyers have challenged a provision of the law
blocking Holmes from calling witnesses to present evidence about
his mental condition if he doesn’t cooperate with court-
appointed psychiatrists, she said.  Sylvester previously decided that the constitutional issues
aren’t before the court and declined to rule on them. They are
likely to be litigated if prosecutors seek the death penalty,
Steinhauser said.  “Once that decision is made, I think the defense will ask
for reconsideration of the issues that were raised in their
original motions pertaining to the death penalty sentencing
phase,” she said.  Steinhauser said Holmes’s lawyers may still argue that he
isn’t competent to stand trial, which would put the case on hold
until he’s evaluated.  DA, Defense  Lisa Pinto, a spokeswoman for the Arapahoe County district
attorney’s office, declined to comment on the arraignment. Doug
Wilson, head of Colorado’s public defender’s office, didn’t
return a call yesterday seeking comment on the case.  Sylvester ruled in January that the government established
probable cause that Holmes committed the crimes of which he’s
accused. Holmes, who studied neuroscience at the University of
Colorado, Denver, is charged with 166 counts, including murder
and attempted murder.  According to the judge’s ruling yesterday, prosecutors may
require Holmes to submit to a “narcoanalytic interview” under
the influence of “medically appropriate” drugs.  Such drugs can enable a person to recall something he is
having difficulty remembering, Steinhauser said. Holmes’s
lawyers have asked whether his refusal to take the drugs would
amount to non-cooperation.  If Holmes fails to cooperate, Sylvester said, he will bar
his lawyers from calling a psychiatrist or any other witness to
present evidence about his mental condition.  Non-Cooperation’s Impact  Any refusal to cooperate may result in any confessions,
admissions and circumstantial evidence from the shooting being
used as evidence, according to the order.  Prosecutors and defenders sparred over the defense’s need
for more time to enter a plea.  Deputy District Attorney Karen Pearson objected to any
delay, saying it has been eight months since the shooting. It’s
“disingenuous” of the defense to ask for a delay since the
lawyers acknowledge that even if the judge had answered all
their questions, they still couldn’t give a date for when they
would be ready, she said.  Pearson said the defense “already spent a great deal of
time on this issue” and accomplished little in the two months
since a January preliminary hearing.  “At some point, this case has to move forward,” Pearson
said.  King replied, “We’ve made significant progress, and we
continue to. We’re just not ready yet.”  Parents Attend  Holmes’ parents, who have not typically attended hearings,
sat on the side of the courtroom on the side reserved for news
media and near the front.  His father, with a white goatee, glasses and plaid shirt,
occasionally glanced at the side reserved for victims and their
families. None showed signs that they noticed the parents.  Holmes’s lawyers have raised “very legitimate issues”
about Colorado law governing a guilty plea by reason of
insanity, Steinhauser, the ex-prosecutor, said. “Can you really
preclude the defense from calling witnesses” who may offer
testimony that might save a defendant’s life, she asked.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kass in state court in Centennial, Colorado, 
at  kassj@msn.com ;
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 