-- Lack of Cow Milkers for Yogurt Drives Immigration Debate
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-03-12T17:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/lack-of-cow-milkers-for-yogurt-drives-immigration-debate.html
The  Alpina Foods Inc.  plant that
just opened in Batavia, New York, to feed the nation’s growing
appetite for Greek-style yogurt should have nearby dairy farmers
such as Matt Lamb scrambling to expand their herds.  It isn’t -- and not because cows are in short supply. Lamb
says he’s reluctant to add to his family’s 5,000-cow dairy
operation for fear he won’t have enough workers to milk them
every day. That’s partly due, he says, to U.S. immigration laws
that were designed for seasonal farm laborers instead of the
year-round, seven-days-a-week ones he needs.  “There’s a true lack of warm bodies to do the work in this
industry,” said the 36-year-old Lamb, walking through softly
falling snow and nearly ankle-deep mud toward one of his milking
parlors. “We have Americans who can do this work, but without
the immigrants we won’t have enough. Businesses will fail, and
prices will rise.”  The labor shortfall has the bipartisan group of U.S.
senators vowing to ensure dairy interests will be reflected in
the revamp of immigration laws they are trying to craft.
Senators including New York Democrat Charles Schumer, who has
pledged to make his state a hub of Greek yogurt production, say
they are trying to ensure a reliable supply for companies
including  Dean Foods Co. (DF) , the country’s biggest milk producer.  Record Production  Ultimately their efforts could falter as have past attempts
to retool the nation’s laws on foreign workers. President Barack Obama has been pressing senators to complete their measure this
month, and has said he’ll release his immigration rewrite if
they don’t reach a timely agreement.  The nation’s 9.2 million dairy cows last year produced more
than 200 billion pounds of milk, a record that equates to more
than three cups a day for every American, and the sector is
expected to generate  $38.5 billion  in sales this year, up 4.2
percent from last year, according to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture.  New York, the  fourth-biggest  U.S. milk-producer with about
6,000 dairies, increasingly depends on immigrant labor to tend
its cows, joining other states led by  California , the biggest
dairy state.  A 2009 survey by Texas A&M University sponsored by the
 National Milk Producers Federation  found that about 41 percent
of dairy workers, around 57,000 people, were foreign-born, most
from Mexico. Without immigrant labor, higher wage rates and
shortages would push up retail dairy prices by 61 percent, the
study concluded.  ‘Workable Program’  Lawmakers including Schumer said in January they plan to
draft legislation that would “create a workable program to meet
the needs of America’s agricultural industry, including dairy,
to find agricultural workers when American workers are not
available.”  Backers include Democrat senators Robert Menendez of New
Jersey, Richard Durbin of  Illinois  and Michael Bennet of
 Colorado , and Republicans Marco Rubio of  Florida , Lindsey Graham
of South Carolina and John McCain and Jeff Flake of  Arizona . The
March deadline may slip into April, religious leaders said they
were told in a meeting with President  Barack Obama  last week,
and Rubio, who is spearheading the drive among the GOP, said
March 5 that he doesn’t know the timing of a formal bill.  “We’re working on it -- as soon as we have it ready,” he
said.  Low Wages  Immigration laws, last revamped in 1986, have proven among
the toughest to pass in Washington, with the most recent effort,
backed by President George W. Bush, failing in 2007. Border
security, arguments over which migrants may be offered
citizenship and what path that may take, and penalties for law-
breakers are all highly controversial potential snags gaining
support for legislation.  While the House and Senate and the Obama administration say
they’re open to reform this year, specifics so far are few.
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano today said at a
conference in  Washington  that Obama’s plan would offer “common-
sense reform that cuts down illegal border crossings by
strengthening employers’ accountability and updating our legal
immigration system.”  Critics say businesses supporting the current effort are
simply trying to keep wages low for an easy-to-exploit
workforce.  Supply, Demand  “They can never adequately explain why they can’t raise
wages,” said Eric Ruark, research director for the Federation
for American Immigration Reform in Washington. “If there’s a
labor shortage, you raise wages. That’s classic supply-and-
demand. Maximizing profits for the producer should not be the
main goal of our food system.”  In New York, most of the state’s dairies began hiring
immigrants after 2000, as native-born workers took jobs in
construction or service industries, a separate study by Cornell
University in Ithaca found. On average, the workers, mostly from
 Mexico  and  Guatemala , worked 62 hours a week, though employees
surveyed said they’d work longer if they could.  “The milk produced in New York comes from farms that have
grown way beyond the capacity of family labor,” said Andy
Novakovic, a professor of agricultural economics at Cornell.
“Maybe you only need one or two immigrants, but as soon as you
employ them you run into hiring issues. If immigration officers
show up one day and your milking crew is on a bus to a detention
center, what are you going to do that day? There’s a tough
balance between getting the job done and playing by the rules.”  60 Cows  Lamb began hiring foreign-born labor about a decade ago, as
fewer U.S.-born workers became available. The shift was gradual,
he said. As  farms  grew larger and there were fewer farming
families whose children traditionally supplied work, immigrants
filled the need, he said.  Lamb talked while standing next to a circular platform upon
which 60 cows rotated while five workers handled the pumps that
draw milk from the animal’s udders. The milkers get $10 an hour,
with health benefits after three months, he said. Higher wages
would eliminate his already thin profit margins -- and still
wouldn’t guarantee he could compete with employers offering less
backbreaking jobs, he said.  “We do a disservice when we say Americans won’t do this
work, because it’s not true,” said Lamb, a co-owner of Lamb
Farms Inc. “We have a small labor pool to begin with” in a
rural area, he said. “Without the immigrants, there simply
wouldn’t be enough labor to go around. Already with the yogurt
plant, the dairies, we’re all just shuffling the same people
around.”  Guest Workers  The main legal immigration route for farmworkers is the
 H-2A agricultural  guest-worker program, which is designed to
provide farmers with workers to handle harvests. H-2A work under
federal rules must be “of a temporary (or seasonal) nature,”
meaning it’s done during specific times of the year, usually
when crops are collected, or for a limited period of less than
one year when an employer can show that the need for immigrants
is short-term. The regulations make no exception for the
nation’s  65,000 dairies , which produce continuously year-round.  About 55,000 workers gained such visas in 2011, 94 percent
of them Mexicans, according to a  Government Accountability
Office report . H-2A critics including the American Farm Bureau
Federation, the biggest U.S. farmer group, say the visa’s
compliance rules are too onerous.  Job Ads  The regulations require employers to buy newspaper and
radio advertisements to prove that efforts to hire domestic
workers were unsuccessful. That slows hiring and increases
costs, farmers say. Once a foreign worker arrives, the employer
must pay the government-set prevailing wage and provide housing.  Such rules are necessary to protect against exploitation of
workers, said Giev Kashkooli, legislative director for the
United Farm Workers, which supports immigration reform while
warning against solutions it considers too pro-business. Dairy’s
year-round nature makes it challenging to distinguish between
temporary and permanent needs, he said.  Still, “we want the same thing for dairy we want for
fruits and vegetables,” he said in an interview. “We want
legal citizens to have a chance at those jobs, to make sure that
everyone has equal treatment and that you want to protect
wages,” he said. Ideally, workers wouldn’t be tied to a single
employer. “Having a worker able to leave their job without a
penalty would be very powerful,” he said.  Potatoes, Cabbage  Maureen Torrey, whose family has farmed in the U.S. since
the 1600s, employs both dairy and fresh-produce workers a dozen
miles up the road from Lamb, near Elba. Along with milk, her
7,000 acres also yield potatoes, cabbage and onions stored and
shipped to grocery chains including  Kroger Co. (KR)  While she uses
H-2A visas for the 250 additional laborers she needs to harvest
her vegetables, that doesn’t help with dairy, she said, because
“you can’t switch people from job to job,” she said.  Both Lamb and Torrey, who has testified before Congress on
migrant labor, have undergone audits from the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement arm of the Department of Homeland Security,
in which worker papers are matched with official records.  Under federal law, farm employers are not required to
verify the authenticity of documents produced by workers, and in
fact are forbidden from questioning applicants whose papers
appear genuine. Still, they are held to a standard  of good faith 
in hiring. If an audit shows irregularities, workers can be
detained and employment ended, and an employer can face criminal
charges.  Because of the grey areas in current rules, “people either
don’t come to work, or they live in fear every day,” said
Torrey. “And we live in fear, because we have no other
options” than to rely on migrant labor.  One audit, in 2010, took away more than a third of Lamb’s
workforce, pushing him to rely more on native-born labor. “I
can find them, but they drive past farms filled with immigrants
to get here,” said Lamb.  He said he appreciates the U.S. citizens he’s been able to
find. Still, “I fear for my future if that’s my sole source of
labor,” he said. And his difficulties finding and retaining
workers has made him reluctant to make any changes to his
business until he knows he has a stable workforce.  “Mentally, we’re exhausted and drained,” he said. “We
have no interest in expansion until this gets solved.  ‘‘This is No. 1 for us.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  