-- Agile Chairman Chen Indecent Assault Charge Withdrawn, RTHK Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-12T09:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/agile-chairman-chen-indecent-assault-charge-withdrawn-rthk-says.html
Charges against Chen Zhuo Lin,
chairman of  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. (3383) , were withdrawn by the
prosecution, Radio Television Hong Kong reported today.  Chen had two indecent assault charges withdrawn, and is
bound by a HK$2,000 ($258) good behavior bond for one year, RTHK
reported on its website. He was ordered to pay HK$2,000 in court
costs and will not have a criminal record, according to the
report.  The founder of the Chinese developer in which JPMorgan
Chase & Co. owns a stake was formally charged with indecent
assault in Hong Kong on Jan. 8.  Chen was first arrested by police in the city in August in
connection with an allegation of indecent assault and faced two
counts, according to a statement from Agile in January. The
developer will release a statement through the Hong Kong Stock
Exchange later today, public relations officer Samson Chan said.
Kit Hung, an information officer at the Department of Justice,
could not immediately comment on the case.  Agile  shares  have lost 21 percent since Chen was charged,
compared with a 3.1 percent decline in the Hang Seng Property
Index in the period.  The company, based in the southern Chinese city of
Guangzhou, was started by Chen in 1992 with capital from the
furniture business he founded almost a decade earlier. The
developer’s first project was holiday homes aimed at Hong Kong
buyers. It began targeting local Chinese buyers after the city’s
economy was damped by the 1997 Asian financial crisis.  Chen and his wife Luk Sin Fong hold 2.19 billion shares, or
63.58 percent of Agile, worth $3.3 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Luk is the company’s vice chairman
and co-president.  JPMorgan, with 4.83 percent of the company, is the second-
biggest shareholder, after Chen’s family, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  