-- AIG Impairments Top $600 Million as Elderly Outlast Lifespan Bet
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-03-12T04:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/aig-impairments-top-600-million-as-elderly-outlast-lifespan-bet.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
had more than $600 million in impairments since the end of 2010
on death-benefits bets as the company was stuck paying insurance
premiums for people who lived longer than the firm expected.  The insurer recorded $309 million of impairments in 2012
and $312 million in 2011, AIG said in its annual report last
month. So-called life-settlement contracts let investors buy
insurance policies from individuals and pay the premiums until
those people die. The arrangement is less profitable for AIG the
longer a person survives, the opposite of traditional life
coverage sold by the firm, in which early deaths hurt results.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  has more recently
added bets on home loans as he refocuses the investment
portfolio. He said in 2011 that New York-based AIG reviewed the
life contracts and that “this is not an area we’re going to be
emphasizing.” It can be difficult to sell the holdings, said
Gary Brown, CEO of CMG Life Services Inc.  “It’s truly almost always a buyer’s market,” Brown,
whose firm oversees contracts with a face value of more than $5
billion for institutional clients, said yesterday at an industry
conference in  New York . “You’ve got to hold to maturity. You
can’t plan on this being freely tradable.”  AIG had 5,673 policies with a carrying value of about $4.2
billion at the end of 2012, compared with 5,901 policies carried
at $4 billion a year earlier, and 2,632 policies worth about
$1.6 billion at the end of 2007  Investors like AIG gain if the death benefit exceeds the
purchase price and cost of maintaining a policy. The value of
the contracts is reduced when AIG determines that a person will
live longer than expected. The insurer doesn’t restate the value
higher if it expects the contract to be more profitable,  Peter Hancock , head of AIG’s property-casualty business, said on a
2011 conference call.  Management’s Intent  Some of the impairments stem from AIG’s increased use of
medical information starting in 2011 to determine the contracts’
value, according to the filing. The insurer also recorded
impairments because of a “change in management’s intent about
continuing to hold certain life-settlement contracts,” the
document shows. Jon Diat, an AIG spokesman, declined to comment.  “In some cases, this updated information indicates that an
individual’s health has improved, resulting in an impairment
loss due to revised estimates of net cash flows from the related
contract,” according to the Feb. 21 filing.  “You’re betting against mortality  improvements , typically,
and that’s not been a good bet,” said Paul Newsome, an analyst
at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP. “It’s a tough business for
everybody.”  Strategic Review  Impairments of $309 million on the death-benefit bets last
year were about 7.4 percent of the assets at the end of 2012.
That compares with impairments on bonds available for sale of
$723 million, or about 0.3 percent of the $270 billion
portfolio.  The insurer’s life-settlement impairments climbed from $74
million in 2010. Income on the life-settlement contracts was
$253 million in 2012 and $320 million a year earlier.  AIG “completed a very deep strategic review of what we’re
doing here,” Benmosche said on an Aug. 5, 2011, conference call
with analysts. “We’re studying this as an asset class, and we
don’t think it’s something we’re going to be growing.”
Benmosche became the insurer’s CEO in August 2009.  The secondary market for U.S. life policies emerged in the
1980s when the AIDS epidemic led some patients to sell their
insurance policies to pay for treatment.  The assets appeal to investors because returns aren’t tied
to fluctuations in stocks or bonds, said Bill Taylor, who
oversaw life-settlement bets at AIG until last year, when he
left to lead Miravast LLC, which is raising capital to invest in
the contracts. Taylor, who spoke by phone, declined to discuss
AIG’s portfolio.  Institutional Capital  The market for the contracts may expand as people sell
their policies to raise money for health care as they grow
older, Alan Buerger, CEO of Coventry, said yesterday at the
conference.  “There’s more institutional capital interested in
investing in this asset, this non-correlated asset, than ever
before,” said Buerger, whose company helped create the
secondary market for  life insurance .  The face value of life-settlement policies industrywide
climbed to  $35 billion  at the end of 2011 from $4.2 billion in
2003, according to Conning & Co., a Hartford, Connecticut-based
research firm. AIG’s policies had a face value of $17.7 billion
at the end of 2012, compared with $18.1 billion a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  