-- Eurostar Extends Cancelations as Snow Hits Frankfurt Flights
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-12T18:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/air-france-klm-hit-by-snow-as-cancellations-spread-to-lufthansa.html
Snowfalls that crippled road, rail
and air travel in northern  Europe  today have prompted Eurostar
Group Ltd. to scrap eight services tomorrow as transport links
including  Frankfurt airport  struggle to return to normal.  Eurostar canceled two trains in each direction between
 London  and Paris and London and Brussels, spokeswoman Lucy Drake
said by telephone. With tomorrow’s services already full,
passengers can only rebook for travel from March 14, she added.  The Channel Tunnel express operator shut down soon after
noon today, citing “severe weather conditions overnight in
northern  France  and  Belgium .” More than 350 flights at Europe’s
third-busiest airport were also canceled before owner Fraport AG
suspended operations, with limited services resuming later.  “A high-pressure area north of Britain is pulling in the
cold from  Russia  and that’s colliding with a large area of low
pressure over northern France,” said Helen Chivers, a forecaster
at the U.K.  Met Office . “Where the two meet you’re getting a
lot of snow because the air coming from the north is so cold.”  Hundreds of people were stuck at St Pancras station,
Eurostar’s London terminus, with many abandoning their trips
before the company finally shuttered the service amid continued
blizzards on the continent.  De-Icing  While  Frankfurt ’s runways were being continuously cleared,
the snow didn’t allow for safe operations, Fraport spokesman
Matthias Nossek said. Services were halted before noon, with
limited takeoffs resuming from 2:20 p.m. local time on a single
runway and incoming flights suspended until at least 9 p.m.  A lack of available parking stands and de-icing capacity
limited the airport’s ability to resume services, air traffic
supervisory agency Eurocontrol said on its website.  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest carrier, scrapped almost
400 flights before 3 p.m., mostly from Dusseldorf and Frankfurt.  French authorities preemptively grounded one-quarter of
services at Paris’s  Charles de Gaulle  airport, the second-
busiest in the region.  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , Europe No. 1
carrier, said on its website that 35 percent of short- and
medium-haul operations would be canceled at the hub, and at
least a fifth of flights were also scrapped at Paris Orly.  No early cancellations have been initiated for tomorrow,
said Eric Heraud, a French civil aviation authority spokesman.  Gatwick Glitch  Local rail services were also hit, with SNCF asking people
to avoid travel to Paris, while trains to London’s Gatwick
Airport suffered short-notice cancellations because of stock
displacement, National Rail said.  The network south of the U.K. capital also suffered signal
failures as switches at junctions had to be cleared of snow
after widespread heavy falls, according to the body, which
represents Britain’s 20 or so train-operating companies.  Channel Tunnel owner  Groupe Eurotunnel SA (GET)  said its vehicle
shuttles, which pick up and set down at either end of the subsea
link, were still running, though trucks were stood in line at
the U.K. end because of concern about road conditions in France.  Dozens of motorists slept in their cars in southern  England 
after as much as six inches of snow fell, while at least 100
vehicles were involved in a pileup in poor weather on the A45
highway north of Frankfurt, injuring several dozen people,
 Deutsche Presse-Agentur  reported.  French Jam  About 600 vehicles were stuck overnight on the A16 in the
Nord Pas-de-Calais region north of Paris, with 100 still at a
standstill today,  Agence France-Presse  said. Some 70,000 homes
in northwest France also lost power as a result of the snowfall.  Meteo France, the country’s weather service, placed 29
districts in the north on “orange” alert before moving two of
them -- La Manche and Calvados -- to “red” status, forecasting
average falls of between 5 and 15 centimeters (2 to 6 inches).
In Normandy, wind-blown drifts reached a depth of 1.5 meters.  The high winds that brought the snow also caused moderate
to severe delays at  London Heathrow , Europe’s top hub, according
to Eurocontrol.  Operations at London City, close to the U.K. capital’s
financial district, were slowed by the wind and also affected by
de-icing work, though  Stansted  to the north, the biggest base
for  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , said its runway was clear.  Ferry Adrift  On the water, a ferry from Rosslare, Ireland, to Cherbourg,
France, carrying 500 passengers failed in four attempts to dock
due to heavy winds and the sea swell, with one crew member
suffering a broken leg,  Irish Continental Group Plc (IR5A)  said in a
statement. A further attempt to land was to be made today.  Brussels airport said mid-morning that it was open, though
experiencing some delays, diversions and cancellations for de-
icing and snow-clearing operations.  The cold snap has sent temperatures across Europe plunging
below seasonal norms, according to CustomWeather Inc. data on
Bloomberg. Frankfurt will average minus 3 degrees Celsius, or 5
degrees below the 10-year average, while the same forecast for
Paris is about 8 degrees below the usual mid-March reading.  In northern  Germany , temperatures could fall as low as
minus 10 degrees, forecaster Deutscher Wetterdienst said on its
website. In the U.K., a low of minus 2 degrees is predicted for
London, versus a 3-degree seasonal norm, CustomWeather said.  Strong winds are also forecast across western Europe,
including gales in Britain, with warmer temperatures and light
breezes anticipated from March 15, according to the Met Office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  