-- Malaysia Says It Killed Rebel General, Muslim Clan Disputes
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-03-12T12:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/malaysia-kills-rebel-general-as-police-see-insurgency-subsiding.html
Malaysian forces said they killed a
top commander of a Muslim armed group from the  Philippines  that
invaded Sabah, a claim disputed by the clan as violence
continued in the monthlong struggle over ownership of the
commodities-rich state.  Haji Musa, a general from the Royal Army of the Sulu
Sultanate, was killed yesterday, Hamza Taib, Sabah’s police
chief, said in a televised media briefing. Abraham Idjirani, a
spokesman for Sulu Sultan Jamalul Kiram, said by phone that the
general was “very much alive.”  A Malaysian soldier and three insurgents were shot dead in
a gunfight this morning, Defense Minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi
said in a mobile text message to  Bloomberg News  today, bringing
the death toll to more than 60 people this month. Kiram’s
followers invaded Sabah to assert a centuries-old ownership
claim over the state.  The incursion has been a distraction for Prime Minister
Najib Razak as he prepares for polls that will determine whether
his National Front coalition can extend its 55-year grip on
power. He’ll probably dissolve parliament by the end of this
month for elections after raising civil servants’ salaries,
analysts including  Ibrahim Suffian  said.  “Najib has gotten a boost through his handling of the
insurgency,” Ibrahim, an analyst at the Merdeka Center for
Opinion Research, said today in a phone interview. “It has
increased patriotism in the country. At the same time, pay rises
will help secure a traditional base of support among civil
servants and their families.”  The prime minister must dissolve parliament by April 28,
after which the Election Commission is required to hold a vote
within 60 days. Deputy Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin arrived
in Sabah today to visit the operations center.  Land Claim  The FTSE Bursa  Malaysia  KLCI Index has fallen 2.2 percent
after closing at a record on Jan. 7 on concern the National
Front could lose seats in the election. The benchmark,  Asia ’s
worst performer this year, closed 0.1 percent down in Kuala
Lumpur today. The ringgit has dropped 1.7 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A Philippine Muslim group loyal to Jamalul Kiram, the 74-
year-old Sultan of Sulu, invaded on Feb. 12. The sultanate,
which dates back to about the 15th century, says it leased Sabah
to the British North Borneo Company in 1878, an agreement that
Malaysia views as a secession of the region. Sabah fell under
British control after World War II and joined Malaysia in 1963,
shortly after the sultanate ceded sovereignty to the
Philippines.  More than 50 militants have been killed since the start of
the unrest, Hamza said on television today. Eight police
officers died in earlier fighting.  ‘Choose Wisely’  Najib yesterday raised salaries of civil servants,
including police and the armed forces, costing the government
1.5 billion ringgit ($483 million).  “I hope with all this, all of you will choose wisely and
make the right decision in the coming general election,” Najib
said when announcing the initiative yesterday in Putrajaya, the
country’s administrative center near  Kuala Lumpur .  The government has also been distributing a second round of
500-ringgit cash handouts to low-income households as the
election draws near.  “It’s no longer a matter of good timing or not, he just
doesn’t have a choice any more,” Wan Saiful Wan Jan, chief
executive officer of the Institute for Democracy and Economic
Affairs, said by phone today. “Everyone is saying that he will
dissolve the parliament. The likelihood is by the end of this
month, so the element of surprise is completely gone by now.”  Najib’s approval rating fell to 61 percent in early
February in a survey conducted before fighting began in Sabah,
from 63 percent at the end of December, the Merdeka Center said
Feb. 26.  “My sense is that it will be by the end of March,” said
Ong Kian Ming, a political analyst at UCSI University in Kuala
Lumpur and an election strategist for the opposition Democratic
Action Party. “March 25 seems like a possible date.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  