-- Ally Will Sell Mortgage Servicing Rights to Ocwen Financial
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-03-12T15:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/ally-will-sell-mortgage-servicing-rights-to-ocwen-financial-1-.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the only
lender that missed a key benchmark in the  Federal Reserve ’s
stress tests last week, agreed to sell agency mortgage servicing
rights to  Ocwen (OCN)  Financial Corp. for about $585 million.  The sale covers rights to $85 billion of unpaid principal
balance and $5 billion of rights based on commitments through
the end of February, according to a statement today from the
Detroit-based firm.  Ally benefited from more than $17 billion in U.S. bailouts
during the financial crisis and plans to repay the funds with an
initial public offering. The U.S.  owns  a 74 percent stake. Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter  has put the IPO on hold
until the fate of the bankrupt Residential Capital mortgage
business is clear. The case has been delayed by disputes over
whether Ally must pay for refunds to investors on faulty loans.  The Ocwen deal will insulate Ally from such claims on most
of the loans covered by the sale, the bank said. Ally also has
the right to sell Ocwen the remaining $30 billion servicing
portfolio.  “Ally has received interest in this portfolio from other
financial institutions and is currently evaluating the best
option,” the company said. The bank plans to focus on its
direct-banking and auto finance operations, Barbara Yastine,
chief executive officer of the Ally Bank unit, said in the
statement.  Fannie, Freddie  Mortgage servicers handle billing and collections, and
oversee  foreclosures  when borrowers don’t pay. Agency servicing
covers government-backed buyers such as  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac . The deal with Ocwen, based in West Palm Beach, Florida, is
subject to approval by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, according to
the statement.  Ally had a capital ratio of 1.5 percent in last week’s
stress test, below the 5 percent threshold regarded as adequate
by industry analysts. The bank disputed the Fed’s results,
calling the analysis “fundamentally flawed.”  The company predicted its capital ratio would be 5.7
percent under the Fed’s scenario. Last week’s results were a
prelude to the Fed’s capital-plan review of the same banks
scheduled for release on March 14, which determines whether they
can increase dividends and stock buybacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  