-- American Wins Approval of Republic Regional-Service Deal
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-03-12T20:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/american-wins-approval-of-republic-deal-for-regional-jet-flying.html
American Airlines (AAMRQ) , the carrier
reorganizing in bankruptcy, won court approval of an agreement
for  Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET)  to operate regional jets for
American.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in Manhattan today approved
the deal under which Republic will fly 47 Embraer SA E-175 76-
seat aircraft for AMR Corp.’s American. Financial terms were
redacted in court documents.  The agreement is part of American’s efforts to diversify
suppliers of commuter flights beyond its American Eagle unit and
to add larger regional jets that are more economical to operate
at higher fuel prices. American, which plans to merge with  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , was exploring a spinoff of Eagle when it
filed for bankruptcy in November 2011.  American Eagle doesn’t operate 76-seat jets and “could not
realistically purchase or gain access to such aircraft within
the timeframe required,” American said in court papers.  Lane overruled objections to the agreement from unions at
American Eagle. American, based in  Fort Worth , Texas,
established that the agreement is a  “sound exercise” of its
business judgment, Lane said.  “The increased use of regional jets has been front and
center in this case for some time,” the judge said.  One benefit of the agreement is that Republic will acquire
aircraft without financing support from American, Alfredo Perez,
an attorney for American, said in court.  Republic, based in Indianapolis, said in January that it
signed an agreement with Brazilian aircraft manufacturer Embraer
to purchase 47 new planes.  The case is in re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  