-- Man Fund-of-Hedge-Funds Unit Expects Best Return Since 2009
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-03-12T10:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/man-fund-of-hedge-funds-unit-expects-best-return-since-2009.html
Financial Risk Management Ltd., a
unit of the world’s  largest  publicly traded hedge-fund manager
 Man Group Plc (EMG) , may see the best return from its multistrategy
funds of funds since 2009, said its chief investment officer.  Pools investing in  hedge funds  that trade different asset
classes using various strategies may return 8.5 percent this
year, as appetite increases for risky assets and markets move
less in lockstep with each other, London-based Keith Haydon said
in an interview yesterday, citing internal analysis.  Hedge-fund returns rebounded in the last four months amid
signs global economic growth is recovering and as concerns over
the  European debt crisis  abated. The  Federal Reserve  has pumped
more than $2 trillion into the financial system in three rounds
of quantitative easing since the global financial crisis of 2008,
while the U.S. unemployment rate last month dropped to the
lowest since December 2008.  “We’ve got reasons to think that central banks are
beginning to back off quantitative easing,” Haydon said. “And
there’s a slightly more positive growth picture, a more
heterogeneous one.”  FRM,  acquired  by Man Group in July, manages all of the
latter’s $16 billion of fund-of-funds assets and the seeding
business that provides capital to new managers. Haydon was put
in charge of the unit that accounts for more than a quarter of
the group’s assets after former FRM CIO Luke Ellis was  promoted 
to president of Man Group as Chief Executive Officer Emmanuel
Roman reshuffled the team to improve performance and stem six
consecutive quarters of outflows.  Diversified Funds  The HFRI Fund-Weighted Composite Index returned 6.4 percent
last year, the second-weakest performance of the last four years
behind the 5.3 percent loss in 2011 as macroeconomic
uncertainties damped  market sentiment  and returns. The index
gained 4.6 percent in the last four months amid signs of
economic recovery in the U.S., a soft landing in  China  and hopes
of stimulus in  Japan .  Of FRM’s assets, $9.5 billion were in the diversified funds
of hedge funds by the end of last year, according to Haydon. The
largest of them returned 13 percent in 2009 and 1.8 percent in
2012, he said.  The 8.5 percent expected return for this year is based on
stable markets or investors willing to take on more risks for
better returns by moving assets from the  bond market  into stocks,
Haydon said.  The  HFRI Fund of Funds Composite Index  rose 11 percent in
2009, the best in the last four years. It advanced 4.7 percent
last year. Investors in a Deutsche Bank AG survey last month
said they target returns of between 5 percent and 10 percent for
their hedge funds this year.  Buffett Deal  FRM’s diversified funds have increased allocations to
event-driven funds by 5 percentage points to 9 percent since
December, he said. Funds that make bets around both announced
and expected corporate deals may be among the best performers
this year as more confident company executives are pressured by
shareholders to make better use of their cash and private-equity
investors become more active, Haydon said.  In the past month, two blockbusters were announced: the $27
billion purchase by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and
3G Capital of ketchup maker H.J. Heinz Co., and the $24 billion
Dell Inc. takeover offer from  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake
Management LLC.  FRM mainly increased allocations to event-driven funds it
already invested in because of the difficulty of finding
managers who do not simply buy stocks of the target companies
and sell borrowed stocks in the acquirer, he said.  Quantitative Funds  FRM has also increased investments since 2009 in
quantitative market-neutral funds that hold stocks for three to
four days and have significant investments in  Asia .  The strategy is expected to benefit from the withdrawal of
bank capital and greater likelihood of stocks trading
independent of each other this year with an influx of capital to
the equity market, he said.  FRM’s seeding unit in 2010 backed San Francisco-based
Sensato Capital Management LLC, which employs a quantitative
market-neutral strategy and is run by two former co-heads of
active equity strategies at Barclays Global Investors Ltd.
Assets of the fund that trades Asian stocks using computer
models topped $1.1 billion by November.  The firm has kept its investments in Asia steady with a
mild reduction of allocations to emerging market macro funds,
said Haydon. The former macro proprietary trader at Morgan
Stanley, HSBC Holdings Plc and Deutsche Bank AG said he is
cautious about Japan trades.  “The currency has moved a long way quite quickly and I
personally think there are risks against that,” said Haydon.
“So far, the currency has moved only on rhetoric. There remains
the need to introduce policies quickly and that’s never easy in
Japan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  