-- Apollo, Metrpoulos Win Majority of Hostess Snack-Cakes
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-03-12T22:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/apollo-metrpoulos-win-majority-of-hostess-snack-cakes.html
Hostess Brands Inc., the bankrupt
maker of Wonder bread, said  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and C.
Dean Metropoulos & Co. agreed to pay $410 million for the
majority of its snack business, including its iconic Twinkies.  In a court filing last night, Hostess said the only
qualified bid received by a court deadline came from Apollo,
 Leon Black ’s private-equity firm, and Metropoulos, a  private-
equity firm that owns Pabst Brewing Co. In a statement today,
the company confirmed them as the winning bidders.  “Accordingly, pursuant to the bidding procedures order, no
auction will be conducted and buyer is the successful bidder,”
the lawyers said in a filing yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in  White Plains ,  New York .  The private-equity firms will purchase the Hostess snack-
cake business, which also includes Hostess CupCakes, Ding Dongs
and Ho Hos, along with other assets including equipment and five
bakeries.  “The agreement results in significant value for our
stakeholders,” Hostess Brands Chief Executive Officer Gregory F. Rayburn said in a statement today.  Beefsteak Brand  Grupo Bimbo SAB (BIMBOA)  won a Feb. 28 auction to buy the Beefsteak
bread brand, beating an initial bid by  Flowers Foods Inc. (FLO)  with a
$31.9 million offer. The Mexico City-based maker of Sara Lee
products, Entenmann’s cakes and Thomas English Muffins topped
Flowers’ $30 million opening offer for the rye-bread brand,
Hostess said in a Feb. 28 statement. No rivals challenged
Flowers’ $360 million bid for the majority of Hostess’s bread-
making business, including its Wonder brand, and an planned
auction was canceled.  Hostess received stalking-horse bids of more than $56
million for Drake’s and four bread brands that it plans to
auction on March 15. McKee Foods Corp., maker of Little Debbie
snacks, agreed to pay $27.5 million for Drake’s. United States
Bakery Inc. offered to buy the Sweetheart, Eddy’s, Standish
Farms and Grandma Emilie’s bread brands, four bakeries and 14
depots, plus certain equipment, for $28.9 million, according to
court papers.  The company is scheduled to seek bankruptcy court approval
to sell the assets to the auction winners at a March 19 hearing.
Hostess, founded in 1930, is liquidating after failing to reach
an agreement with striking bakers on concessions to help the
company emerge from its second bankruptcy.  Bakers’ Union  The union representing the fired bakery workers said the
bids for company brands offer no guarantees for workers.  “While the debtor’s secured lenders may view these bids as
the ‘best’ for getting themselves paid, these bids provide
minimal assurance that the rights of the debtors’ workers will
be protected,” the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and
Grain Millers International Union and its pension fund said in
court papers today.  The union and the pension fund said they “support the sale
of the debtors’ assets to companies that will commit to
preserving jobs, recognize the rights of organized labor, and
rebuild the Hostess brands.”  “Unfortunately, none of the proposed purchasers in any of
the asset sales have committed to preserve a single job,” the
union and pension fund said.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-bk-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington,  Delaware .
at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  