-- App Makers Woo Lawmakers as SXSW Conference Tackles Immigration
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-03-12T04:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/app-makers-woo-lawmakers-as-sxsw-conference-tackles-immigration.html
 As entrepreneurs and venture
capitalists swilled beer and swapped business cards at a
technology conference in Austin,  Texas ,  Kevin Callahan  hunkered
down March 9 for a closed-door meeting with Senator Jerry Moran.  Callahan, co-founder of app startup MapMyFitness Inc., was
one of a few dozen attendees of the South by Southwest
Interactive Festival -- including a Microsoft Corp.
representative -- who were invited to discuss issues, including
patent reform and immigration, with the Kansas Republican.  “It’s helpful to know I can start contributing to the
conversation now so that 3 years, 5 years, 10 years down the
line, the political factors are less of an issue in trying to
grow my business and contribute to my little slice of the
American economy,” Callahan, 36, said in an interview.  Tech’s mounting interest in shaping public policy was on
display at South by Southwest, where industry executives
including AOL Inc. co-founder  Steve Case  and Tesla Motors Inc.
Chief Executive Officer  Elon Musk  advocated for more cooperation
between Washington and Silicon Valley.  “The next generation of disruptive companies are going to
have to figure out how to interact with the government,” Case,
now the CEO of investment firm Revolution LLC, said in an
interview at the event.  Areas such as education, health care and transportation
will be transformed by “a lot of the great innovations over the
next decade,” he said, and “government is the largest buyer of
those services.”  Focused Discussion  Suited politicians such as Moran and California Republican
Representative  Darrell Issa , both panelists at the conference,
stood out amid the Austin Convention Center’s swarm of t-shirt-
and-jeans-wearing technophiles. Their attendance underscored the
rising influence of the technology industry among policymakers
eager to create jobs.  While South by Southwest has played host to discussions
about federal and local government in past years, participants
at this year’s gathering struck a more urgent tone in seeking
legislation around specific issues, said Mike McGeary, political
director and senior strategist at  Engine Advocacy , a San
Francisco-based nonprofit group that urges closer ties between
entrepreneurs and the government.  “There’s a lot more focused discussion this year on
particular issues, as opposed to politics generally,” said
McGeary, whose group advocates for issues affecting tech
companies as varied as review site Yelp Inc. and Uber
Technologies Inc., a mobile app that helps people find rides.  Immigration Proposal  McGeary helped organize the private session with Senator
Moran, who covered such topics as the industry’s desire to ease
restrictions on hiring highly skilled immigrants, Callahan said.  Moran, who also met with business leaders at last year’s
SXSW conference, said this year’s group was more knowledgeable
about issues and came prepared with more questions and ideas.  “A year ago, it was, ‘How do we get engaged?’ Moran said
in an interview. ‘‘This year, it was much more, ’We’ve been
working hard, we are connecting with policy makers in  Washington 
D.C. What issues should we be paying most attention to?’”  Moran sought support for Startup Act 3.0, proposed
 legislation  to reform the immigration process for highly skilled
workers.  Among attendees of the meeting with Moran were Tim
O’Reilly, founder and CEO of O’Reilly Media, Inc. and Andrew Rasiej, chairman of the  NY Tech Meetup . Topics discussed
included policies aimed at training more engineers in U.S.
schools.  Party Alternative  For Callahan, the meeting and other technology policy
discussions provided respite from the booze-soaked networking
rituals that pervade South By Southwest, a conference where
startups vie to host the most popular parties by hiring famous
pop music acts and carting VIPs to remote destinations in
limousines.  This year’s festivities included a party sponsored by Path
Inc. and Spotify Ltd. that featured the rock group  Jane’s
Addiction . Founders Fund LLC hosted a barbecue at an Austin
mansion known as  Britannia Manor .  “South By is great because you’re drinking from a fire
hose of ideas and inspiration,” Callahan said. “But then
you’re also getting blasted by the fire hose of the booze and
the partying.”  Calls for political change also came from several of the
festival’s most high-caliber speakers. Musk said he’s working
with government officials to build a rocket-launch station for
his company, Space Exploration Technologies Corp., and former
U.S. Vice President  Al Gore  advocated measures to protect the
freedom of  Internet users  around the world.  Crowdfunding Oversight  Case spoke about the promise of crowdfunding, a practice of
capital-raising for startups that he expects to benefit from the
oversight of the Securities & Exchange Commission. He also
recruited participants for  The March for Innovation , an online
event he helped organize to push lawmakers to pass immigration
reform.  As tech startups grow and take on new markets, events like
South by Southwest will need to adapt and provide forums for a
broader range of knowledge, Case said in the interview.  “There’s going to be a little bit of a maturing of Silicon
Valley,” he said. “As they move beyond the Internet per se,
and building Internet companies, to innovate and disrupt other
aspects of our lives and other facets of our economy, there is
going to be a need to come up to speed with how governments
work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  