-- Mike Wallace to Join Dolphins as NFL’s Free-Agent Period Begins
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-13T04:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/asomugha-fitzpatrick-are-cut-as-nfl-s-free-agent-period-begins.html
Mike Wallace  joined the Miami
Dolphins as the National Football League’s free agent signing
period began, while the Philadelphia Eagles released Pro Bowl
cornerback  Nnamdi Asomugha  and the Buffalo Bills cut starting
quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick.  Wallace, 26, was among the top free agents available when
the NFL’s new league year began at 4 p.m.  New York  time
yesterday and agreed to a five-year contract worth $60 million
to $65 million, the Miami Herald said.  “He has a unique skill set which we believe will be a
welcomed addition to our offense,” said Dolphins General
Manager Jeff Ireland who also announced the re-signing of safety
Chris Clemons.  For the past three days, teams were permitted to negotiate
with agents of the more than 500 players who became unrestricted
free agents when their 2012 contracts expired at the deadline.  Wallace scored 32 touchdowns over his first four seasons
with the Pittsburgh Steelers and joins a Dolphins team whose
receivers totaled an NFL-low three touchdowns last year.  Asomugha and Fitzpatrick joined a group of free agents that
includes wide receivers Greg Jennings and Wes Welker; running
backs Steven Jackson,  Michael Turner  and  Reggie Bush ; and pass-
rushers Dwight Freeney,  Osi Umenyiora  and  James Harrison .  ‘Difficult Decision’  Asomugha, 31, was part of the Eagles’ free-agent signing
spree in 2011 that made them a preseason Super Bowl co-favorite
of oddsmakers. They’ve struggled to a 12-20 record since,
leading to the firing of coach  Andy Reid  and the release of
starters such as  Cullen Jenkins  and Mike Patterson.  Fitzpatrick, a 30-year-old Harvard University graduate,
started all but four games for the Bills over the past three
seasons, throwing for 71 touchdowns and 54 interceptions. He had
signed a six-year, $59 million contract extension in 2011 and
was due a $3 million bonus tomorrow.  “We kept every possible option open right down to the wire
when we had to make a decision on whether to keep Ryan,”
General Manager Buddy Nix said in a statement. “In the end, we
had to do what we feel is best for our football team and it was
a very difficult decision.”  The start of the league year also allows teams to
officially complete trades. The Seattle Seahawks confirmed the
acquisition of Pro Bowl receiver Percy Harvin from the Minnesota
Vikings, while the San Francisco 49ers added wideout Anquan Boldin from the Super Bowl-champion Baltimore Ravens and sent
quarterback  Alex Smith  to the  Kansas City Chiefs .  Ravens’ Losses  In addition to Wallace, the Dolphins reached a five-year,
$35 million agreement with former Baltimore Ravens linebacker
Dannell Ellerbe, the NFL Network said. The Ravens also lost
linebacker Paul Kruger to the Cleveland Browns, further
stripping a position depleted by  Ray Lewis ’s retirement.  The Steelers lost Wallace and reached an agreement with
receiver Plaxico Burress, according to  Pro Football Talk .  The Minnesota Vikings re-signed Jerome Simpson to a one-
year contract and the Houston Texans waived Kevin Walter in
other transactions involving receivers. The Vikings also re-
signed offensive tackle Phil Loadholt and released 15-year
cornerback Antoine Winfield.  Delayed Retirement  Tony Gonzalez, who has more receptions than any tight end
in NFL history,  said on Twitter  that he’s decided to put off
retirement for one more year and return to the Atlanta Falcons.  Gonzalez, 37, has 1,242 career catches --  second all-time 
to Hall of Fame receiver  Jerry Rice  -- over 16 seasons with the
Falcons and Kansas City Chiefs. He had 93 receptions for 930
yards and eight touchdowns last year, his best season since 2008,
and also got his first career playoff win.  Pro Bowl guard Steve Hutchinson said he’s retiring after 12
seasons because his recovery from knee surgery isn’t progressing
as he hoped. Hutchinson, 35, went to seven Pro Bowls with the
Seattle Seahawks and Vikings before signing a three-year, $16
million contract with the Tennessee Titans last year. He played
12 games in 2012 before a knee injury ended his season.  The  Indianapolis Colts  signed left tackle Gosder Cherilus,
a former first-round pick who started the past five seasons for
the Detroit Lions, to provide protection on the offensive line
for quarterback  Andrew Luck .  Steelers’ Signing  The Steelers reached a multiyear agreement with linebacker
Larry Foote, while kick returner Leon Washington said he’s been
released by the Seahawks following the acquisition of Harvin.  Former New York Giants tight end Martellus Bennett agreed
to a four-year contract and former New Orleans Saints tackle
Jermon Bushrod agreed to a five-year deal with the Chicago Bears
and ESPN reported that the Tennessee Titans signed former 49ers
tight end Delanie Walker to a four-year, $17.5 million deal. The
 Cincinnati Bengals  retained their longest-tenured player by re-
signing 10th-year defensive end Robert Geathers.  As teams reshape their rosters, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers
have emerged as the most probable destination for New York Jets
All-Pro cornerback  Darrelle Revis ,  Pro Football Talk reported .  The rebuilding Jets have been looking to acquire draft
picks for Revis, who played in two games last season before
tearing a knee ligament and is seeking a contract worth as much
as $16 million annually, Pro Football Talk said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  