-- Senate Panel Set to Back Expanded Gun Background Checks
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-03-12T22:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/assault-weapons-ban-with-backing-to-languish-after-vote.html
Democrats on the Senate Judiciary
Committee approved a measure to expand background checks for the
purchase of most firearms, getting no Republican support for the
legislation that faces an uncertain fate in both chambers of the
 U.S. Congress .  The bill is the second gun-related measure to clear the
panel since the Dec. 14 shootings at an elementary school in
Newtown,  Connecticut . Committee members on March 7 endorsed
legislation that would strengthen penalties for gun trafficking.  The panel postponed until March 14 consideration of
proposals to ban assault weapons and place limits on high-
capacity ammunition magazines, both of which will be met with
strong opposition from some lawmakers.  The committee today also approved on a bipartisan basis a
measure to expand federal grants for school safety.  Lawmakers seeking strengthened gun restrictions have been
counting on public outrage after the Newtown shootings, in which
20 children and six school workers were killed, to propel their
measures.  President  Barack Obama  also is supporting the effort,
including renewal of the assault-weapons ban, which expired in
2004. Supporters, though, are finding that proposal lacks votes
in the House and the Senate, and the background-check measure
has become the centerpiece of the push.  Brady Law  Senator  Charles Schumer , the  New York  Democrat who is
author of the background-check bill, defended it shortly before
today’s vote.  “It’s sad” Schumer said, directing his remarks to the
eight Republican panel members opposing the measure. “Right
after Newtown, there was a view that maybe the right place we
could all come together on was background checks.”  Gun crimes have greatly declined since enactment of the
1993 Brady Law that created a national background-check system,
he said. “All we’re doing is extending the success of the Brady
Law to the areas it doesn’t cover,” he said.  The debate on  Capitol Hill  reflects the influence of the
 National Rifle Association , a lobby group for gun owners and
manufacturers. The NRA, which claims more than 4 million
members, has led opposition to any limitations on the ownership
of firearms, including expanded background checks.  Iowa Senator  Charles Grassley , the Judiciary panel’s top
Republican, said the background-check bill won’t be effective in
curbing gun violence because criminals won’t submit to them.  “Criminals do not comply with existing background checks
laws,” said Grassley. “We should make sure existing laws are
effective and enforced before we start enacting new ones.”  Public Support  Polls show more than half of Americans support laws
restricting access to assault weapons and high-capacity
magazines. A Quinnipiac University  poll  conducted Feb. 27 to
March 4 found that 88 percent of respondents, including 83
percent of Republicans, are in favor of background checks of gun
buyers.  Dan Gross, president of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun
Violence, said in a statement that the 1993 law has stopped more
than 2 million criminals, domestic abusers and other prohibited
purchasers from buying guns.  Gross added that 40 percent of gun purchases aren’t subject
to background checks because of loopholes involving sales at gun
shows, over the Internet, through classifieds and at flea
markets.  ‘Very Confident’  “I feel very confident there will be a background-check
bill that has Republican votes and passes both the Senate and
House,” said California Representative Mike Thompson, who heads
a panel of  House Democrats  formed to focus on curbing gun
violence.  Schumer said Grassley’s argument that background checks
shouldn’t be expanded because criminals will circumvent them
“makes no sense.”  He said he’s continuing to work with other Republicans,
including Illinois Senator  Mark Kirk , on a compromise before the
full Senate takes up a package of gun legislation, probably
early next month.  That sets up a floor confrontation as Democrats work to
keep their coalition unified in support of the measure while
picking up enough Republicans to reach the 60 Senate votes
needed to advance most major legislation.  House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, a
Virginia Republican who presides over firearm legislation in
that chamber, has said he opposes requiring universal background
checks for gun buyers and doesn’t plan to take up the issue.  Gun Registry  Many Republicans oppose background checks because they say
any new record-keeping requirements would lead to a federal gun
registry. Democrats say it’s necessary for licensed gun dealers
to keep a record so the law can be enforced and weapons found at
crime scenes can be tracked. It is against federal law for the
 Justice Department  to maintain a central record-keeping system.  “Every part of this strategy will be a tough road,” said
Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Connecticut Democrat who has been
pressing for more restrictions on gun ownership since the
Newtown shootings. “There are degrees. The steepness of the
hill will vary, but every one of them is uphill.”  Schumer’s bill would also require states and federal
agencies to do a better job of reporting the records on felons,
individuals with major mental-health problems, and others to the
background-check system.  Clergy Members’ Letter  Before today’s vote, clergy members from Newtown released a
letter signed by more than 4,000 U.S. religious leaders asking
Congress to pass legislation addressing gun violence, including
universal background checks and a ban on assault weapons.  “We have witnessed the scourge of gun violence,” the
letter said, “and we call on Congress to pass comprehensive gun
violence prevention legislation that will help stop the
slaughter.”  In recent weeks, supporters have said that banning high-
capacity magazines that hold more than 10 rounds may be just as
hard to advance in the Senate as an assault weapons ban.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat sponsoring
the assault-weapons bill, said on March 7 that the measure,
including a limit on high-capacity magazines, faces a “hard
road” to passage.  The bill would prohibit the sale, manufacture and transfer
of more than 150 of the most commonly owned assault weapons. It
also outlaws large-capacity magazines and other devices that
hold more than 10 rounds of ammunition and allow shooters to
fire numerous rounds in rapid succession without having to stop
and reload.  Protecting Hunters  The bill protects more than 2,200 hunting and sporting
rifles by specific make and model and any gun operated by bolt,
pump, lever or slide action. Weapons used by government
officials and  law enforcement  and retired law enforcement
officers are exempt.  At least six of the 55 lawmakers in the Senate Democratic
caucus have expressed skepticism or outright opposition to an
assault weapons ban. That includes senators representing pro-gun
states such as  Max Baucus  and Jon Tester of  Montana ,  Mark Begich 
of  Alaska  and Heidi Heitkamp of  North Dakota .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  