-- Audi Targets Sales Gain This Year on Expanded SUV Lineup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-03-12T13:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/audi-to-boost-2013-revenue-on-demand-for-compact-suvs.html
Audi AG is targeting an increase in
revenue and deliveries this year on demand for its expanding SUV
lineup and new A3 derivatives as the world’s second-biggest
maker of luxury vehicles seeks to nab the top spot from
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  by the end of the decade.  “Every fourth premium automobile is an SUV these days,”
Chief Executive Officer Rupert Stadler told reporters today at
the marque’s headquarters in Ingolstadt,  Germany . “That’s why
we’re creating a broad offering: more sportiness, more
diversity, more profile, less fuel consumption.”  Audi plans to double its offering of sport-utility vehicles
by 2020, when Stadler says sales of such models will account for
33 percent of high-end deliveries, a person familiar with the
matter said last month. The  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  unit is developing the
Q2, Q4 and Q6 as sportier alternatives to its current range of
three SUVs, the person said at the time.  Audi will invest 11 billion euros ($14.3 billion) by 2015
to increase production and widen its model lineup in pursuit of
BMW. To push growth, Audi is expanding a plant in  Hungary  and
opening a new factory later in 2013 in Foshan, China. BMW has a
narrow 407-vehicle sales lead over Audi through February,
recapturing the top spot nabbed briefly by Audi in January.  “We will grow further in 2013,” Stadler said today. “We
will reach the mark of 1.5 million car sales earlier than
planned,” he said. Audi, which sold 1.46 million vehicles last
year, initially planned to achieve that goal in 2015.  Higher Deliveries  Audi is targeting higher deliveries this year on demand for
its Q3 and Q5 SUVs, as well as the next-generation A3 Sportback
introduced last month and the S3 performance version of the
model coming out this summer. A sedan version of the A3, which
the automaker is targeting at American and Chinese buyers, is
set to reach showrooms later this year.  Audi  forecast  a “slight” increase in 2013 revenue and
plans to reach an operating margin at the upper end of its long-
term target range. Operating profit last year climbed 0.6
percent to 5.38 billion euros as revenue rose 11 percent to 48.8
billion euros. Operating profit as a percentage of sales was 11
percent, above a target of between 8 percent and 10 percent.  Luxury-car makers have fared better in recent years than
mass-market manufacturers as an appetite for upscale vehicles
among affluent buyers remains robust in  China  and North America.
Still, automakers are bracing for a sixth straight year of
declining European sales, with deliveries in January at the
lowest for that month since records began in 1990.  Shares Drop  “The outlook appears rather conservative,” Commerzbank AG
analyst Sascha Gommel said of Audi’s forecast. “But considering
the weak European market, a cautious outlook is hardly a
surprise.”  Volkswagen  dropped  as much as 3 euros, or 1.8 percent, to
165.85 euros and traded 1.2 percent lower as of 2:28 p.m. today
in Frankfurt. The German automaker has declined 3.1 percent this
year, valuing VW at 75.1 billion euros.  Audi will start construction in May of a new plant in
 Mexico , where it plans to build the Q5 beginning in 2016. Local
production in Mexico will reduce exposure to swings between the
euro and dollar. Audi is also preparing to start assembly of the
Q5 and Q7 at VW’s factory in Kaluga,  Russia , to sell locally,
production chief Frank Dreves told reporters.  Expanding Production  “In the coming year, Audi will for the first time build
more cars outside Germany than within,” Stadler said, adding
that the Russian market offers promising growth potential and
that establishing production in  Brazil  remains an option.
“Brazil is a very, very interesting market,” he said.  BMW regained the top spot in luxury sales from Audi last
month on rising demand for the 3-Series and X1 SUV, while
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz brand fell further behind its German
rivals. Mercedes is also seeking to topple BMW as the market
leader by the end of the decade. Audi wants to boost annual
sales to 2 million cars by 2020.  The world’s three biggest makers of premium vehicles all
posted fresh sales records last year and expect demand to rise
further in 2013 as growth in China and North America more than
offset the shrinking demand in  Europe .  The European market might remain “flat” for another three
years because problems like high unemployment and large amounts
of sovereign-debt take time to resolve, Stadler said.  VW, Europe’s largest automaker, forecast on Feb. 22 that
2013 operating profit will match last year’s level, falling
short of analysts’ estimates, as the shrinking auto market in
its home region weighs on results.  Earnings before interest and taxes, which rose 2.1 percent
to 11.5 billion euros in 2012, probably won’t increase this
year, Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW said.  Volkswagen plans to release detailed quarterly and
divisional earnings at a press conference on March 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in  Frankfurt  at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  