-- Australia Lawmakers Mull ‘Outdated’ Law Blocking Media Deals
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-03-12T08:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/australian-government-to-study-rules-allowing-seven-nine-deals.html
Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM)  and Nine
Entertainment Co.,  Australia ’s two largest free-to-air
broadcasters, may be allowed to take over smaller networks if a
government committee approves potential changes to media rules.  The government will set up a parliamentary committee to
look at abolishing the so-called reach rule, which forbids any
television company from broadcasting to more than 75 percent of
the Australian population, Communications Minister Stephen Conroy told reporters in Canberra today.  Removing the rule could fuel deals in Australia’s  A$31
billion  ($32 billion) media sector between Seven West and its
rural affiliate  Prime Media Group Ltd. (PRT) ; Nine and closely-held
WIN Corp.; and  Ten Network Holdings Ltd. (TEN)  and Southern Cross
Media Ltd., UBS AG analyst Richard Eary wrote in a Jan. 22 note
to clients.  Southern Cross  is “reviewing a number of strategic
options,” the company said March 4 after the Australian
newspaper reported it was looking at a deal with Nine.  “The reach rule is outdated,” Conroy said. “It’s not a
sustainable position in the 21st century.”  News Ltd., the Australian unit of Rupert Murdoch’s  News
Corp. (NWSA) , criticized the government’s stance. Murdoch’s son Lachlan
is Ten’s chairman and has a  8.9 percent stake  in the company
through his investment vehicle Illyria.  Ten Falls  Ten fell the most in three weeks, dropping 2.6 percent to
37 Australian cents at the close in Sydney. Southern Cross,
which would benefit if a tie-up with Nine was permitted, rose
2.7 percent to A$1.72, while Seven West slipped 1.3 percent to
A$2.35.  “We are alarmed that this inquiry is being rushed and that
the government thinks it can be done and dusted in just one
day,” Hamish McLennan, Ten’s incoming chief executive officer,
said in an e-mailed statement. “This is an issue of national
significance. It needs to be properly debated.”  The government will also set television broadcast licenses
at a maximum 4.5 percent of revenue and make permanent a current
50 percent rebate on the cost of licenses, Conroy said today.  Content rules will mandate at least 1,490 hours of
Australian content on television channels by 2015, Conroy said,
and an advocate will be established to ensure takeovers don’t
decrease diversity of ownership.  News Ltd. CEO  The government “risks standing as the one that turned the
clock back to the last century with its highly interventionist,
vague and unnecessary public interest test on media ownership --
- which is nothing more than a political interest test which
governments will use to punish outlets they don’t like,” News
Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Kim Williams said in an e-mailed
statement.  The public interest test to ensure diversity would be
“unworkable and unnecessary,” Ten’s McLennan said, and an
equivalent system in the U.K. had proven “complicated and
impractical”.  McLennan is an executive vice president in the chairman’s
office at News Corp. the media company controlled by  Rupert
Murdoch , as well as chairman of  REA Group Ltd. (REA) , the real estate
website controlled by  Bloomberg LP competes with News Corp. units in the market
for financial information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  