-- Australia Plans Stricter Approvals for Coal-Seam Gas, Mining
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-03-12T05:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/australia-plans-stricter-approvals-for-coal-seam-gas-projects.html
The Australian government plans to
make the approval process for coal-seam gas and coal mining
projects more stringent to ensure protection of water resources.  Developments expected to have a significant impact on water
will have to be evaluated and approved by the government,
Environment Minister Tony Burke said today in a statement. The
government until now has only been able to consider water when
projects have affected threatened species or wetlands, he said.  “There is the potential for this to increase costs and
increase the time it takes things to get done for some
projects,”  John Young , a Melbourne-based analyst at  Wilson HTM
Investment Group (WIG) , said today in a phone interview.  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK)  and  Santos Ltd. (STO)  are among companies in
 Australia  whose coal-seam gas projects on the east coast have
faced opposition from some environmental groups and farmers
worried about potential damage to water supplies. New South
Wales, Australia’s most populous state, moved last month to
restrict access to some areas for drilling.  Santos,  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  and  BG Group Plc (BG/)  are building
more than $60 billion in projects in Queensland state to convert
coal-seam gas to liquid form for export to  Asia .  Projects already being assessed won’t need to restart the
process, the government said. While the government is seeking
additional information, “we are not seeking to have a
needlessly delayed process as a result,” it said.  “People have expected that something like this would come
along,” Wilson HTM’s Young said. “Most are aware that in order
to progress their projects, they need to meet the concerns of
the community and explain what they are doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  