-- Aussie at 4-Year High Versus Yen; Kiwi Lower on Drought
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-03-12T06:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/australia-n-z-dollars-touch-4-year-high-against-yen.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars reached the highest levels in more than four years
versus the yen amid speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301)  will expand
monetary easing, boosting the allure of higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie rose against most of its major peers
as investors pared bets on interest-rate cuts by the  Reserve
Bank  of  Australia . The nation’s bonds dropped, sending the 10-
year yield to the highest since May. The New Zealand dollar
declined against the greenback amid concern a drought in the
nation will hurt its economy. Haruhiko Kuroda, the nominee to
become the Bank of  Japan ’s next governor, yesterday signaled
readiness for a quick expansion in monetary stimulus.  “The suggestion that Kuroda may ease policy before the
April 4 meeting has given the yen a push lower” against crosses
including the Aussie and kiwi currencies, said  Michael Turner , a
fixed-income strategist in Sydney at Royal Bank of  Canada .
“Expectations for rate cuts in Australia are falling, and as
long as the data keeps printing OK, that’ll keep yields grinding
higher.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.2 percent to 99.14 yen at 5
p.m. in Sydney, after earlier touching 99.58, the highest since
August 2008. The currency was unchanged at $1.0281.  New Zealand’s dollar reached 79.90 yen, the highest since
July 2008, before trading at 79.53, 0.3 percent below
yesterday’s close. The so-called kiwi declined 0.4 percent to
82.47 U.S. cents.  BOJ Nominees  Kuroda said yesterday that the bank would consider buying
derivatives as part of its easing efforts. Kikuo Iwata, a
nominee for deputy governor, said today in upper house
confirmation hearings the central bank can end deflation solely
through buying government debt. Japan’s central bank will next
meet for two days ending April 4.  The fiscal policy council at the opposition  Democratic
Party  of Japan will recommend approving Kuroda and rejecting
Iwata, according to two officials who asked not to be named
ahead of announcement.  Australia’s  10-year yield  advanced as much as six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to reach 3.64 percent, the
most since May 2. The three-year rate touched 3.03 percent, the
highest since April 30. Yields on two-year notes climbed to 2.97
percent, a level unseen since Aug. 21.  National Australia Bank Ltd. said today its  business
confidence index  for February fell to 1 from 3 in the month
prior. The  gauge , a measure of hiring, sales and profits,
deteriorated to minus 3 from minus 2.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  will
release results of a  consumer confidence  survey tomorrow.  RBA Outlook  A gauge of home loans will probably show a rebound in
January, according to the median economist estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s announcement.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 19 percent chance the RBA will cut its overnight cash-rate
target to 2.75 percent when policy makers next meet on April 2.
That’s down from 25 percent odds a week ago.  The Australian dollar has gained 2.6 percent in the past
month, the biggest gainer after the greenback among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Index. New Zealand’s dollar has risen 0.8 percent in
the same period.  Stronger Aussie  The Aussie’s strength won’t change soon, according to Lyn Cobley, Treasurer at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the
nation’s biggest lender by market value. “The economy is
adjusting to a stronger Australian dollar, and they will need to
as it will continue.”  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. is re-entering a
bet the Aussie will rise versus its New Zealand counterpart,
targeting NZ$1.2650, David Croy, Wellington-based head of
markets research for New Zealand, wrote in a note to clients
today.  “Australian data this week is likely to exhibit
strength,” Croy wrote. “In New Zealand the risks look poised
to the downside as the market focuses on the developing
drought.”  Drought declarations were extended to most of New Zealand’s
 North Island  last week, including the nation’s biggest milk-
producing region. The dry conditions may reduce economic growth,
Finance Minister  Bill English  said in parliament today.  The Aussie rose 0.4 percent to NZ$1.2465.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive a flowing rate, fell two basis points to 2.98 percent.  The  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  meets on March 14 and will
probably keep rates steady at 2.5 percent, according to all 16
estimates in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  