-- Autopsy on New Delhi Gang Rape Accused to Clarify Cause of Death
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-03-12T05:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/autopsy-on-new-delhi-gang-rape-accused-to-clarify-cause-of-death.html
An autopsy on one of six men
accused of gang raping and murdering a young woman in New Delhi
will be performed today as jail authorities and the man’s family
gave differing accounts of his final hours.  Officials at the capital’s high security Tihar prison said
Ram Singh, 33, committed suicide early yesterday, using a torn
up carpet to hang himself from a ceiling grill in his cell. His
family and lawyer said that Singh was murdered and had
previously been attacked by other inmates for his crimes.  Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde said yesterday a
preliminary investigation had shown that Singh took his own life
as he admitted that the death was a major security lapse. Singh
was midway through a trial for the murder, rape and kidnap of
the medical student who was attacked on a bus on Dec. 16 as she
returned home from the cinema. She died from her injuries in a
Singapore hospital two weeks later.  “The autopsy will be done today under the guidance of a
team of doctors,” said Rakesh Yadav, spokesman for the  All
India Institute of Medical Sciences , the hospital in south Delhi
where the post mortem will be carried out. “The report will
then be submitted to the court and concerned authority.”  The brutal attack on the 23-year-old medical student
shocked India and reverberated around the world, triggering
street protests and drawing attention to the scale of sexual
violence against women in the world’s largest democracy. India’s
government has toughened sentences for sexual assaults amid the
public outcry.  ‘Foul Play’  Singh was one of five men and a juvenile on trial for rape,
murder and kidnapping. Five of the alleged attackers are
appearing at a specially convened fast-track court in New Delhi,
which is closed to the media. The sixth is facing a juvenile
justice board as he’s been declared under 18 at the time of the
attack. All denied the charges against them.  V.K. Anand, Singh’s lawyer, said yesterday that “foul
play” was involved in his client’s death. Anand told reporters
that when he met Singh last week he appeared in good health and
was content with how the trial was proceeding.  Singh’s father told the Press Trust of  India  his son had
been murdered, and demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of
Investigation. Singh was held in a cell with four other inmates
who told prison officials they were asleep and heard nothing
unusual at the time Singh is said to have killed himself, the
news agency reported.  The six men accused of the rape and murder met at Singh’s
home in a New Delhi slum on the evening of the attack, and used
the school bus that he drove in his job, police have said.  In the brutal two-hour assault that followed, the woman was
allegedly repeatedly raped before being dumped naked along with
a male friend beside a road near New Delhi’s airport. The couple
were then ignored by passersby and police argued over where to
take them as they lay bleeding on the street, according to
televised comments by the man who survived the attack. Neither
have been officially named.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  