-- Aviva Joins Morgan Stanley Rebuking Central Bank: Poland Credit
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-03-13T16:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/aviva-joins-morgan-stanley-rebuking-central-bank-poland-credit.html
Polish  interest rates  look
increasingly hard to predict after policy makers  reduced 
borrowing costs last week by the most in four years a month
after they signaled cuts were coming to an end.  Governor  Marek Belka  and his nine-member Monetary Policy
Council lowered rates by 50 basis points to a record low of 3.25
percent on March 6, saying inflation and economic growth
prospects had weakened. None of the 38 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast a reduction of more than 25 basis points
after the rate panel’s rhetoric turned more hawkish since they
began a cycle of cuts in November.  “We are unable to build a strategy on it because it seems
most of its decisions are taken at random,” Maciej Karasinski,
a fixed-income  fund manager  at Aviva PTE SA, which runs Poland’s
second-largest pension fund with $19 billion in assets, said in
an interview on March 11. “It would have been impossible to
predict a 50 basis point cut.”  The spread between nine-month  forward-rate agreements  and
the Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, used to speculate on interest
rates, widened to 26 basis points today, after falling to 16
following last week’s announcement, showing bets in the market
on a quarter-point cut by the end of 2013, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The extra yield on Poland’s two-year
notes in zloty over German bunds narrowed to 327 at 5:21 p.m. in
Warsaw, 25 basis points below a three-month high on March 4.  ‘Unusual, Confusing’  “It is unusual and confusing for an institution that
struggles to find consensus within its MPC to suddenly switch to
a bigger cut in such an unexpected manner,” Pasquale Diana, an
analyst at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in  London , said in a report on March
8. “Usually, such bold decisions take place right at the start
of easing cycles, not as we approach the end.”  Przemyslaw Kuk, a spokesman for the Narodowy Bank Polski,
declined to comment about the central bank’s dialogue with
investors when contacted by phone yesterday.  After the February rate meeting, at which policy makers
delivered a quarter-point cut, Belka said “we need to
reconsider what we’ve done so far” during the rate cut cycle
and that “all options” except for a rate increase are “open”
at this month’s gathering.  Belka rejected the accusation that communication is faulty
in an interview published yesterday by the central bank’s
internet portal obserwatorfinansowy.pl, saying that  Poland ’s 10
monetary policy makers will “never have the same message.”  ‘Restrictive’ Rates  The central bank was reacting to new information on the
state of the economy, Belka said.  “The projections also showed there was room to reduce
interest rates safely, which is why the council decided, in my
view very correctly, on a deeper rate cut,” Belka said.  Poland’s central bank needs “one or two months” to
observe the economy and afterwards “anything is possible,”
including another rate cut, Monetary Policy Council member
Elzbieta Chojna-Duch said yesterday in an interview on TVN CNBC.
Interest rates still remain “restrictive,” she added.  “We haven’t barred the door forever to rate cuts,” Belka
told reporters on the sidelines of a banking conference today in
Warsaw. “Further cuts could happen if it turns out the economic
growth and inflation diverge from our projections.”  Inflation Pressure  The Narodowy Bank Polski’s economic forecasts released last
week projected a “sustained” inflation slowdown through 2015.
The  consumer price index  will probably increase 1.6 percent this
year, the lower end of the bank’s tolerance range of 2.5 percent
plus/minus one percentage point. The economy will expand 1.3
percent this year, the worst performance since 2001 and compared
with 2 percent in 2012, the forecasts showed.  The  inflation  rate slowed to an annual rate of 1.5 percent
in February, matching the lowest rate since August 2007,
according to the median estimate of 36 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Along with publishing price data for last month
tomorrow, the  Central Statistical Office  in Warsaw will also
revise the January figure as it carries out its yearly
adjustment of weights in the consumer goods basket.  Poland’s central bank was the only one in the European
Union to raise interest rates last year.  The policy council’s initial reluctance to cut rates
mirrors the conduct of central bankers in several other
economies that coped relatively well in the 2008-2009 crisis,
such as Sweden and  Canada , said  Lars Christensen , chief  emerging
markets  economist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen.  ‘Engineered Slowdown’  “We might have this paradoxical situation where the
central bank ends up cutting interest rates more than what they
actually set out to do initially” because “they engineered a
bigger slowdown in the Polish economy than would otherwise been
the case,” Christensen said by phone on March 12.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Polish  dollar-
denominated bonds  rather than U.S. Treasuries fell four basis
points. or 0.04 percentage point, to 118 today, indexes compiled
by JPMorgan Chase & Co. show. The spread of Poland’s 10-year
zloty bonds over German euro-denominated bonds narrowed eight
basis points to 244, 22 basis points above a four-year low hit
on Feb. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The zloty strengthened less than 0.1 percent to 4.1428
against the euro, paring is decline to 1.5 percent this year.  The cost to insure Polish debt against non-payment for five
years using  credit-default swaps  rose one basis point to 87,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  “The council first signaled a pause in rate reductions and
then cut by 50 basis points,” Tomasz Bartnicki, who manages
about 7.8 billion zloty ($2.5 billion) of debt at insurer
Amplico Life and mutual fund Amplico TFI, said in an e-mailed
response to Bloomberg questions on March 8. “Now they are
signalling the end of the cycle, but it is hard to tell what
they’ll end up doing. I’m not even trying to guess.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net 
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  