-- Lawmakers Warn of ‘Grave’ Danger From Cuts, Vote for Them
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2013-03-12T04:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/lawmakers-warn-of-grave-danger-from-cuts-vote-for-them.html
Democratic and Republican lawmakers
from  Virginia  warned of “grave consequences” for their state
in a letter last month opposing automatic federal spending cuts.
They urged the president and congressional leaders to take
“immediate action to avert the devastating impacts.”  Last week, they voted to keep those cuts in place.  It’s a bipartisan trend on  Capitol Hill : Complain in public
appearances and letters about the impact of $85 billion in
automatic budget reductions, known as sequestration, that are
scheduled to take effect this year while doing nothing to stop
them. The dueling messages reflect a balance some lawmakers are
trying to strike between shrinking  spending  and standing up for
programs their voters favor.  Club for Growth president  Chris Chocola  called the
reductions a “good first step,” and said he doesn’t mind
members speaking out against spending cuts -- so long as they
keep voting for them.  “What they say and what they do are two very different
things,” said Chocola, who was a Republican congressman from
 Indiana  before becoming head of the anti-tax  Washington  group.
“They’re politicians.”  Senate Action  The across-the-board 5.8 percent federal spending reduction
that began March 1 was meant to scare Congress into action on a
deficit reduction package. Instead, the House voted to keep the
cuts in place through Sept. 30 in a funding measure it passed
March 6 to avoid a government shutdown. The Senate begins action
on the bill today. The federal government’s funding is due to
expire on March 27.  “The somewhat sympathetic view is that you’re never going
to get a bill that’s everything you want, and you’re often faced
with a couple of bad choices,” said Tom Perriello, president of
the Center for American Progress Action Fund, which urges  tax 
revisions as a way to close the deficit.  “The more cynical view is that this is a solvable problem.
Members are smart enough to know that sequester is bad for the
economy but don’t want to put themselves on record for doing any
of the things to solve it,” said Perriello, a former Democratic
congressman from Virginia.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
said she opposed the funding legislation because it was more
about preserving spending cuts than avoiding a government
shutdown. The bill leads “down a path that is harmful to our
economy, and harmful to our national security,” she said in a
March 6 House floor speech.  Bigger Cuts  Some Republican-leaning groups, including FreedomWorks,
opposed the legislation, saying the cuts aren’t deep enough.  “Everyone talks about how irrational sequester is, but it
may be the most rational thing they can do because of the very
dynamic we’re seeing here: No one wants cuts in their
district,” said Matt Kibbe, president of FreedomWorks, an anti-
tax, pro-small government nonprofit based in Washington.
“They’re playing this game of not wanting to put specifics on
the table because they’re worried about their next election.”  The cuts will slow economic growth by 0.5 percentage points
of GDP and cost the economy 350,000 jobs, according to the
median estimate of private forecasters surveyed by  Bloomberg
News .  Investors are signaling they view the $15.8 trillion  U.S.
economy  as strong enough to weather the reductions in federal
spending. Yields on 10-year treasury notes rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage points, to close at 2.06 percent at 5
p.m. yesterday in  New York . That compares with an average of
4.88 percent over the past 20 years. The Standard & Poor’s  500
Index (SPX)  climbed 0.3 percent to 1,556.22, the highest level since
October 2007.  Vote Breakdown  The government funding measure passed the House with  the
support  of 214 Republicans and 53 Democrats -- many of whom have
been grumbling about the damage the automatic cuts are causing.  The Virginia lawmakers wrote in a Feb. 15 letter to
President  Barack Obama , Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and
House Speaker  John Boehner  that their state would “bear a
disproportionate amount of the pain” from cuts because its
economy relies heavily on  defense spending  and federal jobs. It
was signed by the state’s two senators -- Democrats Mark Warner
and  Tim Kaine  -- as well as Democratic Representatives Bobby Scott, Jim Moran and Gerry Connolly and Republican
Representatives Rob Wittman, Scott Rigell, J. Randy Forbes and
Frank Wolf.  Lives ‘At Stake’  The congressmen have repeated the letter’s themes in public
appearances and interviews. Wittman was quoted in Business
Insider March 4 saying that “men and women’s lives are at
stake” because of the mandatory military cuts. “It’s troubling
the magnitude of what’s being placed on defense,” he was quoted
as saying.  Rigell was present Feb. 26 at a shipyard in  Newport News ,
Virginia, where Obama spoke about the damaging impact of
sequestration.  Connolly was the only letter-signer to vote against the
measure that continues sequestration.  Several of the Virginia lawmakers said in press releases
and in statements to Bloomberg that they backed the bill because
it provides some flexibility to the Pentagon, a key issue for a
state where federal defense spending makes up almost 14 percent
of the gross domestic product, according to a  Bloomberg
Government study .  “In the end, the vote was a choice between dysfunctional
government under an imperfect bill if it passed or potentially
no government at all if it failed,” Scott said in a March 6
press release.  Immigrant Issue  The complaints go beyond defense cuts.  Texas Representative Michael McCaul, Republican chairman of
the House Committee on  Homeland Security , voted for the
government funding measure one week after he  sent a letter  to
Immigrations and Customs Enforcement expressing outrage that
some illegal immigrants had been released from detention centers
-- an action the agency said it took because of the required
spending cuts.  McCaul said in his letter that the action “reflects the
lack of resource prioritization.”  Airport Towers  Representative Tom Cotton, an Arkansas Republican, also
blamed bureaucrats -- and not sequestration -- when he decried
the Federal Aviation’s decision to close 189 air-traffic control
towers.  A day after he backed the measure that keeps the reductions
in place, he put out a  press release  saying “local airports
play a vital role in communities.”  “I find it difficult to believe that an agency that spends
$500 million on consultants and $200 million on travel each year
cannot find the funds to fully maintain this important part of
nation’s transportation infrastructure,” he said.  Representative Ami Bera, a California Democrat, has raised
alarms about the danger the cuts pose to public safety,
disparaging sequestration as “not a real solution.”  “If we don’t act to avoid these spending cuts, we threaten
the very safety of our community and our country,” Bera said on
the House floor Feb. 26. Warning that federal funding for
community firefighters would be cut, he said, “homes are going
to burn.”  Bera, a physician who took office in January, also wrote an
editorial in the Sacramento Bee newspaper that day describing
the automatic spending cuts as “another self-imposed, arbitrary
crisis.”  “These haphazard cuts will impact everything from
education and jobs in Sacramento County to our country’s
national security,”  he wrote .  Days later, he was one of the 53 Democrats voting to allow
the spending reductions to take place.  In a statement to Bloomberg, Bera said the budget measure
that includes sequestration was “far from ideal.”  “But it would have been reckless for me to vote in a way
that could cause a government shutdown and hurt many Sacramento
County residents,” he said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  