-- Bank of New York Asks Court to Reject Chesapeake Bond Bid
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-03-12T14:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/bank-of-new-york-asks-court-to-reject-chesapeake-motion.html
Bank of New York Mellon  Corp. asked
a federal judge to reject a bid by  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  for a
preliminary injunction that would allow it to redeem more than
$1.3 billion in notes early and avoid new interest.  Chesapeake sued March 8 seeking a court order that it can
redeem the 6.775 percent notes, arguing that a notice
issued in the next three days will be timely to redeem them at
par and not at the higher “make whole” price.  “Chesapeake, having missed the deadline to redeem the
notes at par, now demands an advisory opinion from the court,
seeking to guarantee the idiosyncratic treatment of a future
redemption notice which has not yet been made,” Bank of  New
York  Mellon, the indenture trustee for the notes, said in the
filing today in  Manhattan  federal court.  Chesapeake, an oil and natural gas producer based in
 Oklahoma City , can’t prove it has a likelihood of success in the
case, the bank argued, citing a standard for obtaining such an
order. The bank also said Chesapeake shouldn’t be granted the
injunction because it isn’t in danger of “irreparable harm.”  Notes Climbed  The notes climbed to a record on the day the lawsuit was
filed.  Adam Cohen , the founder of Covenant Review, an
independent research firm in New York, said at the time that the
jump was a wager the natural gas producer has run out of time to
repurchase the debt at par, or 100 cents, as allowed by the
debt’s covenants.  In a separate court filing today, several investors,
calling themselves an “ad hoc noteholder group,” asked court
permission to intervene, or participate, in the litigation.  They include Archer Capital Management LP, Ares Management
LLC, Aurelius Capital Management LP, Carlson Capital LP, Cetus
Capital LLC, Latigo Partners LLC, Monarch Alternative Capital
LP, P. Schoenfeld Asset Management LP, River Birch Capital LLC
and Taconic Capital Advisors LP.  Michael Kehs, a spokesman for Chesapeake, declined to
comment on Bank of New York Mellon’s filing.  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York State  Supreme Court  in Manhattan
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 