-- Banks’ Debt Addiction Said to Face Scrutiny at Basel Group
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-03-12T15:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/banks-debt-addiction-said-to-face-scrutiny-at-basel-meetings.html
A planned international limit on
bank indebtedness will be on the agenda of every meeting of the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  this year as regulators
seek to wean lenders off their addiction to debt, according to
three people familiar with the talks.  Regulators are preparing to fight lenders over the details
of the so-called leverage ratio as they seek to toughen rules on
the minimum amount of capital they must use to back their
investments. The Basel group, which brings together supervisors
from 27 nations, will meet in the Swiss city tomorrow, according
to the people, who asked not to be identified because the
meetings are confidential.  Concerns over how banks calculate reserves has led U.K.
bank regulator Adair Turner and U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. board member Jeremiah Norton to call for tougher leverage
ratios. Global supervisors in 2010 included a draft leverage
ratio in an overhaul of rules, known as Basel III, drawn up in
response to the financial crisis that followed the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “Early on, banks did not see it as such a big danger, or
as a priority for lobbying, because it looked less likely to be
implemented in the EU than other parts of Basel III,” Philippe
Lamberts, the lawmaker leading the work on the Basel III rules
for the European Parliament’s Green group, said in a telephone
interview.  Leverage ratios force banks to hold capital equivalent to a
percentage of the value of their assets. Such measures are
simpler than standard  capital requirements  as they don’t give
banks any scope to take into account the riskiness of their
investments when calculating the reserves they must hold.  ‘Lost Confidence’  Investors have “lost confidence” in banks calculations of
the riskiness of their assets,  Andrew Bailey , head of banking
supervision at the Financial Services Authority, told U.K.
lawmakers earlier this year. “They don’t understand it.”  A review of how banks calculate the risks they face on
assets they intend to trade found “material variation” across
the industry,  Stefan Ingves , the Basel committee’s chairman,
said in a speech in  Cape Town  in January. Regulators could
respond with tougher disclosure rules or “limitations in the
modeling choices for banks,” he said.  Under the draft Basel plan in 2010, banks would have to
hold so-called Tier 1 capital equivalent to 3 percent of their
assets, so capping a lender’s debt at no more than 33 times
those reserves.  National Regulators  Settling the details of the leverage ratio is a priority
for the Basel committee because of a Jan. 1, 2015, deadline for
large banks to begin disclosing how well they measure up to the
rule. The Basel leverage ratio would be a minimum standard for
banks from 2018, with national regulators free to set tougher
rules.  Basel regulators are unlikely to change the fundamentals of
the leverage rule compared with the 2010 draft, according to the
people. The final version will keep the requirement for banks to
hold  Tier 1 capital , a measure of financial strength, equivalent
to 3 percent of their assets, they said, which was a compromise
between different regulators on the committee.  Work on the measure should “be largely completed this
year,” Ingves said in a speech in Basel today. The group’s
activities will be focused on defining how assets are captured
by the leverage ratio, he said.  Stricter Ratio  The U.K. parliamentary commission scrutinizing a bill
designed to make Britain’s banks safer this week called for
regulators to be given the power to set a stricter leverage
ratio than the one included in Basel III.  Andrew Haldane , the Bank of England’s executive director
for financial stability, and  John Vickers , who led a review of
the banking industry in the U.K. have also called for leverage
caps lower than 33 times lenders’ equity. The FDIC’s Norton said
last month that U.S. banks should have to meet a tougher
leverage rule than the draft international standard.  The temptation for banks to boost their reserves through
changes to risk calculations, rather than real steps to raise
capital, could be countered by a strong leverage ratio, said
Lamberts, the European lawmaker. One example of this is how
German lender Commerzbank AG sought to meet EU capital rules in
part by adjusting its risk calculations, rather than simply
raising fresh reserves, Lamberts said.  Internal Models  “Details that are coming to light about how banks misuse
their internal models, for example when  Commerzbank  said it
would make up half of a capital shortfall through changes to its
models, show the need for this kind of rule,” he said.  Commerzbank (CBK)  was one of more than 60 lenders  told  by the
European Banking Authority to hold capital equivalent to 9
percent of its risk-weighted assets.  Committee discussions will focus on how to make sure the
measure captures the risks banks are taking, including from
derivatives and off-balance sheet activities, the people said.  Banks have criticized the design of the leverage ratio,
saying it would penalize lenders that carry out many small
transactions with different counterparties because it doesn’t
consider the collateral banks take on to reduce risk.  “The Basel committee really needs to look at how the rule
is going to affect different business models,” said Jouni
Aaltonen, a director at the Association for Financial Markets in
 Europe , a banking lobby group. The plans would mean “client-
facing commercial banks are hit harder by the rule than inter-
bank broker-dealers.”  Accounting Standards  Divergences in accounting standards between the U.S. and
the rest of the world also complicate attempts to create a
universal standard. Under U.S. rules, banks’ exposure to
derivatives is calculated on a net, rather than nominal, basis,
which could make it easier for them to hit target leverage
ratios.  This so-called netting gives lenders scope to reduce the
size of their balance sheets by allowing them to subtract what
they are potentially owed on contracts they have bought, from
obligations arising from derivatives contracts they have sold to
the same company.  The Basel committee has sought to overcome this problem,
and ensure that banks follow a common approach, by drafting its
own netting rules for the leverage ratio.  “The challenge for setting leverage ratios is the question
of how you account for derivatives,” Kathryn Dick, managing
director of Promontory Financial Group LLC, a financial-services
consultant, said in an interview in  London .  Bank Capital  While U.S. regulators already require large lenders to meet
a leverage ratio, such a standard isn’t part of the EU’s bank
capital requirements.  Some central bankers may be concerned that a stricter
leverage ratio may damage an economic recovery, said  Patricia
Jackson , head of prudential advisory at Ernst & Young LLP in
London and a former Basel committee member.  “There is an appetite among some regulators in the U.K.
for a tougher leverage ratio, but I think on the continent
people are increasingly worried about the economic impact of the
rule,” Jackson said in an interview.  “An internationally comparable leverage ratio is anything
but simple to design,” Wayne Byres, the Basel Committee’s
secretary general, said in a speech in  Portugal  last year.
“Believe me, it is not easy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 