-- Banks May Face Extra Basel Capital Rules for Interest Rate Risks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-03-12T10:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/banks-may-face-extra-basel-capital-rules-for-interest-rate-risks.html
Global regulators may force banks
to hold more capital to guard against the risk that they may
lose money from changes in interest rates, Stefan Ingves,
chairman of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, said
today.  Authorities will examine “the need for a capital framework
for interest rate risk” on assets that lenders plan to hold to
maturity, Ingves said in prepared remarks for a speech in Basel,
Switzerland today. Such a move may improve consistency with
capital rules on assets banks intend to trade, Ingves said.  The Basel committee is also planning to review its capital
rules to see if they could be simplified, Ingves said. This
issue will be discussed at a meeting of the group that begins
tomorrow in the city, he said.  Regulators are pushing to complete an overhaul of
international bank requirements that was started in response to
the financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. The rule changes, known as Basel III,
more than triple the core reserves that lenders must hold
against insolvency, and set minimum liquidity standards.  The work on capital rules for interest-rate risk and
simplification “will be the last pieces in what has essentially
been a complete overhaul of the regulatory framework since the
financial crisis,” Ingves said. The plans are “still at an
embryonic stage,” he said.  The Basel committee this year will also press ahead with
work on a binding indebtedness limit for banks, and on reviewing
whether banks are correctly calculating the capital they must
hold, Ingves said.  The committee is hoping to publish the findings of the
review “by the summer,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  