-- Barcelona Beats AC Milan in Champions League as Galatasaray Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-12T23:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/barcelona-beats-milan-in-champions-league-galatasaray-advances.html
Barcelona eased into the
quarterfinals of soccer’s  Champions League  with a 4-0 win over
AC Milan, while Galatasaray beat Schalke 3-2 to advance.  Lionel Messi  scored twice last night at the Nou Camp
Stadium in Spain to help Barcelona to a 4-2 win over the two-
game series. Barcelona is the first team to overturn a two-goal
deficit after not scoring in the first game of a Champions
League tie.  “We believed since the first minute,” Barcelona defender
 Gerard Pique  said in a televised interview. “We were better
than Milan from the start.”  Hamit Altintop, Burak Yilmaz and Umut Bulut scored in
Germany as Galatasaray completed a 4-3 series win to reach the
quarterfinals for the first time in 12 years.  “I personally believed we could reach the quarterfinals,”
Altintop said on the website of tournament organizer UEFA. “We
played well in the first half and in the second half Schalke
tried to put pressure on us. Eventually, we got what we
needed.”  Barcelona, seeking its fourth European Cup in eight seasons,
and Galatasaray join Real  Madrid , Juventus,  Borussia Dortmund 
and Paris Saint-Germain in the last eight. The last two
quarterfinal places will be filled tonight, with the draw
conducted in two days.  Messi’s Opener  Facing a 2-0 deficit from the first game in Italy, Messi
opened the scoring after five minutes with a shot into the top
corner of the net from just inside the penalty area. It was his
57th Champions League goal, moving him into second place in the
all-time scoring list behind  Raul Gonzalez ’s 71.  Milan goalkeeper Christian Abbiati pushed  Andres Iniesta ’s
shot onto the crossbar seven minutes later, with Messi heading
the rebound into the side netting.  Milan’s M’Baye Niang then hit the post after getting behind
the defense in the 38th minute and Messi drew Barcelona even
about a minute later with a shot from just outside the area.  Barcelona took its first lead in the series in the 55th
minute when  David Villa  curled a shot from the right inside the
far post.  With Milan pushing forward in stoppage time for the score
that would send it through on the away-goal tiebreaker,
Barcelona defender Jordi Alba scored on a counterattack to
clinch Barcelona’s sixth straight quarterfinal appearance.  “We always felt we could come back in this tie,” Villa
said on UEFA’s website. “After experiencing what we did tonight
we don’t care who we get in the quarterfinals.”  Biggest Loss  Barcelona is the fourth team to advance in the Champions
League by erasing a first-leg deficit of more than one goal,
while seven-time winner Milan matched its biggest defeat in the
competition.  “We simply did not play the game we were supposed to,”
Milan coach Massimo Ambrosini said on UEFA’s website. “I will
not call it a failure because Barcelona are a great side.”  In Gelsenkirchen,  Germany , Roman Neustadter’s goal in the
17th minute gave Schalke the lead in the series following an
opening 1-1 draw in  Turkey .  Former Schalke striker Altintop pulled Galatasaray even in
the 37th minute with a shot from 25 yards out (22 meters).
Yilmaz then made it 3-2 on aggregate five minutes later with his
eighth goal to match Real Madrid’s Cristiano Ronaldo for the
competition lead.  Michel Bastos scored in the 63rd minute to even the series,
though Schalke still trailed on the away-goals tiebreaker. With
Schalke pushing forward for another score, Bulut broke through
on goalkeeper Timo Hildebrand and slid home the rebound to
secure Galatasaray’s place in the next round.  “We deserved the win,” Galatasaray midfielder  Wesley Sneijder  said on UEFA’s website. “We played well, especially in
the first half. In the second half we made a lot of mistakes, we
made it difficult for ourselves.”  In tonight’s quarterfinals,  Bayern Munich  takes a 3-1 lead
into its home match with Arsenal, while Malaga hosts Porto
trailing 1-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 