-- Barclays Sees Ghana Key T-Bill Yields Falling Almost a Third
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-03-12T13:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/barclays-sees-ghana-key-t-bill-yields-falling-almost-a-third-1-.html
Ghana ’s three-month  borrowing  costs
will drop by almost a third by the end of this year as the
government narrows its  budget deficit  and the local currency
stabilizes, said George Asante, country treasurer for Barclays
Plc in the West African nation.  The benchmark 91-day Treasury-bill yield, which is used by
banks as a gauge for setting lending rates, may fall to 17
percent, he said in an interview in Accra, the capital,
yesterday. That would be the lowest since May, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The notes yielded 22.76 percent at the
Bank of Ghana’s last auction, held on March 8.  “In line with government’s plans to reduce the fiscal
deficit this year, we expect  government borrowing  needs to
diminish,” Asante said. “That is giving ample room to the
central bank to adjust the 91-day Treasury-bill rate
downwards.”  Ghana, with the second-biggest economy in West Africa,
plans to reduce the budget deficit to 9 percent of gross
domestic product from 12 percent last year, Finance Minister
Seth Terkper said on March 5. The 2012 gap worsened, compared
with a target of 6.7 percent, because of higher spending on
wages, fuel subsidies and lower revenue from corporate taxes,
according to Terkper.  The  Bank of Ghana  boosted rates on the three-month debt
last year to remove excess cedis from the system and stem the
currency’s decline against the dollar. The institution tried to
make assets denominated in the local currency more attractive
than their U.S. currency counterparts. The yields climbed 12.3
percentage points to 23 percent by the end of 2012.  Debt Sales  The cedi depreciated 16 percent against the dollar in the
first half of 2012 and halted the fall in the last six months,
strengthening 2 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency has weakened 1 percent this year and
eased 0.1 percent today to 1.9225 per dollar by 12:58 p.m. in
Accra.  The cedi may fall to 1.96 per dollar by the end of the
year, Ridle Markus, a Johannesburg-based Africa strategist at
 Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , said yesterday in Accra.  “The government will sell more three-year and five-year
bonds this year in the total mix of treasury offers,” Alhassan
Iddrisu, director of research at the Ministry of Finance and
 Economic Planning , said in Accra today. “We expect this to ease
pressure at the short-end of the market and subsequently bring
the rates down at that end.” Iddrisu said Eurobonds are also
being considered to finance the 2013 budget.  Yields on Ghana’s 10-year $750 million eurobonds due
October 2017 were little changed at 4.735 percent by 12:53 p.m.
local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  