-- Belka Says More Rate Cuts Possible If Growth Disappoints
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-03-12T10:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/belka-says-more-rate-cuts-possible-if-growth-disappoints.html
The Polish central bank isn’t
ruling out more interest-rate cuts if economic growth
undershoots its expectations, Governor  Marek Belka  said.  The bank’s latest  staff projection , which turned more
“pessimistic” about the outlook for expansion, was behind last
week’s decision to reduce borrowing costs by half a percentage
point, Belka said today in  Obserwatorfinansowy.pl , a website
operated by the central bank. The reduction was bigger than
predicted by any of 38 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Policy makers cut the main interest rate to a record-low
last week as the European Union’s largest eastern economy
battles its steepest slowdown in 12 years. The central bank is
set to pause after five reductions since November took Poland’s
benchmark rate to 3.25 percent, Belka said March 6.  “I can’t rule out further monetary-policy easing if it
turns out that the economic reality is different from the
projection,” he told Obserwatorfinansowy.pl. “I don’t want to
speculate today about further rate cuts. It’s not the right
moment.”  The March projection showed  economic growth  will slow to
1.3 percent this year, the weakest pace since 2001 and down from
the previous estimate of 1.5 percent, as rising unemployment
hurts  consumer spending  and the recession in the euro area curbs
exports. The  inflation  rate will stay near the lower end of the
central bank’s tolerance range of 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent
through 2015, according to the document.  Open Door  The central bank’s current “wait-and-see” stance on rates
is justified, although it didn’t “close the door” to a
potential “corrective” move in the future, policy maker Anna Zielinska-Glebocka told the PAP newswire in an interview today.  The zloty weakened 0.2 percent to 4.1501 per euro at 11:22
a.m. in Warsaw. Derivatives traders have pared their wagers for
further monetary easing following the March decision to less
than a quarter-point reduction by the end of December, based on
the spread between nine-month forward-rate agreements and the
Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The bar for more  interest-rate  cuts has been set very
high,” Radoslaw Bodys, chief economist at PKO Bank Polski SA,
said in an e-mailed note today. “The most likely scenario is
stable rates for the next 12-18 months.”  Worse Outlook  While the central bank reduced its outlook for 2013
inflation and growth, it’s also projecting a faster expansion of
2.6 percent next year as the impact of lower borrowing costs
filters through to the economy, Jacek Kotlowski, director of the
central bank’s Economic Institute, said yesterday.  Policy makers will want to tie rate decisions more closely
to future projections, with the next one coming in July, Belka
said. He rejected the government’s criticism that the monetary
easing came too late and contributed to the slowdown.  “The slowdown is coming from the outside; it stems from
the uncertainty in the euro area,” Belka said. “It’s not true
that excessively restrictive monetary policy in  Poland  was in
any way responsible for weaker growth.”  The government shouldn’t seek deeper budget cuts as it
tries to narrow the deficit to comply with European Union limits
because that would hurt economic growth, Belka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  