-- Berlusconi Allies Reprimanded by Napolitano for Court Protest
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-12T13:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/berlusconi-allies-reprimanded-by-napolitano-for-court-protest.html
Silvio Berlusconi’s political
allies were reprimanded by Italian President Giorgio Napolitano
who told them their demonstration outside Milan’s courthouse
yesterday put judicial independence at risk.  “The president of the republic said he was very
disappointed in the flare up of tensions and conflicts between
politics and justice,” Napolitano’s office said today in an e-
mailed statement after the head of state met with lawmakers who
attended the protest including Angelino Alfano, general
secretary of Berluconi’s People of Liberty party, or PDL.
Napolitano will meet the heads of  Italy ’s judiciary later today.  Berlusconi, 76, was sentenced to a year in prison last week
and could face verdicts in two separate criminal trials later
this month. Alfano was joined at yesterday’s rally by PDL
colleagues, including ex-ministers Maurizio Gasparri and
Mariastella Gelmini, and from the courthouse steps told
television reporters that Berlusconi’s trials represented an
attack against “the republican institutions” of Italy.  Napolitano was “especially disappointed by what happened
yesterday, coming to a head with the unprecedented political
demonstration within Milan’s Court of Justice,” his office said
in the statement. “In calling for a communal and general sense
of responsibility so that neither freedom of speech nor the
autonomy and independence of the judiciary appear called into
question, the head of state called for an immediate change in
climate.”  Berlusconi, a billionaire and three-time premier, obtained
delays to his trials in Milan after entering the hospital and
demonstrating to court-appointed doctors that he was prevented
from attending hearings by an eye ailment. Closing arguments are
due to be made in the trial that has Berlusconi accused of
paying for sex with a minor as well as the appeal to his October
conviction for  tax fraud . He has denied the charges.  Berlusconi is free pending appeal of the March 6 conviction
in a wiretapping case, stemming from the publication of
transcripts of bugged phone calls relating to the 2006 battle
for control of  Banca Nazionale del Lavoro SpA .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  