-- Best Bond Fund Sees No Normal in Broken Market: Australia Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-03-13T03:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/best-bond-fund-sees-no-normal-in-broken-market-australia-credit.html
Credit markets are in uncharted
territory as the global recovery is threatened by a mismatch
between companies hoarding cash and record government debt, said
 Australia ’s top-ranked bond manager.  “It’s pretty clear that the credit cycle is still
broken,” Jeff Brunton, head of credit at AMP Capital Investors,
said in an interview in Sydney this week. “I’ve been doing this
for 20-odd years and it just feels very, very different to a
normal cycle.”  Global growth may be a below-average 2.4 percent this year,
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show, even as central banks pour
unprecedented sums of cash into the financial system. While AMP
expects the rally that’s taken corporate borrowing costs to a
five-year low to hold, it’s also buying derivatives to protect
against  risk aversion  as policy makers grapple with a European
backlash against austerity, Brunton said.  The AMP  Capital Corporate Bond (AMPACBD)  fund has delivered the best
return among Australian fixed-income peers over the decade to
Jan. 31, offering an average annual gain of 7.2 percent,
according to Morningstar Inc. rankings. Over the same period,
investors in Aussie corporate notes earned an annualized 7
percent, a better performance than any other developed market
tracked by Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  While more corporate borrowers are  increasing profits ,
governments in the developed world remain mired in debt.
Officials from  Madrid  to Washington and  London  are faced with
the dilemma of trying to improve stagnant economies while
combating deteriorating finances with austerity measures.  ‘Rocky Path’  “It will be a very rocky path to find our way out of
this,” said Lyn Cobley, Treasurer at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA) , in an interview in Sydney yesterday. “We’re in
absolutely uncharted waters when you look at the level of
government debt there is around the world, the level of central
bank easing and liquidity that’s been pumped into the markets.
How we retrace and retract from that is inevitably going to be
volatile.”  Last month’s Italian election, in which the euro-region’s
most-indebted nation was left with a hung parliament, was “a
pretty important vote against austerity in a major peripheral
country in  Europe ,” said AMP’s Brunton, adding that spreads
didn’t widen as he expected in response.  Yield Premiums  Australian corporate bonds yielded 142 basis points more
than  government bonds  on March 12, holding at the lowest level
since December 2007, according to Bank of America data. The
premium averaged 215 basis points over the past year, compared
with 179 for a comparable U.S. index.  Signs of economic improvement in the U.S. and global
central bank commitments to relaxed monetary policy are keeping
spreads contained,  Brunton said, although he expects further
“significant risk-off events” to occur. As well as the
disruption in  Italy , there is also the prospect  Spain  will lose
its investment-grade  credit rating  and be forced to seek
assistance from the  European Central Bank , he said.  “We’re really holding the powder dry until we see those
events,” Brunton said. AMP is “an active user of derivatives”
and trades credit-default swap indexes to control market risk,
he said.  Default Swaps  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
benchmark investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate
on creditworthiness, closed on March 11 at 79.5 basis points,
the least since February 2011, according to data provider CMA.
It climbed to 79.7 yesterday.  Brunton, 43, has been head of credit at AMP since January
2008. His team there manages more than A$10 billion ($10.3
billion) out of the company’s A$128 billion in assets. Brunton
previously worked at Queensland Investment Corp. in Brisbane as
head of global credit and as head of Australian fixed interest
and cash.  AMP Capital’s corporate bond fund also delivered the best
return over a three-year time horizon and the second-highest in
the year to January, according to Morningstar. It handed
investors an 11 percent return over the 12 months, behind only
the 11.3 percent gain on the Macquarie Core Plus Australian
Fixed Interest Fund, the data show.  AMP beat its competitors in recent years by buying debt
sold by U.K., French and Swiss banks, and piling into 5- to 10-
year notes sold by Australian property companies and utilities,
Brunton said.  Expensive Sovereign  The nation’s sovereign bonds are expensive, even though
their relatively higher yields are attractive to offshore
investors, he said.  The benchmark Australian 10-year yield fell three basis
points to 3.59 percent as of 1:30 p.m. in Sydney, offering 191
basis points more than the average for the nine other sovereign
markets graded AAA at all three major ratings companies. The
Australian rate yesterday touched 3.64 percent, the highest
level since May 2.  According to Brunton, most corporate borrowers are in the
“recovery” stage of the credit cycle, in which debt is falling
and profits are positive. In contrast, sovereigns in Europe and
the U.S. are beset by rising debt and deficits.  “The credit cycle’s broken because we’ve got so much
desynchronization in the cycle that we can’t actually get the
credit creation mechanism to function as it should,” Brunton
said. “We’ve got too much debt at the sovereign level. We talk
about kicking this down the road, but the reality is it’s got to
be dealt with.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  