-- BHP Continuing Internal Corruption Investigation From SEC Probe
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-03-12T21:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/bhp-billiton-says-internal-corruption-probe-from-2009-continues.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, is continuing an internal probe into
possible breaches of anti-corruption laws that stem from a 2009
investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “The internal investigation is continuing and the group is
cooperating with the relevant authorities and reporting the
facts found in the investigation,” the Melbourne-based company
said in an e-mailed statement. “It is not possible at this time
to predict the likely outcomes of the matter.”  The internal probe was sparked by an August 2009 request
for information from the SEC. At the time BHP “disclosed to
relevant authorities evidence that it has uncovered regarding
possible violations of applicable anti-corruption laws involving
interactions with government officials,” it said.  The’s statement from BHP follows a  report  in Australian
newspaper the Age that the  U.S. Department of Justice  and the
Australian Federal Police are investigating the company. The
 Justice Department ’s criminal division said it was conducting
law enforcement proceedings involving BHP, according to the
report by the Age.  A London-based spokesman for BHP declined to comment on the
report. Michael Passman, a spokesman at the Justice Department,
also declined to comment.  The requests from the SEC formed part of an investigation
into terminated mineral exploration projects, BHP said in 2010.
The projects concerned are in Cambodia and the Philippines, the
Sydney Morning Herald said at the time.  The probe by the  Department of Justice  and the Australian
Federal Police extends to hospitality offered as part of BHP’s
sponsorship of the 2008  Olympic Games  in Beijing, the Age
reported. A deal in Western Australia is also being examined, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  