-- Black Smoke Over St. Peter’s Signals No Pope Elected
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-03-12T19:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/black-smoke-over-st-peter-s-signals-no-pope-elected.html
Roman Catholic cardinals failed to
elect a successor to retired  Pope Benedict XVI  as black smoke
rose over St. Peter’s Basilica signaling an inconclusive vote.  Cardinals  under the voting-age limit of 80, who total 115,
began their conclave in  Rome  today, singing a prayer to saints
to guide their decision as they entered the Sistine Chapel and
kneeled under Michelangelo’s fresco of the Last Judgment. They
took a vow to keep secret any details of the proceedings, with
violations bringing excommunication including for support staff.  “We clerics and lay people promise and pledge to maintain,
with the utmost faithfulness, secrecy over everything that
concerns the election of the Roman Pontiff, and everything that
takes place in the election,” Italian Cardinal Giovanni Batista Re said in Latin before the cardinals took their vows.  Hailing from six continents, the red-hatted “princes of
the church” will choose a new leader of the world’s 1.2 billion
Catholics amid a waning church presence in  Europe  and  North
America  and expansion in Asia and  Africa . One ballot is held on
the first day, after which as many as four votes a day can be
conducted. The elections of  John Paul II  in 1978 and his
successor Benedict in 2005 took three days and two days,
respectively. One 13th-century conclave dragged on for three
years.  Tens of thousands people gathered under rainy skies in St.
Peter’s to stare at the tube-shaped chimney erected over the
Sistine chapel that signals the results of the vote.  Betting Odds  Italian Cardinal Angelo Scola is currently the favorite to
become pope with 9-to-4 odds to take over after Benedict’s Feb.
28 abdication, according to betting company William Hill Plc.
Cardinal Peter Turkson of  Ghana  is second at 7-to-2 with Italian
Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone following on odds of 5-to-1.  The German-born Benedict, 85, who on Feb. 11 said he no
longer had the strength to lead the church, was the first pope
to resign since Gregory XII in 1415. The process of electing his
successor will offer few signs about the winner until white
smoke wafts over St. Peter’s Square.  “We won’t be sending any  text messages ” to announce the
new pope’s election, Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi said at
a press briefing on March 9. “A little bit of suspense is one
of the nice things about this event.”  During the conclave cardinals must remain in the 15th-
century Sistine Chapel, adorned with Michelangelo’s frescoes, or
their lodgings in the Vatican. They are barred from any
communications with the outside world and have no access to
telephones, computers or television.  White, Black  When no candidate wins the required two-thirds of the
votes, ballots are burned with a chemical to emit black smoke
over St. Peter’s Square. White smoke signals a new pope, who’s
later accompanied to a balcony over St. Peter’s Square with the
proclamation “Habemus Papam,” Latin for “We have a pope.”  Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, who became Pope Benedict XVI,
was elected after two days and four ballots on April 19, 2005,
17 days after  John Paul ’s death.  “Every time there is an election of a new pope, it’s a new
era,” Canadian Cardinal Marc Ouellet, 68, said on March 4 on
Radio-Canada TV. While unexpected, the possibility of becoming
pontiff “makes me pray, it scares me a little bit.”  Of the 115 cardinal electors, sixty-seven were created by
Benedict and 48 by John Paul II. They spent the last week with
cardinals above the voting age discussing challenges facing the
church and sizing up papal candidates, including possibly
electing the first non-European pope in more than a millennium.  Papal Leaks  Some of the debates focused on how to improve the work of
the Vatican bureaucracy known as the Curia in light of the so-
called “Vatileaks” case involving leaked papal documents,
which depicted a web of Vatican intrigue undermining Benedict’s
governance of the global church.  The place of women in the church was also on the agenda,
according to the Vatican, with discussion of the need to get rid
of barriers to their leadership of Catholic institutions.  The cardinals also pondered how to reconnect with a Western
culture that now largely rejects Catholic teachings on
contraception and homosexuality, fails to understand why women
can’t be priests and lacks interest in topics of a more
theological nature.  “The church is bleeding in the West,” said Jack Valero, a
founder of U.K.-based  Catholic Voices , an international group
that trains lay people to speak publicly about church issues.  “If the doctrine is right, then we need new ways to explain
it because it has become incomprehensible to vast numbers of
people,” Valero said in a telephone interview from  London 
yesterday. “That is a huge job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  