-- Bloomberg LP Weighs CFTC Lawsuit Over Swap Collateral Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-03-12T20:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/bloomberg-lp-threatens-cftc-lawsuit-over-swap-collateral-rules.html
Bloomberg LP threatened to sue the
top U.S. derivatives regulator unless it halts regulations
setting higher collateral standards for swaps than comparable
futures.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, said
the collateral rules are arbitrary and harm its plans to operate
a swap-execution facility, according to a news release and
letter yesterday from Eugene Scalia, partner at Gibson Dunn &
Crutcher LLP.  Swaps that are converted to futures will “automatically be
subject to a lower minimum liquidation time, which in turn will
result in more favorable margin treatment,” Scalia said in the
letter to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The
different standards will drive business away from Bloomberg’s
swap-execution facility, Scalia said.  The CFTC should stay the regulations, which set a five-day
liquidation requirement for financial swaps compared with a one-
day period for futures, Scalia said. He requested a response
from the CFTC by March 19.  Steve Adamske, CFTC spokesman, declined to comment.  “This is a matter critical to the global financial
markets,” Gregory Babyak, Bloomberg’s head of government
affairs, said in a statement. “As a result, we have retained
counsel to prepare to litigate in order to ensure that a flawed
regulation -- which would cause significant public harm -- does
not get implemented.”  Scalia, the son of U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, has won cases challenging regulations imposed by the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The CFTC is appealing a case
Scalia won against a Dodd-Frank rule drafted to limit excessive
speculation in commodity markets.  Scalia’s clients on regulatory matters include the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce and the Investment Company Institute, the
main trade association for mutual funds.  CME Group (CME)  Inc., the world’s largest futures exchange, has
created interest rate swap futures contracts, while
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. said yesterday that it will offer
credit swap futures beginning in May.  “With ICE, CME, and others able to offer futures products
that have substantially lower margin requirements than swaps
that otherwise are functionally interchangeable, the
implications for SEFs (which cannot offer futures) are clear and
profoundly disturbing,” Scalia said in the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  