-- Boeing Cleared by U.S. FAA to Test 787 Battery Changes
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-03-13T07:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/boeing-cleared-by-u-s-faa-to-test-787-battery-changes.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  was cleared by U.S.
regulators to test its proposed redesign of the 787 Dreamliner’s
battery systems, the first step toward resuming service of a
plane grounded worldwide for almost two months.  Boeing will be allowed “limited test flights” with two
787s that will have prototype components of the new battery
system, the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  said in a
statement. Boeing must prove in flight and laboratory tests that
the design meets U.S. standards, and the FAA could insist on
more changes, the agency said in a statement yesterday.  While it’s unclear when the 787 will carry passengers
again, the decision signals Boeing can limit the damage to its
most sophisticated model from lithium-ion battery issues. The
worldwide fleet of 49 Dreamliners has been parked since Jan. 16
after two incidents of batteries overheating and smoking.  “Today’s approval from the FAA is a critical and welcome
milestone toward getting the fleet flying again and continuing
to deliver on the promise of the 787,” Boeing Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Jim McNerney said in a statement.  Boeing shares rose 1.5 percent yesterday to $84.16, the
highest closing price  since May 2008 , after people familiar with
the matter said the company won an order from Ryanair Holdings
Plc. for single-aisle 737s valued at $15.1 billion.  The shares
rose as high as $84.50 in  trading  after the close of  New York 
Stock Exchange trading, following the FAA announcement.  Resumption Timeframe  Boeing has given customers a timeframe for when to expect
commercial flights to resume, though not a specific date, Philip Scruggs, chief marketing officer at International Lease Finance
Corp., told reporters yesterday at the International Society of
Transport Aircraft Traders conference in  Orlando ,  Florida . ILFC
has ordered 74 Dreamliners, according to Boeing’s website.  “It’ll be this summer,” he said. “There’s not going to
be a huge delay.”  The redesign includes new components to minimize potential
of a short-circuit, battery insulation between cells to halt the
spread of fire, and a new heat-resistant case and venting
system, according to the statement. The battery enclosure will
ensure that fire can’t develop inside, according to Boeing. The
voltage range of the batteries, made by Kyoto, Japan-based  GS
Yuasa Corp. (6674) , will also be limited.  “This comprehensive series of tests will show us whether
the proposed battery improvements will work as designed,” U.S.
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in a statement. “We
won’t allow the plane to return to service unless we’re
satisfied that the new design ensures the safety of the aircraft
and its passengers.”  ‘Very Compelling’  Because investigators don’t know what triggered the
incidents on a  Japan  Airlines Co. 787 after landing in  Boston 
and on an  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  flight in Japan, the fixes are
designed to head off every possible way the batteries can fail,
FAA Administrator Michael Huerta told Congress Feb. 28.  “We don’t want to be here, but given where they were, it’s
a very compelling solution,”  John Plueger , president and co-
founder of  Air Lease Corp. (AL) , said in an interview yesterday. The
Los-Angeles based company has 12 787s on order, with deliveries
set to start in 2017.  “As this is a very complete fix, I believe testing will
validate it, and I don’t expect any other problems, so it should
be a relatively quick return to service,” he said.  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board hasn’t
identified what triggered a short-circuit on the JAL battery
that burst into flames shortly after landing.  The safety board, which has no regulatory authority and no
say on when the Dreamliner can resume flying, issued an interim
report March 7 raising new questions about how Boeing determined
the batteries were safe.  Second Incident  The FAA grounded the 787 after the ANA plane made an
emergency landing at Takamatsu airport in southern Japan Jan. 16
because a battery overheated, emitting smoke and fumes. Aviation
regulators around the globe followed the FAA’s lead.  A separate FAA review of the 787’s design, manufacturing
and assembly is under way. That effort was announced Jan. 11,
when Huerta and LaHood pronounced the plane safe.  After the grounding, LaHood said several times he wouldn’t
approve a resumption of 787 flights unless he was certain the
fix would work. Regulators must be “1,000 percent sure” the
plane is safe, he said Jan. 17.  The FAA-approved plan specifies the tests that Boeing must
pass before the plane is approved for passenger service,
according to the agency statement. The tests will be based on
guidelines for  lithium-ion batteries  adopted by RTCA Inc., a
non-profit corporation that advises the FAA on technical
matters. Those guidelines weren’t written when FAA approved the
787 batteries in 2007.  FAA Engineers  The agency’s engineers will observe and be “closely
involved” in all testing, according to the release. The NTSB
has been probing the role that Boeing employees played in
approving the plane’s systems during initial testing prior to
its certification in 2011.  Boeing said it has insisted on enhanced testing and quality
control before battery assembly.  The 787 entered commercial service in late 2011, after more
than three years of production delays. Boeing has delivered the
planes to eight airlines, of which one,  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL) , is based in the U.S.  The twin-engine jet has a starting list price of about $207
million and is being marketed at airlines for long-haul routes.
Lightweight composite-plastic materials and a reliance on
electricity, not air diverted from engines, to run the plane’s
systems help improve fuel economy and range.  ANA, the first and biggest operator of 787s with 17 in its
fleet, rose 1.5 percent to close at 205 yen in  Tokyo , its
highest since July 2. The benchmark Nikkei 225 stock average
fell 0.6 percent.  “As the launch customer we look forward to an early
resumption of flights, with the priority being on safety,”
Ryosei Nomura, a spokesman for ANA, said by telephone. “We see
the FAA’s approval as a big step forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  