-- BofA’s Countrywide Asks Appeals Court to Undo MBIA Ruling
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-03-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/bofa-s-countrywide-asks-appeals-court-to-undo-mbia-ruling.html
Bank of America Corp.  asked a  New
York  appeals court to overturn portions of a lower-court ruling
that improved bond insurer  MBIA Inc. (MBI) ’s chances of recovering
losses on  mortgage loans .  Lawyers for the bank’s Countrywide unit argued yesterday in
 Manhattan  that State Supreme Court Justice Eileen Bransten was
wrong when she ruled last year that MBIA doesn’t need to
establish a “direct causal link” between misrepresentations
about the loans and claims payments made by the insurer.  Countrywide attorneys also argued that Bransten was wrong
when she said MBIA was entitled to rescissory damages if it
proved its claims for fraudulent inducement and breach of
contract. The insurer seeks damages in the amount it has paid on
the insurance policies, minus premiums it has received,
according to Bransten’s ruling.  Barry Ostrager , an attorney with Simpson Thacher & Bartlett
LLP representing Countrywide, said that the insurer waived its
rights to such damages by issuing the policies and reaffirmed
the agreement by collecting premiums after learning of possible
grounds for rescission. The only remedy in the contract is the
repurchase of non-performing loans, he said.  “These are sophisticated parties who entered into
complicated transactions at arm’s length,” Ostrager said during
a hearing before the  First Department  of the New York State
Supreme Court’s Appellate Division.  Loan Defaults  MBIA, which sued Countrywide in 2008, guarantees payments
to investors that bought securities backed by pools of the
lender’s loans. The insurer says the loans were riskier than
portrayed by Countrywide, and as the loans went into default,
the Armonk, New York-based company was forced to pay investors.  Countrywide, acquired by  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America in 2008, had argued that MBIA had to establish
that payments made on the financial guaranty policies resulted
from Countrywide’s misrepresentations and not from the
recession.  In her ruling from January 2012, Bransten said case law
provides no basis to require MBIA to link Countrywide’s alleged
misrepresentations and payments made because of the policies,
saying that “it is upon the misrepresentation that induces
action resulting in damages that fraud or breach occurs.”  Bransten said rescinding the policies would harm investors
in the securities and “may lead to greater economic harm,”
while rescissory damages would make MBIA whole “without
providing a windfall.”  ‘All Remedies’  Philippe Selendy, an attorney with Quinn Emanuel Urquhart &
Sullivan LLP representing MBIA, said the insurer’s agreements
with Countrywide allow it to pursue “any and all remedies” to
recover losses.  MBIA has “no adequate remedy at law” and the repurchase
remedy is limited and only addresses individual loans, Selendy
said. The insurer said in an earnings call in November that its
claims against Bank of America total more than $4.5 billion.  “MBIA would have had zero exposure if it had not been for
Countrywide’s fraud,” Selendy said.  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 602825-2008, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  