-- Bollore Plans to Expand Container Port Operations Across Africa
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-03-12T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/bollore-plans-to-expand-container-port-operations-across-africa.html
Bollore SA, an  investment company 
controlled by French billionaire  Vincent Bollore , is competing
to expand its African unit to operate five more port terminals
and is eyeing similar growth in  Asia  and Latin America.  Bollore  Africa  Logistics is vying to operate container
terminals in Kenya, Somaliland and Mozambique, with the
possibility of upgrading existing infrastructure and building
new facilities, Philippe Labonne, the unit’s managing director,
said in an interview in Johannesburg.  The company, which currently operates 14 port terminals on
the continent, plans to expand in  South Africa  and is targeting
a market share in the logistics industry in the country of as
much as 5 percent. It seeks to become the “preferred partner”
for the biggest companies on the continent, said Labonne.  Revenue for Bollore’s African unit rose 25 percent to 2.5
billion euros ($3.26 billion) in 2012, Labonne said. For fiscal
2011, African sales accounted for 23 percent of  Bollore SA (BOL) ’s
revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company is
part of a consortium bidding to build a second terminal at Ivory
Coast’s Abidjan port in a deal worth 460 million euros, Labonne
said.  Bollore employs 25,000 people in 45 African countries
through 250 subsidiaries. Its operations include two railway
lines, freight forwarding and warehousing facilities.  “We invest 250 million euros to 300 million euros in
Africa” each year, Labonne said. “About 80 percent of the
amount is spent on infrastructure.”  South Africa  Expected privatization of South Africa’s ports would
generate further growth. “We will be ready to invest,” Labonne
said.  “It would be a very important strategic move for our
group,” said Tony Stenning, managing director for Bollore
Africa Logistics east and southern African region.  Bollore Africa will inaugurate a $15 million oil-and-gas
floating terminal tomorrow in Pemba,  Mozambique . Discussions are
at an early stage for a concrete terminal, said Labonne.  Bollore SA shares fell 0.2 percent to 298.35 euros at 1:08
p.m. in Paris, paring the gain to 16 percent this year and
giving the company a market value of 8.02 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Thiel in London at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  