-- Bombardier Hires EADS Executive as Rail Unit Sales Slump
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-03-12T20:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/bombardier-hires-eads-executive-as-rail-unit-sales-slump.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  hired Lutz Bertling
away from European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. to run its
slumping train unit and replace the retiring Andre Navarri.  Bertling, 50, will take over June 3 as head of Bombardier
Transportation, the Montreal-based parent company said today in
a statement. Navarri, 59, will remain as strategic adviser to
Chief Executive Officer Pierre Beaudoin until June 2014, when he
will retire from the company.  Rail-unit  revenue  fell 17 percent to $8.14 billion in 2012,
and profit slid to 3.6 percent of sales from 7.2 percent. The
Berlin-based business produced 49 percent of 2012 sales at
Bombardier, which said last month that it would have a one-year
delay to 2014 in meeting its goal of boosting earnings before
interest and taxes as a percentage of revenue to 8 percent.  “This is a surprise,” David Tyerman, an analyst at
Canaccord Genuity in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.
“Bombardier Transportation has had some issues in the last year
but there were no indications Andre was getting ready to retire.
It makes sense at some point that the baton would be passed, and
maybe this is as good a time as any,” said Tyerman, who has a
buy rating on the stock.  Division Cutbacks  Profit at Bombardier’s rail unit fell last year as the
company incurred costs due to “specific issues” on contracts
in France and  Germany , Chief Financial Officer Pierre Alary said
March 5 at a JPMorgan Chase & Co. transportation conference in
New York.  “What really has to happen is for us to execute on our
projects and not face the type of issues that have an impact,”
Alary said.  Bombardier’s fourth-quarter results included $119 million
in costs to cut about 1,200 jobs in the train division and close
a plant in Germany. Bombardier announced the cutbacks with its
third-quarter results in November.  Revenue at the train unit, excluding currency impacts, will
probably climb less than 10 percent in 2013, Bombardier said
Feb. 21.  Shares of Bombardier rose 2.2 percent to C$4.19 at the
close in Toronto. The stock has gained 11 percent this year
compared with a 3.6 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index.  ‘Impressive Resume’  Bertling was CEO of Eurocopter, the EADS unit that makes
helicopters. He previously worked for the former DaimlerChrysler
AG’s Adtranz train unit. Bombardier acquired Adtranz from
DaimlerChrysler in 2001.  The German-born Bertling “has an impressive resume and
brings to the table a new set of experiences that are compatible
with Bombardier’s aerospace divisions,”  Fadi Chamoun , an
analyst at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said today in a note
to clients. “From our conversations with management, it appears
that Andre had been very clear about retiring at 60 and,
therefore, management was able to ensure a smooth transition,”
said Chamoun, who has an outperform or buy rating on
Bombardier’s stock.  Bertling’s resignation from Eurocopter will be effective
April 30, EADS said in a separate  statement . Guillaume Faury,
45,  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s executive vice president of research
and development, will replace Bertling at Eurocopter starting
May 1, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  