-- Botswana to Seek Bids for $11 Billion Rail-Line Project for Coal
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-03-12T14:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/botswana-to-seek-bids-for-11-billion-rail-line-project-for-coal.html
Botswana, the world’s largest
producer of diamonds, plans to seek initial bids for the
construction of an $11 billion railway line connecting its
biggest coal-mining region to a port in neighboring  Namibia .  The land-locked southern African nation may list tenders by
September to build a 1,500-kilometer (930-mile) rail line from
its coal fields in the east to Walvis Bay in Namibia, Botswana
Chamber of Mines Chief Executive Officer Charles Siwawa said
today in an interview in Goa,  India . The country is considering
building a $4 billion coal port at Walvis Bay.  Demand from China, India and  Japan  for coal from  Africa  is
fueling development of mines outside of  South Africa  and
construction of rail lines and ports necessary to ship the fuel
to buyers. Botswana is betting that neighbors Namibia and
Mozambique will work with it to expand transportation capacity
for commodities as the country seeks to reduce its dependence on
revenue from diamonds.  “Despite large reserves of thermal coal, Botswana doesn’t
feature in the radar of importing nations,” Siwawa said. “We
are opening up in a big way and in three to four years, I am
hopeful there will be a shift.”  Coal will come close to surpassing oil as the world’s top
energy source by 2017, the  International Energy Agency  said in a
report in December. In that period, coal usage will increase in
every region of the world except in the U.S., where the fuel is
being pushed out by natural gas, it said.  The railway line and the port in Namibia would allow the
country to export as much as 40 million metric tons a year of
power-station coal, about half of what South Africa exports a
year, he said. Exports may climb to as much as 115 million tons
in seven years, he said. Botswana currently produces 3 million
tons annually of thermal coal and consumes all of it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  