-- Bovespa-Index Futures Drop as Santander Recommends Selling OGX
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-03-13T12:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/bovespa-index-futures-decline-as-gafisa-reports-unexpected-loss.html
Bovespa-index futures declined
after oil company  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  was
lowered to the equivalent of sell at Banco Santander SA and
downgraded by analysts at three other firms.  The producer controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista  was
recommended the equivalent of hold at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Banco Itau BBA SA and Banco Bradesco SA’s brokerage unit after
reporting on March 11 a drop in oil production last month.  Bovespa-index  futures contracts  expiring in April retreated
0.5 percent to 58,170 at 9:09 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real
weakened 0.1 percent to 1.9659 per dollar.  Plane builder  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  may be active after reporting
fourth-quarter net income that trailed analysts’ forecasts. Cia.
Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo  Pao de Acucar ,  Brazil ’s biggest
retailer, may move after JPMorgan raised its recommendation to
the equivalent of buy.  Oil and gas company  HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA  may be
active after regulators extended the company’s license to
explore blocks in the Amazon’s Solimoes basin for four years.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  has dropped 8.1 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and  China 
has slid 3.9 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.8 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 11 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 6.41 billion
reais ($3.3 billion) yesterday, which compares with a daily
average of 7.62 billion reais this year through March 11,
according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  