-- Brazil Soy Exports Trail 2012 Pace as Ships Wait, Oil World Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-03-12T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/brazil-soy-exports-trail-2012-pace-as-ships-wait-oil-world-says.html
Brazil ’s soybean exports, expected
to be the world’s largest, are trailing last year’s pace because
of shipping bottlenecks, Oil World said.  Brazil  exported  960,000 metric tons of soybeans in
February, 39 percent less than the same month a year earlier,
the Hamburg-based researcher said today in an e-mailed report.
Ships are waiting as many as 60 days to load the oilseed at
Brazilian ports, and a line of trucks at the railway terminal at
Alto Araguaia in southern Mato Grosso may be as much as 60
kilometers (37 miles) long. Brazil’s soybean harvest was 37
percent complete as of March 1, compared with 33 percent at the
same time last year, Oil World said.  Brazil’s corn exports jumped fivefold in January and
February to 5.66 million tons, further limiting soybean
shipments, Oil World said. Exports of the grain probably will be
“unusually large” at least in the first half of this month.
Soybean buyers are shifting to the U.S. and Paraguay amid
Brazilian delays, with Paraguay’s shipments totaling 500,000
tons in February, more than twice the amount a year earlier.  “The global soybean market is currently in an unusually
complicated transition of exports from the U.S. to  South
America ,” Oil World said. “Given this year’s record crop and
the exceptionally strong world demand, a huge export program
must be accomplished in coming months” in Brazil, it said.  Soybean futures, which rose to a record $17.89 a bushel in
September after U.S. drought, are up 4.4 percent this year on
the Chicago Board of Trade on concern about Brazilian exports.
Prices may decline in the second half of this year as shipping
delays ease while U.S. farmers boost planting, Oil World said.  U.S. Shipments  “Each cargo of soybeans shipped from the U.S. instead of
Brazil will further raise the South American supply glut in
coming months and contribute to a bearish scenario once the
logistical problems are subsiding,” Oil World said.  Soybean exports from Brazil, the U.S., Argentina and
 Paraguay , the four largest shippers, totaled 5.26 million tons
in February, 12 percent less than the same month a year earlier,
Oil World said. Rapeseed exports also have declined. Shipments
from top exporters  Canada , Australia and Ukraine were 1.22
million tons in January, down 14 percent from a year earlier.  Rapeseed crops in Ukraine and  Russia  may “rebound
sizably” in 2013 as winter crops are in better condition than
last year, Oil World said. Farmers in Ukraine, the third-biggest
exporter, planted about 7 percent more winter crops than in the
previous season, with the biggest increase in high-yielding
areas of the Ukrainian Forest and Forest-Steppe, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  