-- Brazil’s Planned Ethanol Tax Cut Not Enough, Copersucar Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-03-12T19:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/brazil-s-planned-ethanol-tax-cut-not-enough-copersucar-says.html
A planned tax cut for Brazilian
biofuel won’t be enough to restore investment in new sugar-cane
mills, jeopardizing a 7 billion-real ($3.56 billion) ethanol-
pipeline project, according to Copersucar SA.  The government is expected to soon reduce two taxes called
Pis/Pasep and Cofins on ethanol to cut the price of the fuel,
Paulo Roberto de Souza, president of the Sao Paulo-based sugar
and ethanol trading company, said today in a telephone
interview.  Brazilian ethanol has been losing market share over the
last three years to gasoline, more than 10 percent of which is
being imported and sold at a loss by state-controlled oil
producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , known as Petrobras, according
to Salim Morsy, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s Sao
Paulo office.  Investments in new mills plummeted after 2008, giving
Copersucar and five other companies less reason to develop the
world’s biggest ethanol pipeline, Souza said.  “This measure will improve profitability in the short
term, but just for mills already installed,” Souza said. “It
isn’t enough on its own to incentivize investment in new
production.”  The so-called PIS/Cofins taxes on ethanol may fall from 12
centavos a liter to 3 centavos, which will make the fuel about 5
percent cheaper at the pump, Morsy said. The government has also
offered cane growers a 4 billion-real credit line and will boost
in May the mixture of ethanol with gasoline to 25 percent, from
20 percent as a concession to mills.  Morsy and Souza declined to say when they thought the tax
breaks will be announced.  Less Investment  In February, Energy Minister Edison Lobao told reporters
the government was considering cutting the PIS/Cofins taxes.  Investments in new ethanol projects fell from a peak of
$6.4 billion in 2008 to $256 million last year as ethanol
margins flattened and debt burdens locked a substantial amount
of the producers out of capital markets, Morsy said today in a
telephone interview.  Logum Logistica SA, in which Copersucar owns a 20 percent
stake, will only build all 1,300 kilometers (808 miles) of its
pipeline project linking the center-west region to consumption
hubs and ports on the coast if there are the customers to use
it, Souza said.  “There’s no point in having transport infrastructure if
you don’t expect there to be product,” he said. Petrobras,
Raizen Energia SA, Odebrecht TransPort Participacoes SA each own
20 percent of Logum. Uniduto Logistica SA and Camargo Correa SA
each hold 10 percent.  A first section of the pipeline linking ethanol-producing
region Ribeirao Preto and the municipality of Paulinia in Sao
Paulo state will be inaugurated in April, Souza said. Logum’s
shareholders have approved a second tranche connecting Ribeirao
Preto to Uberaba in the neighboring state of Minas Gerais.  “Each section gets approved when we’re guaranteed supply
of,” ethanol, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  