-- British Land Raises About $734 Million in Share Placing
-- B y   A n d r e w   B l a c k m a n
-- 2013-03-12T17:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/british-land-plans-to-raise-about-745-million-in-share-placing.html
British Land Co. (BLND) , the U.K.’s
second-largest real estate investment trust, raised 493 million
pounds ($734 million) in a share sale to spend on acquisitions
and development. The stock fell the most in 16 months.  British Land sold 89.7 million new shares, equivalent to
about 10 percent of its share capital, to institutional
investors for 550 pence each, the London-based company said in a
statement today. The REIT also announced the sale of Ropemaker
Place for 472 million pounds, the third-largest office-property
deal in the City of London financial district in five years.  The U.K.’s largest property companies,  Land Securities Plc (LAND) 
and British Land, are using their access to capital to invest in
properties and developments at a time when smaller competitors
are struggling to raise money. U.K. commercial real estate
values fell for the 15th consecutive month in January, according
to Investment Property Databank Ltd.  “Vendors are showing an increasing realism around values,
with access to finance continuing to constrain many buyers,”
British Land said.  British Land declined 25.5 pence, or 4.4 percent to 555
pence in  London  trading, the biggest drop since November 2011.
The shares have risen 12 percent in the past 12 months, while
the he FTSE 350 Real Estate Investment Trust Index has climbed
13 percent. The company has a market value of 5 billion pounds.  Acquisition Funding  The money raised from the share sale will be used to pay
for recent transactions, deals that British Land is negotiating
and future purchases. The company said some of its rivals are
trying to withdraw from the U.K. property market, increasing its
investment opportunities. Last month, British Land bought London
properties including the Ealing Broadway Shopping Centre from
Werldhave NV for 183.8 million pounds.  Ropemaker Place will be bought by a group of French and Far
Eastern investors represented by AXA Real Estate Investment
Managers. The property was valued at 455 million pounds at the
end of September and British Land will receive net proceeds of
461 million pounds in cash, the statement showed.  After the Ropemaker Place transaction, half of British
Land’s real estate will be in the City of London financial
district and the rest in the West End, the company said.  The building’s offices are fully occupied with an average
lease of 14 years, British Land said. Tenants include Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Liberum Capital Ltd. and Macquarie Group
Ltd.  The largest office-property deal in the City of London
since January 2008 was the acquisition of a building on Bishops
Square for 557 million pounds by two funds run by J.P. Morgan
Asset Management, according to data compiled by Cushman and
Wakefield Inc. The second-biggest was when Brazilian billionaire
Moise Yacoub Safra paid 477 million pounds for Plantation Place
near the Lloyd’s of London building.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Blackman in Berlin at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  