-- Bulgarian President Set to Announce Interim Cabinet Today
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-03-12T12:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/bulgarian-president-set-to-announce-interim-cabinet-today.html
Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev is set to announce an interim Cabinet appointed to
organize May 12 elections after protests against poverty brought
down the government of Prime Minister Boyko Borissov.  The new Cabinet to be selected today will have three deputy
prime ministers in charge of economy, social welfare and
European Union funding, Plevneliev said on March 5. Marin
Raikov,  Bulgaria ’s current ambassador in Paris and former deputy
foreign minister, may become the premier, Pressa newspaper
reported, citing unidentified people close to the process. Once
the Cabinet is appointed, Plevneliev will dissolve Parliament.  Bulgaria is mired in turbulence after anti-austerity
protests that have sunk prime ministers across  Europe  forced out
Borissov, a former bodyguard elected on an anti-corruption
platform in 2009. His government focused on budget cuts to ward
off bailouts and turbulent bond markets, boosting unemployment
to the highest in eight years.  Bulgaria is in its fifth week of protests against poverty,
demanding nationalization and a change in the political system.
Some protesters set up tents outside the Parliament building in
central Sofia demanding amendments to the election law.  The energy regulator cut power prices on March 5 by an
average of 7 percent after high electricity and heating bills
sparked the first protests on Feb. 9. Pensions will be raised
starting April 1 as was planned in this year’s budget,
Plevneliev said.  ‘Excessive Austerity’  Excessive austerity brought down Bulgaria’s Cabinet,
 Nouriel Roubini , the  New York  University professor who predicted
the 2008 global financial crisis, said in a Feb. 26 interview.  Borissov’s government was forced to freeze wages and delay
value-added-tax reimbursements to businesses to narrow a
widening budget deficit and stave off the impact of the euro-
area debt crisis.  The fall of the Cabinet will fuel spending before elections
and have “negative implications for fiscal consolidation,”
Moody’s Investors Service said on Feb. 25.  The lack of a fully functioning government “creates
uncertainty about policy direction,”damages “investor and
 consumer confidence ” and undermines “the 2013 outlook for an
already weak economy,” Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  