-- Bundesbank Almost Doubles Risk Provisions on ECB Measures
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-03-12T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/bundesbank-almost-doubles-risk-provisions-on-ecb-measures.html
Germany ’s Bundesbank almost doubled
its risk provisions in 2012, citing increased potential for
losses stemming from the  European Central Bank ’s monetary
policy.  The Frankfurt-based central bank increased provisions for
general risks by 6.7 billion euros ($8.7 billion) to 14.4
billion euros, it said in an e-mailed statement today when
releasing its 2012 annual report. Due to higher interest income,
the Bundesbank’s profit rose to 664 million euros from 643
million euros in 2011. The increase in provisions stems from the
ECB’s enhanced support of the financial sector over the course
of the year, the Bundesbank said.  “The past year had seen an overall increase in
counterparty credit risks stemming from refinancing loans and
purchasing bonds,” Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said in
the statement.  The ECB injected more than 1 trillion euros into the
banking system with two three-year refinancing loans designed to
avoid a credit crunch. Some 22 percent of those loans have since
been paid back as the ECB’s pledge to buy unlimited  government
bonds  if certain conditions are met eased tensions on financial
markets.  Weidmann reiterated in a foreword to the annual report that
the Bundesbank is critical of some of the measures taken by the
ECB because “they blur too much the responsibilities of
monetary and fiscal policies.”  Declining Inflation  The euro area has only recovered “some of the confidence”
lost as a result of the debt crisis, Weidmann said, adding that
German growth can be expected to pick up in the course of the
year.  Inflation is less of a concern for now and “stirring up
fears” of price increases is uncalled for, Weidmann said.  “In the short term, we in the euro area have, if anything,
declining inflation risks,” he said.  While the German economy is “structurally strong, it
couldn’t circumvent the difficulties” in the region, the
Bundesbank report said, citing “high uncertainty and severe
recessions in parts of the euro area.”  The German economy grew 0.7 percent in 2012, the Bundesbank
said, confirming the numbers released by the Federal Statistics
Office in January. It expects growth to slow to 0.4 percent in
2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  