-- California Begins $2.6 Billion Bond Sale After S&P Rating Boost
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-03-12T14:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/california-begins-2-6-billion-bond-sale-after-s-p-rating-boost.html
California  began selling about $2.6
billion in general-obligation bonds to individual investors, in
the state’s first debt offer since it was upgraded by Standard &
Poor’s in January.  The issue includes a 10-year tax-exempt portion that is
being marketed at a 2.54 percent yield, according to three
people familiar with the deal who declined to be named because
the prices aren’t final. That interest rate is about 0.7
percentage point above a Bloomberg Valuation  index  of AAA munis.  The most-populous U.S. state earned its first upgrade from
S&P since 2006 after Governor Jerry Brown curbed pension costs,
pushed for a voter-backed tax boost and proposed a budget for
next fiscal year that projects a surplus. New York-based S&P
raised California to A, its sixth-highest rank, lifting it out
of a tie with  Illinois  as the lowest-rated state.  The relative borrowing cost for issuers in the state has
been cut in half since the 74-year-old Democrat took office in
2011. The extra yield over top-rated municipal bonds that
investors demand to own 10-year debt of the state and its
localities was  0.52 percentage point  yesterday, the narrowest
since November 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Some portfolio managers in the $3.7 trillion municipal
market are wary of adding California securities with spreads
down to about half their five-year average.  Craig Brothers, who helps oversee $3 billion of munis as
managing director of Bel Air Investment Advisors LLC in Los
Angeles, said the state may need to increase yields in some
maturities to attract buyers. Yields move inversely to bond
prices.  The preliminary yields are “aggressive,” Brothers said in
an interview. “I’d be surprised if they don’t end up with some
pretty good-sized balances unless they cheapen it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  