-- Cameron Tells Conservatives to Stop Sniping And Get Into Line
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-03-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/cameron-tells-conservatives-to-stop-sniping-and-get-into-line.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
lieutenants moved to discipline his  Conservative Party , telling
lawmakers and members of his Cabinet to stop undermining him and
focus on the opposition.  In the past three weeks, Cameron has seen the U.K.’s
credit-rating downgraded and his party, already behind in the
polls for a year, pushed into third place in a special election,
stoking criticism of his leadership.  At a morning meeting of Conservative Cabinet members
yesterday, Education Secretary Michael Gove attacked those in
the room who were positioning themselves to succeed Cameron. He
didn’t name names, according to one person present who declined
to be identified. Home Secretary Theresa May on March 9 gave a
speech that ranged far from her brief and set out her views of
the agenda on which the party should fight the 2015 election.  At a private meeting for lawmakers in Parliament later in
the day, Cameron faced his rank and file. According to two of
those present, his newly appointed election strategist, Lynton Crosby, told them they must decide whether they were
commentators or participants in the political fight. They were
urged to think about the impression created by their comments on
the Twitter Inc. social network.  Cameron addressed the meeting first, offering a reprise of
his party conference speech from October, in which he said
Britain was now in a global race. He then handed over to Crosby,
who was hired in November.  Johnson’s Adviser  Crosby, an Australian who helped  John Howard  win power
before coming to Britain to work on the Conservatives’ losing
2005 general election campaign, was behind London Mayor Boris Johnson’s successful campaigns in 2008 and 2012. He told
lawmakers gathered in the Attlee Suite, in Parliament’s
Portcullis House, that his strategy for the 2015 general
election would involve simple messages attacking the opposition
 Labour Party .  According to one lawmaker, Crosby said the Conservatives
should highlight tensions between Labour leader  Ed Miliband  and
the party’s treasury spokesman  Ed Balls .  At the same March 9 event where May spoke, Michael Ashcroft, a former Tory treasurer who now conducts political
polls, suggested the party was on course for defeat, and that
its strategy of trying to gain seats in 2015 was far too
optimistic. A fan of military history, he offered a World War II
analogy, saying it was “like planning the final assault on
Berlin while evacuating the beaches at Dunkirk.”  Election Surprise  Addressing Conservative lawmakers, Crosby described a
moment in 2007 when he had been sitting in a hotel watching
 Boris Johnson  on TV, and turned to his wife and told her the man
would never be mayor. It showed how it was possible to be wrong,
he said.  Crosby said he’d read all the Twitter comments that
Conservatives had made after the party ran third in the March 1
Eastleigh election, and that twice as many had been negative as
positive. He told them they shouldn’t comment on the party
leadership. He urged them to stop using jargon about the
economy, and try to use words such as “cost of living,” which
people understood.  In the final part of the hour-long meeting, Cameron took
questions in batches of three, called out by George Young, the
chief whip, who is in charge of party discipline.  One Tory lawmaker present, Julian Lewis, asked about the
possibility of an electoral pact with the U.K. Independence
Party, which finished ahead of the Conservatives in the
Eastleigh vote won by the Cameron’s Liberal Democrat coalition
partners.  Cameron’s Response  Cameron said the sentiments of people who backed the the
party should be respected, without being pandered to. Another
urged Cameron to attack Church of England bishops who had
criticized welfare cuts, a suggestion Cameron rebuffed.  Lawmakers representing seats the Conservatives stand to
lose at the next election echoed the calls for unity, sentiments
greeted with applause in the room.  The party will on March 16 unveil a 10-point promotion
highlighting its achievments, to remind Tories what their
messages are. Included on the list will be starting on the path
of deficit reduction and cutting immigration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  