-- Camp Offers Option That Would Revamp Partnership Tax Law
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-03-12T21:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/camp-offers-option-that-would-revamp-partnership-tax-law.html
Partnerships such as  hedge funds 
and private equity firms would lose some of their flexibility to
allocate income and tax benefits among their members under one
option proposed by the top Republican tax writer in Congress.  The proposal by Representative  Dave Camp  would scrap the
separate rules governing partnerships and those overseeing
closely held S corporations and create a unified system that
adopts features of both.  Camp, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee,
released the proposal as the more aggressive of two options in a
draft plan to overhaul taxation of small businesses. He also
released a set of incremental changes to partnerships and S
corporations, along with proposals to extend expensing rules,
allow more businesses to use cash accounting and simplify
deductions for startup businesses.  “It’s not meant to be a complete product,” Camp told
reporters, adding that he is inviting comments from affected
businesses.  Under the U.S.  tax code , businesses that aren’t organized
as traditional corporations pay their taxes through their
owners’ individual returns, regardless of their size. The draft
wouldn’t alter that rule. Many so-called pass-through companies
are large, such as global accounting and law firms.  Corporate Profits  By contrast, profits earned by corporations face a tax at
the entity level and then again when shareholders receive
dividends or capital gains. The Obama administration’s framework
for overhauling business taxation suggests taxing some large
pass-through companies as corporations.  “It is not something that I’m considering at this point,”
Camp said.  The draft is the third in a series of proposals the
 Michigan  Republican has released over the past 17 months. The
other two focused on international taxation and taxation of
financial products.  Camp, 59, plans to combine them into a full rewrite of the
tax code that would broaden the base and lower individual and
corporate rates as much as possible. He has said he expects the
committee to pass the plan this year.  The committee has broken into 11 working groups that are
considering various aspects of  tax policy . A statement from the
panel’s top Democrat,  Sander Levin  of Michigan, suggested that
Camp’s draft pre-empts some of those groups’ studies.  Understanding Law  “Going forward, we must allow them to do their work to
fully understand the strengths and weaknesses of present law,
without prejudicing their discussions by suggesting solutions to
problems that are still under investigation,” said Levin, who
added that Camp adopted several bipartisan ideas.  Camp’s more aggressive option on partnership taxation would
loosen the rules that now apply to closely held S corporations.
Those companies would no longer face limits on the number of
shareholders or a prohibition on foreign ownership.  Partnerships, though, would lose the flexibility to
allocate tax benefits to partners except for net ordinary income
and loss, net capital income and loss and tax credits.
Currently, a partnership can distribute each tax break.  Camp’s draft doesn’t affect publicly traded partnerships
such as master limited partnerships and real estate investment
trusts.  The  National Federation of Independent Business , the
International Franchise Association and the  National Association
of Manufacturers  all issued supportive statements.  “The Camp proposal would reduce compliance costs and
provide greater certainty to the more than 8 million employees
across the country who wake up every day and go to work in the
franchise industry and those Americans who aspire to become
franchisees,” said Judith Thorman, senior vice president of
government relations and public policy for the franchise
association. The group’s board of directors includes executives
of  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and  Choice Hotels International Inc. (CHH)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  