-- Canadian Company Net Hiring Plans Diminish, Manpower Says
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-03-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/canadian-company-net-hiring-plans-diminish-manpower-says.html
Canadian employers lowered their
hiring intentions for next quarter, with a gloomier outlook for
manufacturers countering more upbeat plans by transportation and
utility firms, according to a survey by  Manpower Inc. (MAN)   The share of companies planning to hire in the second
quarter exceeded those forecasting cutbacks by 12 percentage
points after adjusting for seasonal variations, down from a net
reading of 13 points in the prior survey, according to the
Milwaukee-based employment-services firm.  Canada’s  jobless rate  remained at a four-year low of 7
percent last month, and economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast no improvement for the rest of 2013. Economic growth
slowed to a 0.6 percent annualized pace in the fourth quarter
and Bank of Canada governor Mark Carney said last week his
policy interest rate will probably stay at 1 percent for “a
period of time.”  The labor market “is continuing to stay steady,” even
with slower growth, Byrne Luft, vice president of operations for
Manpower Canada, said in a telephone interview from Toronto.
“We have a lot of employers saying we’re going to maintain
course.”  The Manpower report showed a seasonally adjusted net hiring
outlook of 22 percent for transportation and public utilities,
the highest in six years. Construction companies reported a net
hiring outlook of 17 percent.  Education employers were the least optimistic group with a
net hiring outlook of 4 percent.  The survey of more than 1,900 Canadian employers was taken
Jan. 17 to Jan. 29 and has a margin of error of 2.2 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  