-- Canadian Natural Weighs Shale Sale Amid Glut
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-03-12T20:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/canadian-natural-weighs-shale-sale-amid-glut.html
Decisions by  Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  and  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  to sell almost half a
million acres of natural gas-soaked rock threaten to depress
prices for land that drew a record premium last year.  Canadian Natural may sell 250,000 acres in the Montney
Shale, one of western  Canada ’s  largest gas finds . Talisman also
is seeking a buyer for parts of its 200,000-acre holding, which
it estimates may be worth as much as $1.5 billion. The Calgary-
based companies join other producers who are offering acreage
after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Petroliam Nasional Bhd., or Petronas
as the Malaysian company is known, paid billions of dollars for
stakes in the Montney.  “It’s undeniably a buyer’s market,” said Robert Mark, a
director and analyst at MacDougall, MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in
Toronto, which has C$2.5 billion ($2.44 billion) under
management. “There is more up for sale than I’ve ever seen in
my 12 years in the business, between land packages, joint
venture opportunities and full companies.”  Petronas’ $5.2 billion takeover for  Progress Energy 
represented a 97 percent premium, the highest ever paid for an
oil and gas producer worth more than $1 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Exxon paid C$2.86 billion to buy
Celtic Exploration Ltd. last month, or C$6,800 an acre for its
Montney holdings, according to ITG Investment Research Inc.  ‘Scarcity Premium’  The Montney, located in  Alberta  and British Columbia,
offers producers like Exxon,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  the option of exporting Canadian gas to  Asia  by liquefying
it at terminals on the Pacific Coast.  “With more and more assets coming to market, the scarcity
premium is not necessarily what it was,” Mark said in a phone
interview on March 7. Companies proposing liquefied natural gas
terminals have already snapped up the best Montney acreage, he
said, with Progress the “the crown jewel.”  Talisman  earned  $376 million, or 37 cents a share, during
the fourth quarter, its first profit during the last three-month
period of the year in four years, after selling assets and
cutting costs, the company said on Feb. 13. Canadian Natural’s
fourth-quarter  profit  declined 58 percent to C$352 million, or
32 cents a share, as crude prices fell and it recorded a
foreign-exchange loss, the company said on March 7.  Buyers won’t offer the same premiums as Exxon and Petronas
due to the acreage glut, much of it not in the best parts of the
Montney, said Greg Dean, analyst and portfolio manager who helps
oversee about C$6 billion at CI Investments Inc. in Toronto.  ‘Substantial Discount’  “The reason you won’t see those premiums is the supply and
demand imbalance,” Dean said in a phone interview yesterday.
“There will be a substantial discount.”  The Montney, a 26,000 square-kilometer (16,155 square-mile)
formation the size of  Vermont , is estimated to contain 450
trillion cubic feet of gas, according to the British Columbia
 government .  “We don’t speculate on what we may or may not acquire, nor
do we speculate on prices,” Chevron spokesman Lloyd Avram said
in an e-mailed reply to questions. Exxon does not comment on
potential future acquisitions,  Alan Jeffers , an Exxon spokesman,
said in a phone interview yesterday. Stephen Doolan, a Shell
spokesman, also declined to comment when reached on his phone.  Canadian Natural, the nation’s largest gas producer after
Encana Corp., and Talisman are trying to raise cash through sale
or joint partnerships as both cut spending on gas output in the
aftermath of North American prices hitting a 10-year low.  ‘Lot of Transactions’  Canadian Natural stock dropped 9.6 percent over the past 12
months to yesterday and has 17  buys , eight holds and no sells
while Talisman has declined 6.4 percent with eight  buys , 19
holds and no sells, according to analyst ratings compiled by
Bloomberg. Both have trailed the benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite index which is up 2.8 percent over the same period.  Canadian Natural was little changed at C$32.12 at 4:07 p.m.
in Toronto today. Talisman, which settled a dispute over its Yme
offshore operation in Norway earlier today, rose 1 percent to
C$12.56.  The Montney sale is part of Talisman’s plan for $2 billion
to $3 billion in global asset sales or joint venture deals as it
seeks to cut costs and boost profit, the company said on March
6.  “There are a lot of transactions and a lot of other
acquisition and divestment activities going on in the Montney
and that of course is a concern,” CEO Hal Kvisle told reporters
on a March 6 conference call.  Canadian Natural said it doesn’t need to sell and will only
do so at the “right price,”  Steve Laut , president of Canadian
Natural, said in a March 7 phone interview.  The Montney
strategy is a departure for the company, which doesn’t usually
sell assets or seek partners.  ‘Strong Demand’  “If you look at some analysts, they say it’s a buyers’
market and other analysts say there’s strong demand for these
properties,” Laut said. “This is well positioned for somebody
who needs gas for LNG projects. We expect some of those players
would be interested.”  One of the largest Montney holders,  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR) , said
in October it had hired an adviser to review alternatives for
its 156,000 Montney acres. The company, based in El Dorado,
 Arkansas , would “seriously consider a sale” if it gets a
“compelling offer,” Chief Executive Officer Steven Cosse told
analysts on a Jan. 31 conference call.  Advantage Oil & Gas Ltd. (AAV) , a Calgary producer with Montney
acreage, said on Feb. 5 it hired advisers to review strategic
alternatives. Advantage’s “core Glacier asset is materially
undervalued,” in its share price, the company said in a
statement.  Australian Producer  Tammy Taylor, a spokeswoman for Murphy Oil, did not
immediately return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment.
Advantage Chief Executive Officer Andy Mah and the company’s
investor relations department did not immediately return phone
messages.  Companies proposing liquefied natural gas terminals in
Canada may not be done buying, Eric Nuttall, a portfolio manager
who oversees C$90 million at Sprott Asset Management LP, said in
a March 7 phone interview.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd.,  Australia ’s second-biggest oil
producer, is in talks with companies on a potential partnership
to enter Canada’s gas industry, CEO  Peter Coleman  said in an
interview on Feb. 21.  Laura Lunt, a spokeswoman for Woodside,
declined to comment on possible purchases or prices.  Private talks may have prompted Talisman and Canadian
Natural to list acreage for sale, Nuttall said.  ‘Curiously Coincidental’  “To me, it’s curiously coincidental that all of these
packages come to market at exactly the same time,” he said.
“It makes me suspicious that there’s been interest expressed by
a very large entity,”  Tourmaline Oil Corp. (TOU)  and  Painted Pony Petroleum Ltd. (PPY)  are
potential takeover targets because of their Montney holdings,
Dean said.  Painted Pony Chief Executive Officer Patrick Ward said the
potential Montney sales by Talisman and Canadian Natural don’t
“hurt” the company. “We don’t need to get bought out,” Ward
said yesterday in a phone interview, pointing to cash on the
company’s balance sheet and no debt.  Scott Kirker, a Tourmaline spokesman and general counsel
for the company, declined by phone to comment.  ‘Continuing’ Buy  The area has been a buyer’s market for two years, Dean
said. “We see it continuing.”  The acreage most in demand may be small pieces that can be
tacked onto larger positions, as well as big swaths of land to
support new LNG entrants, according to Goodman & Co. Investment
Counsel Ltd.  “There are buyers for little tuck-ins and the big
spreads,” Toronto-based Jennifer Stevenson, vice president who
helps manage about C$100 billion Goodman, said in an e-mail on
March 8. “The in-between will struggle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  