-- Canadian Dollar in Tightest Range in Month on Economy
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-03-12T21:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/canadian-dollar-falls-first-time-in-four-days-on-outlook.html
The Canadian dollar traded in the
tightest range in almost a month against its U.S. counterpart on
concern strong employment data last week may not translate into
sustained economic growth.  The currency fluctuated after gaining for three days versus
the greenback after reports on March 8 showed both the U.S. and
 Canada  created more jobs than expected last month. The Canadian
currency has depreciated for five straight weeks, the longest
slide since June, after Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said
in January slower-than-forecast growth would keep interest rates
low.  “The U.S. economy is out-pacing some of the other large
markets and the Dow has been quite impressive, so I think this
U.S. dollar story will continue and I think the Canadian dollar
still has room to weaken off,” said Blake Jespersen, managing
director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal by phone from
Toronto. “We still prefer to buy dollar/Canada on dips and
expect the commodity currencies to weaken off more than they
have.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, was little changed at
C$1.0257 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. The currency
traded between C$1.0249 and C$1.0284, the tightest range since
Feb. 14. One loonie buys 97.49 U.S. cents.  Canada’s 10-year  government bonds  rose, with yields falling
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.91 percent.
The 2.75 percent security maturing in June 2022 gained 30 cents
to C$107.10.  El-Erian’s View  Futures on crude oil, the country’s largest export, rose
0.6 percent to $92.61 after touching $93.47, the highest level
in almost two weeks. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  fell 0.2
percent to 14,450.06 after rising to an all-time high of
14,478.80.  A report on March 14 is forecast to show Canadian home
prices increased at a slower pace in January, growing 0.1
percent from 0.2 percent the month before, according to the
median estimate of a Bloomberg survey of eight economists.  “There is concern out there -- we think it’s exaggerated -
- about your housing market in terms of you may get a housing
crash,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer and co-chief
investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., said on
Canada’s Business News Network. “We don’t think that is the
case. We also don’t think the Bank of Canada will be forced to
cut rates. So, at some point, the currency will become
attractive for us.”  Options Traders  Housing starts  fell to their lowest point since the end of
the 2009 recession in January before beating expectations with a
180,719 increase last month, the Canada Mortgage & Housing
Corporation said March 8. That’s more than the 175,000 increase
forecast in the median estimate of a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Canada created  50,700 jobs  last month, more than double the
highest prediction in a Bloomberg News survey, while employment
in the U.S. increased 236,000 last month compared to the 165,000
median forecast. Unemployment rates in both nations are at four-
year lows.  Options traders were the least bearish on the loonie in
more than three weeks as so called risk-reversals show traders
were paying 1.14 percent for protection against loonie weakness,
the least since Feb 18.  “The loonie is likely to face a competitive disadvantage
vs the USD over the near and medium term as the U.S. economy
should out-pace the Canadian economy over the next 12 to 18
months,” Adrian Miller, director of fixed-income strategies at
GMP Securities LLC in New York said by e-mail. “Indeed, most of
the “dollar” currencies (Aussie, Kiwi and Loonie) should
under-perform given their commodity centric economies during a
period of uneven, albeit it, improving global growth theme.”  The loonie has fallen 0.8 percent this year against nine
developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Index. Only the yen and the pound have fallen more, at
8.1 percent and 6.5 percent.  “Many people that had bought a little bit of Canadian
dollars on Friday are maybe just taking a little bit of profit,
they’re probably seeing the same stories I’ve seen about being
bearish on the Canadian dollar,” said Jane Foley, senior
currency strategist at Rabobank International by phone from
 London . “Perhaps they don’t want to sit on it too long, fearing
the bearish factors will rise to the fore again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  