-- Carbon Drops to Second-Lowest Close After EU Permit Sale Fails
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-03-12T18:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/carbon-drops-to-second-lowest-close-after-eu-permit-sale-fails.html
European Union carbon permits
dropped to their second-lowest close ever, after the bloc
canceled an auction of permits for the first time as bids failed
to reach a secret reserve price.  The sale was called off because the price would have
cleared “significantly” below the prevailing market rate,
according to European Energy Exchange AG, the unit of Deutsche
Boerse AG that runs the auction. EU allowances for delivery in
December fell 5.6 percent to close at 3.73 euros ($4.86) a
metric ton on London’s ICE Futures  Europe , having earlier
dropped as much as 6.1 percent. The contract closed as low as
3.42 euros on Jan. 31.  Carbon has plunged almost 90 percent in the past five years
as the euro area’s second recession since 2008 cut industrial
demand for permits, contributing to an oversupply that EU
lawmakers are struggling to fix. Failed auctions may push the
cost of emitting carbon dioxide even lower as unsold credits are
held over for the next four sales under EU rules.  “There are three potential negative signs from this
failure,” Milan Hudak, a carbon analyst at Virtuse Energy sro
in  Prague , said today by e-mail. “It was a relatively small
auction, it was the first cancellation of an EU-wide sale, and
as prices did not stay down for long, it seems the market can
live with cancellations.”  The EU’s carbon system gives and sells allowances to
factories and utilities, which must surrender enough permits to
cover their discharges of carbon dioxide or face fines. This
year, nations from  Germany  to  Greece  began selling more than 40
percent of their allowances in auctions instead of granting them
for free.  Supply Boost  The EU sells permits on EEX three times a week on behalf of
24 member states. Germany sells permits separately on EEX every
Friday, while the U.K. auctions allowances once every two weeks
on ICE Futures.  Germany had two auction failures this year, on Jan. 18 and
Feb. 22, when bids didn’t reach the reserve price.  Today’s 3.5 million of unsold EU permits will be
distributed equally over the next four auctions, adding about
870,000 tons to sales scheduled from March 14 through March 21,
according to New Energy Finance.  Flanders, the Belgian region, today sold 2 million tons of
Phase 2 permits on EEX that are valid to cover emissions for the
five years through 2012.  Carbon traders face more supply from EU nations that have
until April 30 to sell excess Phase 2 allowances reserved for
new entrants.  “Further cancellations are likely, with no immediate news
in sight about backloading prospects and around 30 to 40 million
tons of Phase 2 new entrant reserves still to be sold by April
30,” Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst at New Energy Finance in
 London , said by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  