-- Carbon Capture Vital for EU as Fossil Fuels to Stay, Draft Shows
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-03-12T15:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/carbon-capture-vital-for-eu-as-fossil-fuels-to-stay-draft-shows.html
The European Union will seek to
promote the deployment of technology to capture carbon dioxide
to attain its climate goals as fossil fuels are to remain a part
of the bloc’s energy mix, according to a draft EU document.  The price of carbon is too low to stimulate investment in
carbon capture and storage, or CCS, and existing policy tools
have so far failed to encourage the development of large-scale
demonstration projects, according to the draft prepared by the
European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm in Brussels.  To stimulate the CCS projects, the 27-nation bloc could
consider using its emissions-trading system to provide
incentives for the technology, a certificate program or a
requirement to install special equipment for new investments,
the commission said in the document, which was obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  “In order to allow fossil fuels to remain an integral part
of the energy mix and the EU and to offer a potential for a
green re-industrialization of Europe’s declining industries,
early deployment of CCS technology at a large scale is needed,”
the commission said in the document, due to be published later
this month.  The EU is set to discuss this year the future of its
climate and energy policy after carbon prices in the bloc’s
market plunged 76 percent in the past four years amid a
recession and member states consider options for renewables and
energy efficiency after 2020. The document on the CCS, to be
published along with a consultation paper on a 2030 energy and
climate framework, will start a public debate on those issues
involving national governments, industry, non-governmental
organizations, analysts and experts.  Climate Goals  The energy and climate consultation paper will build on the
commission’s earlier assessments, which showed that the most
cost-efficient way for the EU to attain its long-term climate
goals is to cut  greenhouse gases  by 40 percent in 2030,
according to a draft obtained by Bloomberg News. Leaders of the
bloc, which has a binding target to reduce emissions by 20
percent in 2020 compared with 1990 levels, voiced political
support for cutting pollution by at least 80 percent in 2050.  Carbon capture and storage plays an important role in the
EU decarbonisation scenarios, with between 7 percent and 23
percent of power generation using the technology by 2050,
according to the commission. By 2035 it starts to contribute
“on a broader scale” to reducing  carbon emissions , according
to assessments by the commission in the past two years.  ‘Greater Costs’  “But the CCS is now at a crossroads,” the EU said in the
draft document on  carbon capture . “Delays of CCS on coal and
gas-fired power will likely lead to greater costs for
decarbonizing the electricity sector in the longer term,
especially for those member states that rely heavily on fossil
fuels.”  Following a decline in coal and carbon prices, coal has
become “a new and economically interesting input for power
production in the EU,” the commission said.  No CCS demonstration projects got subsidies in the first
portion of EU aid from a special carbon-permit reserve, known as
NER300, last year. While the bloc aimed to fund at least eight
CCS projects when it started the contest two years ago, most
were not confirmed by national governments and could not be
considered for funding. The 275 million euros ($359 million)
envisaged for CCS in the first portion of the aid remains
available to fund projects under the second phase, which will
cover the sale of 100 million carbon allowances.  ‘High Share’  To “revitalize” CCS, the commission plans to seek
comments from governments, industry, lobbies and experts on the
role of the technology in  Europe , according to the draft
communication. Under the first scenario, member states that have
a “high share” of coal in their energy mix and industrial
processes could be required to develop a roadmap on shifting
their power generation towards nuclear or renewables by 2050 or
present a national strategy to prepare for the deployment of the
CCS, the commission said in the draft.  Another option would be to “re-structure” the EU
emissions trading system, or the EU ETS, so that auctioning
revenues could stimulate the deployment of carbon capture, “in
a similar exercise to NER300,” according to the commission.  Other  policy tools  that the EU could propose are mandatory
emission performance standards or a CCS certificate system,
which would require some carbon emitters or suppliers of fossil
fuels to buy certificates equivalent to a certain amount of
their emissions, the commission said in the draft.  CCS Certificates  “Such a system could work well with the ETS, as the volume
of CCS certificates that would be required would have its
equivalent in ETS allowances, which would therefore be withdrawn
from the market,” it said. “If targeted in scope, the impact
of the functioning of the ETS would be limited whilst still
allowing the flexibility to business to meet the cap.”  The commission will also be seeking views on whether
utilities should be required to install CCS-ready equipment for
all new investments in coal and potentially also in gas to
facilitate the CCS retrofit, according to the draft document.
Two other questions the EU is planning to ask is whether fossil
fuel providers should contribute through “specific measures
that ensure financing” for the deployment of CCS and how can
public acceptance for the technology be increased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  