-- Chesapeake Faces Judge as BNY, Investors Attack Bond Bid
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-03-12T16:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/chesapeake-faces-judge-as-bny-investors-attack-bond-bid.html
Bank of New York Mellon  Corp. asked
a judge to reject  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s bid for an emergency
order allowing it to redeem more than $1.3 billion in notes
early without paying new interest, saving about $400 million.  Investors including  hedge funds  holding $250 million in 
debt echoed the bank’s request as they sought to intervene. A 
hearing is set for later today in the suit, in which Chesapeake 
seeks a ruling that it can still meet a March 15 deadline to 
redeem the 6.775 percent notes at par, and not the higher “make 
whole” price.       “Chesapeake, having missed the deadline to redeem the
notes at par, now demands an advisory opinion from the court,
seeking to guarantee the idiosyncratic treatment of a future
redemption notice which has not yet been made,” BNY Mellon, the
indenture trustee for the notes, said in a filing today in
 Manhattan  federal court opposing the request.  The notes, issued in February 2012 and due March 2019, were
pushed by traders to a record 105.9 cents on the dollar on the
day the suit was filed, a signal traders may believe the
 Oklahoma City-based company  would have to pay a premium to call
the debt.  Chesapeake, the second biggest natural gas producer in the
U.S., argued it has until March 15 to issue a formal notice that
it will redeem the notes early, while Bank of New York Mellon
said the early redemption would need to be completed by that
date to avoid the make-whole provision that would include paying
interest.  Today’s Filing  In its filing today,  Bank of New York Mellon  argued
Chesapeake isn’t in danger of “irreparable harm” in the case,
citing a standard for obtaining such an injunction, because the
energy company can seek money damages if it wins and won’t
suffer permanent damage. The bank also said Chesapeake can’t
prove it has a likelihood of success -- another requirement.  Bank of  New York  Mellon initially supported Chesapeake’s
plan when the energy company first discussed early redemption
with the bank on Feb. 20, according to the complaint. Two days
later, the bank changed its mind, Chesapeake said.  In a separate court filing today, several investors,
calling themselves an “ad hoc noteholder group,” asked court
permission to intervene in the litigation -- a status that would
allow them to attend hearings and file papers in the case.  Investor Group  They include Archer Capital Management LP, Ares Management
LLC, Aurelius Capital Management LP, Carlson Capital LP, Cetus
Capital LLC, Latigo Partners LLC, Monarch Alternative Capital
LP, P. Schoenfeld Asset Management LP, River Birch Capital LLC
and Taconic Capital Advisors LP.  “If Chesapeake chooses to issue a notice of redemption, it
must live with the consequences of the terms in the indenture,
and the court should not create a right that does not exist,”
the noteholders said in their joint filing.  The group, whose outstanding notes are worth a total of
about $250 million, argues Chesapeake seeks to “rewrite” the
redemption provisions of the indenture. The noteholders called
the requested injunction “drastic” and again cited a lack of
irreparable harm to Chesapeake.  “There is no business to save, no reputation to protect,
no unique contractual right to enforce,” the noteholders said
in the filing. “This case indisputably is about money and money
only. And, as such, there is no irreparable harm.”  Michael Kehs, a spokesman for Chesapeake, declined to
comment on Bank of New York Mellon’s filing.  Distinguish Difference  Bank of New York Mellon “fails to distinguish the
difference between a deadline for when notice must be given, and
when the redemption date -- the date on which payment is
actually made to noteholders -- occurs,” Chesapeake said in its
complaint. “This is not a typical contractual dispute where one
party’s misreading of an agreement can be remedied after the
fact.”  Chesapeake’s 2019 securities yielded 5.61 percent, or 552
basis points more than comparable-maturity Treasuries,
yesterday, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The 6.775
percent coupon on those bonds is 50 basis points higher than the
average weighted coupon on all the company’s outstanding debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York State  Supreme Court  in Manhattan
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 