-- BNY Mellon Criticized in $400 Million Chesapeake Fight
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-03-13T15:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/chesapeake-must-wait-two-days-for-400-million-answer.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  and a
group of noteholders were panned by a judge over their bid to
force  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  to pay $400 million in interest if
it loses a lawsuit to redeem $1.3 billion in notes early at par.  BNY Mellon, the trustee for the notes, and investors whose
holdings total about $250 million seek a court ruling that
Chesapeake missed a deadline to redeem the notes at 100 cents
and would be obliged to call the bonds at a higher “make
whole” price if it issues an early-redemption notice this week.  The bank and noteholders are essentially “holding a
sword” over Chesapeake in a way that could be viewed as
“trickery,” U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer said at a
hearing yesterday in  Manhattan .  If Engelmayer rules in favor of Chesapeake, the  second-
biggest  natural gas producer in the U.S. will tell bondholders
by the following day that it plans to redeem the 6.775 percent
notes at par six years before they mature. If the company loses,
it won’t issue the notice and won’t be at risk of paying the
$400 million in make-whole interest sought by investors. The
judge said he’ll issue a decision at 3 p.m. tomorrow.  Final Date  Chesapeake, which sued the bank last week, argued that
March 15 is the final date it can issue the formal notice of
early redemption and avoid the make-whole provision, even if the
call is completed after that date; BNY Mellon and the investor
group said the process would need to be completed by the
deadline, and thus it’s too late to issue the notice at par.  At yesterday’s hearing, both sides quoted from different
parts of the  bond issue ’s indenture paperwork to back their
interpretation of the deadline.  BNY Mellon (BK)  is supported in the case by the group of
noteholders, which includes  hedge funds . The judge formally
allowed them to intervene in the case at yesterday’s hearing.  The dispute over the meaning of the deadline could
theoretically be dealt with separately from a make-whole penalty
because Chesapeake made it clear it has no intention of
redeeming the notes unless it can do so at par, the judge said.  The notes, issued in February 2012 and due March 2019, were
pushed by traders to a record 105.9 cents on the dollar the day
the lawsuit was filed, a signal they may believe the  Oklahoma
City-based company  would have to pay a premium to call the debt.  No Intention  The intervening investors include Archer Capital Management
LP, Ares Management LLC, Aurelius Capital Management LP, Carlson
Capital LP, Cetus Capital LLC, Latigo Partners LLP, Monarch
Alternative Capital LP, P. Schoenfeld Asset Management LP, River
Birch Capital LLC and Taconic Capital Advisors LP.  Richard Ziegler, Chesapeake’s lawyer with Jenner & Block
LLP in  New York , said the dispute over the make-whole provision
should be moot since the company has no intention of issuing the
notice to noteholders if it fails to win a preliminary
injunction protecting it from such a penalty.  Ziegler said at yesterday’s hearing that the harm to
Chesapeake in the absence of such an injunction would be greater
than the harm to investors, who are accustomed to managing,
buying and selling notes based on a wide range of events that
are common in the marketplace.  The noteholders “will get an incredible windfall” from a
make-whole payment, which they don’t deserve, Ziegler said. The
noteholders “are chafing at the bit” for Chesapeake’s early
redemption notice to inadvertently “trigger a make-whole
payment,” he said.  Early Redemption  Chesapeake’s complaint quoted the indenture paperwork,
which states “the company shall be permitted to exercise its
option to redeem the notes” so long as it gives the notice of
redemption during “the special early redemption period” from
Nov. 15, 2012 to March 15.  The bank and the noteholders filed papers citing different
portions of the paperwork that say any early redemption after
March 15 will trigger a make-whole payment. They also said
Chesapeake, when drafting the paperwork, omitted language that
would have allowed the type of early redemption it now seeks.  The group of noteholders are entitled to the make-whole
provision because it’s included in the “plain language” of the
indemnity, said Steven Bierman, a lawyer for the investors. The
group shouldn’t be punished as a result of Chesapeake failing to
issue the early redemption notice on time, he said.  “Chesapeake is trying to shift the risk created by a
problem of its own making onto the marketplace and
noteholders,” Bierman said. While the company could have
avoided the problem by issuing the notice earlier, “they failed
to, or they forgot to -- whatever -- they didn’t do it.”  BNY Mellon  and the intervenors “desire to take advantage
of the ambiguity” in the contract, Engelmayer said. “That’s
why we’re here, isn’t it?”  Full Trial  The judge questioned the idea that investors would be
harmed by a ruling in Chesapeake’s favor, which would allow a
full trial over the meaning of the deadline and possibly allow
the early redemption by the middle of May.  “The last thing the trustee is trying to do is have a
windfall,” BNY Mellon’s lawyer, Paul Weinstein, said at the
hearing.  Weinstein rejected the judge’s suggestion that the
situation could leave the New York-based bank open to a
potential claim of gross negligence for allowing the dispute to
develop between Chesapeake and the intervenors.  BNY Mellon initially supported Chesapeake’s plan when the
energy company first discussed early redemption with the bank on
Feb. 20, according to the complaint. Two days later, the bank
changed its mind, Chesapeake said.  Both sides may seek to appeal the judge’s eventual order.  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  