-- China Stocks Fall for 4th Day on IPO Concerns; Financials Slide
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-12T08:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/china-s-stock-futures-rise-signaling-gains-for-benchmark-index.html
China’s stocks  fell for a fourth
day, the longest stretch of losses in three months, on
speculation regulators may resume initial public offerings.
Drugmakers, financial stocks and small-company shares dropped.  Kangmei Pharmaceutical Co. (600518)  tumbled 3.9 percent, sending a
gauge of health-care companies to its lowest level in three
weeks. China Life Insurance Co. slid 1.7 percent as shares
resumed trading after a suspension. Ping An Bank Co. paced
declines for lenders as the China Securities Journal said the
banking regulator may stop some banks from operating wealth
management businesses if they fail to improve their products.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 1 percent to 2,286.61 at
the close, the biggest loss since March 4. The CSI 300 Index
declined 1.4 percent to 2,555.61. The ChiNext index of start-ups
dropped 3.4 percent, the most since Nov. 27.  “The possibility IPO share sales will resume is spooking
the market,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at
Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “Small-caps
will bear the brunt if IPO suspensions are lifted as the
majority of the new listings come from small-sized companies.
That’ll drag down valuation of small-caps.”  Today’s losses pared the  Shanghai  Composite’s gain this
year to 0.8 percent. Data over the weekend showed industrial
output had the weakest start to a year since 2009 and lending
and retail sales growth slowed.  “The worry about the strength of the economic recovery
persists,” said Wu of Dazhong.  Smallcaps Drop  The Shanghai gauge is valued at 9.4 times earnings for the
next 12 months, compared with the five-year average of 13.5,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The value of shares
traded in Shanghai slumped to the lowest since Dec. 24
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 30-day
volatility was at 22.3 today, close to the lowest in a year.  Anhui Shengyun Machinery Co. (300090)  led a decline among ChiNext
companies. The stock tumbled by the 10 percent daily limit to
22.66 yuan. Gifore Agricultural Machinery Chain Co. retreated
9.6 percent to 7.69 yuan.  Companies seeking IPO sales are expected to submit reports
on self-examination of their financial statements starting next
week to meet the end-March deadline, the China Securities
Journal reported today, citing investment banks. The China
Securities Regulatory Commission suspended issuance of IPO
shares in late October after companies were found to report
falling profits right after listings.  The CSRC may restart the approval process of IPOs after
examining “self-inspection” reports from companies, the
 Securities Times  reported March 7, citing Vice Chairman Yao Gang.  Drug Stocks  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  lost 1.2 percent. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  fell 0.4 percent yesterday.  A measure of health-care stocks in the CSI 300 slid 2.6
percent, the biggest loss among the 10 industry groups. The sub-
index had advanced 19 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with a 2.8 percent gain on the CSI 300.  Kangmei Pharmaceutical tumbled 3.9 percent to 15.74  yuan ,
the lowest close since Feb. 4. Yunnan Baiyao Group Co., a
manufacturer of traditional Chinese medicines, declined 1.8
percent to 75.26 yuan.  China’s benchmark money-market rate rose for a second day
on speculation investors are raising funds to subscribe for a
bond sale by China Minsheng Banking Corp.  The nation’s first privately owned bank has approval from
the China Securities Regulatory Commission to sell 20 billion
yuan ($3.2 billion) of convertible bonds, according to a Feb. 8
statement to the stock exchange. The sale may lock up about 400
billion yuan of capital, according to Sealand Securities Co.  China Minsheng Banking slid 4.7 percent to 9.74 yuan. Ping
An Bank lost  4 percent to 21.72 yuan. Huaxia Bank Co., partly
owned by Deutsche Bank AG, fell 3.6 percent to 10.30 yuan.  China Life  The China Banking Regulatory Commission may stop some banks
from operating wealth management businesses if they fail to
improve products by the end of April, the China Securities
Journal reported today, citing unidentified people.  China Life, the nation’s biggest insurer, slid 1.7 percent
to 17.58 yuan. Chairman Yang Mingsheng’s comments that profit
will “surely” improve in 2013 referred to the company’s
parent, China Life said in a statement yesterday.  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  was named
yesterday a vice chairman of the  Chinese People’s Political
Consultative Conference , the nation’s top government advisory
body, raising speculation his record tenure as central bank
chief will be extended.  The Communist Party plans to keep Zhou, 65, as head of the
central bank, with the CPPCC vice chairman position allowing him
to serve beyond  retirement age , a person with direct knowledge
of the discussions told  Bloomberg News  last month. The national
legislature, which is also holding its annual meeting, will
decide March 16 on positions including PBOC governor.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  