-- China Cosco Drops on Logistics-Unit Sale Plan: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-03-12T06:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/china-cosco-drops-on-logistics-unit-sale-plan-hong-kong-mover.html
China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) , the
nation’s biggest shipping company, slumped the most in about 10
months in Hong Kong trading after unveiling a plan to sell its
logistics unit to help return to profitability.  The company dropped as much as 6.3 percent to HK$4.04,
headed for the biggest decline since May 14. The shares fell 5.3
percent to HK$4.08 as of 2:10 p.m. in Hong Kong, while the
city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index  lost 0.4 percent.  China  Cosco proposed to sell all its stake in closely held
Cosco Logistics (Group) Co. to its state-backed parent, the
company said in a filing yesterday, without disclosing financial
details. The shipping company will use gains from the sale to
boost operating results in 2013 and reduce the risk of its stock
being suspended from trading on the A-share market, the Tianjin,
China-based operator said in a separate statement.  “Selling a profitable unit for the sake of a one-off gain
is viewed negatively by investors from a long-term
perspective,” said Kelvin Lau, a Hong Kong-based transport
analyst at Daiwa Securities Group Inc., who rates the shares
buy. “It would be better if the company could manage to sell
the loss-making dry-bulk assets instead.”  Cosco’s logistics unit made an operating profit of 388
million  yuan  ($64 million) in the first six months of 2012,
compared with a 1.3 billion-yuan operating loss from its
container shipping unit and a loss of 3.4 billion yuan from the
dry-bulk fleet, according to a company statement.  China Cosco, headed by Chairman Wei Jiafu, is facing
trading restrictions on its shares in China this year after
saying it expects to post a substantial loss in 2012.  ‘Special Treatment’  The company may get a “special treatment” designation
that cuts the daily trading limit to 5 percent from 10 percent,
according to listing rules by the  Shanghai Stock Exchange .
Companies that post annual losses for two consecutive years get
that designation and may face a trading suspension if losses are
recorded for a third year.  China Cosco, which has yet to report 2012 results, probably
had a net loss of  7.1 billion yuan  last year, based on the
average of eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The shipper is
contending with higher fuel costs and slumping freight rates
because of worldwide overcapacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  