-- China’s Cirrus Plane Deal Boosts Ten Cate Airliner Prospects
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-12T09:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/china-s-cirrus-plane-deal-elevates-ten-cate-airliner-prospects.html
Koninklijke Ten Cate NV (KTC) , the Dutch
maker of airframe parts for the Pentagon’s Reaper combat drone,
said  China  is becoming a market for its advanced composite
aircraft parts more quickly than it predicted.  Prospects for the Asian country got a boost when Zhuhai-
based China Aviation Industry General Aircraft Co. acquired
light-aircraft maker Cirrus Industries Inc. two years ago, said
Frank Spaan, business development director  at Almelo-based Ten
Cate, which makes parts for the single-engine plane. Shares of
Ten Cate rose the most in four months.  “The purchase of this company by Chinese owners opened
that market,” Spaan said in a phone interview.  Ten Cate, which provides composite parts for the  Airbus SAS (EAD) 
A350 long-range airliner and materials for  body armor , is trying
to expand aerospace and automotive units at a time when U.S.
spending on military clothing is waning. Ten Cate is building
test structures for  Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China Ltd. ,
developer of the C919 airliner, to secure a long-term contract.  “We would expect later in the year to have our first real
sales in China,” Spaan said. “That is more quickly than we
ever would have expected.”  Ten Cate shares rose as much as 3 percent, the most since
Nov. 6, and traded at 18.35 euros as of 10:36 a.m. in Amsterdam
trading, valuing the company at 486.2 million euros ($632
million).  Business relations initially will involve exporting
materials from either the U.S. or  Europe  to China, he said. The
company also operates in China through its relationship with
Fokker Technologies, the Dutch company acquired in 2008 by a
private equity group led by  Candover Investments Plc. (CDI)   Flexible Pipes  Ten Cate has made several acquisitions to strengthen its
composite capabilities. European production was focused on
thermoplastics although the purchase of Nottingham, England-
based Amber Composites Ltd. this year is bolstering its
thermoset material capabilities to complement those in the U.S.
The Dutch company competes with  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  as well as  Cytec
Industries Inc. (CYT)   Industrial markets are drawing more interest, with Spaan
expecting to book the first sales of flexible composite pipes
for the energy sector this year.  “The oil and gas industry is of growing importance for our
company, as well as mining,” he said.  Defense remains a potential growth area even faced with the
U.S. military cuts linked to the withdrawal of front-line troops
from  Afghanistan , Spaan said. Sales of clothing to provide fire-
protection of non-combatant troops and sales to other
militaries, such as British and Australian forces, will also
help offset the U.S. slowdown.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  