-- China Leaders Seen Deepening Interest-Rate Flexibility: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-13T04:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/china-s-new-leaders-seen-deepening-interest-rate-flexibility.html
China ’s new leaders may further
loosen  interest-rate  controls this year while allowing limited
changes to one-child and household-registration policies that
threaten to restrain growth, a survey of analysts shows.  Twelve of 16 analysts expect China to relax or remove the
cap on  deposit rates  or the floor on lending rates, according to
a Bloomberg News survey conducted ahead of Xi Jinping’s
appointment as president tomorrow. A majority sees at least
minor changes to the birth and registration policies.  Reduced restrictions on banks competing for deposits may
boost returns to China’s savers, aiding efforts to switch the
economy’s engine of growth to  consumer spending  from exports and
investment. Xi and incoming Premier  Li Keqiang  may be more
cautious on changes to the one-child policy and the so-called
hukou system, which denies education and social welfare benefits
to millions of migrant workers in cities.  “Financial-market reforms should continue because there
aren’t so many political or technical stumbling blocks,” said
 Louis Kuijs , chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
in  Hong Kong  and a former World Bank researcher. Hukou changes
are “more complicated” and the one-child policy is so
entrenched in Communist Party thinking that “it’s not so easy”
to leave behind, he said.  China’s leaders, set to complete a once-a-decade handover
of power at the meeting of the National People’s Congress in
Beijing that ends March 17, are trying to support a rebound in
growth from a 13-year-low without spurring excessive  inflation 
or risks in the financial system.  Flexible Rates  Any move on interest-rate flexibility would build on
changes last year. The People’s Bank of China allowed banks to
offer a discount of as much as 30 percent on the key lending
rate, up from a previous 10 percent. For the first time, the
central bank permitted deposit rates of as much as 10 percent
higher than the benchmark.  Twelve analysts expect a raising or removal of deposit-rate
limits and 10 project a lowering or removal of the lending-rate
floor, according to the survey conducted from Feb. 28 to March
5. Five said the PBOC is likely to make a market-based interest
rate, such as a  repurchase rate , into a new benchmark rate. The
one-year lending rate has been 6 percent since July, while the
one-year deposit rate has stood at 3 percent.  The  yuan  has strengthened about 0.3 percent against the
dollar so far this year after a 1 percent rise in 2012. The
currency traded at 6.2145 per dollar as of 12:42 p.m. in
 Shanghai  today.  Stocks Fall  The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.2 percent to
2,260.19 at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break, extending a four-
day, 2.6 percent slump and erasing its gain for the year.
Investors are concerned that efforts to cool the  property market 
will undermine the nation’s recovery.  Yao Wei, China economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong
Kong, said that “interest-rate liberalization is the
cornerstone of financial-market liberalization -- if you don’t
have market-determined prices it’s hard to develop anything
else.” She predicts a removal of the lending-rate floor and a
higher deposit-rate cap.  More-flexible  interest rates  may improve the flow of
capital to small and mid-sized companies, private firms and
those in services, Kuijs said.  Reforms may be less sweeping for the policy that has
restricted most Chinese families to one child since the late
1970s on the theory that rapid  population growth  would constrain
resources. The policy has left the new leaders having to contend
with an aging population and a declining workforce.  Zhejiang, Shanghai  Eight of 16 survey respondents see minor changes such as
adding categories of citizens who can have more than one child,
or regional adjustments. Three expect major changes such as
letting everyone have two children.  Some loosening may be in progress. Seven provinces and
cities including Zhejiang and Shanghai are letting couples in
both rural and urban areas have a second child if either parent
is an only child, according to a report yesterday by the Renmin
Zhengxie Bao, a newspaper published by the National Committee of
the  Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference , citing
Yang Yuxue, an official at the National Population and Family
Planning Commission.  The survey preceded the government’s revamping of several
agencies, including combining family planning, which was
responsible for administering the one-child policy, with the
health ministry. Lu Ting, chief  Greater China  economist at Bank
of America Corp., said the shift makes a change to the policy
more likely.  No Breakthrough  Thirteen of 16 analysts expect minor hukou-system changes,
such as increasing quotas for changing to urban registration.
The policy prevents migrant workers from using services such as
enrolling children in schools in the area where they work.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s final annual report last week to the
legislature “doesn’t really suggest a breakthrough in the one-
child policy and hukou system,” even as there’s increased
recognition of the birth policy’s negative effects, Kuijs said.  Wen’s address didn’t discuss specific changes to the one-
child policy, saying China “should adhere to the basic state
policy on family planning.” He said China should “accelerate
reform of the household registration system.”  Hukou changes are more complex in part because local
governments would have to increase spending and have access to
bigger revenue streams, Kuijs said.  Sun Xianzhong, a Shanghai delegate to the legislature and
researcher at the law institute of the  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences , said in an interview that reform of the hukou system
needs to be “pushed forward with great efforts.”  In other major economies today, releases will include U.S.
mortgage applications and retail sales, euro-area industrial
production and French inflation.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  