-- Coal India Sets Aside $6.5 Billion to Buy Overseas Mine Assets
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-03-12T12:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/coal-india-sets-aside-6-5-billion-to-buy-overseas-mine-assets.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s
biggest producer of the fuel, has set aside 350 billion rupees
($6.5 billion) to buy and develop mines overseas over the next
five years to bolster domestic supplies.  The state-owned company plans to spend 100 billion rupees
on exploration and building logistics infrastructure in
Mozambique, junior coal minister Pratik Prakashbapu Patil said
in a written reply today to parliament questions. Coal  India  has
prospecting rights for two blocks in Mozambique’s Tete province.
It will spend 250 billion rupees to buy assets in countries
including the U.S.,  South Africa ,  Indonesia ,  Australia  and
Colombia, the minister said.  “There are more coal mines available for buyouts as
thermal coal prices have crashed partly because of the weak
economic scenario and partly due to new energy sources in the
form of shale gas,” Sushil Maroo, chief financial officer at
 Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP) , India’s largest steel producer by
value, said in an interview last week.  Coal India, which fires more than half of India’s power
generation capacity, faces government pressure to ensure
uninterrupted supplies to utilities and reduce blackouts that
crimp economic growth. The Kolkata-based company’s attempts to
raise output at home have been stymied by delays in land
purchases, slow environment approvals and frequent labor unrest.  Coal India  shares  have fallen 5.4 percent in the past year
in Mumbai, compared with an 11 percent increase in the benchmark
S&P BSE Sensex. The stock fell 0.4 percent to 319.15 rupees at
the close in Mumbai today.  Failed Attempts  The company’s efforts to purchase stakes in assets of St.
Louis-based  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and Indonesia’s PT Dian
Swastatika Sentosa were foiled by government delays. A 30
percent stake in Swastatika Sentosa unit Golden Energy Mines,
which Coal India pursued for more than a year, was eventually
bought by Bangalore-based  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI)   Still, the company is pushing ahead with its plans for
overseas acquisitions. It asked investment banks, mine owners
willing to sell stakes or their representatives to place initial
offers in an advertisement in India’s Mint newspaper on Feb. 27,
without giving price or timing details. The company is examining
seven stake sale proposals from Indonesia and Australia, two
people familiar with the matter said on Feb. 10.  Coal India, which started exploration in its  Mozambique 
blocks, has called bids for additional drilling in the area,
according to a document on its website. The company plans to
award the contract by March, two people familiar with the plan
said last month. Talks are on with the South African government
for a similar venture in the country’s Limpopo province, they
had said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  