-- CommonWealth REIT Sells Former Unit Stake to Pay Debt
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-03-12T21:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/commonwealth-reit-sells-former-unit-stake-to-pay-debt.html
CommonWealth REIT (CWH) , the property
owner criticized by its largest shareholders for its corporate
governance, will use proceeds from the sale of its  Government
Properties Income Trust (GOV)  stake to pay debt, a spokesman said.  CommonWealth sold 9.95 million shares of its former unit
for $25.20 each in an underwritten offering, Government
Properties, a landlord to government tenants, said yesterday in
a statement. CommonWealth, which had proceeds totaling $240
million, considered holding the stake to be outside of its main
focus, Tim Bonang, vice president of  investor relations  for both
companies, said in a telephone interview today.  “It’s an asset that’s not core to the business in the same
way that suburban office isn’t core to the business plan,”
Bonang said. CommonWealth, a real estate investment trust based
in Newton,  Massachusetts , primarily owns office buildings in or
near major metropolitan markets.  CommonWealth last week sold 34.5 million of its own shares
to pay debt in an offering that was challenged by Corvex
Management LP and Related Cos. because of its dilution to
shareholders. Keith Meister’s Corvex and Related, led by Chief
Executive Officer Jeff Blau, project that CommonWealth’s real
estate assets are worth about $40 a share, according to a Feb.
26 letter to the board. The “misalignment of incentives”
between the REIT and its external management has driven down the
value of the stock, the New York-based investors said.  Waiting Out  Bonang declined to comment on the claims of the investors,
citing litigation. While Corvex and Related have said they may
seek to replace CommonWealth’s five-member  board , that hasn’t
occurred yet and “we’ll take a wait and see approach,” he
said.  Joanna Rose , a spokeswoman for the investors, didn’t return
a call seeking comment on the share sale.  CommonWealth listed $4.3 billion in total  debt  at the end
of the fourth quarter, according to a regulatory filing. It has
$265 million in debt due in 2014, $758 million in 2015 and $1.3
billion in 2016, according to the report.  The company is trying to maintain its investment-grade
 credit rating , and its equity offering to reduce debt was tied
to that effort,  Rich Moore , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Solon,  Ohio , wrote in a March 4 report.  CommonWealth in the past five years has focused on buying
downtown office properties in secondary markets in the U.S. and
selling suburban office properties, President Adam Portnoy said
on a Feb. 25 conference call with analysts. The company also
owns industrial properties and real estate in  Australia .  Share Decline  CommonWealth has identified 275 properties out of 440 for
disposition over the next few years, and as of last month it
sold 18 of them, according to Moore’s report.  CommonWealth fell 1.8 percent to $21.75 today. Government
Properties, also based in Newton, dropped 6 percent to $24.92.  Government Properties was formed by CommonWealth as a
subsidiary in 2009 and sold shares to the public that same year,
according to a regulatory filing yesterday. Reit Management &
Research LLC, based in Newton, manages both companies. RMR
receives fees from the companies it runs and its owners, Barry Portnoy and his son Adam, serve on the boards of both companies.  The CommonWealth share sale is positive for Government
Properties because some analysts said the CommonWealth ownership
was an overhang on the stock, according to Bonang. Over the
“long term” it will be viewed as a positive, he said.  “The sale eliminates that overhang,” Bonang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  