-- Couple Bare All in Bathroom, Brutal Beckett: London Stage
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-03-12T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/couple-bare-all-in-bathroom-brutal-beckett-london-stage.html
Marian and David are sharing their
lives, their thoughts, a bottle of wine and a bath.  They strip and jump into the steamy water, where they
laugh, squabble and fight.  They’re the protagonists in “Mydidae,” a new play by Bafta-
award winning writer Jack Thorne.  He was commissioned by the  DryWrite  theater company to
write a piece set in the most private of rooms.  Nudity is central to the plot. In the tiny Trafalgar
Studios 2, the actors are a couple of feet away from the
audience. Even so, souls are bared more than bodies in this
spiky vignette about relationships.  Vicky Jones’s clever direction means that the audience is
more engrossed in the developing tension. Meanwhile, Phoebe
Waller-Bridge and Keir Charles disrobe, with careful use of
towels, bubble bath and lighting to keep it tasteful.  At first, it seems like their story is common to many
couples. Then it becomes clear there’s something more disturbing
going on: It’s the anniversary of a personal tragedy.  David is feeling pressured at work; Marian is feeling
pressured by him.  She’s bright and clever, with a range of knowing looks that
suggest that we have only begun to understand her complexities.  David is a simpler being of fewer words, which he sometimes
struggles to find until his frustration explodes into anger.  Later, they make their peace, which means much of the drama
has fizzled out before the 70 minutes is up. Rating: ***.  Beckett’s ‘Watt’  The most undressing Barry McGovern does in his show at the
Barbican’s Pit is to take off his jacket, which he promptly puts
back on. Then he does it again, and again, finally adding a hat
and coat, all the time murmuring poetry by  Samuel Beckett  like a
spell.  “Not a word, not a deed,” he says, “not a thought, not a
need, not a grief, not a joy, not a girl, not a boy.”  Originally for the Gate Theatre, Dublin, McGovern has woven
words from the Nobel prize winner’s novel “Watt” into a 50-
minute monologue. The book’s got a reputation almost as fearsome
as  James Joyce ’s “Finnegans Wake.” Here, in this small dark
venue, it’s so hypnotic that it could go on for much longer.  McGovern, looking like a forlorn waiter, performs a
disjointed ballet dance before talking of life’s brutality and
beauty.  Watt (or is it “What”) works for Mr. Knott (or is it
“Not”). He lingers over the Irish puns before he can finally
take no more and wanders off to the station to escape.  He asks for a ticket to the end of the line. Asked which
end, he thinks and deadpans, “the further end.” It’s a remark
worthy of “Waiting for Godot.” Rating: ****.  “Mydidae” is at Trafalgar Studios 2, 14 Whitehall,
 London , SW1A 2DY through March 30. Information: +44-844-871-7627
or  http://www.atgtickets.com/shows/mydidae/trafalgar-studios/ .  “Watt” is at the Pit, Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London
EC2Y 8BS, until March 16. Information: +44-7638-8891,
 http://www.barbican.org.uk/theatre/event-detail.asp?ID=14065   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts and
 Richard Vines  on food.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 