-- Credit Suisse’s Credit Products Co-Head DeSantis to Leave
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-03-12T13:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/credit-suisse-co-head-of-credit-products-desantis-to-leave-bank.html
Phil DeSantis, co-head of global
credit products at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , is leaving the firm
after 13 years and will be replaced by  David Miller , according
to two internal memos.  Miller, who has been head of global leveraged-finance
capital markets since 2011, will become co-head of the unit with
Eraj Shirvani, according to one of the memos. The contents of
both memos were confirmed by Jack Grone, a spokesman for the
firm in New York. They were signed by Gael de Boissard, co-head
of the Zurich-based company’s investment bank.  DeSantis, 47, and Miller both joined Credit Suisse, the
second-biggest Swiss bank by assets, when it acquired Donaldson
Lufkin & Jenrette Inc. in 2000. The bank has been adapting its
fixed-income trading business to comply with new requirements
under the Basel III capital rules.  “A dedicated and accomplished leader at the bank, Phil
oversaw the transition of credit to conform to stricter
regulatory requirements under Basel III,” De Boissard wrote in
the memo about DeSantis’s resignation.  Before joining DLJ, where he was a managing director in the
leveraged-finance group, DeSantis worked as a credit trader at
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and managed fixed-income
portfolios at Kemper Financial Services, according to the memo.  Credit Suisse’s  revenue  from fixed-income sales and trading
jumped 60 percent to 5.35 billion Swiss francs ($5.67 billion)
in 2012. Revenue from debt trading and underwriting accounted
for about 55 percent of the total at Credit Suisse’s
investment bank last year, according to results on the firm’s
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 