-- Cyber Attackers’ Tactics Outpace Companies’ Responses
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-03-12T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/cyber-attackers-tactics-outpace-companies-responses.html
The tactics of hackers, cyber-
criminals and state-sponsored spies are evolving so quickly that
attackers often can re-enter a company’s networks after being
detected and banned, according to a U.S. computer security firm.  Aerospace and defense companies were targets in 17 percent
of sophisticated computer attacks during 2012, the most of any
industry, according to a report released today by Mandiant Corp.
of Alexandria, Virginia. Energy, oil and gas companies were
next, with 14 percent of incidents, followed by the financial
industry, with 11 percent.  Most corporate victims -- 63 percent -- didn’t detect
intrusions themselves and were notified by security consultants,
business partners or other outside entities, Mandiant said.  “Advanced attackers continue to routinely compromise
organizations -- even those that have made large and sustained
investments in security,” the report says. “The way you
respond -- when the inevitable happens -- is what will determine
whether you become a headline or not.”  U.S. officials and companies operating vital  computer
networks  have said the nation’s banks, power grids and
telecommunications systems are under constant cyber-attack.
President  Barack Obama  issued an executive order in February
intended to improve coordination among government agencies and
companies in defending critical infrastructure.  Notified by Outsiders  The Mandiant report lists four primary tactics attackers
use: subverting information-technology contractors; extensive
reconnaissance of networks; persistent pursuit of targets; and
installing malicious software on websites visited by employees.  Mandiant didn’t identify groups behind attacks or companies
targeted. The computer-security firm said in a report last month
that the Chinese army is probably the source of hacking attacks
against at least 141 companies worldwide since 2006.  The average cost of responding to cyber-attacks probably
exceeds $10 million for companies with more than 1,000
employees, said Lawrence Ponemon, chairman of Ponemon Institute
LLC, a security-research firm in Traverse City,  Michigan .  “The precision of attacks has significantly improved,”
Ponemon said in an interview. “The attacker is doing different
things over and over again until they get in.”  Companies need to be aware of what kind of security their
vendors have, as attackers often find it easier to hack into the
computers of a contractor, Ponemon said.  ‘Growing Threat’  “The issue of vendor security is becoming very, very
important,” he said. “Companies haven’t considered that a big
threat, but it is definitely a growing threat to large
organizations.”  In one case cited by Mandiant, hackers got into the
computers of an unnamed company by compromising the networks of
a defense contractor hired for IT services. After the defense
contractor learned of the problem and fixed it, the hackers
installed malware on websites visited by employees of the
targeted company, which allowed the criminals back into the
company computers.  Companies can create “a hostile environment” for
attackers by giving them deceptive information and by sharing
attack information in real-time about incidents if industry
sectors are being targeted, Dmitri Alperovitch, co-founder and
chief technology officer of  Palo Alto , California-based security
firm CrowdStrike Inc., said in an interview.  “We’ve been trying a defense-only approach for close to 30
years and clearly it has not worked,” Alperovitch said. “We
believe that the right strategy is to find ways to raise both
the costs and risks to the adversary.”  Hostile Environment  Companies are getting better at detecting and fighting
cyber intrusions, according to the Mandiant report.  For example, 37 percent of organizations Mandiant helped
discovered attacks themselves, versus 6 percent in 2011, the
company said.  Companies also reduced the time an attacker was present on
a network to 243 days, from 416 days in 2011, according to the
report.  “We note, however, that this downward shift in the median
was accompanied by a higher mean days of compromise,” Mandiant
wrote. “In other words, more organizations are doing a better
job of proactively identifying problems, but there are still
outliers who are compromised for several years before they
detect they are compromised.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  