-- DBS Hong Kong Lending to Grow 10% as Yuan Business Thrives
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-03-12T02:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/dbs-hong-kong-lending-to-grow-10-as-yuan-business-thrives-1-.html
  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , Southeast
Asia’s largest bank, plans to expand its Hong Kong loan book by
about 10 percent this year as trade with mainland  China  drives
demand for renminbi-currency services.  DBS’s 2012  yuan  trade settlement surged 60 percent from a
year earlier, said Sebastian Paredes, the Singapore-based bank’s
chief executive officer for the Chinese city. He predicts
business using the renminbi, as China’s currency is known, will
grow beyond the 17 percent of total revenue that it reached last
year.  Lenders in Hong Kong handled about 90 percent of China’s
yuan-denominated trade payments last year, while sales of so-
called Dim Sum bonds climbed to 174 billion yuan ($28 billion),
a 15 percent jump from a year earlier, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Premier Wen Jiabao last week pledged to expand
global use of the currency as the nation seeks to cut reliance
on the dollar.  “What we clearly want is to continue the RMB products, the
RMB services and the RMB capabilities to be in the forefront of
the banking sector,” Paredes said in an interview March 8.
“You would expect a continuation of rapid growth in the
utilization of the RMB not only in trade, but in FX, in money
markets, in debt.”  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11) , the second-largest Hong Kong-based
lender by assets, said last week that loan growth may be stable
this year as the city imposes mortgage restrictions to cool
housing prices. The unit of HSBC Holdings Plc posted an 11
percent increase in lending last year.  DBS rose  1.1 percent to S$15.62 at 10:18 a.m. in  Singapore ,
the highest level since September 2008, bringing its gain for
the year to 5.3 percent.  Yuan Lending  The Qianhai district of Shenzhen, a city that borders Hong
Kong, was picked as the testing ground for cross-border yuan
loans, in which 15 banks based in Hong Kong provided about 2
billion yuan to companies in January.  While DBS wasn’t among the first batch of lenders, cross-
border lending in Qianhai is “one of our key priorities,” said
Paredes. “We are discussing with several customers the
opportunities to finance.”  The bank is also keen to participate in the  Renminbi 
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor program, Paredes said.
The so-called RQFII allows yuan raised offshore to be invested
in China’s domestic capital markets. China last week expanded it
to include institutions registered in Hong Kong.  Net income  at the Hong Kong unit of DBS, the largest profit
contributor outside Singapore, grew 25 percent last year to
S$716 million ($574 million), while net interest income, the
difference between what it makes from lending and what it pays
on deposits, rose 12 percent.  Hiring Plans  DBS will add staff at its corporate banking unit, along
with debt capital markets employees as companies turn to bonds
and other debt obligations from loans, Paredes said. This year’s
increase will be less than 5 percent, he said.  After increasing its staff by 16 percent in 2009-2012, DBS
has more than 4,000 employees in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  