-- Detroit Council Argues Against Naming State Fiscal Overseer
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-03-12T16:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/detroit-council-urges-state-to-back-off-naming-fiscal-overseer.html
Detroit  doesn’t need an emergency
manager to put its finances in order because it’s doing so on
its own, City Council leaders said in an attempt to head off a
state takeover.  Irvin Corley, a council fiscal analyst, said in a hearing
in Lansing today that while Detroit is in crisis, “We feel
there is a satisfactory plan to address the city’s emergency.”
That strategy is inadequate and too slow to solve growing
deficits, countered Fred Headen, a state treasury legal adviser.  Michigan  Governor  Rick Snyder  declared a crisis March 1
after a fiscal review, paving the way to appoint an emergency
financial manager. The  Detroit Free Press  reported that Kevyn Orr, a Washington lawyer for the Jones Day firm, is Snyder’s
leading choice for the job.  Mary MacDowell, a chief deputy state treasurer presiding
over the city’s appeal hearing, can recommend to Snyder, a 54-
year-old Republican, that he reconsider his emergency
declaration or continue with the plan to install a manager.  During the hour-long hearing, council representatives
argued that an April agreement to fix municipal finances hasn’t
had time to pay off. They said a second state review begun in
December exaggerated the city’s long-term liabilities by lumping
general-obligation debt with water-department revenue bonds
supported by a reliable stream of money.  “Our position is stay the course, continue the current
consent agreement,” said David Whitaker, an attorney for the
council.  Helping Hand  City Council president Charles Pugh, who attended the
hearing, said afterward that the council presented a
“compelling” case. He said rather than an emergency manager,
the city needs help from the state collecting unpaid taxes and
getting rid of abandoned homes.  A handout from the city today says it has reduced its
workforce to 11,396 in 2012 from 20,799 in 2003, a 45 percent
cut. As of Jan. 31, the actual head count was 9,696, according
to the document. Cuts this year saved $50 million, it said.  Mayor David Bing didn’t join the city council in contesting
the state review.  That Feb. 19 report concluded that the city had no adequate
plan to close deficits that reached almost $327 million in 2012
and to meet long-term obligations of more than $14 billion.  If Snyder sticks with his call for an overseer with broad
powers to run Michigan’s largest city -- including dismissing
workers and abrogating union contracts -- the council can take
its case to the courts.  No Enthusiasm  Detroit, home of  General Motors Co. (GM) , would become the sixth
Michigan city under a state-appointed manager. Detroit’s school
system is already run by an overseer.  The city’s April consent agreement with the state aimed to
cut costs while making changes to enhance safety, improve bus
service and restore lighting to darkened neighborhoods.  Headen, who was a member of the review team, testified
today that the city showed a lack of enthusiasm for the April
agreement, and a second deal is not an option.  “We took issue with the city officials to abide by its
terms,”  he said.  Troubled Cities  Like the Motor City, communities from  California  to  Rhode
Island  have coped with deficits, climbing pension and debt costs
and falling property values while revenue continues to show the
effects of the recession that ended in June 2009.  Opponents of Michigan’s emergency-manager law say
appointees usurp elected officials. Critics also fault the law
as protecting bondholders at the expense of citizens and
workers.  Supporters say it restores stability without the costs and
collateral damage of  bankruptcy protection . Treasurer Andy Dillon said an emergency manager is preferable to bankruptcy
because the state and city retain more control over the outcome.  A three-member panel called the emergency loan board -- all
appointees of the governor -- would select an emergency manager.
Under a law that takes effect March 28, the council could remove
the overseer after 18 months, with a two-thirds vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, Michigan, at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 