-- Deutsche Bank Tax Manager Said to Be CO2 Probe Suspect
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-03-12T17:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/deutsche-bank-top-tax-manager-said-to-be-suspect-in-co2-probe.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s head of tax for
continental  Europe  is among the suspects in Frankfurt
prosecutors’ investigation of carbon-emission certificate
trades, two people familiar with the matter said.  The executive and a tax-compliance manager are being probed
in the case over evading value-added tax, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the suspects haven’t been
disclosed publicly. German financial regulator Bafin is also
looking into the matter, it said.  Investigators in December raided Deutsche Bank’s Frankfurt
headquarters, arresting five employees. Prosecutors are also
probing co-Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Fitschen  and Chief
Financial Officer  Stefan Krause , who signed tax returns related
to value-added tax on the certificates.  Deutsche Bank spokesman  Ronald Weichert  said the bank was
cooperating with prosecutors and declined to comment on the
identity of any suspects. An e-mail and call to the tax
executive weren’t immediately returned.  Prosecutors are investigating whether the handling of the
certificates led to tax evasion. They have extended the case to
also look into whether, in the course of the investigation, some
people at the bank obstructed justice or violated money-
laundering rules.  The lender, its executives and employees have denied the
allegations. The five arrested employees were released within a
week. Prosecutors are investigating about 190 suspects in the
case, among them 25 are at Deutsche Bank.  Bafin Review  Bafin asked Frankfurt prosecutors to give them access to
their case files, according to one of the people. While
prosecutors denied the request, the regulator asked the bank for
information updates on any developments, the person said.  Under German banking laws, prosecutors can refuse Bafin
access to protect suspects’ privacy, especially if the findings
aren’t verified.  A request for information is the first step the regulator
takes when an issue needs closer scrutiny. If Bafin finds more
review is warranted, it can order a special probe, such as the
financial regulator’s current investigation into the Deutsche
Bank’s involvement with the rigging of benchmark  interest rates .  Bafin spokesman Sven Gebauer declined to comment as did
Guenter Wittig, a spokesman for Frankfurt prosecutors.  Deutsche Bank shares fell less than 1 percent to 34.16
euros in Frankfurt trading today.  Emissions Allowance  Prosecutors started a probe in 2009 into what they claim is
a value-added  tax evasion  scheme exploiting the European carbon-
emission certificate trading system. Seven Deutsche Bank
employees working in emissions-allowance trading were named as
suspects and the bank was searched in April 2010.  Six managers at small emissions-trading companies were
convicted in the first trial related to the probe in December
2011 and received sentences  of more than seven years in jail.
Deutsche Bank, which bought the securities from the companies,
should have known the trades were illegal, the court said.  The tax executive now under investigation testified in that
case, saying the bank was discussing the certificate business
with German tax authorities in December 2009 and January 2010
and received no indication the bank’s trades were tied to fraud.  After the 2010 raid, Deutsche Bank conducted its own probe
and said it would cooperate with the authorities. Prosecutors
later complained the bank didn’t make all its findings
available, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Deutsche Bank didn’t hand over the London part of its
review because under U.K. law the findings are protected by
attorney-client privilege, the people said.  The lender said in December that Fitschen and Krause are
under investigation because they signed value-added tax
statements for 2009 that prosecutors claim were wrong. The
document was voluntarily corrected in a way that rules out any
violations, the bank said. Prosecutors say the correction came
too late, the lender said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  