-- Dreyfus, Proust and the Crimes of the Belle Epoque
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   W e b e r
-- 2013-03-12T22:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/dreyfus-proust-and-the-crimes-of-the-belle-epoque.html
This year represents a watershed in
the history of  France ’s Belle Epoque -- the period of
unprecedented economic growth and extraordinary cultural foment
that nation enjoyed between the centennial of the French
Revolution in 1889 (an occasion commemorated by, among other
things, the inauguration of the Eiffel Tower) and the outbreak
of World War I in 1914 -- for two seemingly unrelated reasons.  First, it marks the 100th anniversary of the publication of
“Swann’s Way,” the first installment of “In Search of Lost
Time” (1913-1927), Marcel Proust’s vast novel chronicling the
lives of privileged Parisians at the fin de siecle.  Second, the French Ministry of Defense has for the first
time made public the entire contents of the infamous secret
dossier that the French army used against Captain Alfred
Dreyfus, a Jewish artilleryman, in a bogus treason case it
brought against him in December 1894, sentencing him to life
imprisonment on Devil’s Island in French Guiana. (The posting is
the work of Pierre Gervais, Pauline Peretz and Pierre Stutin,
historians who have a new book about the file, “Le Dossier
Secret de l’Affaire Dreyfus.”)  This case sparked a shattering national scandal known as
the Dreyfus Affair, in which conservatives vehemently affirmed
the guilt of “the Jewish traitor” even when faced with
evidence, galvanizing to a whole generation of liberal
politicians and intellectuals (including Proust), that the
military had framed Dreyfus for crimes committed by Major
Ferdinand Esterhazy, a non-Jewish officer with no connection
whatsoever to the disgraced captain.  Disturbing Links  So what do a literary masterpiece and a long-sealed
military file -- to which Dreyfus and his legal team were denied
access, even after his exoneration in 1906, and which is now
exhaustively digitized and posted  online  -- have in common?  More, it turns out, than just a shared historical context,
a parallel re-emergence in the spotlight and a similarly
overwhelming page count. (“In Search of Lost Time” has seven
volumes, each of which contains two or more novel-length
subsections; the secret dossier encompasses about 1,000 pieces
of evidence, many of them forgeries, that the French military
drew on to incriminate Dreyfus throughout his 12-year legal
ordeal.) Both compendiums expose disturbing if powerful links,
in the cultural imagination of the Belle Epoque, among
Jewishness, homosexuality and covert criminality.  In the Dreyfus Affair, the tie between presumed espionage
and anti-Semitic prejudice is, of course, well known, and has
been ever since January 1895, when Dreyfus, having just been
found guilty of leaking military information to the Germans, was
publicly stripped of his captain’s insignia to the rabid screams
of a crowd that demanded “Death to the Jew!”  Unbeknownst to the condemned man and his lawyers, as well
as to the public, the secret dossier in his case included a
series of intimate letters between two foreign spies in Paris:
Colonel Maximilian von Schwartzkoppen, the German military
attache to whom Esterhazy, not Dreyfus, had sold French military
secrets, and Lieutenant Colonel Alessandro Panizzardi, an
Italian military attache who was sexually involved with
Schwartzkoppen in the mid-1890s.  Although neither Schwartzkoppen nor Panizzardi had anything
to do with Dreyfus, the two men’s correspondence -- with slangy
allusions to sodomy and with feminized versions of their first
names (“Maximilienne” and “Alexandrine”) -- revealed an
irrefutable liaison between them, and thus lent an air of
veracity to other documents which Dreyfus’s persecutors forged
to lend retroactive credibility to his conviction as a spy.  Letters Suppressed  Some of these fake documents even referenced the
foreigners’ affair directly, chief among them the faux Henry --a
forgery later named for the major who commissioned it -- in
which “Alexandrine” informs his lover that if “Dreyfus is
brought in for questioning,” they must both  claim  that they
“never had any dealings with that Jew. … Clearly, no one can
ever know what happened with him.”  The spies’ letters, real and fake, conveniently allowed the
top officers to justify placing the whole dossier under seal, on
the grounds that “dishonoring”  Germany ’s and  Italy ’s military
attaches by uncovering their illicit entanglement could spell
disaster for France’s diplomatic relations with both countries.
(Nobody had forgotten that a single, intercepted telegram --
written by the German chancellor on a relatively nonscandalous
subject and deemed a casus belli by the French legislature --had
sparked the catastrophic Franco-Prussian War in 1870.)  At a time when homosexuality still constituted “an affront
to decency” under French law, it seemed all too logical that
the high command should keep its proof of the foreign soldiers’
transgressions under wraps. “That the secret dossier wasn’t
made public, so be it, I regret that,” Major Louis Cuignet, one
of the officers who unwittingly uncovered the fakeness of the
faux Henry, testified in 1904. But, he said, “it was a question
of decency, if I may say so: There are some things that should
not be made public.”  In keeping the Dreyfus dossier shrouded in secrecy, the
French military also fueled right-wing paranoia about a “Jewish
conspiracy” -- a menacing if ill-defined plot the popular
author Edouard Drumont had warned against in his viciously anti-
Semitic best-seller, “La France Juive” (1886), and in which
the captain had ostensibly played a role. According to Gervais,
Peretz and Stutin, whose book addresses the issue in depth, who
put the secret dossier online, fin-de-siecle anti-Semites and
homophobes both envisioned “hidden vices” with which members
of those putatively deviant and immoral “races” were secretly
corrupting the nation.  In this context, the specter of unspecified “things that
should not be made public” encompassed a whole panoply of
phantom social menaces for which Dreyfus, as a Jew and a
convicted spy, didn’t have to be gay, too (as indeed he wasn’t),
to become the poster child.  Sexual Secrets  At the same time, his adversaries readily cast aspersions
on the sexuality of his advocates, known as dreyfusistes; one
general’s note in the secret dossier, for instance, asserts that
the outspoken dreyfusiste Georges Picquart “is known in certain
circles as Georgette … which would explain his attitude in the
Dreyfus Affair.”  It is in this phantasmagoric convergence of Jewishness,
homosexuality and dreyfusisme that the secret dossier evokes the
work of Proust, who was himself half-Jewish and gay and a
supporter of Dreyfus. At the start of “Sodom and Gomorrah”
(1921-22), Volume 4 of “In Search of Lost Time,” the young
narrator accidentally spies an older nobleman, the Baron de
Charlus, in flagrante with another man. The scene shocks the
narrator not because of its “indecency,” but because Charlus
is a well-known lady-killer, and thus has been duplicitously
covering up his true nature.  Occurring just as the anti-Semitic vitriol unleashed by the
Dreyfus Affair has reached its peak in the conservative,
aristocratic milieu where the narrator and Charlus socialize,
the discovery that the baron is an invert (the preferred
Proustian term for male homosexuals) leads the narrator to an
extended meditation on gay identity, which in its “criminal”
clandestineness he compares to Jewish identity:  “Their honor precarious, their liberty provisional,
lasting only until the discovery of their crime; their position
unstable … excluded even, save on the days of general misfortune
when the majority rally round the victim as the Jews rallied
round Dreyfus, from the society -- even the sympathy -- of their
fellows … but also brought into company of their own kind by the
ostracism to which they are subjected, the opprobrium into which
they have fallen, finally having been invested, by a persecution
similar to that of Israel, with the physical and moral
characteristics of a race … [finding] a relief in frequenting
the society of their kind … forming a freemasonry far more
extensive, more effective, and less suspected than that of the
lodges … all of them required to protect their own secret but
sharing with others a secret which the rest of humanity does not
suspect, … playing with the other race … a game that may be kept
up for years until the day of the scandal when these lion-tamers
are devoured; obliged until then to make a secret of their
lives.”  Justifying Persecution  With this passage, Proust emphasizes that societal
persecution and prejudices have transformed homosexuality and
Jewishness into unspeakable transgressions, and that this
criminalization has in turn forced the members of these so-
called races underground, like so many spies, forcing them into
a tacit conspiracy not to destroy the community at large, but to
preserve, through secrecy, their own “unstable position”
within it.  In this light, he observes, the scandal of the trumped-up
espionage case against Dreyfus actually furnished the Jews with
one unintended advantage: a chance to express openly their
solidarity with an unjustly oppressed confrere. Today, the
opening of the secret dossier presents a similar opportunity:
opponents of homophobia, anti-Semitism and all related strains
of criminalizing bigotry can take the full measure of the
mechanisms at work in the Dreyfus Affair, and can reaffirm the
importance of “marginal” identities being allowed to come in
from the cold.  (Caroline Weber is an associate professor of French at
Barnard College and the author, most recently, of “ Queen of
Fashion : What Marie-Antoinette Wore to the Revolution.” The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Weber at  cw2263@columbia.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 