-- DuPont Investments Hindered as Congress Delays Farm Bill
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-03-12T17:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/dupont-investments-hindered-as-congress-delays-farm-bill.html
DuPont Co. (DD) ’s long-term investment
decisions are being hindered as Congress puts off for a year
adopting legislation to set U.S. agricultural policy, said Paul Schickler, the president of the company’s seed unit.  “We’re highly concerned about the farm bill because you
can’t operate an industry that is so long-term focused on a
month-to-month basis with no idea of what the next year or two
might look like,” Schickler, who heads DuPont Pioneer seed,
said today at a Bloomberg Government breakfast in Washington.
“This is creating real uncertainty.”  Farm policies that were adopted in 2008, and were to end
last year, have been extended until Sept. 30. Neither the House
nor Senate agriculture committees have announced dates to draft
new legislation. Last week Representative  Frank Lucas , the
Oklahoma Republican who leads the House farm panel, said
disputes over the  federal budget  are slowing work on any bill.  While farmers are uncertain of the federal support they may
get for corn, soybeans, cotton and other crops, businesses
including DuPont, the world’s second-biggest seed-seller after
 Monsanto Co. (MON) , need to know how much the U.S. will back research
into issues such as plant genetics and pest control that play a
role in decisions about products that take decades to develop,
he said.  Investing, Hiring  “It’s very difficult to be anticipating how to plan for
the future, whether it’s where to invest, how to invest, what
money to invest, or what hiring practices to follow,” he said.  U.S. agricultural law sets the rules for food aid to poor
families, boosting sales by grocers including  Kroger Co. (KR) , as
well as crop subsidies to farmers that help lower raw-materials
costs for buyers including  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  They are
typically passed every five years. Proposals approved last year
by the  U.S. Senate  and the House Agriculture Committee stalled
amid disputes over cuts to the food-stamp program and subsidies
to dairy farmers.  Farmers will start planting corn, the most-valuable U.S.
crop, later this month, completing the work by mid-May in most
areas so that the crop can enter its reproductive stage before
the heat sears the cropland. Soybeans is the second-biggest
crop. Futures sold in Chicago for both commodities soared to
records last year as the drought devastated  harvests  in growing
states including Indiana and  Illinois .  “How does a grower plan what to do this year or next year
when they don’t know what the farm bill is?” Schickler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jon Morgan at
   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  