-- E-Books Join U.K. Inflation Gauge as Champagne Is Removed
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-03-12T10:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/e-books-join-u-k-inflation-gauge-as-champagne-is-removed.html
The price of e-books and white rum
sold in stores will help determine Britain’s inflation rate
after the Office for National Statistics added them to the list
of goods and services it monitors to gauge living costs.  They will now be included in the basket of items that make
up the  consumer prices index  and the retail prices index, the
ONS said in a statement in London today. The list is reviewed
annually to ensure it represents consumer spending, with changes
made for reasons ranging from improved technology to popularity.  E-books read on computer tablets such as Amazon.com Inc.’s
Kindle “represent a significant and growing market,” the
statistics office said. The sale of champagne on licensed
premises has been removed as demand for the drink falls, the
agency said.  The ONS also added hot chocolate, digital television
receivers and recorders, European sliced deli-type meats,
blueberries, packaged vegetables for stir-frying, self-assembly
kitchen wall units and packs of daily disposable contact lenses.
Other items removed include Freeview television receiver boxes,
basin taps and pairs of soft contact lenses.  In a separate release today, the statistics office
published historical data for two new measures of inflation it
will introduce next week.  The new RPIJ index, which adjusts the existing retail
prices index to use a geometric method of averaging price
change, was 2.5 percent in December versus 3.1 percent for the
RPI, the ONS said. A measure called CPIH, which adds owner-
occupiers’ housing costs to the existing consumer prices index,
was 2.5 percent versus 2.7 percent for the CPI. Data for
February will be published March 19 along with monthly inflation
figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  