-- Heart Warning Added to Pfizer’s ‘Z-Pak’ Antibiotic by FDA
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-03-12T20:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/heart-warning-added-to-pfizer-s-z-pak-antibiotic-by-fda.html
Doctors should be aware of
potential risks to patients with heart conditions when
prescribing the antibiotic azithromycin, U.S. regulators said.  The Food and Drug Administration today updated the labeling
information on the drug to reflect increased risk of fatal
irregular heartbeats in patients. Research published last year
found that the pills, used to treat infections, caused a small
increase in cardiovascular deaths, especially among people with
a higher risk of heart problems.  “Health-care professionals should consider the risk of
fatal heart rhythms with azithromycin when considering treatment
options for patients who are already at risk,” the FDA said in
a statement today on the label change. The agency said
azithromycin isn’t alone in carrying heart risks.  Zithromax is made by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, and multiple generic manufacturers, and sometimes
goes by the names Zithromax, Zmax or Z-Pak. The medicine
 generated  about $435 million for New York-based Pfizer in 2012.
It’s prescribed to treat bacterial infections of the respiratory
system and urinary tract and for tonsillitis.  Pfizer has updated the label on the drug, said Lauren
Starr, a company spokeswoman.  “The majority of patients treated with Zithromax
(azithromycin) are not affected by this label update,” Starr
said in an e-mail. The drug “has had a well established benefit
risk profile for more than 20 years and continues to be an
effective treatment option for patients all over the globe
suffering from many types of bacterial infections.”  Pfizer  fell  1.1 percent to $27.94 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  