-- East India Company: The Original Too-Big-to-Fail Firm
-- B y   N i c k   R o b i n s
-- 2013-03-12T15:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/east-india-company-the-original-too-big-to-fail-firm.html
For an institution that has been
defunct for almost 150 years, the East  India  Company still
evokes powerful reactions across the world.  Last year, when the Indian government debated allowing
foreign companies to open supermarkets there, protesters
shouted: “This is the return of the East India Company!” In the
U.K., the East India Company’s extraordinary rise and fall have
uncanny parallels with the stock-market bubbles and government
bailouts that have shaken the economy over the past decade.  And little wonder: At the heart of the company’s story are
eternal questions about how to cope with the powers and perils
of large multinational corporations.  Established by royal charter in 1600 with a monopoly on
all trade with Asia, the East India Company had many
incarnations in its almost 275-year run.  For the first half of its existence, it remained a
commercial supplicant, exporting bullion to pay for  Asia ’s
luxury goods: first spices, then textiles and tea. Along the
way, it became an early model for today’s joint-stock
corporation and pioneered new management techniques for long-
distance supply chains.  It also created a series of lifestyle revolutions in 18th-
century  England . Daniel Defoe described in 1708 how the
company’s calicoes, shipped from India, “crept into our houses,
our closets, our bedchambers.” This calico boom prompted fierce
resistance from Britain’s weavers, who felt threatened by a
flood of cheap Asian imports. In 1720, the government responded
with a ban on Indian calicoes, and it was behind this
protectionist wall that the Industrial Revolution would take
shape.  Asian Intrusions  One market may have closed, but the East India Company
refocused its efforts on the growing demand for Chinese tea on
both sides of the Atlantic.  Meanwhile, at the company’s headquarters on Leadenhall
Street in  London , annual general meetings had become the arena
for fearsome battles between management and shareholders and
between rival management cliques.  These boardroom fights intensified following the Battle of
Plassey in June 1757, when the company used a combination of
force and fraud to place a puppet on the throne of Bengal. The
company then loaded the contents of the Bengal treasury onto a
fleet of 100 boats and sent them downriver to its base in
Calcutta.  In one stroke, Robert Clive, who had engineered the
victory, netted 2.5 million pounds for the company and 234,000
pounds for himself. (Today, this would be equivalent to a 262
million-pound corporate windfall and a cool 25 million-pound
success fee for Clive.) The flow of wealth from  Europe  to Asia
would now be reversed, and the East India Company’s shares
soared on London’s markets.  After the boom, however, came the bust. When drought
struck Bengal in 1769, the company raised taxes and refused to
intervene; contemporaries estimated that as many as 10 million
people died in the resulting famine. Back in London, the East
India Company’s shares slumped in response to the conflict in
South India. This provoked a wider credit crisis, forcing the
company’s directors to beg the government for a bailout in the
summer of 1772. The East India Company’s centrality to
Britain’s commercial and imperial ambitions meant that it was
the original “too big to fail” corporation.  Tea Party  The British government tried to ensure that the East India
Company would recover sufficiently to pay back its debts. One
of the company’s assets was an immense amount of unsold tea.
Instead of just importing the tea to Britain and then letting
wholesalers ship it across the Atlantic, the company was
granted the right to export the tea itself to Britain’s
American colonies.  The arrival of this controversial corporation inflamed a
flagging protest against Britain’s taxes on tea. The result was
the Boston  Tea Party  of December 1773. Here, Chinese tea bought
with Bengali money by a British corporation was dumped in the
sea by American patriots dressed as “Indians.” This was
globalization 18th-century style.  The East India Company’s fall from grace provided a
compelling case study for  Adam Smith  in “The Wealth of
Nations.” Smith argued that the impositions placed on European
colonies, and the practices of monopoly corporations, had
prevented the Age of Discovery from resulting in a generalized
spread of commercial benefits. By the time he published the
book’s third edition, Smith was even more  convinced  of “the
Absurdity and hurtfulness of almost all our chartered
companies.” And he added a new critique of the joint-stock
model of ownership: “Negligence and profusion must always
prevail, more or less, in the management of such a company,” he
concluded.  The revenue that tea provided enabled the East India
Company to eventually recover. But this glamorous trade rested
on a deadly secret: By the early 19th century, growth in the
tea business was paid for by the mass smuggling of opium from
the company’s Indian territories into  China . And in India, the
company had switched its attention from commerce to conquest,
using its private army to take over the bulk of the
subcontinent.  An Anachronism  In Britain, free-trade advocates inspired by Smith had won
the removal of the company’s monopoly on trade with India in
1813 and with China in 1833. Increasingly an anachronism, the
East India Company continued as the administrator of its
conquests in India until its sepoys rebelled in 1857.  John Stuart Mill, the company’s leading executive,
defended his employer against ferocious attack in Parliament,
but he couldn’t stop the inevitable. The company was stripped
of its operational responsibilities, and the British Raj began.  If you go to the site of East India House today, you’ll
find no plaque outside to mark that this was where the world’s
most powerful corporation once dominated both trade and
territories. With the global economy now reorienting toward
Asia, understanding the East India Company’s extraordinary
journey may be more important than ever if we want to
understand the shocks that are still to come.  ( Nick Robins  is the author of “The Corporation that
Changed the World: How the East India Company Shaped the Modern
Multinational.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Nick Robins at  nvjrobins@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 