-- ECB’s Weidmann Says Euro Exchange Rate Isn’t a Threat
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-03-12T13:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/ecb-s-weidmann-says-euro-exchange-rate-isn-t-a-threat.html
European Central Bank council
member Jens Weidmann said the euro’s  exchange rate  won’t derail
the region’s economic recovery.  “I wouldn’t consider the euro exchange rate a threat to the
economy,” Weidmann, who heads  Germany ’s Bundesbank, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Frankfurt today. “What
we currently see is not completely out of line with fundamentals
and corresponds roughly to the historical average.”  The euro has declined more than 4 percent against the
dollar since the start of February, prompting ECB President
 Mario Draghi  to drop a reference to the downside inflation risks
its appreciation posed in this month’s policy statement.
Weidmann said while the ECB doesn’t target the exchange rate, it
does impact on its assessment of the economic outlook.  “We take into consideration the exchange rate movements in
our policy assessment and the assessment of the monetary policy
stance, and of course they will also influence the future
inflation rates and in that sense they enter our policy
deliberations,” he said.  The 17-nation currency traded at $1.3037 at 1:50 p.m. in
Frankfurt today.  ECB Policy  Weidmann said the ECB, which has flooded the banking system
with more than 1 trillion euros in cheap loans and cut its
 benchmark interest rate  to a record-low 0.75 percent, will
maintain its accommodative stance “for as long as necessary.”  “At the same time, we have to see that all over the world
monetary policy is quite expansionary and that of course could
pose risks for financial stability in some of the markets that
we observe,” he said.  In Germany, low borrowing costs are driving up real estate
prices, Weidmann said.  “I wouldn’t consider what is happening there to be a price
bubble, but of course we see very strong price increases that we
have to judge against the background of a very muted development
in the past, and against the fact that the credit development is
not as dynamic as a price bubble would suggest,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  