-- Egypt Offers $2 Billion Debt as IMF Says ‘Bold’ Steps Needed
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-03-12T13:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/egypt-offers-2-billion-debt-as-imf-says-bold-steps-needed-1-.html
Egypt  plans to offer 13.5 billion
pounds ($2 billion) of domestic debt over the next week as the
government struggles to convince the International Monetary Fund
to accept a revised economic plan.  The country with the second-highest ratio of debt to
economic output among its Arab peers will seek bids for 6.5
billion pounds of  six-  and 12-month treasury bills March 14,
according to central bank data on Bloomberg. It will offer 5.5
billion pounds of  three-  and  nine-month  notes March 17 and 1.5
billion pounds of  five-  and  seven-year  bonds the following day.  The IMF, which Egypt has worked with for almost two years
to secure a loan agreement, said yesterday the country’s
government must take “bold and ambitious policy actions to
address its economic and financial challenges without further
delay.” Egypt lowered benchmarks agreed upon with the
Washington-based lender in November, including the budget
deficit target, in a revised economic program announced amid
political unrest that has stalled the $4.8 billion loan.  “Time is not on Egypt’s side, and, in such a poor
political environment, that’s made us very anxious over its
capacity to get the IMF deal done,” Simon Williams, chief
Middle East and North Africa economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in
Dubai, said today by phone. “Every month that passes without an
IMF agreement is another month of lost economic growth, higher
public debt and fresh pressure on reserves.”  Premium Increases  Egypt isn’t looking for a Rapid Financing Instrument, or
emergency funds, from the IMF, Finance Minister El-Morsy El- Sayed Hegazi said in an interview in Cairo today.  The premium 
investors demand to hold Egypt’s dollar-denominated debt climbed
21 basis points, or 0.21 of a percentage point, yesterday to
562, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG Egypt Sovereign
Spread. That’s the highest level since July and compares with a
 Middle East average  of 413 basis points.  Still, local borrowing costs have declined amid increased
demand from banks as unrest stalls economic growth. The average
yield on one-year securities fell 60 basis points from a four-
month high in January to 13.91 percent at an auction last week.  The yield on Egypt’s benchmark $1 billion of 5.75 percent
dollar bonds due in April 2020 advanced one basis point to 7.28
percent as of 2:05 p.m. in Cairo. The yield has jumped 124 basis
points this quarter, heading for the biggest increase over a
similar period since the last three months of 2011.  The pound was unchanged at 6.7632 a dollar, having lost 5.9
percent since the beginning of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  