-- Emerging Stocks Decline a Second Day as Exporters Slide on Won
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2013-03-12T06:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/emerging-stocks-decline-a-second-day-as-exporters-slide-on-won.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
second day as South Korean exporters and Chinese industrial
companies dropped. Energy shares climbed a sixth day on higher
 oil prices .  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  led declines among South Korean
exporters as the won strengthened against the yen. Chinese rail
and shipping companies slipped in  Hong Kong .  PetroChina Co. (857) 
advanced to a five-week high in Hong Kong, leading gains in
energy stocks. The  Thai baht  rose to a 28-month high.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index lost 0.2 percent to
1,061.59 at 1:42 p.m. in Hong Kong. The won gained 0.3 percent
against the Japanese yen, eroding the competitiveness of Korean
exporters compared with their Japanese peers. A  gauge  of energy
stocks in the emerging-markets index added 0.2 percent, poised
for the longest winning streak in three months. The developing-
nations measure surged 1.2 percent last week, the most in two
months, as data from  China  to  Japan  and the U.S. bolstered the
global economic outlook.  “The market has priced in all the good news and it needs
to take a breather,” Lye Thim Loong, who helps manage the
equivalent of $500 million at Libra Invest Bhd., said by phone
in Kuala Lumpur. “People will need to find catalysts.”  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  declined 0.6 percent to a three-
week low. The Shanghai Composite Index slid 1.4 percent while
the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong dropped 0.3 percent.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex
rose 0.1 percent after data showed today the nation’s industrial
output rose more than economists estimated in January. Trading
volumes in the Sensex were 21 percent below the 30-day average,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Thai Gains  Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  advanced 0.3 percent, heading for the
highest level since January 1994. The baht strengthened 0.4
percent against the dollar, the biggest gain among the 11 most
traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Global funds bought $156 million more Thai government bonds
than they sold yesterday, the biggest net purchases this month,
Thai Bond Market Association data show. Prime Minister Yingluck
Shinawatra said yesterday the government is targeting an annual
growth rate of 4 percent to 5 percent over the long term. The
economy grew 6.4 percent in 2012, official data show.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has risen 0.7 percent this
year, trailing a 7.2 percent gain in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed-country stocks. The emerging-markets measure trades at
10.8 times 12-month projected profit, compared with the MSCI
World’s 13.5 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung Falls  Samsung Electronics, the world’s largest maker of mobile
phones and televisions, dropped 0.9 percent in Seoul to the
lowest level since Feb. 19.  PetroChina climbed for a third day, adding 0.9 percent.
West Texas Intermediate oil traded near the highest level in
almost two weeks before a report that may show crude stockpiles
climbed to the most in eight months in the U.S., the world’s
biggest consumer of the commodity.  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919)  slumped 5.8 percent in Hong Kong,
the most since May 14, after the company said yesterday it will
sell a logistics unit to its parent. It will lose a stable and
growing business in the long run after the sale, Vivian Tao, an
analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a note today.  -- Editors: Chan Tien Hin,  Matthew Oakley   To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  