-- Top Credit Agencies Say Hackers Stole Celebrity Reports
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-03-12T20:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/equifax-transunion-say-hackers-stole-celebrity-reports.html
Experian Plc (EXPN) ,  Equifax Inc. (EFX)  and
 TransUnion Corp. (TRUN) , the three biggest U.S. credit-reporting
companies, said they uncovered cases where hackers gained
illegal, unauthorized access to users’ information.  Credit reports, purportedly on famous people ranging from
 Michelle Obama  to Paris Hilton, were posted online. TransUnion
said those responsible used “considerable amounts” of personal
information including social-security numbers to impersonate
victims and access their credit history.  The vulnerability of credit-reporting companies,
custodians of sensitive personal data from credit card balances
to mortgage debts, is gaining greater exposure. Bloomberg News
reported in October that Experian was breached 86 times via the
accounts of organizations such as banks or auto dealers.  “We are aware of recent media reports pertaining to
unauthorized access to files belonging to high-profile
individuals,” Tim Klein, a spokesman for Equifax, wrote in an
e-mailed statement. “Equifax can confirm that fraudulent and
unauthorized access to four consumer credit reports has
occurred.”  The documents posted online come mostly from Equifax,
Experian and TransUnion. Statements by Equifax and TransUnion
verify the authenticity of some of the documents, reported
earlier by website TMZ.com.  Credit Files  “Upon learning of the situation, we took immediate action
to freeze the credit files of those victimized by this malicious
attack in an effort to minimize impact to those individuals,”
Gerry Tschopp, a spokesman at Experian, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Experian is investigating whether any of its information
was compromised, and said that hackers accessed people’s
personal data using outside information.  TransUnion didn’t identify which celebrities’ credit
reports were breached. The hackers had “considerable amounts of
information about the victims, including social-security numbers
and other sensitive, personal identifying information,” said
Clifton O’Neal, a spokesman for TransUnion.  A review of the documents posted online show credit reports
from TransUnion on Michelle Obama, FBI director  Robert Mueller ,
actors  Mel Gibson  and Ashton Kutcher, singer Beyonce, and former
pro wrestler Hulk Hogan.  Online Access  Equifax said credit reports on four celebrities were
compromised through its service. The documents online show
credit reports of U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder; Charlie Beck, chief of the Los Angeles Police Department; the rapper
Jay-Z; former California governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger ; and
former U.S. Vice President Al Gore.  Paris Hilton’s credit report appeared to be from Experian.  The hackers impersonated their targets by gathering
personal details on them from other sources. Using the online
account portal that consumers use to access their own credit
reports, the attackers tricked the systems into giving them
access to credit reports, Equifax and TransUnion said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  