-- Merck Hid Fosamax’s Bone-Weakening Risks, Lawyer Contends
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-03-12T20:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/merck-hid-fosamax-s-bone-weakening-risks-lawyer-contends.html
Merck & Co. (MRK)  officials hid the risks
that its Fosamax osteoporosis drug could weaken bones and lead
to femur fractures, a lawyer told a New Jersey jury in the first
case raising such claims to come to trial.  Merck researchers ignored signs that extended use of drugs
known as bisphosphonates, such as Fosamax, caused femurs to
deteriorate in patients such as Christina Su, said Karen Menzies, one of Su’s lawyers, today in opening statements of the
trial of the woman’s claims over the drug. Merck officials have
said in securities  filings  that they face more than 3,300
lawsuits alleging Fosamax caused such fractures.  To ramp up Fosamax sales, Merck officials “disregarded
safety risks” and pushed the drug for women who weren’t
suffering from osteoporosis, Menzies said.  The trial in state court in Atlantic City comes more than a
month after  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck said it
expected  profit  to decline this year because of generic
competition to its top-selling drug  Singulair  and research
setbacks that slowed efforts to get new medicines to market.  Merck officials contend Fosamax didn’t cause the 67-year-
old Su’s femur fracture and the company properly warned doctors
and patients about the drug’s risks.  Christy Jones, a lawyer for Merck, told jurors today that
Menzies had no evidence to support claims Merck turned a blind
eye to Fosamax’s safety problems. The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  repeatedly approved the medicine as safe and
effective for women worried about bone-density loss, Jones said.  ‘Fragility Fractures’  Merck’s lawyer also said Su’s medical records showed her
bones were strengthened by her Fosamax use and that she fell
into the category of women who were at risk for “fragility
fractures.”  Medical evidence that will be presented in the four-week
trial will show Su “suffered the same kind of fracture”
suffered by women who didn’t take Fosamax, Jones said in her
opening statement.  Fosamax, approved for sale in the U.S. in 1995, generated
 sales  of as much $3 billion a year until patent protection
lapsed in 2008 and it faced competition from generic rivals. The
drug is often prescribed for osteoporosis in women and for
cancer sufferers worried about fractures from weakened bones.  Merck has faced claims over Fosamax since 2009, when cases
brought by women who blamed the drug for their jawbone
deterioration began going to trial.  Court Victories  The company has won five of the seven cases weighed by
juries on the jaw claims. In February, a federal-court jury in
 New York  ordered the drugmaker to  pay  $285,000 to a woman who
blamed the drug for her jawbone injuries.  Merck said in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission that it faces 2,075 cases in state court in New
Jersey alleging that Fosamax causes femur fractures. It faces
another 850 cases consolidated before a federal judge in New
York and 420 gathered in state court in Orange County,
 California , according to the filings.  Researchers said in 2010 that Fosamax and competing bone-
loss drugs may be linked to increased risks of thigh-bone
fractures. As many as 94 percent of 310 patients who had an
uncommon type of fracture to the thigh bone were also taking a
bisphosphonate-based drug, according a September 2010 report in
the  Journal of Bone and Mineral Research . Most had taken the
medicine for more than five years, according to the report.  Metal Rod  Su, who lives outside  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , is a
retired computer-systems analyst who took Fosamax for more than
five years starting in June 2003, according to court filings.
She suffered a broken right femur in 2009 and doctors later that
year inserted a metal rod in her left femur to deal with stress
fractures, according to the filings.  To protect Fosamax sales, Merck officials for 15 years
ignored studies and side-effect reports indicating that long-
term Fosamax use put women taking it to prevent osteoporosis at
risk for “atypical femur fractures,” Menzies told jurors
today.  In 2006, a Merck official based in  Singapore  sent an e-mail
to company executives warning of reports that Fosamax users in
that country were suffering from “brittle bones,” Menzies
said. Merck only took serious notice of the drug’s red flags in
2008 after it came off patent, she said.  The reports indicated that Fosamax, which was supposed to
protect women from femur fractures, “was causing them
instead,” Menzies said.  The case is Su v. Merck & Co., ATL-L-0789-11-MT, Superior
Court of New Jersey ( Atlantic City ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware  at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 