-- EU Carbon Sale Fails for First Time as Bids Miss Reserve Price
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-03-12T12:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/eu-carbon-sale-fails-for-first-time-as-bids-miss-reserve-price.html
The European Union canceled an
auction of carbon emissions permits for the first time as bids
failed to reach the bloc’s secret reserve price.  The sale was called off because the price would have
cleared “significantly” below the prevailing market rate,
according to European Energy Exchange AG, the unit of Deutsche
Boerse AG that runs the auction. EU allowances for delivery in
December fell to a five-week low of 3.71 euros ($4.83) a metric
ton on London’s ICE Futures Europe before paring the decline.  Carbon has plunged almost 90 percent in the past five years
as the euro area’s second recession since 2008 cut industrial
demand for permits, contributing to an oversupply that EU
lawmakers are struggling to fix. Failed auctions may push the
cost of emitting carbon dioxide even lower as unsold credits are
held over for the next four sales under EU rules.  “There are three potential negative signs from this
failure,” Milan Hudak, a carbon analyst at Virtuse Energy sro
in Prague, said today by e-mail. “It was a relatively small
auction, it was the first cancellation of an EU-wide sale, and
as prices did not stay down for long, it seems the market can
live with cancellations.”  EU carbon for December was trading at 3.84 euros a ton as
of noon on ICE in London.  The EU’s carbon system issues allowances to factories and
utilities, which must surrender enough permits to cover their
discharges of carbon dioxide or face fines. This year, nations
from Germany to Greece began selling more than 40 percent of
their allowances in auctions instead of giving them away.  Supply Boost  The EU sells permits on EEX three times a week on behalf of
24 member states. Germany sells permits separately on EEX every
Friday, while the U.K. auctions allowances once every two weeks
on ICE Futures.  Germany had two auction failures this year, on Jan. 18 and
Feb. 22, when bids didn’t reach the reserve price.  Today’s 3.5 million of unsold EU permits will be
distributed equally over the next four auctions, adding about
870,000 tons to sales scheduled from March 14 through March 21,
according to New Energy Finance.  Carbon traders also face more supply from EU nations that
have until April 30 to sell excess carbon allowances reserved
for new entrants. The Phase 2 permits can be used to cover
emissions made in 2012.  “Further cancellations are likely, with no immediate news
in sight about backloading prospects and around 30 to 40 million
tons of Phase 2 new entrant reserves still to be sold by April
30,” Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst at New Energy Finance in
London, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  