-- EU Closes German-Designed Fiscal Straitjacket for Region
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-03-12T12:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/eu-closes-german-designed-fiscal-straitjacket-for-region.html
The European Union completed a
framework for tougher controls on spending by euro-area
governments in a German-led bid to prevent a repeat of the debt
crisis that has threatened to break apart the single currency.  The  European Parliament  voted to let the EU screen the
budgets of euro nations earlier and more closely monitor
countries where rising borrowing costs pose risks to financial
stability. The assembly also approved tighter EU fiscal
surveillance of nations after they exit rescue programs.  With  Europe  still struggling to contain a crisis that
Greece triggered in late 2009, the two pieces of legislation
complement 2011 laws that granted the EU stronger powers to
sanction spendthrift euro countries. The latest rules also
follow a new European treaty aimed at limiting budget deficits.  “With such rules in place three years ago, we would have
avoided the problems currently experienced by some countries and
which have threatened the whole  euro zone  since it would have
been possible to take early, clear and quick actions,” said
Jean-Paul Gauzes, a French member who helped steer the measures
through the 27-nation EU Parliament today in Strasbourg, France.
European governments have already signaled their support after a
negotiated deal with the assembly last month, making their final
approval a formality in the coming weeks.  Extra Year  The 17-nation euro area is putting the finishing touches on
its fiscal straitjacket as economic sluggishness in Europe
prompts calls for policy makers to pay more attention to growth-
boosting policies. As a result, the new rules could be put to a
political test the moment they start to be applied.  France  wants an extra year until 2014 to bring its deficit
within the EU limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product,
 Italy  is mired in a post-election political stalemate that
threatens to reignite debt-market tensions, and Ireland this
year intends to become the first euro country to emerge from an
aid program.  In a provision that may limit any extra backsliding by
France, the more-intrusive EU fiscal surveillance of euro
countries will let the European Commission examine their draft
budgets before approval by national parliaments. Annual spending
plans will have to be submitted to the Brussels-based commission
by Oct. 15 the previous year.  Italian Sovereignty  Another measure may cost Italy some of its fiscal
sovereignty should bond markets turn against Italian sovereign
debt. Under this part of the package, the commission will gain
the right to place under “enhanced surveillance” any euro
nation “experiencing severe difficulties with regard to its
financial stability likely to have adverse spillover effects on
other member states of the euro area.”  A country subject to enhanced surveillance would be
required to take budgetary steps recommended at European level
to address the troubles and would face “regular review
missions” by the commission to gauge progress. These, in turn,
could lead to further European recommendations for
“corrective” fiscal actions.  The commission would also have the right to force a nation
under enhanced surveillance to carry out “stress test exercises
or sensitivity analyses” on the domestic financial system,
report the results to European authorities and face a peer
review of its supervisory capacities. The commission could
prolong enhanced surveillance of a country every six months.  Corrective Measures  Ireland, the second euro-area member to request a financial
rescue after  Greece  in 2010, may be the first to trigger the new
provisions on extra oversight of nations that have exited an aid
program. Under the system of “post-program surveillance,” the
commission will review the economic, fiscal and financial
situation of the country in question and have the right to
propose corrective measures.  A country that has exited a rescue will face post-program
surveillance provided at least 75 percent of the aid received
hasn’t been repaid. Governments can extend the period of
surveillance should financial or budgetary risks persist.  A fourth element of the package covers macroeconomic
adjustment programs for countries requesting emergency funds. It
institutionalizes practices in place for governments that have
already sought aid, outlining roles for the commission, the
 European Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  in
drafting national economic policies.  Cypriot Bailout  Cyprus last June became the fifth euro-area nation to ask
for a financial rescue. The request, still being negotiated,
follows 486 billion euros ($633 billion) in European and IMF
commitments for Greece, Ireland,  Portugal  and  Spain ’s banking
system since 2010. It also follows the ECB’s announcement in
September of a bond-buying program for euro nations willing to
sign up to austerity conditions -- an offer that has soothed
debt markets without yet being triggered.  With the latest commission forecasts for 2013 pointing to
the first back-to-back  annual contraction  of the region’s
economy since the single currency’s birth in 1999, the political
debate has shifted to the scope for giving euro governments
leeway to overshoot deficit targets. Last week, EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  signaled a readiness to
be more flexible in requiring fiscal cuts.  The EU Parliament added language to the new rules to help
promote growth.  The assembly failed to achieve something more ambitious: a
fast-track move toward debt pooling by euro governments. In the
face of opposition to such a step by a German-led group of
countries, and as part of last month’s negotiated agreement with
national governments, Parliament representatives discarded an
appeal made last June for a fund to pool and help repay the
debts of nations using the euro.  Debt Pooling  The commission, which proposed the new euro-area fiscal
legislation in November 2011, also opposed this initiative. In a
concession, the commission agreed to create an “expert group”
to assess the feasibility of debt pooling in the euro area and
produce a report by March 2014.  EU governments are tentatively scheduled to give their
final endorsement of the extra budget-oversight rules on May 13,
with publication of the legislation in the Official Journal and
its entry into force due to take place several weeks later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  