-- EU’s De Gucht Seeks Green Light to Start U.S. Free Trade Talks
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2013-03-12T18:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/eu-s-de-gucht-seeks-green-light-to-start-u-s-free-trade-talks.html
European Union Trade Commissioner
Karel  De Gucht  asked for a mandate to negotiate a free trade
accord with the U.S. that the EU says would add more than 86
billion euros ($112 billion) a year to the bloc’s economy.  EU governments must approve De Gucht’s request, the first
formal step in the process for beginning negotiations on an
agreement to broaden the world’s largest economic relationship.  “I hope they will quickly decide to open negotiations so
that we can begin working ahead of the summer break,” De Gucht
told reporters today in Strasbourg,  France . “The sooner we
begin, the sooner we can achieve an agreement that benefits all
sides.”  A free-trade accord would remove tariffs, ease regulatory
barriers and expand access in investment, services and public
procurement, according to the EU, which predicts a deal will
boost trans-Atlantic gross domestic product by between
0.5 percent and 1 percent. Investment and trade in  goods and
services  between the U.S. and  Europe  amounted to $4.9 trillion
in 2011, EU figures show.  While France has voiced concerns that the free-trade talks
will affect agriculture and food safety and EU governments may
take time to weigh the request to start discussions, De Gucht
has said he expects to get the green light from the 27  member
states . He will lead the EU negotiating team in the Brussels-
based European Commission, the bloc’s executive arm.  “First of all, we will work to reduce remaining product
tariffs -- currently at 4 percent on average -- to zero either
immediately or over fixed time periods,” De Gucht said today.
“Also we will seek ambitious  market access  in services and
procurement.”  Non-Tariff Barriers  He also vowed to tackle non-tariff barriers to reduce red
tape and extra costs for companies.  “The real challenge for both sides is to tackle the many
behind-the-border barriers to trade that exist within
regulations or domestic standards,” the commissioner said.
“It’s simply human nature to think that your set of rules is
the best.”  De Gucht said his goal is for negotiators to strike a
“comprehensive” agreement before the end of the current
commission’s term in late 2014. He cited the need “for both
sides to have a pragmatic approach to tackle any difficulties.”  Talks with the EU may help President  Barack Obama  meet his
goal of doubling exports by the end of 2014 as World Trade
Organization negotiations stall and  China  expands its role
internationally. Obama’s administration also plans to complete
negotiations on the Trans-Pacific Partnership with 10 nations
and buttress America’s role as a manufacturing center.  Political Will  The prospects of a broad EU-U.S. deal before 2015 depend on
political will, De Gucht said.  “It all depends on whether or not both the EU and the U.S.
are able to find far-reaching, but nevertheless pragmatic,
compromises,” he said. ‘You need a number of political
breakthroughs. Now, whether you can reach them or not is not a
matter of time. It’s a matter of resolve.”  Former U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said on Feb. 13
that “everything’s on the table across all sectors,” including
agricultural issues and genetically modified products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  