-- Treasuries Halt Six-Day Drop, Dow Sets Another Record
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-03-12T20:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/euro-weakens-as-commodities-slide-while-u-s-equity-futures-drop.html
Treasuries rose for the first time
in seven days while Britain’s pound touched the lowest level
since 2010 versus the dollar after U.K. industrial production
unexpectedly declined. Most U.S. stocks fell, even as the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  climbed to another record.  Ten-year U.S. note yields decreased four basis points to
2.02 percent at 4 p.m. in  New York  and the yen climbed 0.3
percent against the dollar, paring an earlier 0.7 percent gain.
The pound trimmed losses after weakening as much as 0.6 percent
to $1.4832. The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (VIX)  slipped 0.2 percent
as three U.S. stocks fell for every two that rose. Industrial
metals led commodities higher and gold futures rose for a fourth
straight day, the longest rally in six months, amid speculation
central banks will expand stimulus.  The Dow  swung  between gains and losses throughout the day
before ending higher for an eighth straight day, its longest
streak in two years. European Union leaders will meet in
Brussels for a summit on March 14-15 to discuss rescue plans for
Cyprus. Treasuries remained higher after the U.S. auctioned $32
billion in three-year notes.  “The Fed isn’t going to move any time soon, and that means
we aren’t going to stray far from these levels which support the
front end of the yield curve,” saidAdrian Miller, director of
fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York. “And
the recent backup in yields brought buyers in as well.”  The  Federal Reserve  has kept its benchmark interest-rate
target at zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 to support the
economy. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said March 2 that premature
increases would “carry a high risk of short-circuiting the
recovery.”  Bond Auction   Thirty-year U.S. bonds  also snapped a six-day slide,
sending yields down five basis points to 3.21 percent. The
three-year securities sold today drew a yield of 0.411 percent,
compared with an average forecast of 0.413 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of seven of the Federal’s 21 primary
dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was 3.51,
versus a 3.61 average at the past 10 sales. Treasuries fell for
the previous six days as stronger-than-forecast U.S. economic
data damped safety demand.  Approaching Record  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  yesterday rose to within nine points of its
2007 record. Among its  10 main groups  today, gauges of
technology, industrial and financial shares dropped more than
0.5 percent to lead losses while telephone and health companies
rose. The Dow rose 2.77 points to 14,450.06 today, its sixth
straight record.  Citigroup Inc. lost 1.4 percent, retreating from a two-year
high, and the KBW Bank slipped from the highest level since
April 2010.  A planned international limit on bank indebtedness will be
on the agenda of every meeting of the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  this year as regulators seek to wean lenders off
their addiction to debt, according to three people familiar with
the talks. Regulators are preparing to fight lenders over the
details of the so-called  leverage ratio  as they seek to toughen
rules on the minimum amount of capital they must use to back
their investment. The Basel group will meet tomorrow.   Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  rallied 1.3 percent today after the owner
of the KFC restaurant chain said first-quarter same-store sales
fell less than estimated as its reputation rebounded from a
probe of a former chicken supplier. Merck & Co. jumped 3.2
percent after saying it will continue a study of its
cholesterol-lowering drug Vytorin, easing investor concern the
drug may pose a risk to patients.  $10 Trillion  More than  $10 trillion  has been restored to U.S. equity
values during the four-year  bull market  as the  S&P 500  more than
doubled from the bottom in 2009, fueled by corporate earnings
that topped estimates and monetary stimulus from the Federal
Reserve. The Dow recouped all its losses from the financial
crisis in less than 65 months, more than a year faster than the
recovery from the Internet bubble.  “After setting new all-time highs for several consecutive
days, the market may be a little tired, and rightly so,”  Ryan Larson , the Chicago-based head of U.S. equity trading at RBC
Global Asset Management (U.S.) Inc., said in an interview. His
firm oversees $250 billion. “Global news flow is relatively
light again today, and with little in the way of catalysts, it
would not be surprising to see the streak end. That being said,
as long as central bank accommodation remains, any pullback
should be short-term in nature.”  European Movers  In Europe, SBM Offshore NV surged 21 percent after the
world’s biggest supplier of floating oil production platforms
agreed to pay $470 million to settle a dispute with Talisman
Energy Inc. Antofagasta Plc advanced 3.1 percent as the copper
producer controlled by Chile’s Luksic family increased its
dividend.  British Land Co. (BLND) , the U.K.’s second-largest real estate
investment trust, fell 4.4 percent on plans to raise about 500
million pounds in a share sale to spend on acquisitions and
development.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  closed up less than 0.1 percent.
The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies was
9.7 percent lower than the 30-day average today after the gauge
rallied to a 4 1/2-year high last week. S&P 500 trading was
about 13 percent below average at this time of day.  The VStoxx Index, which gauges the cost of hedging against
moves in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, fell 1.7 percent to 17.32, a
one-month low. In the U.S., the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index rebounded 6.1 percent to 12.27 today after
sliding to the lowest level in more than six years yesterday.  ‘Ahead of Reality’  “Sentiment is ahead of reality and stock markets are one
or two steps ahead of the real economy,” said Pang Cheng Duan,
a managing director in Singapore at Manulife Asset Management,
which oversees about $45.3 billion in Asia. “The rally cannot
go on liquidity alone, and we need more impetus like better
corporate earnings.”  The yen snapped a four-day drop against the dollar and euro
after an opposition lawmaker said the  Democratic Party  of Japan
would oppose the nomination of Kikuo Iwata for deputy governor
of the central bank, damping bets for greater monetary stimulus.  The pound weakened against 11 of its 16 major peers.
Industrial production fell 1.2 percent from December, when it
rose 1.1 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said today
in London. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 29
economists was for a 0.1 percent increase.  Gilts  The yield on 10-year U.K. gilts tumbled five basis points
to 1.96 percent. The yield on British securities fell below
their U.S. counterparts for the first time in five months
yesterday. Spanish bonds advanced for a 10th day, the longest
rally since August 2005.  The Hungarian forint retreated 1.5 percent versus the euro,
falling to a nine-month low, as inflation slowed. The rand
weakened against all 16 major peers after  South Africa  posted a
current-account shortfall.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.5 percent, declining
for a second day. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 1 percent to
lead declines, falling for a fourth day in the longest stretch
of losses since November, on speculation regulators may resume
initial public offerings.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials increased 0.1
percent as zinc, lead, cocoa and aluminum climbed at least 1.3
percent to lead gains. Gold futures for April increased 0.9
percent to $1,591.70 an ounce, the highest level of the month,
as signs of slowing growth in Europe increased speculation that
central banks will expand stimulus measures, boosting demand for
precious metals as a store of value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  