-- Even Berlusconi Can’t Slow Bulls Boosting Euro View: Currencies
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a ,   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2013-03-12T10:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/even-berlusconi-can-t-slow-bulls-boosting-euro-view-currencies.html
Foreign-exchange strategists are
convinced that Italy’s new government will maintain austerity
measures that preserved the currency union during the region’s
sovereign crisis even as the euro tumbles from a 14-month high.  Analysts raised their second-quarter forecasts for the 17-
nation currency to $1.32 from $1.28 at the end of December as
Italy’s Feb. 24-25 election ended without a clear winner,
according to the median of more than 60 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. That 3.1 percent increase is the second-biggest
among the Group of 10 currencies after the Swedish krona.  While traders pushed the euro down to $1.3018 today from
this year’s high $1.3711 on Feb. 1 as anti-austerity parties led
by three-time premier Silvio Berlusconi and former comedian
Beppe Grillo won blocking minorities in the Senate, strategists
are looking to the debt markets. Italy’s borrowing costs have
fallen from a three-month high on Feb. 27 as European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi said his untapped bond-buying
program, known as Outright Monetary Transactions, remains in
place as an “effective” backstop.  “What OMT has done in my view is put the destiny of each
country in their own hands rather than to be hostages to
external factors,” Nick Verdi, a strategist at Barclays Plc in
Singapore, said yesterday. “So it is essentially Italy’s choice
as to what happens next. And that’s why you haven’t seen an
aggressive sell-off in the euro.”  Seeking Resolution  Barclays’s second-quarter forecast for the euro is $1.35,
up from an estimate of $1.25 at the end of 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. “Ultimately, the market still
thinks that we will get some form of political resolution in
Italy,” Verdi said.  While Europe’s common currency slumped 3.8 percent in
February against the dollar, its first decline in seven months,
it’s up from a two-year low of $1.2043 on July 24. That was just
days before Draghi pledged to do whatever it takes to preserve
the currency union, kick-starting a 14 percent rally to $1.3711.  Democratic Party chief Pier Luigi Bersani, whose coalition
won the most votes in Italy’s election, said on March 3 he will
form a government without seeking an alliance with Berlusconi or
Grillo. If no political leader gathers enough support in
parliament to become prime minister, President Giorgio Napolitano can call early elections.  Budget Surplus  Grillo, whose Five Star Movement won 25 percent of the vote
in last month’s Italian elections, said he would quit politics
if his party members support a government led by Bersani’s
Democratic Party. “If there were a confidence vote by the
parliamentary group of the Five Star Movement in favor of the
ones that have destroyed Italy, I would retire from politics,”
Grillo said yesterday in a post on Twitter.  While Italy has the third-highest ratio of debt to gross
domestic product among developed countries at 126 percent, the
budget will turn to surplus this year for the first time since
at least 1988, according to  estimates  from the International
Monetary Fund that exclude extraordinary items.  Views on Italy’s election are divided among ratings
companies. Standard & Poor’s retained its BBB+ ranking on the
country’s debt on Feb. 26, citing expectations that fiscal
consolidation wouldn’t deviate from its current path. Moody’s
Investors Service said the election impasse puts Italy at risk
for a downgrade. Fitch Ratings lowered the nation’s rating on
March 8 to BBB+, the third-lowest investment-grade, from A-.  Falling Yields  Italy’s 10-year bond yield fell to 4.60 percent today after
jumping to 4.96 percent on Feb. 27, the highest since November.
When Berlusconi resigned in November 2011, the yield climbed
above the 7 percent level that forced Greece, Portugal and
Ireland to seek international bailouts.  The cost to insure the nation’s government bonds from non-
payment for five years with credit-default swaps decreased to
264.165 basis points yesterday from this year’s high of 291.52
on Feb. 26. That’s the third-highest after Greece and Portugal
among sovereigns of developed economies, and more than seven
times the 39.83 cost for similar contracts tied to U.S.
government debt.  “The market has become less sensitive to Italy’s political
turmoil as this go-go market atmosphere overrides negative
catalysts,” Shinji Kunibe, who helps oversee the equivalent of
$53 billion as chief portfolio manager for fixed-income
investments at Nissay Asset Management Corp. in Tokyo, said
yesterday. Even so, “a receding of austerity will make the OMT
become like a pie in the sky for Italy,” he said.  Short Positions  Italy’s bonds have been supported along with global equity
markets as central banks in the U.S., Japan and the U.K. pumped
cash into their economies, while the OMT program, under which
the ECB buys government debt in exchange for austerity pledges,
has kept borrowing costs anchored.  Futures traders are signaling doubts the euro will hold
onto its gains. Wagers on a decline outnumbered those on a gain
by 26,116 contracts on March 5, the most so-called  net shorts 
this year, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show. That’s a reversal from net longs of
37,952 on Feb. 5, a level unseen since July 2011.  The region’s economy will shrink 0.3 percent in 2013,
marking its first annual back-to-back contraction since the euro
was introduced in 1999, the European Commission forecast in
February. Data this month showed unemployment rose to a record
11.9 percent in January.  Risk Reversals  The premium paid by traders for the right to sell the euro
over those to buy it climbed to 1.7325 percentage points on Feb.
26, the highest since August. The three-month risk reversal rate
dropped 1.2375 percentage points in February, the biggest
monthly slide since November 2010, when Ireland sought an
international bailout.  “We have to look into Europe’s fundamentals rather than
Italian politics,” Daisuke Karakama, a market economist in
Tokyo at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd, said yesterday. “The high
unemployment is a big problem. Investors are more inclined to
let go of the euro, and that’s crystal clear looking at the drop
in risk-reversal rate.”  The shared currency is still higher than the average of
$1.2125 since its inception. Analysts forecast the currency will
end this year at $1.30. UBS AG strategists said in a March 9
report that it favors buying the euro versus the pound, Swiss
franc and yen. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said a day earlier it
expects the euro to strengthen.  Draghi told reporters on March 7 that in Italy, “the ball
is in the government’s hand” and the OMT remains in place as an
effective backstop. European Union leaders, including Economic
and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn and German Foreign Minister
Guido Westerwelle, have said government stability in Italy is
crucial for the region.  “We need a much clearer indication of who the next Italian
government will be and what their plans are on fiscal policy,”
Sean Callow, a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking
Corp. in Sydney, said on March 8. “The Italian situation looks
like it’s going to drag on for some time. There is a complacency
that it will all work out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  