-- Evonik CEO Finds Backdoor to IPO After ‘Painful’ Failures
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-03-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/evonik-ceo-engel-finds-backdoor-to-ipo-after-painful-failures.html
Foiled in three attempts at listing
Evonik Industries AG on  Germany ’s stock market, Chief Executive
Officer Klaus Engel has found a new way to achieve an initial
public offering of the $18 billion chemical maker.  This time, owners RAG Stiftung and CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. sold a 12 percent stake to a group of investors from
Singapore to the U.K. and Evonik will follow up in April with a
small public offering of stock worth a three-digit-million euro
sum. The company will achieve a long-held ambition to list,
while avoiding the traumas of past attempts, Engel said.  “We have learned a painful lesson on the topic of IPO,”
Engel told reporters yesterday in Essen, where the company is
based. “What was difficult was finding a consensus between the
owners’ valuation and what the market was willing to pay at that
point in time. Now we have done it the other way round.”  Evonik will begin with a free float of as much as 14
percent, though the chemical maker with almost 14 billion euros
($18 billion) in sales is a candidate to join rival  BASF SE (BAS)  on
Germany’s benchmark DAX index at a later stage. The private
placements will count as traded equity and a small number of
additional shares will be released into the market in the
scaled-down offering next month with demand setting the price.  The maker of ingredients for cosmetics and food may
eventually have a free float of about 75 percent if CVC sells
its entire stake and RAG-Stiftung reduces its holding to about
25 percent, it has said.  In June last year, Evonik abandoned its third attempt at an
IPO and the company said at the time that the cancellation
reflects the conditions in the market and not the company’s
performance. The maker of additives for plastics, glass and
cosmetics also shelved IPO plans in 2008 and 2011.  ‘Well Known’  Engel said there’s “hardly a big investor in the world
that we have not spoken to” as the company marketed itself as
an investment opportunity and each time market volatility put
paid to those attempts.  Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s state-owned investment
company, agreed to buy 4.6 percent under the current IPO
process. The sovereign investor was one of those spoken to
during previous roadshows and Engel said he’s pleased to have
such an investor on board.  “We flew around the world three times. We are well
known,” Engel said. “Now that the capital market has
stabilized a bit in the short term, there has been a chance.”  Evonik, which is marketing itself as a pure-play chemicals
company, has a plan to whittle down its ownership of property.
The real-estate assets have been combined with apartments
belonging to the IG BCE union into a company called Vivawest
which has property with a market value of about 6.2 billion
euros.  Property Exit  RAG-Stiftung plans to take 30 percent of Vivawest and
Evonik will place a further 25 percent in its pension fund. IG
BCE will hold 26.8 percent. Evonik is talking to RAG AG about
divesting a further 10 percent, potentially leaving Evonik with
just 8 percent in the company, board member Thomas Wessel said
at a press conference.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  advised IG BCE on the
Vivawest deal.  Evonik predicts sales will rise this year and operating
profit will remain at about last year’s level. Adjusted earnings
before interest and tax fell 7 percent to 1.95 billion euros in
2012.  RAG Stiftung, a foundation that’s charged with winding down
Germany’s deep-shaft coal mines, has earmarked proceeds from the
share sale to pay for costs related to closing the mines. Before
the sale to institutional investors, RAG Stiftung owned 75
percent of Evonik, while CVC, a U.K. buyout firm, held 25
percent.  The sale to private investors valued Evonik at about 14
billion euros, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction at the time.  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP advised a group of
more than two dozen institutional investors on the private
placement, Skadden said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  