-- Evonik Owners Sell 12% of Shares in Run-Up to Fourth IPO Attempt
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-03-12T09:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/evonik-owners-sell-12-of-shares-in-run-up-to-fourth-ipo-attempt.html
Evonik Industries AG, a German
specialty chemicals maker, said its owners sold a 12 percent
stake in the company to institutional investors, paving the way
for a fourth attempt to sell shares to the public.  Owners RAG Stiftung and CVC Capital Partners Ltd. sold an
equal amount of shares in private placements that began in
February, Essen-based Evonik said today, without disclosing the
purchase price. Evonik’s shareholders were planning to sell
shares at a price that valued the whole business at about 14
billion euros ($18.2 billion), a person familiar with the deal
said last month.  Evonik, a candidate to join Germany’s benchmark DAX index,
has postponed its share sale three times because of volatile
markets. Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s state-owned
investment company, agreed to buy 4.6 percent, Temasek spokesman
 Stephen Forshaw  said yesterday.  “We will now move ahead towards the listing together with
our owners,” Evonik Chief Executive Officer Klaus Engel said
today at a press conference in Essen.  Adjusted earnings before interest and tax in the fourth
quarter fell 3 percent to 336 million euros, Evonik also said.
Sales dropped 2 percent to 3.27 billion euros. Revenue will
probably rise in 2013 and operating profit will remain at about
the same level as last year, Evonik forecast.  Evonik is planning to dispose of its real-estate assets
which have been combined with apartments belonging to the IG BCE
union into a company called Vivawest. RAG-Stiftung plans to take
30 percent of Vivawest and Evonik will place a further 25
percent in its pension fund. IG BCE will hold 26.8 percent.  Evonik said it plans to divest the remaining Vivawest
shares to investors with a long-term investment horizon in the
mid-term.  RAG Stiftung, a foundation that’s charged with winding down
 Germany ’s deep-shaft coal mines, has earmarked proceeds from the
share sale to pay for costs related to closing the mines. Before
the sale to institutional investors, RAG Stiftung owned 75
percent of Evonik, while CVC, a U.K. buyout firm, held 25
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  