-- Ex-Commerzbank Official Admits to Passing IRS Secrets
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-12T23:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/ex-commerzbank-official-admits-to-passing-irs-secrets.html
A former U.S. Internal Revenue
Service employee pleaded guilty to passing information about a
tax fraud audit to  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  while he was working to get a
job with the Frankfurt-based bank.  Dennis Lerner, 60, pleaded guilty yesterday in  Manhattan  to
charges of criminal conflict of interest and illegally
disclosing federal income-tax information. Prosecutors said he
audited Commerzbank in connection with about $1 billion in
allegedly unreported income, negotiating a $210 million
settlement shortly before being hired as the bank’s tax
director.  “Dennis Lerner betrayed the trust put in him as a public
servant by parlaying his position at the IRS into a high-powered
job at a bank he was auditing through a scheme that may now land
him in prison,” Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a
statement today. “We will not tolerate corrupt government
employees and will prosecute and punish them to the full extent
of the law.”  Under a plea agreement with the government dated March 1,
Lerner isn’t required to admit any alleged misconduct while he
was a Commerzbank official.  “Mr. Lerner is looking forward to putting this behind him
and moving on with his life,” said his lawyer, Sharon McCarthy.  Margarita Thiel, a Commerzbank spokeswoman, declined to
comment on Lerner’s guilty plea.  Sentencing Guidelines  Lerner faces as many as five years in prison on each of the
two counts when he’s sentenced by U.S. District Judge John Keenan June 11. Both sides agreed that federal sentencing
guidelines, which aren’t binding on the judge, call for Lerner
to get four to 10 months in prison. The agreement doesn’t
require Lerner to cooperate with investigators.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office, declined
to say whether the investigation is continuing.  Under the agreement, the government said it will drop one
charge that Lerner illegally contacted the IRS as a Commerzbank
executive to urge the agency to complete the tax fraud
settlement he had negotiated. Prosecutors also agreed to seek
dismissal of a count claiming Lerner disclosed to an
unidentified Commerzbank employee the name of a confidential IRS
whistleblower who provided information about the bank.  According to a complaint filed with the court in September
by Special Agent Erik Wood, of the Treasury Inspector General
for Tax Administration, investigators recorded conversations
between IRS employees and Lerner while he was at Commerzbank.  Private Meeting  In the September complaint, Wood said that between July 11
and July 14, 2011, Lerner met privately with an unidentified
Commerzbank employee to negotiate the tax fraud settlement,
without any other IRS employees present.  The $210 million settlement amount was about 62 percent of
the potential taxes due in the case, Wood said. A Commerzbank
employee told him that the bank had been willing to settle the
the audit for “for an amount substantially greater” than
$210 million, Wood said.  Wood said Lerner and the unidentified Commerzbank employee
discussed Lerner’s possible employment by the bank during the
same time they were discussing settlement terms. Lerner was
formally offered the tax director job on Aug. 11, 2011, and
started work on Sept. 1 of that year, Wood said.  The case is U.S. v. Lerner, 12-cr-00952, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 