-- Ex-N.Y. Lawmaker Meng Gets Month in Jail in Bribery Case
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-03-12T20:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/ex-n-y-lawmaker-meng-gets-month-in-jail-in-bribery-case.html
Jimmy Meng, a former New York State
legislator and the father of a first-term U.S. congresswoman,
was sentenced to a month in jail for his role in a bogus bribery
scheme.  Meng, described by supporters as a leader in New York’s
Chinese-American community, was sentenced today in federal court
in Brooklyn for a single count of  wire fraud .  The former lawmaker had promised to help an associate
facing tax fraud charges by passing along bribes to prosecutors,
and requested $80,000 packed in a fruit basket. In truth, he
planned to keep the money himself, Meng admitted during a
hearing in November.  “The defendant threatened, cajoled, fabricated and lied to
his victim about his many nonexistent contacts,” U.S. District
Judge Allyne R. Ross said today, citing recordings of Meng
collected during an investigation. The judge further ordered
Meng to serve two years’ probation, perform 750 hours of
community service and pay a $30,000 fine.  Dressed in a dark suit and glasses, Meng today addressed
the judge, his voice shaking with emotion.  “It was a stupid mistake I made, which I will regret for
the rest of my life,” he said. “I hope some day I can be
forgiven.”  Cooperating Associate  Meng was arrested when he received the money from the
associate, who had contacted federal authorities and was
cooperating with the government, according to court papers.  Under nonbinding sentencing guidelines, Meng, 69, faced as
long as 18 months in prison. His lawyer, Todd Greenberg, sought
leniency because of his client’s civic involvement, age and
health problems, including depression, panic attacks and
insomnia.  Grace Meng, a Democrat from Queens,  New York , who was sworn
into Congress in January, said in a letter to the court that her
“heart felt broken” when she learned of her father’s arrest.  “Since I can remember, he has always encouraged us, his
children, to volunteer as much as we could and to enter public
service,” she said.  In other letters submitted to the court, Meng was described
as having had a difficult childhood in  China  after his mother
died during his birth. He later found success in the U.S. after
starting a lumber firm, according to the letters.  ‘Power Broker’  Todd Kaminsky, an assistant U.S. attorney, described Meng’s
conduct as “exactly the opposite of the behavior we would
expect from a civic leader in the community.”  In recorded conversations with the associate, Meng “acted
aggressively” and “was bossy,” Kaminsky said.  “Jimmy Meng held himself out as a power broker, able to
buy and sell justice,”  Brooklyn  U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch
said in a statement today. “In reality, he was a swindler who
tried to obtain $80,000 for a nonexistent bribery scheme.”  The case is U.S. v. Meng, 1:12-mj-00695, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  