-- Texas Challenges Permit Ban Protecting Endangered Cranes
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-03-15T17:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/texas-told-not-to-issue-water-permits-that-hurt-cranes.html
Texas  asked for an emergency stay
of a U.S. court order temporarily barring water permits for a
river system supplying central Texas cities, power generators
and petrochemical plants to ensure enough water reaches the last
migratory flock of endangered whooping cranes.  The five-foot-tall bird was believed to be extinct until a
flock of 15 survivors was found on an isolated stretch of Texas
coastal marsh in the 1940s. There are about 500 whooping cranes
alive today, according to trial evidence, with a flock of about
250 birds that migrates between Texas and  Canada . That flock is
the only self-sustaining wild population.  U.S. District Judge Janis Graham Jack in Corpus Christi,
Texas, March 11 blocked state regulators from approving new
permits for the Guadalupe, San Antonio or Blanco rivers “until
the state of Texas provides reasonable assurances to the court
that such permits will not take whooping cranes in violation of
the Endangered Species Act.”  Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  called the ruling flawed
and asked Graham to stay her order while the state appeals “to
prevent unnecessary economic hardship’’ for the communities and
industrial water users in the river basin. The court order will
“impose irreparable harm on the state’s economy and its
drought-affected residents,’’ Abbott said today in a statement.  Refinery Concentration  The cranes share a coastline with the world’s largest
concentration of refineries and petrochemical plants, which
stretches from their refuge eastward to the Louisiana border.
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ’s Seadrift plant, one of the largest water
users on the river system, sits across the bay from the refuge.  The judge determined that mismanagement by Texas water
regulators resulted in the deaths of 23 endangered cranes in
2009. She ordered the state to devise a water-sharing plan that
accommodates historic water rights while allowing enough fresh
water to reach the coastal marsh where the endangered flock
spends the winter.  “This is a serious, constitutional-scale fight the state
is embarking on,” Jim Blackburn, the lead attorney for a
coalition of coastal tourism and environmentalists who sued to
protect the cranes, said. “The state’s hard-nosed denial
approach to our future water problems is short sighted. The
state will lose because the cranes are important and creative
future alternative water supplies are important.”  Jack said in her ruling that the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality, which grants water permits, violated
federal wildlife protections by failing to monitor how much
water cities and industrial users took from the rivers during
droughts. According to evidence at a 2011 trial, so much water
was siphoned from the rivers during the 2009 drought that 8.5
percent of the Texas whooping crane flock died.  State regulators were sued in 2010 after studies found that
reduced river flow into the marsh depleted drinking water
supplies and stocks of blue crabs and wolfberries that the
cranes feed on at the Aransas Wildlife Refuge about 175 miles
southwest of Houston.  The case is Aransas Project v. Shaw, 2:10-cv-00075, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas ( Corpus Christi ).  To contact the reporter on the story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  