-- Mexico Rating Outlook Raised to Positive From Stable by S&P
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-03-12T21:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/mexico-s-rating-outlook-raised-to-positive-from-stable-by-s-p.html
Mexico  had the outlook on its
credit rating raised by  Standard & Poor’s  on the prospect that
proposed legal changes will boost growth in  Latin America ’s
second-largest economy.  The outlook on the BBB rating, the second-lowest investment
grade, was changed to positive from stable, meaning it is more
likely to be raised than lowered. Mexico’s currency advanced to
its strongest level in more than a year while yields on
benchmark peso bonds fell to a record.  “The prospects for the passage of policies that further
strengthen the country’s fiscal room for maneuver and medium-
term growth have improved under” the administration of
President Enrique Pena Nieto, who took office Dec. 1, S&P
analyst Lisa Schineller wrote today in a report.  Pena Nieto won support from his party last week to advance
an agenda that includes ending state-owned  Petroleos Mexicanos ’s
75-year monopoly on the oil industry. The party also removed its
opposition to taxing food and medicine, giving Pena Nieto the
option to propose such a strategy to raise revenue. He already
signed a bill to improve education by making teachers more
accountable for performance, and last year as president-elect
helped pass a labor-system overhaul designed to boost
productivity.  Finance Minister Luis Videgaray said today in a post on
Twitter that S&P’s change in outlook is “good news and
motivates us to keep working.”  Peso Rallies  The peso extended gains after the announcement, rallying
0.8 percent, the most among major emerging-market currencies, to
12.4451 per  U.S. dollar , the strongest level since September
2011.  Yields on peso bonds due in December 2024 fell nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 4.92 percent, the lowest on
a closing basis since they were issued in 2005, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mexican central bank Deputy Governor Manuel Sanchez, in a
report dated March 11, said it’s “necessary” that investors
and banks take into account that  interest rates  will rise sooner
or later.  “A challenge to confidence in Mexico is the prudent
management of capital inflows,” he said. “The possibility of a
reversal of capital flows requires prudence.”  Rate Cut  The central bank cut its benchmark interest rate 50 basis
points, or 0.5 percentage point, to 4 percent on March 8, the
first reduction in more than three years after Sanchez in a Feb.
27 interview said he didn’t see a case for a rate cut because
inflation and inflation expectations have remained above the
central bank’s 3 percent target.  S&P and Fitch Ratings lowered Mexico’s rating one level in
November and December 2009, respectively, as the economy
contracted 6.2 percent and crude oil output from Petroleos
Mexicanos declined. Moody’s Investors Service has kept Mexico’s
Baa1 rating unchanged since 2005.  In a telephone interview today, Schineller said that
passage of Mexico’s key economic bills must precede any upgrade
in the nation’s  credit rating .  “We want to see passage and evaluation of the likely
impact of any kind of reform” before an upgrade can be
considered, she said.  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction of what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
increases, decreases and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December.
Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating and outlook
changes and 50 percent of those by S&P. That’s worse than the
longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more than 300
changes since 1974.  Mexico’s BBB rating from S&P is five levels below  Chile ’s
AA- rating. Moody’s rates Mexico one level higher at Baa1.
Mexico last received an upgrade from S&P in October 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  