-- Mexico’s Peso Rallies After S&P Boosts Nation’s Rating Outlook
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2013-03-12T22:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/mexico-s-peso-rallies-after-s-p-boosts-nation-s-rating-outlook.html
Mexico ’s peso rose for a fourth day
in the longest winning streak this year after  Standard & Poor’s 
boosted the country’s credit outlook to positive, signaling its
rating may be raised.  S&P, which lowered Mexico to the second-lowest investment
grade rating of BBB in December 2009, said that a “track record
of cautious fiscal and monetary policy should sustain
macroeconomic stability and contribute to economic resiliency.”
The ratings company said the move reflects a greater than one in
three chance that the government will approve legal changes to
boost growth in Latin America’s second-biggest economy.  The peso appreciated 0.8 percent to 12.4451 per dollar at 3
p.m. in Mexico City, its strongest closing level since September
2011.  “This is very positive,” Salvador Orozco, deputy director
for money markets and exchange at Grupo Financiero Santander
Mexico SAB, said by phone. “The ratings agency is perceiving
that the government is moving fast with reforms and getting the
necessary political consensus.”  Mexico’s benchmark bond yields tumbled to a record after
the announcement. Yields on peso-denominated debt due in
December 2024 fell nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point,
to 4.92 percent, the lowest on a closing basis since they were
issued in 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market wants to be bullish Mexico,” Bret Rosen, a
 Latin America  strategist at Standard Chartered Bank, said by
telephone from  New York . “This gives it another reason to be.”  Finance Minister Luis Videgaray said today in a post on
Twitter that S&P’s change in outlook is “good news and
motivates us to keep working.”  Policy View  Central bank board member Manuel Sanchez said in a report
published yesterday on the monetary authority’s website that
it’s “necessary” that investors and banks take into account
that  interest rates  will rise sooner or later.  President Enrique Pena Nieto, who took office in December,
has pledged to push through a series of legal changes to boost
tax collection and open the state-controlled  energy industry  to
more private investment to boost economic expansion.  Mexico’s BBB rating from S&P is five levels below  Chile ’s
AA- rating. Moody’s Investors Service rates Mexico one level
higher at Baa1. Mexico last received an upgrade from S&P in
October 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  