-- Exxaro Stoppage at One of 6 Mines Halted by Strikes Ends
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-03-12T16:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/exxaro-strikes-spread-to-sixth-south-african-coal-mine.html
A strike at one of  Exxaro Resources
Ltd. (EXX) ’s six coal operations halted by work stoppages has ended,
 South Africa ’s second-biggest coal producer said.  “Last night a small number of workers at Tshikondeni mine
started  strike action ,” the Pretoria-based company said in an
e-mailed statement. “From this morning there is no one on
strike at Tshikondeni and production continues there as
normal.” The stoppage at Matla, Arnot, Grootegeluk, Leeuwpan
and Inyanda was ongoing, it said.  Output at the coal operation in the northernmost province
of Limpopo, stopped yesterday and today, National Union of
Mineworkers branch secretary Mxolisi Hoboyi said by phone . The
mine supplies hard coking coal to  ArcelorMittal (MT)  South Africa
Ltd.’s Vanderbijlpark plant, the continent’s biggest steelmaking
facility.  Exxaro, which has 11 production sites, supplies all the
power-station coal it mines to electricity utility Eskom
Holdings SOC Ltd., the Pretoria-based company said on its
website. The strikes at Arnot and Matla, which started on March
5, related to the non-payment of bonuses, Exxaro said in a
statement yesterday. Eskom relies on coal for 80 percent of
power generation.  The Arnot operation supplies the fuel to an Eskom power
station with installed capacity of 2,100 megawatts. Protesters
were preventing trucks loaded with coal at Arnot, near
Middelburg in the Mpumalanga province, from delivering the fuel
to the electricity plant and were burning tires, Hoboyi said.  Solidarity, another trade union with workers at Exxaro, has
no mandate from its members to join in the strikes, Louis
Pretorius, the national organizer for mining at the union, said
by e-mail today.  “We did however advise our members not to do any striking
colleagues’ work, as we are cognizant of the reasons for the
strikes,” he said. “What is disconcerting is that the coal
supply to Eskom power stations might  be interrupted if the
strikes continue.”  Exxaro fell 2.4 percent to 165.81 rand, the most since Dec.
7, by the close in Johannesburg. About 1.77 million shares, or
94 percent more than the daily average over the past three
months, changed hands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  