-- EZchip Gains as Investors Resist Bears: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-03-12T14:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/ezchip-gains-as-investors-resist-bears-israel-overnight.html
EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  rose the
most in four  months in Tel Aviv as analysts discounted
Kerrisdale Capital Management LLC’s outlook that the Israeli
chipmaker will be forced out of the market by 2018.  Shares of the Yokneam, Israel-based company advanced 5.1
percent, the most since Nov. 8, to 88.27 shekels, or the
equivalent of $23.99 at the close in Tel Aviv. The U.S. shares
fell 1.9 percent to $23.85 at 10:38 a.m. today in New York. The
shares led declines on the  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index. (ISRA25BN)   Kerrisdale Capital Management LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund with $180 million in assets, said yesterday it was betting
on further declines of EZchip as competition heightens, spurring
an early slide of as much as 8.4 percent to the lowest level
since August 2010. Shares erased declines as Feltl & Co. said it
would take at least three more years for rivals such as  Broadcom
Corp. (BRCM)  to take market share. Switching costs will also prevent
customer loss, Clal Finance Batucha Brokerage Ltd. said.  “He’s misunderstanding the competition,” Dov Rozenberg, a
Tel Aviv-based analyst with Clal, said by phone yesterday,
referring to Kerrisdale Capital. “EZchip’s customers are a lot
more secure considering their products are a lot more advanced,
which promises a revenue stream for the next few years.”  The New York traded shares yesterday advanced 2.2 percent
to $24.31, trimming this year’s retreat to 26 percent.  Lowest Valuation  “We stand by the long-term risks laid out in our report,”
Sahm Adrangi, Kerrisdale’s founder and fund manager, wrote in an
e-mail yesterday, responding to a comment request on Feltl’s
note by Bloomberg News. “The network processing unit market is
not large enough.”  Broadcom announced in September 2011 that it would acquire
Netlogic Microsystems Inc. for $3.7 billion to benefit from
surging demand for networking equipment. Its purchase was
completed in February 2012, according to a company filing.
 Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  bought Xelerated, which provides
network processing, in January 2012. These rivals will continue
to attack EZchip’s business, and at the very least, add pricing
pressure to the market, Adrangi said in the note.  EZchip retreated 25 percent through yesterday since Chief
Executive Officer Eli Fruchter told analysts on a Feb. 13
conference call that one of its customers, Shenzhen, China-based
Huawei Technologies Co., is developing its own processor,
reducing the need for the Israeli company’s technology.  Annual Decline  The company’s 2012  revenue fell  14 percent to $54.7
million, its first annual decline in at least 10 years. Sales
will probably reach $160 million by 2016, down from about $250
million previously expected, according to EZchip’s Feb. 13
earnings call and data compiled by Bloomberg.  An EZchip spokesman declined to be identified and said the
company could not comment on investor or analyst posts in an e-
mail yesterday. Marvell Spokesman Daniel Yoo said by e-mail that
his company had no comment. Broadcom did not reply to e-mails
and phone calls seeking comment.  Competitive threats posed by Broadcom are unlikely to
impact EZchip until 2016 at the earliest, Feltl wrote in
yesterday’s e-mailed note. Large customers, such as Cisco
Systems Inc. and  ZTE Corp. (000063) , have already committed to EZchip’s
products, making switching costs high in the near term, he said.  “The customers have already selected EZchip to use in
their products,”  Jeffrey Schreiner , a Minneapolis-based analyst
at Feltl, who has a buy rating on the shares, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “Given the growth opportunity
within EZchip and new market opportunities, EZchip is actually
discounted.”  EZchip plunged last week to trade at 19 times estimated
earnings, the lowest valuation since December 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  