-- Facebook Doubles Users of Custom Audiences Advertising Tool
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-03-12T22:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/facebook-s-customer-matching-advertising-tool-doubles-in-usage.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  has more than doubled
the number of advertisers relying on a new tool that lets
marketers tailor promotions based on data culled from outside
the social-networking site.  The so-called custom audiences feature, introduced in late
2012, lets companies target ads to Facebook members about whom
the marketers already have information, such as a person’s e-
mail address. The recent growth of the feature, which includes
privacy-protection tools, has come since January, Grady Burnett,
vice president of global marketing solutions at Facebook, said
today in an interview in  San Jose , California.  Facebook, owner of the world’s most popular social-
networking service, is rolling out more ad tools to better
monetize its growing base of more than 1 billion users. In the
past year, the company has begun offering mobile ads and opened
an advertising exchange that tailors promotions to users based
on their browsing history.  “The marketer has a very deep understanding in a lot of
cases of their target audience and of their customers,” Burnett
said. “It’s actually the ability to more granularly target what
you want.”  Separately, the company’s new search service, unveiled in
January, shows that users are focusing their queries on people,
photos and pages, he said. The new feature seeks to answer
search questions based on people’s social connections. Burnett
declined to give any specifics on adoption, saying it’s still
too soon after the roll-out.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park , California, declined 1.1
percent to $27.83 at the close in  New York . The shares have
fallen 27 percent since the company’s initial public offering
price of $38.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  