-- Merging T-Mobile With MetroPCS Wins Approval From U.S.
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-03-13T08:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/fcc-approves-merger-of-t-mobile-and-metropcs-agency-says.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s proposal to
combine its T-Mobile USA unit with smaller  MetroPCS
Communications Inc. (PCS)  won approval from U.S. competition and
telecommunications authorities.  Allowing the fourth- and fifth-largest U.S. wireless
carriers to combine will benefit American consumers as the
mobile market continues to strengthen, Federal Communications
Commission Chairman Julius Genachowski said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. Benefits include more high-speed wireless
service, the agency said in an order.  The combination is unlikely to harm consumers, and may help
T-Mobile become a stronger competitor, the Justice Department
said in an e-mailed news release announcing it had closed its
investigation into the deal.  “The FCC’s approval marks another significant milestone in
bringing our two companies together,” John Legere, president of
T-Mobile, said in an e-mailed statement. “We look forward to
completing the transaction.”  The proposed combination needs approval of shareholders who
are to meet on April 12, according to the statement. It urged
shareholders to throw out white proxy cards distributed by “a
dissident stockholder” and vote for the deal. Failure to vote
has the same effect as voting against the combination, according
to the statement.  Company Debt  MetroPCS dropped 24 cents, or 2.3 percent, in  New York 
trading yesterday to $10.26, 29 percent below its October high
as news of the deal broke. Deutsche Telekom advanced 0.1 percent
to 8.39 euros at 9:05 a.m. in Frankfurt.  Paulson & Co., the biggest investor in MetroPCS with 36.3
million, or 9.9 percent, of shares has said it wants to block
the deal. The combined company would hold too much debt, John Paulson, founder and majority owner, said in a Feb. 28 letter to
the MetroPCS and Deutsche Telekom boards.  Armel Leslie, a spokesman for Paulson & Co., didn’t reply
to an e-mail and voice mail seeking comment.  The deal aims to reinvigorate T-Mobile, the target of a
failed purchase attempt by second-largest U.S. wireless carrier
 AT&T Inc. (T)  in 2011. T-Mobile will take on subscribers and
capacity from MetroPCS to compete with AT&T, market leader
Verizon Wireless and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-largest U.S.
provider.  Deutsche Telekom, Germany’s largest telephone company, on
Oct. 3 announced the deal that will leave the Bonn-based company
with 74 percent of the new business after paying MetroPCS
shareholders $1.5 billion in cash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  