-- Fidelity Sees Consensus on Limiting of Money-Fund Rules
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-03-12T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/fidelity-sees-consensus-on-limiting-of-money-fund-rules.html
Fidelity Investments, the biggest
U.S. manager of money-market mutual funds, said there is growing
agreement among company leaders and regulators to limit any new
rules for the products to those eligible to buy corporate debt.  “We are beginning to see an emerging consensus developing
around the realization that Treasury, government and muni funds
do not need any further reform,” Nancy Prior, president of the
money-market business at Boston-based Fidelity, said today
during a speech at a conference in  Orlando .  Fidelity, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and BlackRock Inc. are among
companies that have urged regulators to exclude money-market
mutual funds that invest solely in government-backed or
municipal securities if they introduce new rules for the product
that houses $2.6 trillion in assets. The presidents of all 12
Federal Reserve regional banks also signed a letter on Feb. 12
that, while calling for tougher rules, said changes should
initially focus on so-called prime funds, or those that can buy
corporate debt.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is expected to
take up as early as this month a proposed overhaul being
prepared by the agency’s staff. Commissioners are under pressure
from the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a panel of
senior regulators charged under the Dodd-Frank Act with
identifying systemic financial risks, to re-examine proposals
they declined to take up in August.  Regulatory Debate  Regulators have debated how to make money funds safer since
the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary
Fund. Its failure, caused by losses on debt issued by Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., triggered a wider run on prime funds
that helped freeze global credit markets.  The SEC in 2010 introduced minimum liquidity levels, a
lower cap on average maturities and more disclosure. Former SEC
Chairman Mary Schapiro, saying the funds still posed a threat to
financial stability, had planned a more sweeping overhaul that
would have imposed a floating share value or required capital
reserves and withdrawal restrictions. The biggest money-fund
providers fought the proposals, claiming either option would
destroy the appeal of money funds.  Schapiro shelved her plan in August after a majority of SEC
commissioners said they wanted to see more study on the issue.
Schapiro left her post at the SEC in December. Mary Jo White,
President  Barack Obama ’s pick to chair the SEC, appeared at a
nominations hearing today before the Senate Banking Committee.  While leading fund companies continue to argue against the
proposals, some have acknowledged they are losing the battle to
stop new rules and have begun urging regulators to limit their
scope.  Changes Inevitable  “We recognize that some policymakers strongly believe that
further regulation is needed, and we appear headed down that
path,” Prior said in her speech at the Money Market Expo hosted
by research firm iMoneyNet.  Prior said the run on money funds in September 2008 was
narrowly focused, citing research conducted by the staff of the
SEC. Prime funds lost about $370 billion to withdrawals in the
week after Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy. Municipal funds
lost $26 billion. Funds that buy only debt backed by the U.S.
government took in $185 billion in deposits, she said.  “Based on the facts, data and empirical evidence, there
simply is no justification, or benefit, for further reforms” to
municipal and government funds, Prior said.  Prior said withdrawals from prime funds during that week
were concentrated on funds that cater mainly to institutional
clients. She said any new reforms should also exclude prime
funds that serve only retail investors, an argument that has
less agreement in the industry and hasn’t received public
support from regulators.  Industry Views  Vanguard Group Inc. and  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  have also
called for sparing prime retail funds from further reforms.
JPMorgan and BlackRock have urged regulators not to create
different rules for institutional and retail products. All four
companies are among the industry’s top six money-fund providers.  Prime funds held $1.47 trillion, or 56 percent of money
fund assets, as of March 5, according to Westborough,
Massachusetts-based iMoneyNet. Funds restricted to government-
backed securities held $880 billion and those that buy municipal
securities managed $279 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  