-- Five Points in Last Second Cost Basketball Bettor 40-Fold Profit
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-13T04:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/five-points-in-one-second-costs-basketball-bettor-40-fold-profit.html
The exuberance of Iona College’s
basketball team caused Chris Lawless to miss out on a $1,600
 profit  from a $40 wager.  Lawless, 53, bet on the Gaels as a four-point favorite over
 Manhattan College  as part of a six-game parlay two nights ago.
With victory seemingly in hand, he said he watched Iona’s eight-
point lead with one second remaining turn into a three-point
victory from his sofa in Las Vegas.  “It was such disbelief that I couldn’t speak,” he said.
“My heart just sank.”  Iona, which won the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference
title and secured the league’s automatic berth in the National
Collegiate Athletic Association tournament with the win, opened
a 60-52 lead with six seconds remaining.  Manhattan took what seemed to be the final shot, a three-
pointer that went in with 0.1 seconds left to bring the score to
60-55. Gaels players rushed the court to celebrate, and referees
called a technical foul because the game hadn’t ended. Manhattan
guard Donovan Kates hit both free throws to make it 60-57,
before Iona inbounded the ball as time expired.  “It’s hard to fathom a less likely outcome, a worse
beat,” RJ Bell, founder and chief executive of sports
handicapping website Pregame.com, said in a telephone interview.
“If you literally let your imagination be your limitation, how
could it be worse?”  Bell said it was the fourth most-bet game of the night,
with about 70 percent of those point-spread bets on Iona. He was
unable to say the total amount wagered, whether Lawless was the
biggest loser or if other bettors were left in the same position.  $7,000 Ahead  Lawless, who moved to  Las Vegas  from Houston five months
ago and is between jobs in the club business, said it wasn’t the
biggest loss in his 36 years of sports betting, but it was the
most painful. He posted a  picture  of his betting slip on Twitter.  He said he bets a “few hundred dollars” a day on mostly
basketball, football and baseball and he’s ahead about $7,000 in
sports betting in those five months.  Four of the games in Lawless’s parlay, placed at the  South
Point Hotel Casino & Spa , were over before the end of the Iona
game, he said. The fifth bet, for top-ranked Gonzaga to beat St.
Mary’s by more than six points, was all but assured as the
Bulldogs held a double-digit lead for almost the entire second
half.  He said the loss won’t prevent him from wagering again.  “I can’t let one little fluke loss deter me,” he said.
“Five points in the final 0.1 seconds? You’ll never see that
again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  