-- Forint Dives to Nine-Month Low on Rates, EU Democracy Showdown
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-03-12T17:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/forint-dives-to-nine-month-low-on-rates-eu-democracy-showdown.html
Hungary ’s forint dropped to a nine-
month low as falling inflation stoked prospects for interest-
rate cuts and lawmakers backed constitutional changes some
European Union members say undermine democracy.  The forint plunged the most among 31 major currencies after
the statistics office in Budapest said today that price growth
slowed more than analysts estimated to a seven-year low. Prime
Minister Viktor Orban, whose lawmakers yesterday backed a
constitutional amendment to limit judicial authority and this
month brought in a new central bank leadership, today urged
lower interest rates to boost the economy and called for
Hungarians to own at least half the banking system.  “The market finally understood that we could be talking
about a big risk, the total reshuffle of monetary policy,” Luis Costa, a strategist at Citigroup Inc., said by phone from  London 
today. That could weaken “confidence in the central bank as an
institution” focused on stabilizing inflation, he said.  The Hungarian currency depreciated 1.5 percent to 306.35
per euro by 5:32 p.m. in Budapest, extending its weakening this
month to 3.6 percent. It depreciated 1.5 percent to 235.12
against the dollar. The yield on 10-year sovereign notes rose
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to a five-week high
of 6.534 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hungary’s constitutional amendments “raise concerns with
respect to the principle of the rule of law,” European
Commission President Jose Barroso said in a joint statement from
Brussels with Thorbjoern Jagland, secretary general of the
Council of  Europe  yesterday.  German Relations  The legal changes “overshadow” Hungary’s relations with
 Germany  and the EU, the German government said in a statement
after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  met with Hungarian President
Janos Ader in Berlin today.  Orban reiterated calls today to move at least 50 percent of
Hungary’s banking system into Hungarian ownership and he
mentioned plans to create a state-owned financial entity based
on savings cooperatives which can boost lending.  Orban is “in effect threatening to nationalize part of the
Hungarian banking sector,” Lars Christensen, a Copenhagen-based
analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , wrote in an e-mailed report.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps rose 17 basis points to 338, the highest
intraday level since Oct. 10.  “We find it difficult to see how the Hungarian government
will fund itself on the international capital markets if the
government and central bank do not move very soon to calm market
fears,” Christensen wrote. “Unfortunately, we do not hold out
much hope of this happening and the risk therefore continues to
be skewed toward an even bigger forint sell-off.”  ‘Forint Sell-Off’  The inflation data, combined with the country’s deepening
recession, will probably prompt the National Bank of Hungary to
cut its benchmark interest rate half a point to 4.75 percent on
March 26, according to Tim Ash, a London-based chief economist
at Standard Bank Group Ltd.  “I expect the NBH to surprise with more aggressive rate
cuts now at the next monetary policy council meeting,” Ash
wrote in an e-mail today. “If the forint further weakens, I
think the NBH will intervene, selling foreign currencies.”  Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said yesterday the government
regards the depreciation as temporary and is ready to use its
clout if the weakness is sustained. Investors have been ditching
the currency this month on concern central bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy is concentrating power to reshape monetary policy.  Currency ‘Captives’  The central bank will probably cut rates by 50 basis points
in March, with an “outside chance” for 100 basis points, and
reach 3.5 percent by the end of the year, London-based analysts
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc wrote in an e-mailed report
today.  “Instead of opting for a gradual, smooth transition into
the new role,” Matolcsy “prefers a grand entrance, in our
view,” RBS analysts including Phoenix Kalen wrote in the note.  Orban said the country needs to fix its foreign currency
loan “problem” to free up exchange rate policy. The cabinet,
which has forced banks to take losses on foreign-currency
mortgages of households, is working on a plan this year to help
smaller companies convert their loans into forint, Orban said.  The government wants to weaken the forint to help boost
exports, and seeks to convert foreign-currency loans into forint
first to reduce risks from exchange rate swings, the RBS
strategists wrote in a research report on March 7.  “It’s in vain to have our own currency” if Hungary can’t
make use of its advantages because the foreign-currency loan
burden means “we are captives to an exchange rate policy,”
Orban said today.  The comments mean that “Orban backs the devaluation
policy” for the forint, Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  