-- Former U.S. President Bush’s Brother to Invest in Singapore Firm
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-03-12T03:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/former-u-s-president-bush-s-brother-to-invest-in-singapore-firm.html
Former U.S. President George W.
Bush’s brother will become the chairman of  SingXpress Land Ltd. (SINX) 
as he invests in the Singapore-based real estate developer. The
stock surged to an 11-month high.  Neil Bush is buying shares of the company as it raises
S$226.5 million through a rights offer and share sale, according
to a statement on the Singapore stock exchange yesterday. The
company will be renamed SingHaiyi Group Ltd.  The developer, which has ambitions to develop real estate
outside the city-state, said it may invest in distressed
properties and those facing foreclosures in the U.S. It plans to
tap on the business connections of Neil Bush, whose father was
also a former U.S. president.  “The board has great confidence in the abilities and
network of Neil Bush and we look forward to his contributions as
the company explores real estate investment opportunities” in
the U.S. and elsewhere, the company said in the statement.  SingXpress  shares  traded 24 percent higher at 2.1  Singapore 
cents as of 10:56 a.m. in Singapore trading, the highest in 11
months.  Neil Bush has been a business partner of Gordon Tang, who
controls the entity that’s the largest shareholder of
SingXpress, according to the statement. The transactions also
include offering 2.2 billion shares amounting to S$33 million to
buy a company that’s owned by Tang and Neil Bush.  Neil Bush is the third of five children of George H.W. Bush, who served as the U.S. president from 1989 to 1993, and
brother of George W. Bush, a two-term president from 2001 to
2009, according to a statement filed to the stock exchange.  “I hope to strengthen the investment opportunities between
Asia and the United States, using SingHaiyi and Singapore as a
springboard,” Neil Bush said in the statement. Calls to his
Austin office weren’t connected after regular business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  