-- Germany Eases Demands on Cyprus Aid, Merkel Ally Says
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-03-13T10:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/germany-eases-demands-on-cyprus-aid-merkel-ally-says.html
Cyprus will only be eligible for an
international bailout if it exhausts all other sources of
financial aid, a close party ally of German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said.  “There is a clear, agreed sequence of events for aid,”
Michael Meister, deputy parliamentary floor leader of Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Union party, said in an e-mail from Berlin.
“The first issue with any coordinated aid to Cyprus is systemic
relevance to the euro zone. Cyprus has to make a case for this
before we roll out other questions.”  If the Cypriot government meets the necessary criteria, the
so-called troika of the  European Central Bank , the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Commission has to present an
agreed draft of a memorandum for Cyprus, Meister said. “IMF
participation in the draft is crucially important to us,” he
said.  Bailout negotiations have lumbered along for nine months as
Cyprus held an election and German officials questioned whether
the country was big enough to matter to the fate of the euro.
Cyprus makes up barely 0.2 percent of the euro-zone economy.  Brussels Summit  Debate over the estimated 17.5 billion-euro ($23 billion)
package may come to a head at a Brussels summit on March 14,
when the new Cypriot president, Nicos Anastasiades, confronts
European leaders for the first time. Anastasiades ran with
Merkel’s endorsement and has been open to the idea of selling
state-owned companies, a key demand by creditors.  The troika’s memorandum must outline which financial and
economic measures are required for the Mediterranean island’s
public finances to be sustainable in the long run, taking into
account the role of  Russia  as a major investor, Meister said.  “First banks, and with them their shareholders, have to be
be ready to rescue the banks,” Meister said. “If that’s not
enough, the Cypriot state is next in line. Aid by euro partners
comes into play only if Cyprus is demonstrably overwhelmed by
the task.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  