-- German SPD Seeks Euro-Area Debt Pooling in Anti-Merkel Platform
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-03-12T16:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/german-spd-seeks-euro-area-debt-pooling-in-anti-merkel-platform.html
Germany ’s Social Democrats called
for pooled euro-area debt and an end to European Central Bank
sovereign-bond buying in the party’s campaign platform for Sept.
22 national elections.  The draft platform, published by the biggest German
opposition party in Berlin today, challenges Chancellor Angela Merkel by endorsing a joint redemption fund to help euro-area
countries reduce debt. Merkel hasn’t backed the proposal, made
by her council of economic advisers in 2011.  “We want to restore the freedom of action of all members
of the currency union with a European debt-redemption fund” so
that the ECB “is no longer forced to intervene in bond
market,” according to the SPD manifesto. Countries in the fund
would have to set “a binding debt-reduction and reform plan.”  Confronting Merkel’s refusal to pool euro-area debt is a
gamble for Social Democratic contendor  Peer Steinbrueck , the
finance minister in her first-term coalition. Merkel outranks
her challenger in approval ratings, indicating voters support
her austerity-first response to the debt crisis. Opinion polls
consistently show German voters reject assuming more of the cost
of combating the problems of their euro-area counterparts.  The SPD also calls for a ban on hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, “until all health and environmental risks have been
evaluated and ruled out;” a national minimum wage of 8.50 euros
($11.05); higher employer contributions to health care; and
curbs on commodities trading.  Voter Preferences  “Why shouldn’t the SPD position itself at left-of-center
if that’s in line with the preferences of many citizens?”
Steinbrueck told reporters in Berlin yesterday. A party
convention to approve the platform is scheduled April 14.  Merkel has rejected calls by other euro-area countries,
including France, Italy and Spain, to underwrite common euro-
area bonds. The redemption pact, as proposed by five academics
who make up the German government’s council of economic
advisers, would  pool existing sovereign debt  to try to lower
borrowing costs for euro nations worst hit by the crisis.  Steinbrueck, who endorsed euro bonds in late 2011 when the
crisis was festering, has dropped debt mutualization as a
talking point since the SPD elected him as candidate on Dec. 9.  If Germans could elect the chancellor directly, 62 percent
would back Merkel and 27 percent would choose Steinbrueck,
according to a Forschungsgruppe Wahlen poll for ZDF television
that said Merkel remains Germany’s most popular politician.  The March 5-7 poll of 1,345 people has a margin of error of
as many as 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  