-- German Stocks Decline for Second Day as Commerzbank Drops
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-03-12T17:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/german-stocks-fluctuate-near-five-year-high-rwe-falls.html
German stocks  fell, erasing earlier
gains, as  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  retreated after Manager Magazin said
the nation’s second-largest bank is planning to sell shares to
increase capital.  Commerzbank shares slid 3.1 percent for the biggest drop in
a month, erasing an earlier advance of more than 3 percent.
Fraport AG plunged the most in 10 months after forecasting net
income will decrease in 2013. Munich Re, the world’s largest
reinsurer, climbed 0.6 percent after saying profit this year
will be little changed.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  declined 0.2 percent to 7,966.12 at the close
of trading in Frankfurt, after swinging between gains and losses
at least 20 times. The gauge has still rallied 4.7 percent this
year, reaching a five-year high last week, amid optimism central
banks around the world will continue to support economic growth.
The broader HDAX Index slipped 0.1 percent today.  “Markets are in a wait-and-see mode,” Robert Halver, head
of capital markets research at Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt, said
in a telephone interview. “The investors and asset managers
that I talk to are not willing to make a big move into equities.
Investors are awaiting this week’s meeting of European finance
ministers, and are expecting a relaxation of austerity
measures.”  European Union leaders will meet for a March 14-15 summit
in Brussels to discuss financial-rescue terms for Cyprus,
including the island nation’s debt sustainability and possibly
imposing losses on depositors.  The volume of shares changing hands in shares listed on the
DAX was 29 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Commerzbank Climbs  Commerzbank dropped 3.1 percent to 1.40 euros, the biggest
decline since Feb. 4. The bank has hired UBS AG to help prepare
for a possible share sale, which could raise 700 million euros
($912 million) to 800 million euros, Manager Magazin reported on
its website, citing people familiar with the matter.  Nils Happich, a spokesman for Commerzbank in Frankfurt,
declined to comment on the report. A Frankfurt-based UBS
spokeswoman declined to comment.  Commerzbank had earlier rallied as much as 3.7 percent.
Blackstone Group LP, Lone Star Funds and Starwood Capital Group
LLC have expressed interest in buying all or part of the bank’s
Eurohypo unit in the U.K., the Financial Times reported, citing
unidentified people familiar with the situation. All the
companies declined to comment, according to the newspaper.  Fraport Drops  Fraport, the owner of Frankfurt airport, slumped 4 percent
to 43.24 euros, the biggest drop since May 14. The company said
2012 net income slipped to 238 million euros from 240 million
euros the previous year, and  forecast  profit will decline again
in 2013.  “The given outlook is slightly disappointing,” Jochen Rothenbacher, an analyst at Equinet Bank, wrote in a report.  Separately, Fraport canceled as many as 300 flights today
and closed Frankfurt airport temporarily as a result of snow.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest automaker, slipped 1.7
percent to 165.95 euros for the second-biggest decline among
companies listed in the DAX.  Munich Re increased 0.6 percent to 145.55 euros. The
reinsurer said profit this year will be little changed at about
3 billion euros as prices remain stable and interest rates weigh
on investment income.  “Even though the consolidation of state finances and high
unemployment will result in slower economic momentum in many
industrialized countries, we remain optimistic for our
business,” Nikolaus von Bomhard, chief executive officer of the
Munich-based company, said in a statement.  Deutsche Boerse AG gained 0.7 percent to 50.32 euros as the
operator of the Frankfurt bourse said India’s Bombay Stock
Exchange will use the trading technology of Eurex, its
derivatives exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  