-- Gold Caps Longest Rally in Six Months Amid Easing Speculation
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-03-12T18:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/gold-little-changed-as-etp-holdings-extend-drop-amid-recovery.html
Gold capped the longest rally in
six months as signs of slowing growth in Europe increased
speculation that central banks will expand stimulus measures,
boosting demand for precious metals as a store of value.  U.K. industrial production unexpectedly fell in January
from a month earlier, government data showed today. In February,
Bank of England policy makers said they “stand ready” to
increase stimulus action to support the recovery. The European
Central Bank will maintain its accommodative monetary-policy
stance “for as long as necessary,” Jens Weidmann, an ECB
council member and head of Germany’s Bundesbank, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today.  “Speculation about new announcements on easing in Europe
is supporting gold,” Phil Streible, a senior commodity broker
at R.J. O’Brien & Associates, said in a telephone interview.  Gold futures for April delivery climbed 0.9 percent to
settle at $1,591.70 an ounce at 1:40 p.m. on the Comex in New
York, the fourth straight gain, and the longest rally since Aug.
21.  After 12 straight annual increases, gold has fallen 5
percent this year as mounting confidence that economies are
recovering cut haven demand. Prices as much as doubled after
central banks, led by the Federal Reserve, started buying more
than $3.5 trillion of debt from December 2008 to restore growth.  Holdings in bullion-backed exchange-traded products fell to
2,479.9 metric tons yesterday, the lowest since September, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Credit Suisse Group AG and Barclays
Plc say the 12-year rally will peak in 2013 and billionaire
 George Soros  reduced his stake in the biggest ETP by 55 percent
in the last quarter.  Silver futures for May delivery rose 1.1 percent to $29.171
an ounce, the biggest advance for a most-active contract since
Feb. 25.  On the New York Mercantile Exchange, platinum futures for
April delivery fell 0.4 percent to $1,595 an ounce.  Palladium futures for June delivery retreated 0.5 percent
to $775.50 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  