-- Google Benefits as Priceline Outspends Expedia on Web Ads: Tech
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-03-12T20:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/google-benefits-as-priceline-outspends-expedia-on-web-ads-tech.html
  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)  has boosted
annual ad spending to more than $1 billion for the first time,
extending its lead over  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  in the hotel-booking market
and stepping up a rivalry that’s benefiting  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Even as social-networking services  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and
Twitter Inc. capture a widening share of the Web-advertising
market, the top online travel agents still choose to place most
of their ads on search sites, where consumers can quickly
compare prices and complete a transaction in a matter of clicks.  “One of the secrets to Priceline’s success has been its
ability to manage search campaigns,”  Mark Mahaney , an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets  in San Francisco, said in an interview.
“There is a major new marketing war going on between Priceline
and Expedia, and Google is the beneficiary.”  Priceline, fueled by its Amsterdam-based Booking.com unit,
has more than tripled spending on  Internet advertising  to $1.27
billion in the past three years. About 90 percent of that goes
to Google, according to Mahaney. The surge in search spending
coupled with rapid global expansion has helped Priceline grow
faster than Expedia, which is racing to catch its larger rival.  Mahaney recommends buying Priceline and Google shares and
rates Expedia a hold. Based on his estimate, Priceline spent
about $1.14 billion with Google in 2012, accounting for 2.6
percent of the search company’s ad revenue. While Google doesn’t
disclose spending by specific customers, the company said on its
fourth-quarter earnings call that the top 25 advertisers are
paying more than $150 million a year, on average.  Expedia’s Budget  Unlike Priceline, Expedia doesn’t break out online and
offline ad spending. The company’s total ad budget jumped 40
percent in the past three years to $870 million in 2012. Expedia
spent 22 percent of last year’s revenue on advertising, compared
with 25 percent for Priceline.  Both companies have focused on hotels in recent years as
consolidation and dwindling margins in the  airline industry 
crimped profits for online agents. Priceline  bought  Booking.com
in 2005 and Bangkok-based Agoda.com two years later. Expedia’s
growth has been spurred in part by its Hotels.com unit.  They’re chasing sales in the U.S. and European online hotel
bookings market. Revenue from the two regions combined will jump
16 percent to $79 billion next year from $68 billion in 2012,
according to researcher PhoCusWright Inc.  Priceline Favorite  Investors have favored Priceline. The  stock  jumped more
than sixfold in the past five years for the second-best
performance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. With a market
capitalization of about $36 billion, Priceline is four times as
valuable as Expedia, which has more than tripled.  Priceline slipped less than 1 percent to $722.04 at the
close in  New York . Expedia fell a penny to $64.97.  A  Google search  for the word “hotel” or “accommodation”
and any major city or tourist destination reveals the extent of
Priceline’s investments in search-engine marketing, or SEM. As
of yesterday, Priceline’s Booking.com is the first paid result
if that search included of the five biggest cities in Western
 Europe . In the U.S., Booking.com or Expedia show up first in
searches on New York,  San Francisco , Miami,  Las Vegas  and Disney
World. Booking.com or Agoda is first when searching Asian cities
Tokyo, Seoul, Beijing and Jakarta.  Brian Ek, a spokesman for Priceline, said the company
doesn’t comment on its search strategies, because they’re
“proprietary for competitive reasons.” Kristy Nicholas, a
spokeswoman for Expedia, said search is one of many important
channels used to lure consumers to its various sites.  Web Domination  Within search, travel-related inquiries rose one spot last
year to become the second-most-lucrative topic, surpassing
shopping, according to  WordStream Inc. , a developer of search-
marketing software. Finance kept the top spot.  Other big travel advertisers include  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP) , the
travel-research company spun out of Expedia, and  Orbitz
Worldwide Inc. (OWW)  Priceline trumps them all in terms of online ad
spending. The Norwalk, Connecticut-based company spent 97
percent of its ad budget online, even though its name is
associated with 15 years of television commercials featuring
actor  William Shatner . The company isn’t abandoning offline ads.
Booking started running television commercials in January to
build its U.S. brand.  The bulk of the dollars will still flow to Google, said
 David Steinberg , chief executive officer of XL Marketing Corp.,
a New York-based digital-marketing company.  Google Threat  With  $43.7 billion  in ad revenue last year, Google
accounted for almost half of the $88.6 billion global digital-
advertising  market , according to ZenithOptimedia.  “From an ad perspective in the travel space, there’s no
place to get closer to the transaction than Google,” Steinberg
said. “You’re literally at the transaction.”  Just as Google is attracting more spending from online
travel agents, it’s also becoming a bigger competitor. Google
introduced a service in 2011 called Hotel Finder that lets users
search for accommodations on Google, in some cases bypassing Web
providers. Google also  purchased  ITA Software Inc. in 2011,
letting it provide flight prices and itineraries.  “We see opportunities to improve the search experience for
users searching for travel information on Google,” the  Mountain
View , California-based company said in an e-mailed statement.
“We work to continue having productive partnerships with as
many online travel companies and industry players as possible.”  Kayak, Trivago  In their annual reports, both Expedia and Priceline list
Google as a competitor and spell out as a risk the search
engine’s ability to promote its own products in results.  Recognizing that threat, Priceline agreed last year to
acquire travel search engine Kayak Software Corp. for $1.8
billion. Expedia, based in Bellevue, Washington, agreed to buy a
majority stake in Germany’s Trivago for about $630 million, and
in January led a $30 million investment in startup travel-search
site Room 77 Inc.  Brian Sharples, a Kayak board member, is mimicking
Priceline’s search strategy at  HomeAway Inc. (AWAY) , the vacation-
rental company he co-founded in 2005. Sharples said his Austin,
Texas-based company has been spending about $10 million in
offline advertising, including a controversial  Super Bowl
commercial  in 2011, and is bringing all of that online.  HomeAway will dedicate more than $20 million to Google ads
this year, representing at least 6 percent of its revenue, based
on the company’s forecast. Booking.com’s ability to convert Web
searchers into customers was the inspiration, Sharples said.  “It’s worked brilliantly for them,” he said. “They spent
so much on SEM that they were all over everyone’s computers all
over Europe and they built a brand in the process.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  