-- Google to Pay $7 Million to End State Street View Claims
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-13T11:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/google-to-pay-7-million-to-end-state-street-view-claims.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  agreed to pay
$7 million to settle a multistate probe over the collection of
data from unsecured wireless networks across the U.S. by
vehicles taking images for the company’s Street View product.  The Internet search company signed the agreement with 38
states and the  District of Columbia  to resolve consumer
protection and privacy claims, said the  Connecticut Attorney
General’s Office , which led the eight-state committee that
investigated the matter and negotiated the company’s compliance.  “Consumers have a reasonable expectation of privacy,”
Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen said in a statement.
“This agreement recognizes those rights and ensures that Google
will not use similar tactics in the future to collect personal
information without permission from unsuspecting consumers.”  The agreement requires  Mountain View , California-based
Google to educate employees about the privacy or confidentiality
of user data and sponsor a nationwide public-service campaign to
teach customers about securing wireless networks and protecting
their personal information, according to the statement.  Google also agreed to continue to secure and eventually
destroy data collected and stored by its Street View vehicles in
the U.S. between 2008 and March 2010, according to Jepsen’s
statement. The antenna-equipped vehicles collected network
identification information along with data being transmitted
over unsecured wireless networks as they were driving by.  E-Mail Communications  The data may have included e-mail communications,
confidential or private information that was being transmitted
to or from the user at the time the vehicles were passing by and
the locations of requested Web pages, according to Jepsen’s
statement.  Google said the information about network identification
was collected for use in future location services and that the
company’s executives were unaware the vehicles were gathering
other data, according to Jepsen’s statement.  The company has disabled or removed equipment and software
that allowed the vehicles to collect information about wireless
networks and data being sent over them, and agreed not to use
the vehicles to gather additional data without permission.  Google, operator of the world’s largest search engine, has
been grappling with scrutiny by government officials around the
world over how it handles private information. The Federal
Communications Commission fined Google $25,000 last year for not
cooperating with an investigation into the company’s collection
of the data.  Google said in May 2010 that it would stop using Wi-Fi
information for Street View, which displays pictures of streets
on  Google Maps . At the time, the company said that it had
collected the information by mistake.  Google fell 0.9 percent yesterday to $827.61 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. The shares have climbed 17 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  State  Supreme Court 
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  