-- Greenland Opposition Wins Amid Calls for Resource Taxation
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-03-13T09:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/greenland-vote-focuses-on-offshore-access-to-natural-resources.html
Greenlanders voted to oust the
government, handing power to an opposition that has called for
higher taxes and more oversight over mining companies and oil
explorers seeking to tap the Arctic island’s natural resources.  The opposition Social Democrat Siumut party won 42.8
percent of the vote, up from 26.5 percent in 2009, according to
results on the government election  website . It will now seek to
form a coalition after winning 14 of the 31 seats in the Nuuk
home rule parliament. The ruling socialist Inuit Ataqatigiit
party got 34.4 percent, down from 43.7 percent, as 74 percent of
the island’s 40,588 registered voters cast their ballot.  “There was dissatisfaction with the current style of
leadership,” Siumut leader Aleqa Hammond said after yesterday’s
victory, according to newspaper Sermitsiaq. “There has been a
great lack of transparency when it comes to natural resource
projects, problems for the fishing industry and a lack of
construction outside of Nuuk.”  Hammond has campaigned to take royalties from foreign
companies as soon as they start operations on the island while
current IA Prime Minister Kuupik Vandersee Kleist has favored
waiting to tax mining companies until exploration becomes
profitable.  Natural Wealth  The world’s most scarcely populated nation is trying to
attract funds to help harness its energy and mineral wealth as
interest from  China  and  Australia  reignites its campaign to end
almost 200 years of Danish colonial rule. Greenland, which gets
about half its exports from shrimp, is also propped up by about
$600 million in annual subsidies from the government in
Copenhagen.  A vote for Kleist was a vote for mining projects to go
ahead “and build a whole new type of economy,” said Maria
Ackren, an associate professor in political science at the
University of Greenland in Nuuk. “IA voters realize developing
natural resources must be done together with  Denmark .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  