-- Libya Wealth Fund Seeking SocGen Explanation on $1 Billion Loss
-- B y   B r i g i t t e   S c h e f f e r
-- 2013-03-12T12:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/libya-wealth-fund-seeking-socgen-explanation-on-1-billion-loss.html
Libya, whose sovereign wealth fund
declined by at least $4 billion in value over the past four
years, said it’s demanding an explanation from  Societe Generale
SA (GLE)  on how it lost about $1 billion on derivative contracts.  “We have been in contact a number of times but have not
received a satisfactory answer,” Mohsen Derregia, the outgoing
chairman and chief executive officer of the fund, said in an
interview from Tripoli. “We are pursuing this matter further.”  Libya, which ousted dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  last year,
said Feb. 28 it’s also considering legal action against Goldman
Sachs Group over derivatives losses. The value of the  Libyan
Investment Authority ’s assets fell to about $57 billion from
about $61 billion in 2008 and may be worth less than that
because there hasn’t been a recent audit, according to Derregia.  “Losses between 15 and 16 percent are considered
acceptable, but our shares devalued by up to 80 percent. We want
to know what happened,” Derregia said.  Libya’s Economic and Social Development fund, which has
about $12 billion in assets, is withdrawing investments from
French banks including  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and SocGen, Chairman
Mahmoud Badi said at a conference in Dubai in December.  Libya Prime Minister Ali Zaidan said Derregia should step
aside and allow his successor to take over after he was fired.
Derregia is refusing to leave his post saying his dismissal
didn’t follow legal procedures.  A spokeswoman for  Societe Generale  in Paris, who declined
to be named under corporate policy, wasn’t immediately available
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brigitte Scheffer in Dubai at 
 bscheffer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  