-- ICE Talks With Regulators on Euronext IPO Near End, CEO Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-03-13T01:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/ice-talks-with-regulators-on-euronext-spinoff-near-end-ceo-says.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) ’s
talks with regulators about spinning off four European bourses
owned by  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  are nearing completion, according to
Chief Executive Officer Jeff Sprecher.  Discussions with domestic regulators about the venues in
Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels and Lisbon are “coming quickly to a
conclusion,” Sprecher said in a presentation at the annual
Futures Industry Association conference today in  Boca Raton ,
 Florida . The Atlanta-based market operator must still submit the
$8.2 billion deal to acquire NYSE Euronext to antitrust
officials in  Europe , he said.  An initial public offering of the Euronext stock markets
would include related equity derivatives and commodities futures
traded on the exchanges, Sprecher said. NYSE Euronext  acquired 
the bourses when NYSE Group Inc., owner of the New York Stock
Exchange, combined with Euronext NV in 2007.  The group of four exchanges should be a “standalone, very
continental business” to benefit European  capital markets ,
Sprecher told attendees at the conference. “It can be the first
mover in what I think should be continuing consolidation or
joint ventures or some kind of federation or loose amalgamation
of exchanges.”  Buying NYSE Euronext, which owns the London-based Liffe
futures venue, will bring interest-rate futures to ICE, which
has roots in the commodities and over-the-counter energy
markets, and will boost its business, Sprecher said.  Asset Classes  “Owning NYSE Euronext brings us into financial markets in
a much bigger way,” he said. The company wants to operate in
new asset classes and would like to have a “multi-asset-class
clearing infrastructure,” he said.  Sprecher, who has been critical of U.S. equities market
structure and the fragmentation of trading across more than 50
venues including exchanges, electronic communications networks
and broker-run dark pools, said he’s hoping for the “pendulum
to come back” toward a more unified market.  The company won’t decide on cost-cutting measures or
changes at the technologies business at NYSE Euronext until it
receives European regulatory approval for the deal, Sprecher
said. Personnel decisions will also be made then, he said.  “The  New York  Stock Exchange is an unbelievable
business,” he told reporters at the conference. “There’s a
really good business there that’s been hard to see inside the
way it’s currently organized. Hopefully as a bigger group we’ll
be able to put more transparency on it and organize it in a way
that you’ll be able to see the value of that franchise, which I
think is high.”  More IPOs  ICE may seek to use NYSE, which lists the most companies
globally by market capitalization, to encourage more firms to go
public following the financial crisis that started in 2007,
Sprecher said. NYSE can help change the view of technology
companies that may be reluctant to bring their firms public, he
said. ICE went public in 2005 on the Big Board.  “I got to push the button and ring the bell,” Sprecher
said. “It was one of the highlights of my career. To go from
nothing to standing there and taking a company public was an
unbelievable life experience, unbelievably powerful for a
company. It gave us a currency.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  