-- Life Takeover at Lowest Valuation Beats No Deal: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-03-13T20:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/life-takeover-at-lowest-valuation-beats-no-deal-real-m-a.html
A takeover of  Life Technologies
Corp. (LIFE)  at one of the lowest multiples on record would still be
better for shareholders than no deal at all.  The $10.7 billion life-sciences company has drawn interest
from a buyout group, which includes  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and
 Carlyle Group LP (CG) , as well as competitors, people with knowledge
of the matter said last week. Life should sell for at least $65
a share, said Robert W. Baird & Co. While that price would imply
the industry’s second-lowest deal valuation on record, it still
tops analysts’ $53.24  average estimate  for Life’s stock as a
standalone company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Life began exploring a sale last year and has traded for a
discount to its peers as investors question the growth prospects
for its gene-sequencing business, which makes technology used to
provide a blueprint of a person’s DNA. The company also sells
products that scientists use in labs for cancer and stem cell
research. While private-equity suitors may not be able to
justify a price higher than $65 a share, another health-care
company such as  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO)  could pay up to
about $70, International Strategy & Investment Group LLC said.  “Life’s stock has underperformed, so something needs to be
done to unlock the value,”  Ross Muken , a New York-based analyst
with ISI, said in a telephone interview. “If they don’t think
they can fix the sequencing business, then a deal would be
viewed as being fairly attractive. Without all of this, the
stock would be in the low to mid $50s right now.”  Suzanne Hatcher, a spokeswoman for Life, declined to
comment on specific bidders or prices.  Weighing Options  Life, based in Carlsbad,  California , began exploring its
options last year when the stock price was in the low $40 range,
Chief Executive Officer Gregory Lucier told analysts last month.
Life said in January that it had hired Deutsche Bank AG and
Moelis & Co. to assist in the process.  The decision to weigh a sale came as Life’s valuation
trailed its peers. The shares, which have  jumped  more than 14
percent in two months on takeover bets, still trade for 14 times
this year’s  estimated earnings , lower than almost 90 percent of
life-science equipment makers larger than $5 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The median price-earnings ratio is
18, and Life’s closest rival  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  fetches 33 times
earnings, the data show.  “Life trades at a discount on most valuation multiples,”
 Dan Leonard , a New York-based analyst for Leerink Swann LLC,
said in a phone interview. “There is uncertainty in the
investment community about the growth rate of the company.”  Slower Growth  Life and Illumina make machines that provide a full
transcript of a person’s DNA, which can be used to diagnose rare
diseases, identify the risk for a genetic condition, or match
cancer treatments to patients’ tumors.  Life has boosted  sales  by just 5.1 percent on average in
each of the last three years versus a 20 percent increase at San
Diego-based Illumina, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Since Life’s SOLiD gene sequencers failed to outsell
competing products, investors now have doubts about its next-
generation technology called Ion Torrent, a desktop-sized
machine designed to be less expensive and simpler to use. Life
gained the technology in its $375 million purchase of Ion
Torrent Systems Inc. in 2010.  SOLiD “left a bad taste in investors’ mouths,” Jonathan Groberg, a New York-based analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd.,
said in a phone interview. “Now there’s a little bit of a
disconnect between investor sentiment and the reality of the
business itself.”  ‘Doable’ Deal  That’s giving buyers the chance to get a maker of brands
that are well-known by scientists on the cheap, according to
Jeff Elliott, an analyst with Baird in  Chicago . He said the
company could get between $65 and $70 a share in a takeover,
compared with $62.88 yesterday.  Today, Life shares fell 0.9 percent to $62.31.  “That is very doable,” Elliott said in a phone interview.
“Life has some very attractive franchises. They are a leader in
sequencing. It has nice, long-term growth potential. At $65,
it’s a home run.”  At that price, a buyer would be getting Life for just 11
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization -- the second-lowest multiple ever paid in a life-
sciences deal worth $5 billion or more, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Only Beckman Coulter Inc. was bought for a
cheaper valuation at 8.7 times Ebitda, the data show.  Private-equity suitors also would get a company that throws
off more  free cash  relative to its stock price than more than
half of its competitors, the data show.  Predictable Cash  “That’s what private-equity companies tend to look for --
very predictable cash flows,” Leerink’s Leonard said.  A buyout group comprising Blackstone, Carlyle, TPG Capital
and Temasek Holdings Pte is exploring an offer for Life, people
with knowledge of the matter told  Bloomberg News  last week.
While it’s attracted interest from some so-called strategic
suitors, Lucier, the CEO, favors a buyout because he wants to
keep the reins, said two of the people, who asked not to be
named because the negotiations are private.  KKR & Co. also is considering teaming up with other
private-equity firms to make a bid, said people familiar with
the matter.  Thermo Fisher , the world’s second-largest maker of
health-care equipment, and  Danaher Corp. (DHR)  have also considered
making bids for the company, said one of these people.  Return Requirements  Representatives for all of the private-equity firms
declined to comment. Ron O’Brien, a spokesman for Waltham,
Massachusetts-based Thermo Fisher, and Matt McGrew of
Washington-based Danaher also wouldn’t comment on the companies’
potential interest in Life.  While private-equity firms can’t be too aggressive in terms
of price because of their internal rate of return requirements,
an industry suitor like Thermo Fisher could pay in the high $60s
to low $70s, said ISI’s Muken.  Thermo Fisher sells laboratory tools such as glass
microscope slides and beakers to many of the same customers as
Life. Acquiring Life would “create huge cost synergies over a
number of years” and “an unparalleled company in the life-
sciences space,” Macquarie’s Groberg said.  Groberg said Life’s biggest  shareholders  may balk at any
bids below $70 a share because they know it’s a “very sticky,
high- margin  business” and that another leadership team may be
able to better execute on Life’s goals.  Still, buying Life at $65 wouldn’t just be attractive for
the acquirer. It’s more than shareholders would get if Life were
to remain a standalone company.  Private Appeal  Before the deal talks were reported in January, analysts
had been projecting that on average the stock would climb to
just $53.24 in the next 12 months,  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg show. A bid of $65 or more would represent at least a
26 percent premium to Life’s 20-day average stock price prior to
reports of the deal discussions.  Going private also would give Lucier a chance to invest
more heavily in the sequencing business without worrying about
quarterly earnings and to accelerate the transition into
diagnostics, said Baird’s Elliott.  “They’re investing a lot of money in sequencing and that
has been a dilutive business,” he said. “It’s the right move
in the longer term, but in the short term it’s a drag on
earnings. Taking the company private would allow you to
accelerate that push without scrutiny from the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  