-- High-Frequency Trades Need Measured Rules, ASIC’s Medcraft Says
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-03-12T14:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/high-frequency-trades-need-measured-rules-asic-s-medcraft-says.html
High-frequency trading in
Australia’s equity markets requires a “measured response,”
said the country’s securities watchdog before the release next
week of a study on regulation in the industry.  “There’s no silver bullet,” Greg Medcraft, the 56-year-
old chairman of the Australian Securities and Investments
Commission, said in an interview March 11. “You don’t ban it,
you manage it and create the right risk framework around it. We
want to have a measured response.”  Australia, Hong Kong and Singapore are considering the
extent to which trading strategies that rely on speedy placement
of bids and offers should be regulated amid concern that they
can be used to manipulate prices. Germany was the first
developed market to legislate on the practice, which can profit
from tiny price discrepancies.  ASIC, which last year set up two  taskforces  to examine the
impact of high-frequency trading and dark pools on Australian
equity markets, will release the results of its findings on
March 18, Medcraft said. Dark pools are private venues that
don’t display prices until after trades take place.  Medcraft has cited  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s $457 million
loss in August and a May 2010 incident that briefly wiped almost
1,000 points from the Dow Jones Industrial Average as examples
of the need for controls. In December, he expressed concern that
high-speed trades provided “phantom liquidity” that could be
quickly removed from stock markets.  ‘Kill Switches’  Following consultation from ASIC, the Australian government
said Nov. 20 that all automated trading programs must have
“kill switches” by June 2014 to immediately disable them if
they malfunction.  “We said in the first report last year, let’s make sure
the algorithms are tested annually,” said Medcraft. “Let’s
make sure they have appropriate filters so they don’t blow us
up. We’re going to focus on predatory algos and make sure that
they’re not manipulating the market.”  Financial Services Minister Bill Shorten said in November
that rules governing operators of dark pools may need to be
revised to reflect market developments. No decision has been
made about what licensing approach should be taken, he said.  “On dark pools, generally if it looks like a market and
acts like a market, it needs to have proper market regulation,”
said Medcraft.  Price Improvement  New rules already announced that will come into effect in
May will require trades done in dark pools to achieve a better
price than public venues by at least one tick size or occur at
the midpoint between bids and offers.  ASX Ltd.’s main exchange handled 67 percent of trades of
shares listed on the  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  in February while its
dark pool, Centre Point, handled 3.7 percent, according to
Fidessa Group Plc. Off exchange trades, which include broker-
arranged block trades and dark pool trades, accounted for 18
percent of the volume. ASX is Australia’s main bourse operator.  In the U.S., a Rosenblatt Securities Inc. report tracking
19 venues showed dark pools accounted for a record 14.3 percent
of U.S. equity volume in January.  Hong Kong’s regulator has issued about 18 compliance
letters to electronic trading firms, mostly due to computer
algorithms that have led to price or volume disruptions, Mark Steward, executive director in the enforcement division of the
Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, said in August. The
results of a Hong Kong market consultation on electronic trading
are still pending.  The practice of using computers to buy and sell securities
in fractions of a second will be regulated for the first time in
Germany after the lower house approved a bill requiring firms
that use the electronic strategies to register with banking
authorities.  “What will be interesting is our observations about algos,
that essentially this is the new normal,” Medcraft said.
“Supervision is important to make sure we’re watching out for
market manipulation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  