-- Ikos’s Ambrosiadou Denies Being Wealthy Yacht Owner at Trial
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-03-12T14:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/ikos-s-ambrosiadou-denies-being-wealthy-yacht-owner-at-trial.html
Elena Ambrosiadou, the co-founder
of hedge fund Ikos Asset Management Ltd. involved in a dispute
with her estranged husband over its trading software, rejected
reports that she is one of Britain’s wealthiest women as she
gave evidence in the trial.  “I didn’t have any personal wealth” in 2006 and still
don’t, the 55-year-old told a London court. Press reports about
her riches, including claims she owns the largest sailing yacht
in the world, are wrong and “very unfortunate,” she said.
“I’m not the owner of the Maltese Falcon,” she said, although
she is part of the team that looks after the vessel.  Martin Coward sued his wife’s company over who owns the
copyright for Ikos’s trading technology. Ikos, which manages
about $1.36 billion in assets, filed a counterclaim accusing
Coward of stealing its software. It is one of more than 40
lawsuits pitting the couple against each other in at least four
countries.  Richard Hillgrove, Coward’s spokesman, and Phil Hall,
Ambrosiadou’s spokesman, declined to comment.  Their marriage turned “toxic,” Coward’s lawyer Michael Bloch said at the start of the trial last week, arguing that his
client, not Ambrosiadou, was the architect of the firm’s
success.  Ambrosiadou, who was born in  Greece  and educated in
 England , said today she was responsible for Ikos’s business
while Coward was part of a trading team and “delivered what the
rest of the people engaged in that work were doing.”  “I was looking after the entirety of the operation,” she
told the court. Ambrosiadou said her business assets were held
in a family trust, and that she also co-owned a house in
Steyning, England, with Coward.  The case is: Martin John Coward v Phaestos Limited & Ors.,
U.K.  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division , case no.
HC10C02788  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  