-- Military Medal for Drone Warfare to Be Reviewed by Hagel
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-03-12T19:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/military-medal-for-drone-warfare-to-be-reviewed-by-hagel.html
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel has
ordered the Pentagon to examine whether a new medal for drone
operators and cyberwarriors should be downgraded so it doesn’t
outrank traditional awards for heroism and combat wounds.  The rank of the Distinguished Warfare Medal has set off
protests from lawmakers and veterans’ groups since it was
created last month by Hagel’s predecessor, Leon Panetta. Leaders
of the Senate Armed Services Committee said the medal shouldn’t
rank higher than those for action on the battlefield, such as
the Bronze Star and Purple Heart.  “In light of concerns about the medal’s place in the order
of precedence, Secretary Hagel will work with the senior
leadership to review the order of precedence and associated
matters,” Pentagon spokesman George Little said today at a news
conference.  The Pentagon created the medal to recognize the changing
nature of 21-century warfare, in which unmanned aircraft and
cyberwarfare are playing increasingly important roles. The
Defense Department said it wanted to honor troops with special
training and skills that “directly and precisely impact
military operations at times far removed from the battlefield,”
according to a statement last month.  The review Hagel ordered, to be led by Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, will be
completed in 30 days, according to Little, who said Panetta was
notified of the decision.  Production Stopped  “Production of the medal has stopped,” Little said. “No
one has been nominated for this medal. No one is in training for
this medal. So we do have time to make a final decision.”  House and Senate members have already introduced bills that
would reduce the new medal’s ranking.  “We know that overruling a predecessor’s decision puts
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel into an uncomfortable position,
but it is the absolute right thing to do for the troops,” said
John Hamilton, head of the two-million-member Veterans of
Foreign Wars, in a written statement last week. “Medals that
can only be earned in combat must mean more than new medals
awarded in the rear.”  Hagel, a former Republican senator from  Nebraska , received
two Purple Hearts for his service as an Army sergeant in
 Vietnam .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  