-- Illinois Settlement Shows Worst Pension’s True Cost: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-03-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/illinois-settlement-shows-worst-pension-s-true-cost-muni-credit.html
Illinois  taxpayers are learning the
price of having the worst-funded U.S. state pension system.  The state settled yesterday with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission over charges it misled investors from 2005
to 2009 about shortfalls in retirement funds. Yet buyers in the
$3.7 trillion municipal  bond market  are still penalizing
Illinois.  Investors demand  1.3 percentage points  of extra yield to
own 10-year debt of the state and its localities, almost seven
times the average in 2005, when the SEC said the inadequate
disclosure began. Illinois had its  credit rating  cut by  Standard
& Poor’s  in January, leaving it the lowest of any state, after
lawmakers failed to bolster its pension or whittle down a
backlog of $9 billion of unpaid bills.  “Where other states are making progress, they’re not,”
said Daniel Solender, who helps manage $19.5 billion of munis at
Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . “It definitely
makes you more hesitant to increase positions on the bonds.”  Illinois joins local governments nationwide facing growing
retiree burdens after the 18-month recession that ended in 2009,
including  Chicago , its largest city. States and localities are
grappling with more than $2 trillion in unfunded public-employee
retirement costs, Moody’s Investors Service said in July.  Settlement Precedent  Illinois failed to disclose how much it was underfunding
its plans as it sold $2.2 billion in bonds, the SEC said. The
fifth-most-populous state became the second to settle over such
charges. New Jersey resolved a similar case in 2010, as did  San
Diego  in 2006.  Illinois neither admitted nor denied the SEC’s findings in
the settlement, which didn’t include fines, according to a
statement from Governor  Pat Quinn ’s Office of Management and
Budget. Abdon Pallasch, an assistant budget director, said the
administration would have no further comment beyond the release.  “It goes back to an era, which wasn’t that long ago, where
there just wasn’t as much attention placed on pension
obligations,” said Howard Cure, director of muni research in
New York at Evercore Wealth Management LLC, which oversees $4.5
billion. “You’re not talking about small, infrequent issuers.”  Payment Cuts  Illinois didn’t adequately disclose cuts in annual payments
to its retirement funds, the agency said. Its pension debts
swelled as it borrowed and used accounting techniques that
delayed for years steps to shore up the systems, the agency
said.  “The state knew that the plan was unmanageable, but failed
to disclose the significant risks to those who bought its
bonds,” Elaine Greenberg, Philadelphia-based head of the SEC’s
municipal and pension enforcement unit, said in an interview.
“We hope that our heightened scrutiny of pension disclosure
will continue to serve as a warning to other state and municipal
issuers.”  Chicago is an example of how difficult it is for
municipalities to slow the growth of pension burdens.  The Chicago Police Sergeants’ Association yesterday
rejected a deal that Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  called a “framework”
for pension change. The administration has warned that
retirement plans will consume 22 percent of the city’s budget --
about $1.2 billion -- within four years, unless the state
legislature restructures them.  Penalty Reminder  For Illinois, its most recent bond sale served as a
reminder that it was paying up for past practices.  The state sold general obligations in March 2005, with a
10-year portion priced to yield 0.13 percentage point more than
 AAA munis , data compiled by Bloomberg show. In the state’s debt
issue in September, the interest rate on the 10-year segment was
1.19 percentage points above top-grades.  Illinois and its municipalities pay the highest  interest
rate  among the 19 states tracked by Bloomberg.  “We will all be paying for the mishandling of the pension
funds for many years to come,” Illinois Comptroller Judy Baar Topinka said in an e-mailed statement. “It is critical that we
learn from the state’s mistakes and never again play games with
our pension systems.”  S&P downgraded Illinois Jan. 25 to A-, six steps below AAA,
after lawmakers were unable to produce a plan to shore up the
pensions, which have just 39 percent of assets needed to cover
projected obligations. No other U.S. state has a ratio that low.  Delayed Sale  The state of about 13 million delayed a $500 million
general-obligation offering in January five days after the
downgrade, citing unfavorable market conditions.  Guy Davidson, who helps manage $32 billion as director of
munis at AllianceBernstein LP in  New York , allocates about 2
percent of the holdings to debt from Illinois. That’s below the
4.6 percent share that the state and its issuers account for in
a Barclays Plc muni index.  “They have some very real and significant challenges that
they have to address, and we hope soon,” Davidson said. “We
would not take a large weighting in the portfolio, but you are
getting paid enough to take a small position.”  Market Update  In trading yesterday,  yields  on 30-year benchmark munis
rose 0.09 percentage point to 3.06 percent, the highest since
August, according to Bloomberg Valuation data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  