-- IMF Staff Recommends Extending Fund’s Emergency Resources Pool
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-03-12T17:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/imf-staff-recommends-extending-fund-s-emergency-resources-pool.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
should prolong an emergency lending pool activated after the
global financial crisis because permanent resources alone are
insufficient to respond to another bout of instability,
according to the fund’s staff.  Expiration of the supplemental financing at the end of the
month would leave the fund with lending capacity of about $150
billion compared with $338 billion now, the staff wrote in a
report dated March 1 and obtained by  Bloomberg News . The note
was prepared for the IMF board and for contributors of the so-
called  New Arrangements to Borrow  that are weighing whether to
extend the pool for another six months.  “Such a decline in the fund’s lending capacity would not
be consistent with ongoing global risks and could further
intensify market instability,” according to the staff note.
“This implies that maintaining the fund’s lending capacity can
in itself be a tool of crisis prevention.”  IMF spokesman Ismaila Dieng declined to comment.  The Group of 20 industrial and developing nations in April
2009 agreed to enhance the IMF’s ability to support the global
economy. The U.S. and Japan are the two largest contributors to
the NAB facility, with emerging markets such as China and  Brazil 
also pitching in.  While the IMF last year received pledges for an additional
temporary $462 billion to help protect the world from the
European turmoil, the money is not yet available for use. A 2010
agreement to double the fund’s permanent resources, or quotas,
is also not yet in effect pending approval by the  U.S. Congress .  Weaker Outlook  The Washington-based IMF in January cut its global growth
forecasts and projected a second year of contraction in the euro
area as progress in battling Europe’s debt crisis fails to
produce an economic recovery. It has since warned that
predictions for the U.S. would also be lowered next month to
reflect spending cuts that started to take effect in March.  Renewed tensions in the euro region and uncertainties over
the U.S. budget outlook are among near-term risks to global
growth, the staff said in the note. High debt in some advanced
countries and financial imbalances in other regions are also
medium-term threats, according to the report.  “Against this background, a new shock could quickly
unsettle markets, create adverse spillovers, and undermine or
even derail the recovery,” staff wrote.  Under a low-probability scenario that applies shocks to 48
 emerging markets  and nine advanced economies, the report
estimated demand for IMF financing reaching $1.2 trillion. The
report cited  Egypt ,  Ukraine , Tunisia, Cyprus,  Jamaica  and  Sri
Lanka  as countries that may draw on IMF funds in coming months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  