-- IMF’s Lipton Urges More Banking Clean-Up to Sustain Global Rally
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-03-13T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/imf-s-lipton-urges-officials-to-redouble-bank-oversight-reform.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
No. 2 official urged policy makers to clean up banks and
strengthen oversight of their financial systems or risk stalling
a recent rally in global markets.  With the world economy still subdued, further repair of
banks’ balance sheets is necessary, which may require more
capital for some lenders and closure for others,  David Lipton ,
the fund’s first deputy managing director, said in a speech in
Washington yesterday. He also called for unwinding of excessive
public and private debt.  “If these medium-term challenges are not adequately
addressed, the recent rally in global markets may prove
unsustainable,” Lipton said, according to his prepared remarks.
“And the still fragile confidence in banks and the wider
financial system could turn into fear, which could trigger a
renewed sense of crisis.”  The MSCI  World Index (MXWO)  of stocks has risen about 7 percent
this year as equity markets in the U.S.,  Japan  and  Europe 
rallied.  Still, the Washington-based IMF earlier this year cut its
global growth forecast for 2013. Recently it said it would lower
its prediction for the U.S., where $85 billion in federal
government spending cuts have started to take effect.  Speaking to members of the Chartered Financial Analyst
Society of  Washington , Lipton said the global financial system
is not yet safe, even if it is in a better shape than five years
ago.  ‘Enough Holes’  “Think of it as a huge safety net that has been mended and
strengthened, but still has enough holes that we cannot yet feel
protected,” he said.  He criticized “delays and dilutions” in a reform agenda
agreed upon by the Group of 20 economies, calling “a particular
worry” the delay in implementation of Basel III international
capital standards in the European Union and the U.S.  Lipton said less progress has been made in the  derivatives
market . “National authorities have not met recent deadlines to
implement these reforms, reflecting the legal complexities of
this opaque industry,” he said.  Another area Lipton called “particularly troubling to many
global stakeholders” is a lack of movement to a single set of
financial reporting standards that the G-20 called for. He cited
diverging views of the  International Accounting Standards Board 
and  Financial Accounting Standards Board  on the “credit loss
recognition models based on expected rather than incurred losses
is a major setback to the convergence process.  ‘‘That will leave European and U.S. banks estimating loan
loss provisions with different methodologies,’’ he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  