-- IMF Calls for ‘Decisive’ Overhaul in Azerbaijan Economic Policy
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-03-12T13:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/imf-calls-for-decisive-overhaul-in-azerbaijan-economic-policy.html
The International Monetary Fund is
urging Azerbaijan to embark on a “decisive” revamp of its
economic policy to boost competitiveness of the largest oil
producer in the former Soviet Union after Russia and Kazakhstan.  “This will require decisive changes in the current course
of economic policies, focused on improving the efficiency of
public spending while reducing its size, strengthening the
financial sector and improving the business climate,” Raja
Almarzoqi, the IMF’s mission chief for Azerbaijan, said in a
statement distributed to reporters today in the capital, Baku.  The changes are needed to put the economy on a sustainable
path to growth by 2020, according to the Washington-based
lender. Companies led by London-based  BP Plc (BP/)  have invested more
than $35 billion in oil and natural gas fields of Azerbaijan, a
Caspian Sea nation of more than 9 million people,  The IMF predicts public spending will help the non-oil
economy expand almost 9 percent this year, bringing growth of
gross domestic product to 4.5 percent, up from 2.2 percent in
2012, Almarzoqi said. Government outlays will probably fan
inflation, with consumer prices set to rise 7 percent by year-
end from 1.1 percent in 2012, he said.  “The 2013 budget is expansionary and creates overheating
risks,” Almarzoqi said. “Plans for continued large deficits in
subsequent years, if implemented, would increase Azerbaijan’s
oil dependence and raise concerns about fiscal sustainability
and efficiency.”  Azerbaijan’s oil output dropped for a second year to 43
million tons in 2012. The country increased output of marketable
natural gas last year 5.4 percent to 17 billion cubic meters.  The IMF is recommending that the Azeri government take
steps to narrow the budget’s non-oil deficit, the shortfall
excluding revenue from the energy industry, as crude output
stagnates.  “Public investment can be cut without hurting growth if
projects are prioritized and their selection and appraisal is
done in line with best international practice,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  