-- In China, Dead Pigs With Morning Tea Is Nothing New
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-03-12T21:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/in-china-dead-pigs-with-morning-tea-is-nothing-new.html
There are worse things than
learning, as the residents of  Shanghai did this week , that the
source of the water for your morning shower and tea was
contaminated by at least  5,916 dead pigs . You might find out
that lamb you ate for dinner  was duck  soaked in toxic chemicals.
That those dumplings you had as a late-night snack were  fried in
oil recovered from a gutter  running beside an open sewer. Or
worse yet, that the baby formula you’ve fed your newborn is
laced with a  plasticizer that damages kidneys .  For Shanghai’s 20 million residents, and indeed for China’s
entire population, these recurring food-safety nightmares form
the backdrop to their daily lives. Social media platforms are
home to never-ending discussions of food scandals. State- and
Communist Party-owned newspapers report the incidents with
diligence and frequency. After a while it becomes a disgusting
blur, the culinary equivalent of the ever-present smog that has
rendered blue skies rare events.  So when, on March 5,  the story broke  that a few dozen dead
pigs had appeared under a bridge in  Shanghai , only local papers
treated it as news. When later that week  900 pigs were found
floating in the Huangpu River , the supply of much of Shanghai’s
water, it was news -- but only occasionally of the front-page
variety. After all, the Huangpu River is a working river, with
all that entails in developing Asia: pollution, garbage and the
occasional floating carcass (dead birds and rats aren’t unusual;
dogs and cats, more so).  It was only on March 10, as reporters started offering
larger numbers of pigs retrieved from the river -- ticking up
from  1,200  to  3,323  to  5,916  in three days -- and  grotesque
photos circulated on microblogs , that the residents of Shanghai
and the national media began to pay attention.  Beyond the obvious, Shanghai residents had a few additional
reasons to be concerned. First, one of the areas from which the
pigs were alleged to have originated was also  rumored to have
suffered from an epidemic that killed off as many as 20,000 pigs
in January and February . However, nobody had ever heard of the
problem until the corpses started flowing -- a fact that’s
 terrifying regardless  of whether the epidemic rumors are true.
Second, at least  some of the pigs pulled from the Huangpu River
were found to be infected  by a nasty pig-specific virus (that
 apparently  doesn’t infect humans). And third, government
officials are doing their best to downplay and deflect blame for
the incident, a probable sign that something is amiss.  On March 12, an unnamed official associated with the
Agricultural Department in Zhejiang province, a likely source
for the pigs,  was quoted  in Caijing, a financial news
publication, saying that the 3,000 pigs froze to death. “Pig
cold resistance is low,” the unnamed official said. “And an
increase in the number of deaths is normal.” Elsewhere in state-
owned media, the director of the same department  explained that 
farmers in Zhejiang are “in the habit” of dumping dead pigs in
rivers.  None of this was received well online. Thousands of Chinese
microbloggers have been compelled to point out in various ways
that temperatures in Zhejiang province rarely dip below
freezing. Xue Manzi, a Beijing-based entrepreneur and angel
investor with more than 10 million followers on Sina Weibo,
 China ’s most popular Twitter-like microblog, spoke for many when
he  tweeted :  “Currently, Zhejiang province’s response is ‘they froze to
death.’ How could well over 10,000 pigs in one village freeze to
death in January? And more than 8,000 freeze to death in
February? Why did the pigs freeze to death only in Jiaxing? Only
Jiaxing pigs are fond of catching colds? Pigs in other places
don’t catch colds? . . . Is it so difficult to get the officials
to apologize? Forever avoiding blame.”  Nonetheless, there isn’t much online anger at the incident,
and certainly not the level of horror that would occur if 5,916
dead pigs were found flowing down, say, the Mississippi River.
The jaded residents of Shanghai -- at least as represented by
their microblogging compatriots -- seem to be taking the episode
rather well, with most inclined to find a kind of self-effacing
humor in the carnage.  Take the Sina Weibo account of  Xinmin Weekly , a popular,
Communist Party-owned Shanghai newsmagazine. On March 12, it
 tweeted  the following joke, apparently designed to make light of
 the insatiable Chinese appetite for pork :  “‘There’s good news and there’s bad news. The bad news is
that there are only dead pigs to eat.’  ‘What’s the good news?’  ‘There are lots of dead pigs!’”  At times, the self-effacement becomes cutting social
criticism. The farmers who dumped the pigs were Chinese, a point
made by Tan Dun, a Chinese composer, when  he tweeted  via Sina
Weibo on March 12:  “Who could imagine more than 1,200 head dead pigs floating
down the Huangpu River, some rotting, some containing a pig
virus. . . . Who on Earth is threatening our lives and survival?
Ourselves!”  Still, gallows-style, “What next?” humor tends to dominate
the millions of “ dead pig ” tweets that have appeared over the
last two days. Many missives either implicitly or directly
criticized the government’s regulatory efforts. One of the most
popular of these is a satirical tweet from the perspective of a
(mock) coroner in Jiaxing. It comes in many variations, making
its ultimate provenance hard to determine.  This version was  tweeted  March 12 by a Shanghai stock
market investor. It includes a reference to  recent incidents 
where Chinese citizens were rebuffed in their efforts to buy
milk powder in Hong Kong. (Chinese milk powder is widely thought
to be contaminated.) Each of the listed causes of death is a
common concern in Shanghai, and far more serious to the average
resident than a bunch of dead, infected pigs floating on the
river:  “The Jiaxing coroner’s investigation into the death of
thousands of pigs found: 1) resentful of the antibiotics in
their feed, the pigs collectively committed suicide by leaping
into the Huangpu River; 2) unwilling to drink the contaminated
water offered by their owners, they accidentally drowned while
drinking Huangpu River water . . . 4) unable to consume powdered
milk from Hong Kong, they went on a hunger strike and died; 5)
they suffocated trying not to breathe in the smog . . . PS:
Zhejiang Provincial Department of Agriculture: Huangpu River
dead pigs mostly froze to death.”  Shanghai’s dead pigs won’t be the last food-safety scandal
to disgust its jaded residents. But the incident may be
remembered for longer than those that preceded it. A dead pig
that you don’t eat, after all, is a much more enjoyable punch
line than  the contaminated pig  you ate for dinner.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Adam Minter at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Zara Kessler at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 