-- India’s Rupee Strengthens on Factory Output, Exports Optimism
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-03-12T04:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/india-s-rupee-strengthens-on-factory-output-exports-optimism.html
India ’s rupee strengthened, after
dropping the most in a week yesterday, on signs exports and
factory output in Asia’s third-largest economy are improving.  The  trade deficit  narrowed to $14.9 billion in February
from about $20 billion the previous month, official data showed
yesterday, as  exports  rose 4.2 percent from a year earlier, the
fastest pace in 12 months.  Industrial production  increased 1.3
percent in January after contracting in the previous two months,
according to the median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg survey
before a report due around 11 a.m. in New Delhi.  The rupee advanced 0.2 percent to 54.32 per dollar as of
9:58 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
dropped 0.2 percent yesterday, the biggest loss since March 1.
One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the
exchange rate used to price options, fell six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 9.01 percent.  “Fundamentally, we are still positive on the rupee,” said
Thio Chin Loo, a senior analyst in  Singapore  at BNP Paribas SA.
The currency will strengthen to 53 per dollar by the end of this
year, she predicts.  The rupee’s advance today comes as global investors sold
the greenback to benefit from the exchange rate after the Dollar
Index rose to a seven-month high on March 8, according to
Edelweiss Financial Advisors Ltd. While better trade data may
instill faith in a recovery, the currency is unlikely to gain
much in the current environment of increasing confidence in the
dollar, Emmanuel Ng, a strategist at Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. in Singapore, wrote in a report today.  Technical Charts  Bank of America Merrill Lynch recommends investors buy the
dollar against the rupee on a move toward 53.28, as technical
charts indicate the greenback may resume a long-term trend of
appreciation toward 60. In the medium-term, the rupee may
depreciate past 55.75 a dollar as long as it trades weaker than
54, Edelweiss predicts.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.38 per
dollar, compared with 55.45 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.32 versus 55.33. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  