-- India 10-Year Bond Yield Rises Most in March on Industrial Data
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-03-12T12:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/india-bond-yields-at-this-month-s-low-as-rbi-may-purchase-debt.html
The yield on  India ’s 10-year
government bonds rose the most this month as industrial output
beat estimates, spurring speculation the central bank will
refrain from cutting  interest rates  next week.  Production at factories, utilities and mines climbed 2.4
percent in January from a year earlier after a revised 0.5
percent drop in December, an official report showed today. The
median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 1.3
percent increase. The  Reserve Bank  of India, which last cut the
repurchase  rate  by 25 basis points to 7.75 percent in January,
will review its policy on March 19.  “Since the output was more than expected, there is a
question mark on whether there will be a rate cut this time,”
said  Anoop Verma , a fixed-income trader at  Development Credit
Bank Ltd. (DEVB)  in Mumbai. “That has driven up the yields.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes maturing in June 2022
rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 7.89
percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. That’s the biggest increase since Feb. 28.  Verma predicted the benchmark bond yield will rise above 8
percent unless interest rates are cut, noting the government
plans record debt sales in the fiscal year starting April 1.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said last week
he’s optimistic borrowing costs will be lowered after data on
Feb. 28 showed Asia’s third-largest economy  grew  4.5 percent
from a year earlier in the final three months of 2012, the least
in almost four years.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose three basis
points to 7.60 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  