-- Tinkler Sought to Buy Blackwood to Avoid Testimony
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-03-12T07:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/tinkler-sought-to-buy-blackwood-to-avoid-testimony.html
Nathan Tinkler , the biggest
shareholder in  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , proposed buying  Blackwood
Corp. (BWD)  to avoid having to testify in court about his finances, an
Australian judge was told.  New South Wales Superior Court Justice Paul Brereton today
dismissed Tinkler’s bid to avoid taking the stand, ruling
against his claim that the liquidator of his former company
Mulsanne Resources Pty was abusing the court process by using
the examination as leverage in negotiations. The judge’s
decision allows the liquidator’s lawyers to question Tinkler
beginning on March 14.  Blackwood sought to wind up Tinkler’s Mulsanne in November
after it failed to pay A$28.4 million ($29.2 million) it owed
for shares it agreed to buy in the coal developer. Tinkler
didn’t contest the order in court at the time, which was granted
by New South  Wales  Supreme Court Registrar Nicholas Flaskas.  Blackwood’s board turned down a takeover offer from KN Coal
Pty, a Singapore-based company controlled by Tinkler, on March
7. The directors said they would consider a modified proposal if
Tinkler provided a A$15 million guarantee, Alec Leopold,
Tinkler’s lawyer, said at a hearing in Sydney today.  ‘Examined Publically’  Tinkler approached Blackwood saying “please, do a deal,”
Robert Newlinds, lawyer for the Mulsanne liquidator Ferrier
Hodgson, said in court today. “I don’t want to be examined
publically.”  Ferrier Hodgson sought to force Tinkler to testify in court
about his finances, wanting to know, according to Newlinds, how
Mulsanne could have agreed to pay A$28.4 million for the
Blackwood shares without having any funding in place.  Tinkler failed to show up for the court-ordered testimony
on March 8.  The  liquidator’s move to compel Tinkler to testify
“doesn’t begin to approach abuse of process,” Brereton said in
his ruling today, delivered from the bench following a 4 1/2-
hour hearing.  Tinkler was listed as one of three directors of Mulsanne in
a December Australian Securities and Investments Commission
[CONFIRM] company extract. Mulsanne was created in April, and
agreed in May to invest A$28.4 million for a 34 percent stake in
Blackwood, which is controlled by commodity trader Noble Group
Ltd. and is developing coal mines in Queensland state.  The ruling putting Mulsanne in liquidation exposed Tinkler,
an electrician-turned-mining investor, personally to creditors,
said Marina Nehme, a senior lecturer at University of Western
Sydney’s School of Law. The Australian Tax Office sought to
liquidate eight Tinkler companies in December for unpaid taxes.
Tinkler has settled most of those claims since.  Aircraft Sale  Tinkler’s Dassault Falcon 900C jet and AgustaWestland A109S
helicopter were seized after TGHA Aviation Pty was placed in
receivership on Nov. 23 at the request of GE Commercial
Australasia Pty, Nathan Landrey, a partner at the receiver
Taylor Woodings in Sydney said.  The aircraft are being advertised for sale, according to
the  Wall Street Journal .  Tinkler’s business journey began when he sold his house in
2006 to help buy the A$30 million Middlemount coal lease in
Queensland before selling it a year later to Macarthur Coal Ltd.
for about A$465 million in cash and shares. More recently, his
wealth and personal indebtedness has been the subject of
speculation.  Whitehaven said in August Tinkler abandoned his plan to
take over the coal miner for A$5.3 billion without giving a
reason. The company’s  stock  has fallen 56 percent in the past
year, as coal prices declined.  The case is In the matter of Mulsanne Resources Pty.
2012/00296966.  Supreme Court  of New South Wales (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  