-- Intesa Posts Quarterly Loss on Writedowns, Interest Income
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-03-12T17:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/intesa-posts-fourth-quarter-loss-on-writedowns-interest-income.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s
second-biggest bank, reported a smaller-than-expected fourth-
quarter loss after writing down its stake in  Telecom Italia SpA. (TIT)   The  net loss  of 83 million euros ($108 million) narrowed
from a year earlier, when goodwill impairments produced a record
loss of 10.1 billion euros, the Milan-based lender said today.
That was smaller than the 121.6 million-euro loss estimated by
10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Enrico Tommaso Cucchiani is seeking
to reduce costs and reorganize Intesa’s branch network to
strengthen finances and boost capital after Italy’s longest
recession in 20 years hurt profitability and worsened the bank’s
credit quality.  The results were “reassuring” with earnings boosted by
trading gains, analysts at broker Equita Sim SpA in Milan said
in an e-mailed report to clients after the earnings were
published. “The good news is better evolution of stock of
impaired loans.”  Intesa  shares rose  as much as 1.8 percent to 1.278 euros
and climbed 0.4 percent to 1.26 euros at the close of trading in
Milan, valuing the company at 20.5 billion euros.   The Bloomberg
Banks and Financial Services Index  fell 0.5 percent.  Loan-loss provisions declined an annual 27 percent to 1.46
billion euros in the fourth quarter. Intesa didn’t make
significant adjustments to provisions for bad loans after the
Bank of  Italy ’s review conducted last year, Cucchiani said on a
conference call with analysts.  Loan Provisions  Italy’s central bank has increased inspections and urged
banks to set aside more money for bad loans and increase the
coverage ratio for non-performing loans. The recommendations
followed a review of provisioning levels at about 20 lenders.  “Our provisioning level is quite conservative and in most
cases higher than requested by the central bank,” Cucchiani
said. “We have received a green light from the central bank,
and we came out with a clean bill of health. I would not be
surprised if the situation was different for other players.”  Intesa left its dividend unchanged at 5 cents a share and
expects the 2013 payout to at least match that level, the bank
said in a presentation to analysts.  Credit Costs  Intesa reported 107 million euros of writedowns on its
stake in Telco, the holding company that controls Telecom
Italia.  In 2013, the bank will focus on “re-pricing actions” and
cost-cutting to counter the negative market environment and
limit the impact of pay increases, Cucchiani said. “The cost of
credit will remain at a high level,” he said.  Revenue in the quarter rose 5 percent to 4.49 billion
euros, as lower net interest income was offset by higher income
from fees and trading, which included a gain of 110 million
euros from a securities’ swap.  The bank’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of
financial strength, rose to 11.2 percent at the end of December
from 11.1 percent three months earlier.  Intesa, which borrowed 36 billion euros during the  European
Central Bank ’s long-term refinancing operations and invested
part of that amount in  government bonds , increased Italian bond
holdings to 90 billion euros on Dec. 30 from 80 billion euros
three months earlier. Sovereign debt rose 16 percent to 57
billion euros in the period, it said.  Cucchiani said the bank has already refinanced its 9
billion-euro wholesale bond expiring this year.  Hungary ‘Nightmare’  Cucchiani said Intesa will restructure operations in
 Hungary  “quite aggressively.”  “Hungary, which used to be very good for financial
services, has now turned into a sort of nightmare,” he said.  Intesa’s Hungarian unit CIB Bank, the fifth-largest lender
in the country, posted a loss of 279 million euros in the fourth
quarter, hurt by 269 million euros of bad loans, the company
said.  “We made a very significant acknowledgment of the
situation in the fourth quarter and it continues to be a
challenging environment,” Cucchiani said.  Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  plans to reduce
foreign ownership of the nation’s banks, risking a deepening
clash with the European Union. Hungary will boost local
ownership of the banking industry to at least 50 percent, Orban
said in Budapest today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  