-- Ireland 10-Year Bond Sale Said to Draw $15 Billion Bids
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2013-03-13T10:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/ireland-plans-first-sale-of-10-year-bonds-since-2010-bailout.html
Ireland drew at least 12 billion
euros of bids ($15.6 billion) for its first sale of 10-year
bonds since the nation’s 2010 bailout, according to people
familiar with the matter.  The bond was priced to yield 245 basis points over mid-
swaps, a fixed-market benchmark, according to a separate person
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified, as they
are not authorized to speak about it. The nation planned to sell
as much as 3 billion euros of debt today.  “This represents an important milestone in the country’s
re-engagement with the bond market,” said Philip O’Sullivan, an
economist at Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers. “Today’s launch of
new 10-year issuance could have important ramifications for
Ireland’s credit rating and its plans for a successful exit from
the bailout program at year-end.”  Ireland is seeking to become the first nation to leave a
bailout program since the euro debt crisis started more than
three years ago. After an accord to ease the cost of the
nation’s bank bailout and with European leaders considering
giving the nation more time to pay bailout debts, Prime Minister
Enda Kenny’s government is on track to regain the country’s
economic sovereignty at the end of the year.  The National Treasury Management Agency said yesterday it
hired  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Davy Stockbrokers, HSBC
Holdings Plc, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Nomura Holdings Inc.
as joint lead-managers for the transaction.  The  NTMA  last issued 10-year bonds in 2010, before the
near-collapse of the country’s banking system prompted investors
to shun the nation’s debt. In November of that year, the Irish
government asked for a 67.5 billion-euro international rescue in
a three-year program.  Yields Fall  The yield on the Irish 5 percent bond maturing in October
2020 has fallen from a euro-era high of more than 14 percent in
July 2011 to 3.68 percent. The yield rose two basis points from
yesterday. The new bonds are likely to be priced to yield 4.25
percent to 4.30 percent, NCB said.  Irish governments have introduced spending cuts and tax
increases equal to 12 percent of gross domestic product since
the property boom imploded in 2008. The government forecasts the
economy will grow about 1.5 percent this year.  The turnaround in Ireland’s fortunes has gained momentum
since the government last month came up with a plan to lessen
the burden of the former Anglo Irish Bank Corp.’s bailout. Under
an accord which the European Central Bank agreed not to block,
the state will swap so-called promissory notes used to rescue
the failed lender with 25 billion euros of long-term government
bonds with maturities of up to 40 years.  More Time  In addition, European finance ministers are considering
giving Ireland more time to pay back loans stemming from the
2010 bailout.  Standard & Poor’s on Feb. 11 raised its outlook on
Ireland’s BBB+ credit rating to stable from negative. Moody’s
Investors Service Inc. said March 7 an agreement among European
finance ministers to consider extending maturities on the Irish
bailout is “very significant for Ireland” on top of the Anglo
Irish deal.  Moody’s rates Ireland at Ba1, the company’s highest non-
investment rating, with a negative outlook. Ireland in January
sold 2.5 billion euros in bonds maturing in October 2017. The
government sold 4.2 billion euros of new debt in July, including
extra issuance of its October 2020 bonds.  “Ireland could actually leave the EU-IMF program at any
time it wants to,” Holger Schmieding, chief economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London , said by phone. “What Ireland needs is
now is not extra money. It doesn’t even need longer maturities
for its outstanding official loans. What it needs is the
implicit promise by the ECB to support countries that leave
official programs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Brussels at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Zega in London at 
 rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  