-- Is Paul Ryan an Inflation Nutter?
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   &   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2013-03-12T22:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/is-paul-ryan-an-inflation-nutter-.html
Paul Ryan believes the U.S. has a
looming inflation problem. The reality is that Ryan has an
economic credibility problem.  The latest  iteration  of the Wisconsin representative’s
budget for the U.S. government spells out what he sees as a
major threat to the economy: “Pressed for cash, the government
will take the easy way out: It will crank up the printing
presses. The final stage of this intergenerational theft will be
the debasement of our currency. Government will cheat us of our
just rewards. Our finances will collapse. The economy will
stall.”  It’s a stark forecast, in which the driving force is
“debasement of the currency,” which is simply a rhetorically
loaded term for inflation. Ryan’s views on the economy are
premised on his forecast that the country is headed for a
central-bank induced monetary disaster.  This sort of fear-mongering sells well among gold bugs,
doomsday preppers and other Tea Party types. But it rests on
very shaky ground. So shaky, in fact, that either Ryan is being
dishonest or he’s placed himself on the Spam-hoarding radical
fringe, far outside any standard approach to monetary economics.  For instance, the latest  projections  from the Federal
Reserve’s policy-setting Open Market Committee suggest that
long-run inflation will average 2 percent, consistent with its
stated long-run target. Of course, in Ryan’s view, the Fed would
say that, just to hide its intentions ahead of an inflationary
surprise.  Nefarious Agenda  What do professional economists say? The Survey of
Professional Forecasters summarizes the projections of private-
sector economists, academics and econometric models, lacking any
nefarious agenda that one may ascribe to the Fed. In the latest
 survey , the median projection among these economists is for
inflation to average 2 percent over the next decade. Even the
most alarmist forecast sees inflation averaging no more than 3
percent. These 46 economists draw on a wide variety of views
about the economy, yet Ryan is more extreme than all them -- by
a substantial margin.  In other guises, Ryan is a believer in markets, another
place where smart people try to forecast inflation. Consider the
market for government bonds. The difference between the interest
rates on two kinds of bonds -- 10-year government notes and
otherwise-similar obligations whose payoff is indexed to
inflation -- can be interpreted as a market-based inflation
forecast. The current  prices  of these bonds suggest inflation is
expected to average only 2.5 percent over the next decade. And
this probably overstates things, because traders are often
willing to pay more for inflation-linked bonds to insure against
bad outcomes.  Why is everyone so much less worried about inflation than
Ryan? Let’s reflect on the underlying forces that drive prices.
Textbook economics relies on the Phillips curve, which suggests
that inflation accelerates when the economy starts to overheat,
or when inflation expectations get ignited. But expectations
remain muted. With unemployment at a stubbornly high 7.7 percent
(and in Ryan’s view, unlikely to fall soon), it’s hard to see
inflationary pressures anywhere.  None of this is to say that inflation doesn’t remain a
concern. Unwinding the Fed’s bond-buying program will require
some care. And there are specific sectors that could heat up. It
seems plausible that inflation could tick above 2 percent at
some point. But this is still consistent with a working
definition of price stability, and not “debasement of our
currency.”  The point is that Ryan’s inflation forecast simply isn’t
credible. It’s not just another slightly different view on the
economy. It’s a radical departure from the views of those on
both the left and the right. It’s so far from the realm of the
likely that I have yet to see a serious Republican economist who
would defend it.  Radical Departure  So what’s really going on? Perhaps Ryan doesn’t actually
believe his own inflated claims, and this is just cynical
politics as usual. Fear is easy to sell, and he’s a willing
purveyor. But to what end?  Inflation does have distributional effects, and perhaps
he’s simply looking to protect those who gain most from price
stability. That said, the winners and losers from inflation
aren’t as obvious as one might think. It’s not clear why this
should be a Republican cause.  Perhaps there’s a short-run political gain to playing
Chicken Little during a moment in which the extreme elements of
his party remain engaged even as most of the public is tuning
out politics. But Ryan is an ambitious character, and surely
such extremist views will prove to be a liability when the
broader public tunes in to the 2016 election campaign.  The remaining possibility is more frightening. Perhaps Ryan
really does believe this stuff. Perhaps the chairman of the
House Budget Committee is actually an inflation nutter. Even
more scary, perhaps he’s willing to act on his fears.  (Betsey Stevenson is an associate professor of public
policy at the University of Michigan. Justin Wolfers is a
professor of public policy and economics at the University of
Michigan, and a nonresident senior fellow of the Brookings
Institution. Both are Bloomberg View columnists. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@umich.edu  and
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@umich.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 