-- ISE, Diageo, Disney, Billboards: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-12T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/ise-diageo-disney-billboards-intellectual-property.html
International Securities Exchange
LLC, an electronic options-trading forum, is set to renew legal
hostilities with  Chicago Board Options Exchange  Inc. in a fight
over a patent covering automated trading.  Jury selection began yesterday at the federal courthouse in
 Chicago  for a trial that U.S. District Judge Joan Lefkow told
the prospective panelists may last into early April. The case is
one of at least four legal disputes between Deutsche Borse AG-
owned ISE and  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , the Chicago-based operator of
the biggest U.S. options exchange.  “The evidence will establish that CBOE deliberately copied
ISE’s patented system for executing trades,” New York-based ISE
said in a court filing last month.  Competition is increasing among derivatives-exchange
operators including NYSE Euronext and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  ISE
in a March 1 regulatory filing revealed plans to start a second
options market called Topaz which, if approved, would be the
12th such U.S. forum. Nasdaq OMX owns three of the venues while
CBOE and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  have two each.  ISE’s patent scrap with the Chicago Board Options Exchange
began with a complaint filed in federal court in Manhattan in
2006. The case was transferred to Chicago after CBOE counter-
sued there, seeking a finding of non-infringement.  ISE seeks a royalty and lost profits, as well as either an
injunction barring further infringement or royalties for the
balance of the patent’s life. The patent expires in 2019.  CBOE contends in court papers that ISE did nothing more
than acquire a patent for a method that had already been used
elsewhere.  “Automating such floor-based trading is far from new,”
the Chicago exchange’s lawyers said in a pretrial brief filed
last month. CBOE argued that the ISE patent claims lack
innovation and should be declared invalid.  Lefkow declared the patent invalid in March 2011. A federal
appeals court reversed that ruling in May.  The cases are Chicago Board Options Exchange Inc. v.
International Securities Exchange LLC, 07-cv-00623, and
International Securities Exchange LLC v. Chicago Board Options
Exchange Inc., 07-cv-04709, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  IIPSC to Offer IP Insurance Policy for Small Companies  Intellectual Property Insurance Services Corp. , a 25-year-
old insurance company based in Louisville, Kentucky, has begun
offering an insurance product aimed at inventors and small
companies.  According to  a company statement , the product is for
individuals and companies with one to three patents, patent
applications, trademarks or trademark applications.  The policies offer coverage of as much as $500,000 and
terms of as many as three years, with a 10 percent copayment.
This specific policy doesn’t cover software or website patents.  Pre-existing infringement excludes the infringing activity
from coverage, according to the company statement.  Intellectual Property  Insurance Services Corp. was founded
in 1988 by Robert W. Fletcher, a chemical engineer turned patent
lawyer, who has served as a patent counsel for Standard Oil Co.
and  General Electric Co. (GE)   EPO Says Patent Applications Increased 5.2 Percent in 2012  The  European Patent Office  experienced a 5.2 percent
increase in patent filings last year over the previous year’s
total.  According to a  statement  from the EPO, in 2012 it received
257,744 filings. Top country filers were the U.S., with 24.6
percent of all applications, followed by Japan, with 20.1
percent; Germany, with 13.3 percent; China, with 7.3 percent;
and Korea, with 5.6 percent.  Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co. was the leading corporate
filer. This is the first time an Asian company won the top spot.  The greatest number of applications was filed in the
medical-technology area. In that area, 42 percent of the
applicants came from the U.S. The EPO said that 60 percent of
all applications in the transportation segment -- including
automobiles and air transport -- came from European Union member
countries.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Wild Squirrel Changes Name to Wild Friends After Trademark Fight  Wild Squirrel Nut Butter , a specialty food company begun in
2011 by two University of Oregon students, has changed its name
in the wake of two trademark suits.  The Tualatin, Oregon-based company, which produces  sesame
cranberry peanut butter  and  chocolate sunflower seed almond
butter , changed its name to Wild Friends, according to a March 4
blog  posting . The posting makes no reference to the litigation,
saying instead that “we chose it to call out the wild flavors
we create, and the friendly ingredients we use.”  On July 10, Wild Squirrel filed suit in Portland, Oregon,
seeking a declaration it didn’t infringe trademarks belonging to
 Squirrel Brand Holdings LP  of McKinney, Texas, which sells nuts
and candy.  The Oregon company said it had received a cease-and-desist
notice from Squirrel Brand Holdings and asked the court to find
that it didn’t infringe and wasn’t competing unfairly with the
Texas company.  Two days later, Squirrel Brand holdings filed its suit in
federal court in Sherman, Texas, saying the Oregon company
infringed trademarks and that customers were likely to be
confused by the name similarity.  Both cases were dismissed in November 2012.  Wild Squirrel’s case is Wild Squirrel LLC v. Squirrel Brand
Holdings LP, 3:12-cv-01239-HZ, U.S. District Court, District of
Oregon (Portland). Squirrel Brand Holdings’ case is Squirrel
Brand Holdings LP v. Wild Squirrel LLC, 4:12-cv-00429-RC-ALM,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Sherman).  Diageo’s ‘Guinness’ Dispute With Aqualife to Be Heard April 12  A Russian soft-drink manufacturer’s trademark dispute with
London-based  Diageo Plc (DGE)  over the “Guinness” trademark is set
for April 12 in Moscow Commercial Court, the Russian Legal
Information News Service reported.  Aqualife, which is a parallel importer of Guinness, has
claimed the Diageo’s Russian “Guinness” trademark should be
terminated and that the U.K.-based company isn’t using the brand
in Russia, according to the news service.  Lawyers for Diageo said the company is using the brand,
which is associated with an Irish beer made since 1759, the news
service reported.  Presently Guinness is being imported under license into
Russia by  Heineken NV (HEIA) , according to the news service.  Applied Microcircuits Registers ‘Hardsilicon’ as U.S. Trademark  Applied Microcircuits Corp. (AMCC) , a Sunnyvale, California-based
semiconductor manufacturer, registered “hardsilicon” as a
trademark March 5.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark
Office , Applied Microcircuits filed an application in July 2011
to register the mark. The company said it plans to use the term
for semiconductors, circuit boards and central processing units.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Disney’s Oz Lacks Ruby Slippers Because of Copyright Issues  Although the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Oz the Great and
Powerful,” which sold more than $80 million worth of tickets
this past week, has many merchandise tie-ins, the famed ruby
slippers won’t be part of the product mix, the Los Angeles Times
 reported .  That’s because such items as the slippers and Dorothy’s
distinctive blue gingham dress are from the 1939 “Wizard of
Oz” film and, as such, are  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros .
unit’s intellectual property, according to the Times.  Lutz Miller, who heads consumer-products company Kloters
Trading Corp., told the Times that having two large companies
simultaneously offering different takes on the same intellectual
property -- the out-of-copyright novels by L. Frank Baum -- is
unprecedented.  Warner Bros., the Times reported, is planning an Oz-related
television program, and many of its own new products.  Hacked Belgrade Billboard Displays File-Sharing Website Logo  An electronic billboard on Belgrade’s Republic Square was
recently hacked and its advertising display replaced with the
logo of the  Pirate Bay  file-sharing site,  according to  the
TorrentFreak anti-copyright news website.  Students who did the hacking said their intention was
primarily to demonstrate how poorly protected some computer
systems are, according to TorrentFreak.  They told TorrentFreak that while raising awareness of poor
computer security was their primary aim, they also wanted to
support Pirate Bay.  Pirate Bay is the closest thing they have to a free
apolitical independent worldwide organization that supports
their values, according to TorrentFreak.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  China Cyber Attacks Harm U.S. Bid for Tighter Ties, Donilon Says  China’s campaign of cyberespionage against U.S. companies
risks undermining President  Barack Obama ’s second-term effort to
build stronger ties with Asia, said White House National
Security Adviser Thomas Donilon.  The widespread theft of intellectual property and  trade
secrets  through attacks “emanating from China on an
unprecedented scale” has become a point of contention with the
Chinese government, Donilon said yesterday in prepared remarks
for a speech at the  Asia Society  in New York.  “We have worked hard to build a constructive bilateral
relationship that allows us to engage forthrightly on priority
issues of concern,” said Donilon. “The United States and
China, the world’s two largest economies, both dependent on the
Internet, must lead the way in addressing this problem.”  Donilon emphasized that the Obama administration intends to
keep shifting  U.S. foreign policy  toward Asia, a change in
direction from the Middle East that was announced in the
president’s first term. He said the policy shift wasn’t designed
to rein in China, the world’s second-largest economy.  Rebalancing U.S. priorities toward the Pacific “does not
mean containing China or seeking to dictate terms to Asia,”
said Donilon, who has helped shape Obama’s policy overseas.
Obama has “engaged with China at an unprecedented pace,
including twelve face-to-face meetings with  Hu Jintao ,” he
said, referring to the departing Chinese leader.  Donilon said China needs to recognize the scope of the
hacking issue, take steps to halt computer espionage and start a
“constructive dialogue” with the U.S. on standards for conduct
in cyberspace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 