-- Israeli Talks Stuck on Cabinet Posts as Deadline Nears
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-03-12T10:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/israeli-talks-stuck-on-cabinet-posts-as-deadline-nears.html
Israeli coalition talks have
snagged over key Cabinet appointments as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu races to form a new government ahead of U.S. President
 Barack Obama ’s visit next week.  “The negotiations still have to resolve which party will
hold the education and interior ministries,” said Noga
Rappaport, spokeswoman for Netanyahu’s Likud party, in a phone
interview today.  Netanyahu has until March 16 under Israeli electoral law to
put together a ruling coalition. Obama is due to arrive for a
three-day visit beginning March 20, his first to Israel while in
office.  Netanyahu’s Likud party, running jointly with former
Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman’s Yisrael Beitenu faction,
emerged as the biggest parliamentary group in Jan. 22 elections.
The prime minister is in the final stages of putting together a
governing coalition that will include the second-biggest party,
Yesh Atid, and the Jewish Home faction. Together, the three
parties account for 62 of the 120 seats in  Israel ’s parliament,
or Knesset.  Yesh Atid leader Yair Lapid, who is to become the next
finance minister, also wants the education and interior
portfolios for his party. Likud currently holds the education
portfolio under minister Gideon Sa’ar, a close Netanyahu ally.  The prime minister failed to reach an agreement on final
Cabinet appointments in meetings yesterday with Lapid, Liberman
and Jewish Home leader Naftali Bennett. The party leaders did
agree to a Yesh Atid demand to reduce the number of ministries
to about 20 from the current 32, the Haaretz daily said, citing
unidentified party sources.  Liberman Post  Netanyahu has already signed a coalition agreement with the
six-seat Hatenuah faction, whose leader, former foreign minister
 Tzipi Livni , will be appointed justice minister and chief
negotiator with the Palestinians.  The foreign ministry post is being held in reserve for
Liberman, pending the outcome of legal proceedings against the
Yisrael Beitenu leader. Liberman, who resigned as foreign
minister in December after being indicted on fraud and breach of
trust charges, remains in parliament.  Yesh Atid, which campaigned primarily as a champion of
middle-class concerns, favors advancing peace talks with the
Palestinians toward a two-state solution. Jewish Home opposes
any Palestinian state and supports increasing West Bank
settlements.  Sitting in opposition to the government, along with the
Labor faction, will be two ultra-Orthodox parties, Shas and
United Torah Judaism, which would not agree to demands to limit
draft exemptions for young men studying in seminaries. It will
be the first time in a decade that the ultra-Orthodox parties
are not included in the coalition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  