-- Iwata’s Confirmation to BOJ Board in Jeopardy as DPJ Opposes
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-03-12T10:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/iwata-faces-headwinds-for-boj-position-as-dpj-rejects-nomination.html
Kikuo Iwata, one of Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s nominees for  Bank of Japan (8301)  deputy governor, may
struggle to win enough votes for confirmation after the largest
opposition party rejected his candidacy.  The  Democratic Party  of  Japan  will vote against Iwata,
while endorsing Haruhiko Kuroda as central bank governor and
Hiroshi Nakaso as deputy governor, DPJ policy chief Mitsuru
Sakurai said today in  Tokyo . Nakaso and Iwata completed their
confirmation hearings today after Kuroda in his testimony
yesterday called for more stimulus to beat deflation.  Abe needs opposition support to get his nominees through
the upper house of parliament, where his Liberal Democratic
Party-led coalition lacks a majority. Iwata, 70, who advocates
greater government oversight of the central bank, can still win
confirmation should a sufficient number of DPJ lawmakers break
with the party line or smaller parties vote for him.  “It could be a close call depending on whether the DPJ
takes a unified stance against Mr. Iwata or allows individual
members to vote as they wish,” Tokyo-based Barclays Plc
analysts Kyohei Morita, Yuichiro Nagai and James Barber wrote in
a note to clients today.  While supporting Kuroda this time, the DPJ reserves the
right to oppose him once he is re-nominated in April after
finishing the remainder of outgoing Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa ’s
term, Sakurai said. Shirakawa is stepping down March 19, before
his term was to end on April 8.  Yen Rises  The yen strengthened on the DPJ announcement, and was
trading at 95.95 per dollar at 6:41 p.m. in Tokyo.  The DPJ has 87 legislators in the  upper house , compared
with the LDP and coalition member New Komeito’s combined 102.
Six of the chamber’s 242 seats are vacant, so 118 votes are
required for confirmation as the speaker doesn’t vote, according
to parliament’s secretarial office.  The Your Party, which has 12 upper house lawmakers, and the
Japan Restoration Party, which has three, will announce their
stance on the nominees tomorrow.  Iwata, a professor at Tokyo’s Gakushuin University,
criticized the BOJ for insufficient stimulus as far back as the
1990s, and has called for revising the law governing the central
bank to give the government more say in setting policy goals.  “His views on changing the BOJ law, especially allowing
for firing people, is a complete violation of the BOJ’s
independence,” Sakurai said. “Iwata is unacceptable as deputy
governor.”  Iwata today said in parliament that the central bank can
end deflation solely through buying longer-term government debt,
adding that “decisive” monetary stimulus is needed to achieve
a 2 percent inflation target.  The central bank currently buys  government bonds  with
maturities of up to three years through a fund targeted to reach
76 trillion yen ($790 billion) by the end of this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  