-- BOJ Critic Iwata Gains Traction as Minor Japan Parties Back Him
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-03-13T06:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/iwata-says-boj-can-beat-deflation-by-buying-longer-term-bonds.html
Two opposition parties said they
will support Kikuo Iwata for  Bank of Japan (8301)  deputy governor,
reducing the risk that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will fail to
win confirmation for all three of his central bank nominees.  The endorsements put Iwata above the threshold needed to
win confirmation in the upper house of parliament, provided
lawmakers follow their party’s recommendations. The main
opposition  Democratic Party  of  Japan  yesterday said it would
vote against Iwata while supporting Haruhiko Kuroda as central
bank governor and Hiroshi Nakaso for the other deputy post.  Abe needs opposition lawmakers to secure the new central
bank leadership team, as the ruling coalition lacks an upper
house majority. A rejection of Iwata, 70, who has advocated
greater monetary stimulus since the 1990s, may reduce the number
of BOJ board votes in favor of greater asset purchases as Kuroda
presses for more easing.  “It could be a close call depending on whether the DPJ
takes a unified stance against Mr Iwata or allows individual
members to vote as they wish,”  Kyohei Morita , chief Japan
economist at  Barclays Plc in  Tokyo , wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. “We believe any stance that causes gridlock and
delay could leave the DPJ vulnerable to public criticism ahead
of this summer’s upper house election.”  While all three nominees are assured of passing the lower
house, they need 118 votes to be confirmed in the upper house.
Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  and coalition partner New Komeito
have a combined 102 seats, while the DPJ has 87.  The Your Party, with 12 upper house legislators, and the
Japan Restoration Party, with three, today endorsed Iwata and
rejected Nakaso, while splitting on Kuroda. The New Renaissance
Party, which is comprised of two upper house lawmakers, last
month said it would back all three of Abe’s candidates.  Confirmation Votes  The lower house will vote on the nominations tomorrow,
while the upper house will vote on March 15, Genichiro Sata and
Mitsuhide Iwaki, ruling party lawmakers who head the steering
committees for each chamber, told reporters today.  The yen strengthened for a second day after the DPJ said it
would reject Iwata, rising 0.3 percent to 95.75 per dollar as of
3:12 p.m. in Tokyo. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.6
percent after yesterday snapping an eight-day winning streak.  While supporting Kuroda this time, the DPJ reserves the
right to oppose him once he is re-nominated next month after
finishing outgoing Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa ’s term, DPJ policy
chief Mitsuru Sakurai said yesterday. Shirakawa steps down March
19, before his term was due to end on April 8.  Iwata can still win confirmation should a sufficient number
of DPJ lawmakers break with the party line or smaller parties
vote for him.  Upper House  Iwata, a professor at Tokyo’s Gakushuin University, has
called for revising the law governing the central bank to give
the government more say in setting policy goals.  “His views on changing the BOJ law, especially allowing
for firing people, is a complete violation of the BOJ’s
independence,” Sakurai said yesterday. “Iwata is unacceptable
as deputy governor.”  Iwata told lawmakers yesterday that the BOJ can achieve its
2 percent inflation target “within two years” solely through
buying longer-term government debt. BOJ Executive Director
Nakaso, Abe’s choice for the other deputy position, testified
that he doesn’t see any difference in views among the three
nominees.  Dovish Signals  “Nakaso does seem to be sending slightly dovish signals --
more so than we would expect from a traditional, lifetime
central banker,” said Izumi Devalier, a Japan economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong .  The BOJ will probably ease at its next policy meeting on
April 3-4, assuming Kuroda can marshal enough support on the BOJ
board,  Masamichi Adachi , senior economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in Tokyo and a former BOJ official, said in research note
yesterday.  Adachi, who expects all three candidates to be approved,
said the bank may increase the maturity of bonds it buys for
monetary easing to 30 years by combining its asset-purchase fund
set up in October 2010 and outright purchase operations, known
as rinban.  Minutes released yesterday from the BOJ’s February policy
meeting showed that some members said options for easing include
buying longer term bonds, and a few members said the bank might
have to consider combining bond purchases with the rinban money-
market operations.  “It’s becoming pretty clear that the main tool for the new
BOJ will be the purchase of more bonds with longer maturities,”
said  Hiroshi Shiraishi , senior economist at BNP Paribas SA in
Tokyo. “BOJ board members are already indicating they are ready
to accept that idea.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  