-- J.C. Penney Seeks April Trial in Dispute With Bondholders
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-03-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/j-c-penney-seeks-april-trial-in-dispute-with-bondholders.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  asked a Delaware
judge to schedule a trial in April over its dispute with
bondholders threatening to declare the company in technical
default, seeking an order in the meantime to maintain the status
quo.  J.C. Penney sued bondholders Feb. 4 after lawyers claiming
to represent holders of more than 50 percent of its 7.4 percent
bonds due in 2037 accused the company of defaulting by signing a
credit agreement in January 2012 without providing proper
security for investors. Bondholders set a May 5 deadline to
remedy the alleged default, J.C. Penney said in its complaint.  “The timing exigencies and overwhelming economic equities
warrant a status quo order to prevent bondholders from declaring
an ‘event of default’ based on a wholly meritless default
notice,” J.C. Penney said in the filing yesterday.  J.C. Penney said in a filing last month that the improper
default claims could put the company at risk of demands for
payment on more than $2.8 billion in debt. The company’s credit
ratings have been slashed in the past year as Chief Executive
Officer  Ron Johnson ’s turnaround plan struggles to take hold.  Moody’s Investors Service rates the company B3, six levels
below investment-grade, with a “negative” outlook.  Standard &
Poor’s  has an equivalent grade on the company following three
straight quarters of sales declines of at least 20 percent.  Bond Prices  J.C. Penney has $325.6 million of the 7.4 percent notes
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt
traded yesterday at 78.50 cents on the dollar to yield 9.728
percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The default claims were made by lawyers at Boston-based
Brown Rudnick LLP on behalf of anonymous bondholders, the
company said in court papers.  James Stoll, one of those attorneys, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment on the retailer’s request for trial.  Since the complaint was filed last month, the bondholders’
lawyers have reneged on an agreement to postpone a 90-day cure
period until a final resolution on the merits of the case, J.C.
Penney said. The bond trustee also notified J.C. Penney on March
1 that it intended it withdraw because of conflicts arising out
of its role as a lender under the credit facility, the company
said in the filing.  The trustee and the bondholders have also refused to
withdraw the letter, suspend the cure period or to agree on a
trial schedule, the company said.  ‘Delay, Delay’  “The bondholders’ strategy -- delay, delay, delay while
the clock runs on events they set in motion -- is fundamentally
inequitable, if not bad faith,” lawyers for J.C. Penney said in
the filing. “The obstructionist tactics by bond arbitragers and
a paralyzed trustee, if permitted to continue, will result in
serious irreparable harm to JCP.”  The case is J.C. Penney Co. Inc. v. US Bank National
Association as Indenture Trustee, 8276, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  