-- Junk Dim Sum Added by UOB as Pimco Wary of Rally
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-03-12T08:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/junk-dim-sum-rally-lures-uob-as-pimco-wary-of-debt-china-credit.html
A junk Dim Sum bond rally that
drove yields to an 18-month low is prompting caution among funds
with UOB Asset Management Ltd. preferring shorter-dated notes
and Pacific Investment Management Co. wary of high debt loads.  The average yield on these yuan-denominated securities
touched 4.95 percent yesterday, the least since September 2011,
according to an index compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. That’s 162
basis points, or 1.62 percentage points, more than investment-
grade notes, the smallest spread since February 2011.
Speculative-grade debt yields 5.93 percent in the U.S. and 6.61
percent in Asia, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Global investors are piling into  yuan  bonds maturing in
less than five years on expectations the currency will
strengthen as China’s economy expands, while avoiding longer-
dated debt that is most at risk from rising interest rates,
according to UOB Asset. Russian Standard Bank ZAO sold 500
million yuan ($80 million) of two-year notes at an 8 percent
yield on Jan. 31, while the rate on  New World China Land Ltd. (917) ’s
yuan securities due 2015 has dropped to 4.41 percent from 8.5
percent since they were sold almost a year ago.  “We have purchased all the three high-yield CNH issues so
far in 2013,” said Chia Tse Chern, the Singapore-based head of
Asia fixed income at UOB Asset, referring to the yuan offshore
by its three-letter identifier. “We like the short-duration
nature of these high-yield CNH bonds and we believe that the
limited supply should potentially support the bond prices in the
secondary market.”  Supply Limited  The assets of  UOB United Renminbi Bond Fund (UOBURBS)  that Chia
manages rose to S$56.8 million ($45.5 million) on March 4 from
S$22.77 million at end-2012, according to data provided by UOB
Asset Management.  Consumer prices in the world’s second-largest economy
climbed 3.2 percent from a year earlier in February following a
2 percent increase the previous month, official data showed
March 9. The figures were distorted by changes in the timing of
the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday, which fell in February this
year and January in 2012.  The supply of high-yield Dim Sum debt is limited as a
strengthening yuan and relatively low interest rates in the U.S.
encourage companies to tap the dollar bond market for funds. The
yuan will advance 2.1 percent to 6.10 per dollar in 2013,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  China ’s
10-year sovereign note  yields  3.59 percent, compared with 2.07
percent for similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  Standard Chartered Plc. is boosting its holdings of
shorter-dated offshore yuan bonds on the prospect of currency
gains, according to its Singapore-based chief investment
strategist Steve Brice.  Pimco Concerned  Chinese and Hong Kong companies have sold a combined $15.3
billion of dollar debt so far this year, a record for the period,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. There were 33 new high-yield
issues in the Asia dollar bond market totaling $13.1 billion
this year, compared with three in the Dim Sum bond market that
raised $720 million, according to UOB’s Chia.  “High-yield companies prefer to issue in the U.S. dollar
market where they can issue in larger sizes and longer tenor,”
Chia said. “We think that the volume of high-yield Dim Sum
issuance is likely to be limited.”  High-yield or junk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  Pimco, the manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, is
concerned about the quality of companies selling these yuan-
denominated bonds in Hong Kong, according to Raja Mukherji, who
is based in the city and is head of Asian credit research.  More Issues  “Many issuers are coming to market without a deep track
record or management credibility, are much less diversified, and
are highly leveraged,” Mukherji wrote in a March 6 e-mail.
“Pimco is carefully observing the Dim Sum market and will
analyze investment opportunities based on the above key
factors.”  Far East Horizon Ltd. (3360) , a financial services provider that
issued 1 billion yuan of Dim Sum notes at 5.75 percent in
January, had long-term debt equivalent to 129 percent of its
equity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  There are “a number of companies” in preparations for Dim
Sum bond sales, which will return the demand and supply balance
in the offshore market to a more normal level, Citic Securities
Co. wrote in a report yesterday, without identifying the names
of potential issuers. ABC International Holdings Ltd., a unit of
Beijing-based Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., said last month
it plans to hire more traders for yuan bonds in Hong Kong as a
growing number of state-owned companies tap the market.  Yuan Demand  The yuan rose 0.02 percent to 6.2167 per dollar as of 11:20
a.m. in  Shanghai , while the twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards gained 0.05 percent to 6.3066 in Hong Kong. The  cost  of
insuring China’s sovereign notes using five-year credit-default
swaps fell four basis points to 62 in New York since the end of
December, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a borrower defaults.  There are signs that global demand for yuan-denominated
assets is strengthening. The People’s Bank of China and domestic
financial institutions sold a record 683.7 billion yuan to buy
foreign exchange in January, official  data  show. The amount of
yuan held outside China totals almost 900 billion yuan and the
currency is expected to be fully convertible in five years, HSBC
economists led by  Qu Hongbin  wrote in a research note received
yesterday.  The average yield on non-rated Dim Sum debt has fallen 85
basis points to 4.95 percent in the past year, according to the
HSBC Offshore  Renminbi  Bond Index. The rate on investment-grade
notes dropped 20 basis points to 3.33 percent.  “We have seen better flows into offshore yuan credits both
in primary allocation and secondary trading,” HSBC’s Hong Kong-
based analysts Crystal Zhao and Zhang Zhiming wrote in a
research note on March 7. “We remain constructive on the high-
yield space as investors continue to search for yield.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  