-- Justice’s Voting Unit Politically Polarized, Report Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-03-12T21:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/justice-s-voting-unit-politically-polarized-report-says.html
The U.S. Justice Department office
that oversees voting laws has been politically polarized with an
atmosphere of mistrust, according to an inspector general’s
report that also concludes the unit’s decisions weren’t flawed.  The dismissal of a voter intimidation lawsuit against
members of the New Black Panther Party for their activity at a
Philadelphia polling site in the 2008 election wasn’t motivated
by partisan politics, according to the report.  Still, the 258-page report, the result of almost three
years of work, concludes that “deep ideological polarizations”
have harmed the section that oversees voting rights cases.  The report comes as Thomas Perez, the head of the Justice
Department’s civil-rights division, which includes the voting
section, is said to be President  Barack Obama ’s choice as labor
secretary, according to two people familiar with the matter.  In a letter to Inspector General Michael E. Horowitz
released today, Perez said he concurred with most of the
report’s findings. Perez agreed no political motivation was
behind the dismissal of the New Black Panther case, and cited
the report’s finding that the decisions “were not the result of
improper racial or political considerations.”  Horowitz’s report spans more than a decade of decisions and
disputes inside the Justice Department, going back to the
transition between President Bill Clinton and President George W. Bush in 2000.  Partisan Allegiances  The report describes a voting-rights section often split by
partisan allegiances. Horowitz found no evidence that conflicts
within the section led to the pursuit of improper partisan
advantage or the refusal to enforce some laws for particular
groups of voters.  Still, disputes between career employees and political
appointees, appearances of political influence in decision
making, and perceptions of shifts in enforcement priorities led
to a “disappointing lack of professionalism” by some employees
during the Bush and Obama administrations, according to the
report.  “We believe the high partisan stakes associated with some
of the statutes that the Voting Section enforces have
contributed to polarization and mistrust within the section,”
the report said.  Republican lawmakers have pressed Perez and the Justice
Department for information about the office’s activities under
President Barack Obama’s administration, including details on
the decision to dismiss the case against three New Black
Panthers in 2009.  ‘Politicized Enforcement’  Senator Ted Cruz, a  Texas  Republican, said during a
congressional hearing featuring Attorney General Eric Holder
last week that the department’s decision not to bring action in
the New Black Panther case was an example of “what many
perceive as the politicized enforcement of the law at the
Justice Department.”  Perez, 51, hadn’t been confirmed in his current role when
the decision was made to drop the lawsuit against three of the
four individuals involved. The accusations stem from the 2008
election, and the case was filed in the final days of Bush’s
administration. The fourth individual received an injunction
barring him from appearing at a Philadelphia polling station.  House Republicans, including Frank Wolf of  Virginia , the
chairman of the panel that oversees the Justice Department’s
budget, and former Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith of
Texas, have pressed the department for information on the
decision not to pursue the case.  Independent Panel  Wolf said today he was “deeply troubled” by the report
and called on Holder to appoint an independent panel to conduct
a review of the voting section.  “The report makes clear that the division has become a
rat’s nest of unacceptable and unprofessional actions, and even
outright threats against career attorneys and systemic
mismanagement,” Wolf said in a statement.  Perez said he has worked to institute changes to the office
since he joined the department in 2009.  “Without question, the voting section in January 2009 had
low morale and an unacceptable degree of staff conflict,” Perez
said in his letter to Horowitz. Though Perez cited “significant
progress” in changing the section’s culture, he acknowledged
that “additional work remains.”  Identification Laws  During Perez’s tenure, the civil-rights division has
expanded its work under the Voting Rights Act, challenging and
successfully blocking several state voter-identification laws
before the 2012 election. Perez, in his letter, cited an
increase in workload and productivity that section leaders
believe “are among the highest levels ever.”  Perez, the former secretary of the Maryland Department of
Labor, said he has instituted “a number of steps to improve the
professionalism of our workplace and to ensure that we enforce
the civil rights laws in an independent, evenhanded fashion,”
including review procedures and an overhauled hiring process.  Today’s report marks the second politically charged subject
Horowitz has taken on since he became the department’s inspector
general in 2012. Horowitz recommended 14 Justice Department
employees for disciplinary or administrative action for their
roles in the botched firearm operation known as Fast and
Furious, which led to the loss of more than 2,000 guns across
the Mexican border.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  