-- Kaisa Markets First Junk-Rated Bond Since China’s Property Curbs
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-03-12T04:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/kaisa-markets-first-junk-rated-bond-since-china-s-property-curbs.html
Kaisa Group Holdings Ltd. (1638)  is
marketing a sale of U.S. dollar-denominated bonds, becoming the
first junk-rated Chinese property developer to test the market
since the government announced measures to cool  house prices 
earlier this month.  Kaisa, based in Shenzhen, is offering five-year notes at a
yield of about 9.125 percent, a person familiar with the matter
said asking not to be identified because the terms aren’t set.
The securities are expected to carry a B+ rating from Standard &
Poor’s and B1 from Moody’s Investors Service, and proceeds will
be used to partially repay dollar notes sold in 2010 and fund
existing and new property projects, the person said.  China  Vanke Co., the country’s largest developer, borrowed
$800 million last week in its debut U.S. currency offering. The
BBB S&P-rated note issue came less than a week after China
announced on March 1 higher down-payment requirements and
 interest rates  on second-home mortgages in an effort to curb
house-price increases. China’s new-home prices rose for a ninth
straight month in February, SouFun Holdings Ltd. said March 1.  “Austerity measures are an ongoing concern,” said Raymond Chia, the Singapore-based deputy head of credit research for
Asia fixed-income at Schroder Investment Management Ltd., which
managed the equivalent of $327.4 billion of assets as of Sept.
30. “However in some cases, where companies raise money for
debt refinancing and subsequently reduce their cost of debt, it
tends to bode better for investor sentiment as opposed to purely
raising money for land acquisitions.”  Junk Yields  Kaisa priced $650 million of five-year bonds in April 2010
at a yield of 13.5 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  The average yield junk-rated companies in  Asia  pay to sell
debt was  6.15 percent  yesterday, near a five-week low of 6.147
percent touched March 8, according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  High-yield bonds, also known as non-investment grade,
speculative grade or junk, hold ratings lower than BBB- from S&P
and Fitch Ratings Ltd., or the equivalent Baa3 from Moody’s.  Kaisa’s sale would be its second dollar bond this year,
after it issued $500 million of 10.25 percent notes due 2020 on
Jan. 3. Those notes were yielding 9.584 percent as of 11:12 a.m.
in  Singapore , BNP Paribas SA prices on Bloomberg show.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  fell 2 basis points to 100 basis points
as of 8:21 a.m. in  Hong Kong , according to Credit Agricole SA
prices. The measure is headed for its lowest close since January
2011, according to data provider CMA.  Falling Risk  The Markit iTraxx Japan index retreated 3 basis points to
99 as of 9:10 a.m. in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG prices show. The
benchmark is set for its first close below 100 since March 2011,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index was little changed at 106
as of 11:12 a.m. in Sydney, according to National Australia Bank
Ltd. prices. The gauge dropped for six straight business days
through yesterday, when it closed at its lowest since May 2011,
CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  