-- Kangaroo Route Turns Chinese With Flights to Guangzhou
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-03-13T10:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/kangaroo-route-turns-chinese-with-flights-to-guangzhou.html
Travelers plying the Kangaroo Route
between  Australia  and  Europe  have discovered the cheapest path
goes through Guangzhou.  China Southern Airlines Co. (1055)  is undercutting  Qantas Airways
Ltd. (QAN)  by as much as 34 percent on the cost of Sydney-to- London 
tickets and from April 1 will operate more flights to Europe
than the Australian carrier. The Guangzhou, China-based airline
said it’s ready to sacrifice profitability as it lures traffic
from  Singapore  and Hong Kong.  China ’s three biggest carriers, including  Air China Ltd. (601111) 
and  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (670) , have tripled flights from
Oceania to Europe over the past five years, while upgrading
services. The route will provide experience needed for further
expansion into North America and Europe as annual spending by
Chinese tourists exceeds $100 billion. Qantas is fighting back
with discounted fares to Asia.  “The sheer volumes of travelers mean that eventually China
can be the most powerful transit country in the region, probably
the world,” Peter Harbison, executive chairman of CAPA Centre
for Aviation, said by e-mail. “They will be able to price very,
very competitively.”  The shift is squeezing carriers on the route, which  started 
in 1935 with a 12 1/2-day trip between London and Brisbane.
Stopovers once included Brisbane, Darwin, Singapore, Bangkok,
Calcutta, Karachi, Cairo,  Rome  and  Frankfurt ,  according to 
Aussieairliners.org, giving rise to the  trademarked  Kangaroo
Route nickname.  Fare Comparison  Revenue passenger kilometers, a measure of traffic,
declined for ten months at Qantas and five at  Cathay (293)  Pacific
Airways Ltd. on reduced capacity between Europe and Oceania,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cathay and Singapore Airlines Ltd. stand to lose from the
Chinese carriers’ growth, said K Ajith, an aviation analyst at
UOB Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. Transit passengers make up about 30
percent of traffic at Singapore’s Changi Airport, spokesman Ivan
Tan said by e-mail.  China Eastern shares rose 1.9 percent to HK$3.23 in Hong
Kong trading. Air China fell 1.9 percent and China Southern
declined 1.2 percent.  Qantas shares rose 2 percent to close at A$1.745 in Sydney
trading, while Cathay fell 0.4 percent after reporting annual
profit that beat analyst estimates and Singapore Air advanced
0.2 percent.  Price Comparison  China Southern’s cheapest economy-class  fare  between Sydney
and London for a two-week trip starting May 4 was A$1,442 on
travel booking website  webjet.com.au  yesterday.  The lowest price for a non-Chinese airline, on  Malaysian
Airline System Bhd. (MAS) , was 19 percent more expensive at A$1,721.
Emirates tickets started at A$1,896 while Singapore Air’s was at
A$1,940.  The cheapest Qantas ticket was 51 percent more than China
Southern, at A$2,180.  Air China and China Eastern put an inch more leg room than
Qantas in economy class while China Southern leased one of
Sydney Airport’s most expensive billboards for three years and
put massage chairs in first-class cabins.  “At the beginning of the operation we might lose some
money,” said Henry He, China Southern’s managing director for
Australia and New Zealand. “The most important thing for us is
experience.”  Chinese Spending  China Southern has 42 weekly flights out of Australia.
Qantas will reduce its service to 28 a week as part of a tie-up
with Emirates.  Every week, 74 flights travel through mainland China, up
from 21 five years ago and compared with 98 each through
Emirates’ Dubai hub and on  Singapore Air (SIA) ’s network through
Changi, according to a Dec. 20 report by the Australian
Competition and Consumer Commission. Cathay flies 70 times a
week to Australia, said Dominic Perret, southwest Pacific
operations general manager.  Competition on Australia-to-Europe routes will probably
intensify, said Andrew Orchard, an airline analyst at CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd.  Chinese tourists, who spent $105 billion overseas in 2012,
are forecast to make 94 million trips this year, almost double
the level in 2009, according to China Tourism Academy reports.  Qantas’s Radar  There is “huge potential” for routes to Australia, China
Eastern said in a statement. It plans to “deploy better
aircraft” and add flights to Melbourne and Sydney.  Still, Chinese carriers’ service falls short, said Paul Sheridan, chief Asia consultant at Ascend Worldwide Ltd. First-
class passengers get on-board showers on Emirates and sheepskin
mattress covers on Qantas’s beds. Singapore Air’s cabin crew
train for 15 weeks.  The Chinese carriers “are on our radar,” said Simon
Hickey, head of Qantas’s international unit.  The competition “keeps us on our toes,” Singapore Air
spokesman  Nicholas Ionides  said by e-mail.  China Southern flies five Airbus A380s and has ten Boeing
787 Dreamliners on order. It’s recruited Australians as cabin
crew and is setting up a school for elite stewards.  “If we want a good future, we should develop worldwide,”
He said. “Napoleon said: if the soldier doesn’t want to be a
general, he won’t be a good soldier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  