-- KBC Said to Plan $1.3 Billion Zachodni Stake Sale Next Week
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-03-12T11:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/kbc-said-to-plan-sale-of-1-3-billion-zachodni-stake-correct-.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC)  plans to sell its $1.3
billion stake in  Bank Zachodni WBK SA (BZW) , Poland’s third-largest
lender, as soon as next week, two bankers with knowledge of the
transaction said today.  Belgium ’s biggest bank and insurer by market value will
sell its 16 percent holding to money managers, said the bankers,
who asked not to be identified because the information isn’t
public.  Spain ’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Zachodni’s largest
shareholder, may also reduce its 75 percent stake at the same
time, the people said.  Zachodni, which completed a merger with KBC’s Kredyt Bank
SA unit in January, is under pressure from regulators to boost
the proportion of its shares which are available to other
 investors . The bank has to boost its so-called free-float to 25
percent by April and 30 percent by the end of 2014 from about 9
percent today, according to the regulator.  Santander may want to tap demand for bank stocks after
offerings of Bank Pekao SA and PKO Bank Polski shares this year,
the two bankers said. Italy’s UniCredit SpA sold a 3.7 billion-
zloty ($1.2 billion) stake in Pekao,  Poland ’s second-largest
bank, on January 30. Less than a week earlier, the government
and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego sold a 5.2 billion-zloty holding
in PKO Bank Polski, the country’s largest lender.  Shares Outperform  Zachodni shares have risen 12 percent this year, compared
with a 5.1 percent fall in the benchmark WIG20 index. The lender
was trading 0.2 percent lower to 272.5 zloty at 12:15 p.m. in
Warsaw.  KBC said yesterday it hired Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup
Inc., Morgan Stanley, Bank of America, Credit Suisse Group AG,
KBC Securities NV, Santander Investment, Dom Maklerski BZ WBK
SA, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG to oversee the sale of
its stake in Zachodni this year.  While KBC is preparing a share sale, it has “no comment on
any time horizon” for the offering, Viviane Huybrecht, a
spokeswoman for the lender, said by telephone from Brussels.
Radoslaw Rozycki, a spokesman for Bank Zachodni in Warsaw, and
Peter Greiff, a spokesman for Santander, declined to comment.  KBC has cut risk-weighted assets by at least 32 percent
since the end of 2008 and sold more than 20 entities as part of
a disposal program agreed with EU regulators in exchange for
approval of state aid. The bank agreed to sell its Russian
Absolut Bank for 1 billion euros in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net  