-- Kenya Holds Key Rate as Presidential Candidate Challenges Defeat
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-03-12T12:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/kenya-holds-key-rate-as-presidential-candidate-challenges-defeat.html
Kenya ’s central bank left its key
 lending rate  unchanged after four consecutive cuts as it gauges
how the economy will react to the disputed outcome of last
week’s presidential election.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by central bank Governor
Njuguna Ndung’u, kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 9.5
percent, the Nairobi-based bank said in an e-mailed statement
today. The decision was forecast by all nine economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  “The bank will want to pause and see which way the economy
is going in terms of growth after the elections,” Ignatius Chicha, head of markets at Citigroup Inc. in Nairobi, the
capital, said before the decision was announced. “If all goes
well and it remains business as usual, by the next MPC meeting
it may resume cutting rates to jump-start growth.”  The electoral commission on March 9 declared Uhuru Kenyatta, the son of Kenya’s first post-independence leader, the
winner of last week’s presidential election. He secured 50.07 of
the ballots cast, above the 50 percent plus one vote required to
avoid a runoff. Kenyatta’s main rival,  Raila Odinga , said he’ll
go to the  Supreme Court  with evidence of “tampering” to
overturn the outcome.  The fact that the elections passed off peacefully will spur
investor confidence and help boost capital inflows for the
remainder of the year, Melissa Verreynne, an economist at NKC
Independent Economists in  Cape Town , said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “The central bank will want to wait and
see how the defeated Raila Odinga’s court action over the
election outcome proceeds,” Verreynne said.  2007 Violence  The vote was Kenya’s first national election since December
2007, when allegations of rigging sparked two months of violence
that left more than 1,100 people dead. The fighting also curbed
growth in  East Africa ’s biggest economy to 1.5 percent in 2008
from 7 percent a year earlier.  The economy may expand as much as 6 percent this year, from
an estimated 4.5 percent to 5 percent in 2012, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  The central bank has cut its key lending rate by 8.5
percentage points since July as policy makers bet  inflation 
would continue to slow. Inflation accelerated for the second
month in February to 4.5 percent, compared with a peak of almost
20 percent in November 2011 and below the government’s 5 percent
target.  “Inflation has been on the rise so they may also hold
rates because they are a bit worried about that,” Chicha said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  