-- KKR Said to Debut Real Estate Fund With $500 Million
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-03-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/kkr-said-to-debut-real-estate-fund-with-500-million.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the buyout firm run by
 Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , is preparing to market its
first fund dedicated to real estate investments with an initial
$500 million committed to the pool, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The firm committed a significant amount of its own money to
put investors at ease as it gears up to pitch the fund to
additional so-called limited partners, said one of the people,
who asked for anonymity because the plans are private. KKR
hasn’t set a target for the fund, the people said.  KKR started a real estate unit in 2011, following larger
competitors  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , as it
seeks to expand its business beyond traditional leveraged
buyouts. KKR has committed more than $650 million to 10 property
deals, investing primarily from its own balance sheet and its
 KKR Financial Holdings LLC (KFN)  vehicle.  “We’ve got a real sense of urgency around scaling in these
businesses and grabbing as much land as we can,”  Scott Nuttall ,
KKR’s head of global capital and asset management, said during
an investing conference in September. “Fundraising is not
always an easy thing, and first-time funds are particularly
challenging to raise,” he added. “We’ve been really leaning in
with our own capital.”  Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for New York-based KKR,
declined to comment on the firm’s fundraising.  Europe, Asia  Ralph Rosenberg, a former partner at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., joined KKR as head of real estate in 2011. In an interview
in November, he said KKR plans to invest in Europe and was
bidding on deals in London that would finance construction of
rental and for-sale apartments.  The unit has 11 employees in the U.S. and Europe who focus
solely on deals. KKR also has dealmakers in Asian cities
including Beijing and Mumbai who spend time on real estate.  KKR’s real estate deals have included an investment in a
residential development in Williston,  North Dakota , for workers
in the state’s booming oil business; a joint venture with
Houston-based Hines to develop a  business park ; and the
acquisition with two other companies of Sunrise Senior Living
Inc.’s management business. In April last year, KKR paid $196
million for family-run Yorktown Center, a shopping mall in the
Chicago suburb of Lombard, Illinois.  Commercial, Multifamily  A $132 million deal for Legends Outlets  Kansas City , an
outlet-center business with 1.1 million square feet of retail
space and a 14-screen movie theater, is set to close this week.
KKR was the winning bidder for the property at a Jan. 25
foreclosure auction in Kansas City, Kansas.  “We’ve never had a team come into the firm and get as busy
as quickly as this team has,” Nuttall said on a conference call
with analysts and investors last year. “There’s just a variety
of opportunities on a global basis: commercial, multifamily,
U.S., Europe, Asia.”  Blackstone has built its real estate  business  to $57
billion of assets under management, owning real estate debt and
properties such as Hilton Worldwide Inc. and California’s Hotel
del Coronado. The New York-based firm last year raised a $13.3
billion real estate opportunity fund, a record for the industry.
Carlyle, based in Washington, oversees real estate  funds  in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  