-- KKR Said to Seek Sale of 50% Stake in France’s Tarkett
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-03-12T13:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/kkr-said-to-seek-sale-of-50-stake-in-france-s-tarkett.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  is preparing to sell its
50 percent stake in Tarkett SA in a deal that may value the
French floormaker at as much as $3.8 billion, five people
familiar with the matter said.  KKR, the private-equity firm run by Henry Kravis and  George
Roberts , is working with JPMorgan Chase & Co. on the sale, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the process
is private. The Deconinck family, which owns the rest of
Tarkett, isn’t planning to sell its stake, the people said. KKR
may also consider an initial public offering for its stake, two
of the people said.  Based on valuations of rivals, the deal may value Tarkett
at between $2.5 billion and $3.8 billion, according to one of
the people. Initial information was sent out to potential
strategic and financial buyers this month, the person said.  KKR
and JPMorgan declined to comment. Tarkett couldn’t immediately
be reached for comment.  Tarkett, which designs, manufactures and sells PVC, wood,
laminate, sports and other specialty  flooring  products, boosted
sales by 11 percent to 2.3 billion euros ($3 billion) last year,
helped by acquisitions and demand in Eastern Europe, Asia and
North America. The company, based in the Paris suburb of
Nanterre, has been jointly owned by KKR and the Deconinck family
since 2007.  KKR agreed last week to buy industrial equipment maker
 Gardner Denver Inc. (GDI)  for about $3.7 billion after raising its
initial offer. The buyout firm, founded in 1976, oversaw $75.5
billion of assets as of Dec. 31. The firm’s industrials team
closed a $1.1 billion deal last year for Capital Safety Ltd.,
the maker of harnesses and lanyards that protect workers from
falls.  Rising Earnings  Tarkett’s 2012 earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization excluding one-time items  rose  36
percent to 260 million euros. Last year’s acquisition of Tandus,
a specialist in commercial carpet flooring in North America,
could boost Tarkett’s Ebitda to 295 million euros, one of the
people said.  Mohawk Industries Inc. (MHK)  and  Interface Inc., (TILE)  two makers of
flooring and carpet for residential and commercial applications,
both trade at 9.9 times estimated 2013 Ebitda, while rival  Forbo
Holding AG (FORN)  trades at 6.6 times estimated 2013 Ebitda, according
to Bloomberg data.  With an Ebitda of 295 million euros and based on the
average multiple of 7.2 times Ebitda paid in similar deals in
North America and western Europe in the last five years, Tarkett
would be valued at about about $2.8 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tarkett Chief Executive Officer Michel Giannuzzi said last
month that the company’s low level of debt will enable him to
continue the company’s policy of targeted acquisitions.
Tarkett’s net debt rose to 452 million euros at the end of 2012
from 332 million euros a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  