-- Korea Combs Amazon for Rare Metals Used in Smartphones
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   M i c h a e l   S m i t h
-- 2013-03-12T18:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/korea-combs-amazon-for-rare-metals-used-in-smartphones.html
South Korea, the world’s biggest
maker of consumer-electronics memory chips, is leading the first
geological study of Colombia’s rare metals as it seeks to secure
supplies for  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  LG Corp. (003550)   State-run Korean Institute of Geoscience and  Mineral
Resources  is exploring for coltan, the ore that contains
tantalum, in the Amazon rain forest of Colombia’s Vichada and
Guainia departments, project geologist Jin Kwang Min said.  South America  holds 40 percent of the world’s tantalum,
used in mobile phones and tablets, according to Belgium-based
industry group Tantalum-Niobium International Study Center, or
TIC. South Korea targeted a 32 percent self-sufficiency rate in
major mineral resources by 2012, up from 18 percent in 2007,
according to the  Ministry  of Knowledge Economy.  “If we find good potential for coltan mines, some
companies in Korea will finance further exploration,” Jin said
by telephone from Seoul on March 8, without naming companies.
“So far we haven’t found anything but we are returning to
Colombia in early April.”  The study started last year under the auspices of Colombian
President  Juan Manuel Santos  and  Lee Myung Bak , South Korea’s
leader at the time. It covers 500 square kilometers (193 square
miles) and has an initial cost of $50,000, Alexandra Orjuela, a
spokeswoman for Santos’ office, said by e-mail March 5.
President Park Geun Hye succeeded Lee in February.  The study will finish at the end of November and
preliminary findings will be published by year-end, said Gloria
Prieto, deputy director at the Colombian Geological Service, the
state-run institute working with the Korean geologists.  Sales Double  “South Korea wants to guarantee tantalum supplies to their
companies,” Ronald Gilerman, who runs tantalum trading company
A&R Merchants Inc., said by phone from New York today.  Colombia  has no official coltan deposits and so far
production has come mainly from sifting Amazon tributaries.
Sales doubled from a year earlier to $20.4 million in 2012,
according the national statistics office.  Tantalum output disruptions in Australia and East Africa
since 2009 have been offset by rising production from Brazil’s
Amazon region, which has become the world’s largest source of
tantalum, said Ulric Schwela, TIC’s technical officer.  “Global supply is being met but at current prices there
seems to be an opportunity for new players,” Schwela said today
by telephone.  Samsung is the world’s largest television maker and
manufactures the Galaxy smartphone. LG is the world’s third-
largest mobile-phone maker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Bogota at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Smith  in Santiago at 
 mssmith@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  