-- N.Z. Dollar May Rise Versus Aussie on RBNZ View, Citi, UBS Say
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-03-12T19:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/n-z-dollar-may-rise-versus-aussie-on-rbnz-view-citi-ubs-say.html
The  New Zealand  dollar may gain
against its Australian counterpart on speculation  Reserve Bank
of New Zealand  Governor Graeme Wheeler may signal a bias toward
higher  interest rates  in a statement tomorrow, according to
Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG.  The New Zealand currency, nicknamed the kiwi, has fallen
1.9 percent versus the Aussie since Wheeler gave a speech on
Feb. 20 that was widely misinterpreted by the foreign-exchange
market as favoring currency intervention, according to  Todd Elmer , a Singapore-based Citigroup strategist, in a client note.
 Home prices  in New Zealand rose in February to the highest level
since March 2008, giving the central bank further reason to
eventually raise interest rates, said  Geoffrey Yu , a senior
currency strategist at UBS in London.  “The chances of a more hawkish tone from the central bank
are rising,” Yu said in a phone interview. “After the
statement, we see Aussie-kiwi going to 1.24, before heading
below 1.20.”  The kiwi declined 0.7 percent to NZ$1.2501 per Aussie today
in in New York trading, after weakening to NZ$1.2525, the lowest
level since Jan. 30. One Aussie was last worth less than NZ$1.20
in October 2009.  Monetary Policy  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand is forecast to keep its
official cash rate at 2.5 percent tomorrow when the central bank
issues a policy statement and Wheeler holds a news conference.  While Wheeler outlined policy options to reverse the
currency’s appreciation in a speech to manufacturers and
exporters in Auckland on Feb. 20, including exchange-rate
intervention, his prevailing point was that none are currently
attractive, Citigroup’s Elmer wrote.  The kiwi has surged against 15 of its 16 most-traded peers
since the end of 2008, including a 30 percent jump versus the
dollar. The currency has fallen 3 percent against the Australian
dollar.  “The bank will probably just reiterate that the currency
is overvalued, but that  New Zealand dollar  strength will help to
cap rises in inflation,” Elmer wrote about Wheeler’s March
policy statement. “Even through policy makers may stop short of
shifting towards an explicit tightening bias, this means the
policy statement should have a hawkish slant.”  Home prices  in New Zealand rose 6.3 percent from this time
last year, Quotable Value New Zealand, a government agency, said
in an e-mailed state on March 7. That’s the fastest rise since
2008.  During January’s policy statement, Wheeler said that the
“bank does not want to see financial stability or inflation
risks accentuated by housing demand getting too far ahead of
supply.”  “There is every reason to expect similar hawkish overtones
from the March monetary policy statement,” wrote Yu in a note
to clients.  The kiwi has climbed 3.3 percent during the past six months
among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  has
gained 2.6 percent and the Aussie has gained 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in  New York  at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  