-- Mars Rover Finds Conditions Once May Have Supported Life
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-03-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/nasa-says-mars-rover-finds-conditions-once-suited-for-life.html
A Martian rock sample tested by
 Curiosity , the  NASA  rover that landed on the planet seven months
ago, contains clay minerals suggesting conditions on Mars may
have once supported living microbes, the U.S. space agency said.  The Rover identified sulfur, nitrogen, hydrogen, oxygen,
phosphorus and carbon -- some of the key ingredients for life --
in powder drilled last month out of a sedimentary rock near an
ancient stream bed, the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration said in a statement. The sample was collected at
a site a few hundred yards away from where the rover found
evidence in September of an ancient stream bed.  “A fundamental question for this mission is whether Mars
could have supported a habitable environment,”  Michael Meyer ,
lead scientist for NASA’s Mars Exploration Program at the
agency’s headquarters in  Washington , said yesterday in the
statement. “From what we know now, the answer is yes.”  The ancient environment was wet and not overly oxidizing,
acidic or salty, providing conditions for life to exist, John
Grotzinger, a member of the rover project team, said during a
news  conference . In addition, the substances identified in the
powder could have sustained organisms, he said.  “Very primitive organisms, they can derive basic energy
from feeding on rocks,” Grotzinger said. The team hasn’t
discovered evidence of life, just that the conditions for life
may have existed in the ancient environment surveyed by the
rover.  Gale Crater  The bedrock where Curiosity drilled lies in a network of
channels descending from the rim of so-called  Gale Crater . The
hole drilled by the rover, the first ever by a robot probe,
measured 0.63 inches (1.6 centimeters) wide and 2.5 inches deep.
An additional drilled sample will be used to confirm the
results, NASA said.  Curiosity arrived on Mars in August after a 352 million-
mile (563 million-kilometer) journey and a subsequent plunge
through the planet’s atmosphere that was dubbed “7 Minutes of
Terror.” Scientists running the $2.5 billion mission are trying
to determine if Mars once had an environment capable of
sustaining life.  Starting in 1976, Viking landers sent by NASA to Mars found
geological features such as river valleys, grooves carved into
rock and stream networks that typically form from large amounts
of water and suggested that rain may have once fallen there.  The Spirit and Opportunity rovers that preceded Curiosity
have demonstrated water flowed on the surface and soaked the
ground. Spirit and Opportunity also measured minerals in rocks
and soils.  Curiosity was launched from  Cape Canaveral  in  Florida  on
Nov. 26, 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  