-- Naspers to Buy Stake in Russia’s Largest Online Classifieds Site
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-03-12T13:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/naspers-to-buy-stake-in-russia-s-largest-online-classifieds-site.html
Naspers Ltd (NPN) , Africa’s largest media
group, will buy a 19 percent stake in Russia’s largest online
classifieds site Avito.ru and invest $50 million to fund the
company’s expansion.  Naspers, which also owns a 29 percent stake in Russian
social networking and gaming site  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL) , will merge
its smaller Russian classifieds websites Slando.ru and OLX.ru
with Avito and fund a push into auto and real estate
advertising, Avito said today in a statement.  Avito  has 33 million monthly unique users, while Slando has
18 million and OLX “significantly less”, Avito said in an e-
mailed response to questions. Avito generated revenue of $30
million last year, the company said.  Avito’s Swedish founders Jonas Nordlander and Filip
Engelbert will own about 15 percent of the company after the
deal with Cape Town-based Naspers is completed, Avito said.
Other shareholders include private equity companies Kinnevik,
based in Stockholm, U.S.-based Accel Partners and  Baring Vostok ,
which took part in a round of fundraising last year.  “From a Naspers perspective the rationale for this
transaction was to create a stronger market player in the high-
growth Russian classifieds market, in which we’ll have a
significant minority stake,” Naspers spokeswoman Meloy Horn
said by e-mail. “Even though classifieds is still a young and
unprofitable segment in Russia, we believe the sector offers
opportunity.” Horn declined to comment on how much Naspers had
paid for its stake.  Naspers is a holding company that provides television and
internet services in Africa. It owns 34 percent of Hong Kong-
based  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  alongside the stake in Mail.ru.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  