-- New York to Seek Approval to Complete Merkin Deal
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-03-12T19:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/new-york-to-seek-approval-to-complete-merkin-deal.html
New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman was to ask a federal judge for permission to
complete a $410 million settlement with J. Ezra Merkin, using
his law enforcement powers to compensate the former Bernard Madoff investor’s victims.  The hearing was delayed until March 25, according to the
court. Madoff brokerage liquidator  Irving Picard , who seeks to
collect $500 million from Merkin for different investors, is
trying to block the deal. Schneiderman has argued that Picard
has no claim to the settlement money and lacks power as a
bankruptcy trustee to stop the state from enforcing the people’s
legal rights.  Both sides were to have their say today before U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan, who took over the case
from a bankruptcy judge. Investors in Merkin’s hedge funds lost
more than $1.2 billion in the Madoff fraud, New York has said.
Madoff, arrested in 2008, is serving 150 years in prison for the
largest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.  The combatants portray their fight as a clash between state
law, governing a top law enforcer, and bankruptcy law,
regulating trustees in fraud cases. The hearing was delayed
because of “a court conflict,” Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for
Picard, said today. Asked if the parties were trying to settle
the dispute, she said, “There have been no settlement
discussions of late and none are anticipated.”  Adjournment  James Freedland, a spokesman for Schneiderman, declined to
comment on the adjournment or the possibility of settlement.  Picard has said that only he can sue investors who
allegedly participated in Madoff’s fraud, compensating brokerage
customers whose claims he has authorized. New York sued Merkin
to pay investors in his hedge funds who wouldn’t get paid by
Picard because they weren’t Madoff customers. Schneiderman is
trying to complete the settlement of that suit.  Schneiderman has accused Picard of using intimidation
tactics to block the Merkin deal, and making “absurd”
pronouncements about the settlement, which is sealed in court.
Picard accused Schneiderman of making an “end run” around
bankruptcy law with the settlement.  Picard began by threatening to sue the attorney general if
he didn’t “agree within 48 hours that the bankruptcy court
would have exclusive jurisdiction” over the fight, Schneiderman
said in court filings. Schneiderman refused, was sued and asked
Rakoff to take the case.  Last Month  Last month, Picard said Schneiderman made a secret
agreement allowing Merkin to use some of the settlement money to
help fend off Picard lawsuits demanding $500 million.  David Ellenhorn, a lawyer for Schneiderman, told Rakoff it
is “required, and appropriate” to pay Merkin’s lawyers for
facilitating the settlement, which requires Merkin to give up
$410 million of his personal assets. Most of the money will go
to Ponzi victims after Schneiderman recoups $5 million for three
years of litigation against Merkin, he said in a filing.  Picard, a bankruptcy lawyer, has challenged a state
attorney general before. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland 
sent him into mediation after his fight with California Attorney
General Kamala Harris over her $270 million lawsuit against an
alleged beneficiary of the Ponzi scheme. The mediation
continues.  ‘Extremely Unlikely’  Separately, Merkin has said Picard is “extremely
unlikely” to win his lawsuit against Merkin and his hedge
funds. Rakoff shouldn’t allow the trustee to block the
settlement because “in the unlikely event” that Picard does
win part of his suit, Merkin’s funds would still be able to pay
him, Merkin said in a filing.  Picard pays only former Madoff brokerage customers who lost
money. Investors who took more money out of the brokerage than
they put in don’t get paid. Nor do investors in hedge funds that
funneled some of the money to Madoff, as New York accused
Merkin’s funds of doing in the 2009 suit it settled.  New York’s suit alleged Merkin betrayed hundreds of
investors, including charities, by “recklessly” feeding money
to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme while falsely claiming he actively
managed their funds. Merkin controlled four funds that invested
more than $2 billion with Madoff, according to Schneiderman.  The case is Picard v. Schneiderman, 12-cv-06733, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  