-- New York City Appeals Soda Size Ban Court Defeat
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n ,   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-03-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/new-york-city-files-notice-of-appeal-over-soda-size-case.html
New York  City challenged a ruling
throwing out Mayor  Michael R. Bloomberg ’s proposal to restrict
sales of large-size soda drinks, calling the decision by a state
court judge “contrary to law.”  In a five-page notice of appeal, the city said it would
fight the March 11 ruling by New York Supreme Court Justice
Milton Tingling before the court’s appellate division in
 Manhattan . Tingling barred the ban from becoming law yesterday,
saying it had too many loopholes and violated the jurisdiction
of New York’s City Council.  “We are moving forward immediately with our appeal,” said
Michael A. Cardozo, corporation counsel of the city’s law
department. “We believe the judge was wrong in rejecting this
important  public health  initiative. We also feel he took an
unduly narrow view of the Board of Health’s powers.”  The city’s Board of Health in September approved the plan
to cap the size of sugary soft drinks sold in restaurants, movie
theaters, stadiums and arenas at 16 ounces (473 milliliters) a
cup. In October, groups representing beverage makers,
restaurants and theaters asked the court to quash the regulation
as “unprecedented interference” with consumer choice. Tingling
issued a permanent injunction barring the city from implementing
the plan.  “The loopholes in this rule effectively defeat the stated
purpose,” Tingling wrote. “It is arbitrary and capricious
because it applies to some but not all food establishments in
the city, it excludes other beverages that have significantly
higher concentrations of sugar sweeteners.”  City Overreached  The plaintiffs said the city had overreached and ignored
the rights of  New Yorkers  to make their own choices. The plan is
“grossly unfair” to small businesses such as street-food
vendors and pizzerias because convenience and grocery stores can
still sell the larger sizes, lawyers for the plaintiffs said.  The city argued it’s trying to stem an epidemic of obesity
driven by consumption of sugary beverages, which is rising
because food establishments sell ever-larger portions. Under the
rule, consumers are free to buy an unlimited number of smaller
drinks and get refills.  Bloomberg is the majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent of
 Bloomberg News .  Ordered Restrictions  The Board of Health last year ordered the restrictions put
in place. Food-service establishments would have had three
months to comply; after that, they would have faced a $200 fine
each time a city inspector found violations. The ban wouldn’t
have applied to  convenience stores , bodegas and groceries, which
are regulated by the state.  Since taking office in 2002, Bloomberg, 71, has made public
health a hallmark of his administration. He’s banned artery-
clogging trans-fat food additives and workplace smoking; raised
tobacco taxes; increased testing for HIV, cholesterol and blood
pressure; and required  restaurant chains  to post the calorie
content of menu items.  The mayor, a Republican-turned-independent, said such
actions have raised  life expectancy  in the city to almost 81 for
babies born in 2010, 2.2 years longer than the national average.  “When our administration implemented calorie counts and
worked to eliminate trans-fats in restaurants, we were taken to
court, but today both reforms are recognized as models,”
Bloomberg said yesterday during a news conference at Lucky’s
Restaurant in Manhattan, where the owners said they would
voluntary adopt the 16-ounce sugar-beverage limit. “Already our
proposal to limit the size of sugary beverages has changed the
national conversation around obesity and we are confident that
yesterday’s court decision will be reversed on appeal.”  Clear ‘Error’  At a press conference this morning, New York City Council
Speaker Christine Quinn, a Democrat, said, “It’s appropriate to
let the court do its job and rule on what the issues are there
relevant to the Board of Health’s power.”  “People who bet on Mike Bloomberg changing his mind on
this are probably on a losing side of a bet,” Quinn said. “I
suspect he will stick with the plan, make its way through the
court and we’ll see where we end up there.”  Quinn announced this week that she is running for her
party’s nomination in the mayoral election in November. She
didn’t address the judge’s assertion that the soda ban should
have been approved as a city council ordinance, rather than as a
decree by the mayor’s appointed Board of Health.  Quinn has received more than $10,000 in campaign
contributions from  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  employees.  Coca-Cola ‘Voice’  “Being a responsible corporate citizen means participating
in all aspects of our communities,” Coca-Cola said in a
statement. “That includes lending our voice to the political
process. We support candidates that promote fair policies that
enrich the communities and marketplaces where Coca-Cola
employees live and work.”  Boston barred sweetened soda and junk food from school
vending machines in 2004, and Mayor Thomas Menino last year
ordered a phased sugar-drink ban in all municipal buildings and
city-sponsored events.  San Francisco  and Los Angeles County have
also acted to reduce sugared-drink consumption, according to
Harvard University’s  School of Public Health .  A Feb. 28  Quinnipiac University poll  found that city voters
oppose the New York ban, 51 percent to 46 percent, with a 3.1
percentage-point error margin. A lobbying group backed by
consumers and industry executives, New Yorkers for Beverage
Choices, orchestrated a series of protests at  City Hall  last
year.  The case is New York Statewide Coalition of Hispanic
Chambers of Commerce v.  New York City  Department of Health and
Mental Hygiene, 653584-2012, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  