-- New Drugs Tempt Lupin to Spend Up to $1 Billion: Corporate India
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-03-13T10:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/new-drugs-tempt-lupin-to-spend-up-to-1-billion-corporate-india.html
Lupin Ltd. (LPC) , the drugmaker founded
by Indian billionaire Desh Bandhu Gupta, is seeking to acquire
brands in the U.S. to expand its most profitable business, and
may spend as much as $1 billion on a deal.  Lupin may buy a pediatric brand in the U.S. as well as a
company that makes generic products such as oral contraceptives
in Brazil, Managing Director Kamal Sharma said in an interview
in Mumbai. The U.S.  contributed  35 percent of Lupin’s sales in
the year to March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, which became the world’s biggest maker of
formulations to treat tuberculosis by copying drugs, is adding
to its portfolio of three patent-protected medicines after
failing to prevent  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  from selling a generic version of
its cholesterol therapy Antara. Profit margins for branded
treatments are double when compared with generics, according to
Hitesh Mahida, an analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers (India) Ltd.  “Brands, unlike generics, give them more opportunity to
venture into products where there’s less pricing competition,”
said Sarabjit Kour Nangra, an analyst at Angel Broking Ltd. in
 Mumbai . “Branded products result in higher marketing, sales and
legal costs, but equally they enjoy pricing power.”  Lupin, named after a leguminous flower, had 5 billion
rupees ($92 million) of cash as of Sept. 30, and will borrow to
fund acquisitions, Sharma said. The company will only make the
purchase if it’s confident it can recoup the investment in five
to seven years, he said. Sharma, 65, didn’t say if the company
is in talks with any firm for an acquisition.  Share Performance  The drugmaker’s  shares  have risen 41-fold in the past
decade, making it the third-best performer in the 40-company
 MSCI AC Asia Pacific Free/Health Care Index (MXAP0HC)  in the period. They
rose 0.1 percent to 600.35 rupees in Mumbai.  Lupin’s 50.94 price-to-cash flow ratio is the highest among
the world’s 34 largest generic drugmakers after  Momenta
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MNTA) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with the 19.11 average for its peers. Forty-two
analysts  recommend  buying the stock, one has a sell and 13 have
a hold rating.  “At the current level, the price is justifiable,” said
Bhagwan Singh Chaudhary, an analyst at India Nivesh Securities
Pvt. in Mumbai, who has a hold rating on the stock. “The
company will be able to maintain the top line growth, but when
it will come to the operating side, it will be tough for them
because of increasing research expenses and competition.”  A brand acquisition may help Lupin maintain margins. In
2009, it purchased the rights to Antara from the bankrupt
Oscient Pharmaceuticals Corp. for $38.6 million and bought
AllerNaze nasal spray from Collegium Pharmaceutical Inc.  Suprax Sales  Lupin started selling branded products in the U.S. in 2004
after acquiring the Suprax antibiotic from Pfizer Inc.’s Wyeth
unit.  “Lupin did a good job with Suprax, but they haven’t really
been able to replicate that anywhere else,” said Bino Pathiparampil, an analyst at IIFL Institutional Equities.  Lupin bolstered the Suprax brand by introducing it in forms
such as tablets, chewable pills and oral drops, which are
“likely to attract large potential pediatric prescriptions,”
according to a note sent to clients on Feb. 22 by Manoj Garg, an
analyst with Edelweiss Securities Ltd.  Antara will face generic competition after a U.S. court on
Feb. 28 upheld a lower court ruling that Mylan didn’t infringe
Lupin’s patents to the medicine, known by its active ingredient
fenofibrate. The capsules in the 43-milligram and 130-milligram
dosage forms had $60 million in sales in the 12 months ended
Sept. 30, Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based Mylan said Feb. 25,
citing researcher IMS Health.  ‘Future Profitability’  “Revenue from Antara will fall, and to bridge that and to
maintain future profitability, they’re aggressively looking for
brands now,” said Praful Bohra, an analyst at Nirmal Bang
Institutional Equities in Mumbai.  The company in July said it wants to purchase branded drugs
to treat skin diseases and infections. An acquisition in  Brazil 
and  Mexico  will help it tap the $45 billion Latin American
market, Sharma said. Lupin hasn’t made any acquisition since
2011.  “We would look at brands that overlap with pediatric care
and primary health care, because these are areas where we
already have competence,” Lupin’s Sharma said.  Earnings margins before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization for patent-protected, branded drugs average as much
as 50 percent compared with 25 percent for generic products,
according to Fortune Equity’s Mahida. Lupin reported an Ebitda
margin of 22.16 percent in the three months ended Dec. 31.  Lupin, established in 1968 by Chairman Gupta, a masters-
degree holder in chemistry, may report a 37 percent increase in
profit for the year to March 31, according to the median
estimate of 45 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “Brand extensions and launch of niche products are a
saving grace,” said Ranvir Singh, an analyst with
Sharekhan.com. “These measures could help Lupin substantially
mitigate the impact of competition in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  