-- Nike Said to Be Close to Deal to Make Roma’s Soccer Gear
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-03-13T18:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/nike-said-to-be-close-to-deal-to-make-gear-for-roma-soccer-team.html
(Corrects description of Nike in first paragraph in story
published yesterday.)  AS Roma (ASR)  and  Nike Inc. (NKE)  are set to
sign a long-term pact for the world’s largest supplier of
sporting goods to produce and market the Italian soccer team’s
apparel around the world, according to two people familiar with
the situation.  Nike will replace BasicNet SpA’s Kappa brand, which has
been the team’s technical sponsor since 2007, and place its
swoosh symbol on Roma’s jerseys and other team-wear from next
season, the people said, speaking anonymously because the deal
hasn’t been made public. They didn’t reveal financial terms.
Nike spokesman Charlie Brookes and Roma’s Catia Augelli declined
to comment.  Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike and  Germany ’s Adidas AG
dominate soccer markets in  Europe ’s five major leagues with the
exception of  Italy , where local brands Kappa, Macron and Errea
have had greater traction. Roma, which last year announced plans
to build a new stadium, has been negotiating with potential
partners for eight months after problems developed with some
products supplied by Kappa, one of the people said.  “This is a very crucial decision for the club because a
technical sponsor can ensure you global distribution, global
visibility, and help increase business,” Roma marketing
director Christoph Winterling said in a Feb. 22 interview,
though he declined to reveal the identity of the new partner.
“This deal will give the club a very, very important future.
Together with the technical sponsor, we will also invest in
different areas in and around the new stadium.”  Fund Manager  The agreement with Nike comes two years after a U.S.
investment group led by hedge fund manager James Pallotta became
the first foreign owners of an Italian soccer team. They’ve
revamped Roma’s commercial operations in an effort to increase
revenue to fuel the team’s on-field performances. The club
hasn’t won a league title since 2001 and is seventh after 28
games this season.  Still, guided by a management team that includes Mark Pannes, former head of sport at HSBC Private Bank, Roma has
sealed contracts with Volkswagen AG and Walt Disney Co.
Sponsorship in the first half of the 2012-13 fiscal year
generated 6.3 million euros ($8.2 million), up 8.6 percent from
a year earlier, the club said in a Feb. 28 filing.  “In terms of sponsorship deals and hospitality sales, we
have an increase of 20 percent,” Winterling said.  Roma joins Manchester United, Barcelona, Juventus and Paris
Saint-Germain, league leaders in their respective countries, in
Nike’s stable of affiliated teams. The agreement with Roma will
be similar to the one Nike has with Manchester United, said one
of the people.  United’s Agreement  Under the terms of that agreement, Nike pays the record 19-
time  English champion  a fixed royalty fee and 50 percent of all
profit from team-branded goods it sells around the world. Nike
and United are currently negotiating to extend a partnership
that started in 2002.  “We’re looking for more and more global companies, we know
that we need global companies for us to grow and for us to get
more money,” Winterling said at Roma’s training ground in
Trigoria, south of the capital. “The money is honestly very
limited in Italy if we want to grow, so we have to look for big
partners.”  Roma in December announced plans for a new stadium that
will seat between 55,000 and 60,000 spectators when it opens in
2016. Winterling said the facility is crucial to developing the
club’s growth strategy. The team currently shares the publicly
owned Stadio Olimpico with local rival SS Lazio.  “The new stadium will be a key factor in the growth in all
the commercial areas -- sponsorship, merchandising, licensing,
ticketing,” Winterling said.  To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at  tpanja@bloomberg.net  and Jeffrey
Donovan in Rome at  Jdonovan@bloomberg.net  