-- NIB Boosts Nordic Infrastructure Lending as Banks Retrench
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-03-12T13:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/nordic-investment-bank-to-resume-dividends-after-four-year-halt.html
The Nordic Investment Bank is
increasing funding for infrastructure projects in countries
surrounding the  Baltic Sea  as banks pare back corporate lending.  NIB paid out 2.4 billion euros ($3.1 billion) to projects
boosting competitiveness and preserving the environment last
year, the most in five years, the Helsinki-based supranational
infrastructure lender said on its  website  today.  “There’s still a credit crunch and there’s a need for a
long-term credit,” Chief Executive Officer Henrik Normann said
in an interview at the bank’s Helsinki headquarters. “We are
more relevant than ever amid slow economic growth.”  The AAA rated investment bank, backed by Nordic and Baltic
governments, funds infrastructure projects from port expansions
to wastewater treatment facilities and renewable energy
generation. Bank loans have become scarcer as tighter regulation
for the industry prompts deleveraging and increases the cost of
credit.  Waertsilae Oyj, which makes ship engines and  power plants ,
borrowed 50 million euros last month to further develop medium-
speed marine engines. Volvo AB is also tapping the lender’s
coffers for research and development funds to make engines
complying with emission rules.  “Some companies have more difficulties in getting
financing for R&D projects, more intangible projects,” Normann
said. “Our mandate is to improve competitiveness in the region
and R&D is one of the most important drivers to improve
competitiveness. We can see that the corporates have seen that
and are coming to us now.”  Dividend Resumed  NIB sold bonds worth about 4.4 billion euros last year, an
increase from 2.9 billion in 2011. Its full-year profit rose 7.7
percent to 209 million euros, allowing a payout to owners after
four years of no dividend payments.  The bank plans to return 52 million euros to its eight
government owners, of whom  Sweden ,  Denmark ,  Norway  and  Finland 
represent 95 percent of share capital. The bank’s last dividend
payment was 25 million euros paid for 2007. The rest of its
profit will be used to bolster the balance sheet.  “We are discounting uncertainty in our balance sheet,”
Normann said. “We have set aside reserves and increased
provisioning, not that we have lost money, but so that we have
funds if something goes wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  