-- North Korean Rights Abuses May Be Crimes Against Humanity
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2013-03-12T16:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/north-korean-rights-abuses-may-be-crimes-against-humanity.html
Human-rights abuses by  North Korea 
may constitute crimes against humanity, said Marzuki Darusman,
the United Nations investigator who uncovered violations in the
totalitarian state ranging from torture to arbitrary detention.  “Grave human-rights violations in the prison camps or the
mere existence of slave camps may amount to crimes against
humanity,” Darusman, the UN’s special rapporteur on the
situation of human rights in North Korea, told reporters in
Geneva today. “Many if not all of these nine patterns may
constitute crimes against humanity.”  Darusman told the  Human Rights Council  yesterday that his
eight-year probe had uncovered nine systematic patterns of
abuses including mass starvation, prison camps and no recourse
or judicial system for people accused of crimes. He urged the UN
to create an independent commission to investigate institutional
and personal accountability for human-rights violations and to
make recommendations to North Korean officials and the
international community for further action.  North Korea may be holding as many as 200,000 political
prisoners in camps with enforced labor where conditions are
“dire” and “horrid,” Darusman said. “These camps have the
purpose of driving the people detained there toward a slow
death,” he said.  Little Impact  Gerard Corr, Ireland’s permanent representative to the UN
who addressed the council yesterday on behalf of the European
Union, said the EU and  Japan  plan to present a resolution to
establish a commission of inquiry “to investigate the grave and
persistent violations of human rights” in North Korea.  Such a move is unlikely to bring about any change,
according to  Richard Gowan , associate director of  New York 
University’s Center on International Cooperation.  “The UN General Assembly has passed annual resolutions
censuring North Korea for its human-rights situation for a
decade, but it has made little or no difference on the ground,”
he said today in an e-mailed reply to questions. “Even if the
Human Rights Council tries to ratchet up the pressure, it’s
unlikely to make much of an impact -- although it may still be
the morally right thing to do.”  The North Korean representative to the 47-member council,
Kim Song, called the resolution “nothing more than an
instrument, a political plot” that is designed to create “an
atmosphere of international pressure under the pretext of human-
rights protection.”  ‘No Cooperation’  It would be the first resolution for a commission of
inquiry to probe human rights in North Korea. While Darusman’s
predecessor brought the idea up, there was never a resolution
because it was seen as being “incredibly divisive,” he said.  North Korea refused to give Darusman access during his
investigation and “there is a given assumption that there will
be no cooperation with the North Korean government,” the
special rapporteur said. “That much we can be sure of.”  Darusman said North Korea’s repression of its citizens has
been overshadowed by concerns about the country’s atomic
program. The government of Kim Jong Un has said it possesses
ballistic nuclear missiles that can target the U.S. and  South
Korea , and the North Korean leader told soldiers yesterday that
“every day is a state of war,” official media reported.  The rights situation under Kim, who succeeded his father
Kim Jong-Il in December 2011, has worsened in some respects,
Darusman said. The number of North Koreans fleeing their country
has “trickled down” as border controls have been tightened and
new laws have been passed to crack down further on citizens.  “The regime is becoming more and more rigid and harsh,”
Darusman said. “It’s a much more entrenched system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  