-- Notre Dame Switching to Atlantic Coast From Big East Next Season
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-12T16:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/notre-dame-switching-to-atlantic-coast-from-big-east-next-season.html
The  University of Notre Dame  will
join the  Atlantic Coast Conference  this year, leaving the  Big
East  Conference earlier than originally planned.  Notre Dame  will become an ACC member in all sponsored
sports except football on July 1, according to a joint release
from Big East Commissioner Mike Aresco and Notre Dame Athletic
Director Jack Swarbrick. The  South Bend ,  Indiana , school will
remain independent for football.  Aresco called the exit agreement an “acceptable
resolution,” without mentioning financial details.  Sports
Illustrated  reported yesterday that Notre Dame won’t pay a
traditional  exit fee , instead forgoing any claims to the roughly
$70 million that the Big East has accrued in entry and exit fees
from other schools.  “The Big East can now focus fully on its future alignment
and rebranding efforts,” Aresco said. “Notre Dame has been a
valued member of the Big East and we wish them well.”  Notre Dame said last September that it would join the ACC
as soon as it could exit the Big East. That includes the
school’s men’s basketball team, ranked No. 24 in this week’s
 Associated Press  poll, and women’s basketball team, ranked No. 2
in the AP poll behind Baylor.  Swarbrick said it was important to Notre Dame that its
departure come in a “collegial manner,” and he thanked the Big
East for its cooperation.  The Greensboro, North Carolina-based ACC is adding Notre
Dame, Pittsburgh and Syracuse this year to bring membership to
15 schools for the 2013-14 season. Maryland is scheduled to
leave for the Big Ten in 2014-15, and will be replaced by
Louisville.  Football Schedule  ACC Commissioner John Swofford said in a statement that the
five football games conference teams will play annually against
the Fighting Irish won’t begin until 2014. He said the ACC will
become the best basketball conference in the country.  “As we look towards the future, there’s no denying that
ACC basketball will continue to set even higher standards of
excitement and excellence,” Swofford said. “The competition
will be brutal, which is a great thing for our league and
fans.”  The ACC was able to accommodate Notre Dame because the
league’s basketball schedule hasn’t been completed for the
2013-14 season, Sports Illustrated said.  The Big East last week reached an exit agreement with seven
schools -- DePaul, Georgetown, Marquette, Providence,  Seton
Hall ,  St. John’s  and Villanova -- whose top sports program is
men’s basketball. The agreement clears the way for the so-called
Catholic 7 to start a new league and take the conference name
next season. The Big East formally approved the transfer of its
name today.  The 10 schools remaining in what now constitutes the Big
East, including Cincinnati and Connecticut, must come up with a
new name by July 1, according to Aresco.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 