-- Obama Says U.S. Well on Way to Goal of Doubling Exports by 2014
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-03-12T18:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/obama-says-u-s-well-on-way-to-goal-of-doubling-exports-by-2014.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
U.S. is “well on our way” toward doubling exports by the end
of 2014, a goal aided by pressing ahead with new trade
agreements in  Asia  and Europe.  Obama told business executives who are part of his advisory
council on exports that he’s “modestly optimistic” that U.S.
and European Union negotiators can reach a trans-Atlantic accord
in the wake of Europe’s financial crisis.  “They are hungrier for a deal than they have been in the
past” as European nations struggle to reignite economic growth,
the president said. “You’re going to see more pressure from
more countries” to get an accord and set aside agricultural
protections that have been a barrier to deals in the past.  Obama created the council in March 2010, laying out a goal
of doubling U.S.  exports  to about $3.14 trillion by the end of
2014 from $1.57 trillion in 2009. The president has said
reaching the goal would support 2 million additional jobs. Obama
is placing a focus on trade in his second term, after winning
congressional support in 2011 for accords with South Korea,
Colombia and Panama that were negotiated by President  George W. Bush ’s administration.  Obama said gains last year in agriculture, manufacturing
and high-technology exports have helped and the progress isn’t
limited to large corporations.  “Small businesses stand to benefit immensely from this
process,” he said.  50 Percent  The export council reported today that the U.S. has
achieved about “47 percent, 50 percent” of the goal, according
to Jim McNerney, chief executive officer of  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
chairman of the council.  Ursula Burns ,  Xerox Corp. (XRX) ’s CEO, is
vice chairman of the council.  The Obama administration has set goals of achieving trade
deals in the Atlantic and the Pacific.  The U.S. and European Union aim to complete trade talks
within two years on a deal that would expand their economic
relationship. The 27-nation EU says the accord will seek to
lower tariffs, ease regulatory barriers and expand access in
investment, services and public procurement, among other steps.  The EU plans to present draft negotiating plans this month
to kick-start the talks, which it says may lead to an accord
that will add 86 billion euros ($116 billion) a year to the
bloc’s economy.  While trade and investment between the U.S. and the EU was
valued at $4.5 trillion in 2011, the two governments have been
at odds over issues including  farm subsidies , health protections
and regulatory standards.  Asia Focus  The U.S. also is negotiating the Trans-Pacific Partnership
with 10 other nations, which is meant to increase America’s role
as a manufacturing center.  Obama also is meeting today with the Sultan of  Brunei ,
Hassanal Bolkiah, in preparation for October meetings of leaders
from Asian nations where the U.S. wants to broaden trade.  Negotiating both accords is possible because they are on
separate tracks, according to Ken Monahan, senior trade analyst
at Bloomberg Government. The nations seeking a Pacific trade
pact have targeted late this year to complete those talks, while
the U.S. and EU probably won’t reach an agreement until next
year at the earliest, he said.  Intellectual Property  Officials drafting the TPP agreement, which would create
the nation’s largest trade region, have reported progress on
lowering customs barriers and meshing health standards.
Negotiators are meeting in Singapore through March 13 for their
 16th round  of talks. Discussions cover issues including
financial services, the environment, intellectual property and
labor.  The trans-Pacific talks, if successful, will help create
“millions of jobs,” Obama said today.  The nations working to forge the regional accord with the
U.S. are Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Malaysia, Mexico,  New
Zealand ,  Peru , Singapore and Vietnam. U.S. automakers including
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  have said  Japan   shouldn’t
be allowed to participate until it further opens its auto market
to foreign competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  