-- Obama Welcomes Brunei Leader in Prelude to East Asia Summits
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-03-12T17:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/obama-welcomes-brunei-leader-in-prelude-to-east-asia-summits.html
President  Barack Obama  held White
House talks with the Sultan of  Brunei , Hassanal Bolkiah, as the
two leaders weigh how to move forward on a trade agreement
between the U.S. and 10 Asian nations.  “Our interest in have a strong, peaceful, prosperous Asia-
Pacific region is something we share,” Obama said after today’s
discussions. The two leaders planned a private lunch afterwards.  Brunei is hosting the October East Asia summit and the
U.S.-Association of Southeast Asian Nations summit in Bandar
Seri Begawan, the capital and largest city in Brunei. The tiny
Southeast Asian nation on the island of Borneo has one of the
highest standards of living in the world because of its wealth
of oil and gas exports.  Those exports from Brunei’s $78 billion economy contribute
about 90 percent of all government revenue, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  The two leaders were also scheduled to discuss ways to move
forward on the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a region-wide free
trade pact among 10 nations and the U.S. that the White House is
pushing to complete by the end of this year. Obama has set a
goal of doubling U.S. exports worldwide to $3.14 trillion by the
end of 2014 from $1.57 trillion in 2009.  The sultan’s visit reflects Obama’s focus on ensuring
peace, stability and prosperity of the Asia-Pacific region, the
White House said in a statement.  Climate Change  Obama said the summits will deal with issues such as
“energy and climate change to how we expand commerce” through
the proposed Trans-Pacific  trade  deal.  The sultan was also scheduled to hold separate talks with
Secretary of Energy Steven Chu and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel. The sultan met with Secretary of State  John Kerry 
yesterday on issues including the  South China Sea , energy and
climate change.  Obama attended the East Asia Summit in Bali,  Indonesia , in
2011. Former Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  visited Brunei
in September to discuss disputes between China and neighbors in
the South and East China Seas, including U.S. allies Japan and
the Philippines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  