-- Obama Said to Release Fiscal 2014 Budget Week of April 8
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-03-12T19:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/obama-said-to-release-fiscal-2014-budget-week-of-april-8-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  will send
his fiscal 2014 budget to Congress the week of April 8, an
administration official said today, more than two months late.  The president’s spending blueprint was due on Feb. 4. The
administration said last month that the debate over taxes and
spending at the end of last year, combined with across-the-board
spending cuts that kicked in March 1, would delay its release.  The  budget , which is an outline of Obama’s priorities,
would be for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. The official
asked for anonymity because an announcement hasn’t been made and
declined to be more specific  The delay may not change the political debate over fiscal
issues since Obama and congressional Republicans remain
deadlocked over spending and taxes and how to cut the deficit.  The president drew criticism from Senate Republican Leader
 Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  and House Speaker  John Boehner , an
 Ohio Republican , for failing to get the budget to Congress
sooner.  “I hope that’s not a reflection of a lack of
seriousness,” McConnell said. “But it is beyond tardy.”  The president has stepped up engagement with Congress to
press his priorities and try to reach a budget deal. He met at
the Capitol today with Senate Democrats behind closed doors. He
left without making any statement. He’ll return there tomorrow
and Thursday to meet with the House Republican conference,
Senate Republican conference and the House Democratic Caucus.  Deficit Plan  The president has said he’s planning to again seek many of
the same proposals for spending and for deficit reduction that
were contained in last year’s $3.8 trillion budget, which was
never adopted by Congress.  “What the president’s budget proposal will do, as his
previous proposals have done, is achieve the economically
important goal of bringing our debt-to-GDP down below 3
percent,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said today.  The  Congressional Budget Office  last month projected the
deficit for the current fiscal year would be $845 billion, or
5.3 percent of the gross domestic product.  Obama’s budget may also get little attention in Congress
because lawmakers in the House and Senate are now compiling
their own budget proposals, even before Obama submits his.  Ryan Budget  U.S. House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, unveiled his proposal for  taxes  and spending today
that he said would end the deficit within a decade by cutting
$4.6 trillion out of Medicaid,  food stamps , Pell college tuition
grants and other programs.  Ryan’s plan is similar to previous proposals and will
probably be rejected in the Senate, where the majority Democrats
have long complained that his proposals take too much from the
poor while asking too little of the wealthy.  Carney said the Republican math “doesn’t add up” and
would put a greater burden on middle-income Americans.  Under the annual process in Congress, lawmakers pass their
budget plan, though it’s non-binding and isn’t signed by the
president. It sets broad policy goals for implementation by
committees in 12 annual spending bills. Those measures are
submitted to the president for his signature.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  