-- Obama to Ask Supreme Court to Settle Recess-Power Dispute
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-13T16:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/obama-to-ask-supreme-court-to-settle-recess-power-dispute.html
The Obama administration will ask
the U.S. Supreme Court to reverse a ruling by a three-judge
panel that the president violated the Constitution by making
appointments to the federal labor board without Senate approval.  The  National Labor Relations Board , in a three-sentence
statement yesterday, said it won’t seek review by the full  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in  Washington  of a Jan. 25 ruling that
President  Barack Obama ’s 2012 board appointments were
unconstitutional. The board said it instead intends to file a
petition with the high court by April 25.  “There are scads of other cases now working their way
through the courts of appeals and this is a way of putting the
matter to rest,” John Elwood, a former Justice Department
official now at Vinson & Elkins LLP in Washington, said in an e-
mail. “This is what the government did in the Obamacare case as
well. Rather than seek rehearing in the 11th Circuit, it went
straight to the  Supreme Court .”  The labor board picks were “constitutionally invalid”
because the Senate wasn’t in recess at the time, the unanimous
panel held. Two of the judges went further, saying valid
appointments could only be made for vacancies that occurred
while the Senate was adjourned.  More Challenges  In the near-term, the ruling may be used to challenge about
600 decisions and orders by the NLRB since January 2012,
according to Lafe Solomon, acting general counsel for the board.
Hundreds of earlier decisions by other recess appointees could
also be attacked, he said.  At least eight cases were put on hold by judges in the U.S.
Court of Appeals in Washington while the Obama administration
considered its options. A federal appeals court in Philadelphia
is scheduled to hear arguments in a labor board challenge on
March 19. The U.S. Appeals Court in Richmond,  Virginia , has
scheduled argument in two cases for March 22 and has one other
awaiting argument.  Some courts that have already heard arguments may hold off
on issuing a decision while awaiting Supreme Court’s ruling,
Elwood said.  The White House has said the ruling applies only to the
company in the case, and won’t affect regulations issued by the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, whose director,  Richard Cordray , was named as a recess appointee at the same time as the
labor board members. Cordray’s appointment is being challenged
in A lawsuit brought in federal court in Washington by a Texas
bank and two nonprofit groups whose self-described mission is
promoting limited government.  Clinton, Bush  In recent years, Democratic President  Bill Clinton  made 139
recess appointments, while Republican President George W. Bush
made 171 and Obama, a Democrat, has made 32, according to the
 Congressional Research Service .  The appeals court ruling came in a case brought by Noel
Canning Corp., a soda bottling company, over an NLRB decision in
a collective-bargaining agreement. The company argued that a
recess only occurs in the period between one session of Congress
and the next, not when members are simply absent and the Senate
hasn’t adjourned.  Miguel Estrada , a lawyer representing Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell  and 41 other Republican senators opposing
the appointments, said the administration should have made
yesterday’s decision in February and sought an expedited review
so the court might have ruled this summer.  Administration Motive  “The administration obviously thinks it benefits from
playing for time while invalidly appointed board members
continue to exercise governmental power, or else the
administration is afraid of the answer it will get from the
Supreme Court,” Estrada, a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher
LLP in Washington, said in an e-mail.  The Washington ruling stands against decisions by three
sister courts supporting the recess-appointment power, one of
which warned that “executive paralysis” would result
otherwise.  The Washington court panel was made up of three Republican
appointees. It was the first time a federal appeals court ruled
the Constitution limits the president’s power to make recess
appointments to the period between sessions of Congress, and
only if that vacancy arises during that period.  Bush Pick  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta rejected similar
arguments in 2004 by Democratic Senator  Ted Kennedy  when it
upheld President  George W. Bush ’s recess pick of U.S. Circuit
Judge William Pryor.  U.S. appeals courts in  Manhattan  and San Francisco have
also approved a more expansive use of the appointment power in
rulings involving nominations made by President Dwight Eisenhower, a Republican, and President  Jimmy Carter , a
Democrat.  The split among the circuits makes it more probable that
the Supreme Court will take up the case.  The case is Noel Canning v. National Labor Relations Board,
12-1115, 12-1153, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 