-- Bank Lobbyists Dispute $83 Billion Subsidy. They’re Wrong
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-12T18:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/lobbyists-dispute-our-83-billion-argument-they-re-wrong.html
The finance industry’s lobbyists
have publicly challenged our estimate that the largest U.S.
banks receive an annual taxpayer subsidy worth $83 billion.
We’re glad for the discussion. Understanding this issue is
central to fixing the global financial system.  In an  editorial  last month, we wrote that recurrent
bailouts of the largest financial institutions have given them a
unique advantage: They get a break on their borrowing costs,
because creditors expect taxpayers to support them whenever they
get into trouble. Making some reasonable assumptions and
employing  research  by two economists, Kenichi Ueda of the
 International Monetary Fund  and Beatrice Weder di Mauro of the
University of Mainz, we put a dollar value on this too-big-to-
fail subsidy.  Although other approaches can produce different numbers,
most experts --  including  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  -- concur that the subsidy is significant and should be
eliminated. It gives banks an incentive to become big and
threatening enough to warrant bailouts, and encourages an
oversupply of credit that leads to problems such as the crises
in U.S. subprime lending and European sovereign debt.  Funding Advantage  In a March 11  missive , five trade groups representing the
banks questioned the existence of the subsidy. Even if it did
exist, they argued, it was tiny and the Dodd-Frank financial-
reform legislation adopted in mid-2010 did away with it. The
brief cited an IMF staff  report  that estimated large banks’
funding advantage to be much smaller than what Ueda and Di
Mauro’s research suggested. It then offered three pieces of
evidence that the subsidy has since disappeared -- a  briefing  by
 Standard & Poor’s  and  two   studies  by economists Ken Cyree of the
 University of Mississippi  and Bhanu Balasubramnian of the
University of Akron.  Let’s take a closer look. The trade groups say we should
believe the 2010 IMF staff report because it’s newer than the
“stale and unreliable” data in Ueda and Di Mauro’s working
paper, and because the latter included a disclaimer that it
“should not be reported as representing the views of the IMF.”
Not quite. Ueda and Di Mauro’s early research, later developed
into the 2012 working paper, formed part of the basis for the
staff report’s estimate. If the data in the working paper were
stale, then the report would be more so. The disclaimer is
standard boilerplate for IMF working papers.  When it comes to the S&P briefing, we can only urge the
lobbyists to look at it again. They claim it shows that too-big-
to-fail banks are paying a premium to borrow. Actually, the
briefing is about the difference in yield between the bonds of
banks and similarly rated industrial corporations. In no way
does this address whether taxpayer support makes big banks’
borrowing costs lower than they otherwise would be.  Finally, the two papers by Cyree and Balasubramnian
represent good-faith efforts that the authors readily admit are
far from ideal. They found that big banks’ borrowing costs
increased relative to those of small banks in the second half of
2010, and attributed the change to Dodd-Frank’s elimination of
the subsidy. They employed data on 30 banks, only 11 of which
were not too big to fail, a small sample that might have skewed
the estimated funding advantages of the bigger institutions.
Also, their statistical controls could have missed important
factors -- such as the brewing  European debt crisis  -- that
might have had a differential effect on the borrowing costs of
the biggest banks.  As Cyree put it: “I can’t tell you that this is strictly
due to Dodd-Frank.”  Separate Test  Of course, no statistical study is perfect, particularly
when dealing with something as difficult to estimate as the bank
subsidy. That said, a paper by three economists -- Viral Acharya
of  New York University , Deniz Anginer of  Virginia Tech  and A.
Joseph Warburton of  Syracuse University  -- looked at a larger
sample of financial institutions and found that the too-big-to-
fail subsidy amounted to almost $100 billion in 2010, the year
Dodd-Frank was signed into law. The paper also included a
separate test, which looked at bond yields immediately before
and after the House and Senate reconciled their versions of the
bill. It suggested that Dodd-Frank might have actually increased
the subsidy.  Who’s right? Well, given that Dodd-Frank has been
significantly delayed and watered down, it’s hard to imagine
that the too-big-to-fail problem has been solved. The law’s
designation of certain financial institutions as systemically
important might even increase expectations of support. U.S.
regulators have yet to offer a plausible road map of how such
institutions could be liquidated in an orderly manner or set
 capital requirements  that would make them less likely to fail.  What’s at stake is clear. As we said in our editorial, the
taxpayer subsidy is lucrative enough to be a major driver of the
largest banks’ profits, helping to justify hundreds of millions
of dollars in political spending every election cycle. In the
absence of subsidies, more shareholders might wonder why banks
need to be so large that their executives can’t manage them
effectively -- a reality made clear by last year’s multibillion-
dollar trading loss in a unit that was supposed to be investing
cash and mitigating risk at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  If big banks don’t get a subsidy on their debt, it’s hard
to understand why they’re so adamantly opposed to measures, such
as increased capital requirements, that would put a limit on
their borrowing. Large banks commonly borrow $25 or more for
each $1 in equity -- or capital -- they get from their
shareholders, compared with less than 50 cents per $1 of equity
for the average U.S. corporation. This extreme leverage isn’t
the historical norm, and makes the entire system much more
vulnerable to crises. As a recent  book  by financial economists
Anat Admati and Martin Hellwig explains, a higher equity level
has a negative effect on a bank’s funding costs only if some
kind of subsidy has made borrowing artificially cheap.  Requiring banks to have a lot more equity -- we have
 recommended  $1 for each $5 in assets -- would reduce whatever
taxpayer subsidy they receive. It would also make the entire
financial system much safer. What are we waiting for?  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 