-- Odinga Seeks Phone Data to Prove Flaws in Kenya President Vote
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-03-12T11:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/odinga-seeks-phone-data-to-prove-flaws-in-kenya-president-vote.html
Kenya’s defeated presidential
candidate Raila Odinga is seeking evidence from mobile-phone
operator  Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM)  and the country’s election commission to
support his case that last week’s voting process was flawed.  Odinga asked in the High Court for Safaricom to provide
information on mobile handsets it sold to the election
commission and text-messages sent on its network during the
March 4 elections, Jonathan Arwa, his lawyer, said today.  Safaricom said on March 6 it was hired to provide network
services, including a secure link, to relay results from polling
stations and counties to the national tallying center in
Nairobi. At no time did its network fail, Chief Executive
Officer Bob Collymore said in an e-mailed statement. The company
also delivered 17,900 phones to the commission.  The electoral commission declared Uhuru Kenyatta, the son
of  Kenya ’s founding father, the winner with 50.07 percent of
votes cast, narrowly avoiding a two-way runoff. Odinga rejected
the outcome, citing a breakdown in electronic voting safeguards
and allegations the number of ballots was inflated. He plans to
ask the Supreme Court to overturn the results.  The outgoing prime minister is also seeking the
commission’s final list of registered voters and a copy of its
contract with Safaricom, Arwa said today during a hearing at the
High Court in Nairobi.  Odinga’s legal team must first serve legal papers to the
commission and Safaricom, Judge Isaac Lenaola said. He postponed
the case until 8 a.m. tomorrow.  Odinga has until March 16 to file a petition challenging
the results of the presidential election, after which the
Supreme Court would need to issue a verdict within two weeks. If
it rules the vote invalid then a new one must be held within 60
days, according to the constitution.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  