-- Toho Titanium Considers Plant Outside Japan to Cut Energy Bill
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2013-03-12T02:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/toho-titanium-considers-plant-outside-japan-to-cut-energy-bill.html
Toho Titanium Co. (5727)  may build a
factory outside  Japan  for the first time as it seeks to escape
escalating energy costs brought on by the Fukushima disaster.  The company, whose products are turned into lightweight and
corrosion-resistant parts used in everything from Boeing Co.’s
787 Dreamliner airplane to desalination plants, may spend
several hundred million dollars to build the overseas plant in
either  Malaysia  or another lower-cost site, Chief Executive
Officer Kiyonobu Sugiuchi said in a March 8 interview.　  “It will be tough for us to operate plants just in
Japan,” Sugiuchi said in the interview in Chigasaki, south of
Tokyo. “We used to insist on staying in Japan.”  Toho Titanium’s possible move abroad highlights the
challenges facing high-energy consumers such as steelmakers and
chemical companies following the shutdown of almost all Japan’s
nuclear reactors after Fukushima two years ago. Japan last year
paid 6 trillion yen ($62 billion) for liquefied natural gas
imports, or 73 percent more than two years earlier, as the
nation turned to alternative power plants.  Higher titanium ore prices have pushed up raw material
costs for the titanium industry. The cost of titanium ore
delivered from  Australia  has tripled to $1,550 per metric ton in
the past three years, according to Metal Bulletin data.  Ore, Electricity Costs  Ore costs and a higher bill for electricity pushed Toho
Titanium’s operating profit down by 1.9 billion yen in the six
months ended Sept. 30, the company said in a Nov. 9 statement.  The Japan Titanium Society, together with eight other
domestic industry groups, in January urged the nation’s trade
ministry to take measures, including subsidies and the
resumption of nuclear plants, to alleviate cost increases.  Waning demand for titanium from industrial plant users is
making it difficult to pass on increased costs to domestic
customers, Sugiuchi said. Titanium ingot prices may fall for the
first time in three years or at best match year-ago levels in
the fiscal year beginning April 1, Sugiuchi said.  In addition to higher energy and raw material costs, the
grounding of Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner since Jan. 16 after battery
failures is adding pressure.  Boeing’s new aircraft, which is built with light carbon-
fiber materials instead of aluminum to boost efficiency, uses
titanium in roughly 14 percent of the total airframe, according
to Boeing’s  website .  Titanium use has been expanded in the 787 because it is
resistant to corrosion, has minimal fatigue concerns and can
withstand comparable loads better than aluminum, Boeing says.  Dreamliner Titanium Use  Japanese companies have a record 35 percent production
share of the 787’s body.  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) , IHI
Corp.,  Toray Industries Inc. (3402)  and Osaka Titanium Technologies Co.
are among companies involved in the plane’s construction.  The possibility that Boeing’s battery woes will tarnish the
Dreamliner’s reputation is of great concern, Sugiuchi said.  “If successful, other planes will be made using similar
construction methods, leading to greater demand for titanium,”
Sugiuchi said. “It would be a problem if they don’t succeed
with the plane.”  The grounding of the 787 will have no immediate impact on
earnings because the U.S. planemaker is continuing with
production even amid the investigation, Sugiuchi said.  Toho will deepen output cuts to 30 percent in April and
will keep factory operations lower than normal for the next 12
months as it awaits a recovery, Sugiuchi said.  The company will post a first-half loss on a slump in
operations and higher electricity prices, Kazumasa Okumoto, an
analyst at Credit Suisse AG, said in a Feb. 28 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in  Tokyo  at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  