-- Tombini Says Brazil CPI Very Resilient Since July 2012
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-03-12T17:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/tombini-says-brazil-cpi-very-resilient-since-july-2012-1-.html
Brazil ’s inflation has remained
“very resilient” since the second half of 2012, central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said four days after the government
eliminated taxes on staples to rein in consumer prices.  Food and services are the main sources of price pressure as
a drop in poverty and a growing middle class boost demand,
Tombini said today. Before starting his speech in Warsaw,
Tombini made a disclaimer that he was in a “blackout period”
for monetary policy because the minutes of the last interest
rate decision will be published this week.  Inflation “has been very resilient since the second half
of last year and so it remains,” Tombini said. Brazil’s new
emerging middle class “has put pressure on the economy.”  Policy makers kept the benchmark  interest rate  at a record
low 7.25 percent last week for a third straight meeting as they
are caught between a fragile economic recovery and faster-than-
expected inflation. Consumer prices rose more than analysts
predict for an eighth straight month, pushing the annual rate to
6.31 percent in February.  Yields on swap rates maturing January 2014 rose as much as
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.89 percent,
after Tombini’s comments and a report showing use of installed
capacity grew more than analysts forecast. Yields had fallen as
much as four basis points earlier.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration exempted basic
food staples from federal taxes last week in a bid to rein in
consumer prices without jeopardizing Brazil’s economic recovery.
Brazil’s economy grew by 0.9 percent last year, the slowest pace
since contracting in 2009.  In a March 6 statement accompanying the decision to leave
the key rate at 7.25 percent, the central bank removed a plan to
keep monetary conditions stable for a “sufficiently prolonged”
period, prompting traders to increase bets on a rate rise in
April.  Growth in  Latin America ’s largest economy will rebound to
at least 3 percent this year on the back of stronger investment,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said March 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  