-- Lloyds to Reap $596 Million From St. James’s Stake Sale
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-03-12T16:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/lloyds-to-reap-596-million-from-st-james-s-place-stake-sale.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  will reap
a gain of 400 million pounds ($596 million) from the sale of
part of its stake in  St. James’s Place Plc (STJ)  as U.K. lenders face
pressure from regulators to bolster capital.  Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, which will retain 37
percent of St. James’s Place, sold 102 million shares in the
company, realizing a gain at the upper end of its projection of
350 million pounds to 400 million pounds, the London-based bank
said in a statement today. The shares sold for 510 pence apiece.  Lloyds Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio is
reducing the bank’s balance sheet to enhance its financial
strength after it was bailed out by the U.K. taxpayer during the
banking crisis. The so-called non-core division has shrunk 49
percent to 98 billion pounds in the past two years. Lloyds
acquired St. James’s Place when it bought HBOS Plc in 2008.  “The financial implications are relatively minor for
Lloyds, but may prove helpful as the company seeks to convince
regulators that it has enough capital to support lending and
resume dividend payments to ordinary shareholders,” Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital Ltd. in Liverpool,
Britain, with a buy rating, wrote in a note to clients today.  Sale Demand  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  signaled in November
U.K. banks may need to increase the capital they hold against
potential losses. He asked the Financial Services Authority to
investigate which banks might be undercapitalized.  The Financial Policy Committee meets on March 19 and will
publish a statement on bank capital shortages March 27, with the
full minutes of the meeting being released on April 5.  The sale will boost Lloyds’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a
measure of financial strength, by 20 basis points, or about 600
million pounds, it said. The ratio was 12 percent at the end of
2012. Under forthcoming Basel III capital rules, the sale will
add 500 million pounds, or 15 basis points, the bank said.  The sale had demand for about twice the number of shares on
offer, said a person with knowledge of the matter, who asked not
to be identified because the details are private. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch was the sole manager of the transaction.  St. James’s Place, which advises clients with typically
more than 100,000 pounds to invest, has more than doubled funds
under management over the last five years as economic turmoil
and a changing tax burden in the U.K. prompted high earners to
look for investment advice. The firm charges annual fees for
investing clients’ assets in third-party funds.  St. James’s Place closed at 519.50 pence in  London , down
3.2 percent on the day. The shares have gained 23 percent this
year. Lloyds  advanced  1.2 percent to 50.60 pence, bringing
annual gains to 5.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  