-- Pentagon Sees Cyber Teams in Combat Units, Alexander Says
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-03-12T17:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/pentagon-sees-cyber-teams-in-combat-units-alexander-says.html
U.S. military commanders soon will
be able to summon teams of cybersecurity specialists to carry
out defensive and offensive computer operations, according to a
Defense Department official.  The teams will focus on missions such as protecting vital
computer networks from attacks, supporting combat operations and
keeping the Pentagon’s information-technology systems secure,
Army General Keith Alexander, the U.S. Cyber Command chief, told
the Senate Armed Service Committee today in prepared testimony.  “The teams are analogous to battalions in the Army and
Marine Corps -- or squadrons in the Navy and Air Force,” said
Alexander, who also leads the National Security Agency. “In
short, they will soon be capable of operating on their own, with
a range of operational and intelligence skill sets, as well as a
mix of military and civilian personnel.”  Alexander’s remarks cast more light on a Pentagon plan
announced in 2010 to expand its cybersecurity capabilities and
make such computer-based work an operational domain similar to
that of air, land and sea. The teams described today are part of
“normalizing cyber operations,” the general said.  “We have no choice but to normalize cyberspace operations
within the U.S. military and make them part of the capability
set of our senior policymakers and commanders,” Alexander said.
“When we have built this high-quality, certified, and
standardized force, we will be able to present cyber forces with
known capability sets to our combatant commanders.”  Shielding Banks  The operations would include shielding banks and power
grids from attacks when ordered by the president to do so, and
assisting with military operations to disable the computer
networks of adversaries abroad, Alexander said.  Hacker attacks against the U.S. sponsored by other
governments “continue to top our list of concerns,” he said.
The Cyber Command believes al-Qaeda or other terrorist groups
“have the intent to harm the United States via cyber means,”
although their capability hasn’t matched their intentions,
according to Alexander.  The prospect of attacks by hostile hackers or an “isolated
state” topped the list of global threats to the U.S. cited in
an annual report to Congress today by James Clapper, the U.S.
director of national intelligence.  President  Barack Obama ’s national security adviser, Thomas Donilon, said yesterday that cyber attacks “emanating from
China on an unprecedented scale” and aimed at U.S. companies
have become a point of contention with the Chinese government.  Nuclear Weapons  Also appearing before the Senate panel, Air Force General
C. Robert Kehler, head of U.S. Strategic Command, said the
Defense Department doesn’t know whether the Chinese or Russian
governments would be able to block hackers from launching one of
their nuclear weapons.  The Pentagon intends to further examine the matter, Keller
said.  Kehler said he is confident U.S. nuclear weapons are
adequately protected from an unauthorized effort to trigger a
launch.  “I am confident today that the nuclear command and control
system and the nuclear weapons platforms themselves do not have
a significant vulnerability,” Kehler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 