-- Peugeot Cuts Two Executives From Board in Turnaround Push
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-03-12T16:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/peugeot-cuts-two-executives-from-board-in-push-for-turnaround.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-largest carmaker, cut its management board to four
executives from six as Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin
streamlines management in a push to end auto losses.  “To ensure the efficient implementation of the group’s
strategy, a leaner management board has been set up” around
Varin, the Paris-based company said today in a statement. The
changes, which come with Varin up for a contract extension, will
take effect April 2.  Frederic Saint Geours, a board member since June 2009 who
most recently led sales, will leave the carmaker’s top executive
body and continue as a special adviser, the company said.
Guillaume Faury, Peugeot’s development chief who also joined the
board in June 2009, will leave the manufacturer.  Peugeot last month pledged to cut its cash-consumption rate
50 percent in 2013 and reach the break-even level by 2014 after
burning through 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) last year. The
carmaker plans to reduce its French automotive workforce 17
percent in the next two years as the European car market,
already at almost a two-decade low, shrinks in 2013 for a sixth
consecutive year.  “It’s not a bad thing that they streamlined the top
management,” said Jens Schattner, an analyst at Macquarie
 Europe  Ltd. in  Frankfurt . “But this is just a reshuffling.”  Peugeot  gained  13 cents, or 2 percent, to 6.67 euros in
Paris trading today. The stock has surged 22 percent this year,
valuing the company at 2.37 billion euros.  Sharper Differentiation  Peugeot is betting its turnaround on a sharper
differentiation between the Peugeot and Citroen brands,
including an expansion of Citroen’s upscale DS line. The French
manufacturer is also seeking cost savings from a development and
purchasing alliance with  General Motors Co. (GM)   As part of Peugeot’s management restructuring, the heads of
the Peugeot and Citroen brands will report directly to Varin and
take responsibility directly for sales. The CEO also assigned
the three remaining management board members with meeting
strategic targets.  Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon, the finance chief, will be
responsible for returning Latin American operations to profit.
Gregoire Olivier, head of Asia, will push for profitable growth
in  Russia  and expand production operations outside Europe and
Latin America. Jean-Christophe Quemard, executive vice president
for programs, will target lowering production costs and oversee
the development of the GM cooperation.  CEO Contract  Varin’s contract will be extended “without a doubt” when
the board takes up his reappointment in May, Co-Vice Chairman
Jean-Philippe Peugeot said last month. The Peugeot family, which
controls the manufacturer, backs the recovery plan and
understands that it may take some time to complete, he said.  Peugeot reported a loss before interest, taxes and one-time
gains or costs of 576 million euros in 2012, even though targets
for spending cuts and proceeds from asset sales exceeded the
company’s expectations.  The company has suffered more than other caramaker’s from a
decline in European auto demand because it lacks major
operations outside the region. The carmaker will work toward
delivering 50 percent of its vehicles outside Europe by 2015,
Varin said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  