-- Podolski Is Target for Juventus, Atletico Madrid: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-03-12T10:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/podolski-is-target-for-juventus-atletico-madrid-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet
links.  Podolski Plan  Arsenal forward  Lukas Podolski  has fallen out of favor with
manager Arsene Wenger after joining the Gunners last year, and
is being watched by Juventus and  Atletico Madrid ,  the Sun said .  The German has scored 13 times this season since signing
for 10.9 million pounds ($16.2 million) from Cologne, the
newspaper said. Juventus may be willing to pay 15 million
pounds, and can increase his 100,000 pounds-a-week pay, the Sun
said.  The 27-year-old has injured his ankle and will probably
miss Arsenal’s  Champions League  match with his former club
Bayern Munich tomorrow, the newspaper added. Wenger thinks
Podolski could work harder in matches, the Sun said. The
player’s last three league appearances have been as a
substitute.  Modric to United?  Former Tottenham midfielder Luka Modric would be keen on a
future switch to  Manchester United  from Real Madrid,  the Daily
Mail said.   The 27-year-old scored against United last week to help
drive the Premier League leaders out of the Champions League,
and remains a target for manager  Alex Ferguson , the newspaper
said.  United tried to sign Modric two years ago, the Mail said.
He moved to Madrid for 33 million pounds last summer, but has
struggled to get into the starting lineup at the Spanish team,
the newspaper said.  Taylor for England?  Newcastle defender  Steven Taylor  may play his first match
with England’s senior national team later this month after
recovering from a long-term hamstring injury,  the Guardian said.   Taylor may be selected by manager  Roy Hodgson  for the World
Cup qualifying games against San Marino and Montenegro, the
newspaper said. Taylor, 27, was captain of England’s under-21
team, but injuries have kept him from playing for the senior
squad, the Guardian said.  Top-Five Target  Liverpool captain  Steven Gerrard  said his club needs a
“perfect finish” to reach the top five in the Premier League
and qualify for European competitions, the Telegraph said.  The team is seven points behind fourth-place Chelsea,
having played one additional game, and is hoping to sneak in
after three straight league victories, the newspaper said.  Liverpool’s final games this season may look easier than
those for the teams around it, but the 2-0 loss at home to West
Brom last month means the club can’t relax, Gerrard said.  Wilshere Out  Arsenal midfielder  Jack Wilshere  won’t be available for the
Gunners’ Champions League match with Bayern because of an ankle
injury,  the Daily Mirror said.   The 21-year-old was hurt in the 2-1 loss at Tottenham and
won’t participate in tomorrow night’s game, where Arsenal will
attempt to overturn a 3-1 deficit to the German league leader,
the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  