-- Police Failed to Communicate About Jimmy Savile Allegations
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-03-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/police-failed-to-communicate-about-jimmy-savile-allegations.html
U.K. police around the country
failed to share details of allegations of sexual abuse against
Jimmy Savile, allowing the former British Broadcasting Corp.
television star’s crimes to go undetected during his lifetime.  In addition to communication failures, Her Majesty’s
Inspectorate of Constabulary said in a report today that only
five allegations of sexual assault related to Savile were made
to police between 1955 and 2009, raising “serious concerns over
why so many victims felt unable to come forward.”  Savile, who died in 2011 at the age of 84, committed more
than 200 criminal sexual-abuse offenses at the  BBC , over a dozen
hospitals, mental homes and a hospice, the Metropolitan Police
Service said in a separate report in January. The Crown
Prosecution Service said it could have filed three cases against
Savile in 2008 if police had conducted investigations properly.  “The case against Savile would have been better informed
and made more compelling if the various strands had been brought
together in one investigation,” and given to prosecutors “as a
whole,” the HMIC, which assesses police forces across the
country, said in its report today.  The report, commissioned by Home Secretary Theresa May,
examined five allegations of criminal conduct and two pieces of
“intelligence information,” made against Savile at different
U.K. police forces while he was alive.  ‘Jim’ll Fix It’  Savile, who starred on BBC shows including “Top of the
Pops” and “Jim’ll Fix It,” engaged in the conduct until at
least two years before his death when he put his hand up the
skirt of a 43-year-old woman on a train, the MPS has said. His
youngest victim was an 8-year-old boy and most were girls
between 13 and 16.  The CPS said earlier this month that it would start a panel
to re-investigate historic allegations of misconduct that police
chose not to pursue.  “The findings in this report are of deep concern, and
clearly there were mistakes,” Drusilla Sharpling, an HMIC
inspector, said in an e-mailed statement. “More needs to be
done, and it is neither enough nor correct to say ‘this couldn’t
happen now.’”  The BBC was plunged into crisis after competitor  ITV Plc (ITV) 
aired a story in October about five women who said they were
abused by Savile, which triggered the police investigation.
Former BBC Director General George Entwistle stepped down Nov.
10 as a result of the scandal, which includes claims the BBC
dropped an earlier news investigation into Savile’s abuse and
instead aired tributes following his death.  The Metropolitan Police Service said there were lessons to
be learned from the “landmark” case.  “Although we are satisfied our officers followed the
correct procedures in place at the time, HMIC have rightly
highlighted the complexities of managing police information
nationally,” the police force said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  