-- U.K. Gilts Show Inflation Outlook Highest Since ’08; Pound Falls
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-03-12T16:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/pound-weakens-fifth-day-versus-dollar-before-u-k-output-data.html
U.K. inflation expectations climbed
to a 4 1/2-year high amid speculation the  Bank of England  will
add more stimulus, or quantitative easing, and sacrifice its 2
percent target to spur the economy.  The pound dropped to the lowest level against the dollar
since June 2010 as data showed U.K.  industrial and manufacturing
production  unexpectedly declined in January. Sterling weakened
for a second day versus the euro. Gilts gained after the  Royal
Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said  house prices  decreased
in February. Two-year yields slid to the least since September.  “There’s a nervousness around that the government may be
about to give the central bank a freer remit, which suggests
inflation will tend to be higher,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-
income strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London.
“If QE does make a comeback, if they review the remit and if
sterling continues to weaken, then we will see higher breakevens
almost certainly.”  The U.K. 10-year  break-even rate , which measures the yield
difference between gilts and index-linked securities, rose six
basis points to 3.35 percent at 4:30 p.m. London time. It
earlier touched 3.36 percent, the highest since September 2008.  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield slid five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 1.96 percent. The 1.75 percent bond
maturing in September 2022 rose 0.45, or 4.50 pounds per 1,000-
pound ($1,488) face amount, to 98.165. The rate on  two-year
gilts  slipped as low as 0.18 percent, the least since Sept. 28.  Carney Meeting  Bank of England Governor-designate  Mark Carney  met the U.K.
Treasury’s top civil servant, Nicholas Macpherson, to discuss
possible changes to Britain’s monetary policy making, said a
person with knowledge of the talks.  They spoke about the options in Ottawa last week, according
to the person, who declined to be identified because the
conversation was private. Carney told U.K. lawmakers on Feb. 7
that he sees merit in making the inflation target more flexible.  The Monetary Policy Committee held its asset-purchase
 target  at 375 billion pounds last week, a month after Governor
 Mervyn King  and two other MPC members were outvoted in an
attempt in a push for more stimulus. The next policy meeting
will be on April 3-4.  “With some MPC members already convinced that some fine-
tuning of QE, with additional 25 billion pounds, could be of
some support for the sluggish economy, further weakness in hard
data might lead to a vote for more QE already in April,”
Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at Newedge Group in
 London , wrote in an e-mailed note.  Rate Expectations  Money markets are factoring in a 25 basis-point cut in the
central bank’s main interest rate by December, according to
sterling overnight index average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc
data show. The central bank’s key  rate  has been at a record-low
0.5 percent since March 2009.  The pound fell 0.2 percent to $1.4880 after sliding to
$1.4832, the lowest level since June 23, 2010. Sterling
depreciated 0.1 percent to 87.58 pence per euro. It reached
88.15 pence on Feb. 25, the weakest since Oct. 28, 2011.  Production fell 1.2 percent from December, according to the
 Office for National Statistics . The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.1 percent increase.
Manufacturing slipped 1.5 percent in January. An index of U.K.
 house prices  declined to minus 6 last month from minus 4 in
January, RICS said.  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research
today said it estimated that the economy shrank 0.1 percent in
the three months through February.  Pound Momentum  “Momentum is clearly against the pound and if anything
serves as an excuse to carry on the market takes it,” said
 Derek Halpenny , European head of global-markets research at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “The weak data back up
renewed quantitative easing and it’s a clear recipe for further
pound weakness.”  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi forecasts the pound will slide
toward $1.40 within a year and it may “easily” reach that
level within a couple of months, Halpenny said.  The pound has weakened 6.7 percent this year, the second-
worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The euro rose 1.6 percent and the dollar gained 3 percent.  The Bank of England plans to buy longer-dated gilts today
as it reinvests the proceeds of its asset-purchase program. The
central bank said on March 7 it will purchase gilts with a
residual maturity of three to seven years on Mondays, of more
than 15 years on Tuesdays, and of seven to 15 years on
Wednesdays.  This reinvestment is a “supporting factor” for gilts,
acting as a mini form of quantitative easing, Lloyds Banking
Group Plc strategists led by  Charles Diebel  in London wrote in
an e-mailed note today.  Gilts lost 1.3 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds dropped
0.9 percent and Treasuries fell 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  