-- Qantas Discounts Fares in Asia to Fill 40% More Singapore Seats
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-03-12T01:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/qantas-discounts-fares-in-asia-to-fill-40-more-singapore-seats.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s
largest carrier, is discounting flights to Asia to lure more
passengers as an alliance with Emirates adds 40 percent more
seats on routes to  Singapore .  The carrier has “still got a lot of capacity to fill” on
aircraft flying to and from Asia, Simon Hickey, chief executive
officer of the carrier’s international unit, said in an
interview yesterday. Qantas rescheduled its Asian flights to
appeal to business-class travelers as the Emirates tie-in allows
the carrier to reduce unprofitable flights to  Europe .  The fare discounts are effective next month as Sydney-based
Qantas begins expanding seating to Asian cities. One-way fares
to Singapore,  Hong Kong  and Bangkok were cut to A$350 ($360)
each way last week, Sophia Connelly, a company spokeswoman, said
by e-mail.  “We’ve got a lot of capacity increase going through ports
like Singapore and Hong Kong,” Hickey said by phone yesterday.
Discount fares are being used to fill those seats, he said.
“We’ve got to sell into that capacity. You’ve got to think
about things a little differently.”  Airlines closely watch capacity on their routes to make
sure seating supply doesn’t exceed customer demand. When it
does, carriers have to cut their fares to entice passengers on-
board, narrowing profit margins.  That doesn’t appear to be a risk at this stage,  Russell Shaw , an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Sydney, said by
phone. Qantas’s ability to provide connecting flights beyond the
main Asian hubs will be decisive, he said.  “They’re trying to stimulate the market,” he said. “A
lot will depend on the connections they’re able to establish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  