-- Transparency Bill Would Create Portal for U.S. Records Requests
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-03-12T17:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/transparency-bill-would-create-portal-for-u-s-records-requests.html
Two top lawmakers in the U.S. House
will release a draft bill that would for the first time create a
single portal for requesting records from federal agencies.  The measure is sponsored by Representatives Darrell Issa,
chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
and Elijah Cummings, the panel’s top Democrat. It would put the
burden on the government to show why information should be
withheld in response to Freedom of Information Act requests,
according to draft legislation obtained by Bloomberg.  The legislation would also require agencies to post online
any documents or data requested three or more times and to
update FOIA regulations across all government agencies.  “This bill strengthens FOIA, our most important open
government law, and makes clear that the government should
operate with a presumption of openness and not one of secrecy,”
Cummings, a Maryland Democrat, said in a statement today.  On his first full day in office, President  Barack Obama 
called FOIA the “most prominent expression of a profound
national commitment to ensuring an open government.”  The president pledged in the 2009 executive order to
improve government transparency through technology upgrades and
interagency reviews, and instructed agencies that disclosure
should be the default position on most requests.  Transparency Test  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder followed up Obama’s
statement with his own directive in March 2009, ordering
government agencies to review their internal FOIA rules to
improve response records. In the memo, Holder said that
timeliness of FOIA responses was “an essential component of
transparency.”  Issa, a California Republican, and Cummings in February
asked the Justice Department’s Office of Information Policy,
which oversees government compliance with FOIA and provides
legal advice on requests for records, to explain why agencies
hadn’t acted on Obama’s 2009 pledge.  The lawmakers also asked for copies of directives and other
memos that the office sent to government agencies and an
explanation of why there continues to be an “excessive use and
abuse of exemptions” to avoid releasing government records,
their letter said.  Bloomberg News last year tested the administration’s
transparency pledge. Reporters in June filed requests to obtain
records on taxpayer-supported travel for 57 cabinet departments
and government agencies in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, 2011.  20-Day Deadline  Only eight agencies complied within the 20-day deadline.
About half of those contacted by Bloomberg disclosed the data
within three months of the filings. As of Dec. 12, eight more
agencies had responded with the information, bringing the total
to 38 out of 57.  Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Kathleen Sebelius of the Department of Health and Human Services and
Holder were among those who hadn’t complied.  The draft legislation announced today, called the FOIA
Oversight and Implementation Act of 2013, would create a chief
FOIA Officer Council to review compliance with the law. It would
also give the Office of Government Information Services, which
acts as the FOIA ombudsman, increased independence and the
ability to report directly to Congress without having to work
through agencies.  The House panel will discuss the government’s performance
on FOIA requests tomorrow, to mark what the administration calls
‘Sunshine Week,’ celebrating transparency.  “The draft bill is designed to strengthen transparency by
ensuring that legislative and executive action to improve FOIA
over the past two decades is fully implemented by federal
agencies,” Issa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 