-- Treasuries Gain as Six-Day Price Decline Boosts Auction Demand
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-03-12T20:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/treasuries-gain-as-six-day-price-decline-boosts-auction-demand.html
Treasuries rose for the first time
in seven days as investors seeking the safety of shorter-
maturity debt boosted demand at the U.S. sale of $32 billion in
three-year notes.  The securities  yielded  0.411 percent, below the average
forecast of 0.413 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven of
the Federal Reserve’s 21 primary dealers. Congress remained
deadlocked over automatic spending cuts known as sequestration.
Treasuries fell for the past six days as stronger-than-forecast
U.S. economic data damped refuge demand.  “The auction went well,” said Michael Franzese, senior
vice president of fixed-income trading at ED&F Man Capital
Markets in New York. “There’s still some bad stuff going
around. Sequestration is still looming over us.”  Benchmark 10-year note  yields  dropped four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.02 percent at 4:17 p.m. in New York,
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices showed. The price of the 2 percent
security due in February 2023 increased 11/32, or $3.44 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 27/32. The  yield  on the current three-
year note fell less than one basis point to 0.39 percent.  “The slightly elevated rate setting over the past week or
so may have attracted some buyers,” said Kevin Flanagan, a
Purchase, New York-based fixed-income strategist at Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney.  The Fed has kept its benchmark  interest-rate  target at zero
to 0.25 percent since 2008 to support the economy. Chairman Ben
S. Bernanke said March 2 that premature increases would “carry
a high risk of short-circuiting the recovery.”  Central Banks  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 20.6 percent of the notes sold today,
compared with an average of 28.1 percent at the past 10 sales.
They bought a record-low 18 percent at the last offering, on
Feb. 12.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 23.4 percent of
the notes, versus a record-high 26.9 percent in February and an
average of 17.8 percent at the past 10 auctions.  “The Fed isn’t going to move any time soon, and that means
we aren’t going to stray far from these levels,” said Adrian Miller, director of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities
LLC in New York.  Today’s yield matched the 0.411 percent at last month’s
sale of the debt. The record-low three-year auction yield of
0.327 percent was reached at the December offering.  The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
the amount bid with the amount offered, was 3.51 today, versus
3.59 percent at the February auction and a 3.61 average at the
past 10 sales.  Treasury Losses  Three-year notes have lost investors 0.02 percent this
year, compared with a return of 0.6 percent in 2012, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The broader Treasuries
market has declined 1.1 percent this year after gaining 2.2
percent last year.  The Treasury Department is selling $66 billion in notes and
bonds this week. It’s due to auction $21 billion of 10-year
securities tomorrow and $13 billion of 30-year debt on March 14.
The week’s sales will raise $25.5 billion of new cash, as
maturing securities held by the public total $40.5 billion,
according to the Treasury.  U.S. House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan unveiled a
revised tax-and-spending proposal today he said would eliminate
the deficit within a decade by cutting $4.6 trillion out of a
vast swath of federal expenditures, including Medicaid, food
stamps and Pell college tuition grants.  ‘Political Stalemate’  The Wisconsin Republican’s proposal will set up yet another
budget battle in  Washington , where lawmakers have yet to decide
what to do about the $85 billion in cuts that took effect
earlier this month under sequestration.  “The political stalemate is continuing with the Ryan
budget, which means support for the bond market generally
today,” GMP’s Miller said. “As long as there is anticipation
that we will not see clarity on fiscal side it will keep
business at bay and result in lackluster growth in the U.S. That
then will support a bid for bonds.”  U.S. government securities rose earlier after data showing
U.K. industrial production unexpectedly fell in January
reignited concern global growth will slow. U.K. production fell
1.2 percent from December, when it rose 1.1 percent, the Office
for National Statistics said in  London . The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.1 percent increase.  Stocks fluctuated. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index snapped
a seven-day winning streak and fell as much as 0.5 percent.  Data ‘Disappointment’  “There’s a little bit of disappointment about the economic
figures around the globe, and that’s supportive of Treasuries,”
said Ralf Umlauf, head of floor research at Landesbank Hessen-
Thueringen in  Frankfurt . “We are seeing weaker equity markets
as well as bad figures from U.K. industrial production.”  Treasuries slid last week while investors sought higher-
yielding assets as U.S. data spurred speculation the world’s
biggest economy was improving.  The Labor Department reported March 8 that U.S. payrolls
increased by 236,000 jobs in February, versus 165,000 projected
by a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The unemployment rate
unexpectedly fell to 7.7 percent, from 7.9 percent.  U.S.  retail sales  advanced in February for a fourth month,
rising 0.5 percent, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey before the Commerce
Department reports the figure tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  