-- Republican Governors Face Party Opposition Over Medicaid
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-03-12T14:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/republican-governors-face-party-opposition-over-medicaid.html
Republican governors pushing to
expand Medicaid for the poor under President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law are facing opposition from their own party.  In  Florida , Republican Governor  Rick Scott , 60, was rebuked
by a Senate panel that voted yesterday against expanding
Medicaid, instead deciding to craft a plan that would propose
spending federal money for private insurance. A state House of
Representatives committee voted March 4 against expanding
Medicaid, an option for states made possible by Obama’s Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act.  At least eight of 30 Republican governors in the U.S. have
backed Medicaid expansion. Of those, the five in states where
their party also controls the legislature -- Scott,  Arizona ’s
Jan Brewer,  Ohio’s  John Kasich ,  Rick Snyder  of Michigan and
Jack Dalrymple of North Dakota -- are facing the toughest
opposition. These clashes show how difficult it will be for
Obama to get his Medicaid plan widely adopted.  “These governors are looking at the bottom line and
they’re realizing the kind of money they’d be walking away from
if they don’t do this,” said Grant Reeher, a political science
professor at  Syracuse University  in  New York  who specializes in
health-care policy. “Legislators aren’t responsible for
managing the state in the same way. They can hang on longer to
their political opposition.”  Texas Rejection  Other Republican governors, such as  Rick Perry  of Texas,
have rejected an expansion of Medicaid, saying it’s too costly.
 House Republicans  in Texas voted in private to side with the
governor.  If states don’t expand Medicaid, millions of people earning
less than the poverty line who aren’t currently eligible for the
program may not have health insurance. The Obama administration
is considering whether to let states use Medicaid money to buy
insurance for people earning poverty-level wages in new
marketplaces called exchanges, Gary Cohen, the director of the
U.S. Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight,
said March 7.  In Arizona, Brewer’s push for expansion included a news
conference last week with doctors and nurses outside the state
Capitol to press lawmakers to support the measure. Expansion
passed the North Dakota House last month. It faces opposition in
the Senate, said Representative Al Carlson, the House Republican
leader.  ‘Limited’ Expansion  In Florida, it took legislative committees just seven days
into the 60-day session to defeat Scott’s plan, which called for
a “limited” expansion that would last three years while the
federal government pays the full cost. Lawmakers have until May
3, the last day of session, to change their minds.  The alternative proposed in the Florida Senate is similar
to a proposal being debated in  Arkansas , where Governor Mike Beebe, a Democrat, asked Health and Human Services Secretary
 Kathleen Sebelius  on Feb. 18 if his state would be allowed to
have people newly eligible for Medicaid use the exchanges.  After the Florida Senate vote, Scott said in a statement
that he’s confident lawmakers will “find a way to protect
taxpayers and the uninsured in our state while the new health-
care law provides 100 percent federal funding.”  States Decide  The U.S.  Supreme Court  said in June that the federal
government couldn’t force states to broaden the program under
Obama’s health-care law. That means states decide.  Scott started his political career by opposing Obama’s
health law with a Tea Party group, Conservatives for Patients
Rights. A former chief executive officer of  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) ,
he said he wouldn’t expand Medicaid after the Supreme Court
upheld the law, and changed his position following the November
presidential election.  Scott is seeking re-election in 2014. On Dec. 19, he had an
approval rating of 36 percent, according to a poll from
 Quinnipiac University  in Hamden, Connecticut.  An estimated 3.35 million of Florida’s 19.1 million
residents will receive Medicaid this year, according to the
legislature’s Office of Economic and Democratic Research.  An expansion under the federal law -- which increases
eligibility for a family of four earning as much as $31,800 this
year -- would increase that by 1.28 million during the next 10
years, according to a November 2012 report from the Kaiser
Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured, a nonprofit group that
researches health care.  Congressional Approval  Obama’s health law, which passed Congress in 2010 without a
single Republican vote, may extend insurance over the next
decade to about 27 million people who are currently uninsured.
The  Congressional Budget Office  estimates that 8 million more
will enroll in Medicaid programs next year because of the
expansion.  Expansion in Florida would cost the federal government an
estimated $66.1 billion during the next 10 years, according to
the Kaiser report. The state’s cost during that time would be
about $5.36 billion, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  