-- Romanian February Inflation Slows on Stronger Currency
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-03-12T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/romanian-february-inflation-slows-on-stronger-currency.html
Romanian  inflation  slowed in
February as a stronger currency capped prices for food and
services.  The inflation rate declined to 5.7 percent, after reaching
the highest in 19 months in January of 6 percent the Bucharest-
based National Statistics Institute said today. The figure
matched the median estimate of 12 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Prices rose 0.3 percent from the previous month.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei, which kept its main
interest rate unchanged at a record-low 5.25 percent for a
seventh meeting on Feb. 5, expects a peak in price growth in the
first half of this year. The inflation rate will probably return
to its targeted band of 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent by the end of
the year.  “We see an improvement in forward-looking inflation
expectations since October,” Citigroup Inc. economists Ilker Domac and Gultekin Isiklar said in a note. “The appreciation of
the leu since mid-December bodes well for the disinflation
process. Although these factors provide some comfort for the
inflation outlook, volatile food prices and the possibility of
administrative price adjustments warrant concern.”  Growth in food costs slowed to 6.2 percent in January from
a year earlier on lower oil, eggs and sugar prices, compared
with 7.2 percent in January. Inflation for non-food items was
unchanged at 6.2 percent, the institute said.  Service-price growth was little changed at 3.2 percent from
a year earlier, compared with 3.1 percent in January, as a
stronger currency brought down phone, postal, rent and transport
prices set in euros, according to the statement.  The leu, which has gained 1.8 percent so far this year,
traded at 4.3731 per euro at 9:15 a.m. in Bucharest, 0.1 percent
weaker from yesterday’s close.  Romania’s trade deficit narrowed to 301 million euros ($392
million) in January from a year earlier, the institute said in a
separate statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  