-- Truck Stocks Buoyed by Growth in U.S. Economy: EcoPulse
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2013-03-12T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/truck-stocks-gain-on-rising-u-s-economy-ecopulse.html
Shares of companies that own and
operate their truck fleets are outperforming those that act as
brokers for trucking services, driven by stronger U.S. freight
activity.  Stocks of so-called asset-heavy carriers -- which include
 Werner Enterprises Inc. (WERN)  and  Knight Transportation Inc. (KNX)  -- have
until recently been weighed down by an outlook that’s “too
pessimistic” for rate increases and freight volumes, said Todd Fowler, director and analyst in  Cleveland  with KeyBanc Capital
Markets Inc., the investment banking arm of KeyCorp. This means
there’s a greater potential for a positive surprise from these
companies this year compared with the past three, as gains in
manufacturing and housing fuel better-than-anticipated earnings
growth, he said.  “The freight market right now is relatively balanced from
a capacity standpoint,” Fowler said. As the economy expands,
trucking capacity probably will tighten and asset-based carriers
will have “leverage on pricing, so they’d be most likely to
benefit.”  The for-hire truck-tonnage index, a measure of industry
volume, rose  4.6 percent  in January from a year ago, the biggest
gain on a seasonally-adjusted basis since July 2012, according
to data from the American Trucking Associations in Arlington,
Virginia.  More Confident  Based on “channel checks” with company contacts and spot
rates, “which are a leading indicator for contractual
pricing,” Fowler said he is more confident now that freight
activity will support low single-digit rate increases this year.
One such proxy -- an index of truckload revenue per loaded mile
excluding fuel surcharges -- rose 1.6 percent in January from a
year ago, following a 0.6 percent increase the prior month,
according to data from FTR Associates in Bloomington,  Indiana .  That could help bolster the  Bloomberg U.S. Truckload
Trucking Index (BNUSTLIX)  -- made up of Werner,  Swift Transportation Co. (SWFT) ,
 Heartland Express Inc. (HTLD)  and six other companies -- which has
outperformed its so-called asset-light peer index by 13
percentage points since Jan. 14. In the previous three years,
the owner-operator companies lagged behind the  Bloomberg U.S.
Non-Asset Based Trucking Index (BNUSALT)  -- which includes  C.H. Robinson
Worldwide Inc. (CHRW)  and  Landstar System Inc. (LSTR)  -- by 37 percentage
points.  “This is a great place to be fishing if you’re trying to
find value in a cyclical industry,” said Martin Leclerc,
principal, chief investment officer and portfolio manager at
Barrack Yard Advisors in  Bryn Mawr ,  Pennsylvania , which oversees
$350 million in assets.  Higher Costs  As trucking rebounds along with the  U.S. economy , asset-
heavy carriers offer investors “more bang for the buck”
because their fixed-cost structures provide more earnings
leverage compared with companies that lease vehicles to other
businesses and have larger variable costs, he said.  Investor preference appears to be changing as the
underperformance of the asset-heavy stocks compared with the
broader market has “really slowed,” according to Jim Stellakis, founder and director of research at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based research company Technical Alpha Inc. and also
a chartered market technician.  If the recent outperformance were to continue and this
group traded above previous highs set in 2012 relative to
trucking brokers -- it would be “another good sign” of a
broader sentiment shift, he said.  ‘Guarded Optimism’  The industry also is “getting a tailwind from guarded
optimism that something good is happening,” said Charles Clowdis, managing director of transportation advisory services
at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . While there
haven’t been any “big spikes” in trucking recently, an economy
that’s “inching up” suggests that higher volumes would benefit
asset-heavy carriers, he said.  Gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent in the fourth
quarter and 3.1 percent in the third. U.S. employers added
236,000 workers to payrolls in February after a revised 119,000
increase in January that was smaller than previously estimated,
based on figures from the Labor Department. The  unemployment
rate , at  7.7 percent , was the lowest since December 2008.  Even so, hiring gains in September through February
averaged 186,500 a month, behind the 229,500 average of the
comparable period a year earlier, Labor Department figures show.
Meanwhile, builders broke ground on  613,000 single-family homes 
at an annualized rate in January, the most in more than four
years, though starts still trail the 2007-2008 average of
826,000, according to Commerce Department data.  Goldilocks Economy  A Goldilocks-like economy that’s “not too hot or cold” is
more likely to benefit asset-heavy companies, Fowler said. Some
contacts at brokerage carriers are having difficulty passing
costs along to customers because they can’t raise prices
quickly, so they’re “getting squeezed from a margin
perspective.”  C.H. Robinson, the largest publicly-traded non-asset
trucker in the Bloomberg index, echoed this sentiment, as “net
revenue margin compression continues to be the core topic that
we’re challenged with,” Chief Executive Officer John Wiehoff
said on a Feb. 5 conference call. January was “off to a slow
start,” and so “it’s very difficult to predict what’s going to
happen” with the market and margins, he said, adding that March
typically is the busiest month of the current quarter on a daily
basis.  ‘More Nimbleness’  Truck owners have “more nimbleness” and provide greater
flexibility to customers than brokers can, Clowdis said. If
volumes pick-up from “decent” levels, “you need a company
that can react,” and asset-heavy companies are better able to
provider shippers with trucks quickly, he said.  The industry still faces some headwinds, including higher
fuel prices, capacity issues caused by a driver shortage and new
regulations, Leclerc said.  “These businesses are pretty volatile, more so than most
industries, so you have to focus on companies with good balance
sheets that have been through the storms.”  In addition, the brokerage model tends to be “insulated”
from high costs related to equipment, driver wages and
maintenance because they don’t own the vehicles they lease to
their customers, Fowler said.  With trucks accounting for about two-thirds of all freight
transportation, this “clearly is a significant industry” for
investors to watch, Leclerc said.  Appealing Characteristics  Amid a backdrop that probably will benefit the asset-heavy
business, company-specific characteristics make Werner
appealing, he said. The Omaha, Nebraska-based company paid a
special dividend averaging almost $1.40 a year in the past five
years, is about 38 percent insider-owned and its stock is down 7
percent in the last 12 months.  “It meets all of our criteria for investment,” he said.  Truck operators also are attractive because they are
trading near the low end of historical valuations, said Fowler,
who upgraded four companies to buy from hold on Feb. 10. “The
risk-reward is positively skewed to owning asset-based
companies.”  This year may finally be the time when these carriers
realize the pricing leverage that didn’t fully materialize in
2010, 2011 or 2012, Fowler said.  “We think expectations are more realistic this year,” he
said. “The entry point is reasonable to own asset-heavy
companies in this environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  