-- Ruling Can Lead to Tougher New York Soda Ban
-- B y   D e b o r a h   A .   C o h e n
-- 2013-03-12T22:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/ruling-can-lead-to-tougher-new-york-soda-ban.html
A judge’s ruling that  threw out   New
York ’s ban on large servings of sugar-sweetened beverages may
well have opened the door to a more ambitious effort by the city
to fight obesity and chronic disease.  Although the law was an admirable effort, it simply didn’t
go far enough in limiting large-sized servings of sugary drinks.
Now, the judge’s  ruling  could give New York a second chance at
crafting a law that applies to all sugary drinks and sales
establishments.  Justice Milton A. Tingling Jr. of the State Supreme Court
in  Manhattan  said the law was “arbitrary and capricious” in that
it didn’t treat drink and food establishments equally. The law
applied to some beverages but exempted others, and it banned the
sale of supersized drinks in some establishments while allowing
them elsewhere, the judge said.  Among its biggest  loopholes  was that the law didn’t apply
to all high-sugar beverages, including those with high milk
content such as shakes and lattes. It also didn’t cover
supermarkets,  convenience stores  or bodegas, because these
establishments aren’t regulated by the New York City Department
of Health and Mental Hygiene. (The soda ban was supported by
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
parent of  Bloomberg News .)  The gap in regulatory authority resulted in a loophole that
paradoxically would have excluded the actual  Big Gulp , which is
sold by 7-Eleven and has more than 360 calories of added sugar.
That amount, when regularly consumed, has been shown to increase
one’s risk of becoming overweight and obese.  Excessive Amount  Even the 16-ounce threshold contained in the law is an
amount that significantly exceeds the  American Heart
Association ’s  guidelines  for a full day’s intake of added sugar
-- 100 calories for women and 150 calories for men, or the
equivalent of 8 ounces and 12 ounces of soda, respectively.  Sugar is a worry because excess consumption increases the
risk of  heart disease . Research indicates that women who drink
16 ounces of soda every day are at a greater relative risk of
developing  coronary heart disease  and diabetes than they are of
developing  lung cancer  after daily exposure to secondhand smoke.  Research has also revealed how the consumption of too many
calories increases the risk of chronic disease. The  Pennington
Biomedical Research Center  recruited healthy volunteers and fed
them 40 percent more calories than what was needed to maintain
their weight every day for seven weeks. As the volunteers gained
an average of 16 pounds and their waistlines ballooned,
researchers saw that excess calories were deposited as fat in
the liver, interfered with the normal insulin response,
increased inflammation in the body, raised  blood pressure  and
damaged blood vessel walls, making them vulnerable to
atherosclerosis.  Similar findings have been seen in a  national study  of
almost 5,000 children. Higher levels of inflammation, larger
waist circumferences and lower levels of protective HDL
cholesterol were measured among 3- to 11-year-olds with the
highest levels of sweetened soda intake.  Because people suffer from what has been dubbed  unit bias ,
how much they consume is based on the amount they are served. A
person served 32 ounces of soda will automatically tend to drink
more than when served 8 ounces. Because a serving of a sweetened
soft drink greater than 8 ounces to 12 ounces will increase the
risk of chronic disease in most people, it makes sense to limit
the serving size. If people don’t care about their health, they
can always order more than one serving. But because we generally
expect that business practices shouldn’t automatically harm
people, stricter regulation is warranted.  Obesity Emphasis  Because  trans fats  increased the risk of heart disease, it
was easy to see why banning them was an appropriate action for
government to take. Protecting people from harmful business
practices that lead to chronic diseases is a public-health
responsibility. The main difference between the trans-fat ban
and the soda-serving-size ban has been the emphasis on the
obesity epidemic rather than a full airing of the clear
associations between soda consumption and chronic diseases.  New York should see the judge’s ruling as an opportunity to
revise the law to close the loopholes, including the Big Gulp
exemption, and develop regulations in line with the scientific
consensus that even 16 ounces is way too much.  (Deborah A. Cohen is a doctor and a senior natural
scientist at the nonpartisan  RAND Corporation . She is the author
of the forthcoming book “A Big Fat Crisis: The Hidden Forces
Behind the Obesity Epidemic -- and How to End It.” The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Deborah A. Cohen at  dcohen@rand.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 