-- Ryan Budget Replays Republican Hits as Time Marches On
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-12T17:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/ryan-budget-replays-republican-hits-as-time-marches-on.html
The Ryan budget is back and looking
awfully familiar. This is Representative Paul Ryan’s third
Republican budget in as many years. Like the previous two, it
includes apocalyptic warnings about “debasement of our currency”
and a U.S. government determined to “cheat us out of our just
rewards.” In between such scenarios, it proposes $4.6 trillion
in deficit reduction over the next decade, culminating in a
balanced budget.  Although we don’t agree with Ryan’s perennially  dire
assessment  of the state of the nation, we recognize that he has
performed a useful function in making deficit reduction a
clarion call. But he and his allies need a new approach.  First, the fiscal climate has shifted. Despite the absence
of a grand bargain on the budget,  Washington  has been lurching
toward  deficit control . Spending curbs instituted in 2011 and a
tax increase approved this January have relieved pressure on the
 federal budget . Sequestration, the indiscriminate budget cuts
that began life as a concept too dreadful to bear, is now
incorporated in the continuing resolution passed by the House to
fund the government through September. The Senate appears
inclined to keep the $1.1 trillion in cuts, though not their
randomness. Should the cuts hold, Congress and President  Barack Obama  will have enacted more than $3 trillion in deficit
reduction since 2011.  This is significant. That it also falls short of the
savings necessary for long-term stability gives the Ryan budget
its saliency. Debt held by the public is 73 percent of gross
domestic product and must be reduced. The extended run of
historically low interest rates, which support U.S. borrowing,
can’t last forever.  Still, it’s hard to view this latest budget as anything
more than a holding pattern for a political party caught between
its past and its future.     Like the fiscal outlook, the nation’s
politics have shifted. Ryan’s budget pockets the savings from
Obama’s health-care plan while calling again for its repeal. As
Jim Nussle, a former Republican congressman and budget director
under George W. Bush, said to CNBC: “I think we fought that
battle.” Pretending otherwise is silly.  Similarly, the last Ryan budget was fully vetted in the
2012 presidential campaign. Afterward, Democrats won the White
House and picked up seats in the Senate and House. Republicans
can keep offering the same platform of spending cuts, but they
seem unlikely to achieve different results.  Nor should they. The changes Ryan proposes for Medicare
(vouchers) and Medicaid (state block grants) would merely shift
the health-care burden from the federal government to
individuals and states. Because private health plans aren’t as
efficient as Medicare, total public and private spending on
health care would almost certainly increase -- the opposite of
what’s needed in a country  headed toward  devoting $1 in every $5
of gross domestic product to health care.  As we have said, it is crucial that policy makers find ways
to bring down medical costs, but there are  ways  to do this
without leaving the elderly and poor with inadequate health
care. Medicare could, for example, raise premiums for high
earners, reduce payments to drug companies or drive competition
by making public the prices it pays for drugs, devices and
medical services.  It’s praiseworthy that, unlike the Senate, the House has
produced a budget in recent years to stake out its positions and
provoke debate. We look forward to seeing the Senate’s offering
this week -- its first since 2009 -- followed by the president’s
own tardy outline. Obama has already made it clear that he is
willing to trade savings on entitlements for closing tax
loopholes that largely benefit the wealthy.  If Congress can leave behind its penchant for drama and
return to a regular budgeting and appropriations process, it
will give the nation confidence and help re-establish the
natural rhythm of government, which these years of political
brinkmanship have disrupted. The latest Ryan budget, like its
predecessors, is an artifact of the era.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 