-- Saudi Arabia’s Shale Plans May Be Slowed by Lack of Water
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-03-12T22:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/saudi-arabia-s-shale-plans-may-be-slowed-by-lack-of-water.html
Saudi Arabia  may need at least a
decade to develop shale-gas production to a scale comparable to
the U.S. because of the desert kingdom’s short supplies of water,
state oil company officials said.  Shale gas is produced by a technique known as hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, in which massive amounts of water,
chemicals and sand are blasted underground to free trapped
hydrocarbons. Finding the necessary amount of water in the
regions where Saudi Arabian Oil Co. is exploring for shale gas
will be difficult, according to Amin Nasser, senior vice
president of upstream at the company known as  Saudi Aramco .  “The infrastructure cost will go down with time,” he said
March 10 at an oil and gas conference in Manama, Bahrain. “But
water is going to remain a challenge.”  Saudi Arabia may hold as much as 645 trillion cubic feet of
technically recoverable shale gas, the world’s fifth-largest
deposits, behind  China , the U.S., Argentina and  Mexico ,
according to estimates by  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  The kingdom also has
about 282.6 trillion cubic feet of proven conventional gas
reserves, according to Aramco’s 2011 annual report.  Shale gas production in the U.S., which has about 862
trillion cubic feet of recoverable shale gas, is forecast to
grow to 16.7 trillion cubic feet in 2040 from 7.8 trillion cubic
feet in 2011, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. That increase will account for almost all of the
growth in total U.S. natural gas production to 33.1 trillion
cubic feet from 23 trillion during that period, the EIA said in
its Annual Energy Outlook 2013.  International Help  “We need to build our knowledge and experience and
mobilize resources, and all this will take time,” Waleed al-
Mulhim, manager at Aramco’s southern area reservoir management
department, said yesterday at the conference. “We can’t simply
replicate what’s happening in the U.S., as we have different
challenges.”  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s largest provider of hydraulic-
fracturing services, and fellow oil and gas service companies
Baker Hughes Inc. and  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  are all operating
research centers in Saudi Arabia to develop technology to help
the country unlock its unconventional hydrocarbon resources.  “It’s here in Saudi Arabia where we are developing our
best technology,” said Aaron Gatt, characterization group
president at Schlumberger. “We are trying to find solutions to
produce shale gas in Saudi Arabia with the least amount of
water,” he told the conference yesterday.  Kuwait Oil  Kuwait  Oil Co. has identified a shale gas deposit and it
will “soon” venture into developing the resource, Chairman and
Managing Director Sami al-Rushaid told the same conference,
without disclosing any details. The company also plans to expand
development of sour, or high-sulfur, gas deposits, to nearly
triple the production capacity to 2.5 billion cubic feet a day
of gas by 2030, he said.  Kuwait lacks the experience to develop more challenging
unconventional gas resources on its own and it must resort to
international  oil companies , said Kamil al-Harami, an
independent oil analyst based in Kuwait.  “If the Kuwaitis don’t specify a deadline for the project
and don’t seek help from international companies, then their
plans to develop the shale and sour gas deposits are just
daydreams,” he said by phone.  Saudi Aramco is drilling for sour gas in the Empty Quarter
desert with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , while Kuwait postponed
similar deal with Shell after lawmakers raised questions about
the contract to develop the challenging natural-gas fields in
the country’s north.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  