-- SBM Surges Most in 20 Years as Talisman Dispute Settled
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-03-12T20:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/sbm-offshore-settles-yme-dispute-pays-talisman-470-million.html
SBM Offshore NV (SBMO) , the world’s
biggest supplier of floating oil-production platforms, surged
after settling a dispute over its Yme operation with  Talisman
Energy Inc. (TLM)   SBM gained 21 percent, the biggest jump since at least
October 1989. It will pay Talisman $470 million and book a $270
million charge on top of the $200 million set aside in December
after the Yme platform was evacuated in July because of cracks
found in the structure.  The deal with Talisman, operator of the field, cancels
current accords, puts in place arbitration and closes the
platform, the company said in a statement today. The settlement
follows SBM’s decision last month to book a $29 million charge
on its Deep Panuke project off  Nova Scotia .  “Resolving one of the two legacy issues that plagued the
company for some four years is important but certainly comes at
a price,” said Andre Mulder, a Kepler Capital Markets analyst.  Talisman threatened to replace the platform should SBM fail
to come up with a plan to repair it. The Calgary-based company
said in May it would remove the field from its output
projections and take a $248 million after-tax writedown.  SBM, based in Schiedam,  Netherlands , rose to 12.93 euros at
the close in Amsterdam. More than 13 million shares changed
hands, six times the three-month daily average.  “Today we have resolved the legacy difficulties of Yme at
an agreed cost, bringing an end to a period of significant
uncertainty for the company,” Sietze Hepkema, SBM’s chief
governance and compliance officer, said in a statement. The
facility will be scrapped, while the partners in the project
continue to develop options for the field, the company said.  Talisman holds 60 percent of the Yme field, while
Wintershall AG and  American Energy Development Corp. (AEDC)  both have
10 percent. Talisman rose 1 percent to C$12.56 at the close in
Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  