-- Scene Last Night: Paulson, Koch, Baryshnikov, Herrera
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-03-12T15:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/scene-last-night-paulson-koch-baryshnikov-herrera.html
“There are so many things that ask
for people’s attention and support,” Diana DiMenna said last
night at the  David H. Koch Theater . “It’s our responsibility 
to make sure this party is great.”  It was. DiMenna presided over the School of American
Ballet Winter Ball at  Lincoln Center , where the knock-out effect
was a reflective gold dance floor. As the students danced, their
shadows echoed on the golden ceiling above.  Later, guests took their turn.  The evening had a “Far East” theme, with decor by  Ron
Wendt  featuring umbrellas from India and poppies from Italy.
Also helping the cause were Mikhail Baryshnikov,  New York City
Ballet  dancers, many of them alumni of the school, and a display
of jewelry by  Van Cleef & Arpels , lead corporate sponsor of the
ball for six years.  The event, with choreography by  Silas Farley , highlighted
the tuition-free program for male dancers at the school, which
is affiliated with  New York  City Ballet.  “More graduates go on to become professional dancers than
from any other school,”  John Paulson , founder and majority
owner of Paulson & Co., said standing next to his wife, Jenny,
who wore a ballerina-pink gown. Their daughter is enrolled at
the school.  Yellow Diamonds  DiMenna wore yellow diamonds, a gift from her husband, Joe DiMenna of Zweig-DiMenna Associates, and a gown custom-made by
Wes Gordon.  “He chose the shape, I chose the color,” she said,
adjusting the long train of purple and gold silk embroidered
with flowers. Her husband wore a matching bow tie and pocket
square.  Carolina Herrera designed the gown of Julia Koch, also a
chairwoman. It was gold with pagodas peeking out of lace. Koch’s
friend Peter Lyden, chief philanthropy officer at the  American
Museum of Natural History , wore a turban made out of gold fabric
left over from the dress. The three dined at a long table with
David H. Koch and  Peter Martins , City Ballet’s supremo.  The meal consisted of Peking duck rolls, chicken curry, and
pomegranate ice cream. James Dinan, founder of York Capital
Management LP, Antoine Schetritt, a  fund manager  at Cello
Capital Management, and real estate developer William Lie Zeckendorf were among the 500 guests.  “It’s one of the most profound organizations,” said  New
York City Ballet  principal Daniel Ulbricht, who came to the
school from  St. Petersburg , Florida. “All of us come from
smaller places, it pushes us to grow.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 