-- Serb Central Bankers Hold Rates to Assess Inflation Outlook
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-03-12T11:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/serbian-central-bankers-hold-rates-to-assess-inflation-outlook.html
Serbia’s central bank paused its
tightening cycle as it assesses price pressures before cutting
rates to spur economic growth.  The Narodna Banka Srbije in Belgrade left its  one-week
repurchase rate  at 11.75 percent after raising it eight times in
the past nine meetings. Seventeen of 24 economists in a
Bloomberg  survey  predicted the move, while six forecast a
quarter-point increase and one saw a quarter-point cut.  The bank “estimates the current level of restrictive
monetary policy ensures that in unchanged circumstances, the
inflation will come back to our targeted band by the year end,”
it said in an e-mailed statement after the decision.  Rate-setters pledged on Feb. 13 to consider changes to
monetary policy as inflation pressures based on food and
regulated prices disappear. Vice Governor Veselin Pjescic said
the current rate level represents a sufficient degree of
restrictiveness as long as current forecasts, including an
economic contraction of 0.1 percent and 2 percent inflation in
the euro area, are met.  The dinar trades at 112.0443 to the euro at 12:33 p.m. in
Belgrade, compared with 112.0662 prior to the rate announcement,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Regional Easing  The trend in Serbian rates has run counter to others in the
region, where borrowing costs are falling to halt economic
slowdowns amid Europe’s debt crisis. The National Bank of Serbia
wants to ease price pressures stemming from regulated price
increases and expanded dinar liquidity.  Inflation has been accelerating since April 2012, when it
fell to a 30-year low of 2.7 percent, due to rising food costs
amid a drop in farm output. The rate reached 12.4 percent in
February and is expected to peak at 14 percent through April.
The central bank wants to bring it down to 4 percent, plus or
minus 1.5 percentage points, by December.  “The inflation rate will drop due to the implementation of
fiscal consolidation, the upcoming precautionary deal with the
International Monetary Fund, the expected stabilization of
agricultural prices and the announced adjustment of regulated
prices,” the central bank said in today’s statement.  Prices continued to rise even as the economy fell into its
second recession in three years and consumer demand contracted
as wage growth remained tame and unemployment increased.  Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic said March 6 he will ask
the central bank to lower interest rates and manage the dinar’s
exchange rate to bolster economic growth and exports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net  or
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  