-- Sheryl Sandberg’s Advice to the Privileged
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-03-12T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/sheryl-sandberg-s-advice-to-the-privileged.html
To get somewhere in this circular
debate over women and work, we need to get three women in the
same room: Anne-Marie Slaughter, Marissa Mayer and Sheryl Sandberg.  Slaughter quit her high-ranking job at the State Department
to return to academia at Princeton University and wrote a  long
magazine article  about how women can’t have it all. Mayer is the
new mother and chief executive officer of Yahoo! Inc. who dissed
maternity leave as if it were for sissies and called all
employees back to the office or else.  And then there is Sandberg, Facebook Inc.’s chief operating
officer, whose new book tells women how to be as successful as
she is -- or, alternatively, why they’re jerks for not being as
successful as she is. The takeaway from “Lean In,” which is
 already a best-seller , is that you can succeed if you would just
stop undermining yourself, assume a better posture, raise your
hand and speak up.  If it were that easy, there would be no market for
Sandberg’s book 50 years after Betty Friedan laid down  the first
marker . Now there is a heavy shelf of advice tomes and
dispatches from the mommy wars, yet a few truths remain self-
evident: Women have babies, usually during their peak career-
climbing years. There are only 24 hours in a day, a fact no
legislation can change (although thanks for the  Family and
Medical Leave Act ). And though men become fathers, they don’t
feel -- operative word feel -- the same pull to be at home with
their children that the women who bear them do.  Practical Observations  Not that Sandberg’s from-on-high perspective isn’t
interesting. Who could quibble with her admonition to shed the
self-doubt that holds so many women back? As she notes, women in
her class at Harvard are much less accomplished than the men;
only 4 percent of Fortune 500 CEOs are female. She gives us a
glimpse into the boardroom, and it turns out that when the door
closes, they are saying exactly what you might expect: They find
assertive women bossy and assertive men inspiring, and see
female likeability as inversely proportional to female success.  “Don’t leave before you leave” is a Sandberg aphorism that
makes sense. It means, don’t hold back trying to make partner or
become regional sales manager because someday you might get
pregnant. Your employer already believes men are much less
likely to bail than you are. Don’t play along.  Much of the criticism of Sandberg’s book is that she writes
as if her advice is useful to all women when it is helpful
mostly to the privileged. When Sandberg was on a lower rung, she
did what so many mothers do: Snuck out at 5:30 p.m. to have
dinner with her children.  She sneaks no more; since her well-paid days at Google
Inc., dinner has been ready when she gets home. It’s just a
financial fact of life that inside the household of a woman at
the top is an army of nannies. This doesn’t make Sandberg a bad
mother but an efficient one.  Sandberg has something to say in this short book and in her
many interviews, but her elevated position makes her a
target. It isn’t her fault she’s beautiful and rich. Still,
she could have left out how she deals with problems that beset
us all. While many a mother has had to make an unscheduled
pickup when the school nurse calls to say she has found lice,
most of us have to get there on our own and aren’t picking out
the nits later on the corporate jet.  And there are contradictions. Sandberg may push women to
“lean in” and say more at the conference table, but she enlisted
a career coach to teach her how to speak up less. If even
Sandberg has to sit back and shut up sometimes, what about the
rest of us?  Impractical Advice  Her advice on having a supportive spouse, meanwhile, is
both obvious and impractical when marriage is a crapshoot all
its own. Yes, get the cool bad boys out of your system early in
favor of the stable, bread-winning, fold-the-laundry guy. In her
“60 Minutes”  interview , Sandberg’s husband, a Master of the
Universe himself, comes across as an ideal mate. Her test for
finding one is not for the faint of heart: See how he reacts to
canceling a date because you have to work. Then test him further
to see if he will drop everything and accompany you to Sao Paulo
on a business trip.  To that, I say, stick with Mom’s needlepoint philosophy: A
good man is hard to find. Don’t make it harder.  All this said, I give Sandberg credit. She doesn’t really
have to struggle with the work-family balance but it is
considerate of her to say that she does, because that makes such
concern more acceptable for the rest of us. She even calls
herself a “feminist,” still a fighting word in some quarters.  By contrast, Marissa Mayer, Sandberg’s Silicon Valley
sister, supports findings from  my own personal survey  of female
executives who say their worst bosses are women. Mayer rejects
the term feminist and prefers to play on the unlevel field with
the Big Boys. When she took the CEO job, she announced she was
going to “work through” her maternity leave. Postpartum, she
boasted that her new baby was so easy, she doesn’t know why
everyone makes such a fuss about motherhood. The fussing might
be from the mothers without a nursery next to their office who
needed the flextime she just banned.  Somewhere between Slaughter’s quitting and Mayer’s denial,
there’s a demilitarized zone. Sandberg writes from there and
means well. Let’s thank her for staying on the home team.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 