-- Shire Buys Premacure for Blindness-Preventing Drug in Infants
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-03-12T13:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/shire-buys-premacure-for-blindness-preventing-drug-in-infants.html
Shire Plc (SHP) , a maker of drugs for
rare genetic diseases, bought  Sweden ’s Premacure AB to gain an
experimental treatment against a blindness-causing disorder in
babies born prematurely.  Shire will pay an upfront fee for the closely held company,
which is based in Uppsala, and further payments if the drug
meets certain development targets, the Dublin-based company said
in a statement today, without disclosing amounts. The initial
payment is probably less than $30 million, said Savvas Neophytou, an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co.  The acquisition gives Shire a protein-replacement therapy
called insulin-like growth factor 1, or IGF-1, against
retinopathy of prematurity, one of the most common causes of
vision loss in childhood. The deal is Shire’s second this year,
and fits with a strategy of building its rare disease business,
analysts including  Mark Clark  at Deutsche Bank AG said.  Incoming Shire Chief Executive Officer Flemming Ornskov was
a “fan of eye products” while at  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and the acquisition
is “an interesting first deal following his arrival,” said
Navid Malik, an analyst at  Cenkos Securities Plc. (CNKS)   Shire rose 0.4 percent to 2,045 pence as of 1:09 p.m. in
 London , giving the company a market value of 11.4 billion pounds
($17 billion).  Retinopathy of prematurity affects as many as 16,000
preterm infants in the U.S. each year, requires medical
treatment in as many as 1,500 cases, and causes blindness among
as many as 600 babies, Shire said.  Babies born prematurely can lack IGF-1 and the ability of
fully-grown fetuses to produce it themselves. Premacure’s drug,
which it’s been developing under the brand name Premiplex, is
designed to replace the protein and prevent vision loss. It’s in
the second of three stages of clinical trials usually needed for
regulatory approval in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  