-- Singapore Police to Share Evidence With FBI on Death
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-03-13T08:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/singapore-police-to-share-evidence-with-fbi-on-engineer-s-death.html
The Singapore police department
said it will share evidence with the U.S.  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation relating to the death of Shane Todd, an American
research engineer who worked in the city.  “The Singapore Police Force and FBI have engaged in
several discussions and are working together,” police said in a
statement yesterday. The police force “will share with FBI
evidence obtained so far in accordance with the legal framework
of both countries,” it said.  Shane Todd had worked at the Institute of Microelectronics
in Singapore, a unit of the state-owned Agency for Science,
Technology and Research. His death may be tied to one of the
company’s projects and possible technology transfers to  China ,
his father Rick Todd has said. The institute said last week it
has cooperated fully with police.  Rick Todd said the family disputed the Singapore police
department’s conclusion that his son had committed suicide and
they were seeking further investigation into his death. They
raised the issue with lawmakers including Montana Democrat,
Senator  Max Baucus , who met with U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  last week and discussed the case.  Singapore’s Foreign Minister K. Shanmugam, who met with
Baucus yesterday, said there was no transfer of technology from
the institute to China, according to the  New York  Times. The
foreign minister is scheduled to meet Kerry today in  Washington .
Shanmugam also plans to meet with U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder  this week  to “discuss ways to broaden and deepen
bilateral cooperation,” according to the Singapore foreign
ministry.  Share Evidence  Singapore police asked the Todd family to share any
evidence they have with the FBI, if they’re not comfortable with
Singapore investigators, the department said on March 4.  “Both agencies are committed fully to ensuring that the
investigation is thorough and that all available evidence
relevant to the cause of, and circumstances connected with, the
death of Shane Todd is made available at the coroner’s
inquiry,” police said, adding that the coroner will determine
the cause of death independently.  Rick Todd and his wife Mary said today they will
“definitely” attend the inquiry and challenge any claims that
their son had killed himself. “If they say our son committed
suicide, we will bring all the evidence we have to show who
murdered him and why he was murdered,” Mary Todd said in a
phone interview.  Hard Drive  Rick Todd said  police  had requested an external hard drive
the family took from his son’s apartment in Singapore and a 2002
psychological report when he was in graduate school at the
University of  Florida  in Gainesville. Rick Todd said his son
faced stress like any student and sought counseling and
treatment from an on-campus doctor, though he said there wasn’t
a psychological report.  The family has been in contact with the FBI and won’t hand
over the hard drive until the U.S. investigators are allowed to
fully participate in the Singapore probe, Rick Todd said today.
The family wants police in Singapore to share evidence taken
from Shane Todd’s apartment, including two computers, his diary
and mobile phone, the father said.  “We will believe it when we see these in the hands of the
FBI,” he said in the same interview. “It doesn’t make sense
for us to give information to the FBI until they’re given full
access to the investigation.”  The  Singapore  police department declined to comment further
today.  Financial Times first reported the investigation into the
death of Shane Todd, who was 31 when he died. He was last seen
on the evening of June 22 and was found hanging in his apartment
two days later, Rick Todd said. The couple has visited the city-
state three times, once when their son was a baby and two
subsequent trips after his death, Mary Todd said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  