-- SKF Appoints Finance Chief to Lead Cost-Cutting at Bearing Maker
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-03-12T12:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/skf-appoints-finance-chief-to-lead-cost-cutting-at-bearing-maker.html
SKF AB (SKFB) , the world’s largest maker
of bearings, said Henrik Lange will become chief financial
officer two months after it announced a cost-cutting program
targeting annual savings of 3 billion kronor ($469 million).  Lange, a 25-year veteran at the company, is currently
president of an industrial market unit and will take up his new
position May 1, Gothenburg, Sweden-based SKF said today in a
statement. CFO Tore Bertilsson will retire after almost 24 years
at SKF.  The company said Jan. 14 it will eliminate 2,500 jobs and
transfer production from western  Europe  to faster-growing
markets in Eastern Europe,  Asia  and  Latin America  in a cost-
savings plan that runs through 2015. The program follows
financial targets set by SKF in October 2010, including an
operating margin of 15 percent.  “Lange’s biggest challenge will be to succeed in reaching
all the way with the cost cuts,” David Jacobsson, a Stockholm-
based analyst at Pareto Ohman, said by phone. “He also needs to
reach the desired effects on the margin.”  SKF reported fourth-quarter net income of 983 million
kronor on Jan. 30, which beat analyst’ estimates. Chief
Executive Officer Tom Johnstone said at the time that demand was
expected to be relatively unchanged in the first quarter,
compared with the last three months of 2012. The operating
margin was 8.2 percent in the fourth quarter and 11.4 percent
for the full year.  Lange joined SKF in 1988 as controller and has held that
post in various units, spokeswoman Rebecca Ehlinger-Janzon said
today by phone. He has also headed SKF  Poland  and SKF Austria.
Lange became president for SKF’s Industrial division in 2005 and
has held his current job since January last year.  “As always, coming into a new role, I hope to bring in a
new perspective,” Lange said by e-mail.  Rakesh Makhija will replace Lange as head of Industrial
Market, Strategic Industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in  Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net  