-- Slasher Movies Get New Fangoria On-Demand Service
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-03-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/slasher-movies-get-new-fangoria-on-demand-service.html
Slasher movies will be getting a
new home with “Fangoria Presents,” a curated video-on-demand
offering on cable, satellite and the Internet.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  will be the first to carry the collection, a
venture between Brainstorm Media, the independent movie
producer, and Fangoria Entertainment Inc., which publishes the
30-year-old slasher-film magazine.  The Fangoria-branded service will begin this week,
Brainstorm President Meyer Shwarzstein said in a telephone
interview yesterday. He declined to identify participating
studios. Philadelphia-based Comcast, the biggest U.S. cable
system, will carry the product, which offers movies for sale and
on-demand rentals, Fangoria said on its  website .  The  movie industry  is looking to increase digital and
online revenue as DVD sales decline. Brainstorm and its
distribution partner,  iN Demand LLC , are in discussions with
cable providers as well as satellite and Internet broadcasters
to add the collection, Shwarzstein said.  “We want to make sure we’re catering to the fans so that
it becomes a destination for horror,” Shwarzstein said. “What
I’m trying to do is embrace the notion of authenticity, which I
think is what consumers want.”  The service will feature Brainstorm films, including
“Axed” and older studio releases such as “Troll 2” and
“Motel Hell,” Shwarzstein said. Fangoria licensed its name to
Brainstorm for the project and will vet all of the films, he
said.  Genre Films  The product displays a Fangoria “folder” among on-demand
selections, allowing providers to spotlight low-cost genre films
without spending large sums on marketing, Shwarzstein said.  “No more searching around using the alphabet or trying to
remember a title,” Fangoria President Thomas DeFeo said in a
statement. “We are pulling films that we know our audience will
love watching again and again.”  Comcast spokesman Peter Dobrow declined to comment by e-
mail.  “Troll 2” was released by  Sony Corp. (6758)  in 1990 and “Motel
Hell” released by Metro-Goldwyn Mayer Inc. in 1980, according
to the  Internet Movie Database .  Fangoria is a unit of New York-based Brooklyn Co. As well
as its magazine and website, it publishes graphic novels and
produces movies.  Beverly Hills , California-based Brainstorm produces
independent films and manages movie libraries for distribution
on electronic platforms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  