-- Slovenian Party to Decide on Joining Cabinet as Early Vote Looms
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-03-13T08:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/slovenian-party-to-decide-on-joining-cabinet-as-early-vote-looms.html
Slovenia’s Citizens’ List party
will decide today whether to join Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s caretaker government as she strives to avoid early
elections and an international bailout.  Bratusek, who took over from Janez Jansa after he was voted
out of office by lawmakers Feb. 27, must submit to Parliament a
Cabinet by tomorrow. Party leaders will meet at 5 p.m. in
Ljubljana, with a decision expected later today. Without
Citizens’ List, the government would lack a majority as it
lobbies to win a confirmation vote that may take place as early
as next week, parliamentary spokeswoman Karmen Uglesic said.  Slovenia, which is struggling with its second recession
since 2009 and a deepening banking crisis, was plunged into
political uncertainty in January after the anti-corruption
agency accused Jansa of failing to declare some private assets.
If Bratusek fails to form an administration, the Alpine nation
would have to hold its second early ballot in 18 months.  “Early elections would mean a loss of even more time and
delay the consolidation and fixing of the banking issue,”  Lutz Roehmeyer , a fund manager at Landesbank Berlin Investment, who
oversees 10 billion euros ($13 billion) in assets, said in an e-
mail yesterday. An early vote “would be a big burden for the
issuance of  government bonds  and I see the market shut for
Slovenia today at acceptable levels.”  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated benchmark bond
maturing in 2022 rose to 5.3482 percent, the highest this year,
on Feb. 27 when Jansa’s Cabinet was ousted. The yield has since
dropped and was at 5.078 percent at 9:24 a.m. in Ljubljana,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bailout Avoidance  The first post-communist nation to adopt the euro wants to
avoid a bailout as its banking industry struggles with bad loans
and  unemployment  rises during a recession sparked by the debt
crisis.  Before Jansa joined the legion of leaders across  Europe  who
were toppled by the waves of the economic crisis that started
more than four years ago, his government drafted a 4 billion-
euro ($5.2 billion) bank recapitalization plan that would take
up bad loans from lenders.  Slovenia will probably have to apply for aid at some point
to recapitalize its banks, Christoph Weil, an economist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , wrote in a March 6 note to clients.
Euro-region finance ministers would approve the aid request in
return for a bailout program with tough conditions, he said.  “The bailout is the last step a government should take, so
with all the delay, Slovenia has to avoid a deterioration that
pushes the country into this solution with the lenders of last
resort,” Landesbank’s Roehmeyer said.  Bank Losses  Slovenia’s two largest banks owned by the state, Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. , had
a combined loss of 480 million euros in 2012 on surging loan-
loss reserves.  The nation’s central bank, which sees gross domestic
product shrinking further this year after a 2.3 percent drop in
2012, on March 5 urged the next Cabinet to recapitalize the
banks and pull the economy out of a recession.  Slovenia faces a 2 percent decline in GDP this year, the
European Commission said in a Feb. 22 report, and has to ratify
neighboring  Croatia ’s bid to join the European Union on July 1.  There are “significant” policy differences between the
parties comprising the coalition, particularly over the bad bank
plan, said  Nicholas Spiro , managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in  London .  Puzzle Pieces  “Even if Bratusek gains the necessary votes to form a
government, there are still many domestic and external pieces
that need to fall into place for Slovenia to avoid going down
the bailout route,” he said by e-mail yesterday. “The most
likely scenario is that Bratusek gets the necessary votes and
soldiers on as the leader of a weak and conflict-ridden
government.”  Standard and Poor’s cut Slovenia’s credit rating on Feb. 13
one level to A-, on par with Poland and  Malaysia , citing the
government’s announced support for state-owned banks, which will
lead to a higher debt ratio than previously forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  