-- Small-Business Optimism in U.S. Climbs for Third Straight Month
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-03-12T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/small-business-optimism-in-u-s-climbs-for-third-straight-month.html
Confidence among U.S. small
businesses rose in February for a third month as more company
leaders said they will invest in equipment and stockpiles.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s optimism
 index  improved 1.9 points to 90.8 last month from 88.9 in
January. Eight of the measure’s 10 components increased, the
Washington-based group said.  The report also showed respondents remained pessimistic
about the outlook for economic growth and earnings, a sign the
gains in capital spending and inventories will be slow to
develop. The findings follow figures last week that showed the
economy added more jobs than forecast last month and the
 unemployment rate   dropped  to its lowest level in four years.  “The labor market does seem to be finding better
footing,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief economist, said
in a statement. “But until owners’ forecast for the economy
improves substantially, there will not be much of a boost to
hiring and spending from the small-business half of the
economy.”  Payrolls climbed by 236,000 workers last month after a
revised 119,000 gain in January, Labor Department figures showed
last week.  Unemployment dropped to 7.7 percent in February, its lowest
level since December 2008, from 7.9 percent the month before,
the data also showed.  Inventory Gauge  Last month’s increase in the small-business index was led
by a 6 percentage-point jump in those planning to increase
inventories, driving the measure to a net minus one percent. The
share planning to make capital outlays in the next three months
to six months climbed 4 percentage points, the biggest advance
since January 2007, to 25 percent.  Employment prospects at small businesses also improved, as
the share of owners saying they planned to create new jobs
increased by 1 percentage point to 4 percent. The portion
reporting that job openings are hard to fill climbed 3
percentage points to 21 percent.  The net share of small businesses projecting improved
economic conditions six months from now was at minus 28 percent,
the weakest component of the index. Nonetheless, February’s
reading was 2 points higher than in the prior month.  The index of those expecting more lax credit conditions
improved by 1 point to a net minus 8 percent, showing that more
owners still expect it will be harder rather than easier to get
financing.  Net Figures  The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
with a positive response and adjusting the results for seasonal
variations.  The gauge’s reading of 90.8 compares with a low of 81 in
March 2009, according to NFIB monthly data going back to 1986.
The index peaked at 107.7 in November 2004.  The NFIB report was based on a survey of 870 small-business
owners through Feb. 28.  Small companies represent more than 99 percent of all U.S.
employers, according to the U.S. Small Business Administration.
A small business is defined as an independent enterprise with no
more than 500 employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  