-- South Africa Current-Account Gap Near Four-Year High
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-03-12T08:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/south-africa-current-account-gap-narrows-as-exports-gain.html
South  Africa  posted a current-
account deficit close to a four-year high in the fourth quarter,
undermining the rand and adding to price pressures in Africa’s
biggest economy.  The  gap  reached 6.5 percent of gross domestic product, down
from a revised 6.8 percent in the third quarter, the biggest
since the same period in 2008, the Reserve Bank said in its
Quarterly Bulletin released in  Pretoria  today.  The deficit, the broadest measure of trade in goods and
services, almost doubled to 6.3 percent in 2012 from 3.4 percent
a year earlier as mining strikes and slower growth in  Europe  cut
exports. That’s contributed to the rand sliding 7.1 percent
against the dollar this year, adding to pressure on inflation
and making it difficult for policy makers to reduce borrowing
costs to spur the economy.  “This basically reaffirms the imbalances of the domestic
economy,” Jana Le Roux, an economist at Econometrix Treasury
Management in Johannesburg, said in a phone interview today.
“The rand is likely to remain weak in the short to medium
term.”  The median  estimate  of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for the shortfall to narrow to 6.3 percent of GDP in the
fourth quarter from an unrevised 6.4 percent in the previous
three months.  Rand Drops  The rand extended its decline after the data, dropping as
much as 1.2 percent to 9.1994 against the dollar. It was trading
at 9.1938 as of 10:22 a.m. in Johannesburg.  The deficit eased to an annualized 212.6 billion rand ($23
billion) last quarter as mining exports rebounded following a
series of strikes at platinum and gold mines in August.  Exports may come under pressure again this year because of
ongoing stoppages at  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX)  coal mines, a threat
of more wildcat strikes and a record trade deficit in January.
The trade gap widened to 24.5 billion rand in January from 2.7
billion in December.  South Africa relies mainly on foreign investment in stocks
and bonds to fund the deficit, inflows that have fluctuated this
year as global growth slowed and investors’ risk perceptions
increased.  “Foreign investors’ confidence in South Africa was
negatively affected in the closing months of 2012 as labor
unrest in the mining sector spilled over into the agricultural
sector and as ratings agencies announced sovereign downgrades,”
the bank said in its report.  Foreign Inflows  Foreign portfolio inflows to help finance the current-
account gap fell last quarter, undermining the rand. Investment
in stocks and bonds by non-residents dropped to 12.5 billion
rand from 27.5 billion rand in the third quarter, the bank said.
Foreign direct investment recorded an outflow of 1.4 billion
rand, compared with an inflow of 22.2 billion rand in the
previous three months.  Africa’s largest  economy  expanded 2.5 percent in 2012, less
than half the 7 percent pace the government estimates it needs
to slash a 25 percent jobless rate. Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 5 percent,
the lowest level in more than 30 years, in January as inflation
remained near the top of the bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent
target.  Marcus said last week the rand’s weakness beyond 9 against
the dollar was “overdone” and the currency will probably
recover.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  