-- South Africa Spending Contracted for First Time Since 2009
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-03-12T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/south-africa-spending-contracted-for-first-time-since-2009.html
South African spending contracted
for the first time since 2009 in the fourth quarter as the
government cut back on expenditure and investment growth slowed.  Gross domestic demand, which includes consumer, government
and investments, fell an annualized 0.9 percent in the final
three months of the year compared with an expansion of 4.1
percent in the previous three months, the  Reserve Bank  said in
its Quarterly Bulletin released in  Pretoria  today.  Africa’s biggest economy grew 2.5 percent last year, the
slowest pace since a 2009 recession and less than half the 7
percent expansion the government estimates it needs to meet its
jobs goals. A weaker rand and rising food and fuel prices is
adding to pressure on inflation, making it difficult for the
central bank to reduce  interest rates  to spur spending.  “Household consumption expenditure continued to be
constrained by slower growth in disposable income of households
and rising inflation,” the bank said.  Consumer  confidence  dropped to the lowest level since 2008
last year, undermining household expenditure, which accounts for
about 60 percent of total spending in the economy. Growth in
 consumer spending  slowed to an annualized 2.4 percent in the
final three months of last year from 2.7 percent in the third
quarter, the bank said.  Government spending  contracted 0.7 percent last quarter
compared with an expansion of 8.3 percent as the “relatively
high level of spending on armaments in the third quarter was not
repeated,” the bank said. Gross fixed capital formation rose an
annualized 4.3 percent, down from 5.6 percent in the third
quarter.  Household debt eased to 75.8 percent of disposable income
compared with 76.2 percent in the previous quarter, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  