-- South Sudan Agrees With Sudan to Resume Oil Export Shipments
-- B y   M i c h a e l   G u n n
-- 2013-03-12T09:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/south-sudan-agrees-with-sudan-to-resume-oil-export-shipments-1-.html
South Sudan  and  Sudan  agreed to
order companies to resume southern oil shipments through a Red
Sea export terminal within two weeks, more than a year after
they were halted over a dispute about transportation fees.  “Resumption of production shall take place as soon as
technically feasible,” according to an accord signed today by
 Pagan Amum , South Sudan’s chief negotiator, and Idris Mohamed
Abdel Gader on behalf of Sudan’s government in Ethiopia’s
capital,  Addis Ababa . The two nations also agreed to conclude
processing and transportation agreements within 150 days,
according to the document.  South Sudan halted production in January 2012 after
accusing Sudan’s government of stealing $815 million worth of
its crude. Sudan said it took the oil to recover unpaid
transportation costs and processing fees. That and other
disputes, including over border security, brought the countries
to the brink of war in April.  Under an agreement mediated by former South African
President  Thabo Mbeki , the two countries said they would order
their troops to withdraw 10 kilometers (6 miles) from their
disputed border. South Sudan’s president,  Salva Kiir , issued
orders for the troop pullback yesterday, army spokesman Philip
Aguer said by phone from Juba, the southern capital.  Both sides accuse each other of supporting rebels in their
territories. A similar agreement reached in September was never
implemented.  Civil War  Landlocked South Sudan acquired three-quarters of the
formerly united Sudan’s output of 490,000 barrels a day when it
declared independence in July 2011 after a two-decade civil war.
Before the oil shutdown, South Sudan depended on crude exports
for 98 percent of government revenue.  The oil is pumped mainly by China National Petroleum Corp.,
Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s ONGC Videsh Ltd.  Sudan’s state minister for oil, Faisal Hamadt, said his
government made preparations for the resumption of shipments,
according to a statement published by the state-run Sudanese
Media Centre. He didn’t say when exports may resume.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Gunn in Khartoum at 
 mgunn14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  