-- Spotify Said Expanding Pandora-Like Web Radio Worldwide
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-03-12T20:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/spotify-said-expanding-pandora-like-web-radio-worldwide.html
Spotify Ltd., getting a jump on
Internet radio leader  Pandora Media Inc. (P) , is close to agreements
with record labels to offer free online mobile radio outside the
U.S., said three people with knowledge of the talks.  Spotify seeks to offer ad-supported mobile radio everywhere
it operates starting in April, said the people, who sought
anonymity because the plans aren’t public. The London-based
company said it now offers a Web radio product to mobile users
in the U.S. and desktop users in 20 countries.  The company is using free mobile radio to attract customers
who may convert to its subscription music service, the world’s
biggest. Mobile is key for both companies -- Pandora, for
example, draws three-fourths of its audience on mobile devices
and hasn’t expanded beyond the U.S., Australia and  New Zealand .  Spotify’s markets include the U.S., U.K., Sweden, Germany,
France and Australia, according to the company’s  website . The
service has 24 million active users and 6 million paying
subscribers, 1 million more since December, the company said
today, confirming an earlier Cnet report.  More than 90 percent of Spotify subscribers pay $10 a month
for access to unlimited, commercial-free music on computers and
mobile devices, according to the company. The rest choose a $5 a
month version that’s accessible only on computers.  Adding Territories  The company is seeking to add new territories in its talks
with music publishers and record companies including  Vivendi
SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music and EMI Group, as well as  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s
music business and Warner Music Group, the people said.  Graham James, a spokesman for Spotify, declined to comment.  Spotify and Pandora may face competition from services that
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Beats Electronics LLC plan to start
this year.  Rdio Inc., the music streaming service created by
billionaire Skype co-founder  Janus Friis , will reach 24
countries after beginning service this week in Mexico, Ireland,
Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania and Austria, the company said
in an e-mailed statement.  Free Internet radio listeners on Spotify have limited
control over song selection and hear advertising. Paying
subscribers can create custom playlists and save tracks on
devices.  Pandora, based in Oakland, California, gained 0.6 percent
to $13.82 at the close in New York. The  stock  has climbed 51
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  