-- STMicro, Ericsson Said to Fail to Find Chip-Venture Buyer
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-03-13T18:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/stmicro-ericsson-s-search-for-buyer-for-unit-said-to-stall-1-.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  and Ericsson
AB, the partners looking to pull out of their ST-Ericsson
venture, have failed to find a buyer for the wireless chip
business after a three-month search, according to six people
familiar with the situation.  As a result, the owners are considering winding down the
four-year-old partnership as one option for its future, four of
the people said, asking not to be named because the discussions
are confidential. Potential buyers that were approached,
including  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , declined to make an offer,
said two of the people.  STMicroelectronics and Ericsson want to complete an exit
from the 50-50 partnership in the third quarter. ST-Ericsson has
struggled to introduce higher-powered chipsets and platforms as
the low-end handset business at major customer  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  shrank.
ST-Ericsson said this week that Didier Lamouche, its third chief
executive officer in as many years, will step down to pursue
other opportunities. No successor was named. The venture has
accumulated $2.7 billion in net losses since 2009.  While no final decision has been made, in the event of a
wind-down, Ericsson could take back a research site in Lund,
 Sweden , and STMicroelectronics could integrate a site in
Grenoble,  France , three of the people said.  STMicroelectronics shares rose 0.3 percent to close at 5.84
euros in Paris, while Ericsson rose 1 percent to 83.6 kronor in
 Stockholm .  Continuing Losses  Yesterday, STMicroelectronics  shares  fell as much as 5
percent, the most in four months, after Bloomberg’s report, and
closed down 4.4 percent. Ericsson pared gains of as much as 2.7
percent, closing up 0.7 percent.  If no buyer has been found, “this could make ongoing
operating losses at ST-Ericsson more of a drag than the market
anticipates,” Francois Meunier, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in
 London , said in an e-mailed note. An exit in the third quarter
“seems ambitious” and may cost more than the $500 million
STMicroelectronics has budgeted for it, Meunier said.  Alexis Breton, a spokesman for STMicroelectronics in Paris,
and Ericsson spokesman Ola Rembe declined to comment. After
Lamouche’s resignation, Ericsson said it’s still exploring all
options and that both owners are eager to find a solution.  Samsung declined to comment in an e-mailed statement to
 Bloomberg News .  Job Cuts  Putting an end to the Geneva-based venture is considered a
last resort because of job cuts that might result. Under
Lamouche, a 53-year-old Frenchman who has overseen the venture
since November 2011, ST-Ericsson announced plans to eliminate
1,700 jobs and transfer some product development to
STMicroelectronics.  That wasn’t enough. The chip designer, created when Geneva-
based STMicroelectronics and Stockholm-based Ericsson injected
$1.8 billion in cash and some wireless technologies, reported a
 net loss  of $749 million last year.  Lamouche said a year ago that he expected the company and
its  5,000 employees  needed to make “clear sacrifices” to
reduce costs, including reducing some of its 44 research sites
worldwide -- among which Lund and Grenoble are the biggest.  Government Influence  Moving some operations back to the two shareholders could
limit job cuts, which aren’t favored by European governments. In
 France , where ST-Ericsson employs 1,200 people, mainly in
research and development, Socialist President  Francois Hollande 
has pushed back against companies scaling down. ST-Ericsson has
about 1,400 employees in Sweden. STMicroelectronics is 27.5
percent owned by the French and Italian governments.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is advising on options for the
venture.  ST-Ericsson, which competes with San Diego-based market
leader  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , hasn’t been profitable as its smartphone
and tablet chips failed to offset a decline in sales of older
products.  Europe’s semiconductor makers are trying to cope with the
industry’s sharp price and demand swings. They are losing market
share to Asian and U.S. competitors that have switched to so-
called fabless models, dispensing with factories in favor of
outsourcing to foundries such as  Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. (2330)  That allows chipmakers to adjust designs and
production more quickly without the overhead of running their
own plants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  