-- Stranded Hotel in Australia Emblem of Mining Bust: Commodities
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-03-13T06:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/stranded-hotel-in-australia-emblem-of-mining-bust-commodities.html
A prefabricated six-story hotel,
once destined to house  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  workers, is sitting in
126 boxes stranded on the Melbourne city docks. The stalled
project is a sign of the deepening global  slowdown  in mining.  The contents were to have been assembled 1,990 miles away
at Port Hedland, where BHP planned to use the hotel as temporary
housing for its estimated $22 billion harbor expansion to export
more iron ore. That was before the world’s biggest mining
company scrapped its plan, and the hotel developer went bust.  Global capital spending by mining companies is set to drop
by a third next year to $96 billion, from a record $141 billion
last year, according to UBS AG estimates. Producers have slowed
expansions and delayed projects on expectations that commodities
prices have passed their highs, after economic growth began
slowing in China, the biggest buyer of metals.  “Clearly the rate of new approvals has almost dried up”
for mining projects, Michael Elliott, sector leader for Ernst &
Young LLP’s global mining practice, said in an interview from
Sydney. “A lot of that has been rethinking what rates of return
companies now require from these new investments.”  The 117-member Bloomberg World Mining Index has dropped 8.2
percent this year, with BHP down 3.9 percent, and is set for its
first decline in four quarters. In contrast, the Dow Jones
Industrial Average rose 10 percent and hit a record this month.  Billionaire’s Caution  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s billionaire Chief Executive
Officer Ivan Glasenberg last month called for the big miners to
stop building new mines and blamed their outgoing leadership for
swamping the industry with new output and failing to get returns
for shareholders.  The chief executive officers of BHP, which put $68 billion
of projects on hold last year, Rio Tinto Group and  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  have quit or announced plans to leave after
investors balked at multibillion dollar project writedowns.  “I’m less confident in the mining sector opening their
pockets, particularly given the CEO statements that we’ve seen
across the board and the outlook in commodity prices,” Richard Leupen, chief executive officer of Sydney-based engineering
contractor  UGL Ltd. (UGL)  whose clients include BHP, Rio and Royal
Dutch Shell Plc, said on a conference call last month. Cost
cutting is “endemic in the sector,” he said.  BHP in August mothballed its expansion at Port Hedland,
already the world’s biggest bulk export terminal. Melbourne-
based BHP appointed Ernst & Young as receivers in November to
recover A$50 million ($51 million) it had advanced to Port
Village Accommodation Pty., the hotel developer now in
receivership. BHP said in an e-mail that the receiver has sought
restructuring proposals from third parties.  Salvaging Hotel Project  Hickory Group , the building contractor, is in talks with
various groups, including in Port Hedland, to buy the completed
first stage of the steel, aluminum and glass hotel, Michael
Argyrou, managing director of the Melbourne-based company, said
in an interview. The parties were “serious” and Hickory is
hoping to complete a deal within the next few months, he said.  “The plan was to have Hickory send our people up there to
put together the parts like in Lego to create the hotel,”
Argyrou said. “They’re still sitting at the docks.”  Megan Ball, a spokeswoman for Ernst & Young, declined to
comment on Port Village Accommodation as the company is still in
receivership. KPMG LLP, the administrator appointed by Port
Village, also declined to comment.  An expected slowdown in demand for minerals over the next
five years makes cutting costs and boosting productivity a
priority, Andrew Mackenzie, the incoming CEO of BHP, said last
month in an interview with the Australian Broadcasting Corp.  Peak Prices  Marius Kloppers, whom he will succeed in the top job on May
10, said Feb. 20 there won’t be a return to the peak commodity
prices of 2007.  Eleanor Nichols, a Melbourne-based spokeswoman for BHP,
declined to comment on BHP’s project deferrals, and referred to
Kloppers’ October speech at the Brisbane mining club where he
noted supply catching up with increased demand levels to produce
“more moderated pricing.”  In the past decade, companies built and expanded mines,
port and rail after struggling to feed unprecedented demand
growth from China. This prompted the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index of 24 raw materials to increase almost fourfold since 2001.  The building spree is still being played out.  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,
the world’s fourth-largest nickel producer, is completing the $5
billion Koniambo project in New Caledonia, Rio is due this year
to start the $6.6 billion Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine in
Mongolia and Anglo American Plc is building the $8.8 billion
Minas-Rio iron-ore project in  Brazil . Francis de Rosa, a
spokesman for Xstrata’s coal unit, declined to comment on
project plans, as did Rio Tinto spokesman Bruce Tobin.  Bull Time  “During the bull time of the cycle the big miners were
throwing everything at everything,” Joel Crane, a Melbourne-
based commodity analyst with Morgan Stanley, said by phone. If
new projects are shelved “that may lessen the severity of the
very steep decline in prices most analysts have in their
forecasts,” he said.  Investors cut wagers on a rally for commodities to a four-
year low in the week ended March 5 on signs of surplus supply
and concern demand from  China  is slowing. The four-year
commodity rally to Dec. 31 led to record prices for everything
from gold to copper. Gold prices probably peaked in 2011, Credit
Suisse said last month in a report, while Citigroup Global
Markets Ltd. in a January report cut its price forecasts for
coal and nickel.  Mothballing Projects  The  price  of iron ore probably peaked at about $159 a
metric ton last month and will average $129 over the rest of the
year, according to a Morgan Stanley report this month. It closed
yesterday at $143.40 a ton. Citigroup Inc. in January lowered
its forecast for nickel prices this year to $19,890 a ton, from
$21,770 a ton.  “We expect our super-cycle sunset thesis to continue to
play out in 2013,” Citigroup analysts Heath Jansen and Jon Bergtheil said in the report. China was becoming a “far less
commodity intensive economy” just as a number of projects were
set to deliver first production this year, they said.  The super-cycle hasn’t ended, according to New York-based
hedge fund Galtere Ltd., whose founder chief investment officer
Renee Haugerud said in December that global supplies are at 20-
to 40-year lows as growing populations and urbanization in
 emerging markets  will fuel raw-material demand. Still, he added
that agricultural goods will outperform basic materials.  Further suspension and mothballing of projects may occur in
sectors such as nickel, coal, aluminum and alumina, said Morgan
Stanley’s Crane. They also may extend into iron ore, though
“you’ll probably see less cancellations in copper.”  High Costs  “There may be a lull in terms of new capacity put on line
from around 2015 onwards,” Christian Lelong, a Sydney-based
commodities analyst with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said by phone.
“That could help to tighten the market at that point. So if
you’re looking for some upside caused by project deferrals I
would probably flag met coal, but you will not see it for the
next couple of years.”  BHP’s “very high-cost” Daunia and Caval Ridge coking coal
projects in  Australia ’s Bowen Basin will probably be delayed,
while Xstrata was unlikely to develop the A$6 billion Wandoan
thermal coal project, said Sydney-based UBS analyst Tom Price.  Vale, BHP and Rio, which together control about two-thirds
of seaborne iron ore supply, still are spending about $47
billion on new and bigger  iron ore  mines from Brazil to
Australia. The introduction of new supply has prompted Deutsche
Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to predict a second-half slump
in prices. Vale and Rio are unlikely to develop anytime soon
their separate ore projects in  Guinea , estimated to cost a total
of more than $20 billion, Price said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  