-- Sumitomo Mitsui Said to Weigh Bid for TPG’s Indonesian Bank
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o ,   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2013-03-12T08:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/sumitomo-mitsui-said-to-weigh-bid-for-tpg-s-indonesia-bank-stake.html
Sumitomo Mitsui  Financial Group
Inc. has discussed a potential purchase of TPG Capital’s $1.7
billion stake in Indonesia’s  PT Bank Tabungan Pensiunan
Nasional (BTPN) , said a person with knowledge of the matter.  Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., the lending unit of  Japan ’s
second-biggest bank by market value, isn’t currently in formal
negotiations with TPG, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private. TPG has been
approached by other lenders including Japan’s  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306) , people with knowledge of the matter said
earlier this month.  Japan’s three biggest banks, including  Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. (8411) , have signaled they may accelerate overseas takeovers
to counter  sluggish  loan growth at home. Sumitomo Mitsui
President Koichi Miyata in December identified  Southeast Asia  as
a potential area for acquisitions.  Sohei Nishimaki, a spokesman for Sumitomo Mitsui in Tokyo,
declined to comment. Siobhan Zheng, an outside spokeswoman for
TPG, didn’t immediately return calls and an e-mail.  Originally a lender to retired civil servants, BTPN has
rallied almost 10-fold since its first day of trading on March
14, 2008. The company has a market value of 28.6 trillion rupiah
($2.9 billion), and TPG owns about 58 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Profit Jumps  BTPN, with 19,000 employees and more than 1,000 branches,
boosted profit 41 percent to 1.98 trillion rupiah last year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Earnings have jumped more than
fivefold since 2008, the first full year after TPG made its
initial investment in the lender.  Decades of deflation and on-off economic contraction has
damped credit demand and hurt loan profitability in Japan,
prompting the nation’s so-called megabanks to look to abroad for
growth.  Shares of Sumitomo Mitsui fell 1 percent to 4,100 yen at
the close of trading in  Tokyo . Indonesian markets were closed
for a national holiday today. BTPN slipped 0.5 percent to 4,900
rupiah in Jakarta yesterday.  Sumitomo Mitsui has made an offer for Rabobank Groep’s
Indonesian unit, a person with knowledge of the situation said
on Feb. 21. The bid followed the bank’s agreement in December to
pay HK$3.3 billion ($425 million) to double its stake in  Bank of
East Asia Ltd. ,  Hong Kong ’s largest family-run lender, to 9.5
percent.  In 2007, Sumitomo Mitsui bought 15 percent of Vietnam
Export-Import Commercial Joint Stock Bank, known as Eximbank,
for $225 million. Its larger domestic rival Mitsubishi UFJ in
December sealed a 15.5 trillion dong ($740 million) deal to buy
a stake in VietinBank, or  Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank
for Industry and Trade. (CTG)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  