-- Suntech Must Make Friday Debt Payment, Bondholders Say
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-03-12T20:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/suntech-must-make-friday-debt-payment-bondholders-say.html
Suntech Power Holdings Corp. (STP) , the
Chinese solar-panel maker that announced a forbearance agreement
March 11 for $541 million in convertible debt, may be required
to pay bondholders who haven’t agreed to the deal.  About 60 percent of the bondholders have agreed to wait
until May 15 before exercising their rights, the company said in
a statement.  Some of the remaining 40 percent of bondholders said they
weren’t contacted by the Wuxi, China-based company about a
forbearance and want to be paid on schedule March 15. Suntech is
seeking to restructure its debt after reporting losses for the
past two years. It may not be able to delay the bond payments,
said  Adam Cohen , the founder of Covenant Review, a research firm
in  New York .  The bondholders have an “absolute right” to be repaid the
principal when the bonds mature, Cohen said in an interview
yesterday. “It doesn’t matter that a majority or 60 percent
wants to wait 60 days.”  Trondheim Capital Partners LP, a distressed-debt hedge
fund, owns enough of the Suntech bonds “to make it worthwhile
to file a petition to sue if they don’t pay us,” said Colin
Peterson, the Scottsdale, Arizona-based company’s managing
director. Suntech didn’t contact Trondheim before announcing the
forbearance agreement, he said.  “I’m investigating what our remedies would be,” he said
“I think a bondholder could file for involuntary bankruptcy or
sue for payment.”  Bondholders who haven’t signed the forbearance agreement
have “the right when that payment is missed on Friday to bring
action in state court immediately or take steps toward an
involuntary bankruptcy petition,” James Millar, a partner at
the  law firm  Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP in New
York, said yesterday in an interview.  “Every piece of information that I’ve looked at suggests
that they will default on Friday,” said Millar, who said he has
been contacted by Suntech bondholders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  