-- Swap Traders Seeking Help in Exiting Positions Under Dodd-Frank
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-03-12T18:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/swap-traders-seeking-help-in-exiting-positions-under-dodd-frank.html
New rules mandating that swaps be
backed by clearinghouses and executed on regulated systems are
complicating investors’ ability to exit the derivatives trades,
according to money manager AllianceBernstein Holding LP.  Regulation created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act will require
that most swaps be traded on exchanges or similar electronic
systems known as swap-execution facilities. Investors who want
to terminate contracts that are no longer the most actively
traded, such as a five-year interest-rate swap with only three
and a half years left before expiration, are still required to
use those systems rather than negotiate a price directly with
dealers as they typically would.  “A lot of real-money, buy-side trading practices have been
ignored in this process,” James Wallin, senior vice president
at AllianceBernstein in New York, said in a telephone interview.
How investors can terminate trades in compliance with the Dodd-
Frank Act “is a crucial step in building something that
addresses all of the trading needs,” he said. “Essentially
it’s only a complete market once you have this.”  TrueEX Group LLC, an interest-rate swap exchange in New
York, will begin testing its Portfolio Termination and
Compactions service this week, which aims to allow investors to
electronically offset their cleared swaps in clearinghouses
owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., Sunil Hirani, chief executive officer of trueEX, said in a telephone
interview.  Futures Meeting  “It’s needed because the participants spend way too much
time terminating swaps,” he said. “It’s operationally
inefficient and prone to errors.” In the privately-negotiated
market, investors send a spreadsheet with the transactions they
want to terminate to one or several dealer banks.  Reforms related to swap-execution facilities and other
changes to the $639 trillion over-the-counter derivatives market
will be discussed this week in Boca Raton,  Florida , at the
annual conference of the Futures Industry Association.
Executives from BlackRock Inc., Nasdaq OMX Group and Vanguard
Group, as well as Hirani, are expected to speak in panel
discussions.  Under the new regulations, the process for exiting a
portfolio of such trades should be similar to how block futures
trades are negotiated off exchange, Hirani said.  “Long-term, traders should be able to terminate specific
trades in a clearinghouse by using the trade identifier rather
than having to offset the transaction with a new trade,” Matt Scott, a trader at AllianceBernstein in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “Terminating trades will allow us to
reduce the number of line items we have,” Scott said.  Better Prices  The CFTC and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission are
writing Dodd-Frank rules for swap execution facilities that
compete with exchanges, including those operated by CME Group
and Intercontinental Exchange Inc., for trading of interest
rate, credit and other swaps. The rules are meant to reduce risk
and boost transparency after largely unregulated swaps helped
fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  The five-member CFTC has been negotiating since late last
year on final regulations for trading platforms. The agency has
yet to schedule a vote on the rules to govern trades by firms
such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Investors may also get better prices to terminate cleared
swaps if large trades are treated as blocks as in the futures
market, Scott said.  “We think they’ve done a good job of constructing a rubric
for it, and we are looking forward to seeing this functionality
elsewhere,” Wallin said of trueEX’s termination service.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
said it intends to register with the CFTC as a swap-execution
facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  