-- Swine-Flu Vaccines Carry Slight Risk of Rare Disease
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-03-12T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/swine-flu-vaccines-carry-slight-risk-of-rare-disease.html
Vaccines for the 2009 swine flu
virus carry a small increased risk of a rare paralyzing disease,
though the benefits of the shots far outweigh their risks,
according to a  study  funded by the U.S. government.  In a survey of about 23 million people in the U.S. who were
vaccinated against the H1N1 virus responsible for the first flu
pandemic in four decades, there were 77 cases of Guillain-Barre
syndrome, or about 1.6 extra cases for every 1 million people
vaccinated, researchers led by Daniel Salmon at the U.S.
National Vaccine Program Office wrote in the online version of
The Lancet medical journal today.  Previous studies on the link between flu vaccines and
Guillain-Barre have had mixed results, and a survey of nine
studies by the  Institute of Medicine  in 2011 found a causal link
could not be proved or disproved. The risk identified in today’s
findings, based on the largest vaccination campaign in recent
U.S. history, is so small it wouldn’t be noticed in seasonal flu
vaccine programs, Salmon and colleagues wrote.  “We cannot predict with certainty who will contract
influenza, who will have a serious complication or die from the
disease, or who will have a very rare but serious adverse event
from the vaccine,” the researchers wrote. Doctors, health
officials and the general public “should be assured” that the
benefits of the vaccine outweigh its risks, they wrote.  Vaccination Campaign  A mass flu vaccination campaign was halted in 1976 because
of an association between the shot and Guillain-Barre in adults.
The H1N1 vaccination campaign was the largest in recent U.S.
history, and prevented as many as 1.5 million cases and 500
deaths, the researchers wrote.  In Guillain-Barre syndrome, the immune system damages nerve
cells that can lead to muscle weakness and paralysis. It can
occur spontaneously or after infections,  according  to the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The malady strikes
between 80 and 160 Americans each year regardless of
vaccination, according to the Atlanta-based CDC.  Swine-flu vaccines are made by  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ,  CSL Ltd. (CSL) ,
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ,  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Sanofi. (SAN)   Glaxo’s Pandemrix swine-flu vaccine has also been
associated with an increased risk of narcolepsy in children in
the U.K., Finland and Sweden.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  