-- Sysmex Leads Health Care in Aging Japan: Riskless Return
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2013-03-12T16:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/sysmex-leads-health-care-in-aging-japan-riskless-return.html
As an aging Japan spends more on
health care, companies making blood test devices and
defibrillators are producing the best risk-adjusted returns
among technology stocks while consumer electronics makers such
as Sony Corp. slump.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows  Sysmex Corp. (6869) ,
the world’s biggest maker of devices to count blood cells, had a
return of 27 percent over the last 10 years, adjusted for
volatility, leading the 150 members of the Topix Electric
Appliances Index. The Kobe, Japan-based company had the highest
return, while it ranked the 17th-lowest for volatility.  Nihon
Kohden Corp. (6849) , which makes defibrillators found in offices around
Japan, was second, with adjusted returns of 22 percent.  With almost a quarter of the population aged 65 or over,
according to government statistics, rising demand for medical
devices in Japan has helped the two companies lift operating
profits at least fourfold in the last 10 years. Consumer
electronics makers like Sony and  Sharp Corp. (6753)  have fallen to the
bottom 10 in the ranking, posting losses as sales suffered from
competition with Samsung Electronics Co. With export prospects
strong, both Sony and Sharp are now getting into medical
technology.  “Medical equipment made in Japan still has a technology
edge over overseas makers, unlike consumer electronics,” said
Masamitsu Ohki, a fund manager at Stats Investment Management
Co., a Tokyo-based hedge fund. “Potential for growth is very
high.”  Spending Transfusion  In Japan, spending on all medical care is forecast to swell
39 percent to 52.3 trillion yen ($544 billion) by fiscal 2025
from 37.5 trillion yen in 2010, according to government
estimates. The global medical device, technology and equipment
business will be worth more than $348.6 billion by 2016, up from
$307.7 billion last year, U.K.-based business information
provider Espicom estimates.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Sysmex’s operations are spread  across developed and
emerging regions  that have increasing life expectancy and
growing health-care needs, boosting its appeal to investors.
With less than 30 percent of its sales in Japan, it gets 28
percent of revenue from Europe, 21 percent in the U.S. and 14
percent in China.  Operating Profit  President Hisashi Ietsugu wrote in a note to shareholders
on the company’s  website  last month that the company maintains
its  forecast  for operating profit to rise 4.1 percent to a
record 20 billion yen in the current fiscal year through March
despite what he called “cautious purchasing” of medical
equipment in the U.S. and China.  Sysmex’s investment value exceeds its brand recognition in
Japan. With a staff of 5,300, the company is little known to the
general public beyond being the employer of Mizuki Noguchi, who
won the women’s marathon at the 2004 Olympics in Athens.  The medical equipment maker’s business model echoes that of
a printer maker in part: Like a printer and toner cartridges,
once a blood testing device has been sold, further sales of
chemicals used in tests, along with maintenance services, are
“relatively impervious to economic downturns,” according to
the  company . Sales from that segment of its business account for
more than half of Sysmex’s total revenue.  Overseas Tailwind  “The medical equipment industry is one of a few growing
industries,” said Mitsuko Miyasako, a Tokyo-based analyst at
Barclays Plc. “The developed countries are aging, and there’s a
tailwind from emerging countries as they’re trying to promote
health-care technology.”  The average volatility in the Topix Electric Appliances
Index in the last 10 years was 42.9. For Sysmex, volatility was
33.9, while for Nihon Kohden it was 37.3.  Koji Uchida, a fund manager at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo, said the low volatility reflects the
fact that medical technology companies are producing and selling
finished goods that generate reliable future sales.  “Doctors want to keep using what they’re used to, so once
they find equipment they like, they usually keep using it,”
Uchida said. “Revenue from materials and maintenance services
also contribute to the stable growth of earnings and the share
price.”  At the bottom of the ranking, Sharp produced the sixth-
lowest risk-adjusted return among the 150 companies, Sony ranked
10th from last and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  34th from the bottom.  Brain Scanning  Buffeted by an appreciating yen over much of the last
decade and competition from Apple Inc. and Samsung, the trio
lost 1.6 trillion yen combined in the last fiscal year. They
have now slipped outside the world’s top 500 companies by market
value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Ten years ago,
Sony led the three in 88th position.  Like Sysmex, Nihon Kohden has plans to boost sales abroad.
Japan currently accounts for about four-fifths of revenue. It
has customers including Johns Hopkins Hospital and Cleveland
Clinic in the U.S. for its brain scanning equipment, according
to its website. The company is  forecasting sales  of at least 200
billion yen in the 12 months ending March 2020, compared with
its estimate of 130 billion yen this fiscal year, it said in
February.  “Japanese medical equipment makers are expanding sales
with their specialized products with advanced technology in a
niche market,” Uchida said. “Share performance has been
strong, as they are solidly boosting sales and profits.”  Medical Technology  Sony, Panasonic and Sharp are all now trying to expand
their presence in the medical technology business.  Tokyo-based Sony completed the purchase of an 11 percent
stake in  Olympus Corp. (7733) , the world’s biggest maker of endoscopes,
for 50 billion yen in February in a move aimed at jointly
developing and selling new medical devices.  Olympus’ medical technology is recovering from one of
Japan’s biggest corporate accounting scandals in years. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. upgraded the company’s  stock  to buy from
neutral in January and named it as top pick in the Japanese
precision equipment sector, citing the potential for growth in
endoscope sales in both China and developed nations keen to cut
medical costs.  Sharp is trying to sell its most advanced liquid-crystal
display panels, offering higher resolution, for applications in
medical equipment. Last year Panasonic began marketing a 32-inch
medical-grade 3-D monitor specifically designed for operating
theaters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  