-- U.A.E. Appoints Energy Minister, Replaces Eight-Year Veteran
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-03-12T13:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/u-a-e-appoints-new-energy-minister-replaces-eight-year-veteran.html
Suhail Mohammed Al Mazrouei was
appointed energy minister of the United Arab Emirates, replacing
an eight-year veteran at the helm of oil policy in the Persian
Gulf nation holding 6 percent of global crude reserves.  Al-Mazrouei took over from Mohamed Bin Dhaen Al-Hamli in a
government reorganization, the official news agency WAM
reported today. The report gave no reason for the departure of
Al-Hamli, 60, who had been energy minister since November 2004.  Al-Hamli leaves his post as Abu Dhabi, the emirate holding
most of the U.A.E.’s oil, prepares to renew its largest onshore
concessions.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,
Total SA and Partex Oil & Gas have been shareholders in output
from fields under a concession that dates to 1939. The U.A.E. is
the fifth-largest producer in OPEC, pumping 2.65 million barrels
a day in February, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Al-Mazrouei serves on the advisory committee of Abu Dhabi’s
Supreme Petroleum Council, which sets energy policy, and works
as deputy chief executive officer of Mubadala Petroleum, a
state-owned energy investment company, which among other
projects is helping supply the U.A.E. with imported natural gas.  He also represents Mubadala in several joint ventures,
including Tatweer Petroleum and Dolphin Energy Ltd, according to
Mubadala’s website. Dolphin Energy is a venture with  Total SA (FP) 
and  Occidental Petroleum Corp (OXY)  that pipes Qatari gas to Abu
Dhabi, Dubai, another of the U.A.E’s sheikhdom and on to Oman.  Production Assets  The new minister has managed production for five operating
companies of the Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., according to the
Mubadala website. He coordinated assets producing more than 1
million barrels a day, it said.  Al-Mazrouei also worked on projects in Nigeria, the North
Sea, Brunei and the Netherlands while on secondment to Shell,
according to the website. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree
in petroleum engineering from Tulsa University in the U.S.  Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, U.A.E. vice
president and prime minister, announced a new cabinet, keeping
the ministers of defense, interior, foreign affairs, economy and
finance unchanged, WAM said. Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber, chief
executive officer and managing director of government-run
renewable energy company Masdar, was appointed state minister
without portfolio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  