-- U.K. House-Price Index Declines as Demand Rebound Falls Short
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-03-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/u-k-house-price-index-declines-as-demand-rebound-falls-short.html
An index of U.K.  house prices  fell
for a second month in February as interest from potential buyers
failed to rebound fully from a slump in January, according to
the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors.  A gauge by London-based RICS declined to minus 6 from minus
4 in January, it said in an e-mailed report today, citing a
monthly poll of property surveyors. While measures of new buyer
inquiries and instructions from home sellers rose last month
after heavy snow in January hit activity, they “disappointingly
point to a leveling off” rather than a rebound, RICS said.  While the February price index declined, RICS said lower
mortgage interest rates are helping to support confidence in the
market, with surveyors more upbeat on the outlook for prices and
sales. The  Bank of England  said last week that its Funding for
Lending Scheme, intended to reduce banks’ funding costs, should
continue to ease credit conditions.  “It’s encouraging to see that the housing market now
appears to be picking up across most parts of the U.K. despite
ongoing concerns about the health of the economy,” RICS
director Peter Bolton King said. “However even with activity
running at its best level since the middle of 2010, it is still
well down on its pre-crisis norm.”  In a separate report today, the Home Builders Federation
said the number of approvals for new homes granted by local
authorities across  England  surged 33 percent to 45,041 in the
fourth quarter from the previous three months. That’s up 62
percent from a year earlier.  Buyer Interest  While RICS’ index of  new buyer enquiries  increased to 3 in
February from minus 10 in January, the measure remains below its
level in December. The gauge of new home sales instructions
gained to 1 from minus 5. According to RICS, surveyors see the
weakness in demand as “transitory,” partly because of
“improvements in part of the lending environment.”  The BOE said yesterday that  mortgage rates  continued to
decline in February. The average rate on a two-year fixed loan
with a 75 percent loan-to-value ratio was 2.87 percent, down
from 3.69 percent in August. For a five-year fixed loan, the
rate was 3.58 percent, down from 4.11 percent.  On the outlook, RICS said its three-month price
expectations gauge rose to 5 from 1, while the 12-month
expectations jumped to 25 from 18. On sales, three-month
expectations improved to 8 from 6, while the year-ahead measure
increased to 53 from 50.  In another report, VocaLink Ltd. said take-home pay growth
at Britain’s largest publicly traded companies slowed to 0.5
percent in the three months through February from 0.7 percent in
the quarter through January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  