-- U.K. ONS Publishes Historical Data for New Inflation Indexes
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-03-12T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/u-k-ons-publishes-historical-data-for-new-inflation-indexes.html
The  Office for National Statistics 
published historical data for two new measures of inflation it
will introduce next month.  The new RPIJ index, which adjusts the existing Retail Price
Index to use a geometric method of averaging price change, was
2.5 percent in December versus 3.1 percent for the RPI, the ONS
said. A measure called CPIH, which adds owner-occupiers’ housing
costs to the existing Consumer Price Index, was 2.5 percent
versus 2.7 percent for the CPI. Data for February will be
published March 19 along with monthly inflation data.  The statistics office introduced RPIJ to address
difficulties with the RPI’s method of calculating some price
changes. National Statistician Jil Matheson ran a public
consultation last year to assess whether to change the RPI, the
basis for the inflation-linked  bond market , and users’
opposition prompted her to leave the index untouched.  The statistics office said on Jan. 10 that while the
current RPI measure doesn’t meet international standards, there
is value “in maintaining the continuity of the existing RPI’s
long-term series without major change, so that it may continue
to be used for long-term indexation and for index-linked gilts
and bonds in accordance with user expectations.”  The RPIJ replaces the so-called Carli method of price
averaging for some items in the index’s basket of goods with the
Jevons method. The RPI is being assessed by the Statistics
Authority to establish whether its shortcomings will merit
continued designation as a National Statistic.  The February reading for the two new indexes, along with
the RPI and CPI, the  Bank of England ’s target, will be released
March 19. Both will be published as experimental statistics
until the U.K. Statistics Authority completes its review of the
gauges around mid-2013.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  has been saying since
at least 2008 that it would be desirable for policy makers’
official target to include a measure of housing. The CPIH
measure includes costs associated with housing such as mortgage
payments, insurance, real-estate agents’ fees and maintenance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  