-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Hold Near 2-Year Low; Discovery Sells Bonds
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-03-12T21:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-hold-near-lowest-level-in-two-years.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk held at about the lowest level in two years as investors
awaited the release of reports that may signal whether the
economic recovery is taking hold.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.2
basis point to a mid-price of 79.7 basis points, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure fell to 79.5 basis
points yesterday, its lowest closing level since Feb. 17, 2011.  U.S. retail sales probably rose in February for the fourth
month amid an improved job market and stronger household
finances, according to the median  forecast  in a Bloomberg survey
of 82 economists before figures from the Commerce Department
tomorrow. Signs the economy is strengthening may boost investor
confidence in companies’ ability to repay debt.  “Investors are pretty upbeat about the trend in the  U.S.
economy , even if they’re not euphoric about the numbers,” Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond strategy at New York-based
Susquehanna International Group LLP, said today in a telephone
interview.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Discovery Sale  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) , owner of cable networks TLC
and Animal Planet, issued $1.2 billion of bonds in its first
sale in 10 months to help fund its purchase of 12 Scandinavian
television networks.  The company sold $350 million of 3.25 percent, 10-year debt
to yield 125 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries
and $850 million of 4.875 percent, 30-year bonds at a relative
yield of 165 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 0.8 basis point to 399.4 basis points, halting
three days of declines, Bloomberg prices show.  The cost to protect  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ’s debt from
default dropped to the lowest level since Oct. 18 after the
second-largest maker of processors for personal computers said
it will sell and lease back its property in Austin,  Texas . The
sale is expected to generate about $164 million in cash net of
fees, according to a company statement.  Covenant Quality  Five-year credit-default swaps on the company’s debt
dropped 9 basis points to 843.5 basis points as of 3:37 p.m. in
 New York , according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The contracts have dropped 94 basis
points the past three trading sessions.  Covenant quality for high-yield debt deteriorated in
February, reaching the lowest level in at least two years, a
report from Moody’s Investors Service showed today.  Moody’s covenant-quality index dropped to 3.96 last month,
continuing an erosion in quality for North American high-yield
bonds that began in July, according to Alexander Dill, lead
covenant analyst. The scale, which fell to the lowest since
Moody’s began tracking the data in January 2011, spans from 1 to
5, with one representing a strong covenant.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt slid 1 basis point to 489.4 basis points, Bloomberg
data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  