-- U.S. Intelligence Chief ‘Very Concerned’ on North Korea
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-03-12T21:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/u-s-intelligence-chief-very-concerned-on-north-korea.html
North Korea’s nuclear weapons and
missile programs pose a “serious threat” to the U.S. and its
allies in Asia, according to U.S. intelligence agencies in an
unclassified worldwide threat assessment.  Presenting the report to the Senate intelligence committee
yesterday, Director of National IntelligenceJames Clapper said
he is “very concerned” about the actions of North Korea’s
leader Kim Jong Un and the “very belligerent” rhetoric that
has been emanating from his regime.  His testimony comes as tensions on the Korean peninsula are
at the highest since at least 2010, with North Korea threatening
nuclear strikes and withdrawing from the 1953 armistice ending
the Korean War.  “The rhetoric, while it is propaganda laced, is also an
indicator of their attitude and perhaps their intent,” Clapper
told the committee. “So, for my part, I am very concerned about
what they might do.” The North is capable of initiating “a
provocative action against the South,” he said.  North Korea is combat-ready with strategic rockets and
“diversified surgical nuclear strike mechanisms,” the state-
run Rodong Sinmun newspaper said March 11.  There’s no evidence yet that Kim’s regime has nuclear-armed
ballistic missiles to target the U.S. and South Korea. There’s
also no public information on whether the North has been able to
covertly advance beyond testing to weaponizing a nuclear device.  ‘Hyperbolic’ Rhetoric  North Korea does have a large, non-nuclear force “held in
check by the more powerful South Korean-U.S. military
alliance,” according to the intelligence agencies’ report.
“Nevertheless, the North Korean military is well postured to
conduct limited attacks with little or no warning, such as the
2010 sinking of a South Korean warship and the artillery
bombardment of a South Korean island along the Northern Limit
Line.”  Earlier this week, U.S. National Security Adviser Thomas Donilon called North Korea’s threats of preemptive nuclear
strikes “hyperbolic.”  “North Korea’s claims may be hyperbolic -- but as to the
policy of the United States, there should be no doubt. We will
draw upon the full range of our capabilities to protect against,
and to respond to, the threat posed to us and to our allies by
North Korea,” he said in a March 11 speech to the Asia Society
in New York.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration, while open to
talks with North Korea, “will not play the game of accepting
empty promises or yielding to threats,” Donilon said.  Obama Meeting  New South Korean President Park Geun Hye plans to meet with
Obama at the White House in early May to discuss the North
Korean threat and mark the 60th anniversary of the alliance,
Park spokesman Yoon Chang Jung told reporters yesterday in
Seoul.  The Kim regime successfully fired a long-range rocket in
December and detonated underground what it described as a
“smaller and light” nuclear device two months later, both in
defiance of the United Nations Security Council.  Satellite images from as recently as early this month show
no preparations under way for a rocket launch in the next month
at either of two test facilities, according to research
published yesterday by the  38 North website  of the U.S.-Korea
Institute at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced
International Studies in Washington.  North Korea’s rocket tests show its “commitment to develop
long-range missile technology that could pose a direct threat to
the United States,” according to the U.S. intelligence
agencies’ report.  ‘Coercive Diplomacy’  The U.S. intelligence community has long assessed that
North Korea’s nuclear ambitions are for “deterrence,
international prestige, and coercive diplomacy,” according to
the report.  “Although we assess with low confidence that the North
would only attempt to use nuclear weapons against U.S. forces or
allies to preserve the Kim regime, we do not know what would
constitute, from the North’s perspective, crossing that
threshold,” according to the report.  South Korea’s won closed near a four-month low against the
dollar on rising tensions. The benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 0.5
percent to 1,933.34.  North Korea may be holding as many as 200,000 political
prisoners in camps with enforced labor where conditions are
“dire” and “horrid,” Marzuki Darusman, the UN’s special
rapporteur on the human-rights situation in North Korea, told
reporters in Geneva yesterday. “These camps have the purpose of
driving the people detained there toward a slow death,” he
said.  Mass Starvation  Those and other actions by the regime, including torture
and mass starvation, may constitute crimes against humanity,
Darusman told the UN Human Rights Council. He urged the UN to
create an independent commission to place responsibility for the
abuses.  While North Korea has cut the border phone line before, its
technological advances have increased the possibility of more
provocations, George A. Lopez, a former UN sanctions
investigator on North Korea, said in an e-mail.  “What I worry most about is that in the past the bluster
from DPRK was not really matched by much capability,” said
Lopez, a professor at the University of Notre Dame in Indiana.
“Now DPRK defiance of sanctions can be played out in a big way
via a new nuke test or missile launch or both.”  DPRK stands for North Korea’s official name, the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea.  Kim Visit  During a visit to a front-line artillery post on North
Korea’s Wolnae Islet, Kim expressed confidence in the unit’s
ability to turn South Korea’s Baengnyeong Island into “a sea of
fire,” the official Korean Central News Agency said.  The location is significant because 46 South Korean seamen
died in March 2010 after the naval ship Cheonan sank in waters
near Baengnyeong, about 210 kilometers (130 miles) northwest of
Seoul. While an international panel said the North torpedoed the
ship, the Pyongyang government denied any involvement.  North Korea will stage a mass military drill on its eastern
coast soon, South Korean Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok
said at a briefing in Seoul yesterday. The South advises its
people not to get nervous, he said.  South Korea and the U.S. on March 11 began their “Key
Resolve” exercise.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  