-- UBS Said to Be in Talks to Acquire Banca Intermobiliare
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-03-12T11:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/ubs-said-to-be-in-talks-to-acquire-banca-intermobiliare.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
is in talks to buy  Banca Intermobiliare di Investimenti e
Gestioni SpA  of  Italy  as it seeks to expand in private banking,
according to a person familiar with the discussions.  Talks on the transaction with owner Veneto Banca Scpa are
ongoing, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the negotiations are private. Veneto Banca said it’s considering
seeking a partner for  Banca Intermobiliare (BIM)  and its private-
banking operations, according to a stock-exchange statement.
Officials for UBS in Zurich and Milan declined to comment.  Banca Intermobiliare jumped 9.6 percent to 1.95 euros in
Milan, before trading was suspended by the exchange. The company
has a market value of 305 million euros ($396 million). The
talks were reported earlier today by newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  says his goal is to
recoup the assets UBS lost in 2008 and 2009 by growing faster
than the market and he hasn’t excluded acquisitions. Based in
Turin, Italy, Banca Intermobiliare oversees about 14 billion
euros in assets and has branches in more than 30 Italian cities.  The Italian wealth manager said last week that it’s
reviewing a report by the  Bank of Italy  into the reserves it set
aside for deteriorating credits that are backed by real estate.
The company is considering the appropriate precautions, which
will probably have a negative impact on its year-end results, it
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  