-- Lufthansa’s Austrian Flop Draws Airline to More Joint Ventures
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-03-12T15:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/lufthansa-s-austrian-flop-draws-airline-to-more-joint-ventures.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  said the
disappointing returns of its Austrian Airlines subsidiary are
reinforcing the carrier’s commitment to target partnerships over
outright takeovers to help expand its route network.  Lufthansa has announced a partnership with  All Nippon
Airways Co. (9202)  on Japan-Germany flights to share costs and
coordinate fares, and the carrier is seeking regulator approval
for a trans-Atlantic joint venture with  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  Similar tie-ups may follow, said Isabel
Todenhoefer, who oversees mergers and acquisitions at Lufthansa.  “We expect that in the coming years we’ll be able to
consolidate further, away from our European markets,”
Todenhoefer said at a conference in Dusseldorf today. “In 2009,
we thought traffic in eastern Europe would explode. That clearly
didn’t happen.”  Lufthansa’s Austrian subsidiary had sought to capitalize on
 travel demand  in Europe, which didn’t materialise as predicted
amid sluggish economic growth, according to Todenhoefer.
Passenger growth at Austrian was 1.8 percent last year, trailing
the 2.4 percent carried by the group and 3 percent by the Swiss
division.  Lufthansa has been discussing closer ties with Turkish
Airlines since at least November, as the company explores deeper
ties with carriers serving the booming Gulf region. The airlines
are members of the  Star Alliance , and are partners in the
Antalya-based Turkish low-cost carrier SunExpress.  “When it comes to traffic flows, we see much more coming
from Asia, Africa and the  Middle East  and we hope to participate
in that growth,” Todenhoefer said.  Lufthansa is still working on a sale of parts of its LSG
Sky Chefs catering business, though there is no immediate
deadline for a transaction, Todenhoefer said. The Lufthansa
Technik maintenance and repair unit adds value beyond merely
contributing earnings, Todenhoefer said.  “We think the fact that we have it and it’s No. 1 in its
business provides the aura of safety and security the airline
needs,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  