-- Under Jordan Swiss National Bank Returns to Being Boring
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-03-13T10:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/under-jordan-swiss-national-bank-returns-to-being-boring.html
Swiss National Bank President
Thomas Jordan says his best investment is the first drink he
ever bought his wife.  Jordan, a bespectacled central-bank veteran, took the top
job at the SNB in April after Philipp Hildebrand resigned. Since
assuming the helm, Jordan has sought to return calm to the
century-old institution after the furor sparked by a currency
purchase of $504,000 by Hildebrand’s wife in August 2011, just
three weeks before the central bank imposed a ceiling to weaken
the franc.  Jordan made the quip about his wife’s drink at a Sept. 3
conference in Zurich when the controversy about the currency
dealings of the Hildebrand family was fresh in the public’s
mind. He was already responsible for keeping the franc capped at
1.20 per euro. The SNB probably will stick to that ceiling when
the central bank announces results of its quarterly monetary
policy assessment at 9:30 a.m. in Zurich tomorrow.  “After the turmoil of last January, when the central bank
became the target of politicians, they must want to lower their
profile,” said Alessandro Bee, an economist at Bank Sarasin in
Zurich. “Mr. Hildebrand was more of the showman, and Mr. Jordan
is more dry.”  Both Jordan and Hildebrand were born in the mountainous
canton of Bern in 1963, and as youths both participated in water
sports: Jordan played water polo, while Hildebrand swam,
narrowly missing qualification for the 1984 Olympics.  Common Origins  From these common origins, their paths diverged, with
Jordan joining the central bank in 1997 after leaving
university. Hildebrand worked for a hedge fund in  London  and  New
York  and two Swiss private banks before joining the central
bank’s board in 2003. He took over as president in 2010.  Soft-spoken Jordan, 50, epitomizes his nation’s preference
for discreet and consensus-oriented negotiations and an aversion
to people who make a splash.  “In terms of communication, the central bank became more
bland,” said Sanda Ionescu, a Geneva-based consultant who works
for the cross-cultural communication company Communicaid.
“Jordan is seen as reliable and trustworthy. He is much more
typically Swiss than Hildebrand. The good old Swiss style seems
to be the one it pays to stick to.”  Carney to Draghi  With the Jordan appointment,  Switzerland  returned to its
habit of picking insiders. While Hildebrand joined the SNB’s
three-member rate-setting board from private banking, his
predecessor Jean-Pierre Roth spent decades ascending the rungs
of the SNB, as did Hans Meyer who served as president from 1996
to 2000.  Both Bank of Canada chief  Mark Carney  and European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  worked for Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
before taking their central bank jobs, while U.S. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  and  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King  joined from academia.  Even as Switzerland has escaped recession, Jordan says
giving up the currency cap is still a long way off, according to
remarks on Feb 27. The SNB has held its benchmark  interest rate 
at zero since August 2011 and will maintain that rate at
tomorrow’s meeting, according to all 22 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  His speeches tend to stick to the same theme: The central
bank will do its utmost to defend the cap on the franc, in place
since September 2011, and is prepared to take further measures,
should the growth and inflation outlook require it.  “Jordan keeps a lower profile,” Sarasin’s Bee said. “I
think they’re attempting to take the personality out of the
equation and put policy front and center.”  Hildebrand Crisis  The SNB emerged from the Hildebrand crisis with its
international reputation intact. Hildebrand’s wife, Kashya,
defended the purchase, saying she bought dollars because the
currency was “ridiculously cheap.”  While the affair dominated newspaper headlines, it didn’t
rattle the currency market. Save for a short breach in April,
the cap on the franc has stuck. The policy has come with a price
as the SNB spent 188 billion francs in 2012 to enforce the cap,
up 10-fold from 2011, and its reserves have ballooned to almost
three-quarters of annual gross domestic product.  The SNB will keep the ceiling into 2015, said  Reto Huenerwadel , an economist at UBS in Zurich. “Next possible
steps would be a surcharge on franc sight deposits held at the
SNB. This, however, is a very, very distant scenario at the
current trajectory.”  Euro Region  Since Draghi disclosed details in September of the ECB’s
bond-buying efforts to stabilize the euro region, pressure on
the franc’s cap has diminished, though last month’s Italian
elections highlighted that threat. The franc reacted to the
Italian vote by rising to a six-week high against the euro.  The central bank’s strategy proved effective, partly
because of good fortune, said Martin Gueth, an economist at LBBW
in Stuttgart. “They’ve been lucky in that the crisis in the
euro area became less acute and what happens there is out of
their hands,” he said in a telephone interview.  The franc has depreciated 2 percent since the start of this
year as the euro-area crisis eased. It traded at 1.23213 at
11:54 a.m. in Zurich, little changed on the day.  Jordan, who regularly arrives at public events without much
entourage and keeps his question-and-answer sessions short,
received his doctorate from the University of Bern, before
spending three years at Harvard, studying under professor
Benjamin Friedman. Jordan’s wife, whom he met at school, teaches
languages. They have two sons.  Confrontation Avoided  That contrasts with Hildebrand, 49, who attended Oxford
University, and now serves as vice chairman of BlackRock Inc. in
London.  “With his more Anglo-Saxon style, Mr. Hildebrand rubbed
members of the political elite the wrong way,” Bee said,
pointing to Hildebrand’s tendency to speak his mind in public.
Swiss politicians often avoid direct confrontation in parliament
and the country has been ruled by coalitions of the biggest
parties since 1959.  Hildebrand was never publicly accused by the government of
wrongdoing. He stepped down on Jan. 9, 2012, vowing that he had
not known about his wife’s purchase.  Christoph Blocher, a former justice minister and member of
the anti-immigrant  Swiss People’s Party , SVP, was Hildebrand’s
long-running adversary who repeatedly criticized his running of
the central bank, especially after the  record loss  in 2010 due
to interventions to weaken the franc. Blocher then helped pass
Hildebrand’s private financial transactions to the government,
bringing about his resignation.  Proposal Rejected  Swiss lawmakers in March 2012 rejected an SVP proposal to
curb the central bank’s ability to intervene in  currency markets 
and Blocher has grown silent in his criticisms since Jordan was
appointed president in April.  “The Swiss political establishment, including the SVP, has
great confidence in Thomas Jordan,” Ernst Baltensperger,
professor emeritus at the University of Bern, said in an e-mail.
“This is reflected in the general support the SNB currently
receives,” said Baltensperger, who served as Jordan’s PhD
supervisor. “Of course, the fact that the exchange rate
situation has become a bit less tense has also helped” Jordan
and the bank, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  