-- Hungarian Inflation Was Slowest Since June 2006 on Energy Costs
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-03-12T08:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/hungarian-inflation-was-slowest-since-june-2006-on-energy-costs.html
Hungarian consumer prices rose at
the slowest pace in almost seven years in February as the
government cut household energy costs, making room for the
central bank’s new management to lower interest rates further.  The  inflation rate  dropped to 2.8 percent from 3.7 percent
the previous month, the Budapest-based statistics office said
today. That compares with the 3.1 percent median estimate of 21
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Prices fell 0.1 percent from
the previous month.  Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s government cut the costs of
natural gas, electricity and heating by 10 percent in January,
taming inflation and paving the way for further reductions in
borrowing costs from the current 5.25 percent amid a deepening
recession. Central bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy, Orban’s
former economy minister, vowed to focus on growth and employment
without threatening price stability when he took office last
week.  “The drop in inflation has already been enough to prove
the central bank’s point that they have room to cut rates -- as
if they needed any excuse,”  Agata Urbanska , a London-based
economist at HSBC, said yesterday by phone. “I don’t see them
stopping at 5.25 percent. But perhaps they’ll look at what else
there is” to boost growth.  The forint declined to a nine-month low yesterday on
concern Matolcsy is concentrating power to reshape monetary
policy, before recovering about half of the losses after Economy
Minister  Mihaly Varga  said the government is ready to stem the
depreciation.  Forint, CDS  The currency closed 0.8 percent lower in Budapest at 301.38
per euro, having dropped earlier by as much as 1.4 percent to
303.61, the weakest level since June 4. The cost of insuring
Hungarian government debt against default for five years with
credit-default swaps jumped 12 basis points to 320 yesterday,
the highest since Oct. 10.  Matolcsy stripped two of his deputies,  Ferenc Karvalits  and
Julia Kiraly, appointed under a previous government, of some of
their powers on March 8. He shifted responsibility to Adam Balog, a vice president appointed by Orban.  Policy makers have reduced borrowing costs by 1.75
percentage points in the last seven months to a record-low 5.25
percent as the  recession deepened . Gross domestic product shrank
2.7 percent from a year earlier in the fourth quarter, the
steepest slump in three years, a report showed last week.  New Head  Orban moved Matolcsy to the central bank as he seeks to
lift the economy from its second recession in four years before
elections in 2014. Matolcsy, who has urged the Magyar Nemzeti
Bank to embrace unconventional monetary tools to stimulate
growth, engineered the government’s self-styled unorthodox
policies, which contributed to the economic slump.  The policies included special levies on the banking,
energy, retail and telecommunications industries, as well as the
nationalization of private pension-fund assets to keep the
budget shortfall below 3 percent of economic output to avoid
losing EU development funds.  Electricity and gas companies challenged this year’s forced
10 percent price reduction in court, citing their tax burden.
The court ruled in favor of gas companies yesterday and a
decision in the case filed by electricity providers is due next
week.  Speaking yesterday in parliament, Orban called the court
ruling “scandalous” and pledged to impose more price cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  