-- Hungary Wants to Curb Foreign Banks Amid EU Democracy Clash
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-03-12T17:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/hungary-threatens-to-take-over-foreign-banks-amid-clash-with-eu.html
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  plans
to curb foreign banks’ presence in Hungary, risking a deepening
clash with the European Union and lifting the cost of insuring
the country’s bonds against default to a five-month high.  Hungary seeks to lift local bank-industry ownership to at
least 50 percent, Orban said today in Budapest.  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP)  may cut its presence, CEO Enrico Tommaso Cuchicani said
today, calling Hungary a “nightmare,” while  Danske Bank (DANSKE)  A/S
said the move is “in effect threatening to nationalize” part
of the industry.  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI) ,  UniCredit SpA (UNIP) , Bayerische Landesbank and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  are among those also active in Hungary.  The proposal threatens to widen the rift between the EU’s
most-indebted eastern state and the rest of the 27-nation bloc
over changes to the constitution Hungarian lawmakers passed
yesterday that limit court independence. Investors have sold the
forint this month on concern the central bank will lower
 interest rates  more after Orban appointed Gyorgy Matolcsy to
lead the institution in a push to overhaul policy making amid a
deepening recession.  “If the Hungarian government and the new central bank
leadership continue to pursue such a highly unorthodox policy,
there is a serious risk of a major market meltdown,” analysts
at Danske Bank led by Lars Christensen said in the note. “We
find it difficult to see how the Hungarian government will fund
itself on international capital markets if the government and
the central bank don’t move very soon to calm market fears.”  ‘Unhealthy Situation’  The European Commission would seek to force Hungary to
modify the constitutional amendments if a review shows that they
violate European norms and values, Olivier Bailly, a spokesman
for the EU’s executive, told reporters today in Brussels.  “It’s an unhealthy situation that foreigners have such a
high degree of ownership in  Hungary ’s banking system,” Orban
said today. “While respecting international treaties and
relevant economic norms, we must strive to increase the
Hungarian ownership ratio within the Hungarian banking system.
The government has a target number -- we would like at least 50
percent of the Hungarian banking system to be in Hungarian
hands.”  The forint weakened the most in almost three months today,
sliding 1.3 percent to 305.89 per euro by 6:09 p.m. in Budapest.
The yield on Hungary’s 10-year bonds denominated in dollars rose
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 5.722 percent.  Default Swaps  Worsening perceptions of creditworthiness lifted the cost
of credit default swaps protecting Hungary’s debt by 21 basis
points to 341, the biggest jump in 14 months and the highest
level in five months. The swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should an issuer fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The “contentious changes to the constitution overshadow
relations between the country and Germany and the EU,” the
German government said in a statement today.  Budapest-based  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s biggest lender,
competes with local units of Austria’s Erste and Raiffeisen,
Italy’s UniCredit and Intesa,  Bayerische Landesbank  of Germany,
Belgium’s KBC, and U.S.-based General Electric and Citigroup.
Hungary’s state-owned development bank MFB last year bought a
stake in Takarekbank, a savings bank, from Germany’s DZ Bank AG.  The government may use Takarekbank, a network of savings
cooperatives, the post office and other state organizations to
build a network which can help ease the country’s funding
shortage “on a national level,” Orban said.  Hungarian stocks fell, led by a 2.1 percent drop in OTP.
Mortgage provider FHB Jelzalogbank Nyrt. slid 1.2 percent to its
lowest close this year.  “Orban wants to force foreign banks out of the country,
but this is a democracy and free market, which means it is not
acceptable,” John Milton, director of  Ipopema Securities SA (IPE) ’s
unit in Budapest, wrote in e-mailed comments today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  