-- Munich Re Sees 2013 Profit Little Changed on Rates
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-03-12T08:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/munich-re-sees-2013-profit-little-changed-on-lower-rates.html
Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, said profit this year will be about 3 billion euros
($3.9 billion), little changed from 2012, as prices remain
stable and lower  interest rates  weigh on investment income.  “Even though the consolidation of state finances and high
unemployment will result in slower economic momentum in many
industrialized countries, we remain optimistic for our
business,” Nikolaus von Bomhard, chief executive officer of the
Munich-based reinsurer, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Reinsurers such as Munich Re and  Hannover Re (HNR1) , the world’s
fourth-largest, benefited from reduced losses from natural
catastrophes last year and a market rally. This year they are
trying to boost revenue from higher-yielding assets such as
 renewable energy  and property as returns from bonds decline and
reinsurance prices stay stable.  Munich Re rose 0.7 percent to 145.70 euros at 9:10 a.m. in
Frankfurt, taking gains this year to 7.2 percent and valuing the
firm at 26 billion euros. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Insurance Index
rose 0.1 percent today and 4.7 percent since Jan. 1.  With investment returns of an annual 3.3 percent, “regular
income from investments is likely to be relatively low” this
year,  Munich Re said. Investment income was 8.4 billion euros
in 2012, it said.  “We believe the outlook from Munich Re is somewhat on the
conservative side,” Thorsten Wenzel, an analyst at  DZ Bank  in
Frankfurt, said in an e-mailed report to investors. “Consensus
estimates might slightly increase.”  Unit Forecasts  Munich Re expects profit at its reinsurance business,
excluding minorities, of 2.3 billion euros to 2.5 billion euros
this year. Profit at Ergo Versicherungsgruppe, a unit selling
primary insurance, will probably be between 350 million euros
and 450 million euros, it said.  The contract of Wolfgang Strassl, a member of the
management board who runs Munich Health and Human Resources,
will not be renewed at the end of this year. Von Bomhard will
take charge of Munich Health, which is the smallest unit of the
company, Munich Re said. For 2013 “a further loss” at Munich
Health cannot be ruled out, it said.  Last year, earnings of insurers and reinsurers who help
shoulder risks in return for a share of the premiums were
supported by lower catastrophe claims and a rally in markets
after steps by European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  to
stem the debt crisis.  Munich Re said it raised its claims estimate for the 2011
floods in  Thailand  by 80 million euros from the 547 million
euros expected in its 2011 annual report. Of man-made losses,
the Costa Concordia cruise ship accident was the most
significant with claim costs of 80 million euros, it said.  Renewable Energy  Natural disasters caused $65 billion in global insured
losses in 2012, down from $119 billion the previous year. Munich
Re said it expects  Hurricane Sandy  to account for $25 billion in
losses, making it the single most expensive natural disaster
last year and costing the company around 800 million euros
before tax.  The company said it will invest more in renewable energy
and new technologies this year after spending 1 billion euros in
2012. It aims to spend 2.5 billion euros in total in the
“medium term” to  help counter lower revenue from bonds and
other products tied to interest rates.  Munich Re’s investment arm MEAG may buy a stake in an
offshore wind farm operated by utilities such as E.ON SE and  RWE
AG (RWE) , Robert Pottmann, who heads MEAG’s renewable-energy unit,
said last month. It will also invest in onshore wind and solar
photovoltaic projects in Europe and  North America  and may buy
stakes in completed geothermal projects in  Germany , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  