-- WBL Rises Above United Engineers’ Revised Bid: Singapore Mover
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-03-13T07:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/united-engineers-raises-wbl-bid-to-seek-new-growth-opportunities.html
Shares of  WBL Corp. (WBL) , a Singapore-
based conglomerate with investments from China property to
luxury car dealerships, rose the most in six weeks today to
trade above an increased bid by  United Engineers Ltd. (UEM)   The stock added as much as 4.8 percent to S$4.34 in
 Singapore , the biggest gain since Jan. 31. United Engineers
raised its offer to S$4.15 a share in cash from S$4 after its
partners exchanged its WBL convertible bonds into shares, the
company said yesterday in a statement to the  Singapore Exchange .  WBL, whose largest shareholder  Straits Trading Co. (STRTR)  had
competed with United Engineers for control before dropping out
earlier this month, is worth S$1.19 billion ($954 million) based
on the new bid. United Engineers’ offer fell short of a S$4.56
to S$5.30 per share value assessed by KPMG Corporate Finance
Pte., a financial adviser to WBL’s independent directors.  “Shareholders still expect UE to raise their bid,” said
Lee Syn Yi, a Singapore-based analyst at CIMB-GK Securities Pte.
“UE is serious about getting control. Maybe the area of S$4.40
could be the threshold for them.”  WBL gained 2.2 percent to S$4.23 as of 2:48 p.m. United
Engineers fell 1.3 percent to S$3.11, while Straits Trading lost
0.3 percent to S$3.91.  Straits Trading, a tin-smelting company, in February
offered 1.05 new shares or a cash payment of S$3.36 for every
WBL share, according to a circular to shareholders. The company
said on March 3 that its offer hadn’t become unconditional and
had lapsed as it didn’t get at least 50 percent of WBL. Straits
Trading holds 44.5 percent of WBL.  Bugatti Dealerships  “As the situation stands currently there appears little
reason for STC to accept,” Straits Trading’s Chairman Chew Gek Khim said in an e-mailed response to a Bloomberg query on
whether the company will accept United Engineers’ offer. “It is
premature for any shareholder of WBL to answer” that query.  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC)  and its partners, which are
working with United Engineers, will lift their stake in WBL to
39.5 percent from 38.3 percent as the debt was converted into
equity, according to yesterday’s statement. United Engineers
will “explore opportunities to enhance value across the
company’s diverse portfolio of businesses,” it said.  WBL’s businesses include real estate projects in five
Chinese cities and Bugatti and Bentley dealerships in Singapore.  China Opportunities  United Engineers said the bid will help expand its property
business and seek out opportunities in China, as well as the
company’s automotive unit as a source of recurring income. The
company’s shareholders approved the takeover bid at a meeting
yesterday.  WBL generates almost half its revenue in  China , where it
develops residential and commercial property and sells Volvo
cars, according to its 2012 annual report. The company also owns
stakes in  Multi-Fineline Electronix Inc. (MFLX)  and  MFS Technology
Ltd. (MFS) , which make circuits for phones and laptops, and businesses
that distribute automobile parts and provide engineering
services.  “UE would need to buy over the stake held by Straits
Trading to consolidate the business and carry out their plans
for WBL,” said CIMB-GK’s Lee. “It might require a fairly high
price for Straits Trading to let go of their stake. It depends
on the price.”  Wearne Brothers Ltd., as WBL was previously known, was
founded in 1906 by Charles and Theodore Wearne and sold nailed-
together Model T Fords in Singapore, introduced the Rolls-Royce
to  Malaysia  and started the first commercial air service between
the two countries in 1937, according to its website. After it
was shut down during World War II, the company entered
industries from double-decker bus services to computer design.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  