-- Uranium Rally Falters on Japanese Nuclear Delays: Energy Markets
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-03-12T23:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/uranium-rally-falters-on-japanese-nuclear-delays-energy-markets.html
Uranium’s rally from a three-year
low is stalling amid signs  Japan , once the world’s third-biggest
nuclear power producer, will keep all but a handful of its
reactors offline this year.  The atomic fuel has slipped 6.8 percent to $42.40 a pound
since the Liberal Democratic Party won Dec. 16 elections,
erasing most of the 12 percent gain in the six weeks before the
vote. While the LDP pledged to review the previous
administration’s zero-nuclear policy, regulators probably won’t
allow any more plants to start in 2013, a survey of power
companies by Kyodo News showed. Uranium will average less than
$48 a pound in the six months ending June, the lowest for this
time of year since 2010, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  A delay in the resumption of nuclear plants would be a blow
for uranium producers from  Australia  to  Namibia , while boosting
natural gas exporters such as Qatar, which helped plug Japan’s
power deficit after the March 2011 meltdown at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The disaster sent uranium
tumbling as countries from  Germany  to  China  said they would
phase out atomic power or slow project approvals. All but two of
Japan’s 50 reactors are still shut and must meet stricter safety
standards before they can restart.  “There is much uncertainty around the entire nuclear
program in Japan,” Jonathan Hinze, a senior vice president at
Roswell, Georgia-based Ux Consulting who forecasts prices won’t
exceed $50 before the end of the year, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “Due to Japanese reactor outages as well
as smaller reductions in demand from Germany and elsewhere,
there continues to be an ample supply of  uranium  for near-term
delivery. We do not expect a rapid price run-up is likely.”  Price Low  Uranium for immediate delivery slid to $40.65 a pound on
Nov. 5, the lowest since March 2010, before rebounding to $45.50
on Dec. 13, according to Ux, which provides research on the
nuclear industry. The price climbed as high as $152 in June
2007. It will average $45 this quarter and $47.50 in the three
months ended June, the median of five analyst estimates this
year by banks including Credit Suisse and Toronto-Dominion Bank
compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Japan  generated  280 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity
from atomic plants in 2010, behind only the U.S. at 807 billion
and  France  at 410 billion, according to the World Nuclear
Association. That dropped to 156 billion kilowatt-hours in 2011.
The nation’s estimated uranium requirement was 4,636 metric tons
in 2012, down from 8,003 tons in 2010, the WNA data show.  The country’s 10 largest power producers generated or
purchased 2.1 percent of their electricity from nuclear plants
in January, down from 27 percent in February 2011.  Gas Purchases  The LDP said in its election campaign that the country
needs nuclear reactors to reduce the cost of importing fuel for
thermal plants. The nation paid 6 trillion yen ($63 billion) for
a record 87.3 million tons of liquefied natural gas in 2012,
customs data show. The fuel cost an average $16.70 per million
British thermal units, or almost six times as much as the $2.83
average price of U.S. gas traded on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange last year.  Japan will restart atomic power plants once their safety is
assured, while the government will still seek to reduce its
nuclear dependence through energy-saving efforts and a shift to
renewable sources, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said in a Feb. 28
speech, two months after the election.  Reactor Restarts  The Nuclear Regulation Authority in January approved safety
standards for reactors idled after the Fukushima disaster, which
caused the evacuation of 160,000 people. Plants must meet the
new rules before they can resume. The regulations, to be
implemented in July, mean restarts are unlikely in 2013, Kyodo
News reported March 4, citing a survey of Japan’s 10 biggest
power companies.  “If true, that bodes very negatively for uranium prices
this year,” said Joel Crane, the vice president of research at
Morgan Stanley in  Melbourne . Prices may average $46.75 a pound
this year, he said.  All Japan’s reactors may be shut before the end of the year
when the only two currently running, at Kansai Electric Power
Co.s Ohi plant, close for scheduled maintenance. The company is
required to idle the No. 3 unit on Sept. 2 and the No. 4 unit on
Sept. 15, Takahiro Senoh, the company’s spokesman, said Jan. 28.  “We don’t intend to delay the approval unnecessarily, but
we don’t know when the first restart will happen,” Gyo Sato, a
spokesman for the NRA, said by phone March 12 in  Tokyo . “We are
still reviewing how we should proceed with the approval process,
so we can’t even comment how long it will take.”  Accepting Consignments  Kansai Electric Power Co., Shikoku Electric Power Co. and
Shikoku Electric Power Co. submitted plans to restart a total of
six reactors this year when they applied for government approval
to increase electricity tariffs for households.  Cameco Corp. (CCO) , the world’s third-largest uranium miner,
expects as many as eight reactors in Japan will come back online
this year, Chief Executive Officer Tim Gitzel said Feb. 11 in a
phone interview from the company’s headquarters in Saskatoon,
 Canada . Utilities are accepting consignments of the radioactive
metal under long-term contracts after previously deferring some
shipments, he said.  About six of Japan’s reactors may restart by the end of
this year in addition to the two that resumed in 2012, with two-
thirds of plants operational within several years, Luc Oursel,
 Areva SA (AREVA) ’s chief executive, said March 4. Paris-based Areva is
the world’s second-biggest supplier of nuclear fuel, WNA data
show.  Brighter Outlook  China , the world’s biggest energy user, is also moving
ahead with a construction program for nuclear plants after
lifting a moratorium on approvals in November. The nation is
building 29 reactors to add to the 16 it already operates and
has 51 planned, according to the WNA. The nation accounts for 34
percent of the plants scheduled globally and may increase its
capacity to 58 gigawatts by 2020 from 13 gigawatts.  “The longer-term picture for uranium prices is much
brighter,”  Energy Resources of Australia Ltd. , the uranium
producer controlled by Rio Tinto Group, said in its 2012 annual
report on March 5. “Demand will continue to increase as China
constructs an estimated 40 to 50 new nuclear power plants this
decade, and new reactor construction continues in South Korea,
the U.S., the United Arab Emirates, France,  Finland ,  Russia ,
 India  and other countries.”  Reputational Blow  Europe ’s nuclear industry must regain the trust of
investors after delays and cost overruns at projects in Finland
and France dealt a blow to its reputation, Yves Brachet,
Westinghouse Electric Co.’s chief executive officer for Europe,
Middle East and  Africa , said March 6 in an interview in Prague.  The cost of Finland’s 1,600-megawatt Olkiluoto-3 reactor,
supplied by Areva and Germany’s  Siemens AG (SIE) , has more than
doubled to an estimated 8 billion euros ($10 billion), while
Electricite de France SA’s new reactor in Flamanville is also
running late and almost three times over budget.  France is considering a law that may reduce dependence on
nuclear power, while Germany has pledged to phase out nine
atomic facilities by 2022. A glut of government-subsidized wind
power in the U.S. is shrinking margins at nuclear plants,
Christopher Crane, the chief executive officer of Chicago-based
Exelon Corp., said in a phone interview this month.  Restoring Japan’s nuclear reactors may take as long as
three years, Nicholas Browne, a Singapore-based gas analyst for
Wood Mackenzie, said an interview on Feb. 27. Even then, the
nation’s nuclear capacity will be less than half what it was
before the Fukushima disaster because the age of some reactors
may render them unsafe to restart, he said.  Stockpile Reduction  Japan Atomic Power Co. sold uranium supplies while Tokyo
Electric is considering the sale of part of its stockpiles,
Kyodo News reported Feb. 20, without saying where it got the
information. Japan Atomic faces a debt repayment deadline in
April with no prospects of restarting its reactors, the news
agency said. Mitsuru Marutani, a Tokyo-based spokesman at Japan
Atomic, declined to disclose details on its uranium supplies.  “The spot market is small and new sources of material will
have a negative impact on price,” Rob Chang, an analyst at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP in Toronto who predicts uranium prices may
average $55 a pound this year, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “We expect anywhere between 5 to 15 reactors will be
placed back in operation with relative ease, with the first few
coming on near the end of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Gordon at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  