-- Turkey’s Cukurova Said Seeking $3 Billion to Repay Fridman
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-03-12T14:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/turkey-s-cukurova-said-seeking-up-to-3-billion-to-repay-fridman.html
Cukurova Holding AS, owned by
Turkish billionaire Mehmet Emin Karamehmet, increased to as much
as $3 billion the funds it’s seeking to repay  Mikhail Fridman ’s
Alfa Group, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The company is talking with lenders including  Standard Bank
Group Ltd. (SBK)  and  Russia ’s  OAO Sberbank (SBER)  on financing, which may
include loans and so-called fiduciary notes, the people said,
asking not to be identified as talks aren’t public. Cukurova is
seeking to repay Alfa and recover a 13.7 percent stake in
mobile-phone operator  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) , which was
seized by Alfa after Cukurova defaulted on a $1.7 billion loan.  Karamehmet is also a founding shareholder in Turkcell, as
the phone company is known. The financing talks come after the
U.K. Privy Council ruled on Jan. 30 that Cukurova should be
given the opportunity to repay its debt to recover the stake and
is set to give a further decision on how much interest should be
paid. The outstanding principal is about $1.35 billion and
Cukurova had previously sought to raise as much as $2 billion,
two people with knowledge of the matter said last month.  Turkcell rose 4.3 percent to 12.05 liras in Istanbul
trading, the biggest gain since August.  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  of  Sweden , the biggest shareholder in
Turkcell with 38 percent, and Alfa’s investment arm, Altimo,
have battled Cukurova over control of Turkcell for almost a
decade.  $330 Million  Cukurova paid  Alfa group  $330 million two weeks ago as part
of the plan to repay the debt, one of the people said. The
company may use any funds left over after repaying the Alfa debt
to acquire a 46 percent stake in Digiturk, a digital TV
platform, from its partner Providence Equity Partners Inc., a
Rhode Island-based buyout firm, one of the people said.  Erik Larsen, a spokesman for  Standard Bank , didn’t reply to
phone calls. Alexander Baziyan, a Sberbank spokesman, didn’t
answer e-mailed questions from Bloomberg seeking comment.
Cukurova officials, who don’t want to be identified because of
company policy, declined to comment.  Cukurova may pledge as collateral for loans its  holdings  in
oil explorer and producer  Genel Energy Plc (GENL) , co-owned by former
 BP Plc (BP/)  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , two people with
knowledge of the matter said last month. It may also consider
putting up its stakes in Swiss lender Banque de Commerce & de
Placements and steel pipemaker Noksel Celik Boru AS, they said.  Directors Appointed  Turkey’s capital markets regulator yesterday appointed
three independent members to Turkcell’s board of directors to
force the company to comply with corporate governance
legislation, it said in a statement on its website. TeliaSonera
and Cukurova said in separate statements that they welcomed the
move and that it may pave the way for an annual meeting of
shareholders to approve the distribution of unpaid dividends
from 2010 and 2011 profits.  “You should expect the board to call an extraordinary
general assembly in the following days as soon as the Privy
Council decision is out and Cukurova recovers its stake after
paying the determined amount to Alfa,” said Alper Ozdemir, an
analyst at Istanbul-based Oyak Yatirim, in an e-mailed note.  Cukurova signed a $3.3 billion agreement with Alfa in 2005
to finance paying government debts resulting from the collapse
of its Pamukbank business. Alfa bought 13.2 percent of Turkcell
for $1.6 billion from Cukurova and lent the Istanbul-based
company another $1.7 billion, taking what was effectively
another 13.7 percent of Turkcell as collateral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  