-- USDA Halts Milk, Rice, Cattle Reports as Government Cuts Budget
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-03-12T20:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/usda-halts-milk-rice-cattle-reports-as-government-cuts-budget.html
The  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said it will halt some government reports including milk
 production , rice supply and cattle herds because of federal
spending cuts known as sequestration.  Reports will no longer be issued on catfish and trout,
potato stockpiles, non-citrus fruits, nuts and vegetables, hops
stockpiles, mink, Austrian peas and lentils, the USDA’s  National
Agricultural Statistics Service  said today in an e-mailed
statement. Also eliminated will be seasonal reports on rice
stockpiles in June,  cattle  in July and the monthly tally of
domestic milk supply and demand, the agency said.  Eliminating milk reports that have been published monthly
since 1964 will make it more difficult for producers and
processors to get data on changes in output or consumption that
the industry uses to make business decisions, said  Bill Brooks ,
a dairy economist INTL FCStone Inc. in  Kansas City ,  Missouri .
Analysts will have a more difficult time estimating prices
without the information, he said.  “The monthly milk-production report is a key piece of
information that the industry looks at to analyze overall milk
supply,” Brooks said in a telephone interview.  Mike Miller, who’s produced the USDA monthly milk
production  reports  for the past five years, said he’s not yet
heard whether the cuts will be permanent. The information
supplied by industry sources probably won’t be as comprehensive
or as timely as the government data, he said by telephone.  “You could piece the information together, but you don’t
have one place to go to say this is the number,” Miller said.  Miller said he is still employed by the USDA and has other
duties, including the government  census  of agriculture that’s
released every five years and is currently being compiled. The
milk report that’s set to be released March 19 may be the last
one published, he said.  “No one I talk to knows” what’s going to happen after the
end of the fiscal year on Oct. 1, Miller said. “I’m certainly
disappointed, and I hate to see it go away. Hopefully it will be
brought back because it’s an important report.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net , or
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  