-- Venezuela’s Last Anti-Chavez TV Station Globovision Being Sold
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-03-12T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/venezuela-s-last-anti-chavez-tv-station-globovision-being-sold.html
Venezuela’s Globovision, the last
major television broadcaster openly critical of the government,
may be sold after a costly battle with former President Hugo Chavez over its coverage of prison riots.  News anchor Leopoldo Castillo said yesterday that Juan
Domingo Cordero, majority shareholder of Caracas-based insurance
company Seguros La Vitalicia, is in negotiations with
Globovision’s owners to purchase the channel. The sale will
probably go ahead after elections next month to elect a new
president following Chavez’s death March 5, Castillo said.  “Juan Domingo Cordero is involved in negotiations to buy
Globovision,” Castillo said in televised remarks yesterday.
“There is a willingness to sell.”  Chavez in 2007 shut down RCTV by revoking its broadcast
license after he said the channel supported an attempted coup
against him in 2002. Two other channels, Venevision and Televen,
toned down their criticism of the government to remain on air.  Globovision clashed frequently with Chavez’s government.
The station’s owners, Guillermo Zuloaga and Nelson Mezerhane in
2010 sought asylum in the U.S. after saying they would be
subject to discrimination if they returned. Zuloaga was charged
by authorities with hoarding vehicles at one of his homes in
Caracas.  Globovision in 2011 was fined $2.2 million for its coverage
of prison riots. The channel exaggerated the riots by only
broadcasting the opinions of mothers and wives outside the
prison who feared their relatives were being massacred by the
National Guard, the telecommunications regulator said.
Globovision denied the charges.  Castillo said the channel will continue with its editorial
line until after the elections.  “What will Globovision do during the elections?” he said.
“We will cover the elections, of course.”  Chavez’s chosen heir, acting President Nicolas Maduro, will
face opposition leader Henrique Capriles Radonski in elections
scheduled for April 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  