-- Vevo Starts 24-Hour Ad-Supported Music Television Network
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-03-12T16:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/vevo-starts-24-hour-ad-supported-music-television-network.html
Vevo LLC, a provider of music
videos on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s  YouTube , started a 24-hour music network
that begins online and will expand to pay-TV later this year,
seeking subscriber fees like those paid to  MTV  and VH1.  The broadcast-style network became available today for U.S.
and Canadian viewers through the New York-based company’s
website, mobile applications and video-game consoles, Chief
Executive Officer Rio Caraeff said in an interview.  The goal is to increase advertising sales and create a
potential new source of revenue from pay-TV subscriber fees.
Vevo TV will schedule blocks of high-definition music videos,
original programs and concerts, and eventually hire on-air
hosts, Caraeff said. The company, controlled by  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s
Universal Music and  Sony Corp. (6758) , is talking with pay-TV services
to carry the channel before year-end, he said.  “There is still a time and place when you just want to
have something programmed,” Caraeff said. “You don’t want to
lean forward every three minutes to pick another video, you just
want it to play.”  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s MTV collects 41 cents a month per subscriber
from pay-TV systems, according to estimates from SNL Kagan. The
network is available in about 98 million U.S. pay-TV homes.  VH1, also owned by New York-based Viacom, collects 19 cents
a month, while  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) ’s Fuse receives 6
cents, according to Kagan. VH1 has 97 million subscribers, while
Fuse has 56 million subscribers, according to the companies’
regulatory filings.  YouTube Talks  The TV initiative comes as Vevo seeks to raise money from
investors, including Guggenheim Partners LLC, people with
knowledge of the process said last month. Separately, YouTube is
close to investing $50 million in the company, a transaction
valuing Vevo at about $650 million, people with knowledge of the
talks said last month.  A new distribution deal with YouTube is “nearing
completion” Caraeff said, declining to provide specific terms.
Vevo TV isn’t included in the YouTube agreement, he said.  “The channel will be in all the places you would expect
but it won’t be on YouTube,” Caraeff said. “We are trying to
differentiate our brand and service from YouTube. We’re using
YouTube as marketing for the channel, not distribution.”  Vevo TV’s initial sponsors are State Farm Life Insurance
Co.,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and film studios. The channel will show a
commercial for every three to four videos, Caraeff said. Ad
rates on Vevo TV are equal to the on-demand service, he said.  Tailored Ads  Commercials shown on Vevo TV can be tailored to viewers, a
process called dynamic ad insertion, Caraeff said. That means
during commercial breaks viewers will be shown ads based on
their interests, even on pay-TV systems.  “We have the ability to personalize ads for users based on
their registration data,” he said.  The cost of starting the network was minimal, Caraeff said,
declining to provide a figure. The company has hired about six
employees.  “It’s substantially less than would be required to start a
traditional music channel,” Caraeff said. “This will be a true
24-hour channel, not a continuous loop.”  Also today, Vevo re-branded the company, including a new
logo and other graphics, Caraeff said.  “It’s warmer, more soulful, more true to music,” he said.
“That is where we are taking our brand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  