-- Von Kleist, Last Survivor From Plot to Kill Hitler, Dies at 90
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2013-03-12T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/von-kleist-last-survivor-from-plot-to-kill-hitler-dies-at-90.html
Ewald-Heinrich von Kleist, the last
surviving member of the German resistance group that tried
unsuccessfully to kill  Adolf Hitler , has died. He was 90.  He died March 8 at his home in Munich, the  Associated Press 
reported, citing his wife, Gundula von Kleist.  As a 21-year-old lieutenant, von Kleist accepted Colonel
 Claus von Stauffenberg’s  personal request to make an attempt on
Hitler’s life. The young officer planned to conceal two hand
grenades under his coat and to detonate them in the Fuehrer’s
presence at a demonstration of military uniforms in February
1944. The suicide mission never took place because Hitler was
unable to attend on several occasions. It was one of at least 40
known attempts to kill Hitler.  Von Kleist then joined  his father  -- who had endorsed his
son’s assassination plan -- in the “Operation Valkyrie” plot
led by von Stauffenberg and Major General  Henning von Tresckow .
On July 20, 1944, the group of senior officers and supporters,
disillusioned by the mass killings of Jews and others in Eastern
Europe, staged a synchronized coup with the backing of a reserve
army. Von Stauffenberg failed to kill Hitler with a bomb that
exploded at the Wolf’s Lair headquarters in East Prussia, and
the conspirators were quickly rounded up by the Gestapo.  About 600 people were arrested and about 150 were executed
for their roles in the plot, says Johannes Tuchel, head of the
German Resistance Memorial Center in Berlin. Von Stauffenberg
and von Kleist’s father were among those killed.  Eastern Front  At the reserve army headquarters in Berlin, where von
Stauffenberg was chief of staff to General  Friedrich Fromm , von
Kleist played a supporting role during the plot. A preliminary
investigation into his involvement was terminated in December
1944. He was sent to a concentration camp and then to the
eastern front.  “I had something that is no longer common today but played
a big role back then: a strong attachment to my people and my
country,” von Kleist said in an  interview  with the weekly
newspaper Junge Freiheit in May 2001. “I found it appalling
that such crimes were committed in the name of  Germany .”  Von Kleist was born on July 10, 1922, on his family estate
in Schmenzin, a town in Pomerania that is now part of  Poland  and
called  Smecino . His ancestors had served in Prussian military
and administrative positions for centuries.  His father, a member of the Confessing Church, resigned
from public duties when Hitler took power in 1933, and he
managed the family manor. In August 1938, the elder von Kleist
met with  Winston Churchill , a Conservative Party parliamentarian
at the time, in  London  to gauge his support for an army revolt
against the Nazi regime and to steer the U.K. away from a policy
of appeasement.  Liberal Schooling  Ewald-Heinrich von Kleist was sent to high school at the
Gymnasium  Birklehof , near Freiburg in southwest Germany, where
he was exposed to liberal ideas with French and American
influences. After his schooling, he returned to Pomerania to
pursue an apprenticeship in agriculture. He joined the German
army at age 18 and volunteered for Infantry Regiment 9, which
was known to have many officers and troops with anti-Nazi
sympathies.  After the war, he started his own publishing business and
founded the Wehrkundetagung, later known as the  Munich Security
Conference , in 1962. He stepped down in 1998 as chairman of the
conference, a foreign-policy forum for government ministers,
academics, high-ranking army officers and media.  The Munich Security Conference was the scene of German
Foreign Minister  Joschka Fischer ’s vocal  opposition  to U.S.
Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld ’s case for war in  Iraq  at the
meeting in 2003. It highlighted a cooling of relations between
the two countries during President  George W. Bush ’s tenure.  Von Kleist and his wife, Gundula, had a son, Christian, and
a daughter, Vera.  “The attempt to save millions of lives was worth it,” von
Kleist said in a  remembrance speech  for von Stauffenberg’s 100th
birthday in November 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Henry in  Frankfurt  at 
 dhenry2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  