-- Weapons Programs at Great Risk, Pentagon Analyst Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-12T18:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/weapons-programs-at-great-risk-pentagon-analyst-says.html
Weapons programs such as  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s  F-35 jet face “terrible” reductions of
Pentagon funding in coming years under automatic spending cuts,
according to the military’s independent cost analyst.  “We need to modernize the force,” from new fighter
aircraft to submarines, and “we are not going to be able to
stay on that path” under the process called sequestration,
which will cut about $50 billion a year from planned  defense
spending , Christine Fox, director of the Pentagon’s primary cost
analysis group, said in an interview.  “We’d have to do terrible things to modernization” to
wring out immediate savings because reductions in Army
personnel, efficiencies and military compensation will take time
to pay off, she said.  Fox heads an independent office created by Congress in 2009
as part of the Weapon Systems Acquisition Reform Act. Her staff
conducts detailed reviews of program costs and long-term
budgets. They also advise leaders when the budgets appear
unrealistic.  She said she wants to counter a growing impression that the
Pentagon can absorb $500 billion in cuts over a decade because
it grew fat on spending in the war years that followed the
terrorist attacks of 2001.  ‘Draconian Changes’  “The narrative is building a momentum that to me is adding
up to ‘not too bad, maybe we should do this,’” Fox said.  Fox said the reductions can’t be accomplished solely by
reducing military compensation, closing more bases, finding
efficiencies, overhauling acquisition processes and making more
or faster cuts to Army troop levels beyond the decrease to
490,000 personnel already planned by 2017.  Sequestration “will force us to make very draconian
changes to force structure and modernization,” Fox said.
“We’ll have to do that because you can’t get all of the savings
out of the categories people are talking about,” she said.  Fox spoke today in an interview before a scheduled
presentation at a Washington conference sponsored by defense
consultant James McAleese and Credit Suisse Group AG.  Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter  said at the
conference that if sequestration continues beyond this year,
“of course we’ll have to terminate” weapons programs.  “Nobody wants to do that, but what I don’t want to do is
-- if we are driven to lower budget levels -- just react by
stringing things out,” he said. “That’s the worst thing for
the taxpayer and the warfighter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  