-- Weidmann Says ECB to Keep Accommodative Stance as Long as Needed
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-03-12T13:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/weidmann-says-ecb-to-keep-accommodative-stance-as-long-as-needed.html
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
comments on the  exchange rate , the  European Central Bank ’s
monetary policy and lending to small and medium-sized companies.  He made the remarks in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in  Frankfurt  today after the Bundesbank published its
2012 annual report.  On the exchange rate:  “I wouldn’t consider the euro exchange rate a threat to
the economy. I think what we do is that we take into
consideration the exchange-rate movements in our policy
assessment and the assessment of the monetary policy stance, and
of course they will also influence the future inflation rates
and in that sense they enter our policy deliberations.”  “If you take a more laid-back view on what we really see
currently in the markets you would agree with me that what we
currently see is not completely out of line with fundamentals
and corresponds roughly to the historical average that we have
seen.”  On the ECB’s accommodative monetary-policy stance:  “We will continue that stance for as long as necessary.
That’s a very obvious statement. At the same time, we have to
see that all over the world monetary policy is quite
expansionary and that of course could pose risks for financial
stability in some of the markets.”  “We see effects of the low interest environment on some of
the markets. In  Germany , the real-estate market is one of them.
I wouldn’t consider what is happening there to be a price bubble
but of course we see very strong price increases that we have to
judge against the background of a very muted development in the
past, and against the fact that the credit development is not as
dynamic as a price bubble would suggest.”  On market fragmentation:  “Fragmentation is certainly an issue that we’re looking
at, and it’s certainly an issue that we’re looking into against
the background of monetary policy transmission. My point is to
say that if you go too much into details and try to fine-tune
sectoral developments, this is certainly not something that the
central banks should do.”  On lending to small- and medium-sized companies:  “The governments set up institutions to deal with credit
provisioning to small- and medium-sized enterprises, so I think
they should apply the instruments they have. This shouldn’t
prevent us from making a thorough analysis of the situation. I
think you also need to differentiate between small corporations
and larger corporations, there are quite some differences.”  “The different cyclical positions play a role, so I say
that to make a point, there are a lot of factors that monetary
policy cannot and should not influence, but there are other
policies that can react to it, like KfW and similar banks in
 Europe  that are specifically designed to target small- and
medium-sized enterprises. I don’t think it’s a good idea for
monetary policy to target specific sectors of the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  