-- White on Hill, China Commodity Trades, CLOs: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-03-12T12:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/white-on-hill-china-commodity-trades-clos-compliance.html
Mary Jo White, U.S. President
 Barack Obama ’s choice to run the Securities and Exchange
Commission, may be compelled to provide more information about
her ties to large banks as senators press her today about how
she would operate as  Wall Street ’s regulator.  Some Democrats on the Senate Banking Committee who will
question White at a nomination hearing say their concerns
probably don’t threaten her confirmation. White, 65, has said
she would retire from New York-based Debevoise & Plimpton LLP,
where she has served as a lawyer defending Wall Street, if she’s
confirmed by the Senate.  White, who was the Manhattan-based U.S Attorney from 1993
to 2002, has had numerous meetings with senators in recent weeks
as she faces skepticism about her ties to Wall Street. In her
prepared Senate testimony, released yesterday, White doesn’t
address the issue. She previously pledged to abstain for one
year from any SEC matter that involves Debevoise or its clients.  Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, said last week he
wasn’t ready to support White for the post. He expressed
concerns about conflicts of interest to a  law firm  “that have
not been cut.”  White has said Debevoise would pay her a lump-sum
retirement payment within 60 days of her starting at the SEC.
The payment would replace her monthly retirement payments for
four years. She is eligible for lifetime monthly payments from
Debevoise of about $42,500, according to her financial
disclosure statement.  Other Democrats, including Senator  Mark Warner  of Virginia,
said in interviews that they are inclined to support White.  Her testimony dwells on market regulation, a topic that
hasn’t been a large part of her career as a litigator. She
singled out high-frequency and algorithmic trading as strategies
that demand further evaluation from the SEC.  “There must be a sense of urgency to addressing these
issues to understand their impact on investors and the quality
of our markets so that the appropriate regulatory responses can
be made,” White wrote.  White said her first priority would be completing rules
required by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 and last year’s Jumpstart
Our Business Startups Act. The SEC should consistently consider
the economic costs and benefits of new rules “from the
outset,” she wrote.  White said that many other pending regulations await her at
the SEC, including a rule to place new restrictions on money-
market mutual funds and one that would set a new standard for
brokers’ conduct with customers. She also singled out high-
frequency and algorithmic trading as strategies that demand
further evaluation from the SEC.  White has spent much of her 38-year legal career at
Debevoise, where she earned $2.4 million last year and
represented banks. She could be pressed to explain how she’d
oversee the SEC’s enforcement program, said Mark Calabria,
director of financial regulation studies at the Cato Institute
and a former Republican staff member of the Banking Committee.  “Investors and all market participants need to know that
the playing field of our markets is level and that all
wrongdoers -- individual and institutions, of whatever position
or size -- will be aggressively and successfully pursued by the
SEC,” White wrote in her testimony.  Senate Republicans haven’t publicly expressed reservations
about White’s nomination. Her history as an attorney for banks
could make her more appealing to some Republican senators
because it suggests she understands how regulations affect
companies, according to Richard C. Breeden, a Republican and
former SEC chairman from 1989 to 1993.  Compliance Policy  Cordray Nomination at Stalemate as Senators Refuse to Negotiate  A U.S. Senate hearing today on Richard Cordray’s second
nomination to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will
probably be less about his leadership than Republican distaste
for the bureau itself.  Cordray faces a pledge by 43 Republican senators -- enough
to prevent a floor vote -- to block his confirmation unless
Democrats agree to structural changes to the bureau, created by
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act. Their position hardened after a federal
court ruling raised questions about the validity of President
Barack Obama’s 2012 recess appointment of Cordray to direct the
bureau after Republicans blocked his first nomination.  The parties are refusing to negotiate as they await further
court rulings.  The structural changes demanded by Republicans include
putting the bureau under the control of a bipartisan commission
and subjecting its budget to the congressional appropriations
process. The agency’s budget is now linked to the  Federal
Reserve .  Cordray, 53, made no mention of the court challenge or
Republican’s structural change demands in testimony prepared for
today’s hearing.  Cordray can be confirmed by a majority vote, but to call
the vote on the Senate floor, Democrats need 60 members’
support. With 55 members in the Senate’s Democratic caucus, five
Republicans would have to break ranks to allow a vote.  For more, click here.  SHFE Calls for Opening Commodities Futures to Overseas Traders  China should accelerate opening commodities futures to
overseas investors and detail regulations allowing domestic
firms to trade raw materials contracts on bourses abroad,
Shanghai Futures Exchange Chairman Yang Maijun said in proposals
to the National People’s Congress.  Government agencies including foreign exchange regulators
and the tax bureau should use preparations already under way for
crude oil futures trading to prepare similar policies allowing
foreign investors to trade base metals, precious metals and
natural rubber futures, Yang said, according to an e-mail from
the exchange yesterday.  China introduced a Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor
program in 2002, allocating quotas to non-Chinese funds that
were initially restricted to trading stocks and bonds listed on
exchanges. In July 2012, China allowed entry into the interbank
market, which hosts 99 percent of the nation’s debt.  The SHFE is facing rising competition from the Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.  Chinese companies are disadvantaged because they don’t have
legitimate channels to access overseas commodities futures
markets to hedge, yesterday’s statement cited Yang as saying.  Too-Big-to-Fail Subsidy Claim Data Flaws Faulted by Bank Groups  Lobby groups for the largest U.S. banks pushed back against
claims that they remain too big to fail, rebutting assertions by
lawmakers and regulators that they enjoy a “taxpayer subsidy”
because of their size.  The Dodd-Frank Act, passed by Congress in response to the
2008 credit crisis, greatly diminished whatever advantage the
biggest lenders held over smaller rivals, five industry groups
wrote yesterday in a brief on the issue. Senator  Elizabeth
Warren , a Massachusetts Democrat, used outdated information when
she raised the matter at a hearing last month, the groups said.  “There is substantial evidence that the market recognizes
the impact Dodd-Frank has had on investor expectations,” the
Clearing House, Financial Services Forum, Financial Services
Roundtable, Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association and American Bankers Association said in their
brief. “Given the sizable costs associated with new
regulations, together with the new orderly liquidation
framework, any purported TBTF-related funding advantage has
clearly been reduced or even eliminated.”  Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, is planning to
reintroduce legislation that would cap bank size. Brown and
Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican, are also preparing
a bill that would increase  capital requirements  above the
international Basel III standards.  For more, click here.  FDIC Rule May Limit CLO Spread Narrowing, Morgan Stanley Says  A new rule governing high-risk loans may change how banks
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. invest in
collateralized loan obligations as they assess the cost of
holding assets calculated in their ability to withstand stress,
according to  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   The regulation requires CLOs, which buy and package
speculative-grade credit into securities of varying risk and
return, to be treated as “higher-risk” assets, Morgan Stanley
said yesterday in a report.  The designation may also include the least-risky portion of
CLOs, rated AAA, under the FDIC regulation set to take effect on
April 1 for U.S. banks with $10 billion of assets or more, the
New York-based lender said. The rule may limit the narrowing of
spreads in the top-rated portion of CLOs as banks consider
investing in lower-rated slices of the loan funds, according to
the note.  A total $17.8 billion of new CLOs have been raised this
year, according to Morgan Stanley.  Danish Conservatives Rule Out More Regulation for Biggest Banks  Denmark’s Conservative Party will oppose adding to solvency
and capital requirements for the country’s biggest lenders,
 Brian Mikkelsen , the party’s former business minister, said
March 11 in a phone interview.  He said the party won’t support regulation exceeding
European capital requirements, as “it will only serve to cut
growth” in the economy.  The party supported all Danish banking regulation acts
since the first Danish bank rescue bill in 2008.  Separately, writedowns at Danish banks are expected to
decline in 2013 if the economy grows as projected, and to remain
“substantial,” Berlingske reported, citing Kristian Vie
Madsen, FSA deputy director.  China’s Wenzhou Plans 48% Private Lending Rate Cap, News Reports  Wenzhou, the eastern Chinese city hit hardest by the
collapse of private lending last year, is planning a 48 percent
limit on annual financing charges for private loans, according
to the Shanghai Securities News.  Loans with maturities of more than one month will be
considered usury if total annual charges, including interest and
fees, exceed 48 percent, the newspaper  reported  yesterday,
citing Li Youxing, a law professor from Zhejiang University who
helped draft the rules. The city would also ban officials from
government and financial institutions from participating in for-
profit private financing, Li said, according to the newspaper.  In Wenzhou, an export hub where almost 90 percent of
families have taken part in underground lending, more than 100
people have fled, committed suicide or declared bankruptcy from
August 2011 through last May, and at least 800 lending brokers
went bankrupt, according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  Wenzhou’s draft rules for private lending still need the
approval of the local legislature of Zhejiang province,
according to the Shanghai Securities News.  Two phone calls to the Wenzhou government seeking comment
went unanswered yesterday.  Compliance Action  U.S. Freezes Assets of North Korea’s Top Foreign Exchange Bank  The U.S. Treasury Department froze the U.S. assets of North
Korea’s Foreign Trade Bank, saying it facilitates transactions
linked to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.  The company, which is North Korea’s primary foreign
exchange bank, “facilitated millions of dollars in
transactions” which benefited the country’s premier arms dealer
Korea Mining Development Corp., the Treasury Department said
yesterday in a statement.  Illinois Agrees to Settle SEC Charges Over Pension Disclosures  Illinois agreed to settle with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission over charges it misled investors about a
growing shortfall in its employee pension funds as it sold $2.2
billion in bonds to investors.  From 2005 to 2009, Illinois failed to disclose how much it
was underfunding its pension plans, the SEC said yesterday in an
administrative action. The state didn’t adequately disclose cuts
in its annual contributions to the fund, the agency said.  The SEC has been seeking to crack down on faulty disclosure
by state and local governments that borrow in the $3.7 trillion
municipal-bond market. It settled a similar case with  New Jersey 
in 2010, the first time the regulator targeted a state.  The state neither admitted nor denied findings in the SEC’s
order and cooperated with the agency, according to a statement
from Governor  Pat Quinn ’s Office of Management and Budget.  Oppenheimer Reaches $2.9 Million SEC Accord on Fund Holdings  Oppenheimer & Co. (OPY)  agreed to pay about $2.9 million to
settle claims by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
that it misled investors in a private-equity fund.  The portfolio manager of the Oppenheimer fund valued its
largest investment at a “significant markup” to an estimated
value, the SEC said in a statement yesterday. The company also
reached a settlement with Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha
Coakley  for about $132,000.  Two Massachusetts pension plans sued Oppenheimer over
investments in the fund. That lawsuit was dismissed by a federal
judge in Boston.  Oppenheimer will pay $2.3 million to investors, including
about $350,000 total to the pension funds that sued, according
to the SEC and Coakley’s office.  A spokesman for New York-based Oppenheimer didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment on the
settlement.  Ranieri Partners Settles SEC Case Over Unregistered Broker  Ranieri Partners, the private-equity firm founded by
mortgage-bond pioneer Lewis S. Ranieri, will pay $375,000 to
settle U.S. regulatory claims it improperly solicited more than
$500 million from investors.  William Stephens was paid fees by Ranieri for soliciting
investors even though he wasn’t registered as a broker, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a statement
yesterday. Stephens agreed to be barred from the securities
industry and Donald Phillips, a former senior managing director
who oversaw his work for Ranieri, will pay $75,000.  Stephens, Phillips and the firm settled the claims without
admitting or denying the allegations. Phone calls to attorneys
for Ranieri Partners and Phillips weren’t immediately returned.
A call to an Illinois number listed for Stephens wasn’t
answered.  Phillips was also suspended from acting in a supervisory
capacity at an advisory firm or brokerage for nine months,
according to the order.  Courts  Three Men Charged by U.K. With Running $60 Million Ponzi Fraud  Three men were charged with conspiracy to defraud investors
through a “Ponzi-style” scheme that took in about 40 million
pounds ($59.6 million), the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office said.  Jolan Saunders, 36, Michael Strubel, 51, and Spencer
Steinberg, 43, appeared at City of London Magistrates Court
yesterday.  The charges relate to alleged fraud at Saunders Electrical
Wholesalers Ltd., which told investors it had contracts to
supply hotel chains and the athletes’ village for the London
Olympic Games, the SFO said. Saunders was also charged with
acting as a company director while disqualified.  Adrian Ring, a lawyer for Saunders, had no immediate
comment when reached by telephone.  Ex-Futures Trader Guilty of Making $1 Million on Inside Tips  A self-employed London trader was sentenced to four years
in prison after being convicted of making 692,644 pounds ($1
million) spread-betting with inside tips he received about
forthcoming mergers.  Richard Joseph was found guilty on all counts by a jury in
London yesterday and sentenced to four years in prison, said
 Chris Hamilton , a spokesman for the Financial Services
Authority. Joseph was accused of trading on information he
received from Ersin Mustafa, who worked in the print room at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Cazenove unit.  Joseph made payments of more than 268,000 pounds to
Mustafa, who also passed on tips from his brother, Ali, who
worked in the print room at  UBS AG (UBSN) , prosecutors said.  Joseph’s case was related to the FSA’s Operation Saturn,
which led to the arrests of eight men at the height of the
financial crisis in 2008 as the regulator was under fire for
failing to do enough to combat market abuse. Six people,
including Ali Mustafa, were found guilty at a separate trial
last year. Ersin Mustafa fled the U.K. in December 2009 and the
regulator believes he is in Northern Cyprus.  Joseph, who worked for himself since the summer of 2000,
testified during the trial that he was self-taught.  He stopped
trading in 2007, by which time he had 3.5 million pounds in the
bank, he said.  For more, click here.  Interviews  Exchange Mergers May Concentrate Risk, Australia’s Medcraft Says  Mergers between exchange companies around the world may
increase risks for investors as fewer companies handle
derivatives trading and clearing, said the head of Australia’s
securities regulator.  “It’s a logical conclusion, that if everything’s going
through two clearinghouses there’s a concentration of risk,”
Greg Medcraft, 56, chairman of the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission, said in an interview yesterday. “You
have to be careful about the unintended consequences of
innovation.”  Global regulators are requiring more transactions to be
processed through clearinghouses after the U.S. financial crisis
triggered a $182 billion bailout of  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  when the insurer couldn’t make good on its trades.
Exchanges have been the subject of $50 billion in attempted
deals in the past three years.  Medcraft did not specifically identify any mergers.  Clearing in most Asia-Pacific countries with the exception
of Japan is conducted by the dominant exchange operator. Hong
Kong and Singapore are in the process of drafting rules for the
clearing of over-the-counter derivatives.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Putin Aide Said to Be First Woman on Central Bank Shortlist  Elvira Nabiullina, a Kremlin aide and former economy
minister, is being considered by President  Vladimir Putin  to
replace Russian central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, according
to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Nabiullina, 49, joins a short list, the people said, asking
not to be identified because the names haven’t been made public.
Putin by law must name a candidate to replace Ignatiev, 65,
three months before the central bank head’s third and final term
ends June 24.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 