-- Wisconsin Court Won’t Stay Public Worker Union Law Ruling
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-12T22:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/wisconsin-court-won-t-stay-public-worker-union-law-ruling.html
Wisconsin  Governor Scott Walker
lost a bid for a state appeals court order staying enforcement
of a court decision declaring invalid laws curbing the
collective bargaining rights of public employees.  A three-judge panel of Wisconsin’s intermediate-level Court
of Appeals today rejected the governor’s request to delay
enforcement of the decision last year by Judge Juan B. Colas in
Madison.  Colas, in a September ruling, said the measures requiring
annual recertification votes for union membership and making the
payment of union dues voluntary unduly burdened the free
association and free speech rights of union members. He declared
them “void and without effect.”  A month later, Colas denied the state’s request for an
order staying his decision while it was challenged on appeal.  “We conclude that the circuit court acted within its
discretion in denying the stay,” the appeals court judges said
in an 18-page ruling.  The legislation, signed into law by Walker in March 2011,
exempted some types of public safety workers. It touched off
protests outside the state’s capitol and sparked a drive to
recall the first-term Republican elected in 2010.  Walker defeated Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, a Democrat, in
the recall election last June.  ‘Middle-Ground Case’  The state argued it was almost certain to win its appeal,
so an order blocking the lower-court ruling was warranted. The
appeals court rejected that assertion.  “We are not persuaded that this is a near-certain-to-win
situation,” the three-judge panel said. That level of certainty
would have allowed Colas to accept a lesser showing of
irreparable harm resulting from his decision, the panel said.  “We conclude, instead, that this is a middle-ground
case,” the judges said.  They also said they weren’t swayed by the state’s claim
that confusion over whether Colas’s trial court-level ruling was
applicable statewide would trigger additional litigation.  “It seems that ongoing litigation is inevitable,” until
Wisconsin’s Supreme Court either rules or declines to take up
the dispute, the appeals court said.  ‘Next Level’  Dana Brueck, a spokeswoman for state Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen, said the administration would consider the appeals
court’s reasoning “when deciding whether to continue seeking a
stay at the next level.”  “We asked the court of appeals to stay the district court
order and are disappointed that it did not do so,” Brueck said
in an e-mailed statement. “On the other hand, the court of
appeals expressly recognized that our position has a very high
chance of success on appeal and rejected out of hand any
suggestion that the circuit court decision has the same
precedential, statewide effect as a published appellate
decision.”  In January, the U.S. Court of Appeals in  Chicago  reversed a
Madison federal judge’s ruling last year that deemed some parts
of the legislation known as Act 10 unconstitutional.  The case is Madison Teachers Inc. v. Walker, 2012AP2067, in
Wisconsin Court of Appeals, District IV (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  