-- Korean Won Near Four-Month Low on North Korea Threat; Bonds Gain
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-03-12T07:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/won-trades-near-one-month-low-on-north-korea-concern-bonds-gain.html
The won closed within 0.7 percent
of a four-month low in  Seoul  after North Korean leader Kim Jong
Un urged the military to boost readiness against the U.S.,
heightening tensions. Government bonds rose.  On a visit to a long-range artillery unit on the frontline,
Kim said he’s confident the North’s armed forces could set a
“sea of fire” on a South Korean island, the communist nation’s
Korean Central News Agency reported. The won weakened as
overseas investors sold more Korean stocks than they bought
after the North threatened a preemptive nuclear strike and South
Korea and the U.S. began annual war games yesterday.  “Concerns about North Korea’s threats are keeping the
currency weak, while foreign funds are selling more South Korean
stocks,” said Hong Seok Chan, an analyst at Daishin Economic
Research Institute in Seoul. “Some investors, including
exporters, are looking to sell dollars around the 1,100 level.”  The won closed at 1,095.26 per dollar in Seoul, little
changed from 1,095 yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency yesterday touched 1,102.65, the
strongest level since October. One-month implied volatility for
the won, a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate used
to price options, dropped nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, to 7.76 percent.  Tensions on the Korean peninsula are the highest since at
least 2010, when 50 South Koreans were killed in attacks by the
North. The totalitarian state has increased its rhetoric since
the United Nations Security Council tightened sanctions to
punish North  Korea  for a nuclear weapons test in February. The
North’s threats of preemptive nuclear strikes are
“hyperbolic,” U.S. National Security Adviser Thomas Donilon
said yesterday at the Asia Society in New York.  Borrowing Costs  Global investors cut their holdings of shares included in
the Kospi Index by some 375 billion won ($342 million) in the
past four trading days, exchange data show.  Bonds gained as analysts predict the central bank will
leave interest rates unchanged this week. The yield on the 2.75
percent bonds due September 2017 fell three basis points to 2.76
percent, according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  The Bank of Korea is likely to leave its policy interest
rate unchanged at 2.75 percent on March 14 and for the rest of
this year, Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura
International Ltd. wrote in a research note today. Twelve out of
16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg predicted the central bank
will keep the benchmark rate steady at a March 14 meeting. Four
forecast a 25 basis point cut. The bank last lowered borrowing
costs in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  