-- WTI Oil Trades Near Two-Week High as Crude Supplies Fall
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-03-13T12:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/wti-oil-trades-near-two-week-high-as-u-s-crude-supplies-decline.html
West Texas Intermediate traded near
the highest level in two weeks after an industry report showed
U.S. crude stockpiles fell for the first time since February.
The IEA trimmed its 2013 global oil demand forecast.  Futures advanced a fifth day, the longest run of gains
since December. Crude inventories shrank by 1.38 million barrels
last week, the  American Petroleum Institute  said. An Energy
Department report today may show supplies rose by 2.3 million,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. The  International Energy
Agency  curbed demand estimates for this year by 60,000 barrels a
day to 90.6 million.  “The market is pretty well balanced,” said Ole Hansen,
the head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen.
“We are still in the process of just establishing a range.”  WTI for April delivery was at $92.71 a barrel, up 17 cents,
in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  as of
12:08 p.m. London time. The volume of all futures traded was 26
percent above the 100-day average. The contract rose 48 cents to
$92.54 yesterday, the highest close since Feb. 27.  Brent for April settlement on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange, which expires tomorrow, was 47 cents lower at
$109.18 a barrel. The more-actively traded May contract was down
42 cents at $108.81. The European benchmark grade was at a
premium of $16.46 to WTI. It shrank for a fifth day yesterday to
$17.11, the narrowest closing gap in six weeks.  Elusive Growth  The IEA today curbed estimates for global fuel consumption
in 2013, predicting demand will increase by 820,000 barrels a
day amid “elusive” economic growth.  WTI may extend gains as a measure of technical momentum
increases. The moving-average convergence divergence indicator
is above its signal line today for the first time since Feb. 1,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors typically buy
contracts on a so-called bullish MACD crossover. Crude advanced
from around $88 a barrel to above $98 over six weeks from mid-
December after a similar chart pattern.  Prices have rallied from the 200-day moving average, at
about $90.38 a barrel today, and may stall at around $95, the
low reached in mid-February, said Ric Spooner, a chief market
analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney.  The U.S. Energy Information Administration cut its 2013
forecast for WTI in its monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook
yesterday. The crude will average $91.92 this year, down from a
February estimate of $92.81, according to the Energy
Department’s statistical unit.  Corrective Rally  U.S. gasoline stockpiles dropped by 3.1 million barrels
last week, the API data showed. They are forecast to decrease
 1.2 million barrels  in the government report, according to the
median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Distillate
inventories, including heating oil and diesel, slid 2.2 million
barrels in the API report compared with a projected 2 million
barrel decline in the survey.  “The API figures provided mildly positive sentiment,”
Spooner said. “This is a corrective rally, there’s been no real
change in the bigger demand/supply picture that would suggest
this was the beginning of any significant move.”  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA for its
weekly survey, which is scheduled to be released at 10:30 a.m.
in  Washington .  India Talks  Saudi Arabia , Iraq and  Kuwait , OPEC’s biggest producers,
are in talks to ship extra crude to  India  as the nation prepares
to halt purchases from  Iran  because of global sanctions, four
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Indian refiners, which are waiting for an order from the
oil ministry to stop buying Iranian cargoes, are discussing
annual term contracts with the countries for the year starting
April 1, the people said this week, asking not to be identified
because the information is confidential.  Iranian oil shipments advanced 13 percent last month even
as the U.S. implemented sanctions complicating sales from the
Persian Gulf country, the IEA said in its monthly oil report.  Countries purchased 1.28 million barrels a day from Iran in
February, compared with an upwardly revised 1.13 million in
January, the Paris-based adviser to 28 oil-consuming nations
said in the report.  South Sudan  and  Sudan  agreed to order companies to resume
southern oil shipments through a Red Sea export terminal within
two weeks, more than a year after they were halted over a
dispute about transportation fees, according to an agreement
signed yesterday in Ethiopia’s capital,  Addis Ababa . South
Sudan’s production was 350,000 barrels a day before the halt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  