-- Yen Rises for Second Day on Lack of BOJ Consensus; Euro Declines
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-03-13T11:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/yen-rises-before-japan-opposition-announces-boj-nominee-stance.html
The yen strengthened for a second
day against the dollar as a lack of unity among Japanese
lawmakers for the government’s picks to run the central bank
damped speculation for accelerated monetary easing.  Japan ’s currency rose versus all its 16 major peers and
bullish bets on the yen in the options market climbed to a nine-
month high after the largest opposition party said yesterday it
would vote against deputy governor nominee Kikuo Iwata, who
advocates more easing. The euro weakened as Italian borrowing
costs rose at a debt sale.  New Zealand ’s dollar dropped on
speculation a worsening drought will weigh on the economy.  “The development surrounding Iwata’s nomination caused a
bit of a pullback in dollar-yen,” said  Ian Stannard , head of
European currency strategy at Morgan Stanley in  London . “We
expect the yen’s rebound to be short-lived because this issue
doesn’t change Japan’s policy outlook. The yen is likely to
resume its weakness against the dollar in coming days.”  The yen appreciated 0.4 percent to 95.67 per dollar as of
7:23 a.m. in  New York  after gaining 0.4 percent yesterday.
Japan’s currency strengthened 0.7 percent to 124.36 per euro
after sliding to 126.04 yesterday, the weakest since Feb. 13.
The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.2997.  The Your Party said today it will oppose Haruhiko Kuroda’s
nomination for BOJ governor and Hiroshi Nakaso for deputy, while
supporting Iwata. The Japan Restoration Party said it will
endorse Kuroda and Iwata and oppose Nakaso. The main opposition
 Democratic Party  of Japan said yesterday it opposed Iwata
because he advocates changing the central bank law to give the
government more control in setting policy.  ‘Yen Correction’  “The objection to Iwata’s nomination is being used as an
excuse for the yen correction,” said  Daisaku Ueno , a senior
foreign-exchange and fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in  Tokyo .  Current Governor Masaaki Shirakawa is due to step down
along with his two deputies on March 19. Iwata may be confirmed
without backing from the DPJ if Prime Minister Shinzo Abe can
secure the support of the smaller opposition parties.  The three-month dollar-yen risk reversal rate slid as low
as minus 0.145 percent, the least since June 4, indicating
increased demand for options that grant the right to buy Japan’s
currency versus the greenback.  The yen has slumped 7.6 percent this year, the worst
performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes amid expectations a new BOJ
leadership will boost cash infusions. The dollar rose 3.1
percent against their developed-market peers on signs the U.S.
recovery is gathering pace.  Recovery Signs  “We only see definitive signs of recovery in the U.S. and
nowhere else,” Stephen Jen, managing partner at SLJ Macro
Partners LLP, said at  Bloomberg Link ’s FX Debates in London.
“In the world where growth is decoupling and the U.S. is
leading the world into a recovery, the dollar will perform quite
well as risk capital is attracted into the U.S. It’s very hard
to short the dollar now.”  The euro fell for a second day against the dollar after
Italian borrowing costs increased at a debt sale amid concern a
political deadlock in the country will derail plans to implement
austerity measures.  Italy sold 3.32 billion euros of a 2015 note at 2.48
percent, up from the 2.30 percent at the prior auction on Feb.
13. The Treasury sold 2 billion euros of securities maturing in
2028 at 4.90 percent versus with 4.805 percent when the bonds
were sold via banks on Jan. 15.  Kiwi Slides  New Zealand’s dollar dropped for a second day versus the
U.S. currency after Finance Minister  Bill English  said yesterday
the dry weather could hurt economic growth.  Drought declarations were extended to most of  North Island 
last week, including the nation’s biggest milk-producing region.
Food prices fell 0.3 percent last month after increasing 1.9
percent in January, official data showed today.  “The drought continues to worsen on an almost daily basis,
placing downward pressure on the  New Zealand dollar ,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at  Bank of New Zealand  in
Wellington. “There’s no doubt that growth in the first half of
this year will be weaker as a result of the drought.”  The so-called kiwi weakened 0.3 percent to 82.43 U.S. cents
after declining to 81.88 cents on March 8, the lowest level
since Dec. 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  