-- Euro Weakens Before Factory Data; Asian Shares, Palladium Fall
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-03-12T08:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/yen-slides-stocks-climb-as-boj-signals-easing-treasuries-fall.html
The euro weakened and European
stocks extended a retreat from a 4 1/2-year high before reports
forecast to show weaker manufacturing data in the region.  Asian
shares (MXAP)  dropped from a 19-month high while palladium fell.  The euro declined 0.3 percent versus the dollar as of 8:18
a.m. in  London , and fell against most of its 16 major peers. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid for a second day, down 0.1 percent.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks slipped 0.5 percent after
rising as much as 0.3 percent and closing yesterday at the
highest level since August 2011. The Shanghai Composite Index
lost 1 percent. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures slipped 0.1
percent. Oil fell 0.5 percent, snapping three days of gains and
palladium dropped 0.4 percent.  European Union leaders will meet in Brussels for a summit
on March 14-15 to discuss rescue plans for Cyprus. U.K.
industrial production probably stalled in January after
increasing 1.6 percent in December, while factory output for the
euro region is forecast to drop 0.1 percent from a month earlier,
according to separate Bloomberg surveys. U.S. retail sales rose,
according to an economist survey before a report due tomorrow.  “Recent growth is a bit uneven comparing the U.S. with
generally weak industrial numbers from Europe and  Asia ,” said
Pang Cheng Duan, a managing director in Singapore at Manulife
Asset Management, which oversees about $45.3 billion in Asia.
“Sentiment is ahead of reality and stock markets are one or two
steps ahead of the real economy. The rally cannot go on
liquidity alone, and we need more impetus like better corporate
earnings.”  ‘Profit Taking’  Stocks rallied worldwide this week amid optimism global
policy makers will sustain or boost their stimulus efforts as
economic data from the world’s biggest economy improved. Asian
equities reached a 19-month peak, European shares traded at a 4
1/2-year high and the  S&P 500 Index  rose to the highest since
October 2007, driving equity  valuations  in the MSCI All-Country
World Index to the highest since May 2010.  “The market was overheating in the short term and poised
for profit taking,” said  Yutaka Miura , a senior technical
analyst at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s third-
biggest lender by market value. “The  market sentiment  remains
strong. From here, investors will wait and see what policy the
BOJ will actually take.”  Kospi Drops  About two stocks fell for each that rose in the MSCI Asia
Pacific gauge.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  slid 0.9 percent,
while Korea’s Kospi Index declined 0.5 percent.  Sinopec Shanghai Petrochemical Co. fell 7.8 percent in Hong
Kong, while Shinsei Bank Ltd. lost 4.1 percent. Japan Tobacco
Inc. declined 0.7 percent after the  finance ministry  sold a
stake at 2 percent below yesterday’s closing price.  The yen weakened 0.2 percent, after earlier losing as much
as 0.5 percent as  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s deputy governor nominee Kikuo
Iwata fanned speculation that the central bank will boost cash
infusions in coming months after saying decisive monetary easing
is needed. Iwata, a professor at Gakushuin University in  Tokyo ,
told lawmakers today that the BOJ can meet its 2 percent
inflation target in two years by buying bonds. Kuroda said
yesterday the existing asset-purchase program isn’t enough to
achieve the goal.
Palladium dropped 0.4 percent to $775.05 an ounce. Aluminum for
delivery in three months climbed 0.2 percent to $1,956 a metric
ton, after declining to a 15-week low of $1,934.85 yesterday.
Zinc was little changed at $1,9861 a ton.  Oil Falls  West Texas Intermediate oil traded near the highest level
in almost two weeks before a report that may show U.S.
stockpiles climbed to the highest in eight months. Futures fell
0.5 percent in  New York  after gaining for a third day yesterday.  Ten-year Treasury yields dropped 2 basis points to 2.04
percent.  Bill Gross , the manager of the world’s biggest bond
fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., reduced his
allocation of U.S. government notes in the company’s Total
Return Fund to 28 percent of assets in February, from 30 percent
in January, according to a report on Pimco’s website.  Retail sales in the U.S. probably rose 0.5 percent in
February, a fourth consecutive gain, according to a survey of
economists before a report due tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  