-- Hypo Sees East European Economies Shrinking as It Sells Assets
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-03-12T12:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-12/hypo-sees-east-european-economies-shrinking-as-it-sells-assets.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank International
AG, the Austrian lender nationalized in 2009, said deteriorating
eastern European economies will hurt business as pressure mounts
to sell assets.  This year “will probably be the most difficult since the
nationalization,” Chief Executive Officer Gottwald Kranebitter
said today at a press conference in Vienna. Rising unemployment
in southeastern  Europe  threatens lending and “the probability
that it will get better is slim,” he said.  The bank today reported a 2012 net loss of 28.1 million
euros ($36.6 million), compared with a profit of 59.1 million
euros a year earlier after loan-risk provisions jumped by a
third and lending revenue shrank 10 percent.  Hypo Alpe-Adria is seeking European Union approval to
extend an asset-sale deadline, Kranebitter said. Austrian
taxpayers have subsidized the firm with 1.76 billion euros in
capital. Public guarantees of about 16.5 billion euros, mostly
given by its erstwhile owner, the Austrian province of
Carinthia, still loom over the bank. The European Commission has
yet to approve the support.  “How much time is necessary to sell assets depends less on
us than on the market,” said Kranebitter, 49, who signed a
three-year contract extension yesterday. “If we’re forced into
a fire sale then the Austrian state would face further capital
injections.”  Provisions for bad debt rose 35 percent to 310 million
euros in 2012, while net interest income fell 10 percent to 678
million euros. Commission income dropped 14 percent to 63
million euros.  Hypo Alpe-Adria, based in Klagenfurt, faces potential
losses of as much as 6 billion euros should the European
Commission force disorderly asset sales, Kranebitter said. While
EU rules push member states to sell nationalized bank assets
within five years, the company may need until 2017 to fetch
adequate prices for its business, spokeswoman Nikola Donig said
yesterday.  “What we want is a more flexible time frame,” Kranebitter
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  