-- 
AB Foods Predicts Lower Profit on Narrower Primark Margins

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-04-27T09:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/ab-foods-predicts-lower-profit-on-narrower-primark-margins-1-.html
Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) , the
owner of Primark clothes stores, cut its full-year earnings
forecast as profitability at its clothing unit will be lower
than previously anticipated.  The shares fell as much as 7.2 percent, their biggest
intraday decline since Feb. 28, and traded at 980 pence, down
6.2 percent, at 9:02 a.m. in London, where the company is based.  AB Foods, which today reported an 8.6 percent increase in
fiscal first-half revenue to 5.2 billion pounds ($8.6 billion),
said higher value-added tax in the U.K., weak  consumer
confidence  and rising cotton prices will cut second-half
profitability at Primark. Adjusted earnings per share, which
excludes some items, will be similar to last year, AB Foods
said. That compares with a November forecast for “profit
growth” for 2011.  “Primark will retain its position as price leader and
margins in the second half will be lower than previously
planned,” Chairman Charles Sinclair said in a statement.  Sales at Primark stores open at least a year rose 3
percent. The division represented about 36 percent of profit for
AB Foods last year. Primark’s full-year operating profit margin
will be “closer to” the 10.9 percent reported in 2009 than the
2010 figure of 12.5 percent, Finance Director John Bason said
today in a phone interview.  2011 Guidance  “Management’s full-year guidance of flat adjusted earnings
growth is significantly below our previous expectations,”
analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein, including  Andrew Wood  in  New
York , wrote in a note today. “We expect significant downwards
revisions to consensus expectations and, despite a very weak
start to 2011, we see more downside from here.” Wood has a
“market perform” rating on AB Foods.  Group operating profit in the six months through March rose
to 356 million pounds from 336 million pounds a year earlier.
That missed the 384.2 million-pound average estimate of six
analysts. Net income rose to 241 million pounds, missing a
median estimate of 246.1 million pounds.  Consumer confidence in Britain stayed close to the lowest
since March 2009 last month, according to a report by GfK NOP
Ltd. U.K. banks reported an increase in mortgage defaults in the
first quarter and are concerned about the effects of a possible
interest-rate increase, the  Bank of England  said in March.  Consumer Squeeze  “The squeeze on consumer disposable income will continue
for some while yet and that will hit the high street, and all
expenditure,” Chief Executive Officer George Weston said today
in a phone interview. “I don’t think that this reduction in
disposable income is over yet.”  The company said that operating profit at its sugar unit,
the world’s second-largest producer of the sweetener, rose 27
percent to 108 million pounds in the first half. AB Foods said
in January that it expects adverse weather to hurt profitability
in the coming year as freezing conditions in the U.K. in
November and December reduced the beet crop. AB Foods said today
that it will supplement customer orders with sugar purchases
from third-party producers at “high prevailing market prices.”  AB Foods became No. 2 in global sugar production after
buying Azucarera Ebro in 2009 to expand in Spain and  Portugal .
The company controls Illovo Sugar Ltd., the largest maker of the
commodity in  Africa , and makes cane and beet sugar in  China . AB
Foods said Illovo “underperformed” in Africa due to “weather-
related production difficulties.”  Grocery Unit  The company’s grocery unit, which includes the Kingsmill
bread brand, said operating profit rose 17 percent to 111
million pounds, helped by sales of Ryvita crackers and Twinings
tea. Trading at George Weston Foods in  Australia  was
“significantly below” last year.  Primark has seen “exceptionally strong” trading in March
and April as good weather encouraged shoppers to buy warm-
weather clothing, Weston said. “I suspect we’re out-trading the
rest of the high street.” The company will open five new stores
in  Germany  in the first half of the next financial year.  “The rate of expansion across  Europe  is accelerating,”
Weston said. “The stores are very successful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  