-- 
ABB Profit Rises on Automation Equipment Sales, Cost Cuts

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-04-27T08:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/abb-profit-rises-on-automation-equipment-sales-and-cost-cuts-1-.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest maker
of power-transmission gear, said first-quarter profit rose
41 percent as demand for automation equipment improved and the
company reduced spending.  Net income increased to $655 million from $464 million a
year earlier, Zurich-based ABB said today in a statement. Profit
missed the average of $686.4 million of 21 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 21 percent to $8.4 billion,
beating the average estimate of $7.92 billion.  “We see positive signs that our infrastructure-related
businesses in both power and automation are on track for
recovery later this year,” Chief Executive Officer  Joe Hogan 
said in the statement.  ABB said it will continue to seek acquisitions while
cutting costs. The company completed a program of scaling back
spending on sales and administration in 2010, lowering costs by
$3 billion, and it saved an additional $215 million in the first
quarter. ABB completed the purchase of Baldor Electric Co. for
about $3.1 billion in January, lifting  acquisition spending  to
more than $6.5 billion since 2010.  The shares rose 0.35 Swiss francs, or 1.6 percent, to 22.91
francs at 9:55 a.m. in Zurich, increasing the advance for the
year to 10 percent. ABB has gained about twice as much this year
as rivals  Siemens AG (SIE) , at 4.7 percent, and  Schneider Electric SA (SU) ,
at 5.4 percent.  Demand Recovery  Demand for power-transmission equipment should recover more
substantially in the second half, supported by orders from
Chinese utilities, ABB said. At 70 percent, growth in  China 
outpaced other regions. ABB said it has started to lift some
prices to offset increasing raw material costs. It booked $107
million in charges related to Baldor in the quarter.  “The question remains if Power Products will ever return
to peak margins, and we believe it will not,” analyst Michael Hagmann of Nomura said. ABB was “less upbeat” for the unit
compared with Siemens, which was unusual for ABB, he said.
Hagmann recommends clients “hold” the shares and sees them
trading at 21 Swiss francs in a year.  Power Products contributed about one third of ABB’s
operating profit in the quarter and was the only one of ABB’s
five divisions where profit fell.  Base Orders  Earnings before interest and taxes increased 43 percent to
$1.01 billion, in line with analysts’ estimates. New orders rose
28 percent to $10.36 billion, beating the average estimate of
$9.39 billion. Contracts announced in the quarter include a $900
million ultra-high-voltage transmission system in  India , and a
$180 million underwater power link to support interconnection of
the Norwegian and Danish grids.  So-called base orders, or contracts below $15 million that
form the backbone of ABB’s earnings, rose 25 percent and climbed
to the highest in almost three years. The power systems unit
returned to profit, with $121 million in Ebit. The unit had a
$14 million year-earlier loss on derivative transactions.  German rival Siemens said on April 5 that it expects growth
rates to ease in the second half of the fiscal year ending in
September and that it’s moving some capacity and jobs at a
power-transmission equipment unit to lower-cost locations. The
Munich-based company reports quarterly earnings next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  