-- 
U.A.E. Bourses Said to Give More Time to Brokers on Delivery-Vs-Payment

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-04-27T14:06:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/abu-dhabi-bourse-said-to-give-more-time-to-brokers-on-delivery-vs-payment.html
The United Arab Emirates’ stock
exchanges will give brokerages until May 29 to switch to the so-
called delivery-versus-payment system, one of  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) ’s
criteria for the country’s upgrade to emerging market status.  “We have received a few concerns regarding the readiness
level of the market participants,” said an Abu Dhabi Securities
Exchange statement obtained by Bloomberg today. We “kindly ask
custodians and brokers to confirm their readiness by no later
than May 29.” The exchange itself “is ready to deal with the
new model,” the statement said.  A senior official at the exchange, who declined to be
identified because the matter hasn’t been made public, confirmed
the document was sent to brokerages. A spokesman for the Dubai
bourse, who declined to be identified, confirmed the exchange
was also giving market participants until May 29 to switch to
the system and that it can be used from tomorrow.  The U.A.E. regulator, the  Emirates Securities and
Commodities Authority , said April 11 DvP would be introduced to
the country’s exchanges on April 28. The Persian Gulf country is
currently classified as a frontier market at MSCI. The index
provider will revalue its assessment of the markets in June by
examining, among others, economic development, trading volumes
and market accessibility.  Setback  “The announcement has to be seen as a setback and I would
expect a negative reaction from both markets tomorrow,” said
 Julian Bruce , equity sales head at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE in
Dubai. “We don’t know of the exact timing of the MSCI decision
compared to the actual announcement but the new date of May 29
allows very little time for market participants to give their
feedback on any changes in ‘investability.’”  Dubai’s and  Abu Dhabi ’s benchmark stock indexes have
rallied this month on optimism the upgrade will be secured, with
the  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  soaring 7.1 percent and Abu Dhabi’s  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  rising 3.7 percent.  MSCI indexes  are tracked by
investors with an estimated $5.2 trillion in assets, according
to a May report by Shinhan Investment Corp.  “They just want to make sure the implementation of the DvP
goes smoothly with both brokers and custodians,” said Hassan El Salah, deputy head of institutional equities at Al Ramz
Securities LLC, an Abu Dhabi-based brokerage.  DvP is a securities industry procedure in which payment for
a security must be made when the security is delivered. Usually,
the payment is made to a bank, which in turn pays for the
security. Short sellers borrow and sell an asset, hoping to
profit by buying it back later for less.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  