-- 
Actelion ‘Confident’ Current Board Members Will Be Re-Elected

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-04-27T14:48:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/actelion-confident-current-board-members-will-be-re-elected.html
Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , under pressure from
its largest shareholder to consider options including a sale,
expects that investors will re-elect the Swiss biotechnology
company’s board members, Vice Chairman Joe Scodari said.  While it’s “certainly a possibility” that some nominees
put forward by Elliott Advisors (UK) Ltd. may be elected at the
May 5 annual meeting, “at the moment we don’t think that is a
likely outcome,” Scodari said today in a telephone interview.
Elliott owns a stake of more than 6 percent.  Both Elliott, part of a $17 billion hedge fund founded by
 Paul Singer , and Allschwil-based Actelion have proposed board
changes as they seek to win over shareholders. Elliott has
called for Actelion Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Clozel and
Chairman Robert Cawthorn to leave the board. Actelion’s efforts
to develop new drugs have faltered over the past year with a
series of clinical-trial setbacks.  “The current board feels pretty confident in the outcome,
that it will be in favor of the Actelion board and the
recommendations made by the Actelion board,” Scodari said.
Still, it’s “reasonably likely” shareholders will approve an
Elliott resolution to limit the terms of board members to one
year, he said.  Actelion is proposing an expansion of the board, supporting
Jean-Pierre Garnier, a former chief executive officer of
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , and Robert Bertolini, a former chief
financial officer at Schering-Plough Corp., as candidates in
addition to the nine current members. If elected, Garnier would
become chairman when Robert Cawthorn steps down next year.  Open Door  Elliott is nominating James Shannon, former head of  drug
development  at Novartis AG, and five others including Elmar Schnee, former head of pharmaceuticals at Merck KGaA, to the
board.  Scodari left open the door to possible talks with Elliott
before the meeting, adding that no negotiations are taking place
and none are scheduled.  “At this juncture we don’t believe it’s appropriate to
make an outreach but I think it would be inappropriate for me to
say that that’s completely off the table,” he said.
“Circumstances may develop where either they believe it makes
sense to do that, or we believe it makes sense to do that.”  Elliott won partial backing from a shareholder advisory
group last week. Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., or
ISS, said in a report that investors should vote for three
nominees to the board put forward by Elliott. Actelion said
April 21 that  Glass Lewis , an independent governance and proxy
voting firm, advised shareholders to re-elect the company’s
board.  Structural Change  Actelion’s board is considering changes to the structure of
the company, including paring some costs, Scodari said. Job cuts
are a possibility, he said.  “We would not rule anything out, so that would include
reductions in force if and when it’s determined that those
reductions make sense,” he said.  Switzerland ’s biggest biotechnology company is also mulling
larger acquisitions, something Actelion couldn’t have considered
five or six years ago, according to Scodari.  “The board and management is very open to larger
transactions and in fact that’s been under consideration for
some time,” he said. “When and if the right situation emerges,
we would absolutely move forward with that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  