-- 
Afghan Pilot Kills Foreign Soldiers in Airport Attack Claimed by Taliban

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 
2011-04-27T11:45:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/afghan-pilot-kills-foreign-soldiers-in-airport-attack-claimed-by-taliban.html
An Afghan air force pilot opened
fire after a dispute at Kabul’s airport, killing eight foreign
troops and a contractor, NATO forces said.  Those killed were Americans, the Qatar-based television
network Al-Jazeera reported, without saying where it got the
information. NATO’s  International Security Assistance Force , or
ISAF, said it was initially withholding the nationality of those
killed as a matter of policy.  The officer “opened fire on foreign coalition personnel
after an argument among them,” the Afghan defense ministry said
in a statement. “The Afghan pilot was a 20-year veteran and was
killed in the attack,” the ministry’s spokesman, General Zahir Azimy, said in a phone interview.  Today’s shooting is the latest in a series of attacks by
Afghan servicemen or men wearing Afghan military uniforms. On
April 16, a suicide bomber in Afghan army fatigues killed five
NATO troops and five Afghans at a military base near the eastern
city of Jalalabad.  A Taliban spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahid, said in an e-
mailed statement that the insurgent movement carried out the
attack today, which he said killed nine foreign soldiers and
five Afghan troops.  While there was no confirmation that the Taliban was
responsible, the guerrillas have repeatedly gained access to
military and security facilities in recent weeks.  On April 18, a gunman in an Afghan military uniform walked
into the Defense Ministry headquarters and killed at least two
soldiers before being shot dead by troops, the army said. The
Taliban said that attack was an effort to target the visiting
French defense minister, Gerard Longuet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Peter
Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  