-- 
Thailand’s Premier Visits Cambodian Battle Zone as Both Sides Seek Talks

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-04-27T04:56:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/thailand-s-premier-visits-cambodian-battle-zone-as-both-sides-seek-talks.html
Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  headed to a border area to visit residents displaced
by a week-long clash with Cambodian forces, as one of his aides
said a resolution to the conflict may be reached within days.  Abhisit visited camps for a few hours today in Surin
province, where battles have killed at least 13 people since
April 22. Both sides blame each other for starting the fighting
that continued for a sixth day along their disputed border, the
site of sporadic clashes over disputed temples since 2008.  A resolution to the conflict could take place “sooner
rather than later, maybe in two or three days,” Sirichoke Sopha,
an aide to Abhisit and a lawmaker in the premier’s Democrat
party, said by phone. “War isn’t good for anyone.”  Defense Minister Prawit Wongsuwan pulled out of planned
cease-fire talks after Cambodian media reports indicated they
were a sign that  Thailand  was surrendering, deputy army
spokesman Veerachon Sukondhadhpatipak said by phone today.
Abhisit told reporters later that Prawit was heading to  China  on
a business trip today, and would reschedule the meeting.  Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen said today that the
countries could hold one-on-one negotiations over Ta Moan and Ta
Krabey temples, where most of this week’s fighting has occurred,
Xinhua reported, citing comments to reporters in Phnom Penh.
Talks over Preah Vihear temple, a United Nations World Heritage
Site, must be resolved with a third party, the report said.  “Cambodia doesn’t want the conflict to spread further,”
Xinhua quoted Hun Sen as saying.  Meeting Planned  A meeting between Prawit and Cambodian counterpart Tea Banh
would take place in Phnom Penh “in the very near future,”
 Cambodia ’s defense ministry said in a  statement  yesterday. Today
it  accused  Thailand of trying to seize Ta Moan temple as
fighting with “heavy weaponry” continued.  Thailand denies any territorial ambitions and says it’s
acting in self defense.  “It is quite simple to settle this border conflict,”
Veerachon said. “If Cambodia stops firing, nothing will
happen.”  The latest fighting is more than a hundred kilometers (62
miles) from Preah Vihear temple, the site of battles in February
that claimed at least 10 lives and displaced 30,000 people. The
border conflict erupted in 2008 after Thailand opposed
Cambodia’s efforts to list Preah Vihear as a  World Heritage site .  Casualty Toll  Five Thai soldiers and one civilian have been killed in
fighting over the past week, Veerachon said. Seven Cambodian
soldiers have also died, the  Phnom Penh  Post reported yesterday.  In 1962, the  International Court of Justice  ruled in a 9-3
vote that Cambodia had sovereignty over Preah Vihear. It didn’t
rule on the land surrounding the temple, and the two countries
also have yet to reconcile 10,422 square miles (26,993 square
kilometers) of disputed waters in the Gulf of Thailand that may
contain oil and gas reserves.  Thailand’s $264 billion economy is more than 26 times the
size of Cambodia’s. The Cambodian army spent $191 million in
2009, compared with $4.9 billion for the military in Thailand,
according to the  Stockholm International Peace Research
Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  