-- 
Air France Recorder From 2009 Crash Found With `Rugged' Data Unit Missing

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-04-28T00:06:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/air-france-crash-search-finds-black-box-recorder-without-data.html
Investigators scouring the undersea
wreckage of the 2009 Air  France  plane crash located part of one
of the jet’s black-box recorders, which was missing the memory
unit that stores the data.  The “extraordinary” finding will help narrow the search
to recover the memory module and unravel why the plane plunged
into the Atlantic Ocean, said  Peter Goelz , a former managing
director at the  U.S. National Transportation Safety Board  who is
now a consultant at  O’Neill & Associates  in  Washington .  “It’s indestructible, like a bowling ball, able to
withstand anything,” Goelz said in an interview. “If they can
find it, they should be able to recover some data. And now they
know even better where to look.”  France’s BEA accident investigation  bureau  said yesterday
the chassis of the recorder was found “without the crash-
survivable memory unit that contains the data.” A  photo
released by the BEA  showed the rectangular-shaped chassis, which
is a bright orange color, upside down and partly buried in the
ocean’s floor with other debris nearby.  The wreckage was discovered this month off the coast of
 Brazil  in about 3,900 meters (12,800 feet) of water, deeper than
the Titanic, where there is no natural light and temperatures
are near freezing. All 228 people on board Air France Flight 447
were killed when the Airbus SAS A330 went down during a storm.  Cause for Optimism  “It would be fair to assume that the memory unit is
somewhere in the vicinity of the chassis, and it probably was
moving at the same rate and rotation when the plane hit the
water and the parts were separated,” said Richard Healing, a
former NTSB member who is now a consultant in Alexandria,
Virgina. “These are pretty darn rugged devices. There is cause
for some optimism that it will be found.”  While automated radio transmissions from the June 1, 2009,
crash suggest the jet’s airspeed sensors failed as it flew into
bad weather, leading to a series of system failures, the BEA has
said that the exact causes are unlikely to be established
without the black boxes.  The data recorder logs as many as 24 hours of several
hundred parameters of flight information including altitude and
airspeed, according to  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , the
manufacturer.  The units can withstand 1,500 times the force of gravity
and a depth of 20,000 feet of water for 30 days, said Bill
Reavis, a spokesman for  Morris Township , New Jersey-based
Honeywell. The company can’t comment on the condition of the Air
France recorder until it is “fully recovered,” Reavis said.  Investigators say there is no certainty the data stored by
the memory modules will be readable.  The search is continuing for the missing, cylindrical
module as well as the separate cockpit voice recorder and other
parts of the twin-engine jet that may be useful to the crash
probe, the BEA said in an e-mailed statement.  BEA disclosed the discovery of the wreckage on April 3,
after almost two years and four search operations. The latest
recovery effort began this week with a robotic submarine. The
data recorder was located during its first 12-hour dive, the BEA
said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  