-- 
Akamai Shares Fall After Revenue Forecast Trails Estimates

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-04-28T20:12:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/akamai-profit-tops-estimates-on-growing-revenue-from-internet-services.html
Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) , which
provides server space that helps websites load faster, dropped
15 percent after its second-quarter revenue forecast fell short
of analysts’ estimates.  Sales will be $270 million to $280 million, Chief Financial
Officer J. Donald Sherman said yesterday on a conference call.
Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had predicted $280.7 million.  Most of the company’s revenue comes from services such as
application acceleration, managing digital rights to content and
cloud-computing security. Akamai delivers data for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iTunes and streams video for  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Traffic growth in the
company’s volume business has “moderated,” and it’s too early
to predict the pace of growth for the rest of the year, Chief
Executive Officer Paul Sagan said on the call.  “There are a lot of factors that tend to either drive
deceleration or buffer the pace of growth,” he said. “We’ve
always seen it grow at pretty dramatic rates. Sometimes we’ve
seen it skyrocket and I don’t think that’s a realistic pace.”  Akamai declined $6.04 to $34.94 at 4 p.m. New York time in
early Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares had climbed 22
percent in the year before today.  Contract renewals extending from the first quarter will
also affect sales growth in the second quarter, Sagan said. On
the call, he declined to say whether Akamai would meet the full-
year revenue growth objective of 15 percent mentioned in its
fourth-quarter earnings conference call. The company doesn’t
offer full-year projections, he said.  Share Buyback  Excluding some costs, profit was 38 cents a share, the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company said in a statement. That
exceeded the 36-cent average analyst estimate compiled by
Bloomberg. The company said it authorized a $150 million
expansion of its share repurchase program, adding to a first-
quarter repurchase of approximately $1 million shares totaling
about $42.8 million.  First-quarter sales rose 15 percent to $276 million from
$240 million a year earlier. Analysts on average predicted sales
would jump to $272.3 million. Net income increased 24 percent to
$50.6 million, or 26 cents a share, from $40.9 million, or 22
cents, the previous year.  While the revenue guidance for the second quarter shows
Akamai is “less optimistic” about volume growth than analysts’
expectations, improvement in the second half of 2011 will allow
the company to generate 15 percent revenue growth for the year,
said Michael Olson, an analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co. in
 Minneapolis .  Second-Half Growth  “Full-year numbers will require an acceleration in volume
growth in the back half of the year to be achievable,” he said.  Akamai’s shares had gained in the past year as investors
bet on the company’s potential to profit from surging Internet
use.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest maker of computer-
networking gear, projects global online traffic will increase
fourfold from 2009 to 2014.  Akamai’s stock also has gotten a boost from speculation
that the company may be a takeover target. It has been the
subject of more published buyout rumors than any other company
since 2005, according to Bloomberg analysis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomoberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  