-- 
Takeovers Poised to Lose Arbs More Than $1 Billion: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-04-27T03:05:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/takeovers-poised-to-lose-arbs-more-than-1-billion-real-m-a.html
Lawson Software Inc. (LWSN) ’s agreement to
sell itself for about $1.9 billion wiped out $175 million for
investors who had speculated a higher offer was on the way.  Lawson, which counts billionaire Carl Icahn as one of its
biggest shareholders, agreed to be acquired by Golden Gate
Capital and Infor for $11.25 a share yesterday, 10 percent below
the nine-year high reached this month after the parties had
disclosed they were in talks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. While Lawson said it searched for better offers and
found none, bets on a superior bid had left the stock trading at
$12.13 the day before the deal was announced.  With companies from  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  to  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH) 
and NYSE Euronext trading a combined $947 million above their
takeover prices after the pace of worldwide deals climbed 22
percent this year, some speculators projecting sweetened bids
may be disappointed.  Equinox Minerals Ltd. (EQN)  already lost C$229
million ($241 million) in value yesterday after investors
incorrectly bet that China’s  Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208)  would
counter  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ’s $7.6 billion takeover.  “It’s a dangerous game,” said Peter Lobravico, New York-
based vice president of merger arbitrage trading and sales at
Wall Street Access. “You’re not always going to get another
bidder to step in. It is healthy for the arb community to have
some reminder that there is risk in risk arbitrage.”  Terry Blake, a spokesman for St. Paul, Minnesota-based
Lawson, declined to comment.  Lawson, Oracle  Private-equity firm Golden Gate and Alpharetta, Georgia-
based Infor, which makes software used by manufacturers and
distributors, are paying almost $1.9 billion, excluding net
cash, to acquire Lawson’s health-care software, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Lawson’s stock was driven higher in the last month by
speculation  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  may be interested in a takeover after
Lawson disclosed March 11 that it was in talks with San
Francisco-based Golden Gate and Infor about an unsolicited
$11.25-a-share proposal. Oracle not bidding may signal the
second-largest seller of business applications software is
exploring a bigger deal, said Richard Williams, an analyst at
Cross Research in Livingston, New Jersey.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Redwood City,
California-based Oracle, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Lawson sought bids from a number of potential acquirers
well before the March 11 disclosure, said a person with
knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified because
the process was private. No one submitted a rival offer, the
person said.  Icahn’s Stake  Lawson shares fell 8.8 percent to $11.06 yesterday after
the agreement with Golden Gate and Infor was announced. The drop
erased $175 million in market capitalization, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Icahn, who controlled 8.7 percent of the stock as of March
14, said yesterday he continues to support the company’s
strategic plan and that the deal underscores the benefits of
management being open to strategic alternatives.  He hadn’t made any trades in Lawson stock since January,
according to the March filing. Icahn, 75, said the deal is worth
70 percent more than when he first bought the shares for $6.63
each in April 2010, according to yesterday’s  filing .  Minmetals, the copper and aluminum producer controlled by
state-owned China Minmetals Group, dropped its April 3, C$6.04
billion bid for Equinox this week after Toronto-based Barrick
trumped it with a competing offer of C$7.34 billion.  ‘Optimistic Assessment’  Equinox, the copper producer based in Perth, Australia,
with mines in Zambia and Saudi Arabia, closed 2.7 percent above
Barrick’s C$8.15-a-share deal when it was made public April 25
as investors speculated Minmetals would come back with a higher
bid. Hong Kong-based Minmetals withdrew its unsolicited C$7-a-
share proposal the next day because Barrick’s takeover price was
higher than its “most optimistic assessment of value.”  Traders “overestimated Minmetals coming in,” said Sachin Shah, a special situations and merger arbitrage strategist at
Capstone Global Markets LLC in New York. “Just because you
don’t have shareholder support and the deal might not go through
on the current terms, that doesn’t mean somebody else is going
to come in and make a higher offer.”  The market for takeovers was revived as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rallied to the highest level since June 2008.
Buyers sitting on more than $3 trillion of cash globally were
undeterred by rebellions in the Middle East, oil’s climb above
$100 a barrel and Japan’s nuclear crisis.  ‘Very Much Intact’  The 7,834 mergers and acquisitions announced globally this
year have totaled $749 billion, a 22 percent gain from the
$615.8 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The increase extended a 27 percent jump
to $2.22 trillion last year, following the slowest 12 months for
deals since 2003, the data show.  “The M&A cycle is very much intact,” said  Dan Veru , chief
investment officer at Fort Lee, New Jersey-based Palisade
Capital Management LLC, which oversees $3.8 billion. “While the
capital markets are open, they are open to well-structured
deals, not necessarily bidding wars.”  The 18-day bidding war between  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  of Round Rock, Texas, for Fremont, California-based 3Par
Inc. last year spurred investors to drive the stock prices of
takeover targets above their offers, especially in the
technology industry, Wall Street Access’s Lobravico said.  ‘Juices Flowing’  Hewlett-Packard in  Palo Alto , California, spent $2.1
billion including net debt on data-storage company 3Par, or 325
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, a record for any computer takeover greater than
$500 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Every time you see an event like that it gets the juices
flowing,” said  Keith Wirtz , who helps manage $18 billion as
chief investment officer for Fifth Third Asset Management in
Cincinnati. “Sometimes there may be a tendency to become more
emotional than rational.”  Not all acquisition targets trading above their deal prices
will end up getting higher bids because companies are still
conserving cash as the economy recovers, Wirtz said.  “U.S. companies are looking for productive use of the
balance sheet,” he said. “We just have not seen the expansion
of competition for deals. Everyone’s still feeling their way
around the conditions of the U.S. and global economy.”  Tenet Healthcare  Traders are betting that  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) ’s
$6.6 billion bid, including net debt, for smaller rival Tenet
Healthcare is the most likely deal in North America greater than
$500 million to receive a sweetened bid or competing offer, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Tenet, which received an offer Dec. 9 from Franklin,
Tennessee-based Community Health for $5 a share in cash and $1
share in stock, has traded as much as 27 percent above the bid,
even as Community Health said April 18 it made the offer all
cash. Dallas-based Tenet’s stock closed 15 percent above the
deal price yesterday, inflating the market capitalization by
$437 million.  Tenet Chief Executive Officer Trevor Fetter, 51, said in a
statement last week that “Community Health’s proposal continues
to undervalue Tenet,” particularly as business trends and
industry fundamentals have improved.  Cephalon has traded as much as 6 percent higher than
 Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) ’s proposed $73-a-
share offer since it was announced March 29, lifting the market
capitalization $205 million above the bid as of yesterday.  ‘Strong Track Record’  Valeant said April 21 that it’s prepared to “modestly”
raise the bid if it’s permitted to conduct due diligence. The
offer is so low that Mississauga, Ontario-based Valeant could
raise it by 15 percent to $84 and still pay less than any drug
takeover in history, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Cephalon board has a strong track record of acting in
the best interests of our shareholders,” said Natalie de Vane,
a spokeswoman for the Frazer, Pennsylvania-based company. “Our
board is very aware of its fiduciary responsibility and is
making every effort to maximize value for all of our
shareholders.”  Rival bids from Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  paired with  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
drove  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s stock to its highest since October 2008
this month. Nasdaq OMX of New York and Atlanta-based ICE’s joint
offer of $42.91 a share is about 13 percent higher than Deutsche
Boerse’s bid for $38.11 a share, which NYSE Euronext has traded
above on more than half of the days since the two agreed to
merge two months ago.  ‘You Don’t See’  NYSE Euronext closed at $39.29 yesterday, valuing it about
$305 million more than the Deutsche Boerse offer. The companies
are considering financial incentives to win support for the
merger, four people with direct knowledge of the matter, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private, said
this month.  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for New York-based
NYSE Euronext, declined to comment.  Traders recently have assumed incorrectly that deals will
lead to boosted offers or more bids, Capstone’s Shah said.  “In most instances, eight or nine out of 10 times, you
don’t see a counteroffer,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 