-- 
Alinea’s Sublime Chemistry, L2O’s Toro Top Chicago List: Review

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-04-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/alinea-s-sublime-chemistry-l2o-s-toro-top-chicago-list-review.html
Chicago ’s Alinea is easy to hate.  It’s expensive. Dinner for two can easily top out at $1,000
after wine, tax, tip, $6 cups of tea and $8 bottles of Evian.  It’s complicated. A chemistry experiment of a restaurant,
it specializes in hard-to-pronounce ingredients more commonly
found on the back of bubble gum wrappers. Propylene glycol
alginate, anyone?  It’s a pain to get into. The two month wait isn’t likely to
let up any time soon, now that  Alinea  is apparently the best
restaurant in America and the sixth best in the world -- as if
one could actually measure such a thing.  The superlatives were part of the annual S. Pellegrino list
published last week. Days later, Alinea’s cancer-surviving
owner, Grant Achatz, was named one of Time magazine’s 100  most
influential  people. He was the only chef included.  I had the good fortune of dining at the three Michelin-
starred townhouse during what should have been the worst
possible time: Achatz, 36, was opening two new venues, the
historical and futuristic Next and an experimental cocktail bar
called Aviary.  So here’s what happened over three playful hours at Alinea:
I fell in love with it.  Sweet Meat  I drank truffle-potato soup from a wax bowl. I sucked
lemongrass water from a test tube. I snacked on butterscotch
bacon suspended from a wire and scraped yuzu snow off metal so
cold I was warned not to lick it.  Alinea makes you rethink avant-gardism by serving great
food that still fills you up. You won’t leave hungry.  When I was one-tenth done with my 22 courses, a waiter
served me an empty oyster shell topped with a green leaf.  I frowned and I ate. The flora tasted precisely like a West
Coast oyster -- cucumbery brine and all. Turns out the leaf
naturally contains that maritime flavor. No trickery at all. And
therein lies the point of this wizardry (or lack thereof).
Achatz challenges the ways we perceive and appreciate flavors.  And he wants to surprise us. Why does my black caviar taste
funny? Because it’s not caviar, it’s calcium-alginate licorice
balls. Their perfume cuts through the gorgeous oil of trout roe.
What gave my scallop so much seaside flavor? Just some  Old Bay 
and Japanese beer.  Tiny Doughnut  Hamachi is fried into a tiny doughnut with banana and
ginger. It’s a perfect balance of sweet, spicy, fatty and salty,
with the ordinary flavors of competent cooking trumping the
anomalous ingredients.  Warning: There are no choices on the $195 menu and the wine
pairing is euphemistically priced at “three quarters the cost
of the full menu.” That’s $150 for math dunces -- a worthwhile
investment given the difficulty of matching a single bottle to
nearly two dozen dishes. Ten tiny pours prevent inebriation.  A  Palmaz Cabernet  from Napa provides enough New World
jamminess to stand up to a single bite of venison; the red meat
is hidden under a pile of minty eucalyptus. Sweet Austrian
riesling slices a deconstructed sweet potato pie.  Tired of sugary bourbon sauce with all the alcohol burned
off? The kitchen uses whiskey “caviar” that bursts into a
woody, throat-warming bliss.  No petits fours here. Achatz himself pours little dots of
chocolate right onto your tablecloth. Watch as the circles
magically turn into squares. He throws streaks of peanut butter
dust. It will rehydrate into your soon-to-be sticky mouth. He
cracks a block of liquid nitrogen ice cream so cold it
disintegrates into shards. You eat with your hands and make a
mess of it all in this eight-year old’s fantasy response to
tableside service. You leave happy, full and broke.  L2O  The booked up Alinea is a problem for those who don’t plan
their Midwest trips months in advance. So there’s another three-
Michelin starred joint in town that can accommodate same day
reservations. That seafood spot is L2O, Chicago’s haute-ocean
response to  New York ’s Le Bernardin.  First some bad news: the day after Michelin bestowed its
highest honor on  L2O , chef Laurent Gras quit. Here’s the good
news: L2O is still pretty great. Menus have been shortened; a
spokesperson said meal times have dropped from four, to three
hours.  The windowless room in the  Belden-Stratford  hotel is a
refuge of quiet, khaki-colored opulence and the “$185
singular” menu is the apotheosis of luxuriant sustainability.  Brilliant Belly  The first course was kindai toro, a raw mash of bluefin
tuna belly cut from a rare farm-raised breed. The politically
correct fish was richer and gamier than its wild and endangered
cousin. It was topped with Italian osetra caviar. If only Masa
could serve a version this good.  Chef Francis Brennan is a master at coaxing powerful
flavors from pristine ingredients. He marinates king salmon in
soy, then applies just enough heat to warm up the flavorful fish
as giant salmon roe doubles the oily intensity. His Australian
Wagyu packs a powerful punch with unctuous beefiness.  A few dishes went awry. Greasy foie gras and overcooked king
prawns have no place in a meal that ended up costing $380 with
wine, tax and tip. And thirsty diners shouldn’t have to watch
their sashimi platters grow tepid while waiting for their sake.
Frantic sommeliers struggle to keep pace with the kitchen. But
it’s easy to forget such inconveniences after a perfect praline
souffle.  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: $195 for Alinea; $110, $145, $185 menus for L2O  Sound Level: Moderate, about 65-70.  Date Place: Yes.  Inside Tip: Alinea will serve meat-free menus with notice.  Special Feature: Amazing bread service at L2O.  Will I be back: Yes, to both.  Alinea is at 1723 N. Halsted St., Chicago. Information: +1-
312-867-0110 or  http://www.alinea-restaurant.com .  L2O is at 2300 Lincoln Park West. Information: +1-773-868-
0002 or  http://www.l2orestaurant.com .  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak
up, please. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your date. 66
to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn
because you’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 