-- 
Alliant Techsystems Missile Glitches Corrected, U.S. Navy Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-27T13:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/alliant-techsystems-missile-glitches-corrected-u-s-navy-says.html
Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK)  has
corrected software and manufacturing glitches that halted combat
testing and delayed a potential $1.1 billion Pentagon production
decision on a new anti-radar missile, according to the U.S.
Navy.  “The anomalies experienced in the first operational test
period have been corrected and verified,” Navy program manager
Captain Brian Corey said in an e-mail. “The weapon is
performing very well and the team has been able to meet the
affordability goals.”  “We are confident we will successfully complete” combat
testing, which may resume in June if a Pentagon review confirms
the corrections in flight tests, he said. The missile will miss
its scheduled May date to be declared initially ready for
combat, however.  The test results will determine whether the Pentagon will
order full production of the missile. Minneapolis-based Alliant
Techsystems has said it may see as much as $1.1 billion in
revenue from the missile’s sales over a decade if the Navy
decides to go ahead with orders.  The Navy has spent $98.1 million to date on the project.
Production may total as many as 1,879 supersonic, medium-range
missiles to equip Navy, Marine Corps and Italian Air Force
aircraft. The weapon is designed to home in on enemy air-defense
radar and weapons.  ‘Making Progress’  “There are going to be challenges when you develop a new
breakthrough technology,” Bryce Hallowell, a spokesman for
Alliant Techsystems, said in an e-mail. “We are confident that
the corrective actions will mitigate the known anomalies. We are
clearly making progress.”  The Navy on Sept. 3 halted tests of the missile following
six software or circuit-card failures in the first 12 trials.
It’s “a rare occurrence” to stop combat testing so quickly,
the Pentagon’s office of operational testing said last year in
an e-mail provided by Cheryl Irwin, a Pentagon spokeswoman.  The revised missile has flown more than 160 flight hours on
aircraft since February to assess its readiness to resume combat
testing.  One hundred flights are planned to evaluate the missile’s
effectiveness in destroying radar. Initial flights will assess
missile guidance, internal diagnostics and pre-launch
communications with the pilot, Navy and Pentagon officials said.  The Pentagon’s Defense Contract Management Agency said the
test failures “were caused by both hardware and software
issues,” according to the U.S. Government Accountability
Office’s annual weapons report released last month.  ‘Poor Parts Quality’  “The hardware failures involved multiple subcontractors
and were primarily attributed to poor parts quality,” according
to the report.  The Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided  Missile  is intended as
an upgrade to the existing  Harm  missile made by Waltham,
Massachusetts-based  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  The Alliant Techsystems version
is equipped with a more modern homing receiver and navigation
systems that let it detect the radar signals of stationary and
mobile air defense systems.  The missiles will be equipped with a transmitter that sends
operators target images just before impact, for improved
reconnaissance and intelligence.  Alliant Techsystems has dropped 13 percent in the last 12
months. Shares yesterday rose 98 cents, or 1.4 percent, to
$70.15 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  