-- 
Allstate’s Profit Quadruples as Catastrophe Costs Fall, Investments Gain

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-04-27T22:28:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/allstate-s-profit-quadruples-as-catastrophe-costs-fall-investments-climb.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest
publicly traded U.S. home and auto insurer, said first-quarter
profit more than quadrupled on a decline in costs tied to
natural disasters and gains in investments.  Net income surged to $519 million, or 97 cents a share,
from $120 million, or 22 cents, a year earlier, the Northbrook,
Illinois-based insurer said today in a statement. Operating
income, which excludes some investment results, was 93 cents a
share, beating the 68-cent average estimate of 21 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Catastrophe losses narrowed by almost half to $333 million
from $648 million a year earlier, when a winter storm caused
damage in 24 U.S. states. Rival property-casualty insurers
including Travelers Cos. and Chubb Corp. have reported first-
quarter profit aided by reduced claims from natural disasters.  “I would characterize it as a more normal catastrophe
quarter,” Allstate Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Wilson  said today in an interview. “We were a lot lower than we
were a year ago, but a year ago was a record.”  Allstate advanced $1.16, or 3.6 percent, to $33.10 at 4:55
p.m. in extended trading in  New York  after the earnings
announcement. It has declined about 4 percent in the past year
as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 15 percent.  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, advanced
to $36.51 a share from $35.32 at the end of last year.  Allstate’s Portfolio  Net realized  capital gains  in the first quarter were $96
million, compared with a loss of $348 million a year earlier, as
impairment writedowns and derivative losses narrowed.  Wilson, 53, has reshaped Allstate’s investment portfolio
since 2008, when writedowns contributed to an annual loss of
$1.68 billion. He acquired corporate bonds and cut back on
stocks, commercial mortgage-backed securities and municipal
debt. Allstate’s holdings of state and local government notes
declined by 25 percent last year to $15.9 billion, according to
regulatory filings.  “They were very early on recognizing that there could be
problems in the municipal  bond market ,” said Paul Newsome, an
analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, who has a “hold”
rating on Allstate. “They basically lowered their exposure, and
to their credit, they started lowering it before a lot of those
values declined.” He spoke before earnings were announced.  Municipal Debt  Municipal bonds advanced 0.3 percent in the first quarter,
including invested interest, after slipping 4.5 percent in the
last three months of 2010, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. Corporate bonds gained 1.6 percent in the
first quarter, including reinvested interest, the data show.  Premium revenue in Allstate’s property and liability
business fell to $6.45 billion from $6.5 billion a year earlier.
The insurer made 5.1 cents for every premium dollar in its
property and liability coverage compared with 1.1 cents a year
earlier, aided by higher prices for coverage and lower costs
tied to natural disasters incurred by its homeowners business.  “Weather has gotten so much worse over the last five or
six years, so we continue to increase prices,” said Wilson.
“This quarter we actually had an underwriting profit in
homeowners because we had what we would consider more average
catastrophes.”  Allstate is seeking to retain auto-insurance customers
after losing clients for most of the past three years as drivers
shun agents and shop online at direct-to-consumer carriers such
as Progressive Corp. and Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s Geico
business. The overall standard auto policy count dropped 0.7
percent from a year earlier.  Progressive’s Results  Progressive said this month that total personal auto
insurance policies climbed to 11.9 million on March 31, a 5.8
percent increase from a year earlier. The gains were led by a
9.6 percent rise in the number of customers who signed up
through direct channels such as the Internet and telephone.  “Geico and Progressive really suck the oxygen out of the
room,”  Cliff Gallant , an analyst at KBW Inc., said before the
earnings announcement. “They’re just very aggressive, a lot of
ad spending, and very attractively priced products, as well. And
they’re still making profit, so it’s hard to compete against
them.” Gallant has a  “market perform” rating on Allstate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  