-- 
Malta Calls Italian Permits for North African Migrants ‘Trash’

-- B y   K a r l   S t a g n o   N a v a r r a   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-04-27T12:10:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/malta-calls-italian-permits-for-north-african-migrants-trash-.html
Malta’s government criticized
 Italy ’s decision to grant North African migrants temporary
permits to travel on to Europe, calling the policy “trash”
because it may lead to a reintroduction of border controls
within the European Union.  “What Malta was trying to do was to bring about a
solidarity mechanism” that would compel all EU nations to
accept asylum-seekers regardless of where they enter the bloc,
Interior Minister Carmelo Mifsud Bonnici said today in a speech
at a conference in Valletta.  More than 25,000 immigrants have arrived in Italy from
North Africa this year, prompting the Italian government to
establish temporary camps across the country. Most of the
arrivals are from  Tunisia  and  Libya , where popular unrest led to
the ouster of Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and
threatens the regime of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  Tunisia has lacked border controls since the government was
overthrown in January. Italy tried to turn up pressure on its EU
allies to get involved by announcing earlier this month it would
grant temporary residency permits to the arrivals, allowing them
to travel freely in the 27-nation bloc.  Italy repatriated thousands of immigrants, offering
financial incentives, following an agreement with Tunisia’s new
government. Earlier this month, Italian Interior Minister
Roberto Maroni said Rome would issue temporary-resident permits
to immigrants.  Schengen Revamp?  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy displayed a united front after a
summit yesterday in Rome, saying they would work to overhaul the
EU’s Schengen treaty, which permits free movement within most of
 Europe . They sent a joint letter to European Commission
President Manuel Barroso because “in exceptional circumstances,
we believe there must be changes and we’ve agreed to work
together on them,” Berlusconi told reporters.  Bonnici said border controls may have to be re-introduced
in Europe because of the Italian government’s policy on
immigration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Stagno Navarra in Valletta, Malta, at 
 ksnavarra@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  