-- 
Amazon Falls After Forecasting Quarterly Operating Profit Below Estimates

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-04-27T21:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/amazon-falls-after-forecasting-quarterly-operating-profit-below-estimates.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  rose the most in 18
months on the  Nasdaq  after reporting sales that topped analysts’
predictions, fueling optimism that a surge in spending on
warehouses and data centers will result in faster growth.  Revenue last quarter rose 38 percent to $9.86 billion,
beating the $9.54 billion average prediction of analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Amazon Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bezos is using a
swelling cash hoard to promote the Kindle book reader, erect
distribution centers and add equipment that delivers computing
via the Internet. Last quarter marked the eighth straight period
of rising capital spending. While the increase is eroding
profitability, it’s helping Amazon expand into new markets, such
as cloud computing.  “Despite the massive amounts they’re investing, they’re
doing the right thing long term,” said Gene Munster, an analyst
at Minneapolis-based Piper Jaffray & Co.  Capital spending more than doubled to $298 million last
quarter, contributing to an operating profit forecast that
missed analysts’ projections for a fifth consecutive period.  Operating income, which excludes taxes and interest, will
be $95 million to $245 million this quarter, the Seattle-based
company said yesterday. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
predicted, on average, operating income of $369.5 million.  Shares Jump  Amazon rose $14.33, or 7.9 percent, to $196.63, reversing a
decline of as much as 9.1 percent in extended trading yesterday.
The increase was the biggest gain since Oct. 23, 2009. The
shares have advanced 9.3 percent this year.  Analysts said that continued investment in technology to
accommodate “robust” product growth will pay off down the
road, according to notes today. Deutsche Bank AG analyst Jeetil Patel upgraded the stock’s price target to $215 from $192.  The retailer is carrying out plans to build nine warehouses
this year, and Amazon may build more if consumer demand
continues to grow at the current pace, Chief Financial Officer
Tom Szkutak said on a conference call. The company also boosted
marketing spending for the Kindle.  Amazon is one of the few companies with revenue exceeding
$20 billion that has the potential to sustain sales expansion of
more than 20 percent,  Jason Helfstein , an analyst at New York-
based Oppenheimer & Co., said today in a report. He also
upgraded the company, raising price expectations to $220 from
$200.  Better Economy  The company will continue to see 20 percent growth beyond
2010 because of “an improving macro environment, entrance into
new product categories, the integration of Zappos.com, and
growth in the e-reader market” said Helfstein, who rates the
stock “outperform.”  Operating margins narrowed to 3.3 percent, the lowest in 18
quarters. Net income in the first quarter fell to $201 million,
or 44 cents a share. That compared with the 61 cents that
analysts predicted. Amazon doesn’t forecast net income.  “Amazon is doing a lot of experimentation right now,” Ken Sena, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York , said in
a televised interview on “ Bloomberg West .” “They also have a
long-term view. It requires patience on the part of investors.”  As it expands, Amazon is running into disputes with states
such as  California , New York and  North Carolina , which want to
collect sales tax from it. Amazon has facilities in about 20
states, said Heath Terry, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity, in a
report this week. Amazon says it only charges a sales tax in
 five states .  Tax Change  Amazon may miss out on as much as $520 million in revenue
this year if a change in U.S. policy forces it to collect sales
taxes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Such a law may
curb about $7 billion in domestic online purchases.  The company got its start in 1995 as an online bookseller.
It has since expanded into thousands of products -- everything
from DVDs to baby clothes. Amazon Web Services, which lets
customers rent computer capacity to house data and run computer
applications, may one day be as big as the retail business, the
company has said.  Amazon may have sold more than 8 million Kindles last year,
accounting for about 5 percent of sales, according to Benchmark
Co. Amazon doesn’t disclose Kindle sales figures, other than
saying it’s the company best-selling product.  Amazon more than doubled capital expenditures to $979
million last year and will spend about $900 million this year as
part of its effort to expand warehouses and data centers,
according to January estimates from  James Mitchell , an analyst
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “Current investments will generate growing competitive
advantages, significant market-expanding opportunities and
ancillary growth drivers like Amazon Web Services,” Terry said
in a report. “That will more than offset the impact of lower
margins near term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomoberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  