-- 
Lancer Group Founder Michael Lauer Acquitted of Stock Fraud in Hedge Funds

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M o r t   L u c o f f
-- 
2011-04-27T17:05:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/lancer-group-founder-michael-lauer-acquitted-of-stock-fraud-in-hedge-funds.html
Lancer Group founder Michael Lauer
was acquitted of fraud charges stemming from an alleged stock-
pricing scheme that prosecutors said he used to artificially
inflate the value of his  hedge funds .  Jurors in federal court in Miami deliberated more than
three days before finding Lauer not guilty of  wire fraud  and
conspiracy in connection with the alleged scheme. He faced as
many as 25 years in prison and $500,000 in fines if convicted.  “There was simply no evidence, nothing illegal,” Lauer
said outside the courtroom after the verdict. He said he plans
to return to the hedge fund business.  The government alleged Lauer and an associate bought
quantities of restricted stock of shell companies starting in
1999 and instructing brokers to buy a smaller number of shares
of the same companies at higher, open-market prices to drive
shares to a targeted price, according to court filings.  Lauer, who founded the New York-based Lancer Group in 1993,
then falsely valued all of the firm’s securities at the higher
closing prices, which artificially inflated the funds’
investment returns, prosecutors contended. That helped attract
new investors and generated lucrative fees for fund officials,
the government contended.  Lauer’s lawyers countered during the six-week trial that
the hedge fund manager was a savvy trader whose stock picks were
designed to make money for investors and he didn’t engage in
fraud.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Michael Lauer, 08-20071, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Florida  (Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Mort Lucoff in Miami at  morsybil@bellsouth.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  