-- 
Angie’s List Appoints Chairman and Finance Chief as Company Considers IPO

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-04-27T21:55:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/angie-s-list-names-chairman-and-chief-financial-officer-in-ipo-signal.html
Angie’s List  Inc., a website that
provides consumer reviews to 1.5 million members, may decide to
opt for an initial public offering as early as this year, Chief
Executive Officer Bill Oesterle said.  The company last year hired Code Advisors, which has
provided advice on previous funding and would help Angie’s list
choose bankers in the case of an IPO. Code is also advising on
potential opportunities to sell the site, Oesterle said. Angie’s
List has rebuffed expressions of interest from prospective
buyers, which were public companies, he said.  Angie’s list named Keith Krach as chairman and Robert Millard as chief financial officer earlier today, appointments
that may also presage plans for an IPO. A public share sale
would help the Indianapolis-based startup raise money to pursue
faster growth in the competitive consumer-reviews and daily
deals markets, where rivals include Facebook Inc., Groupon Inc.
and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   “We are certainly reaching a size, and have opportunities
in front of us that are causing us to consider very seriously a
public offering,” Oesterle said in a telephone interview. “We
could make that decision this year.” IPO funds could be used to
boost advertising on TV and radio, he said.  Angie’s list doesn’t formally disclose financial details.
Oesterle said revenue rose 40 percent in 2010, and should
increase at a faster pace this year. The company expects to end
the year with 1.8 million members, up from 1.2 million at the
beginning of the year, he said.  New Executives  Founded in 1995 by Angie Hicks and Oesterle, Angie’s List
provides ratings and reviews for more than 500 types of
businesses.  Krach, currently chief executive officer of 3Points LLC and
chairman at DocuSign Corp., founded software maker  Ariba Inc. (ARBA) 
and led that company through its IPO, Angie’s List said in an e-
mailed  statement  today. Millard was previously CFO of
FinishMaster Inc., a distributor of automotive paints and
related accessories, Angie’s List said.  “The goal is to accelerate the tremendous business
momentum that Angie’s List already has,” Krach said in an
interview. “At some point in the future, I am sure there will
be an IPO -- in the intermediate future.”  Pre-IPO companies often beef up management to add financial
expertise and executives with experience taking businesses
public.  “This is all according to the IPO playbook,” said Tom Taulli, an independent IPO analyst, said in an interview today.
“In order to go public, you need a strong board and a CFO who
knows how to deal with  Wall Street .”  In March, Angie’s List raised $53.6 million in a private
share offering from investors including mutual-fund company T.
Rowe Price Group Inc., which tends to invest in companies that
are already public. Last year, Angie’s List said it raised $25
million from investors including  venture  firms Battery Ventures,
Saints Capital, and Wasatch Funds.  The site, which provides recommendations on everything from
roofing to medicine, would likely seek to raise $100 million to
$200 million, Taulli said, valuing the company at more than $1
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  