-- 
Apple Denies Tracking IPhone Locations, Will Update Software

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 
2011-04-27T21:07:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/apple-denies-tracking-iphone-locations-will-reduce-data-storage-capacity.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , facing scrutiny from
consumers and lawmakers over data collection on its iPhone, said
it isn’t tracking customers’ location while acknowledging it
gathers information about wireless gear near a user’s handset.  “Apple is not tracking the location of your iPhone,” the
Cupertino, California-based company said in a statement today.
“Apple has never done so and has no plans to ever do so.”  The iPhone saves information on Wi-Fi hot spots and
cellular towers near the device’s current location and accesses
the data when needed by users, Apple said. The company can’t
locate a user based on the hot spots and tower data, and the
information the company receives on locations is anonymous.
Apple also said it will fix a software bug that let handsets
store more of this information than necessary.  Privacy advocates disputed Apple’s contention that it isn’t
tracking location. Hot-spot and cellular-tower information shows
where a device is, said  Marc Rotenberg , executive director of
the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a group seeking more
disclosure about the location data.  “That’s exactly how they determine the location of the
device,” Rotenberg said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “They are keeping location data and the statement
is a little misleading on that point.”  Software Update  The company plans a free software update that will reduce
the amount of data stored on the iPhone and let customers delete
hot-spot and cell-tower information by turning off location
services, Apple said. Rotenberg commended Apple for making the
changes.  Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to make
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  or other executives available
to elaborate on the statement.  Apple and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  have been at the center of a growing
debate over whether mobile-phone location technologies breach
privacy rules. The companies’ current practices, which can be
used to deliver more targeted advertising and to help users find
nearby services, have sparked consumer lawsuits and inquiries in
the  U.S. Congress .  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.
are among the companies that make phones using Google’s Android
software.  Beyond Location Data  The broader issue is that smartphones carry a tremendous
amount of information beyond just location data that consumers
aren’t aware of, said Chenxi Wang, who studies security issues
at Forrester Research.  “More and more so, that is going to be the reality,” Wang
said. “Users need to be a little bit more concerned about what
they do on their phones and what they enable and disable.”  Wang said Wi-Fi hot-spot and cell-phone tower information
doesn’t provide as accurate a read on a person’s exact
whereabouts as global-positioning coordinates would.  Apple said the use of Wi-Fi hot spots and cell-tower
locations helps the iPhone more quickly calculate its location
compared with using a global position system, which can take as
long as several minutes. The information, sent to Apple in a
form that’s unintelligible to unauthorized users, is used for
map features and to target advertising through Apple’s iAd
platform. Apple also said it’s building a crowd-sourced database
for a new a traffic service in the next couple of years.  Apple will face more questions at a U.S. congressional
hearing. The company will testify at a Senate Judiciary
Committee hearing on privacy and mobile devices on May 10,
Apple’s Kerris said.  ‘More to Come’  Apple’s statement today, its first since criticism emerged,
probably won’t immediately assuage consumers, said  Andy Hargreaves , an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities.  “There’s more to come,” said San Francisco-based
Hargreaves, who rates the shares “outperform” and doesn’t own
any. “It will take a little bit of time for them to be able to
educate consumers.”  Apple fell 27 cents to $350.15 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have climbed 8.6 percent
this year.  The privacy concerns started after an April 20 report by
two computer programmers, including a former Apple software
engineer, said Apple’s operating system logs users’ coordinates
along with the time a spot is visited. Two Apple device users
sued the company two days later, accusing Apple of invasion of
privacy and computer fraud.  Questions From Congress  This week, five Republican Congress members sent letters to
the companies with questions about how they store location data
and who can ask for it, the House Energy and Commerce Committee
said on its website.  U.S. Representative  Edward Markey , a Democrat from
 Massachusetts  who had questioned Apple about the practice, said
he was “pleased” by the changes. The company needs to answer
more questions about the use of location data for advertising,
he said.  Apple said its iAds mobile-advertising system can use a
handset’s location in directing ads to users, though it doesn’t
share location with outside companies without a user’s consent.  French, German, Italian and South Korean regulators also
are investigating the location feature, authorities in those
countries said.  Attorneys general  in Illinois and  Connecticut 
also have sought information about tracking practices.  Apple has sold more than 108 million iPhones since the
device debuted in 2007. White models of the iPhone 4, the
device’s newest iteration, will be available starting tomorrow,
the company said today in a separate statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  