-- 
Largest Dutch Banks Face ‘Too-Big-To-Fail Rules’ Before Others

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-04-27T18:29:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/largest-dutch-banks-face-too-big-to-fail-rules-before-others.html
The Netherlands’ biggest lenders
will be subject to “too-big-too fail” measures ahead of
international guidelines because of the size of the nation’s
banking industry, the country’s central bank said, following the
lead of  Switzerland , the U.K. and  Sweden .  The Dutch central bank “opts to roll out the framework to
all Dutch systematically important financial institutions at the
same time,” the Amsterdam-based institution said in a report
today, without specifying which lenders it was referring to. The
Financial Stability Board allows regulators to apply the
framework to globally systematically important banks first,
ahead of nationally relevant institutions.  The five biggest Dutch banks’ total assets make up more
than four times the country’s gross domestic product, Morgan
Stanley said in a report dated yesterday. The biggest of those
are  ING Groep NV (INGA) , Rabobank Groep and ABN Amro Group NV.  In the U.K., the top five banks have assets that are 3.45
times the national GDP under International Financial Reporting
Standards, and the biggest two Swiss lenders equal about six
times the national GDP, according to Morgan Stanley.  The Group of 20 nations agreed in November there should be
tougher rules for lenders that would threaten the wider
financial system if they collapsed, forcing them to increase
their ability to cover losses. The FSB asked the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision  to draft the global requirements for
these systemically important financial institutions, or SIFIs.  “The Dutch sector must make progress in the implementation
of the SIFI-framework by increasing capital buffers and drafting
recovery plans,” the central bank said in its biannual
financial stability report.  The FSB brings together regulators and finance ministry
officials from the Group of 20 countries, as well as standard-
setting bodies such as the Basel Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  