-- 
ARM First-Quarter Sales Gain on Smartphone, Tablet Demand

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-04-27T08:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/arm-first-quarter-revenue-climbs-26-to-116-million-pounds.html
ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , the U.K. designer
of chips that help power  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, said first-quarter
sales rose 26 percent on booming demand for smartphones and
tablet computers.  Revenue climbed to 116 million pounds ($191 million),
Cambridge, England-based ARM said in a statement today. The
average estimate of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg survey was for
111 million pounds. Full-year sales in U.S. dollars are forecast
to be “at least in line” with market estimates, ARM said.  “ARM is growing faster than we thought possible in a year
following what was a strong recovery year,” said Paul Moorland,
an analyst at Peel Hunt in  London . Moorland today raised his
recommendation to “hold” from “sell.”  ARM is seeking to broaden its range of product designs with
technology companies to take on  Intel Corp ., the world’s biggest
computer chipmaker. Semiconductors based on ARM’s designs are
used in most tablet computers, including Apple’s iPad, and the
company is also targeting the server computing market. First-
quarter net income rose 10 percent to 21.5 million pounds.  “Influential market leaders are licensing ARM technology
to gain access to a growing ecosystem of operating systems,
software applications, tools and service providers,” Chief
Executive Officer Warren East said today in the statement.  Shares dropped 1.2 percent to 616.5 pence as of 9:51 a.m.
in London trading.  Royalty Revenue  ARM’s royalty revenue gained 27 percent to $98.6 million,
representing 53 percent of total sales. The company sold 1.85
billion processor chips with its designs, the highest-ever
shipped in a quarter. The company predicts a “normal
seasonality” for royalty revenues in the second quarter.  Microsoft Corp. has said the next version of its  Windows
operating system  will run on ARM’s chip designs for the first
time. The Windows software will be tailored for battery-powered
products, such as tablets, netbooks and other handhelds,
Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft said. ARM will start
receiving royalties from the chips in about two years.  ARM is also seeking to partner with Intel rival  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  which currently doesn’t use the company’s
designs, CEO East said on a conference call today.  “AMD has signaled they are going through a rethink of
their strategy,” he said. “That’s represents a heightened
opportunity for us.”  East also said that some benefits of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software, the most popular mobile-phone operating system in new
smartphones, may disappear if the U.S. search engine allows
clients to modify the platform substantially.  “It’s not really for us but Google to determine how much
standardization they want in the marketplace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  