-- 
Harper’s Road to Canadian Majority Runs Through Once-Liberal Working Poor

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-04-27T12:27:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/harper-s-road-to-canada-majority-runs-through-once-liberal-poor.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s quest for a majority government may hinge on whether
his economic policies win the votes of a group historically
inclined to support his rivals: the urban working poor.  The 51-year-old leader has targeted about 10 suburban seats
around Toronto and Vancouver -- now held by  opposition parties  -
- he aims to swing to the governing Conservatives to move them
closer to a parliamentary majority. All 10 districts have a
greater proportion of low-income earners than the average of
other areas the Conservatives hold.  The Conservatives’ strategy is “an attempt to broaden
their appeal to voters who wouldn’t traditionally be supporters
of the party,” said Laura Stephenson, a political scientist at
the  University of Western Ontario  in  London , Ontario.  At stake in the May 2 election is leadership of the world’s
10th-largest economy, which grew at the fastest pace among Group
of Seven nations in the fourth quarter. The opposition  Liberal
Party  and  New Democratic Party  have opposed planned corporate
tax cuts worth C$6 billion ($6.3 billion) annually for
businesses such as Toronto-based  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , and plan
to spend more on health care and education.  Districts with a relatively high concentration of low-
income voters have typically been won in  past elections  by the
Liberals and New  Democratic Party . In Ontario, those two parties
held the 20 constituencies with the highest share of low-income
earners in the last Parliament.  Brink of a Majority  The Conservative held 143 of 308  seats  in the House of
Commons when the vote was called, along with 77 Liberals, 47
 Bloc Quebecois , 36  New Democrats , 2 independents and 3 vacancies.
The 10 constituencies -- called ridings -- targeted by Harper
would bring him to the brink of a majority if they elected
Conservatives next week.  Most recent polls suggest the Conservatives may struggle to
win enough new seats to form a majority. A poll conducted by
Angus Reid Public Opinion shows them with 35 percent support,
down from the 38 percent in the 2008 election. The biggest
gainers have been the New Democrats, with 30 percent, up from 18
percent in 2008. The Liberals had 22 percent support, down from
26 percent in the last election. The online poll of 2,041
Canadians was conducted April 25 and 26 and has a margin of
error of 2.2 percent, the Toronto Star reported today.  Harper, in power since 2006, has sought to reach out to
lower-income voters, largely through tax breaks. The country’s
lowest earners were the biggest income gainers between 2005 and
2008, according to  data  from  Statistics Canada , the federal
government’s statistics agency.  Targeted Policies  A page in the Conservatives’ 67-page  platform  highlights
policies for lower-income individuals over the past five years,
including a measure that gives low-income taxpayers a deduction
on employment earnings, which was introduced in 2007 and cost
the government C$1.1 billion in the last fiscal year.  Harper has raised the amount Canadians can earn without
paying federal income tax by 29 percent to C$10,527, lifted the
ceiling where taxpayers move up to a higher tax bracket, and
increased deductions for children. A monthly payment for each
child under the age of six disproportionately boosts incomes of
low-income families.  “They are attempting to make some overtures to people that
may have traditionally be more in favor of parties that propose
larger social-benefit programs,” Stephenson said. “The kind of
policy changes that you are focusing on fit very clearly with
the conservative ideological positions.”  Better ‘Family Values’  The Conservatives are giving “more than the Liberals and
NDP can give me, other than child care which I don’t use,” said
Diane Sauve, 49, a single mother from Aylmer,  Quebec  who said
she earns “well below” C$40,000 after tax as a home cleaner.  Sauve cited Harper’s monthly  child benefits  and tax credits
for children under 18 as measures that have helped boost her
income. She said the primary reason she votes for the
Conservatives is because the party has better “family values.”  In 2006, Statistics Canada  defined  a family of four as low-
income if it lived in a major urban area and its after-tax
earnings were less than C$33,216 ($34,785). The statistics
agency’s data show the poorest one-fifth of Canadians have
recorded the biggest increase in income between 2005 and 2008,
the latest year for which figures are available.  After-tax income for the lowest one-fifth of earners rose
10.7 percent in the first three years of Harper’s government,
compared with 7.4 percent for all families. Incomes for the
lowest one-fifth fell 1.5 percent the previous three years.  Losing Support  Canada’s  Liberal Party , the main rival to the Conservatives,
has slowly been losing support from low-income Canadians, giving
the Conservatives and other parties an opening to gain voters in
urban ridings where the Liberals have historically done well.  The 2008 election was the only one of the last four votes
where low-income earners were less likely to have voted for the
Liberals, according to a  paper  written by five political
scientists and presented at the annual meeting of the Canadian
Political Science Association in 2009.  Andre Blais, a professor at the Universite de Montreal and
one of the authors of that report, said measures aimed at low-
income earners may have an ulterior motive: trying to attract
visible minorities, who are defined by federal law as being
“non-Caucasian” and non-aboriginal. The 10 ridings in Toronto
and  Vancouver  targeted by the Conservatives have a 46 percent
share of visible minorities, compared with a national average of
16 percent.  “What is clear is the way the Conservative government has
been targeting visible minorities and these would tend to be
poorer,” Blais said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  