-- 
U.S. Stocks, Gold, Euro Gain as Fed Keeps Plans for Low Rates

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-04-27T20:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/asian-stocks-rise-on-growth-outlook-earnings-dollar-falls-silver-gains.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rallied to an almost three-year high and Treasuries fell as the
 Federal Reserve  renewed its pledge to stimulate growth with low
interest rates and said a pickup in inflation is likely
temporary. Gold gained and the dollar weakened versus the euro.  The  S&P 500  added 0.6 percent to 1,355.66 at 4 p.m. in New
York. The  Russell 2000 Index (RTY)  of small U.S. stocks jumped to a
record and the Nasdaq Composite Index reached a 10-year high.
The dollar lost 0.9 percent to $1.4782 against the euro, falling
for a seventh-straight day in its longest slump in two years,
and gold futures surged as much as 1.8 percent to a record
$1,530.70 an ounce. Ten-year Treasury yields rose five basis
points to 3.36 percent. Oil advanced 0.5 percent.  Stocks reversed earlier declines as Fed policy makers
agreed to finish $600 billion of bond purchases on schedule in
June and keep their benchmark interest rate at a record low for
an extended period as the economic recovery proceeds at a
“moderate pace.” The statement eased concern that central
bankers were preparing to unwind record stimulus measures in an
effort to prevent an acceleration in inflation.  “The Fed isn’t ready to press the brakes just yet,” said
 Alan Gayle , senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth Capital
Management in Richmond,  Virginia , which oversees $45 billion.
“They’re maintaining the status quo while the economy, and in
particular the consumer, gets on firmer footing. An
accommodative Fed is good for equity markets and the statement
doesn’t suggest the Fed’s anywhere close to taking steps to slow
the economy through tightening.”  ‘Extended Period’  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank’s pledge
to keep  interest rates  low for an “extended period” means he
likely will not raise borrowing costs “for a couple of
meetings.”  “Extended period suggests it would be a couple meetings,
probably, before action,” he said in his first press conference
following a policy meeting. He added that he’s unsure when
tightening would begin.  The Fed cut its 2011 economic growth forecast because of a
projected slowdown in the first quarter. The range of estimates
for growth this year was cut to 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent, from
3.4 percent to 3.9 percent in January. A measure of inflation
will rise between 2.1 percent and 2.8 percent this year before
moderating, the central bank said.  The S&P 500 yesterday climbed to the highest level of the
 bull market  that began in March 2009 for the first time since
February as higher-than-estimated profits bolstered optimism.
Per-share earnings have exceeded analysts’ estimates at 77
percent of the 197 companies in the S&P 500 that have reported
results since April 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Season  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  rose 7.9 percent to $196.63, the highest
closing price since the company went public in 1997, as the
largest online retailer’s sales topped estimates and Deutsche
Bank AG lifted its share-price estimate to $215 from $192.  General Electric Co. added 2.7 percent to lead the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  up 95.59 points, or 0.8 percent, to
12,690.96, its highest level since May 20, 2008. GE, the world’s
largest maker of  jet engines  and turbines for  power plants ,
expects to “continue to grow the dividend,” Chief Financial
Officer Keith Sherin said at the company’s annual meeting.  Corning Inc. (GLW) , the largest maker of glass for flat-panel
televisions, jumped 2.3 percent after earnings topped estimates.  Savvis Inc. (SVVS)  increased 9.1 percent after CenturyLink Inc.
agreed to buy the company for $2.5 billion to add so-called
cloud-computing services for business customers. Johnson &
Johnson agreed to buy  Synthes Inc. (SYST)  for $21.3 billion, adding
devices to treat  bone fractures  and trauma in the biggest
purchase in the company’s 125-year history. J&J gained 1
percent, while Synthes was little changed in  Switzerland .  Durable Goods  Equities started the session higher today after U.S.
durable-goods orders rose in March for a third month, advancing
2.5 percent, the Commerce Department said. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News predicted a 2.3 percent increase.  U.S. five-year yields were one basis point higher at 2.01
percent after the U.S. sold $35 billion of the notes.  The dollar weakened versus 14 of 16 major peers, losing at
least 1.2 percent versus the South African rand and Swedish
krona. The yen fell versus all 16 of its most-traded peers after
S&P cut the outlook on  Japan ’s credit rating to “negative.”  Default Swaps Drop  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default
held at the lowest level in more than a month after the Fed’s
statement. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 1.1 basis point to a
mid-price of 91.63 basis points, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The Stoxx 600 Europe Index climbed 0.3 percent as three
stocks advanced for every two that declined. Ericsson AB surged
11 percent after first-quarter profit more than tripled, and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  jumped 6 percent. Porsche SE rallied 5.9 percent
after its car-making division reported increased income.
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s third-biggest lender by assets, sank
4.8 percent after earnings missed estimates.  The pound strengthened 0.9 percent against the dollar,
erasing losses of as much as 0.3 percent after a report showed
gross domestic product expanded 0.5 percent in the first
quarter, matching the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index increased 0.2 percent as a
rally in technology stocks offset declines in  Russia ,  China  and
 India . Russia’s Micex Index sank 1.2 percent after Bank of
America Corp. reduced ratings on steel stocks. The Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index retreated for a third day, losing 0.5
percent after Wipro Ltd., India’s third-biggest software
services provider, forecast sales at its information-technology
unit that disappointed investors. The Shanghai Composite Index
sank 0.5 percent.  The cost of insuring Greek, Portuguese and Irish bonds
climbed to records, while the yield on  Greece ’s two-year notes
exceeded 25 percent for the first time amid concern the nations
will need to restructure debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  