-- 
Class Actions Limited as U.S. Supreme Court Supports AT&T

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-04-27T17:50:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/at-t-unit-wins-arbitration-case-at-u-s-supreme-court.html
A divided U.S. Supreme Court
bolstered the ability of businesses to channel customer and
employee complaints into arbitration, ruling that companies can
block people from pressing those claims as a group.  Voting 5-4 along ideological lines, the court  said  an  AT&T
Inc. (T)  unit can enforce a contract provision that requires its
wireless customers to press any claims individually in
arbitration. The majority said a U.S. arbitration statute trumps
a California law that would have invalidated the provision.  The case may affect tens of millions of arbitration
agreements in California alone, including provisions in
employment agreements, consumer loan applications and cable-
television contracts. The ruling will also help companies in at
least 18 states where companies now are restricted or barred
from requiring consumers to accept class-action bans.  “It changes the law completely” in those states, said
Alan Kaplinsky, chairman of the consumer financial services
practice at Ballard Spahr LLP in Philadelphia.  Justice  Antonin Scalia  said in his majority opinion that
class actions would interfere with “fundamental attributes of
arbitration,” including its streamlined nature.  “The switch from bilateral to class arbitration sacrifices
the principal advantage of arbitration -- its informality -- and
makes the process slower, more costly and more likely to
generate procedural morass than final judgment,” Scalia wrote.  Customer Complaint  The fight stemmed from a complaint against AT&T Mobility
LLC by Vincent and Liza Concepcion, who say they were improperly
charged about $30 in  sales tax  on a mobile phone AT&T advertised
as free. A federal appeals court said the class-action ban in
their agreement with AT&T was “unconscionable” under
California law.  The  Supreme Court  said the state law ran afoul of the 1925
Federal Arbitration Act, which says courts must enforce
arbitration accords the same as any other contract.  The high court “dealt a crushing blow to American
consumers and employees,” said  Deepak Gupta , Concepcions’
Supreme Court lawyer.  “Now, whenever you sign a contract to get a cell phone,
open a bank account or take a job, you may be giving up your
right to hold companies accountable for fraud, discrimination or
other illegal practices,” said Gupta, a lawyer with Public
Citizen, a consumer-advocacy group.  ‘Victory for Consumers’  “This is a victory for consumers,” AT&T said in a
statement. “The court recognized that arbitration often
benefits consumers.”  The company said that its arbitration program is “free,
fair, fast, easy to use and consumer-friendly.” Under its
program, the company must pay a minimum of $7,500 if the
arbitrator issues an award greater than AT&T’s last settlement
offer.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Earthlink Inc. (ELNK) ,  DirecTV (DTV)  Inc.,  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce all filed
briefs supporting AT&T.  The justices divided over the reach of the federal
arbitration law. Scalia said earlier high court rulings “place
it beyond dispute that the FAA was designed to promote
arbitration.”  Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Clarence Thomas,
Anthony Kennedy and  Samuel Alito  joined Scalia in the majority.
Thomas, a states-rights advocate in other contexts, said he
joined the lead opinion “reluctantly” and would have preferred
a greater focus on the federal statute’s language.  Arbitration Benefits  The court’s four Democratic appointees -- Justices Stephen Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan  --
dissented. Breyer said  California ’s law was “of no federal
concern so long as the state does not adopt a special rule that
disfavors arbitration.”  Scalia spent much of his 18-page opinion making the case
that class actions would undermine the benefits of arbitration.
He said class arbitration “greatly increases risks to
defendants” because it involves less rigorous appellate review
than traditional litigation.  “Arbitration is poorly suited to the higher stakes of
class litigation,” Scalia wrote.  Breyer said class arbitration was more efficient than a
traditional court class action. “And a single class proceeding
is surely more efficient than thousands of separate proceedings
for identical claims,” he wrote.  Breyer raised the prospect that many customers won’t press
claims if forced to do so individually. “What rational lawyer
would have signed on to represent the Concepcions in litigation
for the possibility of fees stemming from a $30.22 claim?” he
asked.  Increase Predicted  The ruling probably will mean that more companies will
require workers to go to arbitration and to press claims there
as individuals, said Gupta, the Concepcions’ lawyer.  “They’re increasingly common, and I hate to say this, but
they’re going to be much more common now,” Gupta said.  Already, so-called class action waivers are ubiquitous in
consumer arbitration agreements, said Kaplinsky, who began
drafting that type of provision for corporate clients a decade
ago.  “If you were to find a consumer arbitration agreement
today that didn’t have a class action waiver, it would be
shocking,” Kaplinsky said. “Just about all of them have that
language.”  The case is AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion, 09-893.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 