-- 
Athens Mayor Takes On Protest Voters to Reclaim City’s Streets

-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 
2011-04-27T07:11:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/athens-mayor-takes-on-protest-voters-to-reclaim-city-s-streets.html
George Kaminis is trying to reclaim
the streets of  Athens  from protesters who elected him mayor in
November. He scored his first victory this month when workers
demanding permanent jobs ended a 25-day occupation of city hall.  The demonstrators kept the New York-born lawyer out of the
building on March 28, forcing the municipal council to pass
Athens’s 899 million-euro ($1.3 billion) 2011 budget at a nearby
hotel. Kaminis, 56, held two other meetings at alternative sites
during the sit-in.  His refusal to allow picketers to stop policymaking shows
the mayor’s resolve to restore normalcy in a city crippled by
work stoppages and voted  Europe ’s most unlivable in 2010 by the
 Mercer  consulting firm. The municipal employees ended the
protest April 15 after the  Supreme Court  ruled in favor of
employees at gambling company  Opap SA. (OPAP)  The court decision may
act as a precedent for pending cases.  “Blackmail, threats and violence have no place in
democracy,” Kaminis said at an April 11 council meeting held at
the offices of Athens’s local radio station, according to a
statement posted on the municipality’s website. He made the
comments as police and demonstrators clashed outside.  The country’s public and private sector unions have called
for a nationwide strike on May 11 in response to the latest
austerity measures backed by Prime Minister  George Papandreou .  “Of course I worry about it,” Kaminis said in an April 6
interview at his office in central  Athens .  Greece depends on the city of 750,000 people, part of a
greater metropolitan area of 3.7 million, for almost half of its
gross domestic product, according to Moody’s Investors Service.
Moody’s downgraded Athens’s issuer rating on March 8 to B1 from
Ba1 with a negative outlook.  Rising Unemployment  Commercial property vacancies in downtown Athens have
climbed to 23 percent from 17 percent since August, according to
a study by the National Confederation of Commerce. As national
unemployment reached a record 15.1 percent in January, the
jobless rate in Athens rose to 14.6 percent from 10.7 percent in
the same month a year earlier.  “This city is in a very big crisis,” Kaminis said. With
businesses closing and Athenians fleeing to quieter suburbs
because of the unrest, “both our sources of revenue have gone
down,” he said.  Almost 500 demonstrations took place on the city’s streets
during 2010, according to police estimates. Three bank employees
died in a fire set by anarchists in central Athens last May
during a series of general strikes called against Papandreou’s
latest austerity measures.  Sorbonne Education  Kaminis was born in  New York  where his father worked for
the Livanos shipping company. The family moved to Greece when he
was 5. He graduated with a law degree from the University of
Athens and attended the Sorbonne in Paris, where he wrote his
thesis on the transition from dictatorship to democracy in
Greece and  Spain  during the 1970s.  Kaminis became mayor with the backing of Papandreou’s
Pasok socialist party in November after more than two decades of
conservative rule. As an ombudsman, he earned the respect of
Papandreou, who invited Kaminis to address the prime minister’s
first meeting of Cabinet in October 2009.  City hall “has a key role to play” to make Athens “a
modern and competitive city,” said Constantine Michalos, the
head of the  Athens Chamber of Commerce and Industry , in an e-
mailed response to questions. “It is a critical part of the
national effort to revive the economy.”  Illegal Trade  Athens relies on the Greek state for about 20 percent of
its budget, down from 37 percent in 2009, according to estimates
by the city and Moody’s. The remainder of its funding comes from
local levies and fees, both of which have dropped with the
nation mired in its third year of recession.  Moody’s , in its March downgrade, cited the possibility of
reductions in government transfers as a consequence of the
weakening economy, and the “high level of integration” between
the city’s economic base and the national economy.  The mayor is tasked with having to stamp out demonstrations
and illegal street trade, which results in 6 billion euros of
lost taxes each year, Michalos said.  Sprider Stores SA (SPRDER)  had its flagship clothing outlet in
central Athens completely destroyed by fire during riots in
December 2008, which occurred after a 15-year old boy was shot
and killed by Greek police.  “The city center has to stop being at the mercy of the
demonstrators,” said Sprider Chairman Athanasios Hatzioannou in
an email.  Tourist Flows  Revenue for hotels in the Athens metropolitan area fell by
62 million euros in 2010, according to figures from the  Athens
Hotel Association . Tourism, Greece’s largest industry, accounts
for almost 16 percent of the country’s GDP, according to the
London-based  World Travel and Tourism Council .  Visits to the Acropolis, the city’s most famous landmark,
dropped 16 percent in 2010, according to the  Hellenic
Statistical Authority . In October, culture ministry workers
demanding permanent positions blocked the entrance to the
Acropolis for three days and clashed with police.  Keeping Athens free of constant protests is essential to
persuade visitors to come back to the city, said Tim Ananiadis,
general manager of the  Grand Bretagne Hotel , the luxury hotel
opposite  Greece ’s Parliament House that is frequently attacked
by demonstrators.  With the economy set to shrink again this year, Kaminis
says he plans to cut waste and duplication at city hall and is
looking for help from European Union funds to finance city
investments.  “We can no longer depend on the money we get from the
central government, or even from the local taxes,” Kaminis said.
“The objective is to bring money to the city.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  