-- 
Australian Dollar Strengthens to Record After Inflation Data; Kiwi Gains

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-04-27T06:18:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/aussie-dollar-climbs-to-record-after-cpi-report-kiwi-gains-on-confidence.html
The Australian dollar strengthened
to a record after a government report showed consumer prices
increased by the most in five years, giving the central bank
more reason to raise  interest rates .  New Zealand ’s dollar earlier advanced to a three-year high
against the U.S. currency as an industry survey showed business
confidence climbed in April. The South Pacific nations’
currencies were also bolstered on speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will keep borrowing costs near zero at the end of policy
meeting today, prompting investors to seek higher-yield assets.  “In the short-term I expect more appreciation” of the
Australian dollar, said Adarsh Sinha, head of strategy for Group
of 10 foreign exchange at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  Hong
Kong . “Given that the market doesn’t have much rate rises
priced in at least for the next few months, the CPI data is
going to have an impact on the short-term curve.”  Australia ’s dollar climbed to $1.0833 as of 4:03 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0785 in  New York  yesterday, after rising to
$1.0852, the strongest since it was freely floated in 1983. The
so-called Aussie gained 0.6 percent to 88.46 yen. New Zealand’s
dollar traded at 80.59 U.S. cents from 80.57 cents, after
reaching 81.08, the highest since March 2008. The currency
appreciated 0.2 percent to 65.83 yen.  Consumer prices in Australia gained 1.6 percent last
quarter from the previous three months, the biggest jump since
2006, the  Bureau of Statistics  said in Sydney. Producer prices
rose 1.2 percent in the January-March period from the prior
three months, the statistics bureau said April 21.  Rate Outlook  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will raise its benchmark rate
by 26 basis points in the next 12 months, according to a Credit
Suisse Group AG index based on swaps. That compares with a
prediction of 21 basis points yesterday.  The Fed will leave its target rate for overnight lending
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent at the conclusion of a
two-day meeting today, according to all 83 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  “Increasing prices will likely boost market expectations
that the RBA will raise interest rates, leading to buying of the
Aussie,” said Toshiya Yamauchi, a senior currency analyst in
Tokyo at Ueda Harlow Ltd., which provides foreign-exchange
margin-trading services. “The higher-yielding currencies are
also being bought on the back of the dollar weakness because of
the Fed’s loose policy.”  Australia’s dollar will next target $1.10, Yamauchi said.  Higher Forecasts  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  raised its forecast for the
Australian dollar, saying the currency will retain its interest-
rate advantage over the greenback.  The Aussie will reach $1.12 by the end of September, before
declining to $1.04 at year-end,  Richard Grace , chief currency
strategist for the Sydney-based bank, wrote today in a note to
clients. Commonwealth Bank previously forecast the currency
would weaken to 94 U.S. cents by Sept. 30.  Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and
2.5 percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and  Japan , attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets.  New Zealand’s dollar gained for a second day versus the yen
after ANZ National Bank Ltd. said a net 29.5 percent of
companies it surveyed said sales and profits would rise over the
next 12 months, compared with 14.7 percent expecting an increase
in March.  The kiwi was also boosted after Fonterra Cooperative Group
Ltd. said dairy export volumes climbed to a record last month
due to surging demand in  Asia  and the Middle East.  The  New Zealand dollar  has appreciated 3.2 percent in the
past month, the best performer among the 10 most-widely traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes. The Australian dollar has risen 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 