-- 
Australian Consumer Prices Jump Most Since 2006; Currency Gains to Record

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-04-27T03:19:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/australian-consumer-prices-advance-1-6-most-since-2006-1-.html
Australian consumer prices gained
the most in five years last quarter, driving the nation’s
currency to a record on bets the central bank will resume
raising  interest rates .  The  consumer price index  rose 1.6 percent from the previous
three months, the biggest jump since 2006 and higher than the
forecasts of all 26 economists in a Bloomberg survey, the  Bureau
of Statistics  said in Sydney today. The increase was led by food
prices driven up by a cyclone and floods in Queensland state,
and costlier fuel bills.  The report propelled  Australia ’s currency to the highest
level since it was freely floated in 1983 as measures that strip
out volatile prices such as food and energy exceeded forecasts.
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has held rates at 4.75 percent
for the past four meetings to help Queensland’s economy recover
from damage and destruction to mines and crops.  “Even in the absence of flood distortions, core inflation
spiked higher and arguments suggesting today’s result is a one-
off have no merit,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist at ICAP
Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “With an unemployment rate of 4.9
percent, the RBA needs to remember its mandate and hike rates.”  Australia’s dollar touched a record $1.0852 after the
report, before trading at $1.0825 at 1:17 p.m. in Sydney. It has
climbed 18 percent in the past 12 months, the third-best
performer among the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Cheaper Furniture  The gains helped constrain some prices last quarter, with
today’s report showing declines in the costs of furniture,
computing equipment and overseas travel.  The quarterly advance exceeded the 1.2 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 26 economists as costs for
automotive fuel jumped 8.8 percent, vegetables soared 16
percent, fruit advanced 14.5 percent and pharmaceuticals were up
12.5 percent.  The RBA said in minutes of its April 5 meeting that it
would “look through” higher inflation and slower growth
stemming from the natural disasters.  From a year earlier, prices were 3.3 percent higher, the
biggest annual increase since the last quarter of 2008, the
report showed.  The RBA’s favored inflation measures, which exclude the
largest price increases and declines, were also published today.  Core inflation , as measured by the central bank’s so-called
trimmed mean gauge, rose 0.9 percent from the previous quarter
and 2.3 percent from a year earlier. Economists forecast a
quarter-to-quarter gain of 0.7 percent and an annual advance of
2.1 percent.  RBA Measures  The weighted-median gauge of inflation climbed 0.8 percent
in the first quarter from the final three months of 2010, for an
annual increase of 2.2 percent. Economists forecast a quarterly
rise of 0.6 percent and an annual increase of 2.1 percent.  “The sharper-than-expected jump in core prices highlights
why the central bank needs to remain vigilant on inflation,”
said Matthew Circosta, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in
Sydney. “A rate hike in the coming months cannot be ruled
out.”  Traders see a 64 percent chance the central bank will boost
borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to 5 percent this
year, up from 42 percent yesterday, Bloomberg calculations based
on interbank futures on the  Sydney Futures Exchange  showed.  Rains in Queensland during December and January have
compounded concerns about labor shortages as an area the size of
 Egypt  was declared a disaster zone, including parts of the state
capital, Brisbane.  Labor Shortage  Finding skilled labor for reconstruction in Queensland,
plus the flood-damaged eastern states of Victoria and New South
Wales, may become more difficult. A mining boom, to feed  China ’s
demand for raw materials, has caused a worker shortage at a time
when the jobless rate is at the lowest level in two years.  “This summer’s disasters haven’t knocked our economy off
course,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in a televised press
conference today in Canberra. “The government will continue its
task of building the economy’s capacity so we can have
sustainable growth with low inflation into the future.”  Two coal-seam gas projects, expected to cost more than A$30
billion ($32.5 billion), are proceeding near the Queensland port
of Gladstone.  Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-largest oil
producer, and BG Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest gas
producer, will start hiring the first of more than 10,000
construction workers needed for the two projects later this
year.  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens boosted the benchmark lending
rate by 175 basis points from early October 2009 to November
last year, from a half-century low of 3 percent. Stevens and his
board aim to keep inflation in a range of 2 percent to 3 percent
on average. The RBA meets next week to set interest-rate policy.  Australia’s economic growth accelerated in the final three
months of last year, the eighth straight quarterly expansion,
before the floods and cyclones ravaged the nation’s northeast.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 heath1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  