-- 
AvalonBay Funds From Operations Climb as Landlord Boosts Apartment Rents

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-04-27T20:32:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/avalonbay-funds-from-operations-climb-as-landlord-boosts-apartment-rents.html
AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB) , the
second-largest publicly traded U.S. apartment owner, said first-
quarter funds from operations climbed as rising demand helped
the landlord increase rents.  FFO rose to $93.5 million, or $1.08 a share, from $79.3
million, or 96 cents, a year earlier, the Alexandria, Virginia-
based real estate investment trust said in a statement today.
Analysts projected $1.05 a share, the average of 20 estimates in
a Bloomberg survey. FFO is a measure of  cash flow  used by REITs.  “It’s higher rents and it’s contributions from development
projects that are coming on line,” Haendel St. Juste, a New
York-based REIT analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc., said in
an interview before the report. “You’re not only full, or close
to full, but you’re full enough to be pushing rent increases.”  Landlords have been able to boost leasing rates as home
ownership sits at a 13-year low and an improving economy spurs
more people to move out of shared residences. U.S. apartment
rents climbed almost 4.7 percent in the 12 months through
February, the biggest increase since the third quarter of 2006,
according to  Axiometrics Inc. , a Dallas-based research company.  U.S. apartment vacancies dropped to the lowest in almost
three years in the first quarter as a weak homebuying market
fueled rental demand, property-research firm  Reis Inc.  said on
April 6. The vacancy rate declined to 6.2 percent from 8 percent
a year earlier.  New Communities  AvalonBay completed development on three communities in
2010, totaling about 1,260 apartments, according to a  regulatory
filing . Avalon Fort Greene, a 631-unit building in New York’s
Brooklyn borough that was completed in the fourth quarter, was
90 percent occupied as of Dec. 31.  Avalon Walnut Creek , a 418-
apartment complex completed last quarter near Oakland,
 California , was 73 percent full, the company said.  “Now is a very good time to be delivering apartment
product,” said St. Juste, who has an “outperform” rating on
AvalonBay. “Between this year and next year the number of
apartments taken out of service will be more than what will be
added to the marketplace.”  AvalonBay started work on about $667 million in new
developments in 2010, the company said in a March  presentation .
St. Juste estimates that the REIT will end 2011 with $1.5
billion in projects under development, according to a February
report.  2011 Forecast  The company expects to meet or exceed the high end of its
earlier forecast for 2011 funds from operations, according to
today’s statement. In February, AvalonBay predicted full-year
FFO of $4.50 to $4.75 a share, compared with $4 in 2010.  “Our operating results reflect strengthening apartment
fundamentals that accelerated during the quarter,” Chief
Executive Officer Bryce Blair said in the statement. “Job
growth, particularly among young workers, is driving higher
rental demand while new supply remains muted. We expect
fundamentals will continue to accelerate during the year.”  Funds from operations excludes depreciation and gains or
losses from property sales, among other items. The measure
doesn’t conform to generally accepted accounting principles.  AvalonBay reported earnings after the close of regular U.S.
trading. The shares rose 79 cents to $126.63 as of 4:15 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. They climbed 28
percent in the past 12 months, compared with the 30 percent
advance in the Bloomberg REIT Apartment Index of 13 companies.  (AvalonBay will hold a conference call tomorrow at 1 p.m.
New York time. Dial 1-877-510-2397 or go to
 http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  