-- 
Baidu Profit, Sales Forecast Beat Estimates as Ad Sales Jump

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-04-27T23:19:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/baidu-profit-sales-forecast-beat-estimates-as-ad-sales-jump.html
Baidu Inc., operator of  China ’s
most popular search engine, reported first-quarter profit and
issued a sales forecast for the current period that topped
analysts’ predictions after advertising fees surged.  Net income climbed to 1.07 billion yuan ($164.4 million),
or 3.06 yuan per American depositary receipt, compared with
480.5 million yuan, or 1.38 yuan, a year earlier, Baidu said
today in a statement. That exceeded the 1.02 billion yuan
average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Second-quarter sales will be 3.23 billion to 3.3 billion
yuan, Baidu said. That tops the 3.14 billion yuan projected by
analysts.  Baidu hired more workers to boost its search business, and
expand into new services, including social media and electronic
commerce. The stock has more than tripled since  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
announced plans in January 2010 to pull its search engine out of
China. The increase helped make Baidu Chief Executive Officer
Robin Li the nation’s richest man, according to Forbes magazine.  “The search-engine business for them in the past 12 months
has been very strong, and that will continue to drive their
numbers and their share price in the near term,” Lai Voon San,
who has a “buy” rating on Baidu at MF Global Hong Kong Ltd.,
said before the earnings were released.  Baidu’s ADRs fell less than one percent on Nasdaq Stock
Market trading today before the earnings announcement. The stock
has gained 57 percent this year, compared with the 88 percent
gain in Sina Corp., owner of China’s most popular microblogging
service, and a 29 percent increase in  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,
operator of the most popular Chinese online-chat software.  First-Quarter Sales  Sales during the first quarter were 2.44 billion yuan,
compared with 1.29 billion yuan a year earlier, Baidu said.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
accounted for 19.2 percent of China’s search market by revenue
in the first-quarter, declining from 19.6 percent three months
earlier, according to research company Analysys International.
Baidu’s market share rose to 75.8 percent from 75.5 percent,
according to Analysys.  Google has been losing share in China’s search-engine
market since the  Mountain View , California-based company said it
was no longer willing to comply with Chinese regulations to
self-censor Web content. Two months later, the U.S. company shut
its Google.cn service and redirected Chinese users to an
unfiltered site in  Hong Kong .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  