-- 
Bank of America Picks John Thiel to Lead Merrill Lynch Brokerage Operation

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-04-28T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/bank-of-america-s-krawcheck-selects-thiel-to-lead-merrill-lynch-brokerage.html
Sallie Krawcheck , president of  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ’s wealth-management division, picked John Thiel
to replace Lyle LaMothe as head of the firm’s Merrill Lynch
brokerage, according to a memo.  Thiel, who runs the firm’s private banking and investment
group, will gain responsibility for the 15,500-person brokerage
as head of Merrill Lynch U.S. Wealth Management starting May 1,
according to an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News.
LaMothe said March 4 he’s retiring from the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank to pursue personal interests.  Krawcheck’s selection of a Merrill Lynch veteran may
solidify her relationship with top members of the brokerage,
known as the “Thundering Herd” because of the firm’s bull
logo. Thiel, 50, started at Merrill as a financial adviser in
Tampa,  Florida , in 1989 and held several management jobs before
leading the private bank. Krawcheck, 46, joined Bank of America
from New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in August 2009.  “John possesses deep wealth-management and Merrill Lynch
experience and has a strong commitment to our advisers, our
clients and our culture,” Krawcheck said in the memo, which was
circulated yesterday.  The brokerage is the biggest contributor to Krawcheck’s
operation. Almost 80 percent of the division’s $16.7 billion in
2010 revenue came from the adviser group. The unit posted a 4
percent revenue increase last year to $13.1 billion, or about
$854,000 per adviser. Thiel’s unit posted faster revenue growth:
an increase of 8.5 percent in 2010 as deposit balances surged 45
percent.  Merrill Lynch Roots  The search for LaMothe’s successor focused on managers with
roots at Merrill Lynch, two people with knowledge of the process
said last month. LaMothe joined Merrill in 1987 as a financial
adviser in San Bernardino,  California , and held several
supervisory jobs before being promoted to head of U.S. wealth
management in 2009. Merrill Lynch was taken over by Bank of
America at the start of 2009 after subprime-related losses
weakened the firm’s capital.  Thiel joined Merrill’s private-banking and investment
group, which caters to the wealthiest individuals, in 2000 and
opened the firm’s Pacific West department as a regional director
based in  San Francisco . The private-banking unit has more than
$160 billion in assets, according to the memo.  He won the appointment over Andrew Sieg, who runs the
division’s retirement services operations. Sieg joined Merrill
Lynch in 1992 as an analyst in the firm’s private-client group,
and at one point reported to Krawcheck while both were at
Citigroup. He was hired to join Bank of America in 2009.  Krawcheck told investors last month that her long-term
target for revenue growth in the wealth-management division is 6
percent to 7 percent per year. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  has said he expects the unit will help fuel growth at
Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender by assets and deposits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 