-- 
Barclays Capital Profit Drops by 33% in ‘Challenging’ Market

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-04-27T11:18:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/barclays-profit-slips-to-1-67-billion-as-investment-bank-revenue-slides.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s third-
largest bank by assets, said pretax profit at its  Barclays
Capital  investment banking unit declined by 33 percent after
revenue from fixed income, currencies and commodities trading
fell in a “challenging” market.  The unit, run by Jerry Del Missier and  Rich Ricci , reported
a 15 percent drop in revenue to 3.28 billion pounds ($5.43
billion) in the three months to March 31 against the same period
last year, while pretax profit fell by a third to 982 million
pounds, the London-based company said in a statement today. The
shares dropped the most in eight months in London trading.  “Barclays Capital was clearly disappointing,” in terms of
top-line revenue, said Cormac Leech, an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity Ltd. in London, who has a “buy” rating on the stock.
“Expect Barclays to underperform today.”  Barclays cut its return-on-equity target in February to 13
percent as higher  capital requirements  from regulators eroded
profitability, and warned today that costs may rise as a result
of proposals from the  U.K. banking commission . UBS AG and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest banks, this week posted
declines in net income for the first quarter as investment
banking revenue slowed.  Barclays Capital had accounting losses of 351 million
pounds on the value of its own debt compared with 102 million
pounds in the year-earlier period. Revenue from fixed income,
currency and commodities trading fell 22 percent to 2.11 billion
pounds. Equities and prime services revenue rose 11 percent to
545 million pounds, the bank said. Compensation costs were 44
percent of revenue, compared with 43 percent for 2010.  Operations Review  Barclays declined 5.1 percent to 286.6 pence at 12:13 p.m.,
the biggest decline in the 48-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index.  “With modest disappointment on Barcap revenues, today’s
numbers will underwhelm,” wrote  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Exane
BNP Paribas in a note to investors today.  Net income for the entire bank was 5 percent lower at 1.01
billion pounds than the 1.07 billion pounds posted in the same
period of 2010. Analysts estimated the lender would post a
profit of 1.21 billion pounds, according to four surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The bank made a good start this year “in a challenging
external environment,” Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond 
said in the statement. “We remain content with the current
consensus for 2011,” the bank said.  Protium Consolidated  Barclays will consolidate $10.2 billion of debt managed by
Protium Finance LP into its accounts. Barclays sold the debt in
2009 to Protium, a fund run by former Barclays executives, to
reduce losses linked to credit market volatility. The bank today
posted a 190 million-pound write-back on a loan to Protium.  Analysts estimate pretax profit of 6.94 billion pounds for
2011, according to the Barclays  website .  Diamond is reviewing the bank’s operations and may sell or
close some of the third of its operations that don’t generate
sufficient returns.  Loan impairment provisions fell 39 percent to 921 million
pounds compared with the same period a year earlier.  Pretax profit from Barclays’s consumer and business banking
unit rose 21 percent to 692 million pounds as earnings from
Barclaycard more than doubled and bad debt provisions fell.  Changes that may be introduced by the U.K.’s  Independent
Commission on Banking  may increase costs for shareholders,
Diamond told shareholders at the bank’ annual meeting in  London 
today.  ‘Fuller Picture’  “When we have a fuller picture, we will be able to assess
their proposals in relation to the costs they add,” he said.  The government-sponsored commission recommended this month
that the U.K.’s biggest banks should boost capital, implement
plans for an orderly bankruptcy and erect fire breaks around
their consumer units to boost the stability of the financial
system. RBS CEO Stephen Hester said last week that creating fire
breaks around lenders’ retail units won’t make them safer.
Libor Confirmation  Barclays also confirmed it is being investigated by U.K.
and U.S. regulators into the setting of the daily London
interbank offered rate.  Regulators “are conducting investigations relating to
certain past submissions made by Barclays to the British
Bankers’ Association, which sets Libor rates,” Barclays said in
the statement. “We are cooperating with the investigations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  