-- 
Belarus to Lift Currency Restrictions in ‘Shortest Time Frame’

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 
2011-04-27T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/belarus-to-lift-currency-restrictions-in-shortest-time-frame-.html
Belarus, where the ruble fell 40
percent against the dollar last week, plans to unify exchange
rates next month and lift currency restrictions “in the shortest
time frame,” Economy Minister Nikolai Snopkov said.  Doing away with multiple exchange rates may lead the
currency to weaken beyond its “fair” value of about 3,800 per
dollar, Snopkov said on April 26 in an e-mailed reply to
questions. The country doesn’t need to restructure its foreign
debt this year, he added.  “After unifying the exchange rates, the  currency market 
will be able function as before,” Snopkov said. “Belarus started
to take steps to restructure the economy before problems emerged
on the internal currency market. Perhaps we somewhat delayed
these reforms.”  The former Soviet republic, which is seeking a $3 billion
bailout led by  Russia , is working to overcome a currency
shortage that led to the ruble’s plunge after the central bank
lifted some restrictions for interbank trading on April 19.
Lenders including Belarusbank, the nation’s largest, stopped
selling foreign currency to customers.  Belagroprombank, the country’s second-largest lender,
traded the ruble at 5,100 per dollar on the  interbank market  on
April 20. The central bank a day earlier lifted restrictions
that prevented banks from deviating more than 10 percent from
the official  exchange rate . That compares with the 3,033 per
dollar official rate set by the central bank for today.  Sales to citizens and outside the interbank market aren’t
allowed to deviate by more than 2 percent from the official
rate.  Current-Account Deficit  The country allowed the ruble to depreciate as part of a
strategy to reduce the current-account deficit, the widest
measure of money flowing in and out of a country, from 15.6
percent of gross domestic product last year.  The yield on the country’s 8.95 percent dollar bond due in
2018 rose to 10.913 percent yesterday from 9.05 percent on Jan.
20, its first day of trading.  S&P on March 15 cut its rating for the country’s sovereign
debt by one step to B, five levels below investment grade and
the company’s lowest in  Europe . The reduction put Belarus on par
with Benin, Bolivia and Cameroon.  The government has relied on foreign borrowing to replenish
reserves, selling its debut dollar bonds last year. The country
has more than $2 billion of ruble and dollar debt outstanding,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Belarus is seeking a $3
billion bailout loan from Russia and former Soviet partners.  ‘External Vulnerability’  Foreign reserves slumped to a 1 1/2-year low last month as
Belarusians fearing a devaluation of the currency sought to move
their savings out of rubles. S&P cited the country’s increased
“external vulnerability, stemming from high imbalances and a
decline in reserve assets” for its rating downgrade last month.  “At this point, I don’t see the need to force negotiations
on restructuring our debt,” Snopkov said.  Policy makers permitted “unsustainable” stimulus
programs, spurring a 38 percent jump in lending last year and
boosting public-sector salaries by about 50 percent, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in a March 9  report .  The crisis resulted from the “economy overheating under a
loose monetary policy,” Snopkov said. “Undoubtedly the
difficulties will be overcome.”  A weaker currency may allow the nation to narrow the trade
deficit, a component of the current account, to between 5
percent and 6 percent this year from 13.6 percent in 2010,
Snopkov said. The government also expects to lure foreign
capital with a state-asset sale program, he said.  Russia may agree to provide financial assistance to the
country in two weeks to three weeks, Andrei Bokarev, head of the
Russian Finance Ministry’s department for international
financial relations, said on April 26.  Belarus would have to accept conditions and implement a
program to help cope with its current-account gap in the “mid-
term, Bokarev said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ; 