-- 
Bernanke Says Fed to Keep Stimulus, Further Easing Unlikely

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-04-27T23:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/bernanke-says-fed-will-maintain-record-stimulus-program-monitor-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the Fed will maintain its record monetary
stimulus after ending large-scale bond purchases in June, while
the need to contain inflation means further easing is unlikely.  “It’s not clear that we can get substantial improvements
in payrolls without some additional inflation risk,” Bernanke
said at his first press conference following a meeting of the
 Federal Open Market Committee . “Ultimately, if -- if inflation
persists or if inflation expectations begin to move, then
there’s no substitute for action,” Bernanke said. “We would
have to respond.”  Stocks extended gains, the dollar weakened and Treasuries
fell after Bernanke reinforced the view of the FOMC, which
released its policy statement today, that borrowing costs are
likely to stay low for “an extended period.” The panel agreed
to finish $600 billion of Treasury purchases in June and said
surging commodity prices will probably have a transitory effect
on inflation.  Bernanke said the Fed would initially hold its balance
sheet steady after completing the purchases. “We are going to
continue to reinvest maturing securities, both Treasuries and
MBS, so the amount of securities that we hold will remain”
approximately constant, he said, referring to mortgage-backed
securities. “The amount of monetary policy easing should remain
constant going forward from June.”  Stocks, Dollar  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.6 percent to
1,355.66 in  New York  after falling as much as 0.2 percent before
the Fed’s statement. The dollar weakened to $1.4788 per euro,
falling for a seventh-straight day in its longest slump in two
years. Gold for June delivery advanced as much as 1.8 percent to
a record $1,530.70 an ounce. Ten-year Treasury yields rose five
basis points to 3.36 percent.  “Bernanke and others are providing clear signals that no
additional easing is coming, but that they’re not prepared to
start tightening anytime soon,” said  Paul Ballew , a former Fed
economist and senior vice president at Nationwide Mutual
Insurance Co. in Columbus,  Ohio .  The Fed left its benchmark interest rate in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008.  Bernanke said that when the Fed makes the “extended
period” pledge it means there will likely be no tightening of
policy “for a couple of meetings, probably, before action.”  “Unfortunately, the reason we use this vaguer terminology
is that we don’t know with certainty how quickly response will
be required,” he said.  Record Stimulus  When the Fed begins unwinding its record monetary stimulus,
“it’s very likely that an early step would be to stop
reinvesting all or part of the securities which are maturing,”
he said. “That step, though a relatively modest step, does
constitute a policy tightening,” Bernanke said.  Policy makers, in a release after the statement, lowered
their forecasts for economic growth this year and raised
estimates for a key gauge of inflation that excludes volatile
food and energy prices. The projections of governors and
regional bank presidents were released three weeks sooner than
prior practice.  The range of estimates for growth this year was cut to 3.1
percent to 3.3 percent, from 3.4 percent to 3.9 percent in
January. Estimates for the personal consumption expenditures
index, minus food and energy, ranged from 1.3 percent to 1.6
percent, up from a prior range of 1 percent to 1.3 percent.  Unemployment Forecasts  Fed officials’ central tendency forecast for the average
 unemployment rate  in the final three months of 2011 fell to 8.4
percent to 8.7 percent versus 8.8 percent to 9.0 percent in
January. Their estimate for unemployment at the end of 2012 was
in a range of 7.6 percent to 7.9 percent versus 7.6 percent to
8.1 percent in January.  “The labor market is improving gradually,” Bernanke said
at the press conference. “The longer it goes on, the more
confident we are.”  “We are digging ourselves out of a deep hole,” Bernanke
said, referring to the jobs lost during the recession.  The Fed’s commitment to record stimulus contrasts with the
interest-rate increase this month by the  European Central Bank 
and tightening this year by the biggest emerging-market
economies, including  China ,  Brazil  and  India , which face faster
inflation.  First Briefings  Bernanke became the first Fed chairman to conduct a press
briefing following an FOMC decision when he took the microphone
at the Fed’s headquarters. His counterparts in  Europe ,  Japan ,
the U.K. and Canada already hold regular news conferences.  The press conference, broadcast on television and the
central bank’s website, marks one of Bernanke’s biggest efforts
to improve the Fed’s connections with the public and demystify
the institution, which as recently as 1993 didn’t announce its
monetary-policy decisions. Bernanke said in February that the
central bank was weighing benefits of more transparency against
the risk that his remarks would trigger unwanted fluctuations in
financial markets.  Increases in employment and inflation are helping drive
calls to tighten credit. Payrolls have increased by an average
149,000 a month for the past six months, while the unemployment
rate has dropped by 1 percentage point since November to 8.8
percent, a two-year low.  Beverage Prices  Food and beverage prices rose in the first quarter by the
most since 2008, based on the Labor Department’s Consumer Price
Index, while the cost of regular-unleaded gasoline has increased
by 26 percent this year to $3.88 a gallon as of yesterday.  The increases helped slow U.S. growth to a 2 percent pace
in the first quarter, according to the median estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News, from 3.1 percent in the
prior period. The government releases preliminary figures
tomorrow.  Bernanke said policy makers believe the reasons behind a
slowdown during the first quarter do not appear to be long-
lasting. “I would say roughly most of the slowdown in the first
quarter is viewed by most on the committee as transitory,” he
said.  The Commerce Department’s personal consumption expenditures
price index, excluding food and energy, rose 0.9 percent in
February from a year earlier. Policy makers have a long-run goal
for total inflation of about 1.6 percent to 2 percent annually.  Economists say the Fed is at least a few months away from
starting to reverse the stimulus. Most of the 44 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News from April 20 to April 25 said the
central bank this year will probably halt its policy of
replacing maturing mortgage debt with Treasuries. The majority
of respondents also said the Fed will announce a plan next year
of selling mortgage bonds and Treasuries among its assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  