-- 
Bernanke Says End to Fed’s Treasury Buying Unlikely to Have Major Impact

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-04-27T20:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/bernanke-says-end-to-fed-s-treasury-buying-unlikely-to-have-major-impact.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the end of the Fed’s $600 billion bond-buying
program in June probably won’t have a “significant” effect on
financial markets or the economy, and the central bank will
likely continue reinvesting maturing debt after June.  “We are going to complete the program at the end of the
second quarter,” he said at his first press conference
following a policy meeting. “The end of the program is unlikely
to have a significant effect on financial markets or the
economy.”  Bernanke spoke after the central bank today reiterated its
view that surging commodity prices are likely to have a
transitory effect on inflation and agreed to finish its program
of large-scale asset purchases on schedule. U.S. stocks rose,
sending benchmark indexes to almost three-year highs, and
Treasuries fell after the Fed renewed its pledge to keep rates
low for an “extended period.”  In his press conference, Bernanke said the central bank is
likely to continue reinvesting its securities holdings,
including mortgage-backed securities, as they mature even after
June.  “We are going to continue to reinvest maturing securities,
both Treasuries and MBS, so the amount of securities that we
hold will remain” approximately constant, he said. “The amount
of monetary policy easing should remain constant going forward
from June.”  Monetary Stimulus  When the Fed begins unwinding its record monetary stimulus,
“it’s very likely that an early step would be to stop
reinvesting all or part of the securities which are maturing,”
he said. “That step, though a relatively modest step, does
constitute a policy tightening,” Bernanke said.  Bernanke has signaled he’ll maintain record stimulus until
job growth accelerates and the recovery is robust enough to
withstand tighter credit. The Fed chief has said he expects that
a surge this year in fuel and food costs will have only a
passing inflationary impact, differing with Fed regional bank
presidents who say low borrowing costs may push up prices.  The Fed left its benchmark interest rate in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008. The
central bank will keep reinvesting proceeds of maturing mortgage
debt purchased in the first round of large-scale asset purchases
that lasted from December 2008 to March 2010.  Forecasts Changed  Policy makers, in a release after the statement, lowered
their forecasts for economic growth this year and raised
estimates for a key gauge of inflation that excludes volatile
food and energy prices. The projections of governors and
regional bank presidents were released three weeks sooner than
prior practice.  The range of estimates for growth this year was cut to 3.1
percent to 3.3 percent, from 3.4 percent to 3.9 percent in
January. Estimates for the personal consumption expenditures
index, minus food and energy, ranged from 1.3 percent to 1.6
percent, up from a prior range of 1 percent to 1.3 percent.  Fed officials’ central tendency forecast for the average
 unemployment rate  in the final three months of 2011 fell to 8.4
percent to 8.7 percent versus 8.8 percent to 9.0 percent in
January. Their estimate for unemployment at the end of 2012 was
in a range of 7.6 percent to 7.9 percent versus 7.6 percent to
8.1 percent in January.  “The labor market is improving gradually,” Bernanke said
at the press conference. “The longer it goes on, the more
confident we are.”  ‘Deep Hole’  “We are digging ourselves out of a deep hole,” Bernanke
said, referring to the jobs lost during the recession.  The Fed’s commitment to record stimulus contrasts with the
interest-rate increase this month by the  European Central Bank 
and tightening this year by the biggest emerging-market
economies, including  China ,  Brazil  and  India , which face faster
inflation.  Bernanke became the first Fed chairman to conduct a press
briefing following an FOMC decision when he took the microphone
at the Fed’s headquarters. His counterparts in  Europe ,  Japan ,
the U.K. and Canada already hold regular news conferences.  The press conference, broadcast on television and the
central bank’s website, marks one of Bernanke’s biggest efforts
to improve the Fed’s connections with the public and demystify
the institution, which as recently as 1993 didn’t announce its
monetary-policy decisions. Bernanke said in February that the
central bank was weighing benefits of more transparency against
the risk that his remarks would trigger unwanted fluctuations in
financial markets.  Tighten Credit  Increases in employment and inflation are helping drive
calls to tighten credit. Payrolls have increased by an average
149,000 a month for the past six months, while the unemployment
rate has dropped by 1 percentage point since November to 8.8
percent, a two-year low.  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley, the FOMC’s vice chairman, reiterated in a speech April 1
that a faster pace of job growth is “sorely needed” and that
even with 300,000 new jobs per month, the labor market would
still have “considerable slack” at the end of 2012.  Janet Yellen , vice chairman of the Fed’s Board of
Governors, said April 11 that the increase in food and fuel
costs will have only a temporary impact on prices and  consumer
spending , and warrants no reversal of monetary stimulus.  Gas Price Rose  Food and beverage prices rose in the first quarter by the
most since 2008, based on the Labor Department’s Consumer Price
Index, while the cost of regular-unleaded gasoline has increased
by 26 percent this year to $3.88 a gallon as of yesterday.  The increases helped slow U.S. growth to a 2 percent pace
in the first quarter, according to the median estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News, from 3.1 percent in the
prior period. The government releases preliminary figures
tomorrow.  The Commerce Department’s personal consumption expenditures
price index, excluding food and energy, rose 0.9 percent in
February from a year earlier. Policy makers have a long-run goal
for total inflation of about 1.6 percent to 2 percent annually.  Economists say the Fed is at least a few months away from
starting to reverse the stimulus. Most of the 44 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News from April 20 to April 25 said the
central bank this year will probably halt its policy of
replacing maturing mortgage debt with Treasuries. The majority
of respondents also said the Fed will announce a plan next year
of selling mortgage bonds and Treasuries among its assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  