-- 
Bernanke Must Have Lost My List of Questions: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-04-27T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/bernanke-must-have-lost-my-list-of-questions-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben Bernanke  took questions from the press for 45 minutes yesterday.
His answers were direct, as complete as they could be (given the
vagaries of economic forecasting) and even at times
groundbreaking.  We learned, for example, that when the Fed assures us of
low interest rates for an “extended period,” it means for “a
couple of meetings.” “We don’t know with certainty,” Bernanke
added.  There was a lot left unanswered -- and unasked. (I’ll get
to my preferred questions in a moment.)  Considering how momentous a break from tradition it was for
Bernanke to hold the first post-meeting press conference in the
Federal Reserve’s 98-year history, the immediate reaction was
muted. The earth is still rotating on its axis, the  New York 
Stock Exchange is set to open at 9:30 a.m. today as planned, and
the gods of the markets seem at peace with the outcome.  It’s true that, for anyone over the age of 40, the press
briefing was a big deal. Prior to 1994, the Fed didn’t even
announce its policy changes. Too much information in the hands
of the public was thought to be dangerous.  It was left to a subspecies of homo sapiens, known as “Fed
Watcher,” to analyze the pattern and size of the Fed’s daily
open-market operations and divine the central bank’s intent.  Such opacity never made any sense. The Fed changes policy
because it wants to change behavior, raising or lowering its
benchmark interest rate to induce the public to save or spend
more. By all rights, it should use a brass band to signal any
shift in its stance.  End of an Era  In 1994, the Fed let down its guard ever so slightly and
began announcing policy changes. Even then, it hid behind
boilerplate language that provided more of an escape hatch for
the bank than vital information for the rest of us.  If Bernanke’s willingness to quantify “extended period,”
a phrase that has been a fixture of every post-meeting  statement 
from the Fed for the past two years, is a sign of a new
openness, yesterday’s press conference was a good start.  Herewith is my list of still unraised questions for
Bernanke:  1. When does the Fed plan to start raising its benchmark
rate and/or start shrinking its balance sheet? OK, then a
follow-up: What’s your best guess when that will be?  2. How low does the  unemployment rate  have to go before you
will be comfortable raising interest rates without risking the
wrath of Congress for betraying your dual mandate to pursue
stable prices and maximum employment?  3. Speaking of Congress, how do you put up with those self-
serving monologues from committee members that pass as questions
without saying, “Go stuff it?”  4. What keeps you up at night: concern about deflation or
tulip bulbs -- and I’m not referring to the state of your
garden?  5. Your predecessor,  Alan Greenspan , prided himself on his
ability to obfuscate. Today transparency is the rage. Has the
art of central banking changed enough in the past two decades to
justify the Fed’s 180-degree turn?  6. The Fed lowered its benchmark rate to a range of 0 to
0.25 percent in December 2008. Zero was considered appropriate
at a time when the economy was hemorrhaging jobs, credit markets
were frozen, banks were on the verge of insolvency and panic was
in the air. If zero was the correct setting for the economy
then, how do you justify it now?  7. In your widely quoted 2002  speech , “Deflation: Making
Sure ‘It’ Doesn’t Happen Here,” you explained that the Fed has
“a technology called a printing press that allows it to produce
as many dollars as it wants at essentially no cost.” In
December 2010, you told “60 Minutes” correspondent Scott Pelley that the Fed was not printing money. Please discuss.  8. The “extended period” language in the Fed’s statements
about low interest rates was designed to anchor market rates.
How do you expect to remove it and hint at the long process of
normalizing rates without upending the markets? Do you have
economists -- or etymologists -- working on this issue?  9. A dollar today buys only 45 cents worth of the goods and
services it bought in the early 1980s, according to the Bureau
of Labor Statistics. Can you explain why, in a time when prices
are supposedly stable, the dollar has lost half its  purchasing
power ?  10. Do you attach any significance to the fact that the
security identification number on the Treasury’s new two-year
note, auctioned this week, ends in QE3?  In answering the questions he did get, Bernanke reiterated
his belief that the current rise in inflation is transitory, a
result of higher food and energy prices, not the Fed’s overly
aggressive monetary policy. Which brings me to one last
question: What if you’re wrong?  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a Bloomberg
News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
David Shipley at   djshipley@bloomberg.net  