-- 
Blast Hits Egypt-Israel Gas Pipeline, Forcing Supply Halt, Ministry Says

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l ,   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-04-27T16:50:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/blast-hits-egypt-israel-gas-pipeline-forcing-supply-halt-ministry-says.html
Egypt  suspended natural-gas exports
to  Israel  and Jordan for the second time this year after
saboteurs blew up a monitoring room in the pipeline network that
transports the fuel, the Oil Ministry said.  “Unidentified attackers bombed the station around dawn,”
Hamdi Abdel Aziz, a ministry spokesman, said by telephone today
in Cairo, reading out a statement citing Magdi Tawfik, chairman
of Egyptian Natural Gas Co. “Exports to Israel and Jordan were
halted as were supplies to the local market.”  Officials didn’t say how soon Egypt might be able to resume
shipments. Abdel Wahab Mabrouk, the governor of North Sinai
province where the attack occurred, said the necessary repairs
“will take time,” offering no details.  Mabrouk was later cited by the state-run Middle East  News
Agency  as saying that the repairs to the station may take two
weeks. A spokesman for Jordan’s Energy Ministry said the work
needed to restore gas exports to his country would take one
week. Jordan has been forced by the suspension to switch to
alternative fuels at a cost of 3 million dinars ($4.2 million) a
day, Mahmoud al-Ees said by telephone from Amman.  Ampal-American Israel (AMPL)  Corp., which owns 12.5 percent of
Eastern Mediterranean Gas Co., the Israeli company importing
Egyptian gas, confirmed that supplies have stopped. The
company’s shares slid to the lowest level in two years, tumbling
17 percent to 4.74 shekels at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv .
Israel relies on Egypt for about 40 percent of its gas, buying
the fuel under a long-term contract reached after the former
enemies signed a peace treaty in 1979.  Third Attack Thwarted  The bombing is the second in three months on the pipeline
system that sends gas to Israel. Gunmen attacked the link on
Feb. 5 during a popular revolt in Egypt that ousted President
 Hosni Mubarak  six days later. Authorities thwarted a separate
attempt on the same network on March 27, Mena reported.  Today’s blast occurred at 3 a.m. local time at a gas-
distribution facility on the outskirts of El-Arish, the
provincial capital in North Sinai, Cairo-based state-run Nile
News television said. Flames shot 30 meters (100 feet) into the
air after residents in the district heard a loud bang, Maher
Ismail, a journalist, said by telephone from El-Arish. Mabrouk,
the governor, said from the city that the fire was extinguished
later in the morning. Mabrouk was quoted by Mena as saying that
the perpetrators were riding in a four-wheel drive after which
they planted the explosives in the station, detonated them and
then fled the scene.  Investigators were assessing the damage, and authorities
were seeking to identify those behind the “act of sabotage,”
said Abdel Aziz, the Oil Ministry spokesman. The blast occurred
at a section of the pipeline network before it splits into
separate branches to Jordan and Israel, said al-Ees of the
Jordanian Energy Ministry.  Gas Contract Probed  Egyptian prosecutors last week ordered the detention of
former Oil Minister  Sameh Fahmy  and five ex-officials in an
investigation into the country’s agreement to sell gas to
Israel, signed during Mubarak’s rule. The  Muslim Brotherhood ,
Egypt’s biggest opposition group under Mubarak, repeatedly
criticized his regime for exporting to Israel at prices that
were below market rates.  Egypt has 78 trillion cubic feet (2.21 trillion cubic
meters) of gas reserves and is the main producer of the fuel in
the eastern Mediterranean region, according to the U.S. Energy
Department. The country exported 650 billion cubic feet in 2009,
of which 30 percent went through the El Arish-Ashkelon pipeline
to Israel or via a separate link to Jordan, Syria and Lebanon,
according to the department.  Peace Treaty  Some 54 percent of 1,000 Egyptians surveyed by the Pew
Research Center’s Global Attitudes Project want the government
to annul its peace treaty with Israel, the Washington-based
center said on April 25. Mubarak’s predecessor  Anwar Sadat 
signed the accord.  Jordan, the only other Arab country to have a peace treaty
with Israel, imports almost all of its energy supplies. Before
today’s explosion, the kingdom bought about 150 million cubic
meters of Egyptian gas a day as fuel for its power stations, al-
Ees said. It reduced its imports by half after the first attack
on the Egyptian network and had been in talks to increase them,
the Jordanian spokesman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  