-- 
Blast Hits Egypt-Israel Gas Pipeline, Suspending Supplies, State Media Say

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-04-27T06:24:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/blast-hits-egypt-israel-gas-pipeline-suspending-supplies-state-media-say.html
Unidentified attackers blew up a
facility at a pipeline that transports natural gas from  Egypt  to
 Israel  and Jordan, Egyptian state-run media said today.  Authorities suspended gas flows after the explosion, Al
Jazeera television reported, without saying how it obtained the
information.  The blast occurred at 3 a.m. local time at a gas-
distribution facility south of El-Arish in the province of
North Sinai, Cairo-based state-run Nile News television said.
Firefighters were still trying to control the blaze, the
Middle East News Agency reported.  The bombing is the second this year on the main pipeline
exporting Egyptian gas to Israel. Gunmen attacked the network
on Feb. 5 during a popular revolt in Egypt that ousted President
 Hosni Mubarak  six days later. Authorities thwarted a separate
attempt on the same network, state-run Mena reported March 27.  Egyptian prosecutors last week ordered the detention of
former Oil Minister  Sameh Fahmy  and five ex-officials in an
investigation into the country’s agreement to sell natural gas
to Israel, signed during Mubarak’s rule. The  Muslim Brotherhood ,
Egypt’s biggest opposition group under Mubarak, repeatedly
criticized his regime for exporting to Israel at prices that
were below market rates.  Egypt has 77 trillion cubic feet (2.18 trillion cubic
meters) of gas reserves and is the main producer of the fuel in
the eastern Mediterranean region, according to the U.S. Energy
Department. The country exported 650 billion cubic feet in 2009,
of which 30 percent went through the El Arish-Ashkelon pipeline
to Israel or via a separate link to Jordan, Syria and Lebanon,
according to the department.  Fifty-four percent of 1,000 Egyptians surveyed by the Pew
Research Center’s Global Attitudes Project want the government
to annul its peace treaty with Israel, the Washington-based
center said on April 25. Mubarak’s predecessor  Anwar Sadat 
signed the treaty in 1979.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  