-- 
BMW Drivers Tweet as Luxury Brands Chase Ford for IPhone Crowd

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-04-27T22:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/bmw-drivers-tweet-as-luxury-brands-chase-ford-for-iphone-crowd.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest luxury-car maker, is bringing Twitter and
Facebook to the 5-Series sedan as luxury auto brands play catch-
up to  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in the race for tech-savvy drivers.  BMW and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz are adding Internet and
smartphone access to their vehicles as environmental concerns
and consumer addiction to mobile devices shift the emphasis to
high-tech gadgetry from horsepower.  “Mobile connectivity is playing an increasing role in all
our lives,” BMW sales chief  Ian Robertson  said at an event in
Munich. “These services will continue to grow. It’s a component
of a competitive advantage.”  Luxury-auto makers were slow to link their cars to the
Internet because of concern about safety and allowing unfiltered
data into their vehicles. The proliferation of mobile devices
like  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone is changing that, while  oil prices 
above $100 a barrel increases pressure on carmakers to find a
selling point that isn’t associated with burning fuel.  Mercedes began offering  Internet access  in vehicles for the
first time this year with the upgraded C-Class and revamped SLK
roadster. BMW last month introduced a smartphone application
that allows iPhone users to access playlists and browse tweets
from the car’s display.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi will add real-time
traffic data to its navigation service in  Europe  this summer.  Information Control  “Luxury-auto makers were keen on controlling the flow of
information in the car to preserve the brand experience, and
that slowed down the rollout of services,” said Anil Valsan, an
analyst at Ernst & Young’s automotive center in  London . “The
high-end vehicle market can’t afford to lag anymore.”  Ford provided connection to mobile devices when it launched
Sync in 2007. The system, developed with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , plays
music on voice command and reads tweets to drivers. Sync, which
will be rolled out to Europe next year, has gained more than 3
million users in  North America .  General Motors Co. (GM)  began offering the OnStar service in
1995. The system, which provides emergency support, navigation
help and stolen-vehicle assistance, is available in more than 30
models in the U.S. and has more than 6 million users, Vijay Iyer, a GM spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Luxury automakers, which traditionally have been in the
forefront of integrating technology into their vehicles, are
facing greater competition from mass-market competitors in
networking, said  Jesse Toprak , an industry analyst with
TrueCar.com, a website based in  Santa Monica ,  California , that
tracks auto market trends. Brands like BMW and Mercedes have to
prove they’re worth the higher price and connectivity offerings
are playing a bigger role, he said.  Connectivity  “Along with the name, people are paying for the technology
in the car,” Toprak said. “If you can get the same technology
in a car half the price, the value goes down dramatically. They
have to always be one-upping the mass market.”  For high-end car buyers like Shien-Lin Garrett, in-car
connectivity has become a must-have. The mother of four from
Laguna Beach, California, uses apps on her iPhone to keep track
of her busy schedule and entertain her kids. She uses the
phone’s speaker function to make calls after struggling to link
it to her Audi A4.  “The iPhone is my life; I run everything on it,” she
said. “The only time I actually have to talk on the phone is
while driving.”  Internet Browsing  Mercedes’ Comand Online package costs 3,070 euros ($4,493)
on the C-Class, including voice-recognition software and a
system to monitor speed limits. The offering allows unlimited
Internet browsing while the car is stationary but restricts
access to data while driving to avoid distraction. The
Stuttgart, Germany-based automaker plans to roll out the system
to other models in the future, said Frank Bracke, a spokesman.  Mercedes is also experimenting with new ways to interact
with the increasing amount of data in cars and showed a concept
vehicle last year that tracks the driver’s hand movements on a
screen located on the center console. BMW is experimenting with
filtering data based on moods, such as selecting music within a
range of emotions spanning from joyful to hopeless.  In the real world, BMW plans to follow Audi with live
traffic data later this year. It’s adding other gadgets,
including a full-color display on the revamped 6-Series this
year. It introduced a smartphone app at the end of 2010 that
allows users to lock their car and turn on the heat remotely.
The company also set up a $100 million venture-capital unit to
buy stakes in companies offering transport-related businesses
like the MyCityWay guide service.  Electric Vehicles  BMW is likewise using apps to prepare the groundwork for
its upcoming line of electric vehicles. Last week, it introduced
a mobile phone application that determines whether a user’s
transportation habits are compatible with electric vehicles.  For people ready to spend more than $40,000 for a car,
comfort and convenience are important, and vehicles need to fit
into today’s networked world, said Johan de Nysschen, Audi’s
U.S. chief.  “Customers are accustomed to having these connectivity
benefits in their everyday life,” he said. “There’s no reason
why we should imagine that when they get into their car suddenly
they might have to be isolated from what’s happening around the
world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in  Detroit  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 