-- 
Bodybuilding Mexican Academic Woos Edinburgh With ‘Robot’ Fund

-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-27T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/bodybuilding-mexican-academic-woos-edinburgh-with-robot-fund.html
For two centuries, fund managers in
Edinburgh built their companies by handpicking stocks. Now, an
academic and former bodybuilder from Mexico is in the city
trying to prove a computer can teach itself to do better.  Sonia Schulenburg , who has a doctorate in artificial
intelligence, is combining her research with finance. She set up
a fund in 2008 that uses a quantitative computer model to create
its own buy and sell signals. Her firm,  Level E Capital  based in
Edinburgh’s Georgian New Town, has attracted money from
investors, including Peter Burt,  Bank of Scotland ’s former chief
executive officer, and Baillie Gifford & Co., whose clients
include seven of the world’s 15 largest  pension funds .  “This is definitely different because it’s dynamic,”
Michael MacPhee, a partner at Baillie Gifford, which invested
$15 million last year with Schulenburg, said at his Edinburgh
office. “Most quant funds are pennies in front of a
steamroller. This thing actually adapts, it’s intelligent.”  Schulenburg is trying to raise more money for her Maya Fund
at a time when financial markets have become tougher to navigate
because of concerns about everything from unrest in the Middle
East to probable interest rate increases by the  Bank of England .  Her pitch is steady returns with low volatility as the
computer adapts more quickly than a human to the market, buying
some stocks to hold and betting on others to fall by short-
selling them. The fund has little correlation to the market, so
when the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  jumps, it doesn’t capture all the gain,
and when the benchmark falls, it loses out by less.  Making Robots  “My children say mummy makes robots, the robots live in
the computer and the computer trades stocks,” said Schulenburg,
44, who has three sons.  Maya, whose server is kept in a two-meter-tall air-cooled
cabinet, uses so-called artificial intelligence to process data
and, unlike other mathematics-based funds, adjusts to changing
market conditions “on the fly,” she said. The fund makes as
many as 1,000 trades a day, mainly in FTSE 100 companies and
those in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  In the 12 months since the fund officially started trading
last April, the worst month was July when it fell 2.43 percent
and the FTSE 100 rose 6.94 percent. The best month was last May
when the fund rose 1.05 percent and the index dropped 6.57
percent. Since the start of the year when Schulenburg fully
invested the money from her clients, the fund has risen 5.3
percent, compared with the 2.9 percent advance of the FTSE 100.  Untested Safety  “It gives a reasonably consistent return on a liquid
portfolio and it will compare well with other safer investments
such as bonds or cash,” said Colin McLean, the CEO and founder
of SVM Asset Management in Edinburgh. He added that
Schulenburg’s fund hasn’t been “around long enough to have been
tested by different markets.”  SVM, which oversees about 650 million pounds ($1 billion),
is studying the Maya Fund’s returns and may make an investment
later this year, McLean said.  The genesis of Schulenburg’s idea came during the 1994-1995
financial crisis in  Mexico  when she was studying computer
engineering at the  Instituto Tecnologico Autonomo de Mexico  in
Mexico City, her hometown. She then took a job in the systems
department at a brokerage that’s now part of Banamex, Citigroup
Inc.’s Mexican unit, and watched the trading floor during breaks
to observe the behavior of traders.  “Looking at all the panic, it needed a more systematic
approach,” she recalled.  Natural Bodybuilding  Two years later, Schulenburg arrived in  Scotland  from
Mexico to work on a doctorate at the University of Edinburgh’s
 department of Artificial Intelligence . Her thesis was entitled
“Can Learning Classifier Systems Represent Competent Traders?”  During that time, Schulenburg also competed in natural, or
non drug-enhanced, bodybuilding events. She placed third in the
U.K. championships for her weight in 1998 and 2000. She also was
a  Scottish champion , according to Guy Addison, who runs the Body
Academy in Perth. Schulenburg no longer competes, though she
said she trains sporadically.  After her doctorate, she began to develop her theory of
using a computer instead of a human brain in the investment
industry and started her firm in 2005 while still under the
auspices of  Edinburgh University .  The Maya Fund now is the biggest holding in the 66 million-
pound Mid Wynd investment trust run by MacPhee at Baillie
Gifford, making up 3.5 percent of it. Baillie Gifford, which has
72 billion pounds of assets, also has a five-year option to
acquire 25 percent of Level E Capital.  Drying Paint  “If it works, returns are likely to be pretty healthy, and
if it doesn’t work, it will be like watching paint dry because
of the low volatility,” said MacPhee, 46, who joined Baillie
Gifford in 1989.  MacPhee heard about Schulenburg from Burt, 67, who ran Bank
of Scotland from 1996 until 2001 when it combined with Halifax
Plc to become HBOS Plc, now part of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   Burt said he invested a “few thousand pounds” in the Maya
Fund to allow it to start trading with real money in June 2008.
Baillie Gifford’s investment is 10 million pounds across three
 investment trusts , or closed-end funds.  “It was seed money to give her a chance, to see what she
could do,” Burt said by telephone from his home east of
Edinburgh. “Can you get a computer to make a better decision
than a fund manager? I don’t think it’s yet proven, but there is
an increasing amount of evidence that a computer can pick out
trends that a human finds it harder to pick out.”  ‘Roulette Wheel’  The human input is choosing the market, then the computer
takes over and decides when and how to trade. There’s no loyalty
to companies and no view on a stock, Schulenburg said.  “Her program is trying to look at a roulette wheel
spinning and work out from the pattern that there’s a tiny
manufacturing flaw that red comes up or the number 27 comes up a
fraction of the time more than it should,” said Burt.  The product isn’t patented because it would mean disclosing
all the details and would be easy to copy, said Schulenburg, who
is targeting $1 billion over five years with the prospect of
“double-digit gains with little volatility.” As it grows, she
will enter new investments that are liquid enough to be able to
buy and sell quickly, such as currencies, she said.  “We don’t offer that roller-coaster performance,”
Schulenburg said. “When people are celebrating, we don’t, and
when people are crying and committing suicide, we don’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  