-- 
Bovespa Futures Decline on China Tightening, Metal Prices Tumble

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-04-27T12:39:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/bovespa-futures-decline-on-china-tightening-metal-prices-tumble.html
Bovespa stock-index futures
declined on speculation China will take steps to curb credit
growth in  Brazil ’s biggest trading partner.  Miners  Vale SA (VALE3)  and MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA may move as
metal prices dropped.  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  may be active after it
said adjusted first-quarter profit rose 28 percent from a year
earlier. The  Federal Reserve  will release its monetary policy
statement and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will give a press
conference.  Bovespa stock-index futures fell 0.4 percent to 67,870 at
8:17 a.m. New York time. The real strengthened 0.2 percent to
1.5588 per  U.S. dollar . Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge rose
yesterday as investors speculated borrowing costs will rise less
than previously expected and U.S. consumer confidence exceeded
estimates.  “We expect that the People’s Bank of  China  will raise
interest rates once and the required reserves ratio once in May
as Beijing accelerates the normalization in monetary policy,”
Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Dong Tao wrote in a note to
clients today.  Fed policy makers conclude their two-day meeting today.
Officials will probably prepare to pull back from record
stimulus by dropping a pledge this year to hold the main
interest rate near zero for an “extended period,” according to
economists.  Thirty-three of 44 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
said the central bank will remove the two-word phrase from its
post-meeting statement in 2011. The Federal Open Market
Committee will release its statement at 12:30 p.m. in Washington
and Bernanke will give a press conference at 2:15 p.m.  Copper  Copper, a bellwether for global growth, fell for a second
day in  London  on speculation Fed may start to pull back from
stimulus, potentially curbing metals demand.  The Chinese government may require down payments of 50
percent for first-home purchases if property prices continue to
rise, the China Securities Journal reported today, citing an
unidentified loan official at a domestic bank. The land ministry
will also issue policies to control the price of land, it said.
The banking regulator may also tighten regulation of loans trust
companies extend to developers, according to the report.  Bradesco  Bradesco reported adjusted net income, which excludes one-
time items, of 2.74 billion reais ($1.8 billion) in the first
quarter, from 2.15 billion reais a year earlier. Its loan
portfolio expanded 21 percent in March from a year before to
284.7 billion reais, the Osasco, Brazil-based bank said in a
regulatory filing today.  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , the world’s fourth-largest airplane maker, may
be active after it reaffirmed its 2011 sales forecast, saying
there was no significant impact from the Japan earthquake on
deliveries planned for the year, according to a regulatory
filing. There may be some delay to deliveries in the second
quarter, which will be made up for in subsequent quarters, the
company said.  Marfrig Alimentos SA, Latin America’s second-largest beef
producer, may move as it plans to sell $500 million of senior
unsecured notes due in 2018, according to a report released by
 Fitch Ratings .  The Bovespa is down 3.1 percent this year through yesterday
after declines in oil companies, homebuilders and banks
outweighed a rally in telecom shares. The index trades at 10.7
times analysts’ earnings estimates, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 13.8 for the
Shanghai Composite Index, 7.5 for Russia’s Micex, and 15.5 for
 India ’s Sensex.  Investors pulled 3.87 billion reais from  Latin America ’s
biggest equity market this year through April 18, data from the
Sao Paulo exchange show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  