-- 
BP First-Quarter Profit Declines 4% as Oilfield Disposals Cut Production

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-04-27T15:52:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/bp-says-profit-falls-after-selling-fields-to-pay-for-gulf-spill.html
BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil
producer, said profit declined 4 percent in the first quarter as
output dropped. The company booked an extra $400 million charge
related to last year’s Gulf of Mexico spill.  Excluding one-time items and inventory changes, earnings
fell to $5.37 billion from $5.6 billion a year earlier. BP was
expected to earn $5.6 billion on this basis, according to the
mean estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Production dropped 11 percent after the sale of more than $24
billion of assets to help pay for the disaster.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  is targeting higher-
growth exploration to reverse a 30 percent drop in BP’s share
price since the spill. With Brent crude up more than 30 percent
in the past year, BP has signed deals in  India  and is seeking to
salvage a threatened $7.8 billion share swap and exploration
pact with OAO Rosneft in  Russia .  “The upstream business was weaker than people thought and
they’re suffering from the loss of high-margin Gulf of Mexico
barrels,” said Alastair Syme, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in
London. “It may take years to see the benefits of the greater
focus on exploration, but it’s the right thing to do.”  BP is the first of the world’s biggest oil companies to
report earnings. Royal Dutch Shell is due to release results
tomorrow, as is  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s largest company
by market value.  Higher Oil Prices  Net income rose 17 percent to $7.12 billion, or 37 cents a
share, from $6.08 billion, or 32 cents, in the year-earlier
quarter, the London-based company said in a statement today.
Revenue climbed to $88.31 billion from $74.42 billion, boosted
by higher oil prices. BP shares rose 0.4 percent to 466 pence as
of the 4:30 p.m. close in London.  BP took an additional $400 million charge for spill
expenses, bringing the total provision to $41.3 billion. Output
fell to the equivalent of 3.58 million barrels a day. The  Gulf
of Mexico  drilling ban, higher maintenance in the North Sea and
 Angola , and a disruption to the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System
also contributed to the drop.  The company expects to resume drilling in the Gulf in the
second half of the year and has applied for permits, Chief
Financial Officer Byron Grote said in a conference call with
analysts. Production in the region was down by about 100,000
barrels a day from a year earlier, he said.  ‘Transition Phase’  “BP had quite a big swing in volumes with a big impact
from high-margin areas in the Gulf of Mexico, which is why
upstream underperformed,” said  Jason Kenney , an analyst at ING
Wholesale Banking in Edinburgh. “Dudley’s slim-to-grow strategy
is good, but they’ve still got to go through a transition phase
before we can start seeing earnings progress.”  BP has yet to resume deepwater drilling in the Gulf
following the lifting of the moratorium. The company’s share of
production from the region was about 400,000 barrels of oil
equivalent before the spill. Separately, the Mad Dog platform
will be closed for several weeks for maintenance, a person with
knowledge of the work said this week.  The supply and trading unit posted “very strong” profits
in the first quarter as  oil prices  gained, BP said today. The
company expects its contribution to be lower in the second
quarter.  U.K. Taxes  BP’s effective tax rate on replacement-cost profit
increased to 37 percent from 34 percent a year ago. That
includes a $683 million one-off deferred tax adjustment after
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  raised taxes on
North Sea oil profits. BP will take an additional $400 million
tax charge next year if the U.K. government reduces tax breaks
for decommissioning.  Dudley may sell an additional $6 billion of assets to shore
up BP’s balance sheet after the spill. On the sales so far, the
“proceeds significantly exceeded the book value,” Dudley said
at the annual general meeting in  London  earlier this month.  BP has divested fields in  Argentina ,  Colombia , Pakistan and
 Vietnam  since the spill and said it will focus on exploration.
This year, BP pledged to sell half of its U.S. refining capacity
and signed deals for offshore drilling with Rosneft and Reliance
Ltd. in India.  BP agreed in January to swap 5 percent of its own stock for
about 9.5 percent of Rosneft as part of an alliance to explore
the Arctic Kara Sea. BP’s billionaire partners in TNK-BP, which
accounts for a quarter of its output and a fifth of its
reserves, won an injunction against the deal, saying it violated
their shareholders’ agreement. The next arbitration hearings are
scheduled for next week, BP said today.  Higher Oil Prices  Brent crude  prices averaged $105.52 a barrel in the first
three months of 2011, compared with $77.37 in the year-earlier
period. As a rule of thumb, BP says that each $1 increase in the
price of Brent will bolster profits by about $380 million a
year, according to its website.  The company also benefited from higher profits from turning
crude into fuels. BP’s Refining Marker Margin, a broad measure
of global refining profitability,  rose  to $11.02 a barrel in the
first quarter from $9.98 in the last three months of 2010,
according to its website.  After reintroducing the dividend last quarter, BP
maintained the 7 cents-a-share payout for the first three months
of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  