-- 
BP Delays Texas City Refinery Start After Power Plant Trip

-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-04-27T19:15:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/bp-to-resume-gasoline-unit-operations-at-texas-city-oil-refinery.html
BP Plc (BP/)  has delayed the restart of
its 475,000-barrel-a-day  Texas  City, Texas, refinery after an
external power failure forced its chemical plant to shut down,
said a person with knowledge of the situation.  The chemical plant shut early today after a power failure
from a third-party provider, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the information is confidential. BP is
waiting to restart its 475,000-barrel-a-day refinery until it is
comfortable with the grid’s reliability, said the person.  Calpine Corp.’s 453-megawatt power plant in Texas City
automatically tripped offline early today due to “voltage
fluctuations on the electric transmission grid operated by a
third party,” Norma Dunn, a spokeswoman for the plant, said in
an e-mail.  Three refineries with almost 5 percent of U.S. fuel-making
capacity were knocked offline or had units shut after power
failures in  Texas City  late April 25 and early yesterday,
sending gasoline futures to a 33-month high in  New York .  Gasoline for May delivery rose 6.22 cents, or 1.9 percent,
to settle at $3.4194 a gallon at 2:30 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Futures touched $3.425, the highest
intraday price for the front-month contract since July 15, 2008.
Prices surged as much as 2 percent as gasoline stockpiles
dropped a 10th consecutive week, losing 2.51 million barrels to
205.6 million, the Energy Department said.  ‘Curtail Operations’  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  is “proceeding cautiously” and has
“no specific timetable” for returning its 245,000-barrel-a-day
plant in Texas City to full rates,  Bill Day , a company
spokesman, said in a telephone interview. “A reliable supply of
electricity is necessary before our refinery, or any refinery,
can fully restart,” he said.  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) ’s 81,500-barrel-a-day Texas City
refinery, which had some units forced offline due to the
electrical disruptions, is operating normally, Shane Pochard, a
Findlay, Ohio-based spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Texas New Mexico Power Co. had at least two events today
affecting its transmission system in the Texas City area, said
Cathy Garber, a spokeswoman for the company, which is owned by
PNM Resources Inc. There were outages to equipment of both TNMP
and industrial customers, she said.  “The events caused a voltage sag that affects all
industrial customers on our system in the Texas City area,”
Garber said. “Our understanding is that these momentary power
disturbances led some industrial customers on our system to
curtail operations.”  The faults on Texas New Mexico equipment the past two days
were probably caused by a residue buildup on insulators and
humidity that have accumulated more than normal due to a lack of
rain, according to Garber.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  