-- 
Brazil May Resume Offering Reverse Currency Swaps April 29

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   J e s s i c a   B r i c e
-- 
2011-04-27T23:42:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/brazil-may-resume-offering-reverse-currency-swaps-april-29-1-.html
Brazil  on April 29 may resume
offering reverse swap contracts, which are bets against the
real, after staying out of the futures market for almost a
month.  Policy makers last auctions reverse swaps April 1. The bank
said in a statement it will assess demand between 6 p.m. and
6:30 p.m. local time tomorrow.  Finance Minister Guido Mantega said yesterday the
government will continue to take measures to prevent
“excessive” gains of real, which jumped 42 percent in the past
two years. The real would be worth more than 1.4 per U.S. dollar
if President Dilma Rousseff administration hadn’t intervened in
the futures market, increased taxes on foreign capital, and
bought dollars in the spot and forward market, Mantega said.  “‘They may be trying to act preventively to avoid a new
rally,”  Zeina Latif , Latin America macro strategist at RBS
Securities Inc., said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo .
“There is a policy fatigue, and it won’t change the situation
of the real.”  The real fell 0.3 percent to 1.5665 per U.S. dollar today,
paring the monthly gain to 4.2 percent. The currency had its
biggest drop in a week today on speculation policy makers are
less likely to raise benchmark borrowing costs after credit
growth in Latin America’s biggest economy slowed in March.  Slower credit growth suggests policy makers will rely on
capital and reserve requirements on banks, or so-called macro-
prudential measures, rather than raising  interest rates  to tame
inflation, said  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual
Investimentos in Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jessica Brice in Sao Paulo at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net 
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  