-- 
Brazil Credit Expands at Second-Slowest Pace in 13 Months

-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-04-27T21:34:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/brazil-credit-growth-slows-in-march-to-1-as-rates-rise-1-.html
Brazil ’s bank lending expanded in
March at the second-slowest pace in 13 months as the government
stepped up efforts to contain demand and inflation by curbing
credit to consumers.  Total outstanding credit rose 1 percent in March to 1.75
trillion reais ($1.11 trillion) from a revised 1.73 trillion
reais in February, down from a 1.3 percent increase in the
previous month, the central bank said in a report distributed
today in Brasilia. The average interest rate charged on consumer
loans rose to 45 percent in March, up from 43.8 percent in
February, the bank said.  Brazil’s government since December has taken steps to curb
consumer credit growth, including higher interest rates, as it
seeks to slow economic growth and tame the fastest inflation in
29 months. Annual credit growth will slow to 13 percent by year-
end from 20.7 percent in March, which will help rein in consumer
prices, Tulio Maciel, head of the central bank’s economic
department, told reporters today.  “Today’s figure reinforces the thesis that macro-
prudential measures can reduce the vigor of credit growth,”
 Zeina Latif ,  Latin America  macro strategist at RBS Securities
Inc., said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “But it would
be a mistake to believe the accommodation of credit growth as
seen is enough to bring inflation back to target. It is
necessary to keep raising the benchmark rate.”  Futures Contracts  The yield on the interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2012, the second-most traded on Sao Paulo’s BM&F
exchange today, rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 12.31 percent. The real fell 0.3 percent to 1.5665 per
dollar.  Credit figures confirm “a positive trend” with a slowdown
in the pace of loans granted by the state development bank,
according to a note sent to clients by Enestor dos Santos,
senior Brazil economist for BBVA in  Madrid . Credit from BNDES
grew at a monthly average of 0.5 percent in the first quarter,
down from 2 percent a year ago, he said.  “This moderation suggests that the BNDES will contribute
to the government’s efforts to control credit growth and overall
overheating risks,” Santos said. “This follows a very strong
expansion observed since the beginning of the crisis, which was
initially very helpful in supporting Brazil’s recovery but now
very harmful given the excessive dynamism of credit markets in
an environment where the economy has been overheating.”  Slower Pace  Policy makers slowed the pace of interest rate increases
last week, raising the benchmark Selic rate by 25 basis points,
after 50 basis-point increases at each of their two previous
meetings this year.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration also raised
reserve and capital requirements on some loans in December,
increased a tax on foreign loans, and doubled to 3 percent a tax
on  consumer credit  this month in a bid to slow inflation and
contain domestic demand.  The levy can be repealed when credit growth slows to an
“adequate” level of 12 percent to 15 percent a year, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said April 7.  Average concessions of new loans to consumers fell 5.4
percent in the first 12 days of April after the government
raised the tax, Maciel said.  Latif expects the central bank to increase the benchmark
rate by 0.25 percentage points in each of its next two meetings.  ‘Justify the Decision’  “The slower expansion of credit will be used by the
government to justify the decision to slow the pace of rate
increases,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual
Investimentos, said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo .  He forecasts policy makers will keep interest rates
unchanged in their next meeting.  Fueled by expansion of credit and job creation, domestic
demand helped Latin America’s biggest economy grow 7.5 percent
last year, the fastest growth in more than two decades. Growth
will slow to 4.5 percent this year, Mantega told reporters
yesterday.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini told lawmakers
March 22 that consumer credit growth above 15 percent needs to
be monitored closely. The bank “will make the adjustments that
are needed to prevent imbalances from arising,” Tombini said.  Bank Deals  Economic expansion is prompting Brazilian banks to offer
more financial services and acquire other institutions.  Banco do
Brasil SA (BBAS3) , Brazil’s biggest state-controlled lender, may make
more acquisitions in the U.S. after agreeing to buy Florida-
based Eurobank for $6 million, the bank said April 25.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , the biggest Brazilian bank by
market value, agreed on April 14 to pay 725 million reais ($465
million) for a 49 percent stake in Banco CSF SA,  Carrefour SA (CA) ’s
financial unit in the country.  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , Brazil’s second-largest bank by market
value, plans to complete in the next three months its first deal
from a 2 billion-real fund created this year to invest in local
companies. The Osasco-based bank is in advanced talks over an
investment in the oil and gas industry, Fernando Buzzo, head of
its private-equity division, said March 31.  Andre Esteves , the Brazilian billionaire who owns Banco BTG
Pactual SA, said Feb. 22 he is betting on companies that serve
Brazil’s growing middle class. He acquired  Banco Panamericano
SA (BPNM4) , a Sao Paulo-based consumer lender that had to be bailed out
in November in the wake of accounting fraud allegations.  ‘Prolonged’ Effort  The task of slowing inflation back to target next year will
require a “prolonged” and “incisive” effort, Tombini said
yesterday. Consumer prices in Brazil are being fueled by a jump
in commodity prices and by domestic factors as well, Tombini
said. Services inflation has remained high, reflecting a heated
economy, he said.  The central bank will rely on a mix of policies, which
include higher interest rates, spending cuts and measures to
curb credit, to slow inflation back to the midpoint of its
target range next year, policy makers said in their quarterly
inflation report March 30.  Brazil targets an annual inflation rate of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff this week said she’s
“immensely worried” about accelerating prices and is
“committed to controlling inflation,” as her government is
ready to take measures whenever necessary. Brazil has demand
pressures that should be controlled, she said.  Consumer prices accelerated to 6.44 percent in the year
through mid-April, the fastest pace since November 2008.
Inflation may surpass the 6.5 percent upper limit of the target
between July and August this year, the central bank’s director
of economic policy, Carlos Hamilton, said last month.  Economists lifted their 2011 inflation forecast for the
seventh straight week to 6.34 percent, from 6.29 percent a week
earlier, according to an April 20 central bank survey of about
100 economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  