-- 
Browns’ Peyton Hillis Tops Michael Vick for Cover of Madden NFL Video Game

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-27T22:10:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/browns-peyton-hillis-tops-michael-vick-for-cover-of-madden-nfl-video-game.html
Peyton Hillis of the  Cleveland
Browns  was selected as the cover athlete for  Electronic Arts
Inc. (ERTS) ’s Madden NFL 12 video game, beating Michael Vick of the
 Philadelphia Eagles  in fan balloting.  Hillis, a 6-foot-1, 240-pound running back, emerged as a
fan favorite during his first year with the Browns last season,
when he rushed for 1,177 yards and 11 touchdowns.  Hillis received strong support from fans in Cleveland to
beat Vick in the final vote and become the improbable face of
the world’s best-selling sports video game. Hillis isn’t among
the 500 professional athletes ranked by Q Scores, which
Manhasset, New York-based Marketing Evaluations Inc., uses to
measure popularity and appeal among customers.  “I didn’t think I had a shot,” Hillis said after the
announcement, which was televised on Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN2.
“Winning this means a lot to me and my family. If it wasn’t for
(the fans), I wouldn’t have this. It just shows how big
 Cleveland  fans are to the players.”  Hillis, 25, received 66 percent of the vote to prevent Vick
from becoming the first player to have his likeness used twice
for the cover in the 22 years of the Madden NFL series. He also
denied the Eagles’ quarterback, who was the NFL’s Comeback
Player of the Year in 2010, his first major marketing
opportunity since pleading guilty to dog fighting charges in
2007.  ‘Very Deserving’  “It just shows he has a broad fan base and people admire
what he does,” Vick said. “He’s very deserving.”  Voting started last month as a strategy by EA to combat
negative fan sentiment caused by the NFL’s labor dispute. The
contest was held like a single-elimination tournament, with
players going head-to-head in each round of balloting.  Hillis reached the final as a No. 10 seed in his half of
the 32-player field, first beating fellow running back Ray Rice
of the Baltimore Ravens. He then beat quarterback Matt Ryan of
the  Atlanta Falcons  and running back Jamaal Charles of the
Kansas City Chiefs. In the semifinals, Hillis got 61 percent of
the fan vote in eliminating quarterback  Aaron Rodgers  of the
Super Bowl-champion Green Bay Packers.  Hillis then completed his run by beating Vick, who had
defeated DeMarcus Ware of the  Dallas Cowboys , Andre Johnson of
the Houston Texans, Patrick Willis of the  San Francisco 49ers 
and Adrian Peterson of the  Minnesota Vikings .  While Vick lobbied for fan support through his personal
website and via Twitter and Facebook, the Browns had a link to
vote for Hillis on their website.  Last year’s version of Madden, which featured New Orleans
Saints quarterback Drew Brees on the cover, sold more than 5
million copies in the U.S., according to the NPD Group, a Port
 Washington , New York-based market research firm. EA doesn’t
release dollar figures but said more than 90 million copies of
the Madden games have been sold since starting in 1989.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  