-- 
CAA Hired to Sell Naming Rights forSan Francisco 49ers’ Proposed Stadium

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-04-27T12:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/caa-hired-to-sell-naming-rights-forsan-francisco-49ers-proposed-stadium.html
Creative Artists Agency  has been
hired to sell naming rights for the $937 million football
stadium being planned for the  San Francisco  49ers in Santa
Clara,  California .  The  Santa Clara Stadium Authority  will use proceeds from
the naming rights to pay down the $330 million it has pledged
toward the cost of the 68,500-seat facility. CAA will receive a
commission of about 5 percent to 10 percent of the gross
proceeds from the naming rights agreement, according to an
authority report.  Michael Levine, co-head of  CAA Sports , a division of
privately held Creative Artists Agency based in Los Angeles,
said naming rights to a stadium in the heart of Silicon Valley -
- about 50 miles (80 kilometers) south of San Francisco --
should garner significant interest.  “It provides a unique opportunity to stand out from a
crowd,” Levine said yesterday in a phone interview. “You’re
talking about a team with a pretty incredible history in the No.
1 sport in this country, and the stadium will be the most
identifiable landmark in Silicon Valley; one of the most
important places in our country from a growth, innovation and
technology perspective.”  NFL teams have had mixed results finding corporations
willing to buy naming rights in recent years. The New York
Giants and New York Jets opened their $1.6 billion New
Meadowlands Stadium in East Rutherford,  New Jersey , last season
and the Dallas Cowboys opened a $1.2 billion  stadium  two years
ago, and neither has been able to find a naming-rights sponsor.  L.A. Deal  In February, Farmers Insurance Group agreed to put its name
on a proposed stadium designed to lure the NFL back to  Los
Angeles . The 30-year naming rights deal with Anschutz
Entertainment Group would be worth $700 million over 30 years,
the Los Angeles Times reported.  Neither Levine nor  John Vidalin, the 49ers’ Chief Sales
Officer , would estimate the worth of the naming rights. The team
wants one primary sponsor and a handful of lesser backers,
called founding partners, for specific areas of the stadium,
Vidalin said in a telephone interview.  In addition to putting its name on the building, a naming-
rights sponsor will be able to market itself as the exclusive
sponsor of the team, get access to behind-the-scenes events,
suites, hospitality, activation of its products at the stadium
and, where appropriate, contracts to supply products or services
to the stadium itself, Vidalin said.  Companies based in the region include Yahoo! Inc.,  Applied
Materials Inc. (AMAT) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  National Semiconductor Corp. (NSM) ,  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   “We feel real bullish about the market,” Levine said.
“The market has re-established itself and is in a place where
there is a good amount of enthusiasm from the buying
community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  