-- 
Carlyle Distributes $6.4 Billion as Stakes Gain 10% in Quarter

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-04-27T16:46:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/carlyle-distributes-6-4-billion-as-stakes-gain-10-in-quarter.html
Carlyle Group , the buyout firm that
may go public this year, distributed more than $6.4 billion to
investors in the first quarter, the most in its 24-year history,
as market rebounds made it easier to sell holdings.  The figure was disclosed by Carlyle in an April 15 letter
to investors that didn’t say how profitable the investments
were. The value of the Washington-based firm’s private-equity
holdings rose 10 percent in the quarter and 46 percent in
12 months, according to the letter, beating broad market gauges.  Carlyle said it sees more opportunities to put money to
work, a view questioned this week by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman , who said rising prices are making
it more difficult for the world’s largest private-equity firm to
find profitable deals. Carlyle, ranked second by assets under
management, committed or invested $4.5 billion in 12 private-
equity deals last quarter, according to the letter.  “Now is an opportune time to put capital to work,”
founders William E. Conway, Daniel A. D’Aniello and David M. Rubenstein said in the letter. The firm has “endeavored to find
attractive investment opportunities which we believe will
ultimately result in superior absolute investment returns.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index returned 5.9 percent
including dividends for the quarter and 16 percent in 12 months.  Leveraged buyout firms raised about $19.5 billion from IPOs
during the first three months of this year, more than half of
the total they amassed during all of last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and Preqin Ltd. The shares of nine
buyout-backed IPOs last quarter gained an average of 11 percent
in the first month of trading.  Diversified Revenue  Both Carlyle and Blackstone have diversified beyond
leveraged buyouts to create a more stable revenue stream and
appeal to outside shareholders. Blackstone went public in 2007,
just before the credit crisis brought dealmaking to a halt.
Carlyle is considering a public offering as early as this year.  The firm agreed in January to buy AlpInvest Partners NV, a
Dutch  money manager  that oversees about 32 billion euros
($44 billion) in private-equity funds, to expand asset
management in  Europe . In December, it bought 55 percent of hedge
fund Claren Road Asset Management, which had “positive”
performance in the first quarter, according to the letter.  Carlyle’s founders said while they agreed with most
guidelines from the Institutional Limited Partners Association,
which seeks to give fund clients more rights while reducing
fees, those rules shouldn’t be a “set of rigid requirements.”
The guidelines, which were updated in January and incorporate
feedback from managers, garnered support from Carlyle
competitors including New York-based KKR & Co., which endorsed
the document in March.  “Certain issues are better determined by GPs and LPs based
upon the circumstances unique to a particular firm and/or
fund,” the founders said, referring to general partners and
limited partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  