-- 
Olympian Carl Lewis Sues After New Jersey Official Halts State Senate Bid

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z
-- 
2011-04-27T21:04:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/carl-lewis-files-federal-lawsuit-after-official-halts-bid-for-n-j-senate.html
Olympic gold medalist Carl Lewis
will get a hearing tomorrow before a federal judge on his
lawsuit challenging a ruling by  New Jersey ’s top election
official that he can’t run for the state Senate.  Secretary of State Kim Guadagno ruled yesterday that Lewis
failed to meet the four-year residency requirement for
candidates. Lewis, 49, who grew up in Willingboro, New Jersey,
claims that he is now a state resident after living in Texas and
California. Lewis competed for the U.S. in four Olympics as a
sprinter and long jumper, winning nine gold medals.  Lewis, a Democrat who wants to run for the 8th District
Senate seat, claimed in a federal lawsuit that Guadagno, a
Republican who is also lieutenant governor, violated the U.S.
Constitution by removing his name from the ballot. A judge in
Camden, New Jersey, will hold a hearing tomorrow on Lewis’s
request for an order barring his removal from the ballot.  “Lewis is likely to prevail on the merits of his
constitutional challenge to New Jersey’s four-year residency
requirement for candidates for the New Jersey Senate,” his
lawyers said today in court papers. “Lewis would suffer
irreparable harm if he was not permitted to remain on the
ballot.”  Lewis said in a complaint filed yesterday that Guadagno’s
order violates the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th
Amendment. U.S. District Judge Noel Hillman said in an order
today that Guadagno tomorrow must show why he should not
temporarily bar the printing of ballots without Lewis’s name.
The ballots are scheduled to be mailed tomorrow.  Lack of Evidence  Hillman’s order said that while Lewis has “raised a
substantial question” on the constitutionality of the residency
requirement, he has failed so far “to demonstrate sufficient
evidence regarding the immediacy of any irreparable harm.”  Lewis also filed an appeal today to New Jersey’s appellate
division, arguing that the two Republicans officials who
objected to his candidacy lack legal standing. Lewis’s lawyers
said New Jersey case law bars a political party from injecting
itself into an opposing party’s primary election process.  In an interview with the  Philadelphia Inquirer , Lewis said
Republican Governor  Chris Christie  tried to talk him out of
running on April 10, a day before he entered the race. Lewis
said Christie’s staff also threatened to cut an athletic program
he wanted to start.  ‘Inflated the Tone’  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, said in an e-
mail today that Lewis “has completely misrepresented and
inflated the tone and content of his phone call with the
governor -- a phone call Lewis himself initiated.”  Michael Muller, a spokesman for Lewis, didn’t immediately
respond to e-mails and calls requesting comment.  On April 15, two Republican officials objected to Lewis’s
petition to run in the June 7 primary. The district, in southern
New Jersey outside of Philadelphia, has traditionally elected
Republicans. Its boundaries were redrawn this year.  Dawn Marie Addiego, a Republican, was an assemblyman when
she was appointed in December to fill the seat of Phil Haines,
who was appointed by Christie to become a judge.  An administrative law judge, John Schuster III, held a
hearing April 19 about the challenge, ruling the next day that
Lewis should be on the ballot.  Lewis, a graduate of Willingboro High School, attended the
 University of Houston , where he was a track star. He continued
to train in Houston for the  Olympic Games  in 1984, 1988, 1992
and 1996, according to his lawsuit. He moved to California in
1999, his complaint said.  California to New Jersey  In July 2005, Lewis moved from California to  Mount Laurel ,
New Jersey, buying a condominium for himself, according to his
complaint, and one for his mother a month later. He got a New
Jersey driver’s license in 2006, and bought a home in Medford,
New Jersey, on Nov. 17, 2007, “where he continues to reside
today and pays property taxes and utility bills.”  In May 2007, he volunteered as an assistant track coach at
Willingboro High School, and he attended church in Camden in
2009, according to his complaint.  In her 15-page opinion, Guadagno overruled Schuster, saying
his decision was “an abdication of his adjudicatory
responsibilities.” She said Lewis failed to prove he lived in
New Jersey for four years prior to the Nov. 8 general election.
She challenged several aspects of Lewis’s case.  She said Lewis moved to  California  in 1997 to start an
acting career, and he owned three homes there as of Nov. 8,
2007. He sold one home in 2007, another last July, and he still
owns a rental property there, according to her opinion.  California Elections  He was registered to vote in California as of Nov. 8, 2007,
and he voted there in three elections in 2008 and one in 2009,
she said. Each time, she said, Lewis certified he was a
California resident. He paid California income taxes from 2002
through at least 2008, and possibly 2009, she said.  Lewis “admitted that his business is in California,” and
he filed an annual report last September saying his foundation
was paying California taxes, according to Guadagno’s ruling. He
did not register to vote in New Jersey until April 11, the day
he filed his candidacy, she said.  As of the four-year cutoff, she said, Lewis “did not yet
own his home in New Jersey, did not otherwise live in New
Jersey, didn’t file his taxes in New Jersey, was not registered
to vote in New Jersey and did not have his business in New
Jersey.”  Republican Spokesman  Rick Gorka, a spokesman for state Republicans, cited
Guadagno’s opinion in a telephone interview, saying Lewis
“owned homes in California, paid taxes in California and was a
registered voter in California. It’s pretty clear that by voting
in 2009 in California, Carl Lewis was a resident of California,
not of New Jersey.”  The state Democratic chairman, John Wisniewski, said in a
statement that the case is “the latest example of the Christie
administration believing they are above the law.”  “If it wasn’t bad enough that the governor tried to get
Carl Lewis out of the race before it started, now it appears
they realize they can’t win at the ballot box and they would do
anything to deprive the voters of this choice,” he said.  The case is Lewis v. Guadagno, 11-cv-2381, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in  New York 
at   edeprez@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 