-- 
Cenovus Seeks Partners in Asia, U.S. to Help With Oil Sands

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-04-27T20:25:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/cenovus-seeks-partners-in-asia-u-s-to-help-with-oil-sands.html
Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) , Canada’s
fifth-largest energy company, said it is discussing partnership
opportunities with companies in  Asia , the U.S. and Canada.  “What we want to achieve is to look for alternative
commercial arrangements to bring forward value for
shareholders,” Chief Executive Officer Brian Ferguson said in
an interview today.  A deal would likely be worth billions of dollars, he said.
declining to name any possible partners. The partnerships would
be used to develop the company’s oil sands in northern Alberta.  Energy companies from Asia and  Europe  have expanded in
Canada to take advantage of the world’s third-largest reserves
of crude after  Saudi Arabia  and Venezuela, according to the
Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers, which represents
oil and gas companies. Calgary-based Cenovus has “decades
worth” of bitumen in  Alberta ’s Athabasca region, Ferguson said.  In 2010, China Petrochemical Corp. paid $4.65 billion to
buy a stake in Syncrude Canada Ltd., and Total SA paid $1.74
billion to buy into Suncor Energy Inc.’s oil-sands developments.
Oilsands Quest Inc. said in January it’s in discussions with
potential partners to develop assets in Alberta and Saskatchewan.  Cenovus said today that first-quarter profit fell 91
percent to C$47 million ($49.2 million). The company spent C$713
million to drill exploration wells and expand production at its
Christina Lake and Foster Creek operations and was hurt by a
lack of pipeline capacity to ship oil.  Cenovus fell 11 cents to C$36.12 at 4:20 p.m. on the
Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  