-- 
CenturyLink to Buy Savvis for $2.5 Billion in Cloud Expansion

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r   a n d   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-04-27T22:06:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/centurylink-agrees-to-buy-savvis-in-2-5-billion-cash-stock-transaction.html
CenturyLink Inc. (CTL) , the Louisiana-
based fixed-line phone and Internet company, agreed to buy
 Savvis Inc. (SVVS)  for $2.5 billion to add services that let business
customers store and access data and applications online.  Savvis stockholders will receive $40 a share, consisting of
$30 in cash and about $10 in CenturyLink shares, the companies
said today in a statement. That’s 11 percent more than Savvis’s
closing price yesterday. CenturyLink will also assume about $700
million of debt.  The purchase lets CenturyLink Chief Executive Officer Glen Post add so-called cloud-computing services as he seeks to
offset declining home-phone demand and challenge larger rivals
such as  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  Verizon agreed in January to
buy Savvis competitor Terremark Worldwide Inc. for $1.4 billion.  “It’s a smart strategic move as it should help mitigate
CenturyLink’s revenue decline,” said  Chris Larsen , a Piper
Jaffray & Co. analyst in New York, who has an “overweight”
rating on CenturyLink shares. “Without this transaction, 2012
revenues would decline.”  Savvis rose $3.27, or 9.1 percent, to $39.29 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading at 4 p.m. New York time. The shares have
gained 54 percent this year. Savvis CEO Jim Ousley said in
February telecommunications companies were shopping for
companies like his.  CenturyLink, based in Monroe,  Louisiana , fell 18 cents to
$40.14 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Rising Cloud Demand  The buyers of more than 100 U.S. telecom-services providers
over the past two years paid an average premium of 25 percent
compared with the average price of 20 trading days before the
deal’s announcement, according to Bloomberg data. CenturyLink
agreed to pay a premium of 10 percent on that basis.  CenturyLink will pay 14 times Savvis’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The median ratio
for nine buyers in comparable deals was 6.5 times over the past
two years.  Savvis, based in Town & Country,  Missouri , is set to boost
revenue from its hosting business by more than 10 percent this
year, Ousley said in February. Hosting accounted for almost
three-quarters of Savvis’s $933 million in revenue last year.
Today, the company said its first-quarter net loss shrank to
$1.8 million, while sales rose 19 percent to $257 million.  Growth Through Takeovers  “It’s the right move at the right time,” Post said on a
conference call. “Savvis can make a difference in our
company.”  Savvis had considered other offers and has a responsibility
to consider others that may yet come in, Ousley said in an
interview. Savvis may have to pay CenturyLink $85 million under
certain circumstances if Savvis terminates the current deal,
according to a securities filing.  CenturyLink’s offer is at a favorable price, said David Silverman, managing director of Greenwich, Connecticut-based
Blue Harbor Group LP, which holds about 2 million Savvis shares,
or 3.5 percent. The firm began buying Savvis shares about a year
ago for between $15 and $20 a share.  CenturyLink and Savvis have negotiated a breakup fee,
payable if the transaction fails to go through, Post said. He
declined to say what the fee was. CenturyLink said it will
finance the cash portion of the deal with a $2 billion bridge
loan.  Buying Spree  CenturyLink plans to combine Savvis with its own hosting
business, and appoint Ousley to run the unit. The companies said
the deal will probably close in the second half.  Post said in an interview he expected “a minimal impact”
on the combined companies’ workforce, declining to give details.
The deal will increase CenturyLink’s workforce to about 50,000.  CenturyLink’s $400 million of 7.6 percent bonds due
September 2039 decreased 3.01 cents to 102.5 cents on the dollar
as of 1:37 p.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Acquisitions have helped CenturyLink almost triple revenue
since 2008 even as the market for home phones declines amid
rising mobile and digital voice service. In 2009, the company
purchased Embarq Corp. for about $12 billion, and this month, it
completed the purchase of Qwest Communications International
Inc. for more than $20 billion.  “This transaction in our view certainly increases the risk
of integration,” said Michael McCormack, an analyst at Nomura
Securities International Inc. in New York, referring to the
Savvis purchase. “Will this be a distraction from the
integration of Qwest, which is the most important transaction?”  Including Qwest, Embarq and now Savvis, Post agreed to
spend $38.7 billion on acquisitions over the past five years,
according to Bloomberg data. In the five years before that, his
purchases amounted to $2.28 billion.  In the Savvis deal, CenturyLink was advised by  Barclays
Capital  and Bank Of America Corp., while Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen
& Katz and Jones, Walker, Waechter, Poitevent, Carrere & Denegre
LLP provided it with legal help. Savvis’s financial adviser was
Morgan Stanley, and  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati  gave it
legal assistance.  (The companies held conference call today to discuss the
deal. For a replay, go to  http://www.centurylink.com  or
 http://www.savvis.com .)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  