-- 
CFTC Proposes Protecting Swaps User Margin From Peer Default

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-04-27T16:03:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/cftc-proposes-protecting-swap-user-margin-from-peer-default.html
The Commodity Futures Trading
Commission approved a proposal to allow swaps users who post
collateral to a clearinghouse to have their margin protected
against another investor’s bankruptcy, a move that may increase
trading costs.  A clearinghouse “would have recourse against the
collateral of defaulting customers, but not against the
collateral of non-defaulting customers” should both a futures
broker and one or more of its customers fail, the CFTC said in a
proposal summary released today.  BlackRock Inc. , the world’s
largest asset manager, advocated in a November letter to the
CFTC for this approach because it afforded protection against
“fellow customer risk.”  That will lead to clearinghouses requiring more money from
swaps users in either margin or a separate type of fund known as
guaranty, said Lauren Teigland-Hunt, managing partner of New
York-based Teigland-Hunt LLP, a law firm that represents hedge
funds and institutional investors.  “It basically reduces the amount of funds available to
them to fund a default, so they need to raise the funds another
way,” she said in an interview.  Chairman  Gary Gensler  and Commissioners Bart Chilton,
Michael Dunn and  Scott O’Malia  voted to approve the proposed
rule, with Commissioner Jill Sommers voting against it. The
proposal now enters a public comment period, then the commission
could issue a final rule.  Mandatory Clearing  After the 2008 default of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
one of the largest swaps dealers, hedge fund and asset manager
customers lost billions of dollars because their margin wasn’t
segregated within the bank. Swaps clearing, which is now
voluntary, will become mandatory for most over-the-counter
derivatives under the Dodd-Frank Act passed in July. Congress
acted to regulate the market after it contributed to and
complicated efforts to resolve the financial crisis.  The proposal differs from how futures margin is handled by
clearinghouses. In that case, if a customer of a futures broker
causes the broker to default, the other customers of the broker
can be tapped for margin payments to cover the shortfall.  Clearinghouses , which are capitalized by their members, are
meant to reduce systemic risk by absorbing and sharing
responsibility if a member defaults on its payment obligations.
They use daily margin calls to keep accounts current and provide
regulators with access to prices and positions.  The CFTC also is asking for comments on other margin
protection proposals. One plan would allow the margin of non-
defaulting customers to be used only if the loss can’t be made
whole with the use of the clearinghouse’s own money and
dedicated payments of other customers, known as guaranty funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 