-- 
CFTC, SEC Propose Exempting Insurance From Swaps Regulation

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-04-27T17:26:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/cftc-may-exempt-insurance-heating-oil-contracts-from-swap-rule.html
Financial regulators voted to
propose rules excluding insurance policies, home heating oil
contracts and forwards tied to commodities from swaps
regulations required under the Dodd-Frank Act.  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  and
 Securities and Exchange Commission , at separate  Washington 
meetings today, proposed a rule defining which types of trades
will face rules aimed at limiting risk and boosting transparency
in the $583 trillion global swaps market. The proposal also
determines when transactions fall under the jurisdiction of the
SEC or CFTC. SEC commissioners voted 5-0 and the CFTC voted 4-1
to open the proposal to public comment.  Dodd-Frank, enacted last year by President  Barack Obama ,
gave the agencies parallel authority over the swaps market after
largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.
The CFTC will oversee swaps tied to interest rates and
commodities, while the SEC primarily will oversee swaps tied to
loans or other securities. Derivatives, including swaps, are
contracts tied to underlying assets, currencies or events, such
as a change in weather or a company default.  “The definitions we propose today balance several policy
and legal issues in a way I believe is practical, takes into
account the specific nature of derivatives contracts, and is
consistent with existing securities regulations,” SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  said in a statement before the vote.  Currency Options  Under the proposal, credit-default swaps tied to indexes of
nine or more securities would be regulated by the CFTC, while
such swaps linked to narrower indexes would be overseen by the
SEC. Foreign currency options and currency swaps would be
regulated as swaps under Dodd-Frank, while the Treasury
Department is considering whether to exclude foreign exchange
swaps and forwards for most of the law’s clearing and trading
requirements.  Transactions regulated by the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  aren’t included in the swap definition rule and would
be subject to a separate waiver process.  The proposal also sets up a system for overseeing mixed
swaps that don’t fall exclusively under the oversight of the
CFTC or SEC. Swaps that aren’t settled by a clearinghouse and in
which one party is registered with the two agencies may be
subject to both securities and commodities laws. For other mixed
swaps, including those that are cleared, a trader can seek a
joint order from the agencies permitting regulation by either
the SEC or CFTC instead of facing two sets of regulations.  Capital Rules  Separately, the CFTC voted 4-1 to propose rules for how
much capital non-bank dealers and major participants in swaps
must set aside to offset the risk in trades. Dealers and major
swap participants that are also regulated by the CFTC as brokers
for futures would need at least $20 million in  Tier 1 capital .  Dealers and major swap participants that are subsidiaries
of bank holding companies would face the same  capital
requirements  set by the  Federal Reserve  and other banking
regulators.  During the debate over Dodd-Frank last year, then-Senator
 Blanche Lincoln , an Arkansas Democrat, sought to limit taxpayer
money supporting risky derivatives trades within banks that get
federal support, such as  deposit insurance . Separately
capitalized units created to handle riskier swaps would be
regulated by the CFTC under a so-called push-out provision in
Dodd-Frank aimed at limiting such trading within firms that
receive federal support.  The proposal would set up a third series of regulations for
all other non-bank dealers and major swap participants. Those
firms would need to set aside at least $20 million in tangible
net equity instead of Tier 1 capital.  “There may be some regulatory arbitrage,” CFTC Chairman
 Gary Gensler  said at today’s meeting. “It will be a lower
capital standard for these nonbank commercial dealers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  