-- 
Chile Inflation Expectations Plunge as Peso Hits Three-Year High

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-04-27T17:12:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/chile-inflation-expectations-plunge-as-peso-hits-three-year-high.html
Chilean inflation expectations fell
the most in a year and the peso touched a new three-year high
after a report showed traders forecast the central bank will
raise its benchmark interest rate to 5 percent next month.  The peso climbed 0.1 percent to 462.33 per  U.S. dollar  from
462.67 yesterday, the strongest closing level since April 2008.
Breakeven inflation rates fell as yields on inflation-linked
swaps rose.  The appreciation of the peso reduces the real cost of
Chilean imports, such as oil, helping tame inflation
expectations. Two-year breakeven inflation, which reflects views
of average price rises, fell the most since April 2010 after
traders in a central bank survey said they expect a third
straight half-point interest-rate increase in May.  “The exchange rate is helping and the market is pricing in
another central bank rate hike,” said German Fritsch, head of
trading at Deutsche Bank AG in Santiago. “People are finally
convincing themselves that the breakeven levels were
ridiculously high given what the central bank is doing.”  Two-year breakeven declined 18 basis points to 3.74
percent, the lowest since the first week of January as of 12:41
p.m. New York time. One-year breakeven fell 26 basis points, the
most since November, to 3.90 percent, the lowest since Jan. 12.  Economists at Santiago-based brokerage Celfin Capital
increased their 2011 inflation forecast to 5.2 percent  from 3.7
percent. Economic growth may reach 6.5 percent, they wrote
today, the most since 1997.  Capital Controls   After central bank President Jose De Gregorio yesterday
downplayed the likelihood of implementing controls on capital
flows, the peso strengthened past 465, the level that on Jan. 3
coincided with Gregorio’s announcement of a $12 billion dollar-
buying plan.  “Yesterday was a historic day as the peso broke through
the very strong support level at 465,” said Cristian Donoso, a
trader at Banchile Inversiones in Santiago. “We saw a lot of
positions closing and stop-loss selling of the dollar.”  Chile’s government is monitoring currency appreciation that
affects the competitiveness of the world’s biggest copper-
exporting nation, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said today.  The peso, which has strengthened along with other
commodity-driven currencies, would be even stronger without
measures taken by the central bank and the government, Larrain
said, adding that authorities will continue “working” on
foreign exchange.  Daily Purchases  The central bank is buying $50 million a day of U.S.
currency in a bid to slow the peso’s rise and Larrain has
announced plans to shave $750 million from this year’s budget,
helping slow inflation and curb peso gains.  “Today the  exchange rate  is higher than it would be
without these measures,” Larrain said about steps the
government and central bank have taken to soften the peso.
“Yesterday the exchange rate was about 462 pesos. It probably
would have been lower than 450 pesos without these measures.”  The bank paid an average of 462.02 pesos per dollar for $50
million today.  The central bank may increase the amount of dollars it buys
daily in its new financing calendar, which runs for a month from
May 9.  Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in New York, today told clients in an e-mailed note that he
wouldn’t rule out an increase to $80 million a day. Economists
at Banco Santander SA in  New York  wrote that the central bank
had “minimal room” to increase the measure.  The median forecast of 54 traders and investors in a
central bank survey published today was that policy makers, who
have already raised the benchmark rate more than at any other
major central bank tracked by Bloomberg in the past 12 months,
would increase by 50 basis points in May to 5 percent.  The bank will raise the rate to 6 percent in six months’
time before halting for at least 18 months until May 2013,
according to the traders in the survey.  Foreign investors in the Chilean forwards market had a $1.3
billion bet that the peso would weaken against the dollar as of
April 25, according to central bank data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  