-- 
China Studies Curbing Developers’ Profits to Fight Bubble, China News Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-27T04:19:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/china-studies-curbing-developers-profits-to-fight-bubble-china-news-says.html
China  is studying ways to control
developers’ profits to keep home prices at a reasonable level,
the China News Service reported today, citing the National
Development and Reform Commission.  The government is studying real-estate companies’ costs and
profitability and plans to apply a 1995 regulation on curbing
excess profits to commercial housing, the  report  said, citing Xu
Kunlin, head of the NDRC’s pricing supervision department. The
move is part of measures being considered to regulate
developers’ pricing practices, the report said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said this month in a cabinet  meeting 
that the country faces challenges including rising property
prices in many cities even as real estate transactions shrink.
About 40 cities said last month they will cap new  home prices 
below annual economic and disposable per-capita income growth or
keep them steady following the central government’s measures to
rein in housing values.  “The pressure on the government to tighten property
controls keeps rising since there has yet to be a broad,
substantial drop in home prices,” said Cui Juan, a Beijing-
based analyst at China Minzu Securities Co. “Some projects
built on land acquired a few years ago indeed have relatively
high profit margins, but margins will surely trend lower going
forward as land costs have risen.”  A phone call to NDRC spokesman Li Pumin’s office wasn’t
answered.  Slower Gains  Profit at China Vanke Co., the country’s biggest developer
by market value, rose 37 percent last year on strong demand for
homes, defying government curbs to stem an asset bubble.
Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd., the nation’s second-biggest
developer by sales volume, posted a sevenfold increase in 2010
profit.  New home prices in Beijing rose 4.9 percent in March from a
year earlier, easing from a 6.8 percent gain in February, the
statistics bureau said April 18. Of the 70 cities monitored by
the government, 67 cities posted gains, down from 68 in the
first two months, the data showed.  The nation may require down payments of 50 percent for
first-home purchases if property prices continue to rise, the
China Securities Journal reported today, citing an unidentified
loan official at a domestic bank. Such a requirement is unlikely
in the short term, the Chinese-language newspaper cited the
person as saying.  The government has raised the minimum down payment for
second-home purchases this year and levied taxes on residences
in Shanghai and Chongqing. Beijing and Guangzhou imposed
restrictions on housing purchases in February, while the central
bank raised  interest rates  twice this year.  1995 Regulation  The southern Chinese city of Haikou will not ease home
purchase restrictions, local news website  Hinews.cn  reported
today, citing Du Haiying, head of Haikou’s housing and urban-
rural development bureau, denying a media report that the city
may remove such limits. Haikou is considering separating
tourism-related properties, such as hotels and hotel-style
apartments, from regular homes and not include these properties
under the city’s home buying limits, Hinews.cn reported, citing
Dai Kaiquan, another official from the housing bureau.  China enacted a  regulation  in 1995 to curb excessive
profits on commodities and services that have “major impact”
on the economy and society or have “close ties” with people’s
livelihood, according to the report. The nation’s pricing
regulator can adjust the items covered.  --Zhang Dingmin. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Malcolm Scott  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story: Zhang
Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Andreea
Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  