-- 
China Gas Directors’ Ousting Was ‘Disgraceful,’ Hai Xia Says

-- B y   P a u l   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-27T19:25:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/china-gas-directors-ousting-was-disgraceful-hai-xia-says.html
Hai Xia Finance Holdings Ltd. said
it is “very disappointed” in the April 26 dismissal of two
executives on the board of  China Gas Holdings Ltd. (384) , in letters
to two  Hong Kong  newspapers.  The proposal to remove Li Xiaoyun and Xu Ying, approved by
shareholders at a meeting in Hong Kong, was “disgraceful
behavior” by some  China  Gas directors, investor Hai Xia said in
the letters to the South China Morning Post and Hong Kong
Economic Journal. Taiwan-based Hai Xia called for Hong Kong
regulators and auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu to investigate
the directors and make the findings public.  China Gas has said Li and Xu were ousted because they
withheld information about the arrest of two executives. Former
Managing Director Liu Ming Hui, who was detained by Shenzhen
police with Executive President Huang Yong on Dec. 18, was also
removed from the board.  Ousting the directors “was in the best interests of the
company as a whole,” China Gas said in a filing to Hong Kong’s
stock exchange yesterday evening. The removals “were not aimed
at Hai Xia Finance,” it said.  The decision won’t affect the company’s operations or
acquisitions in China, and the gas supplier will continue to
maintain good relationships with shareholders and business
partners, according to the statement.  Hai Xia, which owns about 4 percent of China Gas, asked
shareholders including  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , GAIL
( India ) Ltd., Oman Oil Co. and the Asian Development Bank to
oppose the dismissal of Li and Xu. China Gas said it has talked
to its investors about strengthening corporate governance and
improving internal controls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Gordon in Hong Kong at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  