-- 
China’s B Shares Drop Most in 5 Months on International Board Speculation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-27T08:51:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/china-s-b-shares-drop-most-in-5-months-on-international-board-speculation.html
China ’s foreign-currency shares
plunged the most in five months on speculation a 19 percent
rally over the past year was excessive and the introduction of a
foreign companies’ stocks board would make them less attractive.  The  Shanghai  SE B Share Index, comprising B shares which
are traded in U.S. dollars, fell 5.3 percent to 303.26 at the 3
p.m. close, the most since Nov. 12. Hainan Airlines Co. plunged
7.7 percent to $1.06. Shanghai Jinjiang International Hotels
Development Co., China’s largest hotel operator, slid 3 percent
to $1.67. The Shanghai SE A Share Index of yuan-denominated
stocks, dropped 0.4 percent.  “We hear that an international board in Shanghai is
getting closer to becoming a reality,” said Tal Haparnas, vice
president of Knight Capital Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. “This makes
B shares less attractive.”  Shanghai Mayor Han Zheng said last month the foreign stocks
board will be introduced soon.  China’s regulators  may allow 10
foreign and overseas-listed Chinese companies to sell shares in
Shanghai under a trial program after two years of preparation,
the 21st Century Business Herald reported on April 22, citing a
draft plan. HSBC Holdings Plc,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and Bank
of East Asia Co. plan to accelerate preparations for listing in
Shanghai, the Shanghai branch of the China Banking Regulatory
Commission said in an e-mailed statement this month.  Shanghai’s B shares jumped on April 21 to the highest since
January 2008. They have surged 22 percent since Aug. 17, when
Hao Hong, China International Capital Corp.’s global equity
strategist, said they were cheap compared with their A-share
rivals and that the “valuation discrepancy” would be erased.
A-shares, which are open to domestic investors and approved
foreign institutions, have risen 9.4 percent over that time,
while the Shanghai Composite Index, comprising both A and B
shares, added 9.5 percent.  B Shares Valuations  The gauge of B shares is valued at 18.6 times reported
earnings, compared with the multiple of 16.8 times for the
Shanghai Composite, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  B shares were introduced in the early 1990s as a means for
domestic companies to raise foreign currency. They can only be
bought and sold by domestic individuals and overseas investors.
Domestic institutional investors are barred from buying these
stocks. The index of Shenzhen B shares that are denominated in
 Hong Kong  dollars slid 2.6 percent to 814.19 today.  “The international board speculation and B shares’ bigger
gains both weighed on sentiment,” said Chen Wenzhao, a
Shanghai-based strategist at China Merchants Securities Co.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
-0- Apr/27/ :51 GMT 