-- 
China’s Wen to Spur Investment, Tap Resources in Southeast Asia

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-04-27T01:36:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/china-s-wen-to-spur-investment-tap-resources-in-southeast-asia.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  starts a
four-day tour of Southeast Asia today during which agreements to
spur investment and tap the region’s natural resources are
expected to be sealed.  Wen will witness as many as eight deals on the first leg of
his trip in  Malaysia , spanning the economy, infrastructure and
education, Foreign Ministry official Hu Zhengyue told reporters
in Beijing on April 21. Agreements on plantations, coal and
banking will be signed in Indonesia, Hu said.  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak last year identified
$444 billion of private sector-led projects, ranging from mass
rail to nuclear power, to support this decade in a bid to boost
growth and attract foreign investment. Wen will encourage
companies to target the energy, agriculture and fishery
industries and seal a deal on mutual recognition of academic
degrees, Chai Xi,  China ’s ambassador to Malaysia told reporters
in  Kuala Lumpur  on April 22.  “We’ve received a very strong indication of investment
interest from China,” Jalilah Baba, director-general of
Malaysian Investment Development Authority, or MIDA, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. It is targeting more value-added
industries than in the past, such as renewable energy and
chemical products, she said.  Chinese foreign investment in the Southeast Asian nation’s
manufacturing sector jumped to 639.5 million ringgit ($214
million) last year from 162.2 million ringgit in 2009 during the
global economic slump, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Seven-Fold Leap  It was also Malaysia’s biggest trading partner last year,
with bilateral commerce rising more than seven-fold over the
past decade to $45.7 billion, according to a Malaysian
government statement yesterday. China was the country’s biggest
source of imports and second-largest destination for exports
including  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME) ’s palm oil, the statement said.  China has been scouring the world for natural resources to
feed an economy that has grown by an average 10 percent annually
since 1978. In return, it has pledged financing and assistance
with construction.  Chinese President Hu Jintao agreed to aid Malaysia with
railway, bridge, water and energy projects when he visited the
Southeast Asian country in November 2009.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., the world’s
biggest lender by market capitalization, started operations in
the country last year after winning a commercial banking license
during Hu’s trip. The Beijing-based bank was the first overseas
lender to get a permit since  Bank of China Ltd. (601988)  nine years ago.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the world’s second-largest
lender by market value, has expressed interest in buying
Malaysian financial group EON Capital Bhd., two people with
knowledge of the matter said yesterday. Yu Baoyue, a press
officer at the lender, declined to comment in Beijing.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 