-- 
Chrysler Said to Plan to Borrow $6 Billion to Pay Off U.S. Government Debt

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s ,   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-04-27T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/chrysler-said-to-plan-to-borrow-6-billion-to-refinance-government-debts.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker operated by  Fiat SpA (F) , is planning to borrow about $6
billion to pay off government debt as Fiat moves to increase its
ownership, people familiar with the plan said.  Details are still being completed on the debt and may be
announced as soon as next week, said the people, who asked not
to be identified revealing private plans. Chrysler has said its
effective interest on the borrowings from the U.S. is as high as
14 percent and as much as 20 percent on the Canadian debt.  Reducing the interest expense should improve profits.
 Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both automakers,
is slated to release Chrysler’s first-quarter results on May 2.
He is pushing Chrysler to earn as much as $500 million this
year, its first annual profit since emerging from bankruptcy
reorganization in 2009.  Eileen Wunderlich, a spokeswoman for the Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based automaker, declined to comment on refinancing
plans.  The refinancing plan includes $1.27 billion from Fiat as
part of its plan to execute an option to increase its ownership
stake to 46 percent from 30 percent after the governments are
repaid, said the people familiar with the plan.  The face values of the debts to the U.S. and Canadian
governments are $7.53 billion, according to Chrysler’s Feb. 25
Securities and Exchange Commission filing. Those debts must be
repaid before Marchionne can exercise his option to purchase the
16 percent stake.  Option Plan  Fiat said last week it aims to exercise that option in the
second quarter. The automaker may hold an initial public
offering this year or next year, Marchionne has said.  The new debt may be a mixture of loans and bonds, the
people said. Marchionne wants it completed by the end of May and
Chrysler executives may begin a roadshow soon after the
announcement to pitch the debt as an investment, they said.  Chrysler is also expected to get about $2 billion in
revolving loans, one of the people said.  Fiat gained control of Chrysler as part of the U.S.
automaker’s government-backed restructuring. In exchange for
sharing management and technology and for reaching operational
milestones, Fiat receives as much as 35 percent of Chrysler. It
currently has 30 percent. Marchionne has said he expects to get
the final 5 percent by the end of the year.  In conjunction with the purchase option, the Turin, Italy-
based automaker would hold a 51 percent stake.  Chrysler’s capital infusion may give the U.S. Department of
Energy “additional comfort” about the automaker’s financial
structure, Marchionne told analysts last week. He said that he
expects that after the Fiat stake increase is completed,
Chrysler will be able to make progress and obtain as much as
$3.5 billion in low-interest loans.  Reuters reported yesterday that the details will be
announced May 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  