-- 
Panetta Selected by Obama to Head Pentagon as Petraeus Is Chosen for CIA

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-27T21:57:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/cia-director-panetta-selected-by-obama-to-head-pentagon-replacing-gates.html
President  Barack Obama  has chosen
CIA Director Leon Panetta to take over the Pentagon from Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  and will nominate General David Petraeus
to lead the spy agency, an administration official said.  Obama also plans to name veteran diplomat Ryan Crocker as
the next U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan and Lieutenant General
John Allen to replace Petraeus as commander of U.S. and allied
forces there, the official said, briefing reporters on condition
of anonymity.  The president will announce the nominations tomorrow, the
official said. Obama is reshaping his security team as the U.S.
undergoes a transition in Afghanistan, with the withdrawal of an
unspecified number of troops beginning in July, and as it winds
down operations in  Iraq .  “This decision says to me we are ‘steady as you go,’”
 Bruce Riedel , a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington, said in an interview.  The president’s choices are likely to get bipartisan
support in the Senate during the confirmation process.
Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina , a member of
the Armed Service Committee, said in a statement that all four
are “experienced people with unique capabilities,” and that he
“could not be more pleased with these selections.”  Gates Departing  Gates, who previously announced his intention to leave his
post this year, will depart June 30, and Panetta would take over
July 1, pending Senate confirmation, according to the official.
The nomination of Petraeus would be submitted during the summer
with the expectation that he would take over at the Central
Intelligence Agency by the beginning of September, the official
said.  That would leave Petraeus, who would retire from the
military to take the CIA post, in a position to help manage the
transition in  Afghanistan . He is the architect of U.S.
counterinsurgency strategy and oversaw an escalation of American
troops in Iraq.  The timing for Crocker’s nomination hasn’t been set, the
official said. Crocker, 61, served as ambassador in Iraq from
2007 to 2009 and was the top U.S. diplomat in Pakistan before
that. He currently is dean of the Bush School of Government and
Public Service at  Texas A&M University .  Central Command  Allen is the deputy commander of the U.S. Central Command,
based in  Florida . Allen filled in as acting commander last year
when Obama moved Petraeus from head of Central Command to take
charge of the war in Afghanistan.  Allen will serve as special assistant to Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in the
interim to prepare for assuming the post in Afghanistan on Sept.
1, the official said.  Panetta, 72, was named director of the CIA in February
2009. He previously served under President  Bill Clinton  as
budget director and as White House chief of staff for three
years. He also was a U.S. representative from  California  from
1977 to 1993, and during part of that tenure served as chairman
of the House Budget Committee.  Panetta’s challenge will be to convince the public that the
Pentagon can reduce the  defense budget  while maintaining
security, said Steve Clemons, an analyst with the  New America
Foundation , a nonpartisan policy research organization in
 Washington .  “Panetta has credibility with the harder-edge military
guys, but they have also committed to themselves to the $400
billion in cuts,” Clemons said.  Budget Concerns  In January, Gates proposed $78 billion in reductions in the
Pentagon’s budget over five years, which equals about 2.7
percent of a $2.91 trillion spending plan through 2016.  Obama announced earlier this month that he wanted to cut
deeper, with the goal of trimming $400 billion in security
spending over 12 years, as part of $4 trillion in cumulative
deficit reduction. Administration officials haven’t specified if
the Pentagon would bear all of the $400 billion in cuts, or
whether other security agencies, like the Department of  Homeland
Security , would be affected.  The defense budget is of crucial interest to investors.
Panetta presence likely will have a calming influence, according
to Byron Callan, a defense analyst and director of Washington-
based Capital Alpha Partners LLC.  Smooth Transition  “It is not the risk that investors feared,” Callan said
in an e-mail. “Panetta has extensive national security
experience, he’s managed large organizations and he can work
with Congress. This passing of batons should go smoothly.”  At the CIA, Panetta has been a proponent of increasing the
frequency of drone strikes in  Pakistan . Improved intelligence
has enhanced the imagery gathered by unmanned Predators flying
24-hour patrols over the region near the Afghanistan border,
making the missile-firing drones more precise, a U.S. official
said in January.  Riedel said the nominations signal there won’t be any
upheaval in the U.S. approach to Afghanistan and Pakistan.  “These are the people who helped formulate strategy in the
first place,” said Riedel, a former CIA and National Security
Council official who helped develop the Obama White House’s
first Afghan strategy in early 2009. “I don’t see them as
breaking with it.”  Pakistan  Panetta and Petraeus both “have a pretty deep skepticism
about Pakistan’s commitment” to press the offensive against
Taliban based in the nation’s ungoverned northwest region and
alliances with anti-U.S. militants, he said.  Obama plans to begin withdrawing U.S. forces from
Afghanistan in July, a deadline that could create tension with
Petraeus.  “Petraeus is going to be a logger heads with the White
House from day one,” said Loren Thompson, a defense analyst at
the Lexington Institute, in Arlington, Virginia. “I see a big
flashing national story six months from now where he resigns in
a huff because of the administration’s drawdown in
Afghanistan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  