-- 
Citigroup Drops Ben Stein Speech After Complaint Jokes Disparaged Women

-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 
2011-04-27T21:56:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/citigroup-drops-ben-stein-speech-after-complaint-his-jokes-disparage-women.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  canceled a planned
keynote speech by writer, actor and TV personality Ben Stein
after getting a complaint that he told jokes disparaging women
at a private-equity conference in Dallas earlier this year.  Stein, 66, had been contracted by Citigroup to appear as a
speaker at the May 17 event the bank is hosting in New York for
pension and endowment funds. According to the agenda, other
scheduled speakers include hedge-fund manager  John Paulson  and
 Peter Orszag , the former White House budget director who’s now a
vice chairman in Citigroup’s investment bank.  “We have decided to present the conference without Mr.
Stein’s participation,” said Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a
spokeswoman for the New York-based bank. Stein, in an interview,
said his jokes were mischaracterized and that the company didn’t
call him before canceling.  Citigroup, accused in a gender-discrimination suit last
year of being an “outdated boys club,” canceled the speech
yesterday to avoid being associated with any inappropriate
remarks, a person with knowledge of the matter said. The
decision was made after Orszag received an e-mail from a woman
who attended the March 2 event in  Dallas  and complained that
Stein was “offensive and irresponsible.”  The woman, Lynda Villarreal, 41, had learned that Stein was
scheduled to speak at the Citigroup  conference , and e-mailed
Orszag to ask him to reconsider, she said in interviews. Men and
women at the March conference had told her they were offended by
his remarks, she said.  Ferris Bueller  Orszag, 42, who wasn’t one of the organizers, forwarded the
e-mail to the sales executives in Citigroup’s trading division
who were overseeing the event, the person with knowledge of the
matter said, declining to be identified because the
deliberations were private. Those executives decided within
hours to cancel Stein’s appearance, and the decision was relayed
to Villarreal, the person said.  Stein, a Yale University-educated lawyer and former
speechwriter for President  Richard Nixon  who played the droning
high-school economics teacher in the 1986 movie, “ Ferris
Bueller’s Day Off ,” said in an interview that his jokes at the
Dallas conference had been incorrectly retold.  “I’ve been in this speaking-gig business for a number of
years, I’ve told these jokes before, and I have never gotten one
syllable of complaint,” he said. “I don’t think any woman in
the world would call me a misogynist. For this woman to say this
is just fantasy.”  ‘Deadpan Humor’  Stein’s agent, Marcia Hurwitz, said Citigroup had initially
contracted with Stein through a speakers bureau and that his
typical corporate fee is $45,000, plus first-class travel for
two. In the event of cancellation, he still gets paid, she said.  Stein delivers “deadpan humor and serious insights on the
economy and human nature in talks that leave people laughing and
thinking,” according to the  Washington Speakers Bureau website .  Citigroup’s Romero-Apsilos declined to comment on whether
the bank had given Stein a chance to respond before canceling or
whether he may still be paid.  “I am delighted that Citi has taken this action,” said
Villarreal, a Dallas resident and vice president of business
development at  Trident Trust , which has offices in  London ,
Atlanta and the  Cayman Islands  and provides accounting services
to hedge funds and private-equity firms. “It shows their
corporate leadership and respect for women in the financial
industry as well as their clients.”  Mistress Joke  Citigroup has described the allegations in the October 2010
gender-discrimination suit, which was filed by six former and
current employees, as “totally inaccurate or selectively
incomplete.”  Villarreal’s e-mail to Orszag told of three jokes at the
Dallas conference she said were disparaging to women. One joke
was about a wealthy man, his wife and his mistress, she said.  Another involved a female airline passenger who, realizing
the flight is about to crash, takes off her clothes and asks if
there is a man aboard who will “make me feel like a woman,”
according to Villarreal’s e-mail, which was also sent to
Bloomberg News. A cowboy in a hat removes his shirt, hands it to
the woman, tells her to iron it and fetch him a beer.  Villarreal said the jokes she sent to Citigroup were
versions found on the Internet based on her recollection of what
Stein said.  Stein, who has written columns for Bloomberg News and
appeared as a guest on Bloomberg Television, said in the
interview that the joke targeted the man, not the woman, and
that in his Dallas telling the woman didn’t remove clothing.  ‘Cloddish, Dopey Guy’  “It’s usually a joke understood to be making fun of a kind
of cloddish, dopey guy,” Stein said. “When I was finished with
this speech, dozens of women in the room came up to me and
wanted their pictures taken with me, wanted autographs from me.
Dozens of them. I got fan mail from women who had been at the
group saying how much they liked the speech.”  The jokes are not original, he said.  “Every one of those jokes are thoroughly vetted with my
wife,” said Stein. According to  his website , she is a former
lawyer, and they live with six cats and three dogs in  Beverly
Hills ,  California . Stein’s father, Herb Stein, was a member and
later chairman of the  Council of Economic Advisers  under U.S.
presidents Richard Nixon and  Gerald Ford .  In August 2009, the New York Times dropped Ben Stein as a
columnist for its Sunday business section because he was
simultaneously working as a pitchman for a credit-monitoring
company, according to an Associated Press report at the time.  ‘Encouraging to Women’  Earlier in 2009, Stein withdrew as the  University of
Vermont ’s commencement speaker over complaints about his
critical views of evolution in favor of intelligent design,
according to the AP. He discussed those views as host of the
2008 documentary “ Expelled: No Intelligence Allowed. ”  Stein said he is “very involved in helping women’s
groups,” including ones supporting unwed mothers and wives and
widows of people in the military.  “I didn’t think I had an enemy in the world, except for
the people who didn’t like my movie about evolution,” Stein
said. “I am super, super, super encouraging to women. I support
an awful lot of women who are trying to make their way in the
world.”  An agenda for the Citigroup conference agenda accessed on
the bank’s website yesterday afternoon listed a keynote lunch
with Stein, billing him as a “noted financial expert and
economist” and a “popular film and TV star.” By early today,
Citigroup had updated the  agenda  to remove him.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 Bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  