-- 
Colombia May Seek to Curb Peso's Advance by Keeping $1.5 Billion Overseas

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-04-27T21:27:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/colombia-may-seek-to-curb-peso-by-keeping-1-5-billion-abroad.html
Colombia  may try to limit gains in
the peso by forgoing plans this year to repatriate all of a $1.5
billion account held abroad as higher-than-projected tax revenue
reduces funding needs, Public Credit Director German Arce said.  “We want to avoid unnecessary pressures on the peso,”
Arce, 39, said in an interview in his Bogota office yesterday.  Arce’s comments signal the government may keep the money
outside the country longer than Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry indicated in October, when he said it would stay
overseas “at least for the first months of 2011.” The peso has
climbed 7.5 percent this year, the best performance among seven
Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The National Exporters Association called this week for the
government to limit gains in the peso as the stronger currency
crimps profits by making goods more expensive in dollar terms.  The government repatriated a “small” part of the money
this year and has used a portion to make payments abroad, Arce
said. He declined to say how much of the $1.5 billion, which
mostly stems from dividends paid by state oil company  Ecopetrol
SA (ECOPETL) , was converted into pesos.  Tax revenue totaled 18.5 trillion pesos ($10.3 billion) in
the first quarter, about 1 trillion pesos more than the
government’s target.  “April is a critical month in terms of tax revenue,” Arce
said. “Knowing how much was collected will allow us to
extrapolate for the whole year and will tell us how much money
we will have in pesos and what capacity we have to maintain
funds abroad for longer periods of time.”  Government Measures  The peso’s 5.4 percent rally in the last month has sparked
speculation the government will announce further measures this
week to curb the advance. The central bank may announce at its
April 29 monetary policy meeting that it will boost the amount
or extend the date on its daily dollar purchases, said Andres Munoz, head currency trader at financial services holding
company Corp. Financiera Colombiana. The government may also
impose  capital controls , according to Munoz.  Echeverry, a member of the central bank’s board, told
reporters yesterday that the government isn’t a “fan” of such
moves.  “We’ve been much more effective without capital controls
than many countries that have imposed them,” Echeverry said.
“If we have a good, efficient policy that is superior to
others, I don’t see the need to change it.”  Foreign Investment  The currency today erased earlier declines, jumping 0.9
percent to 1,775 per  U.S. dollar  at 4:44 p.m. New York time.
Earlier this week it touched 1,774.01, the strongest level since
August 2008. The peso has rallied amid higher foreign direct
investment flows this year.  Foreign direct investment rose to $3.23 billion in the year
through March, with 86 percent going into oil and mining,
according to trade balance figures from the central bank. That
compares to $2.17 billion in the first three months of 2010.  Echeverry has also said that recent gains in the currency
are a result of companies bringing in funds from overseas to pay
local taxes between April 8 and April 25.  Companies dependent on international sales are facing a
“difficult” situation, Javier Diaz, the head of  exporters’
association , said in an interview this week with RCN Radio. The
country should “closely monitor” short-term inflows including
overseas borrowing, and consider imposing limits to ease the
peso’s rally, Diaz said.  Investment Grade  The central bank in February extended a plan to buy a
minimum of $20 million daily in the local market until “at
least” June 17.  Record-low  interest rates  in the U.S. and an asset-purchase
program that sought to spur economic growth in the world’s
biggest economy has pushed gains in emerging-market currencies,
including the Brazilian real and the Colombian peso, as
investors increase their demand for higher-yielding assets. The
 Federal Reserve ’s trade-weighted dollar index has dropped 19
percent in the past two years.  Colombia will wait for a second investment grade rating
before issuing debt abroad this year, Arce said. The government
plans to issue $2.24 billion in foreign bonds in 2011.  Standard & Poor’s  raised the nation’s foreign debt rating
one step on March 16 to BBB-, the lowest level of investment
grade. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings rate Colombia
one level below investment grade with a positive outlook.  Funding Pressure  “We don’t have the pressure in terms of funding needs so
we can time it” to achieving a second investment grade rating,
Arce said. A second upgrade will “broaden Colombia’s investor
base” and likely cut borrowing costs, Arce said.  He predicts Colombia will get a second credit rating
upgrade “sometime” this year. Such a move will likely also
help push down Colombia’s local borrowing costs, Arce said.  Colombia’s local peso bond curve “is steeper versus our
peers,” he said.  The gap between yields on Colombia’s government fixed-rate
peso bonds due July 2024 and August 2012 is 335 basis points, or
3.35 percentage points. That compares to the 224 basis point and
34 basis point gap, for similar-maturity fixed-rate debt in
Mexico and  Brazil , respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  