-- 
Congress Wrangles Over Taxman’s Take in Talks on Diminishing U.S. Deficit

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-04-27T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/congress-wrangles-with-taxman-s-take-in-deficit-reduction-talks.html
Congress will return from its
spring recess next week to debate just how large a tax burden
Americans can and should shoulder, an issue at the core of the
discussion about reducing the  U.S. budget deficit .  Many Republicans, determined to prevent tax increases, say
federal revenues shouldn’t exceed 18 or 19 percent of gross
domestic product, the nation’s total output. Senate Republicans
have offered a constitutional amendment that would cap the
federal take below 17 percent of GDP. President  Barack Obama ,
meanwhile, has proposed a budget that would push revenue to 20
percent of GDP by the end of the decade and announced a proposal
April 13 that would raise that number even higher.  In an economy projected to reach about $24 trillion by the
end of the decade, each percentage point represents $240
billion. That means Obama and some Republicans in Congress are
more than $700 billion a year apart. The gap represents
divergent visions of the size, scope and role of government.  “I think the center of this country is that they don’t
want any tax increases,” Representative  Tom Price  of  Georgia ,
chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee, told
reporters April 12. “They recognize that the government spends
too much and it is time to get  government spending  under
control.”  The debate over the size of the federal tax burden comes as
it stands at a 60-year low of 14.8 percent of GDP, because of
the recent recession and tax cuts. The economic recovery will
push that ratio up, even if Congress does nothing, as incomes
and profits increase over the next few years. Just how high it
will go and should go is the issue being discussed.  ‘Budget Challenge’  Congressional Republicans emphasize that the revenue-to-GDP
ratio is an attempt to focus the debate on taxes rather than on
the fate of popular programs under a hard cap on the size of
government, said Leonard Burman, a professor of public affairs
at  Syracuse University  in Syracuse,  New York .  “It does hide how difficult the budget challenge is,” he
said. “If you’re talking about keeping revenues at 18 or 19
percent of GDP, you’re talking about enormous cuts in public
services for years to come.”  Since World War II, the federal tax take has averaged
between 18 and 19 percent of GDP, and that has become the upper
limit that Republicans such as Representative  Paul Ryan ,
chairman of the House Budget Committee, do not want to breach. A
constitutional amendment to balance the budget backed by Utah
Senator  Mike Lee , a Republican, pegs the 18 percent target to
the prior year’s economy, setting an effective cap of 16.7
percent.  The reluctance of these Republicans to raise taxes
separates them from Obama, two bipartisan panels and a
bipartisan group of six senators, who maintain that tax
increases should be part of a deficit reduction package.  Rising Health Costs  Budget analysts across the political spectrum say it is
unrealistic to hold revenue to historic levels because rising
health care costs will place extraordinary demands on Medicare.  “You don’t create the future by looking at the past, OK?”
said  David Walker , the former U.S. comptroller general, who is
founder and chief executive of the  Comeback America Initiative ,
a nonprofit group that advocates deficit reduction. “You need
to learn from history, but you also need to look at the trends
and the forces that will drive the future.”  Walker says tax increases should make up about one-quarter
of a federal deficit-reduction effort that should focus more on
debt-to-GDP ratios than on revenue or spending levels.  Sticking with historic averages of taxation at about 18
percent of GDP and spending at about 20 percent would require
curbing future benefits and would avoid shrinking the private
sector, said Keith Hennessey, director of the National Economic
Council under President  George W. Bush . As the economy grows,
annual budget deficits averaging about 2 percent of GDP would
cause the debt-to-GDP ratio to drop.  “If you don’t mind having a much smaller private sector,
then you can continue the programs the way they’ve been
operating,” he said. “But that is fundamentally different
than, I think, most people’s vision of America.”  Federal Tax Revenue  Since the creation of Social Security and the military
expansion that accompanied World War II and the  Cold War ,
federal tax revenues have fluctuated around 18 percent of the
economy, according to the  Office of Management and Budget . The
low point of 14.4 percent came in 1950, and the high of 20.6
percent occurred in 2000.  Economists generally agree that higher taxes restrain
economic growth, though other factors make it hard to isolate
that effect and determine how the economy would have fared under
a different tax structure. For instance, the economy performed
well during the 1990s after tax increases, and job growth was
relatively slow during the 2000s after tax cuts.  Tax revenue plummeted in 2009 to 14.9 percent, again
because of a recession and tax cuts. They remained at that level
in 2010 and are projected to be about the same this year.  According to the  Congressional Budget Office , tax revenue
will average 19.9 percent over the next decade, reaching 20.8
percent in 2021, if Congress doesn’t act. That’s in part because
of the scheduled expiration of income tax cuts at the end of
2012. Extending those tax cuts would yield revenue averaging
about 18 percent for the decade, according to CBO.  ‘Pockets of Taxpayers’  Republicans who favor holding revenue at postwar levels
make several points. One is the past-is-prologue argument, the
contention that the government and the economy functioned well
enough during the postwar period.  “I abide by the principle that 18 percent of the GDP of
this country is good enough for the government to spend,”
Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, said in an April
13 floor speech. “That leaves 82 percent in the pockets of the
taxpayers for them to decide how to spend, because if 535 of us
decide how to divide up the resources of this country, it
doesn’t do as much economic good.”  The period from World War II through today is fundamentally
different from the coming period, because of the retirement of
the baby boom generation and the continuing rise of health care
costs at a rate faster than the economy, Burman said.  Without changes, Medicare and Social Security will cost
about 9.3 percent of GDP by 2020 and 12.1 percent by 2035,
compared with 8.4 percent today, according to CBO.  Holding revenue to a percentage of GDP “completely ignores
the demographic changes,” Burman said.  Focus on Spending Cuts  Republicans such as House Majority Leader Eric Cantor and
Senator  Orrin Hatch  say spending cuts should be the sole path to
deficit reduction.  “Washington does not have a revenue problem,” Cantor said
on Fox News April 14. “It’s got a spending problem.”  A spending-only approach, as outlined in the budget
authored by Ryan and passed by the House this month, would
require major changes to Medicare and Medicaid that would leave
future beneficiaries with less generous health care, said Alan Viard, resident scholar at the  American Enterprise Institute , a
Washington policy center that favors smaller government.  “It requires changing these commitments in a way that I
think is not going to happen politically,” Viard said.  Hauser’s Law  Some Republicans also rely on an argument dubbed Hauser’s
Law, named for W. Kurt Hauser, a former chairman of the Hoover
Institution in  California . He contended that the relative
stability of the revenue-to-GDP ratio occurs because taxpayers
react to higher taxes by underreporting income and shunning
productive investments for tax shelters.  “That’s where we’ve been historically, and that tends to
be what our  tax code  raises,” said Curtis Dubay, senior policy
analyst at the  Heritage Foundation , a Washington policy group
that favors smaller government.  Hennessey, Burman and Viard said the consistency of
revenues near 18 percent is more political than economic. When
tax rates rise, the U.S. elects lawmakers who cut taxes, as when
 Ronald Reagan  took office in 1981 and Bush did in 2001.  Viard said any increase in tax collections should be
accompanied by changes to the tax system to minimize economic
harm.  “If we’re able to survive raising 19 percent of revenue
from a badly flawed tax system,” he said, “there cannot be any
disaster from raising 20 or 21 percent from a better tax
system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  