-- 
ConocoPhillips Profit Misses on Libya, Refinery Maintenance

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-04-27T20:19:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/conocophillips-profit-rises-as-crude-s-gain-offsets-asset-sales.html
ConocoPhillips (COP) , the third-largest
U.S. oil company, reported first-quarter profit below analysts’
estimates because production was hurt by fighting in  Libya  and
extra refinery maintenance.  Production fell 6.9 percent from a year earlier to the
equivalent of 1.7 million barrels of oil a day, Houston-based
ConocoPhillips said today in a statement. Unplanned downtime in
its exploration and production segment, due in part to civil
turmoil in Libya, cut earnings by about $100 million, the
company said.  Rising crude prices and asset sales boosted net income 44
percent to $3.03 billion, or $2.09 a share, from $2.1 billion,
or $1.40, a year earlier.  “Unplanned downtime will come back to haunt you,” said
 Gianna Bern , president of Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc. in
 Chicago . “Producers should be putting out as much production as
they can in the current environment given crude-oil prices.”  The company’s profits may be reduced by $25 million to $30
million a quarter as long as its Libyan operations remain
affected, Chief Financial Officer Jeff Sheets said in a
telephone interview.  ConocoPhillips is selling as much as $17 billion in assets
by the end of 2012 as it seeks cash to fund share buybacks and
growth. Excluding gains related to asset sales, profit was $1.82
a share, 10 cents lower than the average of 18 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares Fall  ConocoPhillips fell $1.38, or 1.7 percent, to $79.83 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
stock had climbed 19 percent this year before today.  ConocoPhillips leads major U.S. oil companies in reporting
first-quarter earnings.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S. oil
company, plans to release results tomorrow, and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
the second-biggest company, will issue a first-quarter report on
April 29.  President  Barack Obama  has called on Congress to act on
proposals to eliminate “unwarranted” tax breaks for the oil
and gas industry and use the savings to fund clean energy
programs. Obama’s fiscal 2012 budget plan, unveiled Feb. 14,
proposes eliminating oil and gas tax breaks estimated at $46.2
billion over 10 years.  “To take resources away from companies that are already
highly taxed and who are using their profits predominantly to
reinvest in the business and create future energy supplies, is
just the wrong thing from an energy policy perspective,” Sheets
said.  Revenue Surges  Revenue in the first quarter surged 27 percent from a year
earlier to $58.2 billion, the company said. Oil futures in  New
York  averaged $94.60 a barrel in the first quarter, 20 percent
higher than a year earlier, as unrest in the Middle East and
North Africa raised supply concerns.  ConocoPhillips said maintenance downtime at some facilities
in its U.S. refining business also trimmed profit by about $50
million.  In addition to the asset-sale program, ConocoPhillips this
year completed the sale of its 20 percent stake in OAO Lukoil,
 Russia ’s largest non-state oil producer. Proceeds from the sale
of most of that stake and other assets in 2010 totaled $15.4
billion, ConocoPhillips said Jan. 26.  Sheets said the company plans $5 billion to $10 billion in
asset sales over 2011 and 2012. ConocoPhillips said 2011 share
buybacks will be $5 billion to $10 billion.  The company in March said output may slump in coming years
as some production assets are sold, though the slump may be
followed by long-term growth of 2 percent to 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Edward Klump} in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  