-- 
German Consumer Confidence to Decline in May Amid Higher Prices, GfK Says

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-04-27T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/consumer-confidence-to-decline-in-may-on-food-energy-prices-gfk-says.html
German  consumer confidence  will
decline for a second month in May as households grapple with
higher food and energy prices, GfK AG said.  The Nuremburg-based market research company today forecast
that its consumer sentiment index, based on a survey of about
2,000 people, will fall to 5.7 next month from 5.9 in April.
Economists predicted a decline to 5.8, according to the median
of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Political turmoil in the Middle East and uncertainty over
the duration of Japan’s nuclear crisis have pushed crude  oil
prices  above $112 a barrel, fueling inflation and damping the
global economic outlook. At the same time, Germany’s economy,
Europe’s largest, is booming as companies increase investment
and hiring to meet export orders.  “Higher prices, the nuclear disaster in  Japan  and the
escalating political unrest in North Africa and the Middle East
all mean that the general conditions for German consumers no
longer appear quite as positive at present,” GfK said in a
statement. “As an export nation, Germany is particularly
dependent on a settled and secure global economic environment.”  GfK’s measure of households’ economic expectations declined
to 47.3 in April from 49.5 in March. A gauge of income
expectations fell to 35 from 40.5, while an index of consumers’
willingness to spend eased to 34.2 from 34.3.  German inflation will accelerate to 2.6 percent in April
from 2.3 percent in March, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists. The  European Central Bank  this month raised  interest
rates  from a record low to combat price pressures across the 17-
nation euro region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  