-- 
Cool Air Expected to Dominate Central U.S. for Start of May

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-27T13:06:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/cool-air-expected-to-dominate-central-u-s-for-start-of-may.html
A large pocket of cooler-than-
normal weather may dominate the center of the U.S. in the first
week in May, according to forecasters.  Matt Rogers , president of  Commodity Weather Group LLC , and
MDA EarthSat Weather are calling for an area of below-normal
temperatures to develop from the Canadian border through the
central U.S. south to the Gulf of Mexico.  The two forecasters differ in their 6- to 10-day forecasts
on the extent of the cool area. Rogers calls for it to spread
across the South from Florida to Texas, while MDA has the
largest spread in the North from Montana to western  New York .  The two also differ on the extent of potential warmer-than-
normal weather. Rogers’ outlook covers southern California into
the  Rocky Mountains , while MDA predicts the warming will occur
mainly in  California  and parts of Arizona.  May heat “‘usually takes the form of faster-moving spikes
rather than sustained locked-in patterns” said Rogers, in
Bethesda, Maryland. “But this year, the models appear to be
setting up a pattern to even limit the number and intensity of
heat spikes at least in the first half of the month.”  Natural gas traders monitor  weather forecasts  to determine
whether temperatures boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy or sell gas futures. Commodity traders
watch precipitation forecasts for potential impact on planting
and yields.  Longer-Term Outlook  In his 11- to 15-day outlook, Rogers predicts the cooler
air will shift east from Minnesota to New England and the warmer
air will expand in the Southwest and reach as far east as
Louisiana.  MDA expands that area of cooler air back to  Montana  and the
warming from California to western Georgia.  New York’s average temperature in early May is about 58
degrees Fahrenheit (14 degrees Celsius), according to  MDA  in
Gaithersburg, Maryland. The average temperature in  St. Louis  is
about 63 degrees; in Boston, 54; in Philadelphia, 59; in
Atlanta, 66; and in Dallas, 70.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  