-- 
Weak Investment-Bank Profits Weigh on Earnings at Barclays, Credit Suisse

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-04-27T15:54:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/credit-suisse-net-drops-45-on-investment-bank-debt-charge.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , two of  Europe ’s largest banks, posted lower profits in
the first quarter as  investment-banking  earnings tumbled.  Barclays fell 4.8 percent in  London  trading, the biggest
drop since August, after saying net income declined 5.2 percent
to 1.01 billion pounds ($1.67 billion) from a year earlier,
missing the 1.21 billion-pound estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Credit Suisse posted a 45 percent slump in profit to
1.14 billion Swiss francs ($1.31 billion).  Barclays Capital, the investment-banking unit, reported a
15 percent drop in revenue in the quarter, while pretax profit
fell by a third. Credit Suisse’s investment bank recorded a 25
percent decrease in pretax earnings as revenue declined and
costs rose. Both London-based Barclays, run by  Robert Diamond ,
and Credit Suisse of Zurich, led by  Brady Dougan , lowered their
profitability goals in February as regulators told banks to hold
more reserves in the wake of the financial crisis.  “Higher  capital requirements  combined with significantly
more restrictions on risk-taking ability means it’s unlikely to
see profitability to return to historic levels,” said Espen Furnes, a  fund manager  at Storebrand ASA in Oslo who helps
oversee $70 billion. “Investors are struggling to find out what
the new normal is.”  Barclays dropped 14.35 pence to 287.5 pence, reducing the
gain this year to 9.9 percent. Credit Suisse advanced 1 centime
to 39.31 francs in  Switzerland . The stock is up 4.4 percent
since the start of 2011.  ‘Challenging Environment’  Barclays made a good start this year “in a challenging
external environment,” Diamond said in a statement. “We remain
content with the current consensus for 2011,” the bank said.  Diamond, who became chief executive officer this year, cut
Barclays’s return-on-equity target in February to 13 percent
from an average of 18 percent over the past three decades.
Dougan, CEO at Credit Suisse since 2007, said the bank will aim
for a return on equity of more than 15 percent over three to
five years, down from a previous goal of more than 18 percent.  Diamond, 60, is reviewing the bank’s operations and may
sell or close some of the third of its operations that don’t
generate sufficient returns. The bank held its  annual meeting  of
shareholders in London today.  Barclays Capital  had accounting losses of 351 million
pounds on the value of its own debt in the first quarter.
Revenue from fixed income, currency and commodities trading fell
22 percent to 2.11 billion pounds. Equities and prime services
revenue rose 11 percent to 545 million pounds, the bank said.  Consumer Banking  “Barclays Capital was clearly disappointing,” in terms of
top-line revenue, said Cormac Leech, an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity Ltd. in London, who has a “buy” rating on the stock.  Pretax profit from Barclays’s consumer and business banking
unit rose 21 percent to 692 million pounds, as earnings from
Barclaycard more than doubled and bad-debt provisions fell.  Credit Suisse, which had lower writedowns and losses during
the credit crisis than competitors including Swiss rival  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
has been trying to expand its market share in investment banking
and last year hired at its credit, rates and foreign-exchange
trading businesses.  Revenue from sales and trading at the investment bank fell
7.7 percent in the quarter to 4.02 billion francs, while the
five biggest U.S. investment banks on average reported a 20
percent decline in revenue from sales and trading in the period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rising Franc  “The environment for fixed-income trading improved in the
first quarter and we are particularly pleased that the
investment in this part of our business has begun to show a
material impact on our performance,” Dougan, 51, said in a
statement.  Revenue was hurt by the appreciation of the Swiss franc
against the dollar, Chief Financial Officer  David Mathers  said
on a conference call.  Revenue from fixed-income sales and trading fell 6.4
percent to 2.49 billion francs, while equities revenue fell 9.7
percent to 1.53 billion francs. Fees from advising clients on
capital-market transactions and mergers and acquisitions rose
4.9 percent to 930 million francs.  The private bank reported a 4.1 percent decline in earnings
to 855 million francs, while attracting 18 billion francs of net
new money from wealthy clients. The asset management unit had a
3.6 percent increase in profit to 172 million francs. Credit
Suisse’s earnings were hurt by a 617 million-franc pretax charge
related to the bank’s own credit-spread movements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  