-- 
Crude Rises as Europe Economic Data Boost Demand Optimism, Pressure Dollar

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-04-27T12:46:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/crude-rises-as-europe-economic-data-boost-demand-optimism-pressure-dollar.html
Oil climbed in London after
European economic data indicated demand may be recovering in the
region, easing concern that  oil prices  near their highest in
more than two years may be hurting growth.  Brent futures advanced as much as 0.7 percent after reports
showed that industrial orders in the euro region gained for a
fifth month in February, led by demand for capital goods, and
that Britain’s economy rebounded in the first quarter as growth
surged in the service industry. The dollar traded near a 16-
month low against the euro and a two-year low against the pound,
boosting the appeal of commodities priced in the U.S. currency.  “Both demand data and macroeconomic data continue to
surprise to the upside and despite worries of slowdown from
higher prices, we haven’t seen any effects yet,” Amrita Sen, a
London-based oil analyst at Barclays Plc, said by e-mail.
“That’s what is supporting prices.”  Brent for June settlement rose as much as 84 cents to
$124.98 a barrel and was at $124.37 at 1:33 p.m. on the ICE
Futures Europe Exchange in  London . Crude in  New York  was up 9
cents at $112.30 a barrel after rising as much as 58 cents, or
0.5 percent, to $112.79.  Futures in New York fell earlier by as much as 0.5 percent
after U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said oil prices
have become an obstacle to economic growth. The U.S. Energy
Department may say today that crude stockpiles in the country
climbed even as gasoline supplies declined.  ‘New Headwinds’  Oil’s rally has created “new headwinds” against economic
growth, Geithner told the Council on Foreign Relations in New
York yesterday, even as a Conference Board index showed  consumer
confidence  increased more than forecast in April.  Brent traded at $127.02 a barrel on April 11, the highest
level in more than 2 1/2 years, buoyed by concern that political
unrest in  Libya  could spread to other producers including
Algeria and  Saudi Arabia .  “Fears about loss of supply could still push prices
higher,”  Roland Stenzel , an oil trader at E&T Energie
Handelsgesellschaft mbH, said today from Vienna.  U.S. crude inventories probably increased last week against
a drop in gasoline supplies, a Bloomberg News survey showed
before the Energy Department report.  Crude stockpiles climbed 1.7 million barrels from 357
million in the week ended April 22, according to the median
estimate of 13 analysts surveyed. Gasoline stockpiles are
expected to have decreased 1 million barrels from 208 million.  API Figures  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  said
yesterday gasoline inventories fell for a 10th week, the longest
losing streak since August 1994. Crude supplies gained the most
in four weeks. The Energy Department will release its Weekly
Petroleum Status Report at 10:30 a.m. today in  Washington .  Gasoline shipments to the U.S. from  Europe  are poised to
drop in April to the lowest in four months, reinforcing
speculation that a surge in pump prices is hurting consumption
in the world’s biggest oil user.  At least 15 tankers were scheduled to ship 570,000 metric
tons of the fuel to the U.S. Atlantic Coast from Europe as of
April 20, the least for a comparable period since December,
according to Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of the
world’s biggest shipbroker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in Belfast at +44-20-9044-6359 or
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  