-- 
Dodgers’ McCourt Says ’Not Going Anywhere’ as MLB Delays TV Deal With Fox

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-04-28T21:18:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/dodgers-mccourt-says-i-m-not-going-anywhere-after-mlb-vetoes-tv-accord.html
Los Angeles  Dodgers owner Frank McCourt said he’s “not going anywhere” after Major League
Baseball took over operations of the team and held up a long-
term TV deal with News Corp.’s Fox Sports.  McCourt is weighing whether to sue over the takeover
ordered last week by MLB Commissioner Bud Selig, the Dodgers
owner said yesterday at a news conference in New York after
meeting there with baseball officials.  “Nobody handed the Dodgers to me and nobody’s going to
take them away,” McCourt said. “I’m not going anywhere. This
is a team that I love, a community that I love. These are my
hard-earned dollars that I put into this franchise.”  Selig hasn’t vetoed the proposed deal with Fox and baseball
officials told McCourt yesterday that the commissioner won’t
make a decision until a probe into the team’s finances is
complete, MLB said in a statement.  “Mr. McCourt is well aware of the basis of baseball’s
investigation and has been provided an eight-page document
describing the issues of concern to  Major League Baseball ,”
according to the statement.  McCourt held his news conference as J. Thomas Schieffer,
the former Texas Rangers president appointed by MLB this week to
monitor the team’s operations, met with reporters in Los
Angeles. Schieffer was joined by former Dodgers and New York
Yankees manager  Joe Torre , who will assist in running the team.  Torre left the Dodgers at the end of last season after a
three-year stint as manager. He now is the MLB official in
charge of baseball operations.  Fox TV Deal  A new 17-year TV deal with Fox Sports offered the Dodgers
an immediate $300 million boost to its finances through an
equity stake in the  News Corp. (NWSA)  cable network that carries the
Dodgers, according to McCourt. In an interview today with Pimm Fox and Michele Steele on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness
with Margaret Brennan,” McCourt said none of the proceeds would
go to cover personal expenses.  “The only thing standing between that deal closing, which
ensures the financial stability of the franchise, is Bud
Selig,” McCourt said.  Frank and Jamie McCourt were granted a divorce in October
after almost 31 years of marriage. A Los Angeles judge last year
invalidated a postnuptial agreement that Frank McCourt claimed
made him the sole owner of the Dodgers, leaving the team’s
ownership in limbo.  Personal Use  Court documents filed in the divorce case said the McCourts
took $108 million in personal distributions from the team
between 2004 and 2009, almost half for mortgages and real
estate.  Frank McCourt  criticized MLB for not approving the
agreement with Fox.  “I’ve decided to take the equity from this transaction and
plow it into the Dodgers,” McCourt said in the news conference.
“The lack of a decision to allow us to do our media transaction
is creating all this noise about the financial duress of the
Dodgers.”  McCourt said today on Bloomberg Television that Selig
hadn’t returned “half a dozen” phone calls over the past few
weeks.  “I don’t know why he’s ducking me,” McCourt said. “In my
experience, when there’s a problem or an issue you sit down and
talk about it. Without communication you’re not going to solve
anything.”  Force Out  McCourt said that the lack of communication and the fact
that his team has not violated any league rules have created the
feeling that Selig and the MLB want to force him out.  “It sure seems that way to me,” McCourt said. “This is a
franchise that is in complete compliance with all of baseball’s
rules, including the financial rules; we’re current on all of
our payments; I haven’t asked for, nor have I received, a penny
of emergency funding from baseball or from the other owners.”  Rob Manfred, baseball’s executive vice president for labor
relations and human resources, said the MLB is in no way trying
to take the team from McCourt.  “I have never heard anybody suggest anything to Mr.
McCourt to indicate that we are trying to force him out,”
Manfred said today in a telephone interview.  McCourt characterized Schieffer as a “receiver” instead
of a monitor, and criticized MLB’s investigation into the team’s
finances.  “The appointment of Mr. Schieffer in the fashion he was
appointed is a fundamental problem for the Dodgers,” McCourt
said yesterday in his news conference. “There is chaos that has
been created by this appointment. There has been no due process
at all.”  Baseball announced last week that it was going to appoint
someone to run the franchise, days after the Los Angeles Times
reported that McCourt took a $30 million loan from Fox to meet
payroll.  “I don’t want to get into an argument with Mr. McCourt,”
Schieffer said at yesterday’s news conference in Los Angeles,
adding he is eager to meet with McCourt. “I’m just here to
help.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  