-- 
Dollar Drops in Vietnam Due to Sales After Deposit Rate Cap

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-27T08:30:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/dollar-drops-in-vietnam-due-to-sales-after-deposit-rate-cap-1-.html
The dollar weakened in  Vietnam  in
recent days due to “abundant” supply after the central bank
capped rates payable on deposits in the U.S. currency, the
government said today in a  statement .  The  State Bank  of Vietnam’s limits took effect April 13,
restricting rates for individuals to 3 percent and those for
non-credit institutions to 1 percent. Holdings of dong can earn
interest of as much as 14 percent. Some small banks have been
taking in some $10 million to $15 million daily from customers
in exchange for dong, the government said.  The dong-dollar  exchange rate  offered by banks have been
lower than the daily ceiling set by the central bank, which is
“a phenomenon that rarely happens,” the statement said. Dollar
prices at Asia Commercial Bank were between 20,670 dong and
20,740 dong, while the official ceiling was 20,910 yesterday,
the government said.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has cut the target for
credit growth and ordered a tighter monetary policy as the
nation strives to rein in inflation and stabilize the local
currency, which fell against the dollar in all but one of the
last 15 years. Increased checks and inspections of foreign-
currency holdings by the central bank has “also created large
pressure on the unofficial dollar market,” spurring the flow of
dollars into banks, the government said today.  The dong gained 0.3 percent to 20,650 per dollar as of 3:16
p.m. in Hanoi, according to prices from banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 20,645, the strongest level since Feb. 10.  The central bank fixed the  reference rate  at 20,698 today,
compared with 20,703 yesterday, according to its website. The
currency is allowed to trade up to 1 percent on either side of
that rate.  While the foreign-currency market has shown signs of
stabilizing, the central bank needs to monitor movements in the
market closely and continue checks and inspections, the
government said in today’s statement.  --Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi. Editors: James Regan, Ven Ram  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net ;
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at   oha3@bloomberg.net . 