-- 
Draghi Pick for ECB Presidency Needs German Consent, Merkel Spokesman Says

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-04-27T16:25:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/draghi-pick-for-ecb-presidency-needs-german-consent-merkel-spokesman-says.html
Germany asserted the power to block
 Mario Draghi  as the successor to European Central Bank President
Jean-Claude Trichet after the Bank of Italy governor won
France’s endorsement.  “Two important states, Italy and France, did indeed put
their weight yesterday behind the candidate Draghi,” Steffen Seibert, a spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , told
reporters today in Berlin. “Notwithstanding, there will be no
appointment to the ECB presidency without German approval.”  While Seibert said Germany would cooperate with France in
the appointment, the decision by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to back Draghi puts pressure on Merkel to follow suit or
risk rankling her biggest European partners. Portugal and
Belgium today added their support for the Italian.  The leader of  Europe ’s largest economy, Merkel has yet to
indicate a preference for a successor to Trichet. The pick may
become tied up in German opposition to bailouts. With  Portugal ’s
rescue set to push the cost of aid to euro states past 250
billion euros ($366 billion), Merkel may face domestic criticism
for choosing a southern European from a country with a legacy of
inflation and debt.  “Merkel is in a dilemma,”  Juergen Michels , chief euro-
area economist at Citigroup Inc. in  London , said by telephone.
“The question is whether Merkel can sell an Italian at the helm
of the ECB as a guarantor of stability to the German public.”  Under EU voting rules, Germany wouldn’t be able to block
Draghi on its own. It would need anywhere from one to five other
countries to amass enough votes for a veto.  Draghi’s Emergence  Draghi emerged as the front-runner after Germany’s  Axel Weber  withdrew from the race in February. German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  sees Draghi as likeliest to be
appointed as the ECB’s next president, people close to him say.
Trichet’s non-renewable eight-year term ends on Oct. 31.  Spokesmen for euro-region governments including Austria,
Cyprus,  Greece , Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Spain declined
to comment today on ECB succession.  Sarkozy rejected the suggestion that nationality would hurt
Draghi’s candidacy. “We support him not because he is Italian
but because he is a man of quality,” Sarkozy said at a briefing
with Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  in Rome. “And it
would be a very good signal for  Italy , which may have doubts
about its role and position within Europe.”  The statement suggests it’s only a matter of time before
Merkel throws her support behind Draghi, said  Nicolas Jabko , an
associate professor of political economy at  Johns Hopkins
University  in Baltimore.  ‘Credible Alternative’  “When Axel Weber pulled out, it was up to the Germans to
come up with a credible alternative and they couldn’t,” Jabko
said by telephone. “I can’t imagine that Sarkozy would have
been so clear if he hadn’t had any prior contact with Merkel.”  Seibert said today that Merkel and Sarkozy and their staffs
have discussed the matter several times. He said the Germans
demand “somebody who shares our beliefs regarding monetary
stability. That’s a decisive criterion.”  In a sign he understands the need to meet the skepticism
head on, Draghi has appealed to  Germany ’s inflation-fighting
mindset. He said on April 13 that monetary policy was still
“accommodative” even after the ECB raised its benchmark rate
this month.  In February, he told newspaper  Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung  that Germany is an example for other nations, calling
for tougher sanctions for budget-rule breaches and vowing to
ensure  price stability .  Political Capital  “Draghi has positioned himself as a hawk, and I’m sure
that Merkel’s advisers have given her the green light that he’s
acceptable,” Jabko said.  The campaign to pick Trichet’s successor follows Merkel’s
initial reluctance to aid Greece and her refusal to join allied
military efforts in Libya, moves that may have deepened
resentment against Germany and diminished her political capital.  “Germany has much less credibility than many there may
think,” Philippe Moreau-Defarges, a researcher at the Paris-
based French Institute of International Affairs, said by
telephone. “Their behavior concerning Greece and Libya has
grated on a lot of nerves. Plus, German banks are in very deep
in Greece, so there’s a level of hypocrisy that’s not lost on
the rest of Europe.”  Draghi, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology-trained
economist, has worked at the World Bank and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  He is also chairman of the Financial Stability Board, which
was established by the Group of 20 nations in 2009 to oversee
development of standards to strengthen global regulation.  ECB Candidates  Other candidates include Yves Mersch of Luxembourg, Erkki Liikanen of Finland and Nout Wellink of the Netherlands. Klaus Regling, a German who runs the bailout facility, has never been
a central banker.  Picking Mersch, Liikanen or Wellink would leave small
countries with three of the six seats on the ECB’s Executive
Board and no room for France when Trichet leaves. The selection
of Draghi would likely mean the exit of board member and fellow
Italian Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, opening a slot for  France .  Berlusconi agreed to support a French nominee for the
Executive Board, Sarkozy said. Possible candidates include
Xavier Musca, Sarkozy’s chief of staff, and Jean-Philippe Cotis,
head of France’s statistics agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at   jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  