-- 
Diamond Lake, BankAtlantic, Apple, Amazon.com in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-04-27T12:15:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/drug-marketing-bankatlantic-apple-amazon-com-in-court-news.html
Dow Kim, a former Merrill Lynch &
Co. head of trading and investment banking, was sued over $2
million in compensation claimed against the Diamond Lake
Investment Group hedge fund venture that he started and dropped.  Namuk Cho, who previously worked as the head of U.S.
derivatives trading at  UBS AG (UBSN) , said Kim promised him $2 million
in compensation for his services in 2007, according to the suit
filed April 25 in  New York  state Supreme Court. He said he was
terminated in May 2008, days after demanding the money.  Kim, whom the suit cites as making more than $80 million at
Merrill from 2005 to 2007, left to start Diamond Lake in 2007.
In August 2008, he determined he couldn’t raise enough money,
according to a March 31 appeals court decision that reinstated
claims against Kim for breach of contract and unpaid wages. In
that case, Karl Wachter, who had been hired to serve as a
managing director and general counsel of Diamond Lake, sued Kim
over compensation.  “Kim specifically promised Cho $2 million as minimum
compensation for his 2007 services,” according to the new suit.
“Cho insisted that his $2 million minimum compensation be
unconditional and not subject to the launch of Kim’s investment
funds.”  Cho alleges in the complaint that, in a telephone
conversation in August 2007 over the pay, Kim said, “But then
it comes out of my pocket!” and added, “You will get your $2
million.”  Attorney Leo V. Leyva, who represents Kim in the Wachter
suit, said yesterday in an interview that he hadn’t seen the Cho
suit and had no immediate comment.  The case is Cho v. Kim, 651089/2011, New York state Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  Ex-Ukraine Prime Minister Tymoshenko Sues RosUkrEnergo  Former Ukrainian prime minister  Yulia Tymoshenko , in a
U.S. racketeering lawsuit, accused gas trader RosUkrEnergo AG
and Ukrainian businessman Dmitry Firtash of conspiring to
manipulate an arbitration court ruling that she claims robbed
the country of its natural gas supplies.  A Stockholm Arbitration Court ruling last year that
Ukraine’s state-run energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy owed
RosUkrEnergo 12.1 billion cubic meters of gas deprived the
Ukrainian people of fuel that the government had already paid
for and allowed Firtash, an owner of the gas trader, to reap
billions when the gas was resold on the open market, according
to the complaint filed yesterday in federal court in New York.  “The Stockholm arbitration ruling in favor of Firtash’s
company has been widely perceived as a means of generating huge
sums of cash with which Firtash and his associates could
continue to illegally fund the pervasive system of corruption
that encompasses every level of government, while at the same
time suppressing political dissent through intimidation,
racketeering and other violations of fundamental human and
political rights,” according to the complaint.  The case seeks to represent all Ukrainian people in a class
action and was filed under U.S. racketeering law and the Alien
Torts Statute, a law that allows foreigners seeking damages for
violations of international human rights laws to sue in U.S.
courts. The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and
punitive damages.  No one answered a phone call to RosUkrEnergo after regular
business hours yesterday. Representatives of Group DF, where
Firtash is executive chairman, didn’t respond to an e-mail sent
after regular business hours yesterday.  The case is Tymoshenko v. Firtash, 11-02794, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Navistar Sues Its Former Auditor Deloitte & Touche  Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , a maker of medium- and heavy-
duty trucks, accused its former auditor Deloitte & Touche LLP of
professional malpractice in a lawsuit seeking $500 million in
damages.  Navistar claimed shoddy work by Deloitte & Touche
accountants from 2002 to 2005 forced the company to revise its
financial statements, according to a 134-page complaint filed
yesterday in Illinois state court in Chicago.  “Deloitte lied to Navistar and, on information and belief,
to Deloitte’s other audit clients, as to the competency of its
audit and accounting services,” the Warrenville, Illinois-based
truckmaker alleged in its complaint.  Deloitte & Touche, based in New York, functioned as an
auditor, accountant and adviser to Navistar for almost a
century, a relationship that ended in April 2006, according to
the complaint.  Navistar said in April 2006 that its restatements for 2002
through the third quarter of 2005 were related to warranties and
product-development programs at suppliers. It also said it was
replacing Deloitte with KPMG LLP. The restatements were made in
2007.  In its complaint yesterday, the truckmaker accused its
former auditor of fraud, fraudulent concealment, breach of
contract and malpractice relating to the advice and auditing
services Deloitte gave Navistar.  Jonathan Gandal, a spokesman for Deloitte, said Navistar’s
claims lack merit and that the firm would vigorously defend
itself.  The case is Navistar International Corp. v. Deloitte &
Touche LLP, 2011L004269, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court,
Law Division (Chicago).  For more, click here.  Ex-Air France Cargo Executives Charged With Price Fixing  Two former Societe Air France cargo executives were charged
with conspiring to fix international freight shipment prices,
the U.S. Justice Department said.  Ex-vice presidents Marc Boudier and Jean Charles Foucault
face a single charge each of conspiracy to restrain trade in
violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act, a crime punishable by as
much as 10 years’ imprisonment and a fine of as much as $1
million, prosecutors said yesterday in  a statement . The men were
indicted by a federal grand jury in Chicago, the government
said.  “Boudier and Foucault carried out a conspiracy by fixing
and coordinating rates on air cargo shipments to certain U.S.
locations and elsewhere,” from August 2004 to February 2006,
the Justice Department said.  The indictments are the most recent in a U.S. government
probe that has involved charges against 21 airlines and 21
executives.  Societe Air France, based in Roissy, France, is a unit of
Paris-based  Air France-KLM. (AF)   Attorney information wasn’t immediately available for
Boudier, a former executive vice president of Air France Cargo,
and Foucault, formerly vice president for sales and marketing of
Air France Cargo.  The case is U.S. v. Boudier, U.S. District Court, District
of Northern Illinois (Chicago).  Genzyme Sues to Block Zimmer, Anika Arthritic-Knee Treatments  Genzyme Corp., the drugmaker bought by  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN) 
this month, sued  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  and  Anika Therapeutics
Inc. (ANIK)  alleging the companies’ treatments for arthritic knee pain
infringe a patent.  Genzyme is seeking to block sales of Anika’s Monovisc drug
as well as a treatment made by  Seikagaku Corp. (4548)  and distributed
by Zimmer called Gel-One, according to two patent-infringement
lawsuits filed yesterday in federal court in Boston. Genzyme,
based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, is also seeking cash
compensation.  Genzyme filed the lawsuits the same day it was issued the
patent for a method of treating a knee joint with a single
injection of hyaluronic acid, which the company markets as
Synvisc-One, according to the complaint. Sales of Synvisc-One
and of Synvisc, a three-injunction drug, rose 20 percent to $393
million last year, Genzyme said in its annual report.  Synvisc-One was the only single-injection treatment
approved by U.S. regulators until Gel-One was approved on March
22, according to the complaint against Warsaw, Indiana-based
Zimmer. Tokyo-based Seikagaku was named in the Zimmer lawsuit.  Anika, based in Bedford, Massachusetts, sells Monovisc in
 Europe , Turkey and Canada, and is seeking approval to sell it in
the U.S. Anika has “already begun advertising for field sales
representatives,” Genzyme said in that complaint.  Garry Clark, a spokesman for Zimmer, said the company
doesn’t comment on pending litigation. Officials with Anika
didn’t immediately return messages seeking comment.  Paris-based Sanofi bought Genzyme, the world’s largest
maker of medicines for rare genetic disorders, for at least
$20.1 billion.  The cases are  Genzyme Corp. (GENZ)  v. Seikagaku Corp., 11cv10704,
and Genzyme Corp. v. Anika Therapeutics Inc., 11cv10705, both
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  Trials/Appeals  Nancy Kissel  Doesn’t Appeal, May Apply for Transfer to U.S.  Nancy Kissel, who was retried in Hong Kong for the murder
of her Merrill Lynch & Co. banker husband, didn’t appeal her
second conviction and may apply for a transfer to a U.S. prison,
her lawyer said yesterday.  “My understanding is that she wishes to make an
application to serve her sentence in the United States,” said
Kissel’s lawyer Colin Cohen. The 28-day period for Kissel to
file an appeal expired on April 23.  Helen Leung, a  Correctional Services Department 
spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail that privacy concerns prevent
the department from saying whether Kissel had filed an
application to be transferred.  The Hong Kong and U.S. governments signed an agreement in
1997 allowing the transfer of prisoners between the two
jurisdictions. The last successful repatriation of an American
prisoner from Hong Kong was in 2008, according to  U.S. Justice
Department  records.  Michigan-born Kissel was sentenced to life in prison in
March after being convicted for murdering her husband, Robert,
on the night of Nov. 2, 2003. Prosecutors said she drugged her
husband, a distressed assets specialist at Merrill, with a
milkshake before bludgeoning his skull with a lead ornament and
hiding his body in a rolled-up carpet.  At her sentencing, Kissel lawyer  Edward Fitzgerald  had
asked Judge Andrew Macrae to write a letter to Kissel’s parole
board about his client’s poor health and psychological distress.
Cohen declined to comment on when the board may review Kissel’s
case.  Kissel, 47, has already served more than six years in a
Hong Kong prison.  Drug Marketing Limits May Be Voided by U.S. Supreme Court  U.S. Supreme Court justices signaled that they may overturn
a Vermont law that would limit the ability of drugmakers to use
prescription data to market to individual doctors.  The case, argued yesterday before the high court, pits
speech rights against privacy interests. Several justices
questioned whether the law effectively protected the privacy of
doctors, saying the measure would allow use of the information
for other purposes.  Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Anthony Kennedy and
Antonin Scalia all said the law was aimed at promoting lower-
cost generic drugs by undermining “detailing,” the brand-name
industry practice of one-on-one marketing to doctors.  “What you’re saying is that the state can prohibit the
most efficient sort of speech,” Kennedy told the state’s
lawyer.  The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America,
which represents the drug industry, is banding together with
data-mining companies including IMS Health Inc. to challenge the
measure.  The data-mining companies typically buy information from
pharmacies delineating physicians’ prescriptions. They sell the
information to drug companies, which in turn use the information
to pitch their products to doctors who have been prescribing
something else.  Vermont is one of three New England states that restrict
the use of prescription records for marketing, and similar
legislation has been introduced in two dozen other states,
according to Vermont’s appeal.  The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York struck
down the Vermont law in a 2-1 ruling. The majority said the
measure violates the First Amendment because it restricts the
speech rights of data miners without directly advancing
legitimate state interests.  The Obama administration is joining Vermont in defending
the measure. The state’s lawyer, Bridget Asay, told the justices
that drug companies “do not have a right to demand access to
information about the doctor’s prescribing practices without his
consent.”  Several news organizations, including Bloomberg LP, the
parent of Bloomberg News, are urging the court to overturn the
law. They say a ruling upholding the law might jeopardize news
gathering.  None of the justices directly came to the law’s defense
yesterday, although several asked whether states could take
other steps to protect physician privacy. Justice  Sonia
Sotomayor  asked whether a state could adopt an “opt out” rule
so that doctors could prevent their information from being used
by marketers. Thomas Goldstein, the lawyer representing the
challengers to the law, said states could.  The justices will likely rule by the end of June in the
case, Sorrell v. IMS Health, 10-779.  BankAtlantic Wins Reversal in Shareholder Stock-Fraud Case  BankAtlantic Bancorp Inc. (BBX)  won a judge’s reversal of a jury
verdict that awarded shareholders $2.41 a share in damages based
on alleged stock-fraud.  The jury last year in federal court in Miami found that
bank officials ignored lending guidelines in approving land-
development loans and then misrepresented problems with those
deals in public statements.  “Even if a defrauded plaintiff sells his shares at a lower
price after the truth of the fraud is revealed to the market,”
the loss “may reflect not the earlier misrepresentation, but
changed economic circumstances,” among other things, U.S.
District Judge Ursula Ungaro said in a 112-page opinion April
25, citing previous rulings.  Evidence to the contrary “was insufficient” to support
the verdict, the judge wrote. The plaintiffs also “did not
produce sufficient evidence to support an award of damages in
any amount,” Ungaro said.  “We are extremely surprised by the judge’s ruling and
respectfully disagree,” Mark Arisohn, an attorney for the
plaintiffs, said in a statement. “As the court mentioned in its
decision, this issue will be resolved on appeal.”  BankAtlantic traded at more than $44 in January 2005. The
Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based bank suffered a series of losses
in the wake of an economic decline triggered by the collapse of
the U.S. subprime-mortgage market in 2007.  “BankAtlantic lost money and Bancorp’s stock price
declined largely because of the collapse of the Florida real
estate market, a risk that was fully disclosed,” BankAtlantic
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Alan B. Levan said in a
statement yesterday.  The case is In re BankAtlantic Bancorp Inc. Securities
Litigation, 07-cv-61542, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of Florida (Miami).  U.S. Must Protect Offshore Drilling Environment, Groups Say  Environmentalists urged a New Orleans appellate court to
require U.S. offshore drilling regulators to enforce safeguards
for wildlife and water quality that they claim were routinely
ignored before last year’s  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill.  Lawyers representing the  Sierra Club , the Gulf Restoration
Network, the Center for Biological Diversity and other activist
groups yesterday asked the court to force the Interior
Department to rescind several deep-water drilling permits
regulators approved last April, just before and after the worst
offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  The activists complain that the relationship between the
oil industry and its regulators has been too cozy, resulting in
lax oversight and environmental damage. They claim that five
specific drilling permits were awarded last April without
completion of the full environmental-impact assessments required
by law.  “What the agency did was rubber-stamp the plans,” Monica
Reimer, an attorney for  Earthjustice , said during yesterday’s
hearing at the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans.
“We believe they need to be reopened, and that those plans must
come before the court after the agency has done a complete
environmental assessment.”  The activist groups sued Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar
and his agency seeking multiple changes to U.S. drilling
regulations following the Deepwater Horizon disaster last April.
The rig exploded while drilling a BP well off the Louisiana
coast, killing 11 workers. The subsea gusher spewed more than
4.1 million gallons of crude into the  Gulf of Mexico .  Much of the Gulf’s fisheries were closed, wildlife was
injured or killed, and hundreds of miles of shoreline was fouled
by the drifting oil.  A three-judge appellate panel consolidated the
environmental policy challenges into two groups and heard
arguments on them in back-to-back sessions yesterday.  The lead cases are Gulf Restoration Network v. Salazar, 10-
60411, and Center for Biological Diversity v. Salazar, 10-60417,
both in the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  Rajaratnam Jurors Hear Tapes, Weigh Insider-Trading Elements  Jurors in the  Raj Rajaratnam  insider-trading trial are
doing precisely what a federal prosecutor urged them to:
listening to wiretaps of the defendant’s phone calls.  Yesterday, the panel asked to rehear nine recordings,
including one of Rajaratnam talking with former McKinsey & Co.
partner Anil Kumar. Kumar pleaded guilty in the case and told
the jury how he tipped Rajaratnam to news about clients. In the
call, recorded March 24, 2008, Kumar discussed a possible
transaction between Fujitsu Ltd. and Lenovo Group Ltd.  “They are very, very far in discussion,” Kumar could be
heard saying as jurors sat in silence in the jury box in
Manhattan federal court.  Rajaratnam, 53, was arrested in October 2009 in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors say he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about stocks including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Clearwire Corp.
Rajaratnam, who says he based the trades on research, faces as
long as 20 years in prison on some counts.  In another call replayed yesterday, Rajaratnam and his
brother Rengan are heard discussing whether another McKinsey
employee might become a source of inside tips. The jurors
listened to Raj Rajaratnam, co-founder of Galleon Group LLC,
chatting with his friend Rajiv Goel, who was an executive at
Intel before he pleaded guilty and testified for prosecutors.  Jurors also reheard a recording of Rajaratnam talking to
Krish Panu, a director of PeopleSupport Inc., about a
transaction involving the company; a conversation between Kumar
and Rajaratnam about a possible role for Kumar in a firm co-
founded by Rajaratnam; and Rajaratnam talking with a Galleon
trader about the stock market’s performance on Sept. 12, 2008.  The jurors, who began deliberating April 25, didn’t explain
why they wanted to hear the calls. More than 40 such recordings
were played at trial.  Leading the jury’s discussions is a 56-year-old man who has
worked for two years as a graphic artist for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  A native
of Manhattan’s Lower East Side, the juror, who was selected as
foreman, has lived in the Bronx for about a decade. He’s one of
three men on the 12-person jury.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Galleon Trader Craig Drimal Pleads Guilty to Fraud  Craig Drimal, a former trader at Galleon Group LLC charged
with insider trading in a federal investigation of the New York
hedge fund, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and five counts of
securities fraud.  Drimal, 54, said yesterday in federal court in New York
that he and others at Galleon traded on inside information
obtained from lawyers working on transactions involving 3Com
Corp. and Axcan Pharma Inc. in 2007. Drimal said the information
was obtained from Arthur Cutillo and Brien Santarlas, lawyers at
Boston-based Ropes & Gray LLP.  “At the time I did these trades, I believed my conduct was
illegal and wrong, and I deeply regret these actions which
caused so much pain to my family and friends,” Drimal told U.S.
District Judge  Richard Sullivan .  Drimal and co-defendants faced trial next month for
allegedly taking part in what prosecutors said was one of three
insider-trading rings tied to Galleon. The jury in the trial of
the fund’s co-founder, Raj Rajaratnam, began deliberating April
25.  Drimal is the 21st person to plead guilty in overlapping
schemes. The Galleon probe became a nationwide investigation
implicating other hedge funds, banks, technology companies and
so-called expert-networking consulting firms.  Drimal was accused in a new indictment filed April 7 of
conspiracy and five counts of securities fraud. Drimal, along
with four other accused traders pleaded not guilty April 19 to
the new federal charges.  Sullivan handed Drimal a setback on April 20 when he lost a
bid to suppress phone conversations secretly recorded by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Amazon.com Seeks Dismissal of Apple Lawsuit Over ‘ App Store ’  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , responding to a trademark lawsuit by Apple
Inc. over its use of the words “App Store,” said the term is
generic and denied that the iPhone maker has exclusive rights to
the phrase.  Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, said it isn’t
required to obtain a license or authorization to use “App
Store” because the term is “unprotectable” and won’t be
confused or unfairly compete with Apple’s App Store service,
according to an April 25 filing in federal court in Oakland,
California. Amazon’s Appstore offering downloads of software for
Android devices opened March 22. App is short for application.  “Based on their common meaning, the words ‘app store’
together denote a store for apps, such as the app stores
operated by Amazon and Apple,” Amazon said in the filing.  Apple’s lawsuit, filed March 18, should be thrown out and a
court order confirming Amazon’s right to use the words should be
issued, Seattle-based Amazon said.  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  Apple’s App Store, started in 2008, offers downloads of
programs from the company and third-party developers to users of
iPhones, iPod media players and iPad tablet computers.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, applied to register
App Store as a  trademark  in the U.S., and the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office approved the application, Apple said in the
lawsuit.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Amazon.com Inc., 11-1327, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Chinese Drywall Cases Partially Settled by Supplier InEx  Interior/Exterior Building Supply Ltd. of Louisiana agreed
to pay $8 million cash and assign $72 million in insurance
rights to resolve claims by thousands of U.S. property owners
whose homes were ruined by defective Chinese drywall.  Terms of the proposed settlement were set out in papers
filed yesterday in federal court in New Orleans, where thousands
of claims over corrosive drywall made in  China  have been
consolidated before U.S. District Judge  Eldon Fallon .  “This is the first Chinese drywall settlement with a major
supplier, Interior/Exterior, and a number of its insurers,”
 Russ Herman , liaison counsel in the multidistrict litigation,
said in a statement.  InEx’s primary insurers, Arch Insurance Co. and Liberty
Mutual Fire Insurance Co., each agreed to pay $4 million cash
toward the claims. InEx assigned claimants its rights to pursue
an additional $72 million in excess insurance coverage from
North River Insurance Co., according to the court papers.  If Fallon approves the deal, claimants will be divided into
two categories. Louisiana property owners will form one class;
all other U.S. homeowners will form the other. InEx assigned the
rights to the excess insurance to the non-Louisiana class,
according to court papers.  The case is In re Chinese-Manufactured Drywall Products
Liability Litigation, 2:09-md-02047, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 