-- 
Drug Websites’ Influence on Consumers to Be Scrutinized by FDA

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-27T17:15:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/drug-websites-influence-on-consumers-to-be-scrutinized-by-fda.html
Consumer reactions to prescription-
drug websites will be assessed by U.S. regulators researching
how to apply decades-old advertising rules to social media.  The  Food and Drug Administration  proposed three studies in
which participants would answer questions after viewing various
versions of a website touting a fictitious drug, according to a
 notice  to be published tomorrow in the Federal Register. The
public has 60 days to comment on the plan.  The FDA may issue rules this year outlining how drugmakers
led by  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  can post more tweets and online videos
without violating marketing rules written for print, radio and
television. Prescription drug ads touting products’ benefits
must also provide information about risks, according to the FDA
notice. Declining sales and pressure to trim costs are pushing
manufacturers to find cheaper ways such as social media sites
Twitter and Facebook to advertise to doctors and patients.  “Currently, there are a number of questions surrounding
how to achieve ‘fair balance’” in online direct-to-consumer
promotions, the agency said. The proposed web-advertising
studies are “relevant to current policy questions and debate
and will complement qualitative research we plan to conduct on
issues surrounding social media.”  The studies would include an examination of whether
personal testimonial videos posted on drug websites influence
consumer perceptions of the product. FDA officials also will
investigate whether the prominence of risk information on a
website affects people’s understanding of possible side effects.  Previous research on prescription-drug websites has shown
that “risk information is often presented less prominently and
in fewer locations on the website” than information about
benefits, according to the FDA notice. Disclosures about risks
also are “often incomplete and written at very high literacy
levels,” the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  