-- 
DSM Profit Beats Estimates on Demand for High-Grade Polymers

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-04-27T07:28:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/dsm-profit-beats-estimates-on-demand-for-high-grade-polymers-1-.html
Royal DSM NV reported first-quarter
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates and predicted 2011 will
be “strong,” sending shares of the Dutch vitamin and polymers
maker up the most in almost a year.  Earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and
depreciation from continuing operations increased to 325 million
euros ($478 million) from 284 million euros, the Heerlen,
Netherlands-based company said in a statement today. Analysts
predicted 287.8 million euros, on average. DSM climbed as much
as 4.8 percent, its biggest intraday gain since May 26.  “DSM expects trading conditions to continue in the rest of
the year as in the strong first quarter,” Chief Financial
Officer Rolf-Dieter Schwalb said on a call. “We are optimistic
that we have strength in the market and can pass on costs.”  Chief Executive Officer Feike Sijbesma sold fertilizer,
melamine and citric-acid businesses, aiming to expand in more
profitable food ingredients and synthetic fibers. The disposals
were part of a transformation of DSM into a so-called life
sciences company using organisms to make materials applicable to
industry. DSM is still overhauling its drug-making business as
it seeks an Asian partner to win more contracts.  DSM rose 2 euros, or 4.7 percent, to 45.46 euros in
Amsterdam trading as of 9:18 a.m. local time. Prior to today,
the Dutch maker of enzymes and catalysts had risen 1.9 percent
this year, with its market value at about 7.88 billion euros.  Sales in the quarter gained 16 percent to 2.23 billion
euros. Analysts predicted 2.16 billion euros, according to the
median of 10 estimates. Net income rose 28 percent to 166
million euros.  Acquisitions  Sijbesma is seeking further acquisitions to bolster the
company’s nutritional division after the purchase of Martek
Biosciences Corp. for $1.09 billion in February. Western
chemical makers are scrambling to buy science-based businesses
that offer higher-margins and faster growth, along with less
competition from petrochemical makers in the Middle East and
 Asia .  DSM is interested in making more acquisitions in the same
vein as its $1.09 billion purchase of U.S.-based Martek
Biosciences, yet it is “far away” from taking on any deal that
would jeopardize its A3 and A credit ratings from Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s , Schwalb said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  