-- 
DSM Says ‘No Pause’ in Acquisitions as Profit Tops Estimates

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-04-27T10:09:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/dsm-says-no-pause-in-acquisitions-as-profit-tops-estimates.html
Royal DSM NV, the world’s biggest
maker of vitamins, said it is capable of pursuing other
potential acquisitions even as it works to integrate its $1.09
billion purchase of Martek Biosciences Corp.  There will be “no pause” in the takeover strategy with
other targets like Martek out there, Chief Financial Officer
Rolf-Dieter Schwalb said on a call. First-quarter earnings beat
estimates, sending DSM shares up the most in two years.  Chief Executive Officer Feike Sijbesma last year sold
fertilizer, melamine and citric-acid businesses, aiming to
expand in more profitable food ingredients and synthetic fibers.
The disposals were part of a decade-long transformation of DSM
into a so-called life sciences company using organisms to make
materials applicable to industry.  “The company has a war chest of more than 2 billion euros
and management has a strong track record of doing
acquisitions,” said Mutlu Gundogan, an analyst at Royal Bank of
 Scotland , which has a “buy” recommendation on DSM shares.  Operating profit from continued operations rose 14 percent
to 325 million euros ($478 million) in the first quarter,
beating a 287.8 million-euro analyst estimate.  The Dutch maker of enzymes climbed as much as 7.1 percent
in Amsterdam trading, its biggest intraday gain since March
2009. The stock was up 4.9 percent at 45.54 euros as of 10:43
a.m. local time. Prior to today, it had risen 1.9 percent this
year, for a market value at 7.88 billion euros.  Protective of Rating  DSM sees the current “strong” business conditions
continuing in the rest of the year and the company is optimistic
that the extra burden of raw-material costs can be passed on to
customers.  The shares are trading at a 25 percent discount to peers
and are “too cheap to ignore,” said Gundogan. Takeovers would
act as a trigger for further stock gains, the analyst said.  The company’s focus has switched to developing nutritional
supplements as well as enzymes that can be used to convert
leftover stalks and roots into biofuel, amid the wider debate
surrounding the direct use of sugar cane and other food crops.  While DSM plans more acquisitions the company is “far
away” from taking on any deal that would jeopardize its A3 and
A credit ratings from Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor’s , Schwalb said today.  DSM is in the midst of a tie-up with  Sinochem Group 
involving its penicillin unit, though the timing of a final
agreement is difficult to predict, the CFO said today. It agreed
to sell a 50 percent stake to the Chinese chemicals group for
210 million euros last year, ending a six year search for a
partner.  DSM is still overhauling the rest of its drug-making
business as it seeks an Asian partner to win more contracts from
pharmaceutical companies seeking to outsource production. The
alliance with Sinochem could be expanded to other areas if the
initial venture goes well, Schwalb said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Sheenagh Matthews at
   smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  