-- 
Le Bernardin’s Ripert, $1,000 Langoustine Meal Aid Tibet Exiles

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-04-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/le-bernardin-s-ripert-1-000-langoustine-meal-aid-tibet-exiles.html
Earlier this month, City Harvest
Inc. auctioned a dinner for 12 cooked by Eric Ripert that
brought the charity $80,000.  This week, Le Bernardin’s executive chef is luring foodies
to a $1,000-a-person charity banquet cooked by star chefs at the
Pierre Hotel to benefit the  Tibet Fund , which aids exiles.  “Tibetan people are oppressed,” said Ripert, 46, a
Buddhist who supports many Tibetan causes, in an interview at
his restaurant. But they have “decided to fight in a peaceful
way. I like that.”  For tomorrow’s Tibet Fund event, Ripert enlisted all-star
chefs, each of whom will prepare a special menu for groups of 20
ticket buyers. The organization also will honor Richard Gere, a
longtime supporter who helped the Tibet Fund buy its  office
space , and Donald and Shelley Rubin, the founders of  Manhattan ’s
 Rubin Museum of Art .  Ripert will make langoustine; “Top Chef” judge  Tom Colicchio  will serve slow-cooked farm egg and spring peas; April Bloomfield of The Spotted Pig and The Breslin plans to serve
poached cod. Other chefs participating include Annisa’s Anita Lo
(sea scallop ceviche);  Del Posto ’s Mark Ladner (pasta and
fagioli); Millesime’s Laurent Manrique (roasted duck breast);
and Scott Conant of Scarpetta in  Los Angeles  (ramp and fava
risotto).  Ripert began supporting the Tibet Fund about three years
ago when he became a sponsor for its discussion series, Wisdom &
Compassion for Challenging Times.  “Eric is a truly compassionate man, and he’s very, very
down to earth,” Tibet Fund President Rinchen Dharlo said by
phone. “More important, his help came at a time when the
economy was down and our income shrank.”  Antibes,  Andorra   Born in Antibes,  France , and raised in Andorra, Ripert left
home at age 15 to attend culinary school. At 17, he was cooking
at the legendary La Tour d’Argent in Paris. After working as a
sous-chef at Jean Louis at  Washington ’s Watergate Hotel, he came
to New York in 1991 to work as a sous-chef for David Bouley
before Le Bernardin recruited him. In 1997, he was regarded as
one of the top chefs in the world. When the  Michelin Guide  made
its debut in the U.S. in 2005, it gave Le Bernardin its highest
rating of three stars, and repeated the honor in 2006 and 2007.  Ripert said he became interested in charity work one night
when he saw homeless people on the street near Le Bernardin’s
doors. He became a supporter of City Harvest, the New York
charity that re-distributes about 23 million pounds of food each
year.  ‘Very Happy’  He donated $1 for every lunch and dinner served at Le
Bernardin in 2009 for a total of about $93,000.  With the economy in decline, “I wasn’t sure that we were
not going to be laying off people,” said Ripert, a City Harvest
board member. “We were able to write a check to City Harvest
every month, and at the end of the year, I was very, very
happy.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 