-- 
ECB Says Banks Tighten Credit Standards Amid Uncertainty

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-04-27T08:09:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/ecb-says-banks-tighten-credit-standards-on-economic-uncertainty.html
Euro-area banks are tightening
credit standards after uncertainty over the economic outlook and
their access to market financing increased, the  European Central
Bank  said, citing its quarterly Bank Lending Survey.  “Euro-area banks generally tightened their credit
standards in the first quarter of 2011, albeit moderately, on
loans to both non-financial corporations and households,” the
Frankfurt-based ECB said in a statement today. “Looking ahead,
euro-area banks expect a further moderate tightening of credit
standards” in the second quarter, it said.  Banks remain wary of lending after  Portugal  became the
third euro-area nation to succumb to the region’s sovereign debt
crisis and as speculation mounts that  Greece  may need to
restructure its debt. At the same time, financing needs in
countries like  Germany  are picking up as companies look to boost
capacity to meet export demand.  Euro-area banks reported a “notable increase” in
companies’ loan demand, which was “mainly driven” by higher
financing needs for investment, the ECB said. Prospects for loan
demand remain “broadly positive,” it added.  The ECB this month raised its benchmark interest rate for
the first time in almost three years to 1.25 percent from 1
percent to curb inflation. Investor expectations for two more
quarter-point increases to 1.75 percent are “well founded,”
ECB council member Ewald Nowotny said on April 16.  “It is important that banks continue to expand the
provision of credit to the private sector in an environment of
increasing demand,” ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said this
month.  The bank lending survey was conducted between March 14 and
March 31 among 124 banks in the euro region, the ECB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  