-- 
ECB's Council Member Liikanen Says Europe’s Single Currency Not in Crisis

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-04-27T06:08:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/ecb-s-council-member-liikanen-says-europe-s-single-currency-not-in-crisis.html
European Central Bank council
member  Erkki Liikanen  said the single currency isn’t in crisis,
even after a third country in the bloc sought a bailout and as
 Finland ’s next government may limit the region’s rescue tools.  “There is no crisis of the euro,” Liikanen told a public
seminar at the Bank of Finland in Helsinki yesterday. “Look at
the  exchange rate , it’s remained quite stable.”  Liikanen, who is also governor at the Finnish central bank,
said it’s up to the euro region’s individual members to keep
their public finances in order. The comments come as Finland’s
April 17 election saw the country’s anti-bailout party become
the third-biggest in parliament and a likely partner in a
coalition between Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen’s National
Coalition and the  Social Democrats .  The euro gained 0.2 percent against the dollar to trade at
1.4675 at 7:07 a.m. in  London . It has strengthened 9.7 percent
against the greenback this year.  The True Finns, whose leader Timo Soini says taxpayers
shouldn’t have helped rescue  Greece  or Ireland, surged almost 15
points to 19 percent in the election. Katainen’s pro-euro group
won 20.4 percent to become Finland’s biggest party for the first
time. The Social Democrats, which also opposed bailouts for the
two countries, won 19.1 percent.  The European Union won’t prepare an alternative package to
aid Portugal if Finland doesn’t participate, European
Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs Olli Rehn said
yesterday, according to Finland’s state-owned broadcaster YLE.  Euro-Area Yields  Yields on  government securities  from Greece, Ireland and
Portugal reached records yesterday amid speculation the heavily
indebted nations won’t escape restructuring.  Ireland’s two-year yield reached a euro-era record 12.08
percent after the European Union said the nation’s debt burden
surged the most in the currency area last year. Greek two-year
yields have climbed almost 870 basis points this month, reaching
24.45 percent yesterday as investors priced in losses, or so-
called haircuts, they may incur in the event of a restructuring.
Lars Feld, a member of German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s council
of economic advisers, said Greece cannot avoid restructuring its
debts.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  