-- 
Education Management Net Tops Estimates as Enrollment Rises

-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 
2011-04-27T20:41:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/education-management-net-tops-estimates-as-enrollment-rises-1-.html
Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the
second-largest U.S. for-profit college operator, posted third-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as enrollment 
increased.  Net income fell to $73 million, or 53 cents a share, in the
period ended March 31, from $84.6 million, or 59 cents, a year
earlier, according to a statement today from the Pittsburgh-
based company, which is 40 percent owned by  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  funds. Analysts projected profit of 48 cents a share, the
average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. Education Department and Congress are scrutinizing
student-loan defaults, sales practices and job-placement records
of for-profit colleges, which may receive as much as 90 percent
of their revenue from federal financial-aid programs. Education
companies, which have shored up earnings through cost-cutting,
must show investors they can continue to report growing
enrollment, said Peter Appert, an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co.  “The challenge for everyone in this industry is to adjust
their business models in this evolving regulatory environment to
improve outcomes for students,” Appert said in a telephone
interview from  San Francisco . He has a “neutral” rating on
Education Management and doesn’t own shares.  Education Management fell 7 cents to $19.39 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained
7.1 percent this year.  Student enrollment at the company -- whose institutions
include the Art Institute chain, Argosy University, Brown Mackie
College and South University -- rose 6.6 percent, to 148,800 as
of April, from 139,600 a year earlier, the company said.  Third-quarter revenue climbed to $754.3 million from $667.9
million a year earlier.  Fourth-Quarter Outlook  Education Management forecast profit for the current
quarter of 25 cents to 27 cents a share. Analysts on average
predicted 31 cents.  DeVry Inc. (DV) , which has more than 129,000 students in its
degree-granting programs, jumped 7.2 percent to $53.70 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading today, a day after posting
third-quarter earnings that topped analysts’ estimates. DeVry,
based in  Downers Grove ,  Illinois , was the second-biggest gainer
on a percentage basis in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Enrollment increases at DeVry’s Chamberlain College of
Nursing and its unit in  Brazil  helped offset declines in new
students signing up at DeVry University in the U.S., Chief
Executive Officer Daniel Hamburger said in a statement.  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , operator of the University of Phoenix,
the largest for-profit college chain, reported last month a
decline in enrollment and revenue as the Phoenix-based company
began a program that lets students sample classes before signing
on.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in  Boston  at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 