-- 
Left, Right Can Love Tax Plan: Laurence Kotlikoff, Andrew Weiss

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f   a n d   A n d r e w   W e i s s
-- 
2011-04-27T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/left-right-can-love-taxes-commentary-by-laurence-kotlikoff-andrew-weiss.html
Malcolm has $30 billion, a passion
for steaks, and a plan to buy 3 billion steaks for $10 each on
his next birthday.  But an election is coming, pitting Lefty, from a blue
state, against Righty, from a red state. Lefty hates the rich
and wants to levy a 15 percent  wealth tax . Righty loves the rich
and wants to levy a 17.5 percent  sales tax .  Everyone knows a wealth tax is progressive and a sales tax
is regressive, but Malcolm is scratching his head.  “If Lefty wins, I’ll pay a $4.5 billion tax, which means
450 million fewer steaks. If Righty wins, the price of steaks
will rise by 17.5 percent to $11.75, and my $30 billion will buy
450 million fewer steaks. Either way, I’m out 450 million
steaks.”  Then Malcolm says, “What if I wait 10 years to have my
Here’s-the-Beef Bash? I can double my money and postpone the
sales tax. Righty is surely my candidate.”  But Malcolm reconsiders the math and shakes his head.  “If Lefty’s elected, I lose $4.5 billion immediately. I
can turn my remaining $25.5 billion into $51 billion over 10
years and buy 5.1 billion steaks. If Righty wins, I can turn my
$30 billion into $60 billion over the decade, but, given the
sales tax, the $60 billion buys 5.1 billion steaks. It’s the
identical story. And if the $10 base price of steak rises, I’ll
be in even worse shape, but the same worse shape in both cases.  Moreover, if I forget my birthday and leave everything to
my kids, they’ll also fare the same regardless. If Lefty wins,
I’ll leave them less money, and if Righty wins, I’ll leave them
more money, but with less purchasing power.  Hit Timing  In fact, even the timing of the tax’s real hit is
identical. Lefty takes my money immediately, and Righty raises
my prices immediately. Both immediately take away my purchasing
power.”  Malcolm is right. Taxing what you buy is no different from
taxing what you have to spend. In other words, taxing
consumption is effectively equivalent to taxing current wealth
and current and future wages.  We propose a  tax reform  -- and Lord knows we need one --
that recognizes this equivalence. Our plan taxes all retail
sales at a 17.5 percent rate. But if you don’t want to pay the
retail sales tax, you can pay, up front, a 15 percent tax on
your wages and wealth. Every dollar of tax you pay up front
gives you an electronic sales-tax credit, for use when shopping,
which exempts $1 of consumption from the 17.5 percent retail
sales tax. Unused credits grow with interest, so you aren’t
penalized by waiting to spend.  Happy Together  Lefties can elect to pay taxes on their wages and wealth,
and righties can elect to pay taxes at the store. Lefties will
perceive a progressive tax system because they see it taxing
wealth as well as wages. Righties will perceive a regressive tax
system.  They will both be happy, though they will both be wrong.  Taxing consumption, either directly or indirectly, at a
fixed rate is neither progressive nor regressive. It’s
proportional. If you double someone’s economic resources, you
double their future spending, and you double their consumption
tax payments. This holds even if the resources are spent over
time or bequeathed for others to spend.  Since consumption taxation is proportional, we’ve added a
monthly payment by  Uncle Sam  to each household, which depends
only on the number and ages of household members. This payment
is large enough to ensure that households living at or below the
poverty line pay no net tax.  Staying Progressive  Lefties can call the monthly payment a “demogrant,” and
righties can call it a “tax rebate.” Regardless, the monthly
payment makes the tax plan progressive. For Malcolm the
billionaire, the payment is a pittance. But for a family of four
with poverty-level earnings of $22,050, the $3,891 they would
receive over the year is major.  Our progressive consumption tax plan replaces the U.S.’s
extraordinarily complex, inefficient and inequitable personal
income tax, corporate income tax, and estate and gift tax. It
taxes all household, government, nonprofit and business
consumption of final goods and services. Those suffering
economic distress can defer, at interest, paying consumption
taxes on the services associated with their homes.  Our overhaul has additional elements. We make the  payroll
tax  that funds Social Security and Medicare much more
progressive by removing the ceiling on taxable earnings, now at
$106,800. The plan also would exempt employee contributions on
the first $40,000 of earnings, index that $40,000 to real wage
growth, and require payroll contributions on wages paid in the
form of business ownership rights. We tax, at a 15 percent rate,
the cumulative value, above $1 million, of all gifts and
inheritances received, directly or via trusts.  Going Broke  The plan also would impose transition rules that tax
pensions and retirement-account assets on which future taxes are
due as well as unrealized  capital gains  on existing asset
holdings.  Our country is saving nothing, investing nothing, growing
more unequal, going broke and pulling apart. The current tax
system makes these problems much worse. Our plan, called the
Purple Tax Plan (www.thepurpletaxplan.org), provides a simple
and transparent tax system with much better incentives to work
and save, much greater revenue-generating capacity, and much
greater equity. Best of all, both parties can call the plan
their own.  ( Laurence Kotlikoff , professor of economics at  Boston
University  and president of Economic Security Planning Inc., is
a Bloomberg News columnist.  Andrew Weiss  is professor emeritus
of economics at Boston University and founder, president and
chief investment officer of Weiss Asset Management. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this column:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@bu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  