-- 
ElBaradei Oozes Crazy Logic, Anti-U.S. Bent: George Walden

-- B y   G e o r g e   W a l d e n
-- 
2011-04-27T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/egypt-s-elbaradei-oozes-slippery-logic-anti-western-bent-george-walden.html
Here’s a nifty piece of timing:
“The Age of Deception,” a memoir by  Mohamed ElBaradei , has
arrived in bookstores at the moment when its author is seeking
to replace Egypt’s toppled president,  Hosni Mubarak .  ElBaradei and the  International Atomic Energy Agency  he
directed for 12 years shared the Nobel Peace Prize in 2005. His
stewardship of this arm of the  United Nations  coincided with
nuclear showdowns in Iraq,  Iran ,  North Korea  and Syria.  In “The Age of Deception,” we learn a lot about the ruses
that these governments used to conceal illicit nuclear programs.
We get a look at backroom tensions between the agency and
Western leaders as well as insights into the international
nuclear bazaar run by the father of the Pakistani atomic bomb,
Abdul Qadeer Khan.  What we learn most about, however, is ElBaradei himself.
His political ambitions, which predate the recent turmoil in his
homeland, are prominently on display. The tone is anti-Western
throughout.  Sometimes he has a point. The failure of weapons of mass
destruction to materialize in  Iraq  is an easy target, as is the
lack of progress nuclear powers have made on disarmament. He’s
also right that the U.S. has often exhibited a lack of cultural
sensitivity in its dealings with the Mideast.  Bashing the U.S.  Yet with ElBaradei things go further. The chief impediment
to stopping nuclear proliferation, he repeatedly suggests, isn’t
so much the rogue regimes of Iran, North Korea, Syria or  Saddam Hussein ’s Iraq. It’s the U.S.  “You seem to be picking on us more than you pick on the
imams,” Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice complained, and she
was right.  It’s on Iran that ElBaradei’s partiality emerges most
clearly. During tortuous negotiations with Tehran, the U.S. has
been duplicitous, concealed intelligence and shown rank
stupidity, he says. Not once does he entertain the possibility
that Tehran might be developing a nuclear bomb and playing for
time while it gets it.  His is a crazy, weasel-worded logic. After stating that the
Iranians have been guilty of systematic lying and deception, he
insists there’s no evidence that they want the bomb. He even
comes close to exonerating the regime’s mendacity: Lying for the
right cause can be acceptable in Shiite theology, he says, and
U.S. attempts to isolate the country gave the Iranians little
alternative. Especially since the Tehran leadership, like their
American counterparts, faced pressure from domestic hard-liners.  Slippery Lawyer  Spurious parallels between a democracy and a theocratic
dictatorship make ElBaradei sound like a slippery lawyer -- and
his career did indeed begin at the bar. If Iran comes up with a
nuclear weapon, I can imagine him rationalizing that, too.
Unless, of course, he becomes president of Egypt, in which case
he will face pressures to develop a bomb of his own. The
historical irony would be succulent.  It isn’t just Iran. In discussing the 2007 bombing of a
suspected nuclear reactor in  Syria , ElBaradei is hard on  Israel 
and the U.S., but softer on Syria itself. Even Saddam Hussein’s
lies about his nuclear program before his invasion of  Kuwait  are
implicitly excused, by reference to Israel’s alleged possession
of atomic weapons.  As for Iraq’s hindrance of UN inspectors during the lead-up
to the U.S.-led invasion in 2003, ElBaradei offers this almost
comic understatement: “The Iraqis could have acted faster and
shown more transparency.”  Elsewhere, the book describes frictions and rivalries with
his colleagues, notably Hans Blix, the former UN chief weapons
inspector. Pretty well everyone except ElBaradei, we are told,
got things wrong.  ‘Courteous’ Ahmadinejad  Along with self-justification, we get a helping of self-
aggrandizement. Hobnobbing with presidents -- ElBaradei met
 George W. Bush ,  Barack Obama , Nicolas Sarkozy, Vladimir Putin --
he presents himself as an international statesman, one given to
questionable judgments and pontificating beyond his nuclear
brief. After meeting Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, he describes the
Iranian leader as “courteous and reasonable,” in contrast to
his “demonization” in the West.  Egyptian voters will make of ElBaradei what they will.
Westerners will ask what they should expect if he rises to power
in  Egypt . On the evidence of this book, we can anticipate anti-
Americanism, a tougher line on Israel, a rapprochement with Iran
and Syria, wheeling and dealing on a grand scale, a touchy
vanity, and a lack of the steel and charisma needed to hold his
fractious country together.  No wonder the Muslim Brotherhood has said in the past that
it would support him.  “The Age of Deception: Nuclear Diplomacy in Treacherous
Times” is from  Metropolitan  in the U.S. and from  Bloomsbury  in
the U.K. (322 pages, $27, 20 pounds). To buy this book in  North
America , click  here .  (George Walden, a former U.K. diplomat and member of
Parliament, is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
 George Walden  in London at  gwashch@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Pressley at   jpressley@bloomberg.net . 