-- 
Mobinil Posts Second-Quarter Net Loss of 108.5 Mln Egypt Pounds

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-07-26T20:37:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/egypt-s-mobinil-first-quarter-net-income-declines-by-85-1-.html
Egyptian Co. for Mobile Service, the
country’s second-biggest mobile-network operator, said it posted
a second-quarter net loss, it attributed to a new tax regime.  The net loss for the period that ended June 30 was 108.5
million Egyptian pounds ($18.2 million) compared with a net
profit of 378.7 million Egyptian pounds a year earlier, the
Cairo-based company said in an e-mailed statement today. Mobinil
posted second-quarter net income of 80.1 million Egyptian pounds
before applying new tax rules, it said. That compares with 228
million Egyptian pounds, the median of seven analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Mobinil has been active seeking to reduce the impact of
the exceptional first quarter and to cope with the continuous
unstable political and economic environment,” Chief Executive
Officer Hassan Kabbani said in the statement. “During the
second quarter of 2011, we started to see positive trend and
improvements in our results as some of the adverse factors that
affected Q1 started to diminish.”  The company, also known as Mobinil, had seen its first-
quarter profit plunge 94 percent as the popular revolt that
toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  in February interrupted
communication services. The company, partly owned by  France
Telecom SA (FTE) , said it expects to start offering mobile banking
services by year-end as it seeks to diversify revenue sources
amid increasing competition from the local units of  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  and Emirates Telecommunications Corp.  Shares of Mobinil fell 1.2 percent to 106 Egyptian pounds
at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo, the lowest level since November
2008, bringing the decline this year to 36 percent. That gave
the company a market value of 10.6 billion Egyptian pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Dubai at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net  