-- 
Egypt May Keep Key Interest Rate Unchanged as Growth Slows

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-04-27T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/egypt-may-keep-key-interest-rate-unchanged-as-growth-slows.html
Egypt ’s  central bank  will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate at the lowest level in more
than four years as the need to boost economic growth outweighs
concerns about inflation.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Farouk El- Okdah, will keep the overnight deposit rate at 8.25 percent, the
lowest since November 2006, when it meets today, according to
five of six economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. One economist
forecast a decrease of 50 basis points. The Cairo-based bank
typically meets at 3 p.m. and announces the decision two hours
later.  The turmoil that accompanied the revolt that ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak  in February may reduce economic growth
to 1 percent this year, the  International Monetary Fund  said in
its World Economic Outlook on April 11, the lowest annual rate
since 1992. At the same time, an increase in food prices, one of
the factors that helped drive the anti-Mubarak revolt, drove
inflation to an annual rate of 11.5 percent in March from 10.7
percent in the previous month.  “Their priority now is going to be growth rather than
inflation,” John Sfakianakis, the Riyadh-based chief economist
of Banque Saudi Fransi, said in a telephone interview. “There
is no way that I expect them to increase rates given these
challenges.”  Growth Target  Egypt is targeting growth of 4 percent in the next fiscal
year that starts in July, Finance Minister Samir Radwan told
reporters in  Kuwait  on April 26. Rising borrowing costs and a
 budget deficit  the government expects to widen to a six-year
high this year have prompted Radwan to turn to the International
Monetary Fund and the  World Bank  for as much as $6.2 billion of
soft loans.  The central bank introduced a seven-day regular repurchase
agreement, or repo, to boost liquidity among banks that have
borne the brunt of buying treasury bills after foreign investors
dumped Egyptian securities following the uprising. The central
bank accepted 8.36 billion Egyptian pounds ($1.4 billion) in
bids on April 19, the highest amount since the facility was
introduced in March.  The regulator also eased requirements for booking
provisions on non-performing loans as it shifts its “focus
toward borrower solvency and banking sector soundness,” Cairo-
based Pharos Holding for Financial Investments said in an April
21 report.  Food Prices  In an attempt to ease the rise in food prices, the bank
also in March extended an exemption on a cash cover for meat,
poultry and sugar imports until the end of 2011. The measure
helped bring meat prices down 5.15 percent in March on a monthly
basis, the bank said on its website.  The government has also announced a plan to boost spending
on food subsidies by 10 billion pounds this fiscal year.  The crisis has driven the country’s benchmark EGX 30  stock
index  down 30 percent this year and sent the Egyptian pound to a
six-year-low. The economy contracted 7 percent in the third
quarter of the current fiscal year, Radwan said in a television
interview on April 19.  More bad data could mean that the bank cuts rates in the
future, Sfakianakis said. “The likelihood at some point of
lowering rates is increasing, rather than of raising rates at
this stage,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 