-- 
Egypt’s 10-Year Dollar Bond Yield at Lowest Since January as Tax Increase

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-06-01T16:44:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/egyptian-pound-interbank-rates-rises-to-highest-in-two-months.html
Egypt ’s 10-year dollar bond rallied
to the highest since January and credit risk fell after the
government said it would impose a capital gains tax of 10
percent as part of its attempt to curb the deficit.  The yield on the 5.75 percent security due in April 2020
tumbled 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 5.82
percent at 6:24 p.m. in Cairo, the lowest since Jan. 25. The
cost of insuring Egyptian government debt against default for
five-years fell 21 basis points to 304, according to data
provider CMA.  Profits from capital investments, dividend payments,
mergers and acquisitions and asset revaluations will be taxed,
Finance Minister Samir Radwan told reporters in Cairo today.
Egypt’s deficit may reach 10.95 percent of gross domestic
product in the fiscal year that ends in June 2012 after a revolt
that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  in February hurt revenue
from tourism and industrial output, Radwan said.  “Any increase in taxes should help the government reduce
the  budget deficit  which is a major concern for investors right
now,” said Moustafa Assal, head of fixed income at Cairo-based
Beltone Financial. “Sooner or later they had to apply the
capital gains tax, because they need to use all available means
to raise funds.”  The government will also raise taxes for individuals and
companies with an annual income of 10 million Egyptian pounds
($1.7 million) or more to 25 percent compared with 20 percent
this year.  The North African country is raising pay for state
employees and increasing fuel and food subsidies in the next
fiscal year. The budget gap will widen from an expected 8.6
percent of GDP in the year that ends this month, according to a
cabinet statement today.  CMA is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  