-- 
Electrolux Profit Drops; Company Sees Gain in Raw-Material Costs

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-27T06:03:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/electrolux-profit-drops-company-sees-gain-in-raw-material-costs.html
Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the world’s second-
biggest appliance maker, reported first-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates and predicted raw material costs will
increase this year.  Net income fell to 457 million kronor ($75 million), or
1.60 kronor a share, from 911 million kronor, or 3.19 kronor a
year earlier, the Stockholm-based company said today in a
statement. Pofit missed the average estimate of 529 million
kronor in a Bloomberg survey of 14 analyst. Sales fell 6.8
percent to 23.44 billion kronor.  “The prices of some of our most important raw materials
continue to increase, especially plastics,” Chief Executive
Officer Keith McLoughlin said in a separate statement. “Our
ambition is to gradually compensate for the increase in costs
through price increases, improvements in product mix and cost
savings.”  McLoughlin, an American who took over at the start of the
year, predicted raw material costs will increase by about 2
billion kronor this year. Electrolux aims to shift to a growth
phase after years of focusing on cost cuts by moving production
to lower-cost countries under former CEO Hans Straaberg. The CEO
is counting on a local presence in more than 150 markets as an
advantage over rivals such a  Whirlpool Corp.. (WHR)   Electrolux last month resumed negotiations to buy Egyptian
appliance maker  Olympic Group Financial Investments. (OLGR)  The Swedish
manufacturer in February had suspended a plan to buy Olympic
because of political unrest in  Egypt .  In one of his first actions, McLoughlin in January sent a
letter to U.S. customers informing them that Electrolux will
raise prices. The price increases aim to counter growing costs
for steel, resins and base metals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  