-- 
Emami Paper in Talks to Acquire Mills to Expand Capacity

-- B y   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e   a n d   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-04-27T12:08:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/emami-paper-in-talks-to-acquire-mills-to-expand-capacity-1-.html
Emami Paper Mills Ltd. (EPML) , a supplier
to  India ’s largest selling English newspaper, is in talks to buy
newsprint producers as part of its plan to almost triple
capacity in about three years as local supply lags demand.  The company may buy newsprint mills with a total capacity
of as much as 100,000 tons a year, Chief Executive Officer P.S.
Patwari said in a phone interview in Kolkata today. Emami Paper
will decide to set up this capacity on its own if the paper
maker gets environmental approval earlier, he said.  International Paper Co. (IP) , the world’s top paper producer,
last month agreed to pay more than twice the market price at the
time to buy  Andhra Pradesh Paper Mills (APPM)  Ltd. triggering a surge
in shares of Indian paper mills. Kolkata-based Emami is scouting
for acquisitions to tap demand in a market estimated at 3
million metric tons a year and growing at more than 10 percent,
according to International Paper.  “It is easier to acquire an existing plant and turn it
around within six months than setting up a new plant which may
take three to four years to build,” said Patwari. “For
newsprint, there is a ready demand as India imports 60 percent
of its requirement.”  Emami Paper fell 0.1 percent to 53.50 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close of trading in  Mumbai , extending the stock’s decline
this year to 13 percent.  Capacity Expansion  The paper maker will decide on the acquisitions in the next
six months to one year, Patwari said. The company, which
currently has a capacity to manufacture 150,000 tons of paper,
is separately awaiting environmental approvals to set up a plant
with annual capacity to produce 175,000 tons of wood-based
writing and printing paper, he said.  Emami Paper said in January it planned to raise 20 billion
rupees ($450 million) from internal accruals, borrowings and a
share sale to spend on expansion. Part of this money may be used
for any acquisitions, Patwari said.  The company is targeting sales to grow 11 percent to about
5 billion rupees in the financial year started April 1 as demand
for newsprint increases, Patwari said. Revenue may have
increased about 12 percent to 4.5 billion rupees in the year
ended March 31, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pradipta Mukherjee at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net ;
Subramaniam Sharma in  New Delhi  at
   ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 