-- 
Emerging Stocks Fall as China Moves to Curb Credit, Fed Plans Stimulus End

-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-27T21:48:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/emerging-stocks-advance-to-three-year-high-on-outlook-for-economic-growth.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
third day after Federal Reserve officials said its record
stimulus will end in June and as traders bet  China  will take
steps to curb credit growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 0.1 percent to
1,202.43, its lowest close in a week. China’s Shanghai Composite
Index and India’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index both
slipped 0.5 percent, while  Russia ’s Micex lost 1.2 percent.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa declined 1.3 percent.  China Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled developer,
sank 2.1 percent in  Hong Kong  after the China Securities Journal
said the government may raise down-payment requirements for
first-home purchases. Brazil’s Vale SA, the world’s biggest
iron-ore producer whose top export market is China, slid for the
first day in five.  “There are some fears in China about further tightening
which had taken what was a decent day in most emerging markets
to sort of flattish and in some cases down,” said Greg Lesko,
who helps manage about $800 million at Deltec Asset Management
in  New York . “There was no big change in policy after the Fed
conference, the concerns of inflation were not dissipated.”  The Chinese government may require down payments of 50
percent for first-home purchases if property prices continue to
rise, the China Securities Journal reported today, citing an
unidentified loan official at a domestic bank. The land ministry
also will issue policies to control the price of land, it said.
The banking regulator also may tighten regulation of loans trust
companies extend to developers, according to the report.  Chinese Developers  China Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co., China’s
largest developers, slid more than 1 percent.  The Micex declined for a third day after oil and copper
prices fell. Steelmakers including OAO Severstal retreated after
Bank of America downgraded the stocks to “neutral” from
“buy,” saying steel prices have probably peaked for the year.  The Sensex retreated for a third day as Wipro Ltd.,  India ’s
third-biggest software services provider, sank 2.9 percent.
Reliance Industries slid 1.5 percent after Goldman Sachs removed
the company from its Asia “conviction buy” list.  Federal Reserve policy makers said the economy is
recovering at a “moderate pace” and a pickup in inflation is
likely to be temporary, as they agreed to finish $600 billion of
bond purchases on schedule in June.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined 5 basis points to 2.68
percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index.  South Korea ’s won strengthened 0.6 percent against the
dollar and the Brazilian real fell 0.3 percent.  Korea, Taiwan  Samsung Electronics Co.,  Asia ’s biggest maker of chips,
flat screens and mobile phones, led the rally in technology
shares after a report yesterday showed U.S. consumer confidence
increased more than forecast in April. Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. climbed the most in three weeks as Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation.  “It’s positive in that we have more evidence to believe
the U.S. consumer demand will recover,” said Lim Chang Gue, a
 fund manager  in  Seoul  at Samsung Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $29 billion. “Still, we need more sustainable
signs.”  Taiwan Semiconductor climbed 2.8 percent. The chipmaker’s
stock rating was boosted to “buy” from “neutral” at Goldman
Sachs, which cited share valuations and the growth outlook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camila Russo in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  