-- 
Eni First-Quarter Profit Rises More-Than-Estimated 22% on Higher Oil Price

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-27T16:05:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/eni-says-first-quarter-profit-increased-on-higher-oil-prices.html
Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s largest energy
producer, said first-quarter profit rose 22 percent as higher
oil prices offset lost production caused by violence in Libya.  Adjusted net income climbed to 2.22 billion euros ($3.26
billion) from 1.82 billion euros a year earlier, the Rome-based
company said today in a statement. That surpassed the 2.09
billion-euro average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 12
analysts. Net sales rose 16 percent to 28.8 billion euros.  “Eni delivered a solid set of financial results on the
back of a favorable oil price environment,” Chief Executive
Officer  Paolo Scaroni  said in the statement. “In spite of
ongoing uncertainties regarding resumption of our activities in
Libya, the profitability and growth outlook for our company has
remained positive.”  Brent crude  averaged $105.52 a barrel during the quarter,
helping  oil companies  boost profits. Eni said today the shutdown
of its Libyan facilities caused an 8.6 percent decline in
production to an average of 1.68 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day in the quarter.  “The results are good, well above estimates, and that’s
both interesting and encouraging given the loss of production,”
said Gianmaria Bergantino, a  fund manager  at Bank Insinger de
Beaufort in  Rome .  Eni added 1.8 percent to 17.79 euros in Milan. The shares
are up 8.9 percent this year.  New Fields  Eni said since April the company has been producing 50,000
to 55,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in  Libya  for local
electricity production, all coming from its Wafa facility. The
loss in output is being partly compensated through ramped-up
production in Egypt, Iraq and Italy, the company said. Eni also
said it plans to start up new fields in Australia, Algeria and
the U.S.  Neither Eni facilities in Libya nor export terminals have
been damaged and are currently on “hot standby” ready to
produce again once the situation stabilizes, Head of Exploration
and Production Claudio Descalzi said during a conference call
with analysts. Libya has been convulsed by unrest from rebels
hoping to oust its long-time leader.  The gas and power division posted a 6 percent increase in
revenue helped by improved sales in  Italy , Turkey, France,
Spain, Portugal,  Germany  and Austria. Eni expects European gas
markets to remain weak in 2011 due to oversupply and low demand.  Eni said today it expects to receive binding offers for the
German TENP gas pipeline and Switzerland’s Transitgas pipeline
by the end of next week. The company expects to close the deals
in the second half of this year. Eni will transfer the stake in
the  Trans-Austria pipeline , or TAG, to Italian state lender
Cassa Depositi e Prestiti in the next few weeks.  Refining margins are also likely to remain unprofitable in
2011, according to the statement. Refining output will probably
decline this year particularly at the Venice refinery due to the
halt in supply from Libya, the company said.  Eni has temporarily suspended the sale of its stake in  Galp
Energia SGPS SA (GALP)  due to the political crisis in Portugal, Chief
Financial Officer Alessandro Bernini said on a conference call,
adding that he is confident a solution will be found “by the
end of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 