-- 
Merck Wins U.S. FDA Panel’s Backing for Hepatitis C Drug

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-27T21:37:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/merck-wins-u-s-fda-panel-s-unanimous-backing-for-hepatitis-c-treatment.html
Merck & Co. won a U.S. panel’s
backing to sell an experimental hepatitis C drug that cured more
patients in clinical trials than current therapies.  The drug, boceprevir, is effective and safe enough to
support approval, outside advisers to the  Food and Drug
Administration  said today in an 18-0 vote in  Silver Spring ,
 Maryland .  Merck, of  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , is racing  Vertex
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  to become the first company in almost a
decade to win FDA clearance of a drug for the bloodborne liver
disease. Merck and Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Vertex are
among a dozen companies seeking to sell hepatitis C drugs with
better results and fewer side effects than standard therapy.  “It changes the game completely and hopefully continues to
advance the field,” said Victoria Cargill, the panel’s acting
chairwoman and director of minority research at the National
Institutes of Health Office of AIDS Research in Bethesda,
Maryland.  Sales of boceprevir may surpass $604 million in 2013,
according to the average estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Merck, the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, gained 57 cents,
or 1.6 percent, to 35.63 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading. Vertex gained $2.62, or 5 percent, to $55.54
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  No Vaccine  About  170 million  people worldwide, and 3.2 million in the
U.S., have chronic hepatitis C, a disease that can lead to liver
cirrhosis and cancer, according to the  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention  in Atlanta. No vaccine exists for the
virus, which is commonly spread through needle-sharing and can
be transmitted sexually in rare cases.  The current standard therapy for the most common strain of
hepatitis C requires 48 weeks of treatment and cures less than
half of patients, Merck told the FDA in a  briefing document 
released by the agency on April 25.  That treatment combines the antiviral drug ribavirin with
peginterferon, an immune-boosting protein sold by Merck as
PegIntron and Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  as
Pegasys. The FDA approved PegIntron in 2001 and Pegasys in 2002.  Merck’s drug, and a competing treatment from Vertex called
telaprevir, work by blocking an enzyme used by the hepatitis C
virus to copy itself.  Both medicines are likely to win agency approval and may
reach the market in May or June, said  Geoffrey Porges , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  Potential Market  Combined worldwide revenue from both drugs may reach $6
billion to $7 billion within three years, Porges said last week
in an interview. While sales in  Europe  will probably be “an
even split,” telaprevir is poised to capture 70 percent to 80
percent of a U.S. market that may surpass $4 billion, he said.  Separate clinical trials on boceprevir and telaprevir
showed both drugs, so-called protease inhibitors, cured more
patients when used with approved treatments. There haven’t been
clinical studies that compare whether one drug is safer or more
effective than the other.  A Merck-funded study found that boceprevir, combined with
standard therapy, cured 63 percent of chronic hepatitis-C
patients who had failed previous treatments, compared with 23
percent of those who took peginterferon and ribavirin alone, FDA
staff said April 25 in a  preliminary review  of the drug.  Cure Rates  Among hepatitis C patients who were new to treatment, 65
percent of those who took boceprevir, and 38 percent on standard
therapy alone, were cured, according to the report.  Vertex’s drug cured 84 percent of patients in a company-
funded trial who had previously relapsed after standard therapy,
compared with 24 percent who only took peginterferon and
ribavirin, FDA staff reviewers said yesterday in a  report .
Another Vertex study found the drug cured 79 percent of patients
who were new to treatment, compared with 46 percent of those on
standard therapy alone, the agency said.  People who were previously treated for hepatitis C and
failed to respond weren’t included in Merck’s boceprevir trials.
Panelists said the FDA should require a caution in the drug’s
label that it hasn’t been studied in those so-called null
responders.  The agency also should require postmarketing studies of
those patients, as well as minority groups, people with HIV,
organ transplant recipients, and those taking other drugs such
as antidepressants, panel members said.  “This is just the beginning of a very long list of some
very important studies” that should be conducted if the drug is
approved, Cargill said.  Both drugs are also under review by the  European Medicines
Agency . Telaprevir would be marketed in Europe by Vertex and  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
second-biggest seller of health products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Silver Spring, Maryland at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  