-- 
Turkey Plans ‘Istanbul Canal’ for Russian Oil Shipments to Bypass Bosporus

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-04-27T13:43:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/erdogan-s-45-kilometer-istanbul-canal-will-keep-tankers-from-bosporus.html
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
said Turkey will build a canal from the  Black Sea  to the Marmara
Sea, turning the city of Istanbul into “two peninsulas and an
island” and diverting shipping traffic from the Bosporus.  The “Istanbul Canal,” which will be up to 50 kilometers
(30 miles) long, 150 meters wide and 25 meters deep, will carry
as many as 160 ships per day including the largest  oil tankers ,
Erdogan said in a speech in Istanbul today. Planning will take
two years, he said.  Erdogan declined to give a cost estimate or exact location
for the canal, saying they would be kept secret to “avoid any
kind of negativity or injustice” before the project begins. In
response to a reporter’s question, Istanbul Mayor Kadir Topbas
said the project would cost more than $10 billion and take eight
years to build.  Turkey  is seeking to keep shipping away from the Bosporus,
a winding waterway that runs through the middle of the city of
12 million people. The U.S. Energy Information Administration
calls the strait “one of the world’s busiest chokepoints” and
“most difficult waterways to navigate.”  Around 2.9 million barrels of oil a day were transported
through the Bosporus in 2009, down from 3.4 million in 2004,
according to the U.S. agency’s  list  of world oil transit
chokepoints. The decrease came as  Russia  shifted crude oil
exports from the Black Sea toward Baltic ports, it said.  Oil Tankers  The biggest ships to navigate the Bosporus strait today are
known as suezmaxes, so called because they are also the largest
to transit  Egypt ’s  Suez Canal  fully loaded. They can haul 1
million barrels of oil.  The Istanbul bypass would allow very large crude carriers,
or VLCCs, which can transport twice as much, to enter the Black
Sea, potentially curbing demand for the smaller vessels seeking
consignments of Russian oil.  “If this canal is built and if the infrastructure in the
Black Sea follows in terms of port expansion, bigger vessels
could absorb the volumes of smaller ships,” Luis Mateus, an
analyst at Riverlake Shipping SA in Geneva, said by e-mail
today. “The canal would also alleviate the congestion and have
faster transit times, but the industry needs to follow and adapt
itself to a change in transport dynamics.”  New bridges and highways will be built over the planned
Istanbul Canal, which will be flanked by hotels and new
apartment buildings, Erdogan said.  Erdogan said there would be no trouble funding the canal.  “Turkey deserves a crazy, magnificent project like this by
2023,” Erdogan said, referring to the 100th anniversary of the
declaration of the Turkish Republic.  A former mayor of Istanbul, Erdogan is seeking re-election
for a third term on June 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  