-- 
Erdogan’s Turkey Becomes Biggest Jailer With Opponents Alleging Power Grab

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-04-28T10:28:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/erdogan-s-turkey-becomes-biggest-jailer-with-opponents-alleging-power-grab.html
Turkey’s jailing of 17 journalists
since September is fuelling accusations that Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s changes to the legal system are designed
to eliminate opponents rather than harmonize laws with the
European Union.  Police arrested investigative reporter Ahmet Sik, whom
prosecutors alleged was involved in a coup conspiracy, in March.
There are 57  reporters in prison  in Turkey, according to the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, making the
country the world’s top jailer of journalists, data compiled by
the  International Press Institute  show.  Opposition charges that seizure of the judiciary is part of
a power-grab by Erdogan’s  Justice and Development Party , or AKP,
will define the run-up to the June 12 general election, said
 Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst at Eurasia Group in London. An
erosion of the judiciary’s independence may delay European Union
membership and undermine investor confidence in the rule of law,
he said. Erdogan says the courts are independent of politics.  “The changes that AKP has made to the judicial system,
I’ll say very clearly, are bringing us toward an autocratic,
totalitarian system,” said  Suheyl Batum , a constitutional
lawyer who’s deputy head of the main opposition  Republican
People’s Party . “We have a system not ruled by law, but by the
ruling party.”  Sik was imprisoned on March 6 and prosecutors ordered all
copies of his unpublished manuscript, one of several works
alleging  Turkey ’s police force is being taken over by the
Fethullah Gulen Islamic movement, confiscated or destroyed.  Unprecedented Decision  Marietje Schaake , a Dutch member of the European
Parliament’s foreign affairs committee, said the confiscation
was unprecedented.  “The government is saying the judiciary is responsible,
but ultimately a government does bear responsibility for
guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of its citizens,” Schaake
said in a telephone interview.  Asked about the arrests by legislators at the  European
Parliament  on April 13, Erdogan, 57, said they were actions by
an independent judiciary investigating coup conspiracies.  “Allegations in past weeks that there has been pressure,
restrictions and prohibitions against the press and freedom of
expression don’t reflect reality,” Erdogan said. “Some arrests
and detentions are being perceived as interference with freedom
of the press, but I want to remind you that in  Europe , there
aren’t newspapers and journalists who are encouraging coups.”  Erdogan says no one has been imprisoned for “journalism”
and that the changes, including a package of laws passed through
a September referendum, make Turkey more democratic and the
courts more independent.  Judicial Adjustments  The referendum’s changes to the high courts and judicial
selection board led to the replacement of secularist judges and
prosecutors with ruling party functionaries under the influence
of the Justice Ministry, said  Metin Feyzioglu , head of the
 Ankara Bar  Association.  The vote was rushed and the anti-democratic implications of
the changes weren’t fully understood, he said. The vote passed
58 percent to 42 percent. A pre-ballot survey found that almost
half of voters didn’t know the content of the amendments.  “The government is becoming more and more autocratic, less
and less tolerant, and these changes are doing it,” Feyzioglu
said in an interview at his seventh-floor office in Ankara.
“The general view is that the judiciary is acting as attack
dogs for the government.”  Alleged Coups  Prosecutors probing the alleged coup plots have  arrested 
almost 10 percent of Turkey’s generals and admirals over the
past two years, as well as dozens of prominent journalists and
university professors. The Ankara Bar Association on April 13
called for the special criminal courts to be abolished.  Turkey’s military, which has deposed four governments in
the past four decades, said it didn’t understand the legality of
the continued detention of 163 of its officers in a statement on
April 6.  Cuneyt Yuksel , a 41-year-old Harvard University-educated
lawyer who helps design AKP’s judicial policies, dismisses the
criticism, saying the party’s judicial reform is opposed by an
“old elite” of judges and officers who resent that power is
moving from their hands to the people’s.  “Ideologically, they block any reform and voters don’t
like that,” Yuksel said in an interview at the Turkish
parliament in Ankara.  Democracy ‘Stronger’  Many investors agree, saying the accusations by Erdogan’s
opponents aren’t realistic and haven’t proven true during his
eight years in power.  “I don’t believe in this ‘secret agenda,’” said Vassilis Karatzas, managing director of Levant Partners, a hedge fund in
 Athens  that has $125 million invested in Turkey and the Middle
East. “This is a government that has been able to provide a
voice for different parts of Turkish society, and Turkish
democracy is getting stronger by the day.”  Investors “don’t care until they get hit,” Piccoli, the
Eurasia analyst, said. “But sooner or later someone’s going to
get hit.” For corporate investors, “the question of rule of
law is a significant one and an area they should keep an eye
on,” he said.  The lack of foreigners from major privatization tenders in
Turkey may already indicate that “they see the picture becoming
a little more blurred about the rule of law,” he said.  Opposition parties are highlighting the issue in an effort
to cut into Erdogan’s popularity ahead of June’s vote.  Under the slogan, “Turkey will take a breath of fresh
air,” the main opposition  Republican People’s Party  is basing
its campaign partly on what it says is Erdogan’s politicization
of the judiciary and increasing centralization of powers.  Opposition Leader  “There’s a 21st century massacre of the law going on in
Turkey,” leader  Kemal Kilicdaroglu  said in an address to his
party on April 5.  To be sure, Batum says the party’s concerns often fall on
deaf ears, largely because voters have benefitted from nine
years of record economic growth.  “I go on TV to explain this stuff, but it’s too technical
and a little depressing,” Batum said in an interview at the
party headquarters in Ankara. “They say I’m boring and then
don’t invite me back.”  Since the AKP took office in 2002, the main ISE National-
100 share index has risen by a factor of eight in dollar terms,
almost double the gain of the MSCI Emerging Market Index. Gross
domestic product jumped 8.9 percent last year and GDP per person
has almost tripled to $10,043 in 2010, according to the
Treasury.  Interest rates  have fallen to an all-time low and
inflation slowed to a 40-year-low of 4 percent in March.  “Most investors draw a parallel between the ruling party
and a spectacular statistical series,” said Peter Bodis, a  fund
manager  at Pioneer Investments in Vienna, which has about $1
billion in emerging market equities. That’s drowned out
legitimate concerns that the party is “promoting Islam and not
respecting rights,” he said, which “has the potential to erupt
into something later that can disrupt the economy.”  Third Election  Erdogan has won two landslide election victories and has
about a 20 percentage-point lead in the polls as he campaigns
for a third term on June 12, according to surveys by Metropoll
and Andy-AR published April 25.  He is already Turkey’s third-longest-serving premier.
Another term may see Erdogan pass Ismet Inonu, a contemporary of
the republic’s founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk who enshrined
secularism in Turkey’s constitution, and Adnan Menderes, who was
hanged after a military coup in 1960 for violating it.  Erdogan’s climb to power was once blocked by the same
courts he’s now changing. Prosecutors banned Islamic political
parties he joined in the 1980s and 1990s, sentenced him to
prison after he read a poem in public they alleged incited
religious hatred in 1997 and almost succeeded in banning his
ruling  Justice and Development Party  in 2008 on charges it was
plotting to overthrow Turkey’s secular system.  New Constitution?  The 2008 court case sent the stock market down by as much
as 25 percent to a two-year low.  Erdogan has vowed to write a new constitution after the
June election and said in a Bloomberg interview in  London  on
March 31 that he may press ahead with changes and put the
government’s transformation to a presidential system from a
parliamentary system to a public referendum.  “There is a question mark about whether Erdogan’s going
too far,” Timothy Ash, head of emerging markets research at the
Royal Bank of  Scotland , said in a telephone interview from
London. “Political developments in Turkey still need to be
watched as they still represent ‘clear and present dangers’ to
the market’s cozy consensus view,” he said.  “Using the coup cases, the government is trying to erase
the opposition and wipe out dissidents,” Ertugrul Mavioglu, an
editor at  Radikal  newspaper and co-author of a book with Sik
about the coup investigations, said in Istanbul. “If Ahmet was
imprisoned, anyone can be imprisoned. The justification for
confiscating the book was so broad that it implicated the whole
world, seven billion people. We refuse to let this continue.”  Mavioglu is facing up to three years of jail time for his
book about the coup investigations, called “Between a Rock and
a Hard Place,” the state-run Anatolia news agency says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  