-- 
Ericsson Stock Jumps as Wireless Sales Propel Surge in Profit

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-04-27T11:19:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/ericsson-first-quarter-net-triples-beating-analyst-estimates.html
Ericsson AB, the world’s largest
maker of mobile-phone networks, rose the most in a year in
Stockholm trading after growth in wireless-broadband equipment
sales helped first-quarter profit more than triple.  Ericsson gained as much as 9.9 percent to 88.45 kronor, the
biggest intraday jump since April 23, 2010. The Stockholm-based
manufacturer said in a statement that net income surged to 4.1
billion kronor ($674 million) from 1.26 billion kronor a year
earlier. Profit beat the 3.06 billion-krona average of 19
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “They’re seeing very, very strong demand in networks and
it’s from the right regions, that is  North America ,  Japan ,
 Korea , which are very high-margin” markets, said Haakan Wranne,
a Stockholm-based analyst at Swedbank with a “buy”
recommendation on the stock. “People felt ahead of the report
that Ericsson would have a lot of less profitable sales from
India and modernization contracts in western  Europe  that would
kill margins in the quarter, and this didn’t happen.”  The manufacturer is profiting as third-generation wireless
systems that enable high-speed  Internet access  spread to
developing markets, paving the way for greater adoption of data-
hungry devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and tablet computers.
Mobile broadband drove growth in Russia and India, Ericsson
said. Network sales in North America, where Ericsson sells to
all the big U.S. carriers, gained 39 percent.  Ericsson was up 9.1 percent as of 1:15 p.m. The stock has
gained 12 percent this year, valuing the company at 286.3
billion kronor.  Sales Rise 17%  First-quarter sales rose 17 percent to 53 billion kronor,
beating the 49.1 billion-krona average estimate of 29 analysts.  Industrywide mobile-data traffic more than doubled last
year and will probably continue doubling every year in the near
term, Ericsson said. The company forecast that worldwide mobile-
broadband subscriptions will double to 1 billion this year.  India  approved 3G-technology licenses last year, opening
the way for companies including Aircel Ltd. and Vodafone Essar
Ltd. to order equipment from Ericsson. The Swedish company
appointed Fredrik Jejdling in early April to become head of the
India business in June.  The March 11 earthquake in Japan will probably cause delays
in delivering some products, Chief Executive Officer Hans Vestberg said. Ericsson is seeking alternative sources of
components and expects to catch up by the end of the third
quarter, he said.  Price Pressure  “If there’s something on the bleak side in the report, it
would be the Japan situation,” Swedbank’s Wranne said.
“Otherwise, the strong demand will continue, the next few
quarters at least.”  Ericsson also faces challenges as the wireless market
matures and carriers merge to cut costs. VimpelCom Ltd. agreed
this month to acquire Wind Telecom SpA,  forecasting  synergies of
$2.5 billion, and AT&T Inc. said March 20 that its planned
merger with  T-Mobile USA   could deliver  $40 billion in savings.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE)  agreed to set up
a purchasing venture that would let the two former phone
monopolies save a combined 1.3 billion euros annually by jointly
buying equipment. CEO Vestberg is counting on higher mobile-data
use and machine-to-machine communications to buffer slowing
growth in voice traffic.  Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s biggest phone-equipment
maker, said today it aims to more than triple annual sales to
about $100 billion in the next five to 10 years as it expands
into cloud computing and small-business networks.  Product Pricing  Consolidation in the industry, including Ericsson’s
acquisition of former Nortel Networks Corp. assets, hasn’t
stemmed a decline in equipment prices.  Nokia Siemens Networks reported a first-quarter operating
loss that narrowed to 142 million euros on sales that increased
17 percent to 3.17 billion euros. The Espoo, Finland-based
venture between Nokia Oyj and  Siemens AG (SIE)  aims to complete its
$975 million takeover of Motorola Solutions Inc. wireless assets
this week.  ST-Ericsson, the Swedish manufacturer’s chipmaking
partnership with STMicroelectronics NV, said yesterday that its
first-quarter net loss widened to $178 million from $154 million
a year earlier as sales fell 27 percent to $444 million.  Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB, the Swedish
company’s mobile-phone venture with Sony Corp., reported first-
quarter net income of 11 million euros, beating analysts’
projection for a loss, as its Android smartphone prices topped
estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  