-- 
Ericsson First-Quarter Net Triples, Beating Analyst Estimates

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-04-27T05:43:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/ericsson-profit-more-than-triples-beating-estimates-on-broadband-demand.html
Ericsson AB, the world’s largest
maker of mobile-phone networks, reported first-quarter profit
that more than tripled, beating analysts’ estimates, paced by
demand for wireless broadband equipment.  Net income reached 4.1 billion kronor ($675 million),
compared with 1.3 billion kronor a year earlier, Stockholm-based
Ericsson said today in a statement. Analysts predicted profit of
3.06 billion kronor, the average of 19 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Revenue climbed about 17 percent to 53 billion kronor,
topping the average estimate of 49.1 billion kronor by 29
analysts.  “The increase in group sales was driven by the networks
segment,” Chief Executive Officer Hans Vestberg said in the
statement. “The strong demand for mobile broadband resulted in
five out of 10 regions showing growth year over year.”  Ericsson is profiting as so-called 3G wireless systems
enabling mobile broadband spread through developing markets,
paving the way for greater adoption of data-hungry devices such
as smartphones and tablets. The company has said it expects
worldwide mobile broadband subscriptions to double to 1 billion
this year.  India approved 3G licenses last year, opening the way for
companies including Aircel Ltd. and Vodafone Essar Ltd. to order
equipment from Ericsson. The company appointed Fredrik Jejdling
as the new head of the India business from June.  Price Pressure  At the same time, Ericsson faces mounting challenges as the
wireless market matures and carriers merge to cut costs.
VimpelCom Ltd. agreed this month to acquire Wind Telecom SpA,
 forecasting  synergies of $2.5 billion, and AT&T Inc. said on
March 20 that its planned merger with  T-Mobile USA   could deliver 
$40 billion in savings.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE)  agreed to set up
a purchasing venture that would let the two former phone
monopolies save 1.3 billion euros million annually by jointly
buying equipment. CEO Vestberg is counting on higher mobile data
use and machine-to-machine communications to buffer slowing
growth in voice traffic.  Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s biggest phone-equipment
maker, said today it aims to more than triple annual sales to
about $100 billion in the next five to 10 years as it expands
into cloud computing and small-business networks.  Equipment prices have declined despite consolidation in the
industry, including Ericsson’s acquisition of former Nortel
Networks Corp. assets.  Nokia Siemens  Last week, Nokia Siemens Networks reported a first-quarter
operating loss that narrowed to 142 million euros on sales that
increased 17 percent to 3.17 billion euros. The Espoo, Finland-
based venture between Nokia Oyj and  Siemens AG (SIE)  aims to complete
its $975 million takeover of Motorola Solutions Inc. wireless
assets this week.  Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB, the mobile-phone
venture with Sony Corp., reported first-quarter net income of 11
million euros, beating analysts’ projection for a loss, as its
Android smartphone prices remained higher than expected.  ST-Ericsson, the company’s chipmaking joint venture with
STMicroelectronics, had a first-quarter net loss of $178
million, widening from $154 million a year earlier. Sales shrank
to $444 million from $606 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  