-- 
Barcelona Tops 10-Man Real Madrid 2-0 in Champions League Soccer Semifinal

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-27T23:17:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/messi-leads-barcelona-past-10-man-real-madrid-2-0-in-champions-league-semi.html
Lionel Messi  scored twice in the
final 14 minutes to lead Barcelona past 10-man Real  Madrid  2-0
in their Champions League soccer semifinal opener.  Messi lifted his season goal tally to 52 last night at the
Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid as the archrivals met for the third
time in 12 days. The scores came after Real Madrid defender Pepe
was sent off in the 61st minute with one of the three red and
five yellow cards handed out by referee Wolfgang Stark.  “They didn’t want to play football and I think we deserved
to win,” Barcelona defender  Gerard Pique  said in a televised
interview. “We are really happy for the win and have taken a
good step toward the final.”  Barcelona, which hosts the return match May 3, is aiming to
win  Europe ’s elite club competition for the fourth time and
third since 2006. The Catalan club joins Manchester United in
securing a 2-0 advantage on the road to open the two-game
series.  In addition to Pepe, Real will be without  Sergio Ramos  in
Barcelona next week after the right back got a yellow card early
in the second half. Real is seeking to reach its first final
since winning its record ninth title in 2002.  “We were already talking about a difficult game in
Barcelona, now it’s mission impossible,” Real manager  Jose Mourinho , who was also ejected, told reporters.  Mourinho’s team drew 1-1 with Barcelona in the Spanish
league on April 16 before winning 1-0 after extra time in the
Copa del Rey final four days later.  Early Chances  Barcelona’s David Villa shot wide with the first chance in
the 11th minute last night and Real goalkeeper Iker Casillas
saved from Xavi Hernandez, who also shot over the bar.  Tempers began to flare late in the first half as Real’s
Alvaro Arbeloa received a yellow card for blocking off  Pedro
Rodriguez  and Barcelona’s  Dani Alves  was booked for fouling
Angel di Maria.  Barcelona goalkeeper Victor Valdes knocked away  Cristiano Ronaldo ’s shot from 30 yards (27 meters) just before halftime.
The teams were then separated, with the help of local police, as
they left the field with Jose Pinto, Barcelona’s reserve
goalkeeper, being red carded for his part in the incident.  Messi had a chance in the opening minute of the second half
which Ramos blocked and Ronaldo chased down a long ball only to
have his shot intercepted by  Carles Puyol .  Ramos received his yellow card in the 53rd minute and
Barcelona’s  Javier Mascherano  was booked moments later. Pepe was
then ejected for his foot-first challenge on Alves, Real’s
fourth red card in four matches against Barcelona this season.  Mourinho Sees Red    Mourinho was sent to the stands in the aftermath after
talking at length with the fourth official on the sideline.
Ronaldo headed Xabi Alonso’s free kick over the crossbar once
play resumed and Casillas stopped Villa’s shot, with Pedro
heading the rebound wide.  Messi finally gave Barcelona the lead in the 76th minute
when he tapped in Ibrahim Afellay’s cross from the right. He
then clinched the win with three minutes left by picking the
ball up 40 yards from goal, slaloming past five defenders and
sliding a shot beyond Casillas.  It was Messi’s 11th goal in the Champions League this
season, putting him within one of Ruud van Nistelrooy’s record
haul of 12 goals for  Manchester United  in 2002-03.  United beat Schalke 2-0 two days ago and will host the
return match at Old Trafford on May 4. The final will be played
May 28 at Wembley Stadium in  London .  “It is very difficult to turn a 2-0 score around away from
home, but anything can happen in football,” Ronaldo told Real’s
website. “We will fight in Barcelona.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  