-- 
EU Auctions May Curb Seasonality in CO2 Prices, Orbeo Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-04-27T14:06:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/eu-auctions-may-curb-seasonality-in-carbon-prices-orbeo-says.html
Proposed European Union auctions of
carbon dioxide permits may curb the seasonality of price
movements in the emissions market, Orbeo said.  “We expect the seasonal element of carbon prices to reduce
as utilities are hedging more regularly along the year,” said
 Emmanuel Fages  and Carine Hemery, Paris-based analysts for
Orbeo, the carbon venture of  Rhodia SA (RHA)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA.  An oversupply of permits and the recession have already
muted the impact of utility hedging of forward-power sales, the
analysts said today in an e-mailed research note. Carbon prices
have risen more than 9 percent in the second quarter in four of
the past five years. Futures for December this year, the
benchmark, jumped 17 percent in 2010 and 9.9 percent in 2009.  Power utilities sell power at least five quarters ahead and
sometimes more than 15 quarters ahead, Orbeo said after
surveying available data from utilities on the subject.  E.ON AG (EOAN) 
and  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s two biggest generators, have sold at least
80 percent of their power by the time they reach the year of
delivery, the survey data showed.  Some utilities may start selling power in September using
up freely granted carbon permits for hedging before buying on
the emissions market to fill shortfalls, Fages said today by
phone. Prices may rise in the second quarter because that’s when
the utilities have run out of free allowances, he said. Prices
can fall in July and August as buyers take summer holidays, he
said. Carbon has fallen in the third quarter in five out of the
past six years.  ‘Less Brutal’  Orbeo found evidence of seasonality linked to this hedging
strategy in 2006, 2007 and 2008, Fages said. In 2009 and 2010,
there is some evidence that utilities are starting to buy carbon
allowances more consistently throughout the year, rather than in
seasons, he said.  In 2013 most EU power utilities will need to buy all of
their allowances in auctions rather than receiving most of them
for free, as the European Commission seeks to boost the
incentive for greenhouse gas cuts. The Brussels-based commission
is regulator of the program, the world’s biggest carbon market.  “The more regular ongoing hedging strategy will lead to a
much smoother demand pattern,” the Orbeo analysts said in the
report. “Demand will emerge less brutally and be less
concentrated in time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  