-- 
Europe’s Anti-Communist Fighters See Battle in Middle East

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-04-28T12:51:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/europe-s-anti-communist-fighters-see-long-battle-in-middle-east.html
Lech Walesa travels to Tunisia today
to advise the country’s new leaders on building a democracy
after they ousted dictator Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. Based on
Walesa’s experience, the transition may be a long one.  Walesa led a strike at the Gdansk shipyard in 1980 that
sparked a wave of protests, forcing  Poland ’s communist rulers to
negotiate with workers and fueling a period of relative freedom.
A year later, General Wojciech Jaruzelski imposed martial law,
threw Solidarity leaders into jail and outlawed the movement.  It wasn’t until 1989 that communism finally collapsed.  “A revolution may only take one day, but that doesn’t mean
all the problems have been solved,” Walesa, 67, said in an
interview. “A positive conclusion to these events is possible,
anything’s possible. But it’s not even close to inevitable.”  While uprisings toppled Ben Ali and Egyptian President
 Hosni Mubarak , authoritarian leaders are clinging to power in
 Libya , Syria and Yemen. Prolonged unrest in the region, which
accounts for 40 percent of the world’s oil reserves, may lead to
higher, more volatile energy prices, slowing global economic
growth, according to Uri Dadush and Marwan Muasher, analysts at
the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in  Washington .  Oil has risen 23 percent this year in  New York , trading
today at $112.76 a barrel. Libya’s oil production has dropped by
76 percent, or 1.2 million barrels a day, this year. The Gulf
Cooperation Council is trying to broker the departure of Yemeni
President Ali Abdullah Saleh to prevent al-Qaeda from increasing
its influence and using the country as a base to target  Saudi
Arabia , the world’s biggest oil exporter.  ‘Potential Elite’  The Middle East’s pro-democracy movements must overcome
challenges that countries such as Poland and Hungary didn’t face
two decades ago, including the lack of an educated elite and
extreme poverty fueled by rising food prices.  “You have to look at whether there’s a potential elite and
who would form it,” said Wiktor Osiatynski, a law professor at
Central European University in Budapest who helped write
Poland’s post-1989 constitution. “They existed in Poland and
 Hungary , and there weren’t really any in Ukraine, Romania or
 Bulgaria . And you can still see that now.”  Ukraine, which has a population almost five times that of
 Portugal  and an economy half the size, elected Viktor Yushchenko
to replace former Soviet strongman Leonid Kuchma after the so-
called Orange Revolution in 2004.  Corruption Allegations  Since then, Ukrainian politics have been marked by brawls
in parliament and allegations of corruption.  Transparency
International  ranked Ukraine 134th in its corruption index last
year, tied with countries such as Zimbabwe and Sierra Leone.  “Elections alone cannot solve the fundamental political
problems confronting  Egypt  and Tunisia,” said former Prime
Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko , a leader of the Orange Revolution who
is under investigation by Ukraine’s Prosecutor General for
misusing funds and abuse of power. “In particular, they cannot
create a liberal order and open society.”  Central  Europe  didn’t face the extreme poverty and rising
youth unemployment that is fueling unrest in some Middle Eastern
countries, said Boguslaw R. Zagorski, a lecturer in Arab and
Islamic Studies at Collegium Civitas in Warsaw who was a member
of underground organizations in the 1980s.  Unemployment among those aged 15 to 24 in the oil importing
countries of the Middle East and North Africa exceeds 25
percent, the highest for any region worldwide, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  Rising Poverty  Yemen has the region’s highest levels of poverty, with 34.8
percent of the population living below the poverty line,
followed by Egypt at 22.8 percent,  World Bank  data show.  Rising food prices are contributing to the pressures, with
44 million people worldwide falling into poverty since June,
according to the World Bank. Global food costs rose to an all-
time high in February, according to the United Nations Food &
Agriculture Organization.  “Food will be one of the most pressing challenges for
North Africa,” Zagorski said. “Political stabilization, but
also simply ensuring that there’s enough food to go around.”  Egypt’s benchmark stock index, the EGX30, has fallen 30
percent this year, the steepest decline among 90 primary indexes
tracked by Bloomberg.  Tunisia ’s Tunindex is down 17 percent, the
third-biggest drop.  The yield on Egypt’s benchmark dollar bond due in 2020 rose
to a record high 7.21 percent on Jan. 31 as the protests against
Mubarak intensified. The bond traded at 6.34 percent yesterday,
compared with 4.49 percent on Aug. 23. Tunisia’s dollar bond due
2012 rose to 5.09 percent on Jan. 17, two days after Ben Ali
resigned, and traded at 2.90 percent yesterday.  Geopolitical Dimension  There is also a geopolitical difference between Eastern
Europe in 1989 and the Middle East today, according to  George Soros , the Hungarian-born billionaire who set up the Open
Society Institute in 1993 to help formerly communist countries
make the transition to democracy.  While the U.S. and Western Europe shared a common enemy
with anti-communist movements, they supported the Middle East’s
authoritarian rulers, Soros said.  “These revolutions were directed against some of our
allies,” Soros said. “It is all the more important that we
regain the confidence of the people by supporting their
legitimate aspirations. If we do so, we will end up with more
dependable and desirable alliances.”  As demonstrators in Yemen and  Syria  die in clashes with
police and Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  shells rebel forces,
the question may be how long people are prepared to wait for
democracy, said Polish central bank Governor Marek Belka, who
was director of economic policy for the Coalition Provisional
Authority in  Iraq  from 2003-2004.  “Sometimes it takes a generation, and people are not that
patient anymore,” Belka said. “So then they could turn their
back on democracy or democratically elected bodies and look for
some other options. This is the problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  