-- 
Europeans Increase Pressure on Syria as UN Action Blocked by China, Russia

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-04-28T10:39:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/europeans-increase-pressure-on-syria-as-un-action-is-blocked.html
European nations stepped up
pressure on Syria, summoning the country’s ambassadors and
pushing for a United Nations vote to protest the increasingly
violent suppression of anti-government demonstrations.  In coordinated moves,  France , Britain, Germany,  Italy  and
 Spain  called yesterday on the Syrian envoys in their capitals to
condemn the crackdown that has led to hundreds of deaths. U.K.
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  also withdrew the Syrian
ambassador’s invitation to tomorrow’s wedding of  Prince William 
in  London .  In  New York ,  China  and  Russia  yesterday led opposition that
blocked an initiative by the U.S. and its European allies for
the UN Security Council to condemn the Syrian government’s
attacks on peaceful protesters.  The situation “does not present a threat to international
peace and security,” Russian Deputy Ambassador Alexander Pankin
said, referring to the standard for Security Council
involvement.  The latest Syrian crackdown on unrest in the past week,
mostly in the southern region of Daraa, has brought the
nationwide death toll since mid-March to more than 450, Ammar Qurabi, head of  Syria ’s  National Organization for Human Rights ,
said by phone yesterday. The protests are part of a wave of
popular movements that have unseated rulers in Egypt and
 Tunisia , sparked violent reactions in Libya and Bahrain and
helped push  oil prices  up more than 20 percent this year.  ‘Legitimate Aspirations’  Britain told Syrian Ambassador Sami Khiyami of its
“condemnation of the unacceptable use of force against
protesters,” the Foreign Office said in a statement yesterday.
France said it told Ambassador Lamia Chakkour that “the Syrian
authorities must respond to their people’s legitimate
aspirations by reforms, not force.”  Khiyami’s invitation to attend the wedding of Prince
William and  Kate Middleton  has been withdrawn, the Foreign
Office announced today. Invitations to such events are routinely
issued to the envoys of all countries with which Britain has
normal diplomatic relations.  “In the light of this week’s attacks against civilians by
the Syrian security forces, which we have condemned, the foreign
secretary has decided that the presence of the Syrian ambassador
at the royal wedding would be unacceptable and that he should
not attend,” the Foreign Office said in an e-mailed statement.
“ Buckingham Palace  shares the view of the Foreign Office that
it is not considered appropriate for the Syrian ambassador to
attend the wedding.”  ‘At a Crossroads’  Syria is “at a crossroads” and can still reform
peacefully if the government stops using violence, U.K. Defense
Secretary  Liam Fox  said in Parliament yesterday. “We must
redouble international pressure in every way we can to say there
is an alternative road.”  European Union members  will meet tomorrow at ambassador
level in Brussels to discuss Syria.  Germany  favors sanctions on
Syria’s leadership, including travel restrictions and financial
freezes, the German government’s spokesman, Steffen Seibert,
told reporters in Berlin yesterday.  Syrian authorities have detained activist Rassem al-Atassi
in Homs, saying the former head of the  Arab Organization for
Human Rights  armed two men with guns and gave them money, the
group’s current chief, Mahmoud Merhi, said today.  ‘Pure Fabrication’  “This is pure fabrication,” Merhi said, adding that
rallies will take place tomorrow as they have every Friday since
mid-March, when the unrest began. “Not demonstrating will be an
end to the process of change in Syria. The residents of Daraa
will hold protests even if the military uses live ammunition.”  More than 200 members of the ruling Baath party across
Syria quit late yesterday to protest the practices of security
forces in the country,  Agence France-Presse  and Al-Arabiya
television reported. Qurabi said the resignations were unlikely
to sway the government and that the army remains loyal. The
Baath party has as many as 2.5 million members, according to
Merhi.  President Bashar al-Assad’s government sent tanks and
armored personnel carriers to storm Daraa on April 25. Activists
and witnesses say at least 25 people were killed as security
forces fired on protesters. Troops strafed the streets with
machine guns and water, electricity and phone lines were cut.  Tanks Deployed  The government said its soldiers moved into the city in
response to an appeal by residents to prevent violence by
“radical terrorists.” Assad has said foreign-led conspirators
are seeking to exploit legitimate expressions of popular
demands. Protest organizers say the demonstrators were unarmed.  About 30 tanks are on the way to the coastal city of
 Banias , where protests have occurred this week, Qurabi said. The
army has surrounded the city in the past few days and there is
“fear of an attack,” he said, adding that some tanks are also
positioned on the outskirts of the capital, Damascus.  There were no reports of further fighting yesterday in
Daraa, the site of violent clashes the day before, Qurabi said.
About 40 army tanks are positioned in the city, he said.  More than 1,000 people have been arrested across the
country since the most recent demonstrations began on April 22,
bringing the total number of detentions since the unrest started
to at least 2,000, according to Merhi.  Diplomatic Observers  Syria is preventing diplomatic observers from assessing the
situation, including through measures such as the detention of
accredited diplomatic personnel, the U.S. Embassy in Damascus
said in an e-mail yesterday. One person working for the embassy
was briefly held, it said.  The U.S. is considering “targeted sanctions,” said Jake Sullivan, director of policy planning at the State Department,
which has ordered all embassy family members and non-emergency
personnel to depart Syria and advised U.S. citizens to leave.  At the UN, U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice said the Obama
administration “condemns in the strongest possible terms the
abhorrent violence used by the government of Syria.”  “My government calls on President Assad to change course
now and heed the calls of his own people,” she said. “We also
call upon the international community to respond to this brutal
crackdown, and to hold accountable those who are perpetrating
these gross human rights violations.”  Syrian Ambassador Bashar Ja’Afari said his government’s
security forces have used the “utmost restraint” against
“criminal elements” armed and financed by unnamed foreign
governments.  The speeches at the UN Security Council followed a briefing
to the council by Under-Secretary-General Lynn Pascoe, who said
the “overwhelming majority” of the rallies have been peaceful
and that, contrary to the Syrian government’s assertion, there
have been “very few” instances of protesters using arms
against security forces.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  