-- 
Ex-Glaxo Lawyer `Went Too Far,’ U.S Says at Opening of Obstruction Trial

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-27T17:47:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/ex-glaxo-lawyer-went-too-far-u-s-says-at-opening-of-obstruction-trial.html
An ex- GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  attorney
accused of covering up the company’s improper marketing of its
antidepressant drug Wellbutrin SR is a “lawyer who went too
far,” a federal prosecutor said as her trial began.  Lauren Stevens, former vice president and associate general
counsel for London-based Glaxo, is charged with impeding an
inquiry in 2002 and 2003 by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration into the marketing of the drug for uses not
approved by the FDA.  “This is a case about a lawyer who put loyalty to her
company above fidelity to the truth and to the law,” said
Patrick Jasperse, a Justice Department lawyer, during opening
statements today in Greenbelt, Maryland, federal court. “This
is a case about a lawyer who went too far, from aggressively
representing her company to breaking the law.”  Stevens, 61, of Durham,  North Carolina , is charged with one
count of obstructing an official proceeding, one count of
falsifying and concealing documents and four counts of making
false statements. The first two charges are punishable by a
maximum of 20 years in prison while the others carry terms of as
long as five years.  Stevens’s attorney,  Reid Weingarten , told the jury that she
never intended to mislead the FDA and that she relied on the
advice of in-house lawyers at Glaxo as well as its outside law
firm King & Spalding in crafting her company’s responses to the
agency.  Good-Faith Effort  “Everything she did in this case was utterly inconsistent
with an intent to deceive the government,” Weingarten said.
Stevens made a good-faith effort to respond to the government
while properly protecting her client, he said.  Glaxo hasn’t been charged with crimes related to the
Wellbutrin investigation, prosecutors said.  The FDA contacted Glaxo in October 2002, seeking
information after receiving allegations that the company had
promoted Wellbutrin for unapproved uses, specifically  weight
loss , according to the indictment.  Stevens told the FDA she would collect materials about
Glaxo’s promotion of the drug, which was approved only for a
single use, “the treatment of a major depressive disorder in
patients age 18 or older,” according to the indictment.  Stevens sent three false letters between February 2003 and
May 2003 to the FDA, failing to disclose that Glaxo had directly
encouraged the use of Wellbutrin for weight loss, that it gave
gifts to doctors to attend promotional talks, and that it held
“special issue boards” to discuss unapproved uses, the
indictment said.  Vermont Doctor  Stevens withheld that the company paid a Vermont physician
to speak at 511 promotional events in 2001 and 2002 to discuss
off-label uses and also paid a Michigan doctor to give 488
talks, prosecutors said. Jasperse told the jury Glaxo paid the
two doctors more than $1 million each for the talks.  In March 2003, Stevens got a memo from lawyers at King &
Spalding that discussed the pros and cons of handing over the
promotional materials gathered. One benefit of disclosure, it
said, was that it “potentially garners credibility with FDA,”
the indictment said.  The negatives, it said, were that it potentially
demonstrated “lack of control” over sales representatives and
physician speakers and could provide incriminating evidence
against the company “in this or a future investigation.”  ‘Isolated Deficiencies’  Stevens didn’t turn over the materials and said the company
only promoted the drug for approved uses, according to the
indictment.  When Stevens learned that a Glaxo sales representative told
the FDA about off-label promotions and sent a copy of slides
used by the Vermont doctor and a California physician touting
unapproved uses, Stevens wrote a letter to the agency saying
that while there may be “isolated deficiencies,” the evidence
“clearly demonstrates” Glaxo didn’t engage in off-label
promotions.  “Lauren believed this to be true when she sent the letter
and believes it to be true today,” Weingarten said. “There was
no official corporate policy to promote this drug for obesity.”  Stevens was charged in November. U.S. District Judge Roger Titus dismissed the indictment last month after finding
prosecutors misinformed the grand jury about a key element of
Stevens’s defense.  Prosecutors secured a new indictment against Stevens on
April 13.  The case is U.S. v. Stevens, 10-cr-694, U.S. District
Court, District of  Maryland  (Greenbelt).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  