-- 
Ex-Primary Global Consultant Chu to Waive Indictment in Fund Insider Case

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-27T18:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/ex-primary-global-consultant-chu-to-waive-indictment-in-fund-insider-case.html
 Don Ching Trang Chu, an expert
consultant to hedge funds who is accused of passing inside
information, had “extensive” plea talks with U.S. prosecutors,
a prosecutor told a federal judge today in  Manhattan .  Chu, 57, who worked for Primary Global Research LLC,
appeared in court today before U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff,
in Manhattan and entered a not guilty plea to a new criminal
information unsealed today. That charging document accuses Chu
of two crimes, conspiracy to commit securities fraud and
conspiracy to commit wire fraud conspiracy.  Federal defendants traditionally waive their right to be
indicted by a grand jury and agree to be charged in a criminal
information as a prelude to entering into an agreement with
prosecutors and pleading guilty.  “This case comes after some extensive plea negotiations
and they are still ongoing,” Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney
David Leibowitz told Rakoff at today’s hearing.  Chu, who worked as the  Taiwan  liaison for the expert-
networking firm based in  Mountain View ,  California , was arrested
in November, charged with passing tips to Richard Choo-Beng Lee,
a former partner at  San Jose , California-based Spherix Capital
LLC beginning in late 2008, according to a criminal complaint
filed by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan.  ‘99.9 Percent’  Rakoff noted today that Chu’s case was added today to a
pending criminal case involving James Fleishman, a former sales
manager with Primary Global. He asked lawyers in the case if
they wanted Chu’s case put on the same trial schedule as
Fleishman’s case.  Fleishman, who was indicted in February on conspiracy to
commit securities fraud and conspiracy to commit  wire fraud , has
pleaded not guilty and is awaiting trial.  Chu’s lawyer, James DeVita today consented to the cases
being joined and told Rakoff he needed to review evidence before
agreeing that his client should be tried with Fleishman.  “I do not believe there is a significant overlap of facts
as relates to Mr. Chu and as they relate to Mr. Fleishman, even
though there were employees of the same firm” DeVita said.  Rakoff responded he would wait to see if Chu would plead
guilty saying, “The fact is, that in 99.9 percent of these
cases where a criminal information is filed, there is usually a
guilty plea.”  $1 Million Bond  DeVita said after court that his client, who is free on $1
million bond, had consented to proceed with a criminal
information instead of waiting for a federal grand jury to
indict him.  “I look at this as what we gain by having him not charged
by a federal grand jury,” he said, adding that he would now
have access to the evidence which the government has against
Chu.  Asked after court if his client was considering pleading
guilty, DeVita said, “We’ve had discussions.”  Chu’s biography on the Primary Global website identifies
him as “ Asia  Expert and Data Sources.”  Chu is connected to a series of criminal cases brought by
Bharara’s office tied to a nationwide probe of  insider trading 
at hedge funds and the expert networkers who provide them with
inside information. Chu, was charged with arranging for insiders
at publicly traded companies to improperly provide information
to clients of his firm.  ‘Interests of Justice’  His case has been adjourned several times since his Nov. 24
arrest “in the interests of justice,” court records show.  Chu, a onetime employee at AT&T’s Bell Laboratories, worked
for Taiwanese firms including  CyberTan Technology Inc. (3062)  and  Z-Com
Inc. (8176)  before joining Primary Global. The expert networking firm
connects investors with industry experts who provide insight
into a specific market.  One client was Spherix Capital LLC, a hedge fund where Lee
used secret tips to trade stocks, according to Lee’s guilty plea
last year.  Lee has pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the
government’s investigation of hedge funds, including Galleon
Group LLC, prosecutors said. Before Spherix, Lee was employed as
an analyst by SAC Capital Advisors LP, the hedge fund firm run
by  Steven A. Cohen , from 1999 to 2004.  Rakoff set a June 28 conference in the case.  Inside Information  Leibowitz also said today that the government was in the
process of “spinning” or copying hard drives from Primary
Global and other locations which the U.S. had collected as part
of their probe on a wiretap at the expert networking firm.  “I want to confirm that there are recordings of Mr. Chu,
many wiretap intercepts in the case,” Leibowitz said. “I can
tell your honor that there was a PGR conference wire,” he said.
“I want to say there are other older wires, which I can’t say
for certain he may have been intercepted on an older wire.”  Lee’s hedge fund allegedly paid Chu’s firm for the inside
information, prosecutors said. Employees of  Atheros
Communications Inc. (ATHR) ,  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  and  Sierra Wireless Inc. (SW) 
passed earnings estimates and other data to Primary Global’s
clients, according to the criminal complaint.  Primary Global connects investors with employees of public
companies who purportedly provide them with insight into
specific markets. Prosecutors have alleged that the company
insiders were paid to provide material nonpublic information to
the investors.  Primary Global Tips  Fleishman is accused of helping investors obtain inside
information from consultants working for the expert-networking
firm. He also faces related civil claims by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, has been free on bail since his
December arrest. The SEC said tips from Primary Global insiders
helped investors reap $5.9 million in illegal profits.  Other Primary Global employees or consultants facing
criminal charges include Daniel Devore, Mark Longoria, Walter Shimoon, Manosha Karunatilaka and Winifred Jiau. Primary Global
said in a statement issued at the time of Chu’s arrest that he
was born in Taiwan and became a naturalized U.S. citizen in
1987. The firm said Chu worked for the firm for about seven
years.  Chu was originally charged in November on a criminal
complaint that accused him of one count of conspiracy to commit
 securities fraud  and one count of conspiracy to commit wire
fraud. He faces as much as 25 years in prison if convicted of
wire fraud conspiracy.  He was the first in a new wave of federal arrests tied to
the Galleon Group case, the largest insider trading probe
involving hedge funds. Two overlapping insider trading cases
involving Galleon Group founder Raj Rajaratnam have led to
accusations against more than 20 people.  Government Evidence  To date, 21 people have pleaded guilty in the case, with
most agreeing to cooperate with prosecutors and testify against
others. A federal jury in  New York  has been deliberating the
Rajaratnam case since April 25.  Malaysian-born Lee, who was a colleague of Rajaratnam for
20 years at Needham & Co. and one of the original defendants in
the Galleon case, pleaded guilty last year to receiving inside
information “from one of my sources in Asia.”  The scheme Chu was allegedly involved in ran from January
to August 2009, prosecutors said. Evidence against him described
in the complaint was gathered from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, bank records, unnamed cooperating witnesses
and “court-authorized wiretaps on a telephone subscribed to an
unnamed hedge fund.” The U.S. said the FBI intercepted calls
made between Oct. 15, 2008, and Feb. 4, 2009.  Offices Searched  As part of the U.S. investigation into insider trading at
hedge funds, agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s
New York office on Nov. 22 searched the offices of Level Global
Investors LP and Diamondback Capital Management LLC. Both firms
were founded by former employees of  Stamford , Connecticut-based
SAC Capital Advisors. A third hedge fund, Boston-based Loch
Capital Management, was also searched by agents that day,
according to a person familiar with that matter.  Cohen’s SAC was subpoenaed by the U.S. seeking documents a
day later. No allegation of wrongdoing has been made against
SAC, which manages $12 billion.  Bob Nguyen, another Primary Global employee, pleaded guilty
in January in federal court in New York to conspiracy and fraud
and admitted he was part of a scheme to provide hedge fund
clients with material, nonpublic information.  The case is U.S. v. Chu, 11-CR 032, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  