-- 
SAC Capital Ex-Manager Will Plead Guilty Today in Insider Probe, U.S. Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-28T04:31:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/ex-sac-capital-s-longueuil-to-plead-guilty-tomorrow-u-s-prosecutor-says.html
Former SAC Capital Advisors LP
manager Donald Longueuil, joining other defendants who have
admitted wrongdoing in a nationwide insider-trading probe, will
plead guilty to federal charges, a U.S. prosecutor said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney David Leibowitz told U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  that Longueuil would enter a
guilty plea today. The statement came during a hearing yesterday
on whether to separate Longueuil’s case from co-defendant
Winifred Jiau, a former hedge fund consultant for Primary Global
Research LLC.  Longueuil, a former junior portfolio manager at SAC, and
Jiau were accused of conspiring to commit securities and wire
fraud from 2006 to 2010. They pleaded not guilty, rejecting U.S.
allegations that nonpublic information Longueuil allegedly
received was from an insider at Marvell Technology Group Ltd. or
Nvidia Corp., or that Jiau received inside information.  The prosecutor’s statement came a few hours after he told
Rakoff that Don Ching Trang Chu, a colleague of Jiau’s at
Primary Global, was also in plea talks with the government. In
the past week, ex-Galleon Group LLC trader Craig Drimal and
lawyer Jason Goldfarb also have pleaded guilty to insider-
trading charges as part of the related investigation.  The defendants are among about three dozen people charged
in what prosecutors said was a series of insider-trading rings
tied to Galleon and the indictment of the hedge fund’s co-
founder, Raj Rajaratnam. Longueuil, Jiau and Chu were part of
the third ring, the government said, involving the use of so-
called expert networking firms that employed technology company
insiders to provide nonpublic information to hedge fund clients.  Raj Rajaratnam  Rajaratnam, 53, gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about stocks including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp . and Clearwire Corp., the
U.S. alleged. Rajaratnam, who said he based the trades on
research, faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of
the most serious counts. The jury in his case completed its
third day of deliberations yesterday.  At yesterday’s hearing in the Jiau case, Rakoff asked
prosecutors if “Longueuil is pleading guilty tomorrow?”  “Your honor is correct, he is changing his plea,”
Leibowitz said.  Craig Carpenito, a lawyer for Longueuil, didn’t return a
voice-mail message left at his office yesterday.  Passing Information  Jiau is accused of passing inside information to an
unidentified hedge-fund portfolio manager and to Noah Freeman,
who was an SAC Capital portfolio manager based in  Boston .  Joanna Hendon, a lawyer for Jiau, declined to comment.  Longueuil, who worked in SAC Capital’s CR Intrinsic unit in
New York from July 2008 to July 2010, gave information to
Freeman, who, in exchange, passed material non-public
information to Longueuil that he had obtained from sources
including Jiau, according to prosecutors.  “Longueuil communicated regularly with Freeman” and the
unidentified co-conspirator “to share the material nonpublic
information each learned from his respective sources,”
according to the indictment. “These communications occurred
over the telephone, as well as through e-mails and instant
message communications.”  Prosecutors alleged that in addition to Freeman, Longueuil
got inside information from unidentified public company
employees and “independent research consultants.”  Twenty Years  Longueuil would face as long as 20 years in prison if
convicted of the most serious charge against him.  Charges against Longueuil were initially filed by Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in February when the office also
announced insider-trading cases against Freeman, Samir Barai,
the founder of Barai Capital Management, and Jason Pflaum, who
worked for Barai. Pflaum pleaded guilty in December as part of a
cooperation deal. Freeman pleaded guilty Feb. 7.  The charges are connected to earlier arrests of eight
employees or consultants at Primary Global Research, a  Mountain
View , California-based expert-networking firm that links
investors with industry experts who work for public companies.  Prosecutors said that after Longueuil read a news report on
Nov. 19 about the government’s insider-trading probe, he went to
his office at about 2 a.m. and took pliers to two external
drives on his computer, destroying them. He then walked for 20
blocks, dumping the parts in four separate garbage trucks,
prosecutors said.  “Chopped it up, chopped up everything,” Longueuil wrote
in a text to Freeman, according to the criminal complaint.  SAC Capital, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , has said it
cooperated with the U.S. investigation.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  