-- 
Facebook Backer Accel Targets Mobile After Social-Media Spree

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-04-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/facebook-backer-accel-targets-mobile-after-beating-rivals-to-social-media.html
More than a decade after missing
out on the most valuable Web companies of the 1990s, venture-
capital firm  Accel Partners  is emerging as the leader in the new
rapid-growth area of investing: social media.  Early bets on  Facebook  Inc. and Groupon Inc., the tech
world’s most valuable privately held companies, have propelled
Accel past Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and  Sequoia Capital ,
once the dominant venture investors in dot-coms. The challenge
now is staying on top as valuations swell and competition mounts
in the hunt for the next billion-dollar payday.  “We’re all conscious and paranoid of the fact that you’re
only as good as your last set of deals,” Richard Wong, a
partner at Accel, said from the firm’s  Palo Alto , California,
headquarters. “There’s a continued hunger to make sure we
sustain what’s been a nice patch of progress.”  That means sticking to the firm’s motto, “chance favors the
prepared mind,” taken from 19th century French chemist Louis Pasteur, Wong says.  While social networking remains a focus, Accel is also
targeting entrepreneurs in the mobile and cloud-computing
markets, and is looking for startups worldwide through its funds
in the U.K.,  China  and  India .  The firm is using existing investments to find future
growth areas. Accel bought a stake last year in  BranchOut Inc. ,
the largest business-networking service on Facebook. In 2009, it
led the first investment in Cloudera Inc., a Web data analytics
company co-founded by Facebook’s former head of data, Jeff
Hammerbacher. Social-gaming company Tiny Speck, started by
Flickr co-founder Stewart Butterfield, has raised three rounds
of funding since 2009, with Accel participating in each.  Daily-Deal Competition  As valuations surge, investments by Accel and other backers
may become riskier. Facebook and Groupon have yet to prove
they’re worth the combined $75 billion cited on private
exchanges. Groupon faces fierce rivalry from LivingSocial and
dozens of daily-coupon copycats. Facebook is fending off a
threat from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and has yet to prove it can profit from
the rising popularity of smartphones.  Like other top venture firms, Accel makes money by charging
about a 2.5 percent management fee and taking 30 percent of
investment gains if there’s a takeover or an initial public
offering. Venture investors also sometimes find buyers for
partial stakes in companies. Accel sold roughly 15 percent of
its Facebook stake last year, earning about $500 million.  AdMob, Playfish  The 28-year-old firm manages about $6 billion globally and
is raising an additional $2 billion this year in funds for the
U.S. and China. While it doesn’t disclose returns, transactions
in the past two years indicate that it’s faring better than
dozens of peers.  The firm made hundreds of millions of dollars from the
acquisitions of portfolio companies AdMob Inc., Playfish Inc.
and Quidsi Inc. It may reap more from expected IPOs of companies
such as Kayak Software Corp. and Glam Media Inc.  “Based on taking a few great deals, somebody defines an
era in Internet investing,” said Rob Solomon, who has led
companies backed by Accel and is currently president of Chicago-
based Groupon. “In this phase right now, Accel is that firm.”  The risk of a frothy market is not lost on Accel. Arthur Patterson, who co-founded the firm with Jim Swartz in 1983, says
 venture capital  goes through 14-year cycles, which include a
one- to two-year bubble, followed by a five-year retreat.
Valuations then stabilize before resurging to form new bubbles.  Early Investments  “We could probably get ourselves into more trouble in this
part of the cycle than we could making $2 million to $3 million
bets in the early part,” said Accel partner Kevin Efrusy, who
co-led the investments in Facebook and  Groupon . “We try to
concentrate our really big capital positions to fundamentally
good businesses.”  Accel’s Wong made one of those bets last month on Rovio
Mobile Ltd., the Finnish maker of smartphone game “Angry
Birds.” Prior to the investment, the game had attracted more
than 40 million active users without raising any money. Wong
made weekly, sometimes daily, calls to Peter Vesterbacka, who
runs Rovio’s North American operations. In November, he flew to
Helsinki, putting Accel in position to co-lead a $42 million
investment.  “They got on a plane and showed us they were serious,”
said Vesterbacka, who’s in charge of Rovio’s marketing, branding
and partnerships.  Change of Direction  Accel’s turning point came in 2003, after the firm missed
out on investing in Google,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Yahoo! Inc. and
EBay Inc. Accel’s focus had been in the networking and
infrastructure markets, where it backed Redback Networks Inc.,
UUNet Technologies Inc. and Riverbed Technology Inc.  Accel held an offsite meeting in October 2003 in Sausalito,
just over the Golden Gate Bridge from  San Francisco . Following a
competitive mountain biking expedition in the hills of Marin
County, the partners convened at the  Casa Madrona Hotel & Spa .  That’s where they committed to investing in the Web.
Social-networking sites Friendster Inc. and Myspace Inc. were
gaining traction, as were video-calling service Skype
Technologies SA and a new crop of e-commerce companies.  “We sort of understood it, but we really felt we wanted to
gear up more for it,” said Swartz, who was at the meeting along
with fellow partners Patterson, Jim Breyer, Efrusy and Theresia Gouw Ranzetta.  Betting on Facebook  Accel hired more partners and prepared to shell out for
startups it believed would be market leaders. When it invested
in Facebook in 2005 at a valuation of about $100 million, the
service was limited to college students and had little revenue.
Five years later, that investment has multiplied by 500 times.  “The Facebook deal clearly vaulted Accel to the very top
tier of Silicon Valley VCs, just as Amazon and Google did for
Kleiner a decade ago,” said Mitch Kapor, a San Francisco-based
angel investor, founder of Lotus Development Corp. and a partner
at Accel from 1999 to 2001.  Based on Groupon’s expansion, another blockbuster may be on
the way. Efrusy persuaded the partners to do the Groupon deal
after he met Chief Executive Officer Andrew Mason while in
 Chicago  for a wedding in late 2009. He wasn’t deterred by a
valuation that had approached $250 million.  By January, investors were valuing Groupon at $4.75
billion. The company has since held talks with banks about an
IPO that would peg its worth at as much as $25 billion,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Accel also has backed  Etsy Inc. , an online marketplace for
handmade goods, and Glam, a provider of Web-advertising services
targeting women. And it has a stake in cloud-storage company
Dropbox Inc., which venture firms are now trying to invest in at
a valuation that may exceed $1 billion.  “The reason they have such a strong portfolio today is
they were standing out as one of the few venture-capital
companies that was very active in pursuing Web 2.0 content and
social companies in the 2003-2005 timeframe,” said  Samir Arora ,
CEO of Glam in Brisbane,  California . “That became their DNA.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  