-- 
FBI Agents Can Lack Skills to Investigate Computer Intrusions, Report Says

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-04-27T15:37:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/fbi-agents-found-to-lack-skills-on-national-security-hacking.html
A government review of the FBI
agents who investigate national security-related computer
intrusions found about a third of them lack the required
technical skills to do their jobs.  Of 36 agents interviewed, 13 were deficient in at least
some of the necessary capabilities, according to a U.S. Justice
Department inspector general’s  report  released today. Five of
the agents told the inspector general’s office that they viewed
themselves as unqualified to conduct investigations of computer
hacking involving national security.  “One agent told us that he was assigned his first
counterterrorism intrusion case but he did not know how to
investigate a national security intrusion case,” according to
the report.  National security intrusions are the Federal Bureau of
Investigation’s top cyber priority, the report said. Even so,
the report found that the forensic and analytical capability of
FBI field offices was “inadequate to support national security
intrusion investigations.”  An FBI official told the inspector general that not every
field office has the expertise to sufficiently investigate every
national security intrusion, according to the report. The FBI’s
cyber division plans to create a “base capability” in every
field office, the report said.  Field Offices  The interviews with agents were conducted in 10 of the
FBI’s 56 field offices, according to the report.  Jenny Shearer, a spokeswoman for the FBI’s cyber division,
said the picture of staff and training issues presented in the
report “is a snapshot taken from a few field offices.”  The resources the agency can devote to cyber attacks is
limited by congressional appropriations and the agency
consistently spends more money in the area than is in its
budget, Shearer said.  “We’re working hard on it,” she said.  Half of the agents interviewed had prior work experience in
an information technology-related field, according to the
report.  The FBI should develop an “intrusion specialty” for
agents on a cyber career path, according to the report. Doing so
would “better enable the FBI to hire and train qualified
personnel,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  