-- 
Fed Says Pace of U.S. Recovery Is ‘Moderate,’ Bond Buying Will End in June

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-04-27T18:17:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/fed-says-pace-of-u-s-recovery-is-moderate-bond-buying-will-end-in-june.html
Federal Reserve policy makers said
the economy is recovering at a “moderate pace” and a pickup in
inflation is likely to be temporary, as they agreed to finish
$600 billion of bond purchases on schedule in June.  “The economic recovery is proceeding at a moderate pace
and overall conditions in the labor market are improving
gradually,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said today in its
statement after a two-day meeting in Washington. “Increases in
the prices of energy and other commodities have pushed up
inflation in recent months,” and the Fed expects “these
effects to be transitory,” the statement said.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has signaled he’ll maintain record
stimulus until job growth accelerates and the recovery is robust
enough to withstand tighter credit. The Fed chief has said he
expects that a surge this year in fuel and food costs will have
only a passing inflationary impact, differing with Fed regional
bank presidents who say borrowing costs may need to rise to
contain prices.  Stocks rose and the dollar weakened after the statement.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  advanced 0.3 percent to
12,636.62 at 1:33 p.m. in New York. The dollar fell to $1.4706
per euro from $1.4644 late yesterday.  Policy makers, in a release after the statement, lowered
their forecasts for economic growth this year and raised
estimates for a key gauge of inflation that excludes volatile
food and energy prices. The projections of governors and
regional bank presidents were released three weeks sooner than
prior practice.  ‘Prepared to Adjust’  The Fed, discussing its securities portfolio, said it “is
prepared to adjust those holdings as needed to best foster
maximum employment and price stability.” Bernanke discussed the
FOMC statement and the panel’s updated economic projections
today at his first news conference that begin at 2:15 p.m. in
Washington.  The FOMC’s characterization of the recovery as “moderate”
is similar to the description in the Fed’s Beige Book regional
business survey this month and compares with the committee’s
March 15 statement saying the economy is on a “firmer
footing.”  “The Fed’s view of the world hasn’t changed very much,”
Gary Stern, former president of the  Minneapolis Fed , said in an
interview with Bloomberg Radio. “They continue to emphasize the
transitory nature of inflation” and “continue to talk about
the economy improving at a moderate pace.”  Benchmark Rate  The Fed left its benchmark interest rate in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008, and
retained a pledge in place since March 2009 to keep it
“exceptionally low” for an “extended period.” The central
bank will keep reinvesting proceeds of maturing mortgage debt
purchased in the first round of large-scale asset purchases that
lasted from December 2008 to March 2010.  The range of estimates for growth this year was cut to 3.1
percent to 3.3 percent, from 3.4 percent to 3.9 percent in
January. Estimates for the personal consumption expenditures
index, minus food and energy, ranged from 1.3 percent to 1.6
percent, up from a prior range of 1 percent to 1.3 percent.  “The  unemployment rate  remains elevated, and measures of
underlying inflation continue to be somewhat low, relative to
levels that the Committee judges to be consistent, over the
longer run, with its dual mandate” for stable prices and
maximum employment, the Fed said. The “depressed” housing
industry remains a weak spot in the economy, it said.  The Fed repeated that it will “pay close attention to the
evolution of inflation and inflation expectations.”  TIPS Spreads  Bond markets share the Fed’s assessment that inflation will
be transitory. Traders expect inflation, as measured by the
difference between Treasury Inflation Protected Securities and
nominal bonds, to be 2.62 percent over the next two years and
then moderate to 2.39 percent over the next five years.  Today’s FOMC decision was unanimous for a third consecutive
meeting. Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  and Philadelphia
Fed President  Charles Plosser , both skeptics of the second round
of so-called quantitative easing who voted for the statement
today, have suggested they may favor raising  interest rates 
later this year.  Record Stimulus  The Fed’s commitment to record stimulus contrasts with the
interest-rate increase this month by the  European Central Bank 
and tightening this year by the biggest emerging-market
economies, including  China , Brazil and India, which face faster
inflation.  Bernanke became the first Fed chairman to conduct a press
briefing following an FOMC decision when he took the microphone
at the Fed’s headquarters. His counterparts in  Europe ,  Japan ,
the U.K. and Canada already hold regular news conferences.  The press conference, to be broadcast on television and the
central bank’s website, marks one of Bernanke’s biggest efforts
to improve the Fed’s connections with the public and demystify
the institution, which as recently as 1993 didn’t announce its
monetary-policy decisions. Bernanke said in February that the
central bank was weighing benefits of more transparency against
the risk that his remarks would trigger unwanted fluctuations in
financial markets.  Projections  Increases in employment and inflation are helping drive
calls to tighten credit. Payrolls have increased by an average
149,000 a month for the past six months, while the unemployment
rate has dropped by 1 percentage point since November to 8.8
percent, a two-year low.  Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley, the FOMC’s vice chairman, reiterated in a speech April 1
that a faster pace of job growth is “sorely needed” and that
even with 300,000 new jobs per month, the labor market would
still have “considerable slack” at the end of 2012.  Janet Yellen , vice chairman of the Fed’s Board of
Governors, said April 11 that the increase in food and fuel
costs will have only a temporary impact on prices and  consumer
spending , and warrants no reversal of monetary stimulus.  Food and beverage prices rose in the first quarter by the
most since 2008, based on the Labor Department’s Consumer Price
Index, while the cost of regular-unleaded gasoline has increased
by 26 percent this year to $3.88 a gallon as of yesterday.  The increases helped slow U.S. growth to a 2 percent pace
in the first quarter, according to the median estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News, from 3.1 percent in the
prior period. The government releases preliminary figures
tomorrow.  Long-Run Goal  The Commerce Department’s personal consumption expenditures
price index, excluding food and energy, rose 0.9 percent in
February from a year earlier. Policy makers have a long-run goal
for total inflation of about 1.6 percent to 2 percent annually.  Economists say the Fed is at least a few months away from
starting to reverse the stimulus. Most of the 44 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News from April 20 to April 25 said the
central bank this year will probably halt its policy of
replacing maturing mortgage debt with Treasuries. The majority
of respondents also said the Fed will announce a plan next year
of selling mortgage bonds and Treasuries among its assets.  Since the Fed announced the second round of asset purchases
on Nov. 3, yields on 10-year Treasuries increased to 3.31
percent as of yesterday from 2.57 percent, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index gained 12 percent, yesterday reaching the
highest level since June 2008. The dollar weakened by 3.5
percent to the lowest since August 2008 against an index of six
currencies.  ‘Gradual’ Tightening  In a few months, “the data will probably compel them to
begin a gradual process of tightening,” Larry Hatheway, chief
economist for  UBS Investment Bank  in  London , said in a Bloomberg
Television interview before the decision.  “The Fed is still looking essentially at ex-food, ex-
energy prices at core, ticking a little higher,” though not
enough to raise interest rates now, Hatheway said.  Bernanke is still seeing objections from politicians within
the U.S. and abroad almost six months after the Fed began the
unprecedented second round of asset purchases to criticism from
Republican politicians and government officials in Germany,
China and Brazil.  Senator  Mark Kirk , a first-term Republican from Illinois,
sent Bernanke a letter on April 25 expressing concern about
inflation. He called for an early end to asset purchases should
Bernanke “also find the trends that I have now heard widely
about.”  Putin Comments  Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said last week that
compared with the U.S., his country doesn’t have the “same
opportunity to make trouble.” The U.S. is “financing the
government by using a printing press,” he said.  Some U.S. companies are benefiting from global growth.
Atlanta-based United Parcel Service Inc., the world’s largest
package-delivery company, yesterday raised its full-year profit
forecast after increased international shipping demand pushed
first-quarter earnings higher than analysts estimated.  Firms are also coping with inflation. Beaverton, Oregon-
based Nike Inc., the world’s biggest sporting goods company,
said last month it would raise prices. The increases will come
on a “wide range of footwear and apparel styles to help
mitigate the overall impact of higher input costs,” and the
company will carry out “more significant price increases” in
2012, Chief Financial Officer Don Blair said March 17.  Today marked the first time the Fed’s statement was
released at about 12:30 p.m. after more than a decade of aiming
for 2:15 p.m. The central bank said last month it will provide
the statement at 12:30 p.m. during the four two-day meetings
when Bernanke has his press conferences and 2:15 p.m. for the
other four one-day FOMC meetings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  