-- 
Fed Forecasts Show Transitory Inflation and Lower Growth in 2011

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-04-27T18:24:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/fed-forecasts-show-transitory-inflation-and-lower-growth-in-2011.html
Federal Reserve officials forecast
that a measure of prices will rise between 2.1 percent and 2.8
percent this year before moderating, underscoring their view
that inflation pressures will be “transitory.”  The forecast range for this year compares with the 1.3
percent to 1.7 percent rate estimated in January. The Fed’s
preferred gauge of inflation, the personal consumption
expenditures price index minus food and energy, will rise a more
modest 1.3 percent to 1.6 percent this year, up from January’s
estimates of 1.0 percent to 1.3 percent and still within the
Fed’s preferred range of 2 percent or a bit lower.  U.S. central bankers also lowered their forecasts for
growth at a two-day meeting that concluded earlier today in
Washington. Their release of forecasts coincided with Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s first press conference, part of an
effort to improve communications with financial markets and the
public.  The revisions in the forecasts reflected a surge in
commodity prices since Fed officials last updated their outlook
in January. The Fed will complete a $600 billion bond purchase
program in June, according to a Federal Open Market Committee’s
policy statement today.  U.S. central bankers said the economy will expand in a
range of 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent this year, down from 3.4
percent to 3.9 percent forecast in January.  Trimmed Forecasts  Wall Street economists have trimmed their forecasts for
economic growth in 2011 to 2.9 percent in April from 3.1 percent
in January, according to Bloomberg surveys, as consumers have
cut back on spending in the face of higher gasoline prices.  The Fed said in its statement that “inflation has picked
up in recent months, but longer-term inflation expectations have
remained stable and measures of underlying inflation are still
subdued.”  For 2012, Fed officials expect the economy to grow in a
range of 3.5 percent to 4.2 percent, according to their central
tendency forecasts, little changed from a range of 3.5 percent
to 4.4 percent projected in January. Inflation minus food and
energy will rise 1.3 percent to 1.8 percent in 2012, up from 1.0
to 1.5 percent.  Fed officials’ central tendency forecast for the average
 unemployment rate  in the final three months of 2011 fell to 8.4
percent to 8.7 percent versus 8.8 percent to 9.0 percent in
January. Their estimate for unemployment at the end of 2012 was
in a range of 7.6 percent to 7.9 percent versus 7.6 percent to
8.1 percent in January.  Central Tendency  The forecasts are the views of the Fed’s 12 regional bank
presidents and five Washington-based governors. The central
tendency forecasts exclude the three highest and three lowest
predictions for each measure of the economy.  Officials update their forecasts at the Fed’s two-day
meetings, typically held in January, April, June and November.
Beginning today, the forecasts will be released as Bernanke
begins his press conference. They were previously released along
with minutes of the meeting, which are made public in three
weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  