-- 
Fed May Drop ‘Extended Period’ Vow in 2011 as It Prepares to Curb Stimulus

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-27T12:39:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/fed-may-drop-extended-period-vow-in-2011-as-it-prepares-to-curb-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve officials will
probably prepare to pull back from record stimulus by dropping a
pledge this year to hold the main interest rate near zero for an
“extended period,” according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Thirty-three of 44 economists surveyed said the central
bank will remove the two-word phrase from its post-meeting
statement in 2011, with 18 betting it will move by September.
The Fed may wait until 2012 to announce sales of mortgage or
Treasury securities it bought to reduce borrowing costs, with 26
respondents expecting a plan next year, according to the survey,
conducted from April 20 to April 25.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who gives his first press
conference today after a meeting of policy makers, has signaled
he wants to ensure the  U.S. economy  has achieved self-sustaining
growth before the Fed starts to raise borrowing costs and trim
its $2.69-trillion balance sheet. Regional Fed presidents,
including Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser , have said the Fed may
need to contain inflation by raising interest rates this year.  “They’re trying to walk this path, given all the economic
uncertainties, between people who want to stay very, very easy
and people who want to tighten up the grips pretty quickly,”
said  John Silvia , chief economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC 
in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will release its
statement at 12:30 p.m. in  Washington  at the end of a two-day
meeting, which resumed today at about 8:30 a.m. After prior
meetings, the FOMC released the statement at 2:15 p.m. Instead,
Bernanke is scheduled at that time to meet the press, and the
Fed will release economic projections of policy makers, three
weeks earlier than its practice since 2007.  End as Planned  Economists expect little change in the FOMC statement today
compared with its post-meeting comments on March 15. The Fed
will probably confirm that its $600 billion of Treasury
purchases, dubbed QE2 for the second round of quantitative
easing, will end as planned in June, Silvia said. All 83
economists in a separate survey predict the Fed will keep the
main interest rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, its level
since December 2008.  Since the Fed announced the second round of asset purchases
on Nov. 3, yields on 10-year Treasuries increased to 3.31
percent as of yesterday from 2.57 percent, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index gained 12 percent, yesterday reaching the
highest level since June 2008. The dollar has weakened by 3.5
percent to the lowest since August 2008 against an index of six
currencies.  Top Lieutenants  Bernanke and his colleagues are debating how the central
bank should respond, if at all, to the 1 percentage-point drop
in the jobless rate since November and surging food and fuel
prices. The chairman and his top two lieutenants, Vice Chairman
 Janet Yellen  and Federal Reserve Bank of New York President
William C. Dudley, indicated this month they don’t see an
immediate need to tighten credit because the boost to inflation
is likely to prove temporary.  “So long as inflation expectations remain stable and well
anchored” and the rise in commodity prices slows, then “the
increase in inflation will be transitory,” Bernanke said April
4 in response to audience questions after a speech in Stone
Mountain,  Georgia .  Food and beverage prices rose in the first quarter by the
most since 2008, based on the Labor Department’s Consumer Price
Index, while the cost of regular, unleaded gasoline has
increased by 26 percent this year to $3.88 a gallon as of April
25, the highest since 2008. One measure of inflation
expectations, the yield difference between 10-year inflation-
linked debt and comparable-maturity Treasuries, has traded
within a range of 2.42 percentage points to 2.64 points since
February, Bloomberg data show.  Inflation Gains  The inflation gains helped slow U.S. growth to a 2 percent
pace in the first quarter, the median estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News, from 3.1 percent in the prior
quarter. The government releases preliminary figures tomorrow.  The Bloomberg survey focused on the “extended period”
phrase and also found that 32 of 44 economists expect the Fed
this year to halt its policy of keeping its portfolio level
stable by replacing maturing mortgage-backed securities with
Treasuries. Nine respondents see that happening in June; 12 in
the third quarter; and 11 in the fourth period.  The responses indicate that economists expect the Fed to
change the statement language and allow its portfolio to shrink
before raising interest rates or actively reducing the balance
sheet. The Fed began the reinvestment policy in August, aiming
to avoid what Bernanke said was a “passive tightening” of
monetary policy just as U.S. growth slowed.  Benchmark Rate  A separate Bloomberg News survey conducted from April 1 to
April 7 found that just 17 of 74 economists expect the Fed to
raise the benchmark overnight lending rate this year.  Ending reinvestment “would be a signal, we believe, that
the tightening cycle has begun,” said Dana Saporta, a U.S.
economist with Credit Suisse in  New York . She forecasts the Fed
will make the move in the fourth quarter, about a year before it
raises interest rates.  Asset sales wouldn’t occur until at least 2014, Saporta
said. “I don’t think Bernanke would necessarily want to be the
first chairman to oversee the Fed selling assets at a loss, so I
think they’ll delay that.”  The Fed may start preparing investors sooner for the policy
shifts with a change in its “tone,” acknowledging economic
improvement and risks to inflation, Eric Pellicciaro, head of
global rates investments at BlackRock Inc. in New York, said in
a Bloomberg Television interview. Pellicciaro wasn’t a
respondent in the survey, though he said the “extended period”
phrase may change in November.  “It’s going to need to move its policy from the fifth gear
down to the third gear,” Pellicciaro said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  