-- 
For Bonds, Lying Worked Well: Interview With James B. Stewart

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-04-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/for-bonds-lying-worked-well-interview-with-james-b-stewart.html
Once upon a time, perjury was an
offense so serious that in  England  you could get your tongue cut
out. Nowadays people lie with impunity under oath and live to
babble about it.  But imagine if Martha Stewart had to mime her TV show. Or
if a lingual intervention kept  Bernie Madoff  from another
promotional interview. Might make people lie a little less.  Stewart and Madoff join baseball slugger Barry Bonds and
Lewis “Scooter” Libby, an aide to former Vice President  Dick Cheney , in James B. Stewart’s remarkable new book “ Tangled
Webs.”   False statements, writes the Pulitzer Prize-winning author,
undermine “the ideals of fair play, integrity, and trust to
which people of goodwill everywhere aspire.” His quartet
illustrates the ripple effects of lying on friends, associates,
investors, voters and society.  We spoke at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters shortly after
Bonds was found guilty on one miserable count of obstructing
justice, but not perjury, after an investigation lasting almost
eight years and costing millions of dollars.  Hoelterhoff: Were you surprised?  Stewart: I was surprised he was convicted of anything, even
though outside the courtroom I think the evidence is
overwhelming.  Juries can be faced with overwhelming evidence, but if they
have an overarching sense of “this isn’t fair because everybody
else is getting away with it,” then they don’t convict.  Hoelterhoff: So, for Bonds, lying worked.  Massive Lying  Stewart: I’m afraid that’s the conclusion people will take
away.  But what I was trying to illustrate in the Bonds case, even
before the verdict came out, was how perjury cripples the
judicial system. In this country the entire judicial system
rests on an honor code. That people will put their hand up,
swear to tell the truth, and then actually tell the truth.  The amount of lying in the steroid investigation that led
to Bonds was massive. Most of the people started out lying. They
lied, they changed the story, and they were never held
accountable for it.  Greg Anderson , Bonds’s trainer, refused to talk. He could
either have exonerated Bonds if he were innocent or convicted
him if he were guilty.  As he was getting out of jail, his fellow inmates gave him
a standing ovation, and to me that pretty much says it all. That
silence, that kind of loyalty, is the code of the prison yard,
of the Mafia, of organized crime. This is the society that
values loyalty, and silence and lying, over telling the truth.  Hoelterhoff: A clinical psychologist you cite observes that
highly successful people tend to lie more easily and more
frequently than normal or average people.  Worse Than Ever  Stewart: I think she’s right, and there are a number of
reasons why people at the top are more prone to lying. The
simplest answer is they lie because they think they’re going to
get away with it. And they’re shrewd evaluators of risk and
reward.  Hoelterhoff: And quite a number end up on  Wall Street .  Stewart: Lots of them. I had the idea for this book when I
was giving a talk about all those corporate scandals of the last
10 or 20 years: WorldCom, Adelphia, Tyco. And I was thinking,
what’s the common thread here? And I realized it’s lying,
flagrant lying by CEOs misleading investors.  Hoelterhoff: What’s changed since you wrote “ Den of
Thieves ” about the high flyers of the 1980s, Milken and pals?  Stewart: It’s worse. I look back nostalgically to an era
where we thought, “Oh my God, that’s so horrible, that whole
junk bond scandal and  insider trading !”  I mean insider trading is rampant. We have a Sarbanes-Oxley
bill making it illegal for CEOs and CFOs to sign false financial
statements. But who ever would have thought such a thing would
even be necessary?  Law enforcement  is important in this area,
but it can’t do it all. If everyone is lying under oath, there
isn’t enough law enforcement in the world to curb that.  It’s got to start at a deeply personal moral level.  Hoelterhoff: You ask that the president speak out on lying.
It seems to me we might be better off importing a thousand nuns
from  Manila .  Past Presidents  Stewart: Call me naive. When I ask the president to say
something about it from the top, it’s because I think that’s
what it takes because we have such a sorry track record.  In  Bill Clinton  we had a president who did lie under oath,
and very grudgingly admitted it. Then  George Bush  -- after a top
aide, Scooter Libby, was convicted of lying and flagrantly
committing perjury on multiple occasions, Bush commuted his
sentence. Libby didn’t have to go to jail.  What kind of message does that send?  Hoelterhoff: You detail how Madoff was actually a terrible
liar and it still took decades to nail him.  Stewart: I really use him as the main example of what
happens when law enforcement is confronted with perjury, false
statements under oath, and they just shrug and say, “Oh well,
everybody lies.”  Hoelterhoff: Martha Stewart, of course, insists she didn’t
lie about that well-timed stock sale and made quite the
comeback.  Stewart: And she’s now saying she doesn’t even remember why
she was prosecuted. But OK, let’s say  Martha Stewart  is fine --
look at all the other people she damaged.  Her stock broker isn’t fine, his young assistant isn’t
fine, the shareholders of her company are not fine. Many of her
employees at the time were put through the ringer; they’re not
fine.  “Tangled Webs: How False Statements Are Undermining
America: From Martha Stewart to Bernie Madoff” is published by
Penguin Press ($29.95, 473 pages). To buy this book in  North
America , click  here .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and leisure section. All opinions are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21A@bloomberg.net  