-- 
Ukraine Ex-Prime Minister Tymoshenko Sues Firtash, Gazprom's RosUkrEnergo

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-04-27T04:01:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/former-ukraine-prime-minister-tymoshenko-sues-rosukrenergo-1-.html
Former Ukrainian prime minister
 Yulia Tymoshenko , in a U.S. racketeering lawsuit, accused gas
trader RosUkrEnergo AG and Ukrainian businessman Dmitry Firtash
of conspiring to manipulate an arbitration court ruling that she
claims robbed the country’s natural gas supplies.  A Stockholm Arbitration Court ruling last year that
Ukraine’s state run energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy owed
RosUkrEnergo 12.1 billion cubic meters of gas deprived the
Ukrainian people of fuel that the government had already paid
for and allowed Firtash, an owner of the gas trader, to reap
billions when the gas was resold on the open market, according
to the complaint filed yesterday in federal court in New York.  “The Stockholm arbitration ruling in favor of Firtash’s
company has been widely perceived as a means of generating huge
sums of cash with which Firtash and his associates could
continue to illegally fund the pervasive system of corruption
that encompasses every level of government, while at the same
time suppressing political dissent through intimidation,
racketeering and other violations of fundamental human and
political rights,” according to the complaint.  The case seeks to represent all Ukrainian people in a class
action and was filed under U.S. racketeering law and the Alien
Torts Statute, a law that allows foreigners seeking damages for
violations of international human rights laws to sue in U.S.
courts. The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and
punitive damages.  Accord With  Russia   Tymoshenko, who lost a presidential election to  Viktor Yanukovych  last year, signed an accord with Russia in January
2009 that eliminated RosUkrEnergo from the market. RosUkrEnergo
claimed Tymoshenko had effectively confiscated the natural gas
and appealed to the Stockholm Arbitration Tribunal.  The tribunal ruled on June 8 that Ukraine’s Naftogaz should
restore 12.1 billion cubic meters of gas, including penalties,
to RosUkrEnergo by Sept. 1, 2010. Tymoshenko disputes the claim.  Ukraine’s prosecutors this month opened a criminal case
against Tymoshenko, accusing her of abuse of power related to
natural-gas contracts her government signed with Russia in 2009.  No one answered a phone call to RosUkrEnergo after regular
business hours yesterday. Representatives of Group DF, where
Firtash is executive chairman, didn’t respond to an e-mail sent
after regular business hours yesterday.  The case is Tymoshenko v. Firtash, 11-02794, U.S. District
Court,  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  