-- 
Tano Capital Moves Hedge Fund to Singapore on Currency Gains

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-04-27T02:04:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/franklin-templeton-s-family-firm-moves-hedge-fund-to-singapore-on-currency.html
Tano Capital , the family office of
the founders of Franklin Templeton Investments, opened a unit in
 Singapore  as it expects investors in its hedge fund to benefit
from a strong local currency.  Tano Capital is changing the jurisdiction of Tano Global
Hard Assets Fund, a long-short hedge fund which focuses on
commodities, to Singapore from Delaware, said Charles E. Johnson,
founder of the San Mateo, California-based firm.  The fund, currently in U.S. dollars, will be denominated in
the Singapore currency starting next month, Johnson, 55, said in
an interview yesterday. The  Singapore dollar  has climbed 11
percent in the past 12 months, the best performer in Asia
outside  Japan , as policy makers used the currency as their main
tool to fight inflation.  “The Singapore dollar is a much more sensibly managed
currency than a lot of other currencies; we would love to give
our investor base, which is global, that opportunity,” said
Johnson, the former co-president of  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN) ,
owner of the Franklin and Templeton mutual funds. “The currency
will remain one of the stronger ones globally.”  The Monetary Authority of Singapore said this month it
would allow further gains in the currency in the third
tightening of monetary policy in a year. Unlike most central
banks that use  interest rates  to control inflation, Singapore
conducts monetary policy through its  exchange rate , adjusting
the pace of appreciation or depreciation against an undisclosed
band of currencies.  Economic Growth  The island’s gross domestic product rose at an annual rate
of 23.5 percent last quarter from the previous three months,
more than twice the pace economists forecast, according to
preliminary estimates from the trade ministry.  “The Singapore government manages the Singapore finances
very commendably,” said Johnson, the grandson of Rupert Johnson
Sr., the founder of Franklin Templeton Investments.  The $80 million Tano Global Hard Assets Fund invests in
shares of commodity companies including oil, mining and
agricultural firms, and bets on commodity futures, Johnson said.  “Interesting commodity companies” such as  Wilmar
International Ltd. (WIL) , the world’s biggest palm-oil processor, and
Olam International Ltd., a supplier of agricultural commodities,
are based in Singapore, he said.  Still, the Singapore stock market is only the eighth
largest among 16 in the Asia-Pacific region tracked by Bloomberg,
lagging behind countries including Japan,  China  and  India .  Key Shipping Area  “Singapore geographically is located in a very key area in
terms of shipping,” Johnson said. “There’s a lot of data about
what’s being moved around the world that flows through the
Singapore port.”  Tano Capital, which opened its Singapore office last week,
manages about $400 million, including private-equity investments
in China and India. The firm, which also manages external
investors’ money, will start with an initial team of three
people in the city-state, Johnson said.  There are about 50 established family offices in  Asia 
outside of Japan following investment processes and business
objectives similar to their counterparts in the U.S. and  Europe ,
according to Scorpio Partnership, a London-based firm that
provides research to the wealth-management industry. Asian
economies have recovered faster from the global recession than
the U.S. and Europe, led by China and India.  “Asia is where the action is, where all the high growth is
going to happen over the next 20 years,” Johnson said. “That’s
also what attracts us to Singapore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  