-- 
LG Electronics Reports Unexpected First-Quarter Loss on Mobile Phones, TVs

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-04-27T09:57:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/lg-electronics-reports-unexpected-first-quarter-loss-on-mobile-phones-tvs.html
LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s
third-largest maker of  mobile phones , posted an unexpected
second straight quarterly loss after a slump in handset sales
and lower earnings from home appliances.  The first-quarter net loss was 15.8 billion won ($15
million), compared with 674.6 billion won profit a year earlier,
Seoul-based LG said in a statement today. Analysts predicted
profit of 56.6 billion won, based on the average of 11 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg in the past 28 days. Sales were little
changed at 13.2 trillion won.  The mobile-phone business posted a loss for a fourth
straight quarter after LG’s Optimus smartphones failed to take
market share from models by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics
Co. LG is counting on smartphones and 3-D TVs to help  Korea ’s
second-largest electronics maker to revive profitability.  “They don’t really have a business that can rise above
others,” said Song Seong Yeob, a  fund manager  at Seoul-based KB
Asset Management Co., which manages $21 billion in assets.
“Their profit margin largely hinges on the handset business but
I’m still not sure how well it will do.”  LG climbed 0.5 percent to 105,000 won at the 3 p.m. close
of trading on the Korea Exchange, while the benchmark  Kospi
index (KOSPI)  was little changed.  Mobile-Phone Losses  Losses at units including LG Display Co. contributed to the
net loss in the first quarter, LG said.  The company had an operating profit of 130.8 billion won, a
73 percent drop from a year earlier. The mobile-phone division
had an operating loss of 100.5 billion won, as shipments fell 10
percent from last year, LG said.  “We still have many weaknesses,” Chief Financial Officer
David Jung said at a briefing in Seoul. “We still have a long
way to go.”  Sales and earnings will improve this quarter, as new
smartphones and TVs featuring 3-D functions go on sale, and the
handset unit may return to profit in the second half, he said.  LG expects smartphones to account for about 20 percent of
its overall handset sales this year, as it aims to boost mobile-
phone sales by 30 percent. The company will gradually reduce the
number of unprofitable models this year, Jung said. A key new
model to drive sales in the second quarter is the  Optimus 3D ,
which is capable of recording 3-D images, LG said.  The company probably sold more than 2 million Optimus One
phones in the first quarter, according to Daiwa Securities Group
Inc. In November, the device became LG’s first smartphone to
sell more than 1 million units.  TV  The home-entertainment division that makes TVs had an
operating profit of 82.1 billion won, falling from the 149.7
billion won profit a year earlier. Sales fell 4.8 percent after
intensifying competition led the company to cut prices.  The recovery in spending on liquid-crystal-display
televisions has been “particularly slow,” as the latest models
equipped with 3-D functionality and Web-based services failed to
generate fresh demand, James Song, an analyst at Daewoo
Securities Co., wrote in a March 15 report.  The average price of flat-screen TVs in the U.S. fell for a
 third straight month  in February as makers tried to clear
inventory before rolling out new models, according to IHS
ISuppli, a research company in El Segundo,  California .  LG expects sales of its 3-D TVs to gain momentum from April
as stores in the U.S. and major European markets start stocking
its latest models, Havis Kwon, head of the company’s TV
business, said April 6.  LG aims to boost its TV market share to 16 percent this
year from about 12 percent in 2010 by introducing new models
capable of showing 3-D images and connecting to the Web, Kwon
said in February.  Home Appliances  Profit at the home-appliance division fell 50 percent to
102.7 billion won, missing the 132.2 billion won median of five
analyst estimates surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The profit decline stems from rising raw material costs and
price cuts, Kim Ji San, an analyst at Kiwoom Securities Co. in
 Seoul , wrote in a March 24 report. The company’s plan to
increase prices in the U.S. may help cushion the impact of
costlier raw materials, he said.  LG may raise prices in some markets to reflect rising costs
for raw materials, Jung said.  The company said in February that it will raise prices for
major appliances by 8 percent to 10 percent in the U.S. from
April 11. The electronics company aims to generate $20 billion
in home-appliance sales in 2014 by pushing into new areas such
as water treatment and built-in appliances, it said Jan. 11. 