-- 
Immelt Says Economic Strength Will Boost GE’s Second-Half Profit Growth

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-04-27T18:50:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/ge-s-immelt-sees-global-economy-improving-even-as-oil-rises.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s profit
growth should accelerate in the second half of this year and
next as the company emerges from recession with a simpler group
of businesses and the global economy improves, executives said.  “The world we face is getting better,” Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  told investors at the company’s annual
meeting in  Salt Lake City  today. “We see signs of economic
strength every day.”  Energy-efficient product sales will accelerate in the
second half of this year, helping to drive GE’s profit growth
into 2012, Immelt said. He’s reshaped GE over the past decade by
focusing on industrial units, spending on research and more than
$12 billion of acquisitions since October, mostly in the energy
divisions, as the company sold  NBC Universal .  “This is the best earnings outlook we’ve had in the last
10 years,” Chief Financial Officer Keith Sherin said.  Global conditions are improving daily even as oil prices
rise, Immelt told reporters before the meeting.  “It’s always something to be concerned about because of
 consumer confidence , but from a GE context, we have such great
technology” in energy products, Immelt told reporters today
before the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company’s annual
meeting. “It’s something to think about, but it doesn’t seem to
be hurting the economy. So far.”  Deficit Drag  Housing and government deficits remain a drag, while global
mergers and acquisitions show confidence among chief executives
is increasing as they spend cash, Immelt and Sherin told
investors.  Performance at  GE Capital , the company’s finance unit, has
“snapped back” and is accelerating, the executives said.
Profit at the industrial units, such as  GE Energy , the world’s
biggest maker of power-generation equipment, should accelerate
in the second half of 2011, Immelt said.  Immelt, who leads President  Barack Obama ’s advisory council
focused on creating jobs and competitiveness, said he was
“honored to be a part of this council” and that his intent was
to bring a private sector view.  “I think all of us that serve in councils like that just
try to represent our best judgment,” Immelt said, noting his
point of reference isn’t always tied to GE itself. He said he
doesn’t have a “black and white philosophy. I want to be
helpful. I want to try my best to help.”  Dividend Raised  The company raised its dividend for the third time since
July and now plans to concentrate on stock buybacks and the
dividend, putting aside large acquisitions in the $3 billion
range for the year, Immelt said.  Shares of GE rose 57 cents, or 2.8 percent, at 12:45 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Before today, GE
climbed 9.9 percent this year in New York trading, compared with
a 7.1 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and an
8.8 percent gain in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  GE now pays a 15 cent quarterly dividend, almost half the
31 cent payout it made before cutting it to preserve cash during
the recession.  The company earned more money during the financial decline
than when the stock was at an record high, and the finance
division has “snapped back,” Immelt said.  All five shareholder proposals failed. The advisory vote on
executive compensation, known as “say-on-pay” and required
under laws passed by Congress after the financial crisis, passed
with 85 percent of the votes.  Directors Approved  All 16 directors standing for re-election were approved.
William Castell, who ran Amersham Plc before Immelt bought the
health-care company in 2004, is retiring from the board.  GE has about 1,000 employees in  Utah , mostly at GE
Healthcare’s surgical unit and at its industrial and thrift
banks owned by the finance unit. About 268 people attended the
event.  Several dozen protesters from GE’s unions, including
International Union of Electrical Workers-Communications Workers
of America, lobbied outside the meeting ahead of contract
negotiations that begin next month.  Outside the meeting, a group called FreedomWorks and a
gathering of Tea Party members protested Immelt’s position
leading an outside advisory council on jobs and competitiveness
for President Obama. About 70 members attended the event, said
Adam Brandon, a spokesman for the group, a coalition of
activists and shareholders.  Immelt’s Options  GE said this month it amended terms of the 2 million
options Immelt was awarded last year to tie half to industrial
 cash flow  from operations and half to GE’s performance against
the  S&P 500 . The change followed discussions with shareholders,
the company said.  On April 7, GE wrote to shareholders that the company
disagreed with an Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.
recommendation to oppose proposed  executive compensation  in an
advisory vote. GE said in the letter that ISS’s recommendations
were based on an “incomplete and inaccurate analysis.”  ISS changed its recommendation in light of GE’s altering of
Immelt’s option package. The award was intended to underscore
the board’s confidence in his leadership in steering the company
through the financial crisis, GE said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  