-- 
General Growth First-Quarter FFO Climbs as U.S. Consumer Demand Increases

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-04-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/general-growth-first-quarter-ffo-climbs-as-u-s-consumer-demand-increases.html
General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the
No. 2 U.S. mall owner, said funds from operations gained in the
first quarter as mall occupancies climbed amid an increase in
 consumer spending .  Funds from operations were $306.1 million, or 30 cents a
share, compared with $248.2 million, or 76 cents, a year
earlier, the Chicago-based company said yesterday in a
statement. The per-share figure declined as the number of the
shares outstanding increased.  U.S. retail sales gained in March for a ninth consecutive
month, the Commerce Department reported April 13. Occupancies at
General Growth’s malls rose 40 basis points to 92.4 percent, and
tenant sales climbed 7.3 percent to $457 a square foot.  General Growth’s core FFO, which excludes such items as
results from discontinued operations and interest expense on
repaid debt, totaled 22 cents a share. The company was expected
to have FFO of 23 cents a share, the average estimate of 10
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  FFO, a cash-flow measure used by real estate investment
trusts, excludes depreciation and other items and doesn’t
conform to generally accepted accounting principles.  General Growth filed for Chapter 11 protection in April
2009 after weighing itself down with $27 billion in debt that it
was unable to refinance because of the credit crisis and
collapse of the commercial mortgage-backed  securities market . It
emerged from bankruptcy in November.  Shares Rise  First-quarter results were announced yesterday after the
close of regular U.S. trading. General Growth shares rose 5
cents to $15.99 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The company has investment and management stakes in 169
malls in 43 U.S. states.  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the only U.S. mall owner larger
than General Growth, plans to report its first-quarter results
on April 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  