-- 
Genzyme, Nokia, Apple, J&J, Amazon: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-04-27T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/genzyme-nokia-apple-j-j-amazon-com-intellectual-property.html
Genzyme Corp. (GENZ) , the drugmaker bought
by  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN)  this month, sued  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  and
 Anika Therapeutics Inc. (ANIK)  alleging the companies’ treatments for
arthritic knee pain infringe a patent.  Genzyme is seeking to block sales of Anika’s Monovisc drug
as well as a treatment made by Seikagaku Corp. and distributed
by Zimmer called Gel-One, according to two patent-infringement
lawsuits filed yesterday in federal court in  Boston . Genzyme,
based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , is also seeking cash
compensation.  Genzyme filed the lawsuits the same day it was issued
patent 7,931,030 for a method of treating a knee joint with a
single injection of  hyaluronic acid , which the company markets
as Synvisc-One, according to the complaint. Sales of Synvisc-One
and of Synvisc, a three-injection drug, rose 20 percent to $393
million last year, Genzyme said in its annual report.  Synvisc-One was the only single-injection treatment
approved by U.S. regulators until Anika’s Gel-One was approved
on March 22, according to the complaint against Warsaw, Indiana-
based Zimmer. Tokyo-based Seikagaku was named in the Zimmer
lawsuit.  Anika, based in Bedford, Massachusetts, sells Monovisc in
 Europe , Turkey and  Canada , and is seeking approval to sell it in
the U.S. Anika has “already begun advertising for field sales
representatives,” Genzyme said in the complaint.  Garry Clark, a spokesman for Zimmer, said the company
doesn’t comment on pending litigation. Officials with Anika
didn’t immediately return messages seeking comment.  Paris-based Sanofi bought Genzyme, the world’s largest
maker of medicines for rare genetic disorders, for at least
$20.1 billion.  The cases are Genzyme Corp. v.  Seikagaku Corp. (4548) , 11cv10704,
and Genzyme Corp. v. Anika Therapeutics Inc., 11cv10705, both in
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  Nokia Complaint Against Apple to Be Considered by Trade Agency  A U.S. trade agency said it would investigate a complaint
by  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  that accuses  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  of infringing patents
related to mobile-phone technology.  The U.S. International Trade Commission, in a  notice  posted
on its website April 25, said it will review whether Nokia’s
patent rights are being violated by Apple’s iPhone, iPod Touch,
iPad tablet and MacBook computer. The Washington-based agency
can block imports of products that infringe U.S. patents.  Nokia’s March 28 complaint was the second the Espoo,
Finland-based handset maker lodged with the ITC against Apple.
Nokia claims Apple is infringing seven patents “to create key
features in its products in the areas of multi-tasking operating
systems, data synchronization, positioning, call quality and the
use of Bluetooth accessories.”  An administrative ITC judge said March 25 that Apple wasn’t
infringing five different Nokia patents, and the full six-member
commission is considering whether to review that finding.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , has its own claims
against Nokia, which were split into two cases. The judge
handling the bulk of the allegations is scheduled to release his
findings June 24, and another judge who heard claims over one
patent is scheduled to announce his findings by Aug. 5.  The agency typically completes its investigations in 15 to
18 months.  The new  case  is In the Matter of Certain Electronic
Devices, Including Mobile Phones, Mobile Tablets, Portable Music
Players and Computers, 337-771, U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington )  MSF Expresses ‘Disappointment’ at J&J Stance on AIDS Patents  Medicines Sans Frontiers  sent a letter to  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
April 20, expressing “disappointment” that the pharmaceutical
company hasn’t placed any patents into a patent pool for AIDS
drugs.  The French charity, which provides medical care to
underserved populations, was speaking of the Medicines Patent
Pool established by UNITAID, an agency with the mission of
buying drugs against malaria, AIDS and tuberculosis.  According to the  MSF letter , the charity had previously
urged Johnson & Johnson to license its patents for the AIDS
drugs rilpivirine, darunavir and etravirine.  In  a Jan. 31 letter to Medicines Patent Pool , J&J said that
rather than license the relevant patents to the pool, ‘we have
directly contracted with generic companies to help provide these
essential services.” The New Brunswick, New Jersey-based
company said it was “confident” its agreements with generic
manufacturers were “providing the best route to expand access
to patients in need.”  MSF argued in its letter that its ability to manage AIDS
drugs patents collectively “will allow for the creation of
fixed-dose combinations and pediatric formulations in a more
effective manner than individual voluntary licensees schemes
from multiple originators.”  In its letter, the French charity expressed a willingness
to meet with J&J for further discussions of patent-pool
licensing. J&J said in its letter that its present agreements
for licensing its AIDS drugs to generic manufacturers “do not
preclude the possibility of future negotiations” with the
patent pool “as patient need, approved uses and the patent pool
evolve.”  The Medicines Patent Pool  was spun off  from UNITAID in
November 2010. UNITAID,  which is funded  through various
countries’ tax on airline tickets, is financing the patent
pool’s operations for the next five years.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Nina Paley Says Don’t Ask for Permission to Use Her Work  Filmmaker and cartoonist  Nina Paley  reiterated her position
on copyright infringement issues in a recent blog posting titled
“ Yes Means Yes .”  She said people don’t need permission to re-use her work.
“You already have permission. Please copy, share, re-use, edit,
modify, sell etc,” Paley said in her April 20 posting.  Asking permission to share her work “wastes your time and
mine,” she said. Her goal of making her work available for free
is freeing up her time to make more art instead of “having to
oversee and administrate every re-use,” she said.  The blanket permissions extend to “ Sita Sings the Blues ,”
her 2008 animated feature, Paley said.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Amazon.com Seeks Dismissal of Apple Lawsuit Over ‘ App Store ’  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , responding to a trademark lawsuit by Apple
Inc. over its use of the words “App Store,” said the term is
generic and denied that the iPhone maker has exclusive rights to
the phrase.  Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, said it isn’t
required to obtain a license or authorization to use “App
Store” because the term is “unprotectable” and won’t be
confused or unfairly compete with Apple’s App Store service,
according to a filing yesterday in federal court in Oakland,
California. Amazon’s Appstore offering downloads of software for
Android devices opened March 22. App is short for application.  “Based on their common meaning, the words ‘app store’
together denote a store for apps, such as the app stores
operated by Amazon and Apple,” Amazon said in the filing.  Apple’s lawsuit, filed March 18, should be thrown out and a
court order confirming Amazon’s right to use the words should be
issued, Seattle-based Amazon said.  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  Apple’s App Store, started in 2008, offers downloads of
programs from the company and third-party developers to users of
iPhones, iPod media players and iPad tablet computers.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, applied to register
App Store as a trademark in the U.S., and the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office approved the application, Apple said in the
lawsuit. The mark hasn’t yet been formally registered and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is opposing the application.  Both Microsoft and Apple have brought in linguistics
experts who filed reports to the patent office supporting their
opposing contentions about whether “app store” is a generic
term or a proper noun.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Amazon.com Inc., 11-1327, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  Walgreen, Wegmans Settle Trademark Dispute Over ‘W’ Logo  Walgreen Co. and Wegmans Food Markets Inc. settled a
trademark dispute involving a store logo.  Walgreen, based in Deerfield,  Illinois , sued closely held
Wegmans in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia, on Oct. 27,
claiming the letter “W” used in the grocery company’s logo too
closely resembled the “W” that is a registered trademark for
the drugstore chain.  Wegmans, based in Rochester,  New York , has in-store
pharmacies in five states, and Walgreen complained that the
similarity of the two logos would lead consumers to a false
belief that the two companies had an affiliation.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed in a court
filing. Wegmans said in a  statement  that it would quit using the
“circle W” symbol on its Wegmans brand packaging by the end of
June 2012. It will retain the right to use “Wegmans” in
script, it said.  “The cost of making relatively minor changes to a limited
number of products was much less than the cost of litigating
this case to the end,” Jo Natale, a Wegmans spokeswoman, said
in the statement.  Wegmans never had any intent to make its products or logos
resemble Walgreen’s, she said.  The case is  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  v. Wegmans Food Markets Inc.,
1:10-cv-01216-TSE-TCB, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  Obituary  Norman Latker, Prime Mover for Bayh-Dole Act, Dies at 79  Norman J. Latker, who played a key role in the passage of
the 1980  Bayh-Dole Act  that allows universities and research
institutes to take title to inventions stemming from federally
funded research, has died. He was 79.  When Latker was a patent counsel with the National
Institutes of Health, he published a study showing that of
30,000 federally owned patents, almost none had been
commercialized. U.S. senators Birch Bayh and Robert Dole used
the data to support their bill.  As a result of the bill’s passage, $100 billion worth of
technology was released for licensing to the private sector,
Bruce Merrifield, former Assistant Secretary of Commerce in the
Reagan Administration, said in a statement posted on the online
guestbook accompanying Latker’s April 17  obituary  in the
Washington Post.  “Norm left behind an enduring legacy that he and his
family can be proud of,” Robin Rasor, president of the
Association of University Technology Managers,
said in an e-mail. AUTM presented Latker with its Driving
Innovation award at a December celebration of the 30th
anniversary of Bayh-Dole.  After leaving NIH, Latker worked in the Small Business
Administration’s Office of Advocacy and, later, the Office of
Federal Procurement Policy and the Department of Commerce, where
he developed implementing regulations for Bayh-Dole.  He also
drafted the 1986 Federal Technology Transfer Act.  Latker also headed the Interagency Committee on Technology
Transfer, established to implement the 1986 law.  After he left
government service, Latker practiced at Washington’s Brody &
Neimark PLLC.  He had an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering and
a law degree from the University of Illinois. He also received
honorary doctorates from the University of Illinois and the
University of Wisconsin in recognition of his contributions to
technology transfer.  Latker, who lived in Bethesda, Maryland, at the time of his
death, was survived by his wife and two children. His family
requested that memorial donations be made to the  Tuberous
Sclerosis Alliance .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 