-- 
Six German States Report Inflation Accelerated in April

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-04-27T10:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/germany-s-state-of-saxony-says-inflation-accelerated-in-april.html
Six German states said inflation
accelerated in April, driven by higher energy costs.  The inflation rate in Baden-Wuerttemberg jumped to 2.6
percent from 2.1 percent in March, while the rates in Bavaria,
North Rhine-Westphalia and Saxony all rose to 2.5 percent, the
states’ statistics offices said today. Inflation also
accelerated in Brandenburg and Hesse.  Economists expect German harmonized inflation to quicken to
2.6 percent from 2.3 percent, the median of 21 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey shows. That report, based on data from the
six states, is due later today.  Surging  oil prices  have pushed inflation above the  European
Central Bank ’s 2 percent limit, prompting policy makers to raise
the benchmark interest rate this month to 1.25 percent from a
record low of 1 percent. While ECB officials have signaled they
will keep increasing borrowing costs to curb price pressures as
the euro region’s economy strengthens, peripheral nations such
as Greece, Portugal and Ireland remain mired in a sovereign debt
crisis.  “German price developments feed strongly into euro-area
inflation, so the ECB clearly won’t jump for joy,” said Rainer Sartoris, an economist at HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG in
Dusseldorf. “While policy makers will continue to stress that
this month’s rate increase wasn’t the last, they are not yet in
a situation where they need to open the throttle.”  ECB Rates  Investor expectations for two more quarter-point increases
in the benchmark rate this year, taking it to 1.75 percent, are
“well founded,” ECB council member  Ewald Nowotny  told
Bloomberg News in  Washington  on April 16.  “We’re seeing a noticeable clouding-over of the price
outlook, in  Germany  more so than in the euro region,”
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said on April 15. Germany’s
inflation rate may exceed 3 percent “during some months of the
second half of the year,” he added.  Euro-area inflation probably accelerated to 2.7 percent
this month from 2.6 percent in March, according to the median of
34 economist forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. That report
is due from the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
on April 29.  In Saxony, consumer prices rose 0.4 percent from March,
today’s report showed. Fuel prices jumped 3.5 percent from a
month earlier, while heating oil costs rose 0.8 percent.
Economists expect German consumer prices to increase 0.2 percent
from March, the Bloomberg survey shows.  Economic Growth  Puma AG,  Europe ’s second-largest sporting-goods maker, will
raise prices in the fourth quarter to adjust for higher raw-
material costs, Chief Executive Officer Jochen Zeitz said
yesterday. First-quarter profit rose 7.2 percent,
Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Puma said.  Europe’s largest economy may have expanded as much as 1
percent in the first three months of the year and will probably
maintain its growth momentum in the current quarter, the
Bundesbank said on April 18. The German government predicts
growth of 2.6 percent this year after a record 3.6 percent
expansion in 2010.  Factory orders and industrial production jumped more than
economists expected in February and unemployment fell for the
21st straight month in March, pushing the jobless rate to 7.1
percent, the lowest since June 1992.  Still,  consumer confidence  will decline for a second month
in May as households grapple with higher prices, market research
company GfK AG said today. Business confidence eased for a
second month in April after reaching a record high in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  