-- 
German Inflation Accelerated in April as Energy Prices Rose

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-04-27T12:29:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/german-inflation-accelerated-in-april-as-energy-prices-increased.html
Inflation in  Germany ,  Europe ’s
largest economy, accelerated in April as energy costs rose,
adding to pressure on the  European Central Bank  to increase
interest rates.  The harmonized inflation rate jumped to 2.6 percent from
2.3 percent in March, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden
said today. That’s in line with the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 21 economists. In the month, consumer
prices rose 0.2 percent.  Surging  oil prices  have pushed inflation above the ECB’s 2
percent limit, prompting policy makers to raise the benchmark
interest rate this month to 1.25 percent from a record low of 1
percent. While ECB officials have signaled they will keep
increasing borrowing costs to curb price pressures as the euro
region’s economy strengthens, peripheral nations such as Greece,
Portugal and Ireland remain mired in a sovereign debt crisis.  “Going forward, inflationary pressure could turn out to be
stronger than expected,” said  Joerg Lueschow , an economist at
WestLB AG in Dusseldorf. “Expectations are pointing upward and
that’s a reason for concern.”  German non-harmonized inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent
from 2.1 percent in March, with consumer prices rising 0.2
percent from the previous month.  ‘Noticeable Clouding-Over’  Euro-area inflation probably accelerated to 2.7 percent
this month from 2.6 percent in March, according to the median of
34 economist forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. That report is due
from the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg on
April 29.  Investor expectations for two more quarter-point increases
in the ECB’s benchmark rate this year, taking it to 1.75
percent, are “well founded,” council member Ewald Nowotny said
in  Washington  on April 16.  “We’re seeing a noticeable clouding-over of the price
outlook, in Germany more so than in the euro region,”
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said on April 15. Germany’s
inflation rate may exceed 3 percent “during some months of the
second half of the year,” he said.  The German economy may have expanded as much as 1 percent
in the first three months of the year and it will probably
maintain its growth momentum in the current quarter, the
Bundesbank said on April 18. The German government predicts
growth of 2.6 percent this year after a record 3.6 percent
expansion in 2010.  Factory orders and industrial production jumped more than
economists expected in February and unemployment fell for the
21st straight month in March, pushing the jobless rate to 7.1
percent, the lowest since June 1992.  Still,  consumer confidence  will decline for a second month
in May as households grapple with higher prices, according to
market research company GfK AG. Business confidence eased for a
second month in April after reaching a record high in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  