-- 
Glaxo First-Quarter Net Rises on Gain From Quest Stake Sale; Revenue Falls

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-04-27T15:41:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/glaxosmithkline-first-quarter-earnings-per-share-surpass-analyst-estimates.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the U.K.’s
biggest drugmaker, reported a 14 percent increase in first-
quarter profit, helped by a gain from the sale of its stake in
Quest Diagnostics Inc.  Net income rose to 1.53 billion pounds ($2.53 billion) from
1.34 billion pounds in a year earlier, London-based Glaxo said
in a statement today. Earnings excluding reorganization costs
totaled 32.2 pence a share. Analysts predicted a profit of 31.6
pence a share on that basis, according to the average of 12
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit increased even as the Valtrex antiviral drug faced
generic competition and Glaxo lost influenza-related sales after
the end of the flu pandemic in August. Revenue from the Avandia
diabetes medicine plunged after Glaxo stopped promoting it
worldwide because of an increased risk of heart attacks.  “They had a tough quarter, with quite a few headwinds, but
revenue growth in emerging markets,  Japan , consumer health care
was very nice,” Navid Malik, a drug-industry analyst at Matrix
Corporate Capital in  London , said today in a phone interview.
“We will be seeing better EPS growth going forward this year.”  Glaxo rose 26 pence, or 2.1 percent, to 1,286.5 in London
trading. The stock has returned 12 percent in the past year
including reinvested dividends, compared with an 8.9 percent
return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Revenue Drops  Glaxo disposed of its stake in Quest in February,
generating a profit of 246 million pounds after tax in the
quarter. The drugmaker also sold its U.S. and Canadian rights to
the Zovirax cream against herpes to Mississauga, Ontario-based
Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc.  Revenue fell 10 percent to 6.59 billion pounds, in line
with the average analyst estimate of 6.6 billion pounds.  Sales of pandemic-related products, Valtrex and Avandia
plunged to 140 million pounds from 1.13 billion pounds a year
earlier, the company said. Excluding those medicines, overall
sales rose 4 percent in the quarter.  “GSK is making good progress against our strategic
priorities and we had a very positive start to the year this
year,” Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  said on a
conference call with reporters. “We are continuing to see good
underlying sales growth momentum, driven by growth from a broad
range of businesses that we’ve been investing in in the last
three years.”  Consumer Health-Care  Consumer health-care sales rose 7 percent to 1.32 billion
pounds, led by products such as Sensodyne toothpaste.
Pharmaceutical sales in emerging markets grew 23 percent to 830
million pounds. Revenue in Japan jumped 53 percent to 465
million pounds, helped by the Cervarix cervical-cancer shot.  Total vaccine sales, excluding pandemic products, climbed 5
percent to 753 million pounds.  Revenue from pandemic-flu products sank 98 percent to 14
million pounds. The Valtrex antiviral drug, which has faced
competition from generic versions since November 2009, recorded
a 49 percent drop in sales to 90 million pounds. Avandia sales
tumbled 79 percent to 36 million pounds in the quarter.  “Given the generic washout is now broadly complete and
Avandia sales are declining, we now see a stable baseline from
which GSK can grow its revenues,” Matrix’s Malik wrote in a
note to clients yesterday. He recommends buying Glaxo stock.  Benlysta’s U.S. Prospects  Three Glaxo products have been approved this year,
including Benlysta, a therapy for the auto-immune disease lupus
that was approved by U.S. regulators in March. “The initial
feedback we are getting from the marketplace in the  United
States  is very encouraging” for Benlysta, Witty said.  Since taking the helm of the company in 2008, Witty has
been reorganizing Glaxo’s research and development, building up
its vaccines, emerging-market and consumer health-care
businesses and selling assets that aren’t related to its main
operations. He has avoided large acquisitions, focusing on
smaller to medium-sized deals such as the $2.9 billion purchase
in 2009 of closely held U.S. drugmaker Stiefel Laboratories Inc.  “The disposal of non-core assets is enabling us to release
value for the business,” Witty told reporters today. Glaxo
continues to look for “bolt-on acquisitions” to further expand
in consumer health care, emerging markets and vaccines, he said.  “We may do some” such deals, “but I wouldn’t expect to
do too much,” Witty said. There are “relatively few and pretty
difficult to find” candidates that would make sense for Glaxo
to buy at acceptable prices, he told reporters. The company has
“zero interest in very big transactions.”  Share Buyback  Glaxo in February announced its first share buyback since
2008 in a bid to reassure investors that expenses for
investigations and lawsuits are under control.  The company posted a loss in the fourth quarter last year
because of legal costs tied to a U.S. investigation into sales
practices, as well as product-liability cases related to
Avandia. Glaxo said today that it’s responding to a subpoena
from the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services Office of
Inspector General regarding the marketing and promotion of the
Lovaza treatment for  heart disease .  The level of legal provisioning is “sufficient for what we
believe to be our liabilities,” Witty said. He declined to
comment on the U.S. subpoena beyond saying the company will
“dig into” what led to it.  Stock buybacks this year will be at the “top end” of the
1 billion pounds to 2 billion pounds that the company announced
in February, Glaxo said. The drugmaker raised its first-quarter
dividend 7 percent to 16 pence a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  