-- 
Goldman’s Kwon Sees Inflation Risk for South Korean Economy

-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-04-27T03:48:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/goldman-s-kwon-sees-inflation-risk-for-south-korean-economy.html
Goohoon Kwon, a Seoul-based
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., comments on South Korean
gross domestic product data. He spoke on Bloomberg Television.  South  Korea ’s economic growth accelerated in the first
quarter, with gross domestic product rising 1.4 percent from the
previous quarter, when it advanced 0.5 percent, the  Bank of
Korea  said in  Seoul  today.  On growth:  “On a year-on-year basis, 4.2 percent is quite a strong
number, especially given that U.S. growth was pretty slow in the
first quarter and there was concern about Chinese tightening. I
have to say that this is a good number.”  “We continue to believe the macro risk for Korea still
remains more on inflation than economic growth, especially given
that we expect acceleration in the U.S. recovery in the second
half of this year and also we think Chinese tightening will be
easing in the second half.”  “I think growth will probably stay strong or even
accelerate while inflation risk will be on the upside. So I
think this number will reinforce some of the hawkish members in
the monetary policy committee that interest rate hikes should
stay on course, step by step.”  “We think the BOK is likely to raise three times from now
on rather than two times.”  On the Korean won:  “We have been taking a view that the Korean won should
strengthen about nine to 10 percent this year.”  “We expect the Korean won to strengthen further from 1,080
down to 1,050 within three months, and by autumn this year, we
expect 1,030, which will still make Korean exporters competitive,
given growth rate changes and inflation differentials.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  