-- 
Orchard Brands Unit Sues Golden Gate Over $310 Million Dividend Payment

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-04-27T23:55:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/golden-gate-sued-by-orchard-brands-unit-over-fraudulent-payment.html
Golden Gate  Capital Corp.
affiliates were sued by a unit of Orchard Brands Corp., which
claims its bankruptcy was caused in part by a fraudulent
$310 million special-dividend payment.  The trustee for the litigation trust of Appleseed’s
Intermediate Holdings LLC, a unit of Orchard Brands, sued Golden
Gate and certain directors, arguing the 2007 leveraged buyout of
Blair Corp., an Appleseed’s unit, and a simultaneous dividend
payment left the company insolvent with a debt load that would
eventually force it into bankruptcy.  Golden Gate “used their leveraged buyout of Blair
Corporation to saddle” Appleseed’s “with more than half a
billion dollars of new secured debt,” lawyers for the trustee
said in the complaint filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy court  in
Wilmington, Delaware.  By loading the company up with debt and “then
simultaneously draining the loan proceeds to pay dividends to
themselves,” the private equity firm rendered the company
insolvent and “on a collision course with bankruptcy” without
receiving “reasonably equivalent value in return for the
payments,” the lawyers said in court papers.  Barry O’Sullivan, an outside spokesman for Golden Gate with
Coltrin & Associates, wasn’t immediately able to respond to an
e-mail seeking comment.  2005 Acquisition  Golden Gate, a San Francisco-based private-equity firm that
manages about $9 billion in capital, acquired Orchard Brands in
2005, court papers show. Orchard Brands, a holding company that
held Appleseed’s equity, was sued for failing to fulfill its
legal obligation to act in the best interests of Appleseed’s.  The clothing retailer, whose products target customers aged
55 and older, listed as much $1 billion in debt and as much as
$500 million in assets in Chapter 11 documents. The company had
about $725 million in funded debt.  The company sells clothing and home products to women and
men under 17 brands such as Gold Violin, Haband and  Norm
Thompson . The Beverly, Massachusetts-based company also operates
stores under its Appleseed’s and Draper’s & Damon’s brands.  The litigation trust was set up in accordance with
Appleseed’s reorganization plan that won court approval earlier
this month.  Appleseed’s restructuring plan eliminated more than $400
million in debt by swapping lenders claims for the reorganized
company’s equity and new debt, according to court documents.  The case is In re Appleseed’s Intermediate Holdings LLC,
11-10160, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington). The lawsuit is In re Michaelson, as Trustee of the
Appleseed’s Lit v. Golden Gate Private Equity Inc., 11-51847,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  