-- 
Google, Apple Invited to Testify at Senate Hearing on Mobile-Phone Privacy

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-04-27T17:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/google-apple-invited-to-testify-at-senate-privacy-hearings.html
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman
Patrick Leahy invited  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to testify on
May 10 at a hearing on privacy and mobile telephones.  Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, sent invitations to Google Chief
Executive Officer  Larry Page  and Apple CEO  Steve Jobs , urging
the companies to testify about how they are addressing privacy
concerns raised by Google’s Android mobile phone software and
Apple’s iPhone.  “Like many Americans, I read with deep concern recent
press reports indicating that” the devices “collect, store and
track user location data without the user’s consent,” Leahy
said in letters to the two men. “As Congress considers updates
to the Electronic Communications Privacy Act and other federal
privacy laws, it is essential that the Senate Judiciary
Committee have full and accurate information about the privacy
risks posed by this new technology.”  Apple and Google are facing scrutiny from consumers and
lawmakers over the collection of data on smart phones. Earlier
today, Apple said it isn’t tracking users’ locations and plans
to reduce the amount of data stored by iPhones.  Ready to Explain  Google said it is willing to explain to lawmakers how it
protects people’s privacy on mobile devices.  “We provide users with notice and control over the
collection, sharing and use of location” on Androids, Google
spokesman Chris Gaither said in an e-mail. “Any location data
that is sent back to Google location servers is anonymized and
is not tied or traceable to a specific user.”  Leahy, a sponsor of the 1986 Electronic Communications
Privacy Act, is leading congressional efforts to update the law
and held a hearing on it April 6.  “There is tremendous collection of locational data and the
ability to pinpoint users in real time,” said  Marc Rotenberg ,
executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center,
a Washington-based advocacy group, in an interview today on
Bloomberg Television. “It can be a great thing if you want a
restaurant recommendation, or it can be an important thing if
you are in an emergency situation and need to call 911. But then
there are questions about what happens when it’s just being
stored on the device. Does that create a privacy risk for the
user?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net 
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 