-- 
Wheat Falls as Rains May Bolster U.S., Europe Crop Outlook; Corn, Soy Drop

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-04-27T20:18:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/grains-soybeans-decline-on-concern-fed-may-ease-stimulus-curbing-demand.html
Wheat futures tumbled the most in
two weeks after rains in the U.S. Great Plains and  Europe 
improved crop prospects. Corn and soybeans also dropped.  Parts of southwest Kansas, the biggest U.S. winter-wheat
grower, and northern Oklahoma received an inch (2.5 centimeters)
of rain last night, according to a Commodity Weather Group
report. France and southern Germany may get up to 2 inches of
rain in the next week, after some showers yesterday, according
to AccuWeather Inc.  “It helps that they had a little rain in the western dry
areas” of the U.S., said  Roy Huckabay , an executive vice
president for the Linn Group in Chicago. In Europe, “the rain
was more widespread than some people thought, and the forecasts
are maybe showing some improvement and more widespread
coverage.”  Wheat futures for July delivery plunged 35 cents, or 4.1
percent, to settle at $8.12 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago 
Board of Trade, capping the biggest drop since April 12. Prices
are still up 66 percent in the past year.  Grains and soybeans also declined on speculation that
commodity demand will slump amid slowing global growth. The
Federal Reserve today reduced its 2011 outlook for the  U.S.
economy . China is increasing  capital requirements  on some banks
after raising borrowing costs four times since October to slow
inflation.  ‘Liquidation’  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  held a press conference today
at 2:15 p.m. in Washington after the central bank said it would
maintain record-low U.S. borrowing costs to spur expansion.  “Bernanke speaking right on the close of grain trading
created a lot of liquidation,” said  Charlie Sernatinger , a vice
president at ABN Amro Clearing LLC in Chicago.  Corn futures for July delivery slid 13.5 cents, or 1.7
percent, to settle at $7.5925 a bushel in Chicago, the first
decline in four sessions. Prices have more than doubled in the
past year.  Soybean futures for July delivery fell 4.75 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $13.845 on the CBOT. The commodity is up 39 percent
in the past year.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government figures
show. Wheat ranked fourth at $13 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  