-- 
Greek Yield Surge a ‘No Confidence’ Vote, SocGen's Juckes Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-04-27T15:20:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/greek-yield-surge-a-no-confidence-vote-socgen-s-juckes-says-tom-keene.html
Record Greek debt yields indicate
there’s no private investor demand for the bonds of the first
European nation to tap European Union and International Monetary
Fund aid, according to  Societe Generale ’s Kit Juckes.  “If the government had to come in and borrow money for
two, three, four or five years off savers, it would really
struggle to do so at this stage,” said Juckes, head of currency
research at Societe Generale in  London  in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “The solution for
this is more support within  Europe  -- so another bailout package
-- so they don’t have to borrow money off the market, or a
change that makes the fear of restructuring go away. The market
is saying it has no confidence.”  Greek two-year yields surged almost two percentage points
to as high as 25.95 percent, rising above 25 percent for the
first time ever. Ten-year yields soared as much as 1.01
percentage points to 16.34 percent, reaching euro-era highs for
a ninth consecutive day.  The government has said that it won’t have to renege on its
debt after receiving a 110 billion-euro ($159 billion) bailout
last year from the European Union and the IMF.  The nation isn’t considering a restructuring, a Finance
Ministry press officer in  Athens  said today by e-mail. “Nothing
has changed,” said the press officer, who cited government
policy in asking not to be identified.  “Businesses can get a hold of money at better rates than
the Greek government can at this point in time,” Juckes said.
“So they aren’t facing quite as much of a hit, but there is a
feed-through, and it doesn’t help.”  Irish and Portuguese bonds all slumped today, and the cost
of insuring debt sold by  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  rose to
records, according to traders of credit-default swaps. Contracts
on Greece jumped 21 basis points, or 0.21 percentage point, to
1,376 basis points, according to CMA. Contracts on Irish debt
added 11 basis points to 685, while Portuguese swaps climbed
seven basis points to 688.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  