-- 
Miami International to Introduce 10th U.S. Options Exchange

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-04-27T22:22:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/miami-international-to-introduce-10th-u-s-options-exchange-1-.html
Miami International Holdings Inc.
plans to open a U.S. options exchange that would be the 10th in
the nation, a company executive said.  The Miami  International Securities Exchange  is expected to
begin trading in the second quarter of 2012, Shelly Brown, the
Princeton, New Jersey-based company’s senior vice president for
strategic planning and operations, said today. The official
exchange filing will be submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission within three months, he said.  “It shows the growth of the options industry,” said David
Mortimer, managing director for equity options at New York-based
Pipeline Trading Systems LLC. “Exchanges are economic entities
and I don’t think they’d be starting one if they didn’t think
there was a need.”  Competition in the options industry has increased as annual
volume reached record levels in each of the last eight years.
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  had the largest share of options trading
between its two venues last month, with almost 27 percent of
volume, while the  Chicago Board Options Exchange  is the largest
individual market. Its share of options trading was almost 26
percent. Nasdaq OMX and IntercontinentalExchange Inc. are
seeking to break up NYSE Euronext’s plan to combine with
Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse  AG, announced in February.  ‘Room to Compete’  “When and if a NYSE deal closes with Deutsche Boerse,
there will be five U.S. exchange owners,” Brown said in an
interview at a Capital Markets Consortium conference in New
York. “We believe there’s room to compete in this marketplace
because we are coming out with superior technology. We don’t
have that legacy system and we are starting from scratch.”  Miami International Holdings has more than 20 employees and
offices in Princeton and Miami, said Brown, who joined the firm
earlier this month. He previously worked for Chicago-based PEAK6
Corp., Nasdaq OMX and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, which
Nasdaq OMX acquired in 2008 for $652 million.  “The challenge for a new entrant is to become relevant as
quickly as possible and attract order flow,” said  Andy Nybo , a
principal and head of derivatives at New York-based Tabb Group
LLC. “In order to succeed they need to bring a better mousetrap
to the industry by providing the technology and functionality to
support the evolving options market structure.”  Brown said the new exchange operator may introduce an
equities exchange after it begins trading options on stocks and
exchange-traded funds.  “We started with the most difficult product, which is
options,” Brown said. “To scale it back to any other tradable
asset class, whether equities or futures, will be simpler than
going the other way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  