-- 
Tibetans Elect Harvard Law Scholar to Head Dalai Lama’s Exile Government

-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-04-27T07:12:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/tibetans-elect-harvard-law-scholar-to-head-dalai-lama-s-exile-government.html
A Harvard University law scholar
has been elected prime minister of the  Dalai Lama ’s Tibetan
exile government, which demands autonomy for Tibet under Chinese
rule.  Lobsang Sangay, 43, won a March 20 election among the
130,000 Tibetans living outside  China  to head the  Central
Tibetan Administration  based in the Indian town of Dharamshala,
the administration’s election commission said at a press
conference there today. Sangay will inherit much of the
political leadership role that the Dalai Lama announced last
month he intends to relinquish.  Sangay won 55 percent of the vote, defeating two longtime
officials of the Tibetan exile administration, according to
results announced today by Chief Election Commissioner Jamphel
Choesang. More than 48,000 Tibetans around the world voted, a 50
percent increase over the previous prime ministerial election in
2006. The Himalayan state of  Nepal , where 14,000 exiles live
just south of Tibet, was criticized by the European Parliament
for refusing to allow voting under pressure from China.  By opting to focus on his spiritual leadership of the
estimated 3 million or more Buddhist Tibetans, the Dalai Lama,
75, will leave Sangay and the 46-member exile parliament to
handle a stalled, nine-year effort at dialogue with China.
“Sangay will face pressures because of frustration in the
Tibetan movement,” whose younger activists have pressed for a
more assertive campaign to seek Tibet’s outright independence,
Srikanth Kondapalli, a Chinese studies professor at Jawaharlal
Nehru University in New Delhi, said by phone.  China Talks  While “the  United States  and European Union, and to some
extent  India , are pressing both sides to talk to each other and
find an amicable solution,” a new round of talks with China is
not likely for several months as the new Tibetan leadership
defines its policy, Kondapalli said yesterday.  The elected exile government may also add to anxieties
among Chinese officials over pro-democracy pressures within the
country raised by the popular uprisings against authoritarian
governments in Arab countries such as Egypt and  Syria ,
Kondapalli said.  In pursuit of the Dalai Lama’s focus on non-violence,
“I’ll do my best to reach out to the Chinese government, to
have a dialogue to resolve the issue peacefully,” Sangay said
in  an interview  last month with radio station WBUR in  Boston .
Sangay said he will give up his Harvard post and move to
Dharamshala from his home in the Boston suburb of Medford to
take up the prime ministership at a salary of $400 a month.  Sichuan Monastery  Tibetans periodically have protested China’s rule since the
Chinese army invaded in the early 1950s. China has cracked down
on Tibetan dissent since the eruption in 2008 of the most
violent anti-Chinese protests in 20 years.  China accuses the Dalai Lama of spreading “anti-Chinese
propaganda” and secretly seeking independence for Tibet, which
forms about a quarter of China’s territory. In the two sides’
most recent talks, in January 2010, China rejected “a high
degree of autonomy” for  Tibet .  Tibetan monks and residents have confronted Chinese police
in an ethnic Tibetan region of Sichuan province since a Buddhist
monk immolated himself March 16 at the Kirti Monastery to
protest Chinese rule. Police sealed off the monastery and last
week detained about 300 monks, killing two people among
protesters who had gathered in their defense, the Central
Tibetan Administration  said in an April 23 statement .  Lama Rule  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei did not comment
on the reported killings, telling journalists in a briefing
yesterday that the turmoil was caused by monks who have been
“damaging the normal, local social order” and “tarnishing the
image of Tibetan Buddhism.”  While Tibet’s Dalai Lamas historically ruled by decree, the
current lama, Tenzin Gyatso, has instituted the elected
government in exile, which poses a challenge to China’s
authoritarian system of rule. The inauguration of Sangay as a
secular prime minister to replace Samdhong Rinpoche, a Buddhist
monk, will shift the Tibetan movement a further step away from
religious governance, a move the Dalai Lama has publicly
supported.  In announcing the handover of political authority to
elected leaders last month, the Dalai Lama “is preparing the
Tibetan people for a future beyond his lifetime,” said Kate Saunders, spokeswoman for the Washington-based  International
Campaign for Tibet , which helps represent the Dalai Lama
overseas.  Mineral Reserves  Tibetans regard the Dalai Lamas as reincarnations of an
ancient spiritual being, meaning that a succession between them
can take many years as senior monks designate and educate a
young child as the new leader.  China says it is spending heavily to develop Tibet’s
economy, while activists such as Sangay say Tibetans suffer from
rapid urbanization and get few benefits of economic growth.  The China Geological Survey said Feb. 24 that Tibet has the
nation’s biggest reserves of chromium, copper, and salt lake
lithium amid total mineral deposits valued at more than $152
billion, the official Xinhua News Agency reported. China’s
Tibetan authorities say mining could contribute more than 30
percent of Tibet’s gross domestic product by 2020, compared with
3 percent now, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  