-- 
Michael Vick’s Fans May Land Him Madden NFL Video Game Cover in First Vote

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-27T13:33:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/michael-vick-s-fans-may-land-him-madden-nfl-video-game-cover-in-first-vote.html
Michael Vick’s fans may give him
the marketing opportunity that major companies haven’t since the
 Philadelphia Eagles ’ quarterback pleaded guilty to dogfighting
charges in 2007.  Vick will find out today whether he has been chosen as the
cover athlete for the latest version of  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) ’s
Madden NFL series, the world’s best-selling sports video game.
One of 32 candidates for the honor, Vick is up against Peyton Hillis of the  Cleveland Browns  in the final round of voting.  Vick has sought to restore his public image since the dog
fighting case that led to a federal prison term, forced him to
miss two National Football League seasons and cost him
sponsorships with companies including Nike Inc., the world’s
largest athletic shoemaker. Vick was voted the NFL’s Comeback
Player of the Year with the Eagles in 2010.  “The fan vote has given him a chance that he probably
could not have gotten anywhere else,” Steve Rosner, co-founder
of Rutherford, New Jersey-based  16W Marketing LLC , said in a
telephone interview. “We’ve seen a few minor endorsement
opportunities in the last six months, but I can’t see people in
the board room thinking about  Michael Vick  being their spokesman
for any product at this point.”  Vick would be the first two-time cover athlete in the 22
years of the Madden NFL series. He was on the front of the 2004
version, while playing with the Atlanta Falcons.  Marketing Campaign  Anthony Stevenson, a senior product manager for EA Sports,
said the company has little concern about potentially having
Vick as its most visible NFL player and using him in national
marketing campaigns.  “There is certainly no shortage of opinion on Mike
personally, but when it comes to Madden football, we’re about
on-field performance,” Stevenson said in a telephone interview
from his Orlando, Florida, office. “So when it’s up to fans and
they’re voting not only for him to start in the Pro Bowl but
also to advance to the finals of this cover vote, it’s hard for
us to think it’s a bad thing.”  Last year’s version of Madden sold over 5 million copies in
the U.S., according to the NPD Group, a Port  Washington , New
York-based market research firm. EA doesn’t release dollar
figures but said more than 90 million copies of the Madden games
have been sold since starting in 1989.  This is the first time fans have had full control over the
Madden NFL cover athlete. The voting campaign began last month
as part of a strategy by  Redwood City , California-based EA to
combat negative fan sentiment caused by the NFL labor dispute.  “In looking at the situation, we said, ‘Let’s give them
something fun to talk about,’” Stevenson said. “That gives us
a platform to let our fans know it doesn’t matter what happens
with the NFL season, there will be a Madden NFL 12.”  Tournament  The contest was held like a  single-elimination tournament ,
with players going head-to-head in each round similar to the
national college basketball tournament.  Vick reached the finals as a No. 3 seed in his half of the
draw by  beating  DeMarcus Ware of the  Dallas Cowboys , Andre Johnson of the  Houston Texans , Patrick Willis of the  San
Francisco 49ers  and Adrian Peterson of the  Minnesota Vikings .
Philip Rivers of the  San Diego Chargers  was the top seed in that
half, with Hines Ward of the Pittsburgh Steelers No. 2.  Vick has lobbied for fan support via his Twitter and
Facebook pages. He told the  Philadelphia Inquirer  that he’s more
excited about possibly being on the cover of Madden NFL 12 than
having his picture on the side of the stadium at the Eagles’
Lincoln Financial Field.  “It’s global,” Vick told the newspaper about the
videogame. “Everyone plays it. It’s a game you look forward to
playing every year.”  Upset Run  Hillis, the No. 10 seed in his half, advanced with a series
of upsets. The Browns’ running back topped Ray Rice of the
 Baltimore Ravens , Matt Ryan of the  Atlanta Falcons , Jamaal Charles of the  Kansas City Chiefs  and top-seeded  Aaron Rodgers ,
quarterback of the  Super Bowl  champion  Green Bay Packers . The
Browns have a link to the Madden vote on their website.  “Hillis is the ultimate underdog story and has the entire
city of  Cleveland  treating this as though this is their Super
Bowl,” Stevenson said. “They’re saying, ‘We lost LeBron
(James) and the Indians haven’t won the  World Series  in (62)
years. We have control here and we’re not letting go.’”  Although the cover winner wouldn’t have an official
endorsement contract with EA Sports, Vick or Hillis would
receive compensation for publicity appearances, Stevenson said,
declining to provide specifics. All NFL players receive a share
of sales revenue for use of their likeness in the game.  Sponsorship Restart  Vick picked up two minor sponsorships this year: for thigh
pads he uses and for a titanium-infused silicone wristband.
Other companies have been reluctant to align with such a
polarizing player, Rosner said, so the cover role would be a
coup for Vick, putting him on store shelves and in television
cabinets across the U.S.  While some fans -- especially animal lovers -- might not
buy a game with Vick on the cover, Rosner said, there would
probably be a “relatively minor” impact on EA’s sales.  “I imagine a good portion of their sales are from
dedicated gamers,” Rosner said. “Vick seems to be on the right
track of trying to make his image much more positive than it was
a year ago. I give him kudos for that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  