-- 
Mideast Popular Revolts Show Need to Create Jobs, Shield Poor, IMF Says

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-04-27T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/middle-east-revolts-show-need-to-create-employment-shield-poor-imf-says.html
Political turmoil in the Middle
East shows that the growth-oriented policies pursued by
countries such as  Tunisia  and Egypt failed to meet the needs of
their populations, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “The unfolding events make it clear that reforms, and even
rapid economic growth as seen periodically in Tunisia and Egypt,
cannot be sustained unless they create jobs for the rapidly
growing labor force and are accompanied by social policies for
the most vulnerable,” the Washington-based IMF said in its
Regional Economic Outlook for the region, published today.  Unrest in the region that holds more than half the world’s
oil began with protests in Tunisia against high unemployment and
political repression, which forced President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali from power in January. It spread to  Egypt , where Hosni Mubarak was toppled in February, and other countries including
Libya, Yemen and Bahrain.  The ousted rulers of Egypt and Tunisia carried out policies
that were praised by the IMF and World Bank, and spurred growth.
Egypt’s government, starting in 2004, sold public companies and
reduced subsidies to cut the  budget deficit . Economic growth
accelerated to 7.2 percent in 2008 from 4.1 percent in 2004.  The same policies, though, were among the targets of the
protesters who drove Mubarak and Ben Ali from power. Opposition
groups argued that growth didn’t create enough jobs or improve
living standards for most people. They said the sale of state-
owned companies and encouragement of foreign investment
benefited regime cronies and elites, while subsidy reductions
would hurt the poor.  Seeking IMF Loan  Egypt has signaled it will seek as much as $4 billion in
loans from the fund for the current fiscal year, ending in June,
and the next one. Samir Radwan, the finance minister, said last
week that Egypt will also seek about $2.2 billion from the  World
Bank . IMF loans are typically tied to the recipient government
carrying out agreed policies.  Other countries to experience slowdowns in growth will
include Lebanon, which has had no government since the cabinet
of Prime Minister Saad Hariri collapsed Jan. 12, and  Pakistan ,
grappling with the spillover from the war in neighboring
 Afghanistan  and with domestic Islamic extremists, the IMF said.
It forecast that Lebanon’s growth will slow to 2.5 percent from
7.5 percent last year, and Pakistan’s to 2.8 percent from 4.8
percent in 2010.  Growth in the Gulf Cooperation Council, which includes
 Saudi Arabia  and the United Arab Emirates among its six members,
will accelerate to 7.8 percent this year as oil prices increase
and production rises “in the face of supply disruptions
elsewhere,” the IMF predicted.  Higher inflation rates caused by rising food and fuel
prices will require the region’s central banks “to pay greater
attention to headline inflation,” while increasing sovereign
risk premiums may also push  interest rates  up, the fund said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  