-- 
Sathya Sai Baba Buried in Puttaparthi with Full State Honors

-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 
2011-04-27T05:28:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/indian-spiritual-guru-who-claimed-10-million-followers-buried.html
Sathya Sai Baba, a spiritual guru
who claimed to have 10 million followers worldwide including
leading Indian politicians, cricketers and film stars, was
buried with full state honors today in the town of his birth.  Tens of thousands of devotees gathered outside the Sai
Kulwant Hall in Puttaparthi where Sai Baba’s body had been laid
for public viewing inside a glass casket since he died on April
24 aged 84. The saffron-robed leader’s funeral, broadcast live
on all major television news networks, began at 9.30 a.m. as
priests chanted prayers and a 21-gun salute sounded. His burial
took place in private behind a red curtain.  At the age of 14, the guru told his family that he would be
known as “Sai Baba,” the title of a past  Indian  ascetic of
whom he claimed to be a reincarnation, according to a  statement 
on his website. In 1960, Sai Baba, known for his mass of frizzy
hair and claims of healing powers and miracles, told his
followers he would “leave his body” in 2019.  Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  and  Sonia Gandhi ,
chief of the ruling Congress party, paid their tributes to Sai
Baba yesterday in the south Indian town. Cricket star Sachin Tendulkar said an emotional farewell April 25 at the ashram.
While Hindus generally cremate their dead, infants and people
considered saints are buried.  The guru used his charities to set up schools, universities
and hospitals with the support of political leaders, several of
whom were present at today’s service alongside representatives
of all  India ’s faiths.  ‘Inner Light’  While devotees believed in his ability to produce holy ash,
rings and necklaces, fruits, sugar candy and watches out of thin
air, Sai Baba “shied away from scientific tests that would have
settled forever the issue of their genuineness,” said Erlendur
Haraldsso, professor emeritus, faculty of social sciences at the
 University of Iceland , who did research on Indian “miracle-
makers.”  “Spiritualism is beyond any artificial religious
constructs,” said  B. Indira,  associate professor in the
Department of Humanities and Social Sciences at southern India’s
Andhra University. “He enabled people to go beyond all these
manmade constructs to feel the inner light.”  Sai Baba built an empire valued at 400 billion rupees ($9
billion) and died without naming an heir, The Economic Times
 newspaper  reported.  The state government of  Andhra Pradesh  “has nothing to do
with” Sai Baba’s trust, Geeta Reddy, minister for major
industries, said in a phone interview from Puttaparthi. “Baba
has taken care of everything and the government is not involved
in finding a successor.”  The trustees have been chosen and appointed by Sai Baba and
they do not receive salaries, according to a  statement  on the
Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust’s website. The trust denied reports
of a battle for succession saying it was “meant to damage the
fair name of the sacred institution.”  Hard Rock Café founder Isaac Tigrett sold his stake in the
 restaurant chain  and donated the entire proceeds of $108 million
to Sai Baba for a hospital in Puttaparthi that would provide
free healthcare to the rural poor, the Open magazine reported in
April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jay Shankar in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  