-- 
India Bond Yields at This Week’s Low as Liquidity Spurs Demand

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-04-27T12:30:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/india-bond-yields-at-this-week-s-low-as-liquidity-spurs-demand.html
India ’s bond yields held at this
week’s low on speculation an improved availability of cash at
banks will spur demand for debt.  Lenders parked an average of 74 billion rupees ($1.7
billion) in surplus cash with the central bank this month
compared with daily borrowing of 820 billion rupees in March,
Reserve Bank data show. Demand for existing notes is probably
strengthening as there are no scheduled federal government debt
sales this week, said A.Y. Shedshale, a Mumbai-based deputy
general manager in charge of fixed-income at Bank of
Maharashtra.  “The liquidity has stayed comfortable and that is positive
for bonds,” Shedshale said.  The yield on the 7.80 percent note due April 2021, the
most-traded government security, was little changed at 8.09
percent as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the
central bank’s trading system. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  The government has a 4.17 trillion rupees borrowing target
for the fiscal year that began on April 1. It has sold 360
billion rupees of notes this month. The  finance ministry  is
scheduled to auction 120 billion rupees of debt in the week
starting May 2, according to the central bank’s calendar.  The  Reserve Bank  of India may increase borrowing costs by
25 basis points to 7 percent at its policy review on May 3,
according to 15 of the 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Three economists forecast a 50 basis point increase.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
declined four basis points to 7.79 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  