-- 
Indian Stocks Swing Between Gains, Losses; Wipro Shares Decline

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-04-27T07:22:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/indian-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-wipro-shares-decline.html
Indian stocks swung between gains
and losses. Oil & Natural Gas Corp. climbed after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. recommended investors buy the stock, while  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) 
dropped after its earnings report.  Oil & Natural Gas, the largest state-owned oil explorer,
advanced to the highest since January after Goldman Sachs added
the company to its Asia Pacific “conviction buy” list. Wipro,
the third-biggest software services provider, sank 2.8 percent
after forecasting sales at its largest business division will be
little changed.  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  paced gains among
automakers as a drop in  oil prices  eased concerns the central
bank will have to take stiffer measures to curb rising prices.  “Declining oil prices are giving some comfort,” said Alex Mathews, head of research at Geojit BNP Paribas Financial
Services Ltd. in Kochi. “The market may be volatile today as
tomorrow is the expiry of derivatives contracts. Also, Wipro
results have disappointed.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, was
little changed at 19,554.43 as of 11:41 a.m. in Mumbai. The
gauge swung between gains and losses at least eight times as 16
shares dropped and 14 fell on the 30-member index. The S&P CNX
Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange was little changed at
5,866.45 and its April futures traded at 5,872.6. The BSE 200
Index added 0.1 percent to 2,415.14.  Oil &  Natural Gas  rose 1.9 percent to 309.5 rupees, heading
for its highest close since Jan. 5. Goldman Sachs increased its
share-price forecast for ONGC, which was previously rated
“neutral,” to 360 rupees from 325 rupees, analysts led by
Nilesh Banerjee wrote in a report.  ‘Poor Guidance’  Wipro slumped 2.8 percent to 451.75 rupees, set for its
steepest drop since April 15. Its April futures traded at 447.5
rupees. Revenue at the company’s information-technology unit
biggest business division will range between $1.39 billion and
$1.42 billion in the current quarter, Wipro said today. Sales at
the unit in the three months ended March were $1.4 billion.  “This is a very poor guidance,” said Pralay Kumar Das, an
analyst with Elara Securities  India  Pvt. in Mumbai. “The only
way the stock could have gone up was if they had guided about 3
percent to 4 percent growth.” He rates the shares a “sell.”  The Sensex has fallen 4.7 percent this year on concern
faster inflation will cause borrowing costs to rise, crimping
growth in corporate earnings. Sensex stocks trade at an average
15.5 times estimated profit, down from 21.5 times in March 2010.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is valued at 11.8 times.  Earnings growth either trailed year-earlier levels or
missed analysts’ estimates for seven of the nine companies in
the Sensex that have reported results since April 15, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Higher Borrowing Costs  The cost to borrow for Indian companies is approaching the
highest level since 2008 after firms led by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani  said profit growth slowed and economists boosted their
interest-rate forecasts.  The amount top-rated companies must pay to borrow for three
years relative to government debt has climbed 12 basis points to
161 basis points since April 15, when  Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO) 
reported earnings that missed analysts’ estimates. Reliance
Industries Ltd., the nation’s most valuable firm led by Ambani,
and Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., the biggest carmaker, said net
income rose at a slower pace in the three months ended March
compared with a year earlier.  The  Reserve Bank  of India has raised  interest rates  eight
times since early 2010 to curb gains in the nation’s benchmark
inflation rate, which has exceeded the central bank’s forecast
of 8 percent every month this year, according to data from the
commerce ministry. The Reserve Bank’s next policy announcement
is due on May 3.  Oil Prices  A 36 percent climb in oil in the past year has contributed
to inflation in India, which imports about 75 percent of its
annual energy needs. Crude futures in  New York  sank to the
lowest level since April 20 yesterday and were little changed in
after-hours trading.  Mahindra, the nation’s largest maker of sport-utility
vehicles, rallied 2.1 percent to 772.35 rupees, poised for its
highest close since Jan. 24. Its April futures traded at 772.75
rupees. Hero Honda Motors Ltd., the nation’s biggest motorcycle
maker, gained 0.7 percent to 1,783 rupees.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  added 2.1 percent to 1,329.3
rupees. The company will reduce its dependence on  Japan  for auto
parts by sourcing components from other countries, the Business
Standard reported. The move could reduce the cost of production
by 5 percent to 10 percent, the report said. Maruti’s Chief
Financial Officer Ajay Seth was unavailable for comment when
called on his mobile phone.  Overseas investors sold a net 12.7 billion rupees ($286
million) of Indian stocks on April 25, paring their investments
in equities this year to 56.1 billion rupees, according to data
on the  website  of the  Securities and Exchange Board of India .  India’s economic growth and corporate earnings lured
foreign investors to buy a record $29.4 billion of local
equities last year and made the Sensex the best performer and
most expensive among the world’s 10 biggest markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  