-- 
Indian Ocean's Waters May Fuel Atlantic’s Gulf Stream, Miami Study Shows

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-04-27T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/indian-ocean-s-waters-may-fuel-atlantic-s-gulf-stream-miami-study-shows.html
Waters “leaking” from the  Indian
Ocean  into the south Atlantic may counter a predicted slowdown
in the system of currents that includes the Gulf Stream and
warms Europe, scientists said.  The flow from the Indian Ocean’s Agulhas system into the
Atlantic may be increasing by 1.4 million to 4 million cubic
meters of water per second every decade, researchers led by Lisa
Beal at the  University of Miami  said in  Nature . The water then
joins the Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation that
includes the Gulf Stream, they said today in the journal.  The UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate Change , or
IPCC, in 2007 said global warming is “ very likely ” to slow the
system of Atlantic currents that keeps western  Europe  relatively
warmer than other countries at the same latitude. Today’s study
indicates the UN may need to revise its models for future
climate change, according to the researchers.  “This could mean that current IPCC model predictions for
the next century are wrong and there will be no cooling in the
North Atlantic to partially offset the effects of global climate
change over  North America  and Europe,” Beal said in a
statement. “Instead, increasing Agulhas leakage could stabilize
the oceanic heat transport carried by the Atlantic overturning
circulation.”  The UN is preparing a new assessment of climate change that
is due to be published in 2014 and will take into account
research published since its last major study in 2007.  Under the UN’s scenario, higher temperatures and extra
precipitation resulting from climate change, as well as ice melt
in Greenland and other parts of the Arctic, will “very likely”
lead to a slowdown in the system of currents this century, the
panel found in 2007. At the same time, Europe would still get
warmer due to the greater effect on temperatures of rising
greenhouse-gas concentrations, it said.  Beal’s team urged more modeling and detailed observations
be taken to “establish firmly the role of the Agulhas system in
a warming climate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 