-- 
Indonesia Raises $2.5 Billion From Its First Dollar Bond Sale of This Year

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 
2011-04-28T05:41:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/indonesia-raises-2-5-billion-from-its-first-dollar-bond-sale-of-this-year.html
Indonesia  sold $2.5 billion of 10-
year dollar bonds after attracting bids for almost three times
that amount, tapping appetite for the assets of developing
economies that are poised to grow faster than advanced nations.  Southeast Asia’s largest economy sold the 4.875 percent
bonds due May 2021 at a yield of 5.1 percent yesterday, the
 finance ministry  said in a statement. Bids totaled $6.9 billion,
or 2.76 times the amount offered, it said.  Developing-nation debt offerings are off to a record start
this year after near-zero  interest rates  in the U.S. and  Japan 
and the  Federal Reserve ’s quantitative easing fueled the biggest
investor flows to emerging-market bonds on record in 2010, based
on data from EPFR Global. Issuance of international debt from
emerging markets climbed 10 percent this year to $265 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Indonesia had a budget deficit
of 0.6 percent of gross domestic product in 2010.  “I like the credit,” Lazlo Belgrado, a  fund manager  at
KBC Asset Management SA in Luxembourg, said in an interview
yesterday. Indonesia has “strong fundamentals. So for me this
is still a buy in emerging-market dollar debt,” he said.  The new bonds gained, with the yield falling to 4.984
percent as of 12:46 p.m. in Singapore, according to prices from
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The rupiah climbed 0.6 percent
to 8,579 per dollar.  The dollar bonds were sold at a spread of 175 basis points
above U.S. Treasuries, said a person familiar with the sale, who
asked not to be identified because he wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly on the matter.  Spread Narrowing  Indonesia last sold 10-year dollar bonds in January 2010 at
a yield premium over U.S. Treasuries of 228 basis points,
according to Bloomberg data. The spread has since narrowed to
164 basis points. Indonesia sold $2 billion of the debt, and
received orders for 2.3 times the amount on offer. The
Philippines sold $1.5 billion of 15-year dollar debt in March,
attracting $6.5 billion in bids.  In the latest sale, 49 percent of the securities were sold
in the U.S., 29 percent in  Asia  and the rest in  Europe , the
government said. Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS
AG were the lead arrangers for the sale. PT Danareksa Sekuritas
and PT Mandiri Sekuritas also helped sell the notes, the
government said.  “Indonesia is a country that a lot of people like,” said
Rajeev de Mello, who helps oversee $454 billion as head of Asian
investment in Singapore at Western Asset Management Co., the
Pasadena, California-based fixed-income unit of Legg Mason Inc.
“The total debt to GDP is low. There are not that many Asian
dollar-denominated bonds anymore in the sovereign space” that
will be issued this year, he said.  Rating Upgrade  Indonesia’s dollar debt of has returned 7.8 percent over
the past year, indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc show.
Indonesia is giving the third-best returns among the 11 Asian
nation indexes tracked after the  Philippines  and Thailand.  The country raised almost $3 billion from global bonds last
year, including $2 billion of dollar notes and 60 billion yen
($732 million) of samurai debt denominated in Japan’s currency.
The amount sold was lower than the $4 billion in 2009.  The country may issue dollar-denominated Islamic debt in
the second half, Dahlan Siamat, director of Islamic finance at
the Finance Ministry, said in an interview April 25.  Standard & Poor’s  boosted Indonesia’s sovereign credit
rating to BB+ this month with a positive outlook, while Moody’s
Investors Service raised its ranking to Ba1 on Jan. 17, citing
the nation’s “economic resilience” and improving debt position.
 Fitch Ratings  assessed Indonesia at BB+. All three  ratings
agencies  rank the country one level below investment grade.  Gross domestic product in emerging-market nations will
increase 6.5 percent this year, compared with 2.4 percent in
developed countries, according to forecasts made by the
 International Monetary Fund  on April 11. Indonesia’s growth may
accelerate to 6.2 percent in 2011 from an estimated 6.1 percent
last year, the IMF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  