-- 
Intel Server-Chip Sales Fueled by Mobile Data, CFO Says

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-04-28T20:04:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/intel-s-smith-says-mobile-explosion-brings-server-windfall.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest
chipmaker, will continue to benefit as the spread of mobile
devices fuels “explosive” growth for processors used in data
centers, Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith said.  “There’s a significant, maybe even an insatiable, demand
driver for more and more performance and computing power that’s
moving into the cloud,” Smith said in an interview yesterday.
“What gets lost is the explosive growth of all of these devices
connecting to the Internet is driving a $10 billion dollar
server business.”  Intel said demand for chips used in computers that provide
services and data over the Internet -- so-called cloud computing
-- won’t be short-lived. Increasing sales of mobile phones and
tablets are generating a need for data served up by Intel chips,
helping compensate for its failure to deliver processors that
handset makers want. Intel forecast second-quarter revenue that
may be about $1 billion more than analysts had estimated.  The company, which has been trying to convert its dominance
of the personal-computer market into orders from phone makers
for more than 10 years, will start to demonstrate progress later
this year, Smith said.  On April 19, Intel said second-quarter revenue will be
$12.8 billion, plus or minus $500 million, compared with the
$11.9 billion average, at the time, of analysts’ projections
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of  Santa Clara , California-based Intel have rallied
since then, gaining for five consecutive trading days. The stock
rose 17 cents to $22.80 at 4 p.m. New York time the Nasdaq Stock
Market.  Cloud Computing  Underlining the importance of new cloud-computing centers,
the companies that run them --  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Facebook Inc. and
Yahoo! Inc. -- have come to rival computer makers such as
International Business Machines Corp. among Intel’s largest
customers, Smith said. Google and Facebook typically build their
own servers with chips bought directly from Intel, he said.  Even as mobile devices fuel server-chip sales, Intel hasn’t
given up on getting its processors into the phones themselves.
While orders from mobile-phone makers won’t “change the
fundamental growth path of the company,” Intel needs to make
progress to prove it can make chips that can deliver performance
while working only off battery power, Smith said.  “You’re going to see us with phones in the marketplace
with Intel silicon in the not-too-distant future,” he said.
“The first one is likely to be game-changing for us from a
perception standpoint.”  While the company is open to delivering its own phone
designs and software to potential customers and even co-
branding, he said, Intel will concentrate on providing
components. No phone currently on sale is based on an Intel
processor.  Apple Inc. and other tablet and handset makers have chosen
rival designs from Qualcomm Inc. and Texas Instruments Inc.
using technology from ARM Holdings Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 