-- 
InterMune Said to Weigh Sale of Company, Work With Goldman

-- B y   S a s h a   D a m o u n i ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-04-27T18:28:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/intermune-said-to-weigh-sale-of-company-work-with-goldman-1-.html
InterMune Inc. (ITMN) , the only company
with an approved drug for a certain rare  lung disease , is
weighing a sale and working with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to
find a buyer, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Goldman has been running an auction process for InterMune
for at least a month, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private. Some potential buyers
are deterred by the company’s expectations on a sale price, and
there is no guarantee a takeover will occur, two people said.  The biotechnology company, whose shareholders include
private equity firm Warburg Pincus LLC, had a market value of
about $2.72 billion as of yesterday’s close. The stock advanced
$2.42, or 5.3 percent, to $48.47 at 2:10 p.m.  New York  time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  InterMune has more than tripled since December, when a
European regulatory committee recommended marketing clearance
for Esbriet, which was approved March 3 as the first treatment
of mild to moderate idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a lung
disease, in  Europe . Annual sales in the European Union may reach
about $1 billion in 2015, Avik Roy, an analyst with Monness
Crespi Hardt & Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview.  Study Design  InterMune would appeal to drug companies that make
respiratory products and have a European sales force, said Roy,
who has a $58 price target on the stock and said the company
could fetch $70 in a sale. The company may be attractive to
London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ;  Novartis
AG (NOVN) , based in Basel, Switzerland; and Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd., based in  Petah Tikva , Israel, Roy said.  U.S. regulators rejected InterMune’s application for Esbriet
May 4, sending shares down 80 percent in two days. The company
met with the FDA in March to discuss the design of an additional
study of the drug, known chemically as pirfenidone, Jim Goff, a
spokesman for Brisbane, California-based InterMune, said today
in a telephone interview.  In October, the company sold the rights to its experimental
hepatitis C treatment, danoprevir, to its partner, Swiss
drugmaker Roche Holding AG for $175 million. While InterMune has
one other product on the market -- the osteoporosis drug
Actimmune, which had revenue of $20 million in 2010 -- Esbriet
is the only value driver in the near term, Brian Abrahams, an
analyst for Wells Fargo Securities in New York, said in a note
on April 13.  Biotech Acquisitions  There have been 531 announced or completed acquisitions of
U.S. biotechnology companies in the past three years, with an
average disclosed size of $303.8 million and an average premium
of 61 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  InterMune’s Goff and  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for
Goldman, declined to comment. DealReporter said earlier today
that InterMune was using a financial adviser to explore a sale.  Alex Harrison, a spokeswoman for Glaxo, declined to
comment. AstraZeneca declined to comment on speculation, Abigail Baron, a spokeswoman for the company in  London , said.  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for Novartis, said the company doesn’t
comment on speculation. Teva doesn’t comment on market rumors
concerning acquisitions, spokesman Yossi Koren said in an e-
mail.  About 100,000 Americans and more than 100,000 Europeans
have idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, which causes scarring and
inflammation in the lungs and is usually fatal within five
years. The condition mostly affects people ages 50 to 75,
causing air sacs in the lung to be gradually replaced with scar
tissue, according to the National Heart, Lung, and Blood
Institute’s  website . Most patients die of respiratory failure
when the lungs can’t expand to get oxygen into the bloodstream.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  