-- 
Mirae’s Kim Forecasts Stronger Korean Won, Kospi on Exports

-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-04-27T02:02:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/mirae-s-kim-forecasts-stronger-korean-won-kospi-on-exports.html
Charles Kim, head of South Korean
equity sales at Mirae Asset Securites Co., comments in a
Bloomberg Television interview about South  Korea ’s economic
growth and equities outlook. The nation’s economic growth
accelerated in the first quarter, bolstered by exports, and is
increasing pressure for the central bank to raise interest rates
to damp inflation. Gross domestic product rose 1.4 percent from
the previous quarter, when it advanced 0.5 percent, the  Bank of
Korea  said in  Seoul  today. The benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  rose 0.6
percent as of 10:56 a.m., set for a record close.  On GDP numbers:
“It was very, very positive. Although, on a quarter-on-quarter
basis, it did miss slightly. You really have to look at the
export numbers in the first quarter. I’m very, very positive
about these numbers this morning.”  On Korean equities:
“We’ve seen a lot of earnings upgrades recently. Last year, we
saw EPS growth of over 50 percent. A lot of analysts in the
street were looking at single digit to mid-digit earnings growth.
But now I’m looking at over 20 percent earnings growth for 2011.
So my expectation is that the index could overshoot 2,500 to
2,600 by the end of this year. “I think exporters will
outperform this year.”  On  interest rates :
“I think BOK and policy makers in Korea have a tough decision.
Obviously they don’t want to raise the rates too quickly. So I
expect maybe further rate hikes of 25 basis points twice this
year. In addition, we saw recently the BOK did a turnaround and
allowed the currency to appreciate a bit. So I expect further
appreciation of the Korean won, maybe to 1,050 level by the end
of this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  