-- 
Johnson & Johnson Buys Synthes for $21.3 Billion to Boost Trauma Products

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-04-27T20:32:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/j-j-agrees-to-buy-synthes-for-21-3-billion-in-cash-stock.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  agreed to buy
 Synthes Inc. (SYST)  for $21.3 billion in the biggest purchase of the
company’s 125-year history, to become the leader in the $5.5
billion market for devices that treat trauma victims.  Synthes holders will receive 159 Swiss francs a share in
cash and stock, the companies said in a statement today. That’s
8.5 percent above the closing price yesterday and 15 percent
higher than April 15, the last trading day before  West Chester ,
Pennsylvania-based Synthes said it was in talks. The shares of
Synthes trade in Switzerland.  J&J will gain a majority in the trauma market with the
acquisition, Chief Executive Officer Bill Weldon said on a
conference call. The purchase also gives J&J a device company
with an operating margin of 35 percent, the highest among
medical-products makers with stock values of more than $5
billion.  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J, the world’s
second-biggest seller of health products, has had more than 50
drug and device recalls since the start of 2010.  “Very infrequently do you ever see an opportunity for a
company like Synthes to come into play with J&J,” Weldon said
on the call. “We just thought this was an extraordinary
opportunity and the time was right.”  Synthes already has 50 percent of the market for sales of
screws, plates, bone grafts and other products to treat skeletal
injuries, “as well as scale and margins,” Navid Malik, an
analyst with Matrix Corporate Capital LLP, said in an interview
today. “It certainly complements J&J’s orthopedics business.”  No Divestitures  The acquisition will lead to increased competition and will
benefit doctors, customers and patients, Alex Gorsky, vice
chairman of J&J’s executive committee, said on the conference
call. “We believe we will not be any required to make any
divestitures and if there are any, they will not materially
impact the transaction.”  Synthes Chairman Hansjoerg Wyss, the company’s founder, and
related entities agreed to vote at least 33 percent of the
company’s stock in favor of the deal, the companies said. The
sale may make Wyss the richest person in  Switzerland , surpassing
biotechnology billionaire Ernesto Bertarelli.  Synthes holders will receive 55.65 francs a share in cash,
and 103.35 francs a share in J&J stock, according to the
statement. The stock portion of the payment can fluctuate with
Synthes investors receiving as few as 1.7098 J&J shares and as
many as 1.9672 depending on the U.S. company’s stock price in
the days before the acquisition closes.  Meeting Interests  “We came to a mix that met the interests of both
companies,” Dominic Caruso, J&J’s chief financial officer, said
on a conference call.  The purchase values Synthes at about 11.2 times this year’s
forecast earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, according to Bloomberg data. Acquirers of medical-
products companies paid a median of 11.5 times profit in the
past five years, the data show.  J&J probably will have to shed some businesses to win
antitrust approval, which limits the price it’s willing to pay
for Synthes, Lisa Bedell Clive, an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  London , said in a telephone interview today.  “It’s a fair price,” she said. “I didn’t expect much
more than that given the potential for divestments, particularly
on the spine side.” The firm has a “market perform” rating on
Synthes stock.  Synthes Shares  Synthes rose 10 centimes, or less than 1 percent, to 146.6
Swiss francs at the close of trading in Zurich, giving the
company a market value of 17.4 billion francs ($19.75 billion).
Before today, the stock had returned 17 percent, including
reinvested dividends, in the past year, compared with a 9.3
percent loss for the Bloomberg World Health-Care Products Index.  The stock may be trading below J&J’s offering price because
some investors are concerned the purchase may not go through,
according to Malik. Some J&J shareholders may not want the
company to tackle the acquisition until its problems have been
fixed, he said.  Weldon said adding Synthes will not hurt the company’s
focus on fixing the quality-control issues that led to products
being withdrawn from the market.  “I don’t think that there’ll be any conflict here with the
ability to bring these two companies together and stay focused
on the commitments we’ve made,” he said on the conference call.
“We’re going to be able to do both of these things.”  J&J Shares  J&J rose 62 cents, or 1 percent, to $65.57 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has climbed
8.3 percent since April 15, when the Wall Street Journal first
reported the two companies were discussing a deal.  Moody’s Investors Service, the New York-based credit-rating
company, said it was maintaining its AAA rating on J&J’s bonds
while downgrading its outlook on the drugmaker to negative
because of the deal’s “substantial use of equity.”  “Despite the benefits of acquiring Synthes, J&J is
incurring new debt during a period of increased operating
challenges including product recalls,” said Michael Levesque,
Moody’s senior vice president, in a statement today.  The deal is expected to close in the first half of 2012,
the companies said. The purchase is subject to antitrust review
in the U.S. and the European Union, and requires the approval of
Synthes shareholders, according to the statement.  Merger Plans  J&J plans to combine Synthes, the biggest maker of devices
to treat bone fractures and trauma, with its DePuy unit.
Together, they will become the largest part of J&J’s medical
devices and diagnostics segment, the companies said. Pfizer Inc.
is the world’s biggest seller of health-care products.  Trauma isn’t an elective business -- most of Synthes’s
products are used in emergency surgeries -- so it isn’t as
sensitive to economic swings or government pricing pressure as
the general orthopedics market, Malik said.  Wyss, 75, wanted to sell so he could focus on philanthropy
and other causes he’s interested in, said a person with
knowledge of the sale who declined to be identified because the
matter was confidential. The founder wanted a buyer with the
means to further expand Synthes, the person said. Potential
suitors were contacted last year, the person said.  The acquisition won’t affect J&J’s profit forecast for this
year, and will “modestly” reduce adjusted earnings per share
in 2012, the company said. Synthes has $2 billion of cash on
hand. Excluding that, the purchase will cost about $19.3
billion, the companies said.  Credit Suisse Group AG and New York-based law firm Shearman
& Sterling LLP advised Synthes on the sale, while Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and New York-based law firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore
LLP worked with J&J.  J&J looked at buying Smith & Nephew,  Europe ’s biggest maker
of artificial hips and knees, a person familiar with the plan
who declined to be identified because the discussions were
private said in January. Smith & Nephew fell 5.57 pence, or less
than 1 percent, to 658.5 pence in London trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 