-- 
Japanese Retail Sales Slump Most in 13 Years After Quake, Nuclear Crisis

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-04-27T00:54:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/japanese-retail-sales-slump-most-in-13-years-after-quake-nuclear-crisis.html
Japan ’s retail sales tumbled the
most in 13 years last month as the nation’s record earthquake
shut stores and discouraged households from spending money.  Sales slumped 8.5 percent in March from a year earlier, the
biggest decline since March 1998, according to a statement by
trade ministry in  Tokyo  today. The median estimate of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 6.1 percent drop.  Japanese retailers Aeon Co. and Seven & I Holdings Co. say
full-year profit may decline after store shelves were left empty
because of supply disruptions caused by the March 11 quake. The
world’s third-largest economy will contract the most since the
financial crisis this quarter, analysts said in a Bloomberg
survey this month.  “There is concern that lower confidence could lead to a
downward spiral of lower  consumer spending , weaker economic
activity, and declining pay and employment,” David Rea, a Japan
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said before the
report. “As the second quarter unfolds we expect a further
deterioration in activity and consumer spending.”  The yen traded at 81.52 per dollar as of 9:34 a.m. in
Tokyo, compared with 81.55 yen in  New York  yesterday. The Nikkei
225 Stock Average rose 1.2 percent to 9,675.35.  First Official Figures  Today’s report provides the first official retail-sales
figures to reflect the impact of the quake last month.  Confidence among both merchants and households fell the
most on record last month, a sign consumers may continue to cut
back in the months ahead.  Meantime, Toyota Motor Corp. led a record drop in auto
sales in March and domestic output plunged 63 percent after
disruptions in its supply chains and factory closures.
Production will return to normal by December, the automaker said.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  unveiled a 4-trillion yen ($49
billion) extra budget last week to rebuild the northeast area
that was devastated by the earthquake and tsunami. The spending
aims to provide more than 100,000 temporary homes and clean up
debris from the disaster.  The magnitude-9 quake and ensuing tsunami crippled the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant operated by Tokyo Electric
Power Co., causing radiation leaks and power shortages in
eastern Japan. The disaster left more than 26,000 people dead or
missing, according to the  National Police Agency .  Shares in Seven & I Holdings Co. have fallen 11 percent
since March 10. The owner of the 7-Eleven convenience-store
brand said this month full-year profit may decline 22 percent.  Aeon Co., which may surpass Seven & I to be the country’s
biggest retailer in terms of revenue this fiscal year, has
decreased 5 percent in the same period. It said net income may
decline 33 percent.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 7.4 percent since the
quake.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest maker of cameras, cut its
profit forecast yesterday because of production interruptions,
saying its net income this year will probably fall 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  