-- 
Japan’s 10-Year Bond Futures Rise as Retail Sales Decline Most in 13 Years

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-04-27T07:27:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/japan-s-10-year-bond-yields-are-near-one-month-low-as-retail-sales-drop.html
Japan ’s bond futures rose to a six-
week high after a report showed retail sales sank the most in 13
years, adding to signs last month’s record earthquake and
tsunami are sapping consumer demand.  Benchmark 10-year yields touched a one-month low on
speculation damage caused by the disaster will force the  Bank of
Japan  to maintain monetary easing measures. Futures also climbed
after Treasuries gained yesterday amid bets  Federal Reserve 
policy makers are considering ways to keep yields low. Gains in
bonds were limited as Japan’s sovereign-rating outlook was cut
to “negative” by  Standard & Poor’s .  “Recent economic data have shown how the huge earthquake
has weighed on domestic sentiment,” said  Akitsugu Bandou , a
senior economist in Tokyo at Okasan Securities Co. “We will
need to monitor data for April and May. People aren’t cutting
their debt holdings for now.”  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery gained 0.14 to
139.94 as of the afternoon close at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
They earlier touched 139.98, the highest since March 17.  The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due March 2021 fell half
a basis point to 1.21 percent at 3:26 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
The price rose 0.044 yen to 100.793 yen. The yield earlier
reached 1.205 percent, the least since March 25. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Japan’s government bonds have handed investors a 0.3
percent return this month, compared with a loss of 0.3 percent
this year, according to an index compiled by Merrill Lynch & Co.  Retail Sales Plunge  Retail sales in Japan tumbled 8.5 percent in March from a
year earlier after advancing 0.1 percent in February, the
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said today. That’s the
biggest decline since March 1998. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 6.1 percent drop.  Japan’s central bank will keep its benchmark interest rate
at a range between zero and 0.1 percent tomorrow, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. It will also release a
semi-annual economic outlook report.  The March 11 disaster caused as much as 25 trillion yen
($306 billion) in damage, the government estimates.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food declined 0.1 percent
in March from a year earlier, according to the median estimate
of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s data.
The jobless rate rose to 4.8 percent in March from 4.6 in
February, and industrial production slid 10.6 percent last month,
according to other Bloomberg surveys ahead of reports tomorrow.  Fed Rate  Treasury 10-year yields fell six basis points to 3.31
percent yesterday. The Fed today will leave the target rate for
overnight lending between banks at zero to 0.25 percent at a
policy meeting today, according to all 83 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  In a new move, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to
speak to reporters after the Fed releases a policy statement.  The outlook on Japan’s local-currency debt rating, at AA-,
the fourth-highest grade, was lowered from “stable,” S&P said,
citing the likelihood that reconstruction from last month’s
record earthquake will increase its debt burden.  S&P had reduced Japan’s rating by one step in January in
the first cut since 2002. Moody’s Investors Service said last
month the disaster may bring forward the “tipping point” for
the country’s bond market.  “A downgrade is possible if Japan’s public finances weaken
further over the next two years in the absence of fiscal
consolidation,” S&P said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 