-- 
Japan Bullet-Train Line to Resume After 8,500 Engineers Fix Quake Damage

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-04-27T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/japan-bullet-trains-resume-as-8-500-engineers-fix-quake-damage.html
Katsumi Kishitani worked almost
seven weeks straight helping  East Japan Railway Co. (9020)  repair its
busiest bullet-train line after last month’s earthquake. The
payoff comes tomorrow when services fully resume for the spring
holidays.  Kishitani, a transport ministry rail director for the
earthquake-hit area, has been working 16-hour days and sleeping
in his office in Sendai,  Miyagi prefecture . JR East, as the
railroad is known, deployed 8,500 engineers on its main Tohoku
line to fix tracks, bridges and tunnels damaged by the nation’s
biggest earthquake, said Satohiko Asakura, a company spokesman.  “I never imagined something this terrible would happen,”
said Kishitani, 45. “We were speechless.”  The magnitude-9 earthquake damaged 1,200 places --including
stations, bridges, tunnels and overheard wires -- on the JR East
line, and an aftershock earlier this month damaged 550 more. The
world’s largest listed railway operator by sales is completing
the repair work two weeks faster than in 2004, when a magnitude-
6.6 temblor derailed cars on the Joetsu high-speed line.  JR East  initially said the aftershock could delay the
resumption of service between Tokyo and Shin-Aomori, Japan’s
northern-most high-speed train station, until next month, after
the Golden Week holidays.  Passenger Revenue  “The accumulation of knowledge from those two earthquakes
has paid off in the speed of our repairs,” Kishitani said.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami contributed to the
railroad’s biggest ever monthly drop in passenger revenue, it
said April 5. The Tokyo-based company booked an extraordinary
loss of 58.7 billion yen for the year ended March 31 to cover
restoration expenses and recorded a 59 billion-yen drop in sales
from the quake, it said yesterday.  The 117.7 billion yen in costs and lost revenue from the
magnitude-9 quake is almost double the 60.2 billion yen the
company recorded from a 2004 earthquake in Niigata, Toru Owada,
chief financial officer of the railroad, said yesterday.  “It’s critical to get it up and running,” said Edwin Merner, president of Atlantis Investment Research Corp. in  Tokyo ,
which manages about $3 billion in assets. “The bullet train is
very important for business.”  More Than  California ,  Texas   The railroad carried  88 million  passengers on its five
bullet-train, or Shinkansen, lines in the year ended March 31,
2010. That’s larger than the combined populations of California
and Texas.  By comparison,  Amtrak , based in  Washington , said it carried
3.2 million passengers on its high-speed Acela Express train and
29 million across its U.S. network in the year ended Sept. 30.  JR East resumed partial service on the bullet-train line as
repairs were completed. It reopened service from Tokyo to
Fukushima, where the natural disasters triggered the world’s
worst nuclear accident since 1986, earlier this month and
extended it to Sendai this week.  The final leg opening tomorrow will allow passengers to
ride all 714 kilometers (444 miles) between Tokyo and Shin-
Aomori, as well as access the intersecting Akita bullet-train
line.  “They are faster in implementation because everyone is
committed to delivery,” said Euan Low, a director at
engineering and management consultant Mott MacDonald Group Ltd.
“The rigor of the engineers and depth of understanding is
amazing.”  ‘Vital to Community’  The full service coincides with the first of four national
holidays in Golden Week, one of the nation’s busiest vacation
times. A total of  1.5 million  people used the Tohoku line during
last year’s holiday period, according to company figures.  “Restoring the train and Shinkansen network in the quake
area is vital to the community,” said Akihiro Ohata,  Japan ’s
transport minister. “Repairing railways and ports is
indispensable to safeguarding employment in the area.”  Sendai’s airport, which was engulfed by the tsunami,
started commercial flights April 13 after Japan’s Self-Defense
Forces and the U.S. military helped clear uprooted trees, houses
and about 5,000 vehicles thrown about by rushing water. The main
highway north opened to regular traffic last month.  JR East also may have benefited from additional investments
in safety, including reinforcing structures against earthquakes.
The railway targeted safety spending of 17.4 billion yen for the
year ended March 31, a 56 percent increase from fiscal 2004.  23 Percent Decline  On March 11, a network of 97 earthquake detectors
registered the temblor and triggered an automatic shutdown of
bullet trains about 15 seconds before the quake hit the tracks,
Asakura said. Automatic brakes stopped the 27 trains operating
with no fatalities, he said.  The measures didn’t prevent a decline in JR East shares,
which are down 23 percent since March 10, the day before the
earthquake. The company had a net loss of 61.4 billion yen ($750
million) in the three months ended March 31, its biggest
quarterly loss in at least nine years.  Masayuki Kubota, a  fund manager  at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd.
in Tokyo, said the damage will have a “temporary effect” on
the company.  “The real-estate business is their most promising growth
area,” said Kubota, who oversees the equivalent of $1.9 billion
in assets, including JR East shares. “In Japan, land prices are
highest in front of railway stations, and so they have the most
valuable land all over Japan.”  The nation’s other bullet-train operators -- Central Japan
Railway Co., West Japan Railway Co. and  Kyushu Railway Co.  --did
not suffer any major damages from the earthquake.  The earthquake struck six days after JR East started a new
300 kilometer-an-hour (186 mile-per-hour) bullet-train service
between Tokyo and Shin-Aomori station. The company ran a new
advertising campaign to draw people to the area after cutting
travel time from Tokyo to 3 hours and 10 minutes.  “I’m waiting for the bullet train line to reopen,” said
Fumio Nakata, 38, a Tokyo office worker from Aomori prefecture.
“I want to use it to return to my hometown. It’ll be a relief
once it’s running again as I’ll know I can visit my family
anytime.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  