-- 
Credit Rating Threat May See Kan Raise Taxes at Risk of Smothering Demand

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-04-28T01:52:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/japan-rating-threat-may-see-kan-raise-taxes-at-risk-of-smothering-demand.html
The threat of a cut to Japan’s
credit rating adds pressure on Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  to raise
taxes as he wrestles with financing earthquake rebuilding
without adding to the world’s biggest public debt burden.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its outlook yesterday to
“negative” on Japan’s AA- local-currency rating, estimating
that costs stemming from the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear
crisis may boost budget deficits by 3.7 percent of gross
domestic product through 2013.  Higher taxes may undermine  consumer confidence  already
hammered by the disaster, with March retail sales sliding the
most in 13 years and analysts forecasting that the world’s
third-biggest economy will shrink this quarter. A group of
lawmakers and former cabinet ministers highlighted that danger
yesterday, calling on the  Bank of Japan  to support the recovery
by buying more  government bonds .  “Tax increases are unavoidable,” said  Junko Nishioka ,
chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo. “As
discussions on selling more bonds begin in earnest, we’ll hear
more calls for the Bank of Japan to ease policy further,” she
also said.  The  bond market  has shown little evidence of concern about
Japan’s deteriorating sovereign-debt quality. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year bond was unchanged at 1.215 percent at 10:37
a.m. in Tokyo. More than 90 percent of government debt is held
by domestic investors, dominated by financial companies, which
have provided a stable source of financing.  Output Plunges  S&P said yesterday that “much will depend” on the ability
of  Japan ’s leadership to forge a political consensus to reduce
debt. “A downgrade is possible if Japan’s public finances
weaken further over the next two years in the absence of fiscal
consolidation,” it said.  Underscoring the economic damage from the quake, Japan’s
industrial production fell 15.3 percent in March from February,
the biggest drop since data began in 1953, and household
spending tumbled 8.5 percent from a year earlier, government
reports showed today.  Kan last week submitted an extra 4 trillion yen ($48.6
billion) budget for reconstruction work, which he says may be
the first in a series. His task is complicated by a lack of
support from voters and politicians, including some in his party.  Election Setbacks  Polls show seven in 10 voters disapprove of the
government’s response to the March 11 disaster, and Kan’s ruling
 Democratic Party  of Japan suffered setbacks in local elections
this month. The opposition controls the upper house of the
nation’s parliament.  The briefing yesterday in Tokyo by senior lawmakers from
across political parties highlighted a debate within Japan on
how best to fund the reconstruction of devastated northeastern
coastal areas.  “It’s wrong to immediately raise taxes from a macro-
economic stand point, and we should use government bonds,”
Sakihito Ozawa, a former environment minister and member of
Kan’s Democratic Party of Japan, said at a press conference in
Tokyo. “The Bank of Japan should buy bonds in purchase
operations to raise cash.”  Rebuilding Cost  In the wake of the temblor and tsunami that left some
26,000 people dead or missing, Japan’s central bank doubled to
10 trillion yen a program to buy assets such as government and
corporate debt and exchange-traded funds. It also set up a
credit program for cash-strapped businesses.  An increase in the BOJ’s asset purchase program “will be in
the cards,” said Naoki Iizuka, a senior economist at Mizuho
Securities in  Tokyo . “The BOJ may have little choice but to aid
the government, which may have to increase bond sales somewhat.”  S&P predicted that Japan’s rebuilding will cost as much as
50 trillion yen, with 30 trillion yen its “central forecast.”
That will require the government to borrow more, boosting net
debt to 145 percent of gross domestic product in fiscal 2013,
compared with an earlier forecast of 137 percent, S&P estimated.  At the same time as public spending increases, revenue will
likely decline because of the economic hit from the disaster.
Retail sales slumped 8.5 percent in March from a year earlier,
the biggest decline since March 1998, according to a statement
from the trade ministry yesterday. Toyota Motor Corp. led a
record drop in auto sales in March and retailers Aeon Co. and
Seven & I Holdings Co. expect full-year profit to slide.  Sales Tax   The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
last week urged Kan’s government to at least double a sales tax
to 10 percent and to implement increases as soon as possible.
Japan’s total public debt will reach 204 percent of gross
domestic product this year, according to the OECD, the highest
level among nations tracked by the group.  Japan maintains its credit grade for now because of a
strong financial system, a surplus of funds within the nation
and a “diversified” economy, according to S&P.  “Japan continues to have an abundance of savings, so bond
yields are unlikely to surge,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior
economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “If
the central bank helps with reconstruction by adding further
monetary stimulus, Japan will probably be able to avoid a fiscal
collapse.”  Japan’s public debt will probably increase 5.8 percent to
997.7 trillion yen in the year started April 1, from a projected
943.1 trillion yen last year, the  Finance Ministry  said in
January.  Economists estimate that Japan’s GDP will shrink the most
since the global credit crisis this quarter, before restoring
expansion in the second half of the year. Gross domestic product
may fall 3 percent in April-to-June, according to the median of
18 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net  