-- 
Japan Lawmakers Oppose Rebuilding Tax, Call for More Central Bank Action

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-04-27T07:53:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/japan-lawmakers-oppose-earthquake-rebuilding-tax-call-for-more-boj-action.html
A cross-party group of senior
Japanese lawmakers said Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  shouldn’t raise
taxes to pay for rebuilding from last month’s earthquake, and
called on the central bank to buy more  government bonds  instead.  “It’s wrong to immediately raise taxes from a macro-
economic standpoint, and we should use government bonds,”
Sakihito Ozawa, a former environment minister and member of
Kan’s  Democratic Party of Japan , said at a press conference
today in Tokyo. “The Bank of  Japan  should buy bonds in purchase
operations to raise cash.”  Ten legislators from the DPJ, the main opposition  Liberal
Democratic Party , the New Komeito Party, the  Social Democratic
Party , the Your Party and the People’s New Party attended the
briefing. They made no specific mention of pushing the BOJ to
directly underwrite government debt, a suggestion Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa  and administration officials have rejected.  Polls show the public favors higher taxes to pay for
reconstruction from the March 11 record earthquake and tsunami
that left almost 26,000 people dead or missing. Kan’s initial 4
trillion yen ($49 billion) rebuilding plan doesn’t require
funding from government debt. Subsequent packages will require
issuing bonds, he said on April 27.  Shirakawa has responded to the disaster by injecting
trillions of yen into the banking system and setting up a credit
program to cash-strapped businesses. The central bank buys 1.8
trillion yen in government bonds every month from lenders,
having increased the amount twice since he came into office in
April 2008.  No Inflation Risk  Lawmaker Hidenao Nakagawa, a former LDP chief cabinet
secretary and party secretary-general, said the  Bank of Japan 
could buy an additional 20-30 trillion yen in bonds without any
risk of inflation. Japan’s economy has struggled with deflation
for more than a decade.  “The next stimulus is going to require a huge amount of
money,” Nakagawa said. “We couldn’t raise taxes right now anyway
so of course we have to issue reconstruction bonds. Economic
recovery and getting out of deflation are the priorities.”  The DPJ is considering higher taxes as one option to fund
rebuilding efforts, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said on
April 19. The Yomiuri newspaper the same day reported Kan was
considering raising the 5 percent national consumption tax to 8
percent for three years starting in 2012, without citing anyone.  Debt Burden  Economy and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said on
April 21 that higher taxes must be part of the effort. Policy
makers a grappling with paying for  disaster relief  without
adding to a debt burden that is almost 200 percent of gross
domestic product.  Japan’s sovereign-rating outlook today was cut to
“negative” by Standard & Poor’s on concern reconstruction will
add to the debt load. Kan has yet to say how he plans to control
longer-term fiscal deficits.  The teaming up of ruling-party legislators with opposition
members comes as pressure builds over Kan’s handling of the
disaster. His party suffered setbacks in local elections this
month and some DPJ lawmakers are expressing dissatisfaction with
his leadership. A group of about 60 of them met yesterday to
request a meeting of all DPJ parliamentarians to discuss the
party’s future.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in  Tokyo  at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  