-- 
Japan Rating Outlook Lowered to Negative by S&P on Quake Rebuilding Costs

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-04-27T09:24:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/japan-debt-outlook-cut-to-negative-by-s-p-as-quake-rebuilding-adds-to-debt.html
Japan’s sovereign-rating outlook
was cut to “negative” by  Standard & Poor’s  as the nation’s
reconstruction needs following last month’s earthquake will
likely add to what’s already the world’s biggest debt load.  The outlook on Japan’s local-currency debt rating, at AA-,
the fourth-highest grade, was lowered from “stable,” S&P said
in a statement today. The company had reduced the rating by one
step in January in the first cut since 2002. Moody’s Investors
Service said last month the disaster may bring forward the
“tipping point” for the country’s bond market.  Today’s decision adds to pressure on Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , who has yet to detail how the rebuilding will be paid for
and how he plans to rein in longer-term fiscal deficits. A
cross-party group of senior lawmakers said that Kan shouldn’t
raise taxes, and called on the central bank to buy more
government bonds instead.  “Japan has repeatedly suffered under poor leadership, but
this disaster has made that point even clearer,” said Noriaki Matsuoka, an economist at Daiwa Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo .
“The government needs to decide how it’s going to fund its next
reconstruction package.”  The yen slid to as low as 81.78 against the dollar after
the announcement, before trading at 81.59 at 2:24 p.m. in Tokyo.
Japanese government bond prices fell, with the benchmark 10-year
yield rising one basis point to 1.225 percent. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average rose 1.4 percent after improved earnings in the
U.S. added to signs of strength in the global economy.  Retail Sales  As public spending increases, revenue will likely decline
because of the economic hit from the earthquake, tsunami and
nuclear radiation crisis, with a report today showing retail
sales tumbled the most in 13 years last month.  “It’s wrong to immediately raise taxes from a macro-
economic standpoint, and we should use government bonds,”
Sakihito Ozawa, a former environment minister and member of
Kan’s Democratic Party of Japan, said at a press conference in
Tokyo today. “The  Bank of Japan  should buy bonds in purchase
operations to raise cash.”  Ten legislators from the DPJ, the main opposition  Liberal
Democratic Party , the New Komeito Party, the  Social Democratic
Party , the Your Party and the People’s New Party attended the
briefing. They made no specific mention of pushing the BOJ to
directly underwrite government debt, a suggestion Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa  and administration officials have rejected.  Rebuilding Cost  S&P predicted that rebuilding will cost as much as 50
trillion yen ($611 billion), with 30 trillion yen its “central
forecast.” That will require more borrowing, boosting net
government debt to 145 percent of gross domestic product in
fiscal 2013, compared with an earlier forecast of 137 percent,
S&P estimated.  Kan’s first of what may be multiple extra budgets for
reconstruction is for 4 trillion yen. The package, including
public works to rebuild roads, bridges, ports and other
infrastructure in devastated northeastern areas, may create
about 200,000 jobs, the Cabinet Office said in a statement today.  “Much will depend on  Japan ’s political leadership and its
ability to forge a political consensus on how to offset fiscal
measures in the future,” S&P said. “A downgrade is possible if
Japan’s public finances weaken further over the next two years
in the absence of fiscal consolidation.”  Japan must work to restore its fiscal health while doing
everything it can to rebuild, Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
said after the announcement. Moody’s today reported no change to
its negative outlook for Japan’s Aa2 grade rating, the third
highest, after a reduction from “stable” in February because
of political gridlock.  Rising Debt  Japan’s public debt will probably rise 5.8 percent to 997.7
trillion yen in the year started April 1, from a projected 943.1
trillion yen last year, the  Finance Ministry  said in January.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
last week urged Kan’s government to at least double a  sales tax 
to 10 percent and to implement increases as soon as possible.
Total public debt will reach 204 percent of gross domestic
product this year, according to the OECD, the highest level
among nations tracked by the group.  “We’ll continue to work to maintain and secure trust in
Japanese  government bonds ,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano
said after S&P’s announcement, while declining to comment
specifically on the change.  Japan maintains its  credit rating  for now because of a
strong financial system, a surplus of funds within the nation
and a “diversified” economy, according to S&P.  Bond Yields  “Japan continues to have an abundance of savings, so bond
yields are unlikely to surge,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior
economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “If
the central bank helps with reconstruction by adding further
monetary stimulus, Japan will probably be able to avoid a fiscal
collapse.”  After spending to counter the global financial crisis,
governments in developed nations are struggling to rein in debt,
with S&P last week revising the long-term outlook for the AAA
credit rating held by the U.S. to “negative” from “stable.”  That assessment means that the firm sees a one-in-three
chance of a downgrade within two years. S&P sees a “material
risk” that U.S. policy makers may fail to agree on how to
address medium- and long-term budgetary challenges by 2013.  In  Europe , ratings companies have this year downgraded
Portugal,  Greece  and Ireland, with yields on those nations’
securities reaching records amid speculation that they will
restructure debt.  Worse Than Lehman  European Central Bank Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said yesterday that such a move by Greece would
be “more devastating” than the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Nations to get ratings upgrades this year have included
Indonesia, Ecuador, Chile and  Brazil .  Economists estimate that Japan’s GDP will shrink the most
since the global credit crisis this quarter, before restoring
expansion in the second half of the year. The economy may
contract 3 percent in April-to-June, according to the median of
18 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey this month.  Retail sales slumped 8.5 percent in March from a year
earlier, according to a statement by the trade ministry in Tokyo
today. None of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast
such a large decline.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  led a record drop in
auto sales in March and retailers Aeon Co. and Seven & I
Holdings Co. expect full-year profit to slide.  “Everything is working against consumers, from the power
shortage to a general reluctance to spend after the tragedy,”
Yoshiki Shinke, senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research
Institute in Tokyo, said after the report. “It’s looking
increasingly likely that March was the worst month on record for
 consumer spending , and it’ll take a while before spending
returns to pre-quake levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ken McCallum at   kmccallum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  