-- 
Japan’s Housing Starts May Post First Drop in 10 Months After Earthquake

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-04-28T02:45:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/japan-s-housing-starts-may-post-first-drop-in-10-months-after-earthquake.html
Japan ’s housing starts may post the
first decline in 10 months as the nation’s strongest earthquake
on March 11 sapped demand, halting the strongest recovery in the
real estate market in almost 15 years.  Construction companies broke ground on 1.1 percent fewer
homes in March from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism is
scheduled to release the data at 2 p.m. Tokyo time today.  “With the uncertainties and anxiety about the future, it
will take time for people to actively buy new homes,” said Taro Saito, senior economist in Tokyo at NLI Research Institute Ltd.
“The housing market will remain harsh throughout this year.”  Demand for new homes showed signs of recovery before the
magnitude-9 temblor last month, with starts gaining for nine
straight months, the longest streak since 1996. The economy took
a bigger hit than anticipated, with factory output falling the
most since at least the end of the U.S. occupation, according to
data released today, underscoring calls for the central bank to
add stimulus.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  last week proposed a 4 trillion
yen ($49 billion) additional budget that’s likely to be the
first of several packages to rebuild areas devastated by the
temblor and tsunami.  Reconstruction Boost  “The recent earthquake could cool house buying sentiment
for around three to six months, leading to a temporary decline
in demand,”  Masahiro Mochizuki , an analyst at Credit Suisse
Securities (Japan) Ltd., said in a report. “However, from
fiscal year 2012, we expect housing starts to receive a boost
from demand that failed to emerge in 2011 from reconstruction.”  Housing starts probably dropped to the equivalent of an
annual 814,000 units in March, the lowest since October,
according to the median estimate of 18 economists surveyed.  Factory output dropped a record 15.3 percent from February
and household spending plunged 8.5 percent from a year earlier,
government reports showed today. Retail sales fell the most in
13 years, according to data released yesterday.  Last month’s quake and tsunami destroyed and damaged about
300,000 homes, forcing 130,155 people to stay in shelters
throughout 17 prefectures and the capital, according to the
 National Police Agency .  Great Hanshin Quake  The housing market boom in 1996 came about a year after the
Great Hanshin Earthquake, when a magnitude-7.3 temblor hit Kobe
and parts of western Japan on Jan. 17, 1995, according to the
land ministry and  Japan Meteorological Agency . Housing starts
rose for 10 months through December 1996.  Shares of Daiwa House Industry Co., Japan’s largest home
builder, fell 3.3 percent on the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange since the
quake, while shares of Sekisui House Ltd., Japan’s second
largest, dropped 4.2 percent.  The number of condominiums offered for sale in Tokyo and
surrounding areas may drop 25 percent in April as developers
withhold sales of some projects, the Real Estate Economic
Research Institute said.  Annual condominium supply in Tokyo region, which rose for
the first time in five years in 2010, probably won’t reach a
forecast of 50,000 units this year because of a possible
slowdown of Japan’s economy, said Akio Fukuda, a manager at Real
Estate Economic Institute in Tokyo.  Last month’s quake and tsunami also damaged Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, 220 kilometers
(137 miles) north of Tokyo, causing radiation leaks.  “Apartment sales will be sluggish and it’s hard to tell
when a recovery will take place at the moment,” said Mikio Namiki, an analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “With
relatively big aftershocks and radiation leaks continuing, no
one would be interested in buying a home now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  