-- 
John Paul’s Polish Hometown to Fete Most-Famous Native Son

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-04-27T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/john-paul-s-polish-hometown-gets-ready-to-celebrate-most-famous-native-son.html
The late Pope  John Paul II ’s
hometown in southern Poland is gearing up to fete its most-
famous native son this weekend when the Vatican puts him on the
path to sainthood.  Wadowice, about 30 miles from Krakow, has enjoyed a boom in
tourists over the past 15 years as it’s the birthplace of John
Paul. The town will welcome Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  and other
visitors on May 1 to celebrate the late pope’s beatification,
the penultimate step to becoming a saint.  “He was always a local patriot,” said Ewa Filipiak, mayor
of  Wadowice , where John Paul was born almost 91 years ago. “He
taught us to love the place we come from as well as those
closest to us. Now he’s the face of Wadowice, the reason why
people all over the world have heard of us.”  The number of visitors more than doubled from 1996 to 2009,
peaking at 431,411 in 2005, the year John Paul died, according
to Wadowice’s tourist office. During a 1999 visit, the pope told
thousands on the town’s main square about when he and friends
went to eat  kremowka , or cream cake, after their graduation
exams. The story sparked the establishment of new bakeries in
Wadowice and a nationwide taste for the town’s traditional
pastry, now known in Poland as “the papal cake.”  “Once we had a competition to see who could eat the most
kremowka in one go,” said 91-year-old Eugeniusz Mroz, who went
to school with the future pope then known as Karol Wojtyla.
“Karol ate 10 of them! But he didn’t win; another friend of
ours ate 16 pieces.”  Beatification Announcement  The Vatican announced the beatification of John Paul in
January after confirming that he cured a French nun from
 Parkinson’s disease , from which he also suffered. After he’s
beatified or declared “blessed,” the Vatican’s Congregation
for the Causes of Saints must certify a second miracle for the
late pope to be eligible for canonization, or sainthood.  Born on May 18, 1920, Wojtyla wrote  poetry , enjoyed
kayaking and skiing, and was a keen theater actor. He began
university in Krakow in 1938, the year before the Nazis invaded
 Poland , and decided to become a priest after his father’s death
in 1941. His mother had died when he was 9 and an older brother,
his only sibling, passed away three years after her.  When Wojtyla was elected in 1978, he became the first pope
ever from Poland, and took advantage of his position as the head
of the world’s billion Catholics to denounce totalitarianism and
promote personal freedom and human rights. Poles credit him for
helping hasten the fall of Communist regimes throughout the
former Soviet bloc.  ‘National Icon’  “He made us Poles feel strong,” said Father Adam Boniecki, who met John Paul in 1963 and was close to him during
the first years of his papacy when he worked for the Vatican
newspaper in  Rome . “By the time 1989 came around, he was a
national icon.”  While Lech Walesa, Poland’s first democratically elected
president after the collapse of communism, and current President
Bronislaw Komorowski plan to attend the beatification in Rome,
Prime Minister Tusk will spend the day in Wadowice. About 20,000
people will pack the town’s main square, where the Vatican event
will be broadcast on a big screen followed by a live concert in
the afternoon, Filipiak said.  “Wadowice doesn’t live from John Paul II in the way Assisi
or Lourdes do from their holy sons and daughters,” the mayor
said. “But we could see that happening in the future. The
number of pilgrims has increased since his death, and the sales
of souvenirs and other items connected with his life as well.”  Main Square  Building companies renovating the main square have pledged
to take down barriers and cart away rubble to free up the space
for the festivities, city council leader Zdzislaw Szczur said.
About 35,000 Poles have registered to attend the ceremony in
Rome, with as many as 600 extra coaches chartered from Poland,
according to Father Piotr Studnicki, a priest who’s coordinating
assistance for Polish pilgrims to the Italian capital. Many more
Poles may travel there without registering, he said.  With Poles now split over political issues, including the
Catholic Church’s role in an increasingly secular society, some
people in Wadowice said they hope the beatification brings
people back together, like the pope’s death did six years ago.  “After his death, there was this unification,
solidarity,” said Bozena Grodecka, a clothes-shop assistant in
Wadowice. “Then it all disappeared. But it will come back now,
surely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net . 