-- 
Jordan’s Muslim Brotherhood Asks Assad to Stop Violence in Syria

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-04-27T08:26:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/jordan-s-muslim-brotherhood-asks-assad-to-stop-violence-in-syria.html
Jordan’s Muslim Brotherhood urged
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to stop using force against
protesters and to listen to their pro-democracy demands.  “We strongly condemn the use of violence that has left
hundreds of martyrs and injured people among the heroic Syrian
protesters,” it said in a statement posted on its  website . “We
ask the Syrian president to respond to the demands of the people
for real and serious political reform.” The Syrian regime
should “stop monopolizing power in the hand of a single party
and one group and move toward a multiparty political system.”  Syria ’s government has deployed tanks in cities where
rallies have continued to take place and clashes have left
hundreds of people dead and scores detained, according to rights
groups including Human Rights Watch.  The regime has accused “terrorist gangs,” Islamists and
foreign forces that it didn’t identify of seeking to destabilize
the rule of the secular Baath party. Government officials and
the state-run media say Syria has been targeted because of its
anti-Israel stand.  Syrian officials have accused local “armed gangs” of
receiving foreign weapons and money from places such as near the
flash-point southern city of Daraa, close to the Jordanian
border. While Jordanian officials said yesterday that Syria had
shut their common border crossings, the Syrian government and
foreign reporters on the Jordanian side said the crossings were
open, though vehicles rarely venture into the area.  In 1982, Assad’s father, then-President Hafez al-Assad,
crushed a rebellion led by Sunni Muslim militants in the city of
Hama, killing as many as 10,000 people, according to estimates
cited by  Human Rights Watch . The current outbreak of unrest is
the most serious since then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 