-- 
Jose Mourinho Wants to Bring John Terry to Real Madrid, Mail Says: Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-04-27T10:24:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/jose-mourinho-wants-to-bring-john-terry-to-real-madrid-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Terry a Target  Real Madrid coach  Jose Mourinho  is considering a bid for
Chelsea defender  John Terry ,  the Daily Mail said .  The pair worked together when Mourinho coached the  London 
club, and wants to reunite Terry with  Ricardo Carvalho  at the
center of Real’s defense, the newspaper said. Chelsea, which
isn’t likely to win a trophy this season, will resist any moves
for Terry, the Mail said.  Liverpool vs United  Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish wants to sign Blackburn
defender Phil Jones, and will take on Manchester United for the
15 million-pound ($24.8 million) player,  the Sun said .  Dalglish watched Jones earlier this week against Manchester
City, and will face competition from  Alex Ferguson , who wants to
sign the 19-year-old, the Sun said. Jones plays alongside
United’s Chris Smalling for the England Under-21 squad, the
newspaper said.  Ancelotti Out?  Chelsea’s billionaire owner Roman Abramovich wants to
replace coach  Carlo Ancelotti  after the season, even if the club
somehow wins the league,  the Telegraph said .  The Russian wants to bring back Turkey national team
manager Guus Hiddink, who coached Chelsea before the Italian
arrived, the newspaper said.  Barcelona Bound?  Arsenal captain Cesc Fabregas is poised to leave after the
season as executives at the London club prepare to sell him for
35 million pounds,  the Sun said .  Although the 23-year-old still has four years remaining on
his 120,000 pounds-a-week contract, manager  Arsene Wenger  knows
that Fabregas is frustrated at the team’s inability to win
trophies, the newspaper said. Arsenal rejected a 29 million-
pound bid from Barcelona last year and Fabregas has set his
heart on returning there, the Sun added.  Mancini for Juve?  Manchester City  manager  Roberto Mancini  is in discussions
with Juventus about joining the Italian club next season, the
 Mirror said .  Mancini has met with officials from the Turin team in
London, and demanded a “huge” amount of money to spend on
signing new players, the newspaper said. The 46-year-old is a
Juventus fan and wants to coach them even though his contract
with City runs until 2013, the Mirror said.  Adebayor’s Return?  Real Madrid isn’t interested in keeping forward Emmanuel Adebayor when his loan from Manchester City ends next month , the
Sun said.   The former Arsenal player has scored four goals for the
Spanish club, and won the Copa del Rey, but Real officials
believe the 12 million-pound transfer fee, and the player’s wage
demands, make it more expensive, the newspaper said.  French Defender  Manchester United  will see off competition from Arsenal to
sign 18-year-old French defender Raphael Varane from Lens, the 
Daily Mail said.   The 6-foot 3-inch defender played 17 times for the French
team this season and will cost 3.7 million pounds, the newspaper
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  