-- 
Kenya Issues Request for Information on Suspected ‘Terrorists’

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-04-27T15:02:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/kenya-issues-request-for-information-on-suspected-terrorists-.html
Kenyan police are searching for
three people allegedly involved in plotting "terrorism,"
including at least one person who recently returned to  Kenya 
from training in neighboring Somalia.  Abdullahi, whose other names are unknown, comes from
central Kenya and is "believed to be dangerous," Eric Kiraithe,
the East African nation’s police spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement today. Abdullahi is probably in Kenya’s capital,
Nairobi, with two of his associates, Kiraithe said.  "Any person with information on his whereabouts is
requested to pass information to the police or other security
agencies for immediate action," he said.  Kenyan police warned last week that Somalia’s al-Shabaab
militia threatened to carry out attacks on Kenyan government
buildings, bus terminals and places of worship over the Easter
weekend through April 25. No attack took place.  The U.S. accuses al-Shabaab, which has been battling
 Somalia ’s Western-backed government since 2007, of having links
to al-Qaeda, which claimed responsibility for at least two
attacks in Kenya in the past 13 years. In August 1998, at least
213 people died in an attack on the U.S. Embassy in downtown
Nairobi. In November 2002, 13 people were killed in an assault
on a hotel in the port city of  Mombasa .  Two months ago, al-Shabaab said it planned to carry out
attacks in Kenya in retaliation for training Somali government
security forces and allowing Ethiopian forces to use its
territory to stage assaults on the rebel militia.  In July, al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for twin bomb
attacks in  Uganda  that killed 76 people watching the soccer
 World Cup  final at two separate venues. The group said it
targeted Uganda because the country has troops serving in an
 African Union peacekeeping force .  Somalia has been mired in a civil war for two decades and
hasn’t had a functioning central government since the 1991
ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre. Most of southern and
central Somalia has been seized by al-Shabaab, while President
Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s government controls only parts of
Mogadishu, the capital, backed by AU peacekeepers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  