-- 
Korean Won Gains Most in a Week on Faster Growth, U.S. Rates

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-04-27T06:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/korean-won-gains-most-in-a-week-on-faster-growth-u-s-rates.html
South Korea ’s won rose the most in
a week against the dollar, supported by an improving economy and
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will signal its intention of
keeping U.S. interest rates low after a policy meeting today.  Gross domestic product increased 1.4 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, when it gained 0.5
percent, and manufacturers’ confidence is at an eight-month high,
central bank data showed today. The Fed will leave the target
rate for overnight lending between banks at zero to 0.25 percent,
according to all 83 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Market players are betting that the Fed will keep policy
rates low, and that will weaken the dollar,” said Han Sung Min,
a currency dealer at Busan Bank in  Seoul . “Hopes for a global
recovery are also supporting Asian currencies.”  The won rose 0.6 percent to 1,079.45 per dollar at the 3
p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency climbed as high as 1,078.45 today, just shy of a
31-month high of 1,078.30 reached on April 21, before easing on
suspected intervention by the central bank.  “The authorities were spotted in the market conducting
smoothing operations in an effort to keep the won from rising
through the previous high of 1,078,” said Lee Jin Woo, head of
currency strategy with NH Investment & Futures Co. in Seoul.
“It’s hard to confirm how much they spent on intervention today
but without it, the won would have touched 1,050 already.”  Inflation Risk  Policy makers bought an estimated $2 billion to $2.5
billion on April 21 to limit won appreciation, which poses a
risk to exports, Lee said. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicts the
currency will reach 1,050 per dollar within three months as the
improving economy makes the government more tolerant of
appreciation to combat inflation, which hit a 29-month high of
4.7 percent in March.  “The macro risk for  Korea  still remains more on inflation
than economic growth, especially given that we expect an
acceleration in the U.S. recovery in the second half of this
year and also we think Chinese tightening will be easing in the
second half,” Goohoon Kwon, a Seoul-based economist at Goldman
Sachs, said on Bloomberg Television.  The Kospi share index rose to within 0.4 percent of its
record closing level after U.S. data showed  consumer confidence 
in the world’s biggest economy increased more than forecast in
April, brightening the outlook for Korean exports.  South Korea’s benchmark three-year bonds were little
changed. The yield on the 3 percent bond due December 2013 fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.82 percent,
according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  