-- 
Kissel Doesn’t Appeal Murder Conviction, May Seek Transfer to U.S. Prison

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-04-27T05:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/nancy-kissel-doesn-t-appeal-may-apply-for-transfer-to-u-s-jail.html
Nancy Kissel , who was retried in
Hong Kong for the murder of her Merrill Lynch & Co. banker
husband, didn’t appeal her second conviction and may apply for a
transfer to a U.S. prison, her lawyer said today.  “My understanding is that she wishes to make an
application to serve her sentence in the  United States ,” said
Kissel’s lawyer Colin Cohen. The 28-day period for Kissel to
file an appeal expired on April 23.  Helen Leung, a  Correctional Services Department  spokeswoman,
wrote in an e-mail that privacy concerns prevent the department
from saying whether Kissel had filed an application to be
transferred.  The Hong Kong and U.S. governments signed an agreement in
1997 allowing the transfer of prisoners between the two
jurisdictions. The last successful repatriation of an American
prisoner from  Hong Kong  was in 2008, according to  U.S.
Department of Justice  records.  Michigan-born Kissel was sentenced to life in prison in
March after being convicted for murdering her husband, Robert,
on the night of Nov. 2, 2003. Prosecutors said she drugged her
husband, a distressed assets specialist at Merrill, with a
milkshake before bludgeoning his skull with a lead ornament and
hiding his body in a rolled-up carpet.  Simon Young, director of the University of Hong Kong’s
Centre for Comparative and Public Law, said that local
authorities must state to the U.S. government the minimum time
period Kissel is to serve before she can be eligible for parole.  At her sentencing, Kissel lawyer  Edward Fitzgerald  had
asked Judge Andrew Macrae to write a letter to Kissel’s parole
board about his client’s poor health and psychological distress.
Cohen declined to comment on when the board may review Kissel’s
case.  Kissel, 47, has already served more than six years in a
Hong Kong prison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Debra Mao} in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  