-- 
Nasdaq Eating Machine Starving for NYSE Deal: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-04-27T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/nasdaq-eating-machine-starving-for-nyse-deal-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
From 2008 to 2010,  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ)  paid $5.7 billion for eight corporate acquisitions. Its
shareholders have little to show for them. Today Nasdaq’s stock
market value is about $4.8 billion.  Now the company is attempting its biggest deal ever: an
$11.3 billion bid with  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  for  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , for which Nasdaq would contribute a bit less than half
the purchase price, some of it borrowed. There’s been a strong
whiff of urgency about their effort, too.  Twice this month NYSE’s board has rebuffed the offer,
citing antitrust concerns and other reasons, in favor of a $9.5
billion deal with  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  to which it already had
agreed. Nasdaq and ICE show no sign of giving up and are
appealing directly to NYSE’s shareholders, some of whom surely
would appreciate the chance to vote on the matter themselves.  Nasdaq  this week said it would cut annual listing fees on
the New York Stock Exchange by 10 percent, in a bid for support
from its rival’s customers. It has promised to keep the stock
exchange’s iconic trading floor open. The company’s executives
say they’re meeting with Justice Department officials in hopes
of heading off antitrust worries. Nasdaq and ICE also have
proposed a $350 million breakup payment to NYSE should
regulators nix their offer.  All of this is a long way of saying they want this deal
badly. Each of the bidders is pursuing a roll-up strategy,
meaning they’re relying on acquisitions of other companies to
drive their growth. The problem with roll-ups is they often hit
a wall once they run out of targets to buy, unless they can sell
themselves to another consolidator first, as NYSE is attempting.
A single bad deal, capped by a big write-off showing that
management overpaid, can cripple a company’s expansion plans.  Write Down  One thing to watch is whether Nasdaq may have to write down
some of the assets already on its books, especially if its bid
for NYSE fails and the company is left alone without a suitor
for itself. While Nasdaq executives say writedowns shouldn’t be
a concern, the numbers show a balance sheet full of froth.  At $27.48 a share, Nasdaq is trading for 96 percent of the
company’s book value, or shareholder equity, following a 59
percent rise in its stock price since last July, right before
the worldwide merger frenzy for exchange operators began. The
discount to book value, although slight at the moment, tells you
the market remains skeptical of some of Nasdaq’s asset values.
ICE and  Deutsche Boerse , by comparison, both trade for more than
three times book value.  Paying Premiums  Nasdaq’s books show $5.3 billion of goodwill, which exceeds
the company’s $5 billion of equity and represents almost a third
of its total assets. Goodwill isn’t a saleable asset. It’s the
ledger entry a company records when it pays a premium to buy
another. Specifically, it’s the difference between the purchase
price and the fair value of the acquired company’s net assets.
Nasdaq’s balance sheet would have us believe the goodwill is
worth more than what the market says the whole company is worth.
Take away goodwill, and Nasdaq’s book value would be negative.  The company’s assets also include almost $1.8 billion of
purchased intangibles, such as licenses and trade names. Like
goodwill, most of these assets don’t have to be  amortized . That
means the company doesn’t have to take quarterly hits to
earnings to gradually write them down as it would with, say, a
truck.  Nasdaq has been consistently profitable throughout its
latest acquisition spree. That may be due as much to the way it
allocated the purchase prices for its deals as anything else.  Tangible Assets  Consider the $5.7 billion Nasdaq paid for the eight deals
it completed since the start of 2008. It said the liabilities at
those companies, combined, exceeded their tangible assets by
$355 million. As a result, it assigned almost $6.1 billion to
intangibles, including $4.3 billion for goodwill.  The largest of those purchases was Nasdaq’s $4.4 billion
purchase in 2008 of  Sweden ’s OMX AB, operator of equity markets
in seven European cities. The company said OMX’s liabilities
exceeded tangible assets by $340 million, and it assigned $4.7
billion to intangibles, including $3.5 billion to goodwill.  To be sure, these aren’t the kinds of businesses that come
with lots of hard assets, such as heavy equipment. Even so, the
amounts chalked up to goodwill are eye-popping.  Nasdaq’s interim chief financial officer, Ronald Hassen,
says there’s no need for goodwill writedowns, notwithstanding
the market’s signals. He says the company uses an independent
third party to test its values annually, and that the results at
its operating segments support the goodwill assigned to them.  If he saw the need to test more frequently, Hassen says he
would do it. “We don’t see any form of impairment based on our
current performance,” he says.  Then again, if they did, that could mean the end to
Nasdaq’s streak of 26 consecutive profitable quarters, dating to
late 2004, which has helped fuel the company’s ability to keep
making acquisitions. Considering investors’ verdict on what it
has bought so far, there’s little room for error.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  