-- 
NATO Aims to Rattle Qaddafi With Increased Airstrikes, Attacks on Compound

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-04-27T16:23:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/nato-aims-to-rattle-qaddafi-with-increased-airstrikes-attacks-on-compound.html
NATO is intensifying airstrikes
against Muammar Qaddafi’s forces and selecting targets closer to
the Libyan leader in an effort to break a military stalemate
between loyalists and rebels, military officials said.  U.K. Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  said this week’s North
Atlantic Treaty Organization strike that flattened part of
Qaddafi’s main compound in Tripoli was meant to “increase the
psychological pressure” on the Libyan dictator. He said the
target was legitimate as part of the military command.  “Where there are members of the regime who may be involved
with those command-and-control assets, they take risks in doing
so,” Fox told a panel of lawmakers in the House of Commons in
London today. “We do not discuss individual targets, but we do
make very clear what the general case is and those involved are
capable of understanding that.”  The military alliance has boosted its firepower in the last
week with 12 additional Italian ground-attack warplanes and
armed U.S. Predator drones. Western leaders say that attacks
have helped set back Libyan army attempts to capture Misrata,
even as regime forces yesterday bombarded the western Libyan
city’s port and the rebel advance from the oil-rich east remains
tangled in running battles along the Mediterranean coast.  Fox met yesterday in  Washington  with U.S. Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates , who countered  Libya ’s assertion that the April 25
strike on the Bab al-Aziziya compound was intended to kill
Qaddafi. He also said the site was used for military purposes.  ‘Legitimate Targets’  “We are not targeting him specifically, but we do consider
command-and-control targets legitimate targets, wherever we find
them,” Gates said after meeting with his British counterpart.  General  Charles Bouchard , the Canadian Air Force officer
commanding the Libya operation, acknowledged yesterday that
Qaddafi wasn’t inside the building at the time. Libyan
television later showed the leader sitting in a tent, with a TV
displaying the date, and government spokesman Moussa Ibrahim
said the 68-year-old leader was “healthy and well.”  Military officials suggested the pressure may force
loyalist forces to desert Qaddafi, following the defection last
month of Moussa Koussa, the foreign minister and one-time
intelligence chief. Bouchard said NATO knew of troop defections,
while Fox cited the capture of underage soldiers and
mercenaries.  Qaddafi ‘Cronies’  “Qaddafi isn’t as susceptible to psychological pressure as
are those surrounding him,”  Jan Techau , director of the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Brussels, said in
a phone interview. “The more cronies he loses the better and
this is the strategy the allies are following in attacking his
compound.”  Earlier on  PBS’s “NewsHour,”  Fox said the strike on the
compound will make Qaddafi “realize that this is something that
he is involved in.”  NATO said it hit more than a dozen military and technical
vehicles and a surface-to-air missile launcher yesterday near
Misrata, where the bombardment of the port died down overnight.
That allowed a ship chartered by the  International Organization
of Migration  to dock and unload 160 tons of food and medical
supplies early today, IOM spokesman Jean-Philippe Chauzy said.  “There was no shelling overnight or this morning,” Chauzy
said by phone. The vessel, Red Star One, aims to leave today
with about 1,000 migrant workers as well as Libyan nationals
injured during the assault. The Geneva-based organization has so
far evacuated more than 4,500 migrants in four previous
operations.  Attack on Port  Burning tires and charred cars at the port were left from
yesterday’s attack, the  Associated Press  reported.  Crude extended gains in  New York , rising as much as 0.6
percent. Crude oil futures for June delivery increased 66 cents
to $112.87 a barrel at 10:40 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Oil earlier fell as low as $110.71 a barrel.  NATO is operating under a United Nations mandate that
endorses “all necessary measures” to protect civilian lives in
Libya. A U.S.-led military intervention eliminated Qaddafi’s air
force in the initial weeks, though the campaign’s momentum under
NATO command has slowed as his forces dig in.  Russia , one of five permanent members of the UN Security
Council that abstained from the vote authorizing the March 17
mandate, has stepped up its criticism of the military campaign.
Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin yesterday said the
bombardment is destroying Libya’s infrastructure and going
beyond the mandate.  “Libya’s oil reserves, by the way, are the biggest in
 Africa  and its gas reserves are ranked fourth-biggest in
Africa,” Putin told reporters in Copenhagen. “This begs the
question of whether they are the main object of interest for
those operating there today.”  Separately, an F-16 warplane flying for NATO crashed on
landing at Sigonella air base in eastern Sicily today. The pilot
ejected safely, the alliance said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  