-- 
New Zealand Leaves Key Rate at 2.5% on ‘Uncertain’ Outlook; Currency Drops

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-04-27T21:10:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/new-zealand-leaves-key-rate-at-2-5-on-uncertain-outlook-currency-drops.html
New Zealand ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate at a record low as the nation recovers
from the most devastating earthquake in 80 years, sending the
country’s currency lower.  “The outlook for the New Zealand economy remains very
uncertain,” Governor Alan Bollard said in a statement today in
Wellington after leaving the official cash rate at 2.5 percent.
“Given the outlook for  core inflation  and continued economic
disruption from the earthquakes, the current level of the cash
rate is likely to remain appropriate for some time.”  Bollard has scope to leave borrowing costs unchanged until
late this year because economic growth is forecast to be as slow
as 0.8 percent and price increases have been slower than
forecast. He cut the key rate by half a percentage point in
March after earthquakes in the southern city of Christchurch
hurt consumer confidence and spending.  “Growth is coming from an extremely weak starting point,”
Dominick Stephens, chief economist at Westpac Banking Corp. in
Auckland, said before the release. “The pace of recovery from
the recession has been tepid so far. There is still a lot of
slack in the economy relative to its potential.”  The  New Zealand dollar  declined after Bollard’s decision
and his statement that the economic outlook “remains very
uncertain.” The currency slid to 80.45 U.S. cents as of 9:03
a.m. in Wellington from 80.80 cents just before the
announcement.  “Higher  oil prices  and the elevated level of the New
Zealand dollar are both unwelcome,” Bollard said. “They will
have some dampening effect on economic activity.”  The currency is being buoyed by demand from carry traders
who borrow in countries with low interest costs to fund
purchases in markets with higher yields. They are seeing returns
rebound from two-year lows as the U.S. Federal Reserve and Bank
of  Japan  show no urgency to tighten monetary policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  