-- 
New York Jets’ Tony Richardson Warns ‘Utter Chaos’ Could Await NFL Draft

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-04-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/new-york-jets-tony-richardson-says-utter-chaos-could-await-nfl-draft.html
The labor dispute between the
 National Football League  and its players could deprive drafted
and undrafted players of a fair chance to earn roster spots, New
York Jets player representative Tony Richardson said.  Richardson, 39, spoke yesterday at a discussion hosted by
the Manhattan-based  New York Law School . He said the draft could
coincide with the official start of the offseason, with roughly
500 players set to become free agents, creating a hectic
atmosphere at Radio City Music Hall.  The 16-year NFL fullback’s comments came one day after U.S.
District Judge Susan Richard Nelson ruled the league must end
its month-old lockout of players. The NFL is seeking a stay to
put Nelson’s ruling on hold and delay the start of the offseason
while it contests the decision in the  U.S. Court of Appeals .  “If the lockout is lifted and the stay isn’t granted, it
could be utter chaos,” said Richardson, a member of the National 
Football League Players Association's Board of Directors. “If I am 
a general manager or a head coach and I have to deal with trying to 
draft players at the same time as a lot of movement in free agency and
trades, it could get pretty ugly.”  Richardson went undrafted out of college and broke into the
league following a tryout with the  Dallas Cowboys . If the league
is granted a stay, the lockout will make it harder for this
year’s undrafted players to follow his path by working their way
onto a team, he said.  ‘Restrict Their Ability’  “The longer this thing goes on, those guys won’t have that
opportunity to actually be at the facility, learn the language
of the playbook and train with the strength coaches,”
Richardson said during the discussion. “It’s going to restrict
their ability to make the team.”  Nelson’s ruling in  St. Paul , Minnesota, came in an
antitrust lawsuit filed by 10 players, including  Super Bowl 
winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees ,
and Texas A&M University linebacker Von Miller, who has entered
the draft.  “It’s a step in the right direction -- it’s not a
touchdown, I would consider it a first down,” Richardson said
in an interview following the discussion. “You can’t put your
hands in the air and say, ‘We won.’”  The NFL on March 12 declared a labor lockout after talks to
create a new collective bargaining agreement failed and the NFL
Players Association said it no longer would act as a union.  Division of Revenue  The sides can’t agree on how to split $9 billion in
revenue, the most of any U.S. sports league. The league and its
players are also at odds over health-care provisions, a rookie
pay scale, financial transparency and the extension of the
regular season to 18 games from 16.  If the league’s request for a stay is denied and the
lockout remains lifted, the NFL’s offseason could officially
begin. Players would resume getting paid, teams would be allowed
to hold practices and about 500 players would become free
agents. During a lockout, players aren’t paid and teams can’t
practice, sign new players or make trades.  Teams denied players use of weight rooms and training
centers yesterday. Jets offensive tackle D’Brickashaw Ferguson,
who has a $750,000 bonus in his contract tied to offseason
workouts, showed up at the team’s facilities in  Florham Park ,
 New Jersey , the Star-Ledger reported. Ferguson, linebacker Bart Scott, wide receiver Jerricho Cotchery and a number of teammates
were not allowed to use the weight room, the paper said.  Not ‘Appropriate’ Now  “We do not believe it is appropriate for football
activities to take place until there are further rulings from
the court,” league spokesman  Greg Aiello  said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement. “Under the last set of proposals made to
the NFLPA, teams wouldn’t even be into offseason programs yet.”  Nelson ordered the players’ attorneys to submit written
arguments opposing a stay of her order by this morning.  “It was the owners’ intention to lock out the players as
early as 2008,” players’ association spokesman George Atallah
said during the New York Law School discussion. “The injunction
that was granted yesterday proves without a shadow of a doubt
that a lockout based on the players’ decertification is
illegal.”  Under an order by Nelson, lawyers for owners and players
engaged in four days of talks mediated by U.S. Magistrate Judge
Arthur Boylan in  Minneapolis . The negotiations are scheduled to
resume on May 16. A decision on the league’s appeal of Nelson’s
decision isn’t expected until June, according to Atallah.  Richardson, who has served as a player representative for
the  Kansas City Chiefs ,  Minnesota  Vikings and Jets, said players
are anxious to return to the field.  “We’ve been stressing for a while that we don’t actually
start playing games until September, so we have time, but there
is a sense of urgency to get back to some normalcy and get back
to some training,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 