-- 
New Jersey Has Bond Rating Cut by Moody’s As Recovery Lags Behind Nation

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-04-27T22:31:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/new-jersey-bond-rating-cut-one-level-by-moody-s-to-aa3-amid-slow-recovery.html
New Jersey ’s bond rating was
downgraded one step to Aa3, the fourth-highest level, by Moody’s
Investors Service, which cited a “weakened financial position”
and an economic recovery lagging behind the nation.  Only California and  Illinois  have lower ratings from
Moody’s, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. New Jersey
faces “rapidly rising fixed costs, relatively slow economic
recovery, and a lack of specified plans to rebuild fund
balances,” Moody’s said today in a report. Rising pension and
health-care costs were also cited as a concern.  Governor  Chris Christie , a first-term Republican, skipped a
$3 billion payment into the state retirement system this fiscal
year as he urged the Democratic-led Legislature to pass his
proposed pension and benefit changes. Fixed costs such as debt
service, pension contributions and benefit payments may reach 30
percent of revenue within eight years, from 13 percent in fiscal
2010, making financial management more difficult, Moody’s said.  “They key driver here is that the state is coming into a
challenging situation with an already-weakened fund balance and
liquidity and with a structurally imbalanced budget,” Baye
Larsen, a Moody’s analyst in  New York , said today in a telephone
interview. “Over the next several years there are going to be
rising pressures.”  Slow Recovery  Larsen predicted moderate tax-revenue growth in the state,
since employment continued to decline last month, while New
Jersey’s economic recovery is projected to lag the nation.  “What concerns us more is what the state is going to do in
order to manage the unfunded liabilities and budget pressures
going forward,” Larsen said.  The downgrade followed by less than three months a similar
action by  Standard & Poor’s , which lowered the state’s general-
obligation bond rating to AA-, also the fourth-highest level,
citing the growing pension and benefit obligations. Fitch
Ratings today affirmed its AA grade on the debt, while revising
its outlook to negative from stable.  “The negatives cited by Moody’s are legacy issues which
this governor is working daily to fix to ensure the state is put
on a sustainable fiscal path,”  Michael Drewniak , Christie’s
spokesman, said by e-mail.  Debt Affected  The Moody’s downgrade affects about $34 billion in debt,
Larsen said, including the state’s general-obligation bonds and
$32.9 billion in appropriation-backed securities. In December,
New Jersey reported $2.6 billion in general-obligation debt
outstanding.  “It’s no laughing matter when one  Wall Street  agency takes
a sour look at the governor’s budget,” Assembly Majority Leader
 Joseph Cryan , a Democrat from Union, said in a statement. “It’s
even worse when two credit-rating agencies do so. The governor’s
fiscal failures are getting noticed by Wall Street, and that is
troublesome.”  The pension fund that covers current and retired government
workers in New Jersey has a funding deficit of $53.9 billion,
based on assets and anticipated payouts, the state reported in
December. The unfunded gap for providing medical care to retired
public employees was projected to be $66.8 billion.  Dan Solender, who oversees $14 billion as head of municipal
bonds at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City , said the downgrade
wasn’t surprising as New Jersey bonds were trading at greater
yields relative to an index of similarly rated debt from other
states.  Wider ‘Spread’  The extra-yield investors demand to hold a 10-year general-
obligation bond from New Jersey compared with an index of Aa3
rated debt reached 40 basis points on April 5, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The so-called spread was 7 basis points
on March 11. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  New Jersey’s fiscal picture would be different if it had
made its annually required pension contribution, Solender said.  “They have to make much bigger cuts or find new revenue,”
he said. “The more you delay it, the bigger it becomes.”  Arizona  is the only other state with general-obligation
securities rated Aa3, according to Larsen. While Moody’s outlook
for New Jersey is stable, the view for Arizona is negative.  New Jersey is among at least 44 states projecting total
budget deficits that may reach $112 billion in the next fiscal
year, the Washington-based Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities said last month. The state won’t return to pre-
recession employment rates until mid-2016, two years behind the
rest of the nation, Rutgers University economist Nancy Mantell
said this week in a report.  Rising Jobless Rate  Unemployment in New Jersey rose to 9.3 percent in March
from 9.2 percent in February. While down from a recessionary
peak of 10 percent in December 2009, it was up from 9.1 percent
in January. The U.S. jobless rate fell to 8.8 percent last
month, the lowest in two years.  Christie proposed a $29.4 billion budget in February that
would give residents property-tax credits if lawmakers pass his
plan for all public workers to pay 30 percent of the cost of
their health-insurance premiums by 2014.  The Moody’s downgrade “clearly underscores the need for
bipartisan participation in enacting critical reforms, in
particular pension and health benefits, civil-service reform and
ending the abusive practice of paying public employees for
accumulated sick leave,” said Drewniak, Christie’s spokesman.  As positives in the report, he cited sections noting
Christie’s effort to reduce the use of one-time revenue in his
2012 budget, his pension plan proposals and greater use of pay-
as-you-go capital funding for transportation.  The spending plan for the year that begins July 1 would
boost school funding, keeps municipal aid stable and cuts $199
million of business taxes. Christie also proposed making a $506
million payment into the pension system, once lawmakers pass his
proposal to raise workers’ costs.  The governor also wants to roll back a 9 percent pension-
benefits increase enacted in 2001, raise the minimum  retirement
age  and freeze cost-of-living raises.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 