-- 
Australian Dollar Rises Past $1.09 on Rate Outlook; Kiwi Falls Versus Yen

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-04-28T18:15:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/new-zealand-dollar-falls-as-bollard-holds-rates-aussie-hits-record-high.html
The Australian dollar rallied past
$1.09 for the first time since it was floated on speculation the
central bank will raise  interest rates  earlier than the  Federal
Reserve  to contain inflation.  The Aussie appreciated for a third day versus the greenback
after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled yesterday that he
will maintain record monetary stimulus to spur growth. The New
Zealand dollar fell against the yen after Reserve Bank Governor
Alan Bollard left rates at a record low and called the
currency’s recent advance unwelcome.  “What we’re looking at right now is the Fed most likely
being the last major central bank to hike” rates, except the
Bank of  Japan , said Khoon Goh, head of market economics and
strategy at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “With the
 U.S. dollar  just getting sold off, you are just going to see
ongoing gains in commodity prices and commodity currencies,”
including the Aussie, he said.  The Australian dollar advanced 0.2 percent to $1.0894 at
2:07 p.m. in  New York , from $1.0872 yesterday, after climbing to
$1.0948, the highest level since the currency began trading
freely in 1983. The currency dropped 0.5 percent to 88.83 yen.
New Zealand’s dollar slid 1.1 percent to 79.92 U.S. cents and
dropped 1.8 percent to 65.19 yen.  Bernanke said at his first press conference after a policy
decision that the Fed is likely to continue reinvesting its
securities holdings after its $600 billion bond-buying program
ends in June. The  Bank of Japan  today left its target lending
rate in a range of zero to 0.1 percent.  U.S. Yield Spread  The extra yield offered by  Australia ’s two-year government
notes over similar-maturity U.S. debt expanded to 4.35
percentage points, the widest since Feb. 9.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will increase interest rates
by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, over the next 12
months, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on
swaps. The outlook was for a boost of 19 basis points at the end
of last week.  Australia’s consumer prices gained 1.6 percent last quarter
from the previous three months, the biggest jump since 2006, the
Bureau of Statistics said yesterday.  The Aussie also advanced today after the World Bank
increased its forecast for  China ’s economic growth.  China’s economy will expand 9.3 percent this year, higher
than the 9 percent forecast published March 21, the World Bank
said. China is Australia’s largest trading partner.  New Zealand ’s currency snapped a two-day gain versus the
yen after Bollard said the economic outlook “remains very
uncertain.” Policy makers left the official cash rate unchanged
at a record low 2.50 percent.  “Despite the New Zealand dollar coming off on the back of
what the governor has said, the wider forces are at work,”
ANZ’s Goh said. The strong Aussie and the weak U.S. currency
“are a bigger driver of the New Zealand dollar,” Goh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  