-- 
NFL Owners Tell Judge They Oppose Player Request for $1 Billion Bond Order

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-04-27T21:51:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/nfl-owners-tell-judge-they-oppose-request-by-players-for-1-billion-bond.html
National Football League team
owners told a U.S. judge they oppose a request by players that
she order the owners to post a $1 billion bond indemnifying
players if they lose pay from an illegal labor lockout.  NFL owners made their opposition known to U.S. District
Judge Susan Richard Nelson in  St. Paul , Minnesota, seven hours
after players suing the league told her they want the financial
protection if she stays enforcement of her order ending the
lockout.  Nelson ruled “the lockout is enjoined” in her 89-page
decision on April 25. The owners immediately moved to appeal the
ruling and asked her to delay its implementation.  “There is no need to require the NFL to post a bond to
secure the plaintiffs’ rights while this preliminary injunction
is on appeal,” NFL attorneys told the court in a filing today.
“The plaintiffs do not suggest they have the slightest doubt of
the league’s ability to pay the players, or that this court
should have any doubt.”  Nelson’s lockout-ending order came in an antitrust lawsuit
filed last month by 10 players including Super Bowl-winning
quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees . League
policies and the lockout violate U.S. antitrust law, they
claimed.  The New York-based league ordered the lockout on March 12
after negotiations over a new collective bargaining agreement
collapsed. The NFL Players Association on March 11 announced it
would no longer act as a union. The Brady case was filed that
day.  Season Extension  The two sides disagree on how the 32-team league and the
players should split $9 billion in annual revenue, on extending
the regular season from 16 to 18 games, on a salary cap for
first-year players and on health care for the athletes.  With a lockout, the athletes don’t get paid and can’t
practice, and the NFL’s teams can’t sign or trade them.  The owners, arguing Nelson has no jurisdiction over the
labor dispute, have said they will ask the St. Louis-based U.S.
Court of Appeals for expedited briefing on their appeal of the
judge’s decision.  Players’ attorneys opposing a delay of the order pending
appeal today told Nelson the bond would protect them against
salary loss if 2011 season games are canceled and the lockout is
ultimately ruled illegal.  “The players would be entitled to recover the money they
lost, from the bond,” if they ultimately prevail, one of their
lawyers, James W. Quinn, said in a telephone interview today.  Nelson, in issuing her preliminary order, said the players
had a reasonable chance of success in their case.  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-cv-00639, U.S. District
Court, District of  Minnesota  (St. Paul).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  