-- 
NFL Players Ask Judge to Enforce Lockout Ban Against Owners Without Delay

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-04-27T19:04:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/nfl-players-ask-federal-judge-to-enforce-lockout-ban-deny-bid-for-delay.html
National Football League players
asked a U.S. judge not to postpone enforcement of her order
telling team owners to end their month-old player lockout.  The NFL on April 25 asked U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson in  St. Paul , Minnesota, to delay implementing the
decision she rendered that day while the league sought a
reversal from a federal appeals court.  “The court’s order is consistent with the decisions of
every other court that has ruled on the issues,” the players
said in a filing today opposing the NFL stay request or,
alternatively asking Nelson to order the league to post a $1
billion bond “to protect the players’ rights.”  Players’ lawyer James W. Quinn said the bond would protect
the athletes from any potential loss of salary caused by
cancellation of some 2011 season games while the lockout dispute
was still being litigated.  “The players would be entitled to recover the money they
lost, from the bond,” Quinn said, if they ultimately prevailed
on the issue of the lockout’s legality.  The NFL owners, in a letter to Nelson today, asked for time
to respond to the bond request. The judge gave them until 4 p.m.
to file their reply.  Nelson’s lockout-ending order came in an antitrust lawsuit
filed last month by 10 players including Super Bowl-winning
quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees . League
policies and the lockout violate U.S. antitrust law, they
claimed.  Reasonable Chance  Nelson, in issuing her preliminary order, said the players
had a reasonable chance of success in their case.  The league ordered the lockout on March 12 after
negotiations over a new collective bargaining agreement
collapsed. The NFL Players Association on March 11 announced it
would no longer act as a union. The Brady case was filed that
day.  The two sides disagree on how the 32-team league and the
players should split $9 billion in annual revenue, on extending
the regular season from 16 to 18 games, on a salary cap for
first-year players and on health care for the athletes.  With a lockout, the athletes don’t get paid and can’t
practice, and the NFL’s teams can’t sign or trade them.  The NFL has argued that Nelson didn’t have jurisdiction to
order an end to the lockout. The league has also said it will
ask a U.S. appeals court to expedite its review of her ruling.  ‘Irreparable Harm’  “Absent a stay, the NFL will suffer irreparable harm even
during the relatively short period of time necessary for this
case to be considered on appeal,” the league said.  “Lifting the lockout immediately is the only way to
preserve the 2011 season,” Richard Berthelsen, general counsel
for the players’ association, said in today’s filing.  Continuing the lockout will cause the NFL to lose as much
as $1 billion, Berthelsen argued.  “With the lockout enjoined, the clubs can go back to
operating their multibillion-dollar business and making enormous
amounts of money,” he said.  With the lockout ended, the NFL’s off-season can officially
begin, freeing about 500 players to seek places on teams of
their choice. The regular season is scheduled to begin Sept. 8.
NFL training camps usually open in July and August.  Court-assisted mediation of the dispute is scheduled to
resume on May 16.  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-cv-00639, U.S. District
Court, District of  Minnesota  (St. Paul).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 