-- 
Nigerian Banks Winning Mobius With Asia-Like Growth in Africa

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-04-27T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/nigerian-banks-winning-mobius-with-asia-like-growth-in-africa.html
Twenty-four miles northwest of
Accra in Ghana, Anthony Botchway rips a pineapple plant from the
ground with his bare hands. Wearing dirty boots, a short-sleeved
shirt and jeans, he looks like any other farmworker, in a region
where the  daily minimum wage  is less than $2.  The difference is that Botchway owns 7.2 million of the
pulpy, yellow fruits. He rose from poverty to become managing
director of Bomarts Farms Ltd., which owns and cultivates 3,000
acres (1,200 hectares) of land, partly because he got financial
help, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its June issue.  Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI) , which operates in more African
countries than any other bank, provided an initial loan of
$50,000 in 2002. Since then, Botchway has gone from peddling
goods on village streets to exporting his extra-sweet pineapples
to  Europe  and the Middle East.  “Any time I request a loan from Ecobank, I get
something,” the sinewy Botchway, 53, says with a smile at his
farm in Nsuobiri. “Though I may not get everything, it frees
funds for growth that would otherwise have been used to pay
salaries and bills.” He plans to double production to 14
million pineapples in the next few years.  In Africa, a continent that has been synonymous with
poverty, corruption and lagging development, an increasing
number of people like Botchway are improving their economic
standing. Sub-Saharan Africa will be the fastest-growing region
in the world, after developing  Asia , this year and in 2012,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Fastest-Growing  Six of the 20 projected fastest-growing countries this year
are in Africa. Among them are  Ghana , at 13.7 percent; Ethiopia,
at 8.5 percent; Angola, at 7.8 percent; and Mozambique, at 7.5
percent, the IMF says.  A move toward freer economies helped ignite the boom. In
the past decade, leaders in  Nigeria , Ghana and  Rwanda  have sold
state-owned industries, cut inflation and budgeted more
cautiously. Those shifts encouraged the Group of Eight nations
to agree in 2005 to let the World Bank, the IMF and the African
Development Bank cancel the debts of some poor countries
provided they met certain economic goals.  China ’s surging demand for copper, platinum and iron
ore has also fueled African economies. Today, the world’s most
populous country is the African continent’s biggest trading
partner.  The strong growth in the region comes on a very low base.
Poverty remains widespread: About 400 million Africans lived on
less than $1.25 a day in 2009, the World Bank estimates, while
200 million were unemployed. Corruption is still ingrained. Six
of the 10 most corrupt countries in the world are in  Africa ,
according to Berlin-based Transparency International.  Nigeria Violence  Political stability remains elusive in such countries as
Ivory Coast, where President Laurent Gbagbo clung to power for
four months after losing an election to Alassane Ouattara.
Gbagbo was dislodged in April with the aid of French and United
Nations military forces. In Nigeria, at least 600 people have
died in the predominantly Muslim north in violence triggered by
the April 16 re-election of President Goodluck Jonathan, said
the Kaduna-based Civil Rights Congress.  Still, more Africans are becoming less poor. By 2015, 221
million African consumers will advance from destitution to
basic-needs status, making from $1,000 to $5,000 a year,
according to a McKinsey & Co. analysis of data from IHS Global
Insight, a subsidiary of Englewood, Colorado-based data provider
IHS Inc.  There’s more prosperity to come, says Arnold Ekpe, chief
executive officer of Ecobank, which has expanded into 32 of
Africa’s 53 countries from its base in Lome, the capital of
French-speaking Togo.  Retail Lending  The bank increased retail lending more than fivefold from
2005 to 2010, to $5.3 billion, in the region Ekpe calls Middle
Africa--spanning from Kenya in the east to Guinea-Bissau in the
west and from just below the Sahara to just above  South Africa .  “Middle Africa is the fastest-growing part of Africa, and
it’s also some of the richest parts of Africa,” Ekpe says.
“That’s where the oil, the diamonds, the iron ore and the gold
are.”  The 32 countries in Middle Africa as defined by Ekpe are
together expected to grow 6.5 percent in 2011, based on a
weighted average derived by Bloomberg from IMF statistics.  The doubling of the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw
materials since 2005 explains much of Africa’s boom. The
continent contains the world’s biggest deposits of platinum,
diamonds and manganese. It’s also a significant producer of oil,
coal, copper and bauxite, which is used to make aluminum.  Growth Without Minerals  Commodities can’t explain all of Africa’s growth, though.
Gross domestic product rose more than 5 percent last year in
such East African nations as Tanzania, Uganda and Rwanda, which
all lack the mineral wealth of western and southern Africa.  National leaders are altering economic policies to avoid
past mistakes, says Paul Collier, director of the Centre for the
Study of African Economies at Oxford University and author of
“The Bottom Billion” (Oxford University, 2007).  “If you go back 10 years ago, these countries were highly
indebted, with very stressed fiscal positions,” he says. “Now,
they’ll be the envy of any European country.”  In Nigeria, for instance, government debt is 16 percent of
GDP, compared with 130 percent in Greece, 94 percent in Ireland
and 83 percent in Portugal, according to IMF figures. In 2004,
the government of Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo started
basing its budget on oil at $23 a barrel to ensure that price
declines wouldn’t cause deficits to soar.  Arrears Repaid  Any excess was saved in a separate account that enabled the
country to repay $6 billion in borrowing arrears, helping secure
$18 billion of relief on debt that totaled $36 billion in 2004.  From 1999 to 2006, Nigeria sold off more than 116 state-
owned enterprises, according to McKinsey. President Jonathan is
selling power generation and distribution companies this year to
expand capacity and end chronic electricity shortages.  Nigeria’s central bank has been a trailblazer for economic
change. In 2009, amid a 46 percent slump in local stocks and a
halving of  oil prices , Nigerian banks were left with $10 billion
of bad debts on their books.  Lamido Sanusi, the central bank governor, fired the CEOs of
eight of the nation’s 24 lenders and pumped the equivalent of $4
billion into ailing institutions. Later, he created an entity to
buy the debt.  “I was shocked by the magnitude of the debt crisis,”
Sanusi says in an interview in his office in Abuja. “Cleaning
up the system and making sure people were held to account was
our contribution to reforming the industry.”  ‘Top Reformer’  The turnaround has been especially striking in Rwanda, the
landlocked coffee-producing country that was devastated by a
1994 genocide. About 800,000 people, most of them members of the
Tutsi minority, were killed. Today, Rwanda’s economy is growing
at 5.9 percent annually, and much of the infrastructure
destroyed during the killings has been rebuilt.  In 2009, the World Bank named Rwanda the “top reformer”
for making the most business-friendly changes to its
regulations. It takes just three days to register a company in
Rwanda, compared with an average of 45 days in sub-Saharan
Africa and 13.8 days in Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development countries, the World Bank says.  Ecobank is just one of the many banks trying to tap into
this economic growth.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
all plan to expand in Africa.  Mobius Buys Nigeria  Mark Mobius , the Singapore-based executive chairman of
Templeton Asset Management’s Emerging Markets Group, has been
buying shares of Nigerian banks.  “Hitting on banks is the first step” toward reaching
Africa’s growing middle class, says Mobius, whose $1 billion
Frontier Markets Fund had 12.3 percent of its investments in
Nigeria at the end of 2010. The fund, which returned 74 percent
from its inception in 2008 to the end of 2010, owns shares in
Nigeria’s United Bank for Africa Plc and  Zenith Bank Plc. (ZENITHBA)   Ecobank, founded in 1985, is one of the few private lenders
based in and focused on Middle Africa. Ekpe, 57, says the bank
aims to cater to working people and smaller companies, not just
existing customers such as the African units of brewer SABMiller
Plc and food company  Nestle SA. (NESN)   Half of the region’s population is younger than 20 years
old, and there’s an emerging middle class. That gives Middle
Africa “terrific demographics,” he says. With assets of $10
billion -- more than twice the size of Togo’s GDP -- the bank
has more than 3 million customers.  Mechanical Engineering  Ekpe, who’s tall and slim and who wears a dark-blue suit,
glasses and a mustache during a meeting in Lome, was born in a
part of the Cameroons that later voted not to join Nigeria. He
received a first-class honors degree in mechanical engineering
at the  University of Manchester  in the U.K. and a Master of
Business Administration from Manchester Business School.  After running Citibank’s corporate and structured trade
finance unit for sub-Saharan Africa, he joined Ecobank as CEO in
1996. He left to work for United Bank for Africa and private-
equity firm Africa Capital Alliance before being lured back to
Ecobank in 2005.  Ecobank is visible across Middle Africa, with its signage
often dominating the hazy skyline in Lome or welcoming airport
arrivals in Benin. The only country in Africa that Ekpe hasn’t
visited is piracy-stricken Somalia.  No Market Fear  “It helps with a lack of fear of these markets,” Ekpe
says over lunch at L’Hibiscus in Lome, where he wields tongs and
a fork to consume a plate of escargots. “Africa doesn’t scare
me the way it scares most people.”  Even so, Ecobank has faced some harrowing moments. The
bank’s profit dropped 46 percent in 2009 after 10 Nigerian banks
failed an audit by that country’s central bank and required
government support, causing a drop in asset values and a stock
market slump. It proved to be a short-lived crisis for Ecobank:
Full-year profit in 2010 more than doubled to $112.7 million as
net interest income rose and bad loans dropped.  Ekpe says Ecobank’s rapid expansion -- it added 136
branches in 2009 -- is partly to blame for the mediocre results
that year. “Profit margins are low because of the cost of
growth,” he says. “Banking is a marathon, not a sprint.”  Consistent financial success has been elusive for other
banks in Africa, too.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  failed to expand on the
continent after it said in 2005 that its purchase of a
controlling stake in South Africa’s Absa Group Ltd. would allow
it to become “the pre-eminent bank of the African continent.”  ‘Terrific Opportunity’  Since then, Absa has sold units in Namibia and Angola and
now operates in only two countries outside of South Africa:
Mozambique and Tanzania. Barclays is undeterred: In February,
CEO Robert Diamond said that Africa “presents a terrific
opportunity.”  The financial results are apparent at Standard Chartered,
the U.K. bank with 148 years of history in Africa and assets
worth almost $16 billion in 14 countries. Operating profit in
Africa rose almost 10 percent to $103 million in 2010.  Part of the long-term challenge is hunting down customers
on a continent where as many as 260 million people, or 80
percent of the adult population, have no bank account, according
to McKinsey research.  Investec, a South African private bank and wealth manager,
sees opportunity. Banks in Nigeria have granted loans of an
average of $350 per person, in a country with a population of
150 million, says Chris Derksen, head of frontier markets at
Cape Town-based Investec Asset Management, which says it is the
biggest fund investor in Africa.  Loan Potential  In South Africa, the average amount is $5,000, while in
 Brazil , it’s $1,500, he says. “It gives you an idea of the low
penetration of banking in a very big market like Nigeria,”
Derksen says.  Ecobank is trying to increase its reach by getting business
customers to become personal-banking clients. “We aim to have
the managing director of each company as a private customer as
well as the financial director and the deputy managing
director,” says Nanan Ayoko Eugenie Adjahoto, head of  Ecobank
Togo . “We map them. It’s like a tree. We call them and ask them
to talk to us. We can see people are earning more.”  Because many Africans lack a credit record and don’t earn
enough to qualify for loans, Ecobank arranges facilities for
private companies to extend loans to their workers, while
encouraging governments to set up credit bureaus and judicial
systems equipped to deal swiftly with defaulting customers.  Nicoue Raoul Amoyi, manager of the Ecobank branch in Lome’s
Tokoin neighborhood, says he increased the number of his
customers by 18 percent in 2010 to 6,500 individual and
commercial clients.  Evening Approval  Ecobank’s attention to business owners helped win over
Roger Bassowou, managing director of electrical equipment
supplier Tiex & Co., based in Lome.  Bassowou, 44, sits in a large office with black leather
sofas and a television that’s constantly switched on, in a squat
building next door to a noisy bar. He’s surrounded by bits and
pieces of electrical equipment for power stations. After
struggling to get financing, Bassowou turned to Ecobank in 2004.  “I once needed an urgent loan of 95 million Central
African francs,” he recalls. “Ecobank called me at 9 p.m. and
said it was approved. I was able to sleep that night.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net . 