-- 
Nigeria’s Ruling Party Takes Early Lead in State Elections, Results Show

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-27T16:28:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/nigeria-s-ruling-party-takes-early-lead-in-state-elections-results-show.html
Nigeria’s ruling  People’s
Democratic Party  took the lead in early results from yesterday’s
vote for state governors and legislatures in  Africa ’s top oil
producer, the electoral commission said.  The party, known as PDP, won in the southeastern Enugu
state and the central Kwara state and is leading in seven
others, including Rivers in the southeast and Jigawa, Kebbi,
Niger and Benue in the north. The opposition Action Congress of
Nigeria captured Lagos state, which includes the commercial
capital, and is leading in three other southwestern regions.  While the elections were largely peaceful, there were
incidents of ballot snatching and intimidation of voters in some
areas, including Lagos in the southwest, Rivers and Benue,
according to Reclaim Naija, a monitor group tracking the
incidents on its  website .  “The deployment of soldiers in potentially volatile parts
of the country appears to have reduced the levels of violence,
including thuggery and ballot-box snatching,” the  Nigeria 
Election Situation Room, a coalition of 22 civic groups
monitoring the election, said today in an e-mailed statement.  All results are expected within 48 hours of the closure of
polling stations. Collation of votes continued today after many
ballots came in late from remote districts, according to the
Independent National Electoral Commission.  Riots  The vote, which took place in 26 of 36 states, is expected
to reduce the number of governors who are members of the ruling
PDP after its parliamentary majority was cut in April 9
legislative elections.  Elections in the northern states of Bauchi and Kaduna were
delayed by two days after President Goodluck Jonathan’s victory
in the April 16 presidential vote triggered riots across the
mainly Muslim north. At least 600 people were killed in the
violence, the Kaduna-based  Civil Rights Congress  said April 25.  The remaining states will hold their elections when the
tenures of the current governors run out.  “Voter turnout has been quite low in the northern states
due to fears of violence,” Jibrin Ibrahim, director of the
Abuja-based  Center for Democracy and Development , which is
monitoring the elections, said by phone yesterday.  Many voters in the region also stayed away from the polls
out of disappointment that former military leader  Muhammadu Buhari , a Muslim from the north, lost the presidential election,
he said.  North-South Divide  Nigeria, with a population of more than 150 million people,
is roughly split between a mainly Christian south and a north
dominated by Muslims. While Buhari won all 12 northern states,
Jonathan, a Christian, took 23 of 24 central and southern
states.  Under Nigeria’s federal system, state governments control a
significant share of national revenue, more than 80 percent of
which comes from oil exports, make their own laws and run
regional administrations.  A blast went off at a security checkpoint early yesterday
in the northeastern city of Maiduguri without hurting anyone,
two days after multiple explosions in the same city killed three
people and injured 14 others, police said.  Authorities in Nigeria’s north have blamed a group known as
Boko Haram, which draws inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban
movement, for a spate of bomb attacks and killings targeting
government officials and security forces since last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net . 