-- 
Nigeria May Impose Emergency Rule in Two Northern States, President Says

-- B y   T o n y   T a m u n o
-- 
2011-04-27T10:22:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/nigeria-may-impose-emergency-rule-in-two-northern-states-president-says.html
Nigeria  may impose emergency rule
in the northern states of Kaduna and Bauchi if they’re unable to
hold elections for governors and legislatures by April 29,
President  Goodluck Jonathan  said.  Elections must be held 30 days before the scheduled May 29
inauguration of the president and the governors, he told
reporters yesterday in southern town of Otuoke in Bayelsa state.
If they don’t take place, “we have no choice than to declare a
state of emergency even if there is peace,” he said.  Under a state of emergency, the federal government in
Abuja, the capital, would appoint an administrator to run the
states for as long as the measure is in place.  Nigeria’s electoral commission decided on a two-day delay
in the two states for elections for governors and legislators
that were held elsewhere yesterday. The commission acted after
the mainly Muslim supporters of opposition candidate Muhammadu Buhari, who lost the April 16 presidential vote, attacked
backers of Jonathan and clashed with Christians in at least five
northern states including Kaduna and Bauchi.  At least 600 people were killed in the violence, the
Kaduna-based  Civil Rights Congress  said on April 25. Another
39,000 residents have been displaced and 410 people injured,
according to the Nigerian Red Cross.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous country, with more than 150
million people, is roughly split between a mainly Christian
south and a north dominated by Muslims. While Buhari won all 12
northern states, Jonathan took 23 of 24 central and southern
states.  A judicial commission will be established to investigate
the causes of the violence, Jonathan said on April 21. Troops
have been deployed across the north and authorized to “use all
means, including justifiable force” to quell violence, he said.
A night-time curfew is in place in the two states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Tamuno in  Port Harcourt , Nigeria via Abuja at 
3294 or  dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 