-- 
Singapore Ruling Party Faces Widest Election Contest as Nominations Close

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-04-27T07:42:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/nominations-close-for-singapore-election-as-opposition-widens-battleground.html
Nominations of candidates for
 Singapore ’s May 7 election closed today as Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s ruling party prepares to face the country’s most
widely contested vote in decades.  The ruling People’s Action Party faces a contest in 82 out
of 87 parliamentary seats, the Elections Department said in an
e-mailed response today after nominations closed at 12:30 p.m.
At the last elections, the ruling party was uncontested in 37 of
the 84 parliamentary seats.  Lee, whose father Lee Kuan Yew was the island’s first prime
minister, called for elections after his government delivered
record economic growth in 2010. Singapore’s expansion has
spurred inflation and pushed  home prices  to a record, prompting
some citizens to debate the rising cost of living and urge the
government to limit the influx of foreign workers.  “The incumbents have to put in more effort to reassure
voters that they are on top of issues such as the increasing
cost of living,” said Song Seng-Wun, an economist at CIMB
Research Pte. in Singapore. “These are issues that will be
exploited by the opposition. The PAP will have to work harder
this time.”  Lee Stronghold  Minister Mentor  Lee Kuan Yew , who was prime minister from
1959 to 1990, will return to parliament unopposed as his Tanjong
Pagar constituency, which has five seats in the lawmaking body,
won’t be challenged by opposition candidates, the Elections
Department said. That would mean that 2.21 million of the 2.35
million eligible voters will go to the polls on May 7, based on
official voter numbers derived from Elections Department data.  The last polls, held on May 6, 2006, returned the PAP to
power with about 67 percent of the votes cast, down from 75
percent in the 2001 elections. Lee’s party has ruled the city
state since before independence in 1965.  Singapore’s dollar has risen to records this month and is
the best performer in  Asia  excluding  Japan  in the past year
against the U.S. currency, as the central bank allowed further
gains to tame inflation. The currency traded as high as S$1.2301
a dollar today, the strongest level since at least 1981 when
Bloomberg data began. The benchmark  stock index  has climbed
about 2 percent since parliament was dissolved on April 19.  The  parliament  that was dissolved last week to make way for
the May election was made up of 82 PAP lawmakers, two elected
opposition politicians, one non-elected opposition member and
nine non-elected independents. A law passed last year allowed as
many as nine opposition politicians to sit in the legislative
body even if the candidates lose.  Casinos, Services  Since he took office in August 2004, Lee lifted a ban on
casinos, cut corporate taxes and boosted the financial and legal
services industries to reduce the nation’s reliance on exports.  Gross domestic product increased at an annual rate of 23.5
percent last quarter from the previous three months and the
government predicts an expansion of as much as 6 percent this
year. The economy grew a record 14.5 percent last year and wages
increased an average 5.6 percent.  Singapore’s consumer prices are forecast by the central
bank to be at the upper end of the 3 percent to 4 percent range
in 2011, prompting the central bank to tighten monetary policy
for the third time in a year this month. Policy makers in
January introduced more measures to curb property speculation
after private home prices and transactions reached records.
Attempts to rein in property prices had started in 2009.  Wealth Gap  The gap between Singapore’s most affluent and poorest
people widened last year as higher wage earners received bigger
increases in income.  Singapore’s  Gini coefficient , a measure of  income
inequality , climbed to 0.48 last year from 0.478 in 2009,
according to the statistics department. A reading of zero means
income equality, while a reading of one means complete income
inequality.  Immigration has been a key component of Singapore’s
population and economic strategy.  Hundreds of thousands of people were granted citizenship
and permanent residence in the past five years, as companies
brought in workers for hotels, shipyards and restaurants. The
population has increased by about 810,000 people since the end
of 2005, government figures show.  Singaporeans have not been disadvantaged by the
government’s labor strategy as the influx of foreign workers has
boosted the economy, Prime Minister Lee said last week.  Creating Jobs  “By allowing in a controlled number of foreign workers,
far from disadvantaging our own people, we have created more
good jobs for Singaporeans and more opportunities in our
economy,” Lee said.  Still, the government has responded to Singaporeans’
concern that the island’s immigration policy led to crowded
public transportation, more competition with newcomers for jobs,
public housing and places in choice schools for their children.
Lee said in August the government will spend S$60 billion over
the next decade to develop and double its rail network.  He has also said the government will slow the pace of
immigration because the country can’t increase its population by
more than 100,000 a year indefinitely.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 Jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net  