-- 
Novartis’s Mundel Says New Pill Gilenya Has Yet to Show ‘Full Potential'

-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 
2011-04-27T09:50:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/novartis-s-mundel-says-new-pill-gilenya-has-yet-to-show-full-potential-.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s multiple sclerosis
pill Gilenya, which faces a threat from a rival product under
development by  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , has yet to show its full
potential, the Swiss drugmaker’s head of development said.  Gilenya, approved by U.S. regulators last year as the first
pill against relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, may also
work in patients with a more severe form of the disease called
primary progressive, Novartis’s Trevor Mundel said yesterday in
a telephone interview. “We haven’t seen the full potential with
Gilenya,” according to Mundel.  Biogen last week reported advanced clinical test results on
its own experimental pill, called BG-12, that suggested it may
become patients’ best treatment option and prompted some
analysts to slash their sales forecasts for Gilenya.  Seamus Fernandez  of Leerink Swann & Co. cut his Gilenya estimate to
$1.5 billion from $3.1 billion for 2017 after what he described
as Biogen’s “impressive” study results.  The data on BG-12 was “pretty good,” though it’s also
“somewhat partial” because Weston, Massachusetts-based Biogen
did not disclose absolute numbers when it said that a twice-
daily dose of the pill reduced the proportion of patients whose
disease flared up by 49 percent over two years, Mundel said.  Multiple sclerosis affects about 2.1 million people in the
world, including 400,000 patients in the U.S., according to the
 National Multiple Sclerosis Society .  The chronic disease attacks the central nervous system and
can cause numbness in limbs, paralysis and vision loss. Gilenya,
developed by Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis, blunts the
attack by targeting white blood cells that harm the protective
coating of nerve cells.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  