-- 
NYSE Board Is Failing Owners by Rebuffing Nasdaq, Legg Mason’s Miller Says

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-04-27T20:09:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/nyse-board-is-failing-owners-by-rebuffing-nasdaq-legg-mason-s-miller-says.html
Bill Miller  of  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , the
fifth-biggest shareholder of NYSE Euronext, said the failure of
the exchange operator’s board to meet with  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) 
is inconsistent with its obligations to owners.  “We think it is in the shareholder’s interest that the
board work to maximize value for owners,” Miller wrote in an e-
mail to Bloomberg News today. “We don’t see how being unwilling
to meet with Nasdaq furthers that goal.”  Twice this month, NYSE Euronext rejected a joint bid from
Nasdaq OMX and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  that was worth 12
percent more as of 4 p.m.  New York  time than Deutsche Boerse
AG’s Feb. 15 agreement to purchase the company.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  shareholders meet tomorrow to reelect board
members and consider a proposal giving two or more owners with a
total stake of at least 10 percent the right to call special
meetings, where issues such as bids that executives don’t favor
can be voted on. Legg Mason owned 2.9 percent of New York-based
NYSE Euronext on Dec. 31, while T. Rowe Price Group Inc. had a
7.3 percent stake.  “Neither of these deals is without risk,” Ian McDonald, a
Baltimore-based U.S. exchanges analyst at T. Rowe Price, said on
April 10. The “spread between the offers seems quite large even
if it was obvious that one deal was riskier than the other.
Shareholders can’t and hopefully won’t ignore that.”  Biggest Holders  Legg Mason, based in Baltimore, owned 7.48 million shares
of NYSE Euronext as of Dec. 31. That makes it the fifth-biggest
owner, according to ISS Proxy Advisory Services, the shareholder
advisory unit of New York-based MSCI Inc. Miller is the chairman
and chief investment officer of Legg Mason Capital Management
Inc. T. Rowe Price held 19.1 million NYSE Euronext shares,
making it the biggest owner.  NYSE Euronext agreed on Feb. 15 to an all-stock deal with
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , a move that would create the world’s largest
stock exchange operator. Nasdaq OMX of New York and Atlanta’s
ICE made their first offer April 1 and sweetened it on April 19
with a $350 million reverse breakup fee and firmer funding
commitments from lenders. NYSE Euronext’s board held to its
rejection, saying the companies’ offer still faced
“unacceptable” hurdles from antitrust regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  