-- 
Obama’s Appearance on Oprah Seen About ‘Reconnecting’ with Women Voters

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-04-28T03:32:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/obama-s-appearance-on-oprah-seen-about-reconnecting-with-women-voters.html
President  Barack Obama  sat for an
interview on  “The Oprah Winfrey Show”  today, getting a
friendly forum that appeals to women, one of the key
constituencies that helped him win the White House in 2008.  “This visit on the Oprah show is all about reconnecting
with women, white, black and Hispanic,” said Wendy Schiller, a
political science professor at  Brown University  in Providence,
 Rhode Island . “When Oprah speaks, millions of women listen.”  The program, which is ending next month after 25 years on
the air, averages 7 million viewers a day, 75 percent of whom
are women, according to  Nielsen Co.  ratings information through
April 17. Fifty-six percent of women voted for Obama in the 2008
presidential election compared with 43 percent who voted for
Republican candidate  John McCain , according to exit poll results
posted on  CNN’s website .  Obama’s appearance is scheduled for broadcast on May 2, and
Winfrey’s production company embargoed the content until that
day, except for excerpts it is distributing. The president went
to Winfrey’s Chicago studio after releasing a copy of his  long-
form birth certificate  from Hawaii in an effort to end what he
said was the “silliness” of the debate over his citizenship,
which was distracting from discussion of the nation’s future.  Birth Certificate  “During the course of this major debate where I gave a big
speech and the Republicans voted on their proposal, the biggest
news was this birth certificate thing,” Obama said in an
excerpt from the show released today by Winfrey’s production
company.  Obama said he hoped release of the certificate would put
the question to rest.  Since the president filed paperwork with the  Federal
Election Commission  on April 4 to begin his bid for re-election,
he has been traveling across the country to make the case for a
second term.  The sluggish economy and an  unemployment rate  that reached
a 26-year high of 10.2 percent nine months after he took office,
and is now 8.8 percent, have driven down his approval ratings.
In the daily Gallup tracking poll conducted April 23-25, 43
percent of those surveyed said they approved of the job he is
doing and 48 percent disapproved. In the 2010 midterm elections,
Republicans won control of the U.S. House and gained seats in
the Senate.  For 2012, the president is seeking to revive enthusiasm
among women and young voters, two groups who were crucial to his
victory in 2008.  ‘So Much Buzz’  Schiller said Winfrey “generated so much buzz” for Obama
in 2008, making it a wise move for him to go on her program as
he starts campaigning for 2012.  “He is going to need every single vote he can get,”
Schiller said in an interview.  “Clearly this is a way to talk to the constituency that
Oprah brings,” said Robert Thompson, a professor of television
and popular culture at  Syracuse University  in New York. “One of
the tricks he’s got up his sleeves is to go on television
shows.”  Obama was joined on the show by his wife,  Michelle Obama .  Winfrey is ending her afternoon talk show, which is
distributed by  CBS Corp. (CBS) , to focus on a cable channel she
started with  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) , based in  Silver
Spring ,  Maryland . The 24-hour  Oprah Winfrey Network  began in
January.  Raising Money  After his appearance on Winfrey’s show, Obama traveled to
 New York City  for three fundraising events for the  Democratic
National Committee  and his campaign.  About 60 donors attended a dinner at the Upper East Side
apartment of former New Jersey Senator and Governor  Jon Corzine ,
a former chairman of Goldman Sachs. Obama started his remarks by
commenting on his decision to release the long-form version of
his birth certificate.  “Part of what happened this morning was me trying to
remind the press and trying to remind both parties that what we
do in politics is not a reality show,” he said. “It’s
serious.”  He also acknowledged that he hasn’t been able to change the
tenor of the discourse in  Washington  as he had promised in 2008.  “Politics is as polarized as ever,” he said. “It is my
intention to make sure that as hopeful as 2008 was I want 2012
to be an election in which we’re not just talking slogans.”  Values, Not Numbers  At a dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel, attended by about
350 supporters including  New York  Democratic Senators Chuck Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and basketball player  Carmelo Anthony  of the  New York Knicks , the president said the budget
debate is “not about numbers, it is about values.”  On one side, he said, is a vision of a “shrunken America
where those of us who are lucky do great and don’t have to give
anything back.” The other vision is that “we can live within
our means” and make “sure that the burden is shared.”  Among those attending the events were Orin Kramer of Boston
Provident Partners LP, Dan Neidich of Dune Real Estate Partners
LP, Charles Myers and Ralph Schlosstein of Evercore Partners
Inc., Marc Spilker of Apollo Global Management LLP, Leon Wagner
of Goldentree Asset Management LP, Bill Derrough of Moelis & Co.,
Rodge Cohen of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and Frank Brosens of
Taconic Capital Advisors LP, according to a party official who
was not authorized to discuss fundraising matters publicly and
spoke on condition of anonymity. In the 2008 campaign, Obama
received more money from employees of the securities and
investment sector than from those in any other single industry,
according to the Washington-based  Center for Responsive Politics ,
which studies the influence of money on the political process.  Standing Ovation  About 1,300 people were in the audience at the final
“Gen44” event for younger supporters at the Town Hall, a
concert venue in New York’s theater district, where Obama’s
opening line
-- “My name is Barack Obama; I was born in  Hawaii ; no one
checked my ID on the way in” -- was greeted with a standing
ovation.  Ticket prices for the three fundraisers ranged from $44 for
the “Gen44” event to the legal maximum of $35,800. The events
are expected to raise a total of $2 million to $3 million, the
party official said.  Analysts say they expect the 2012 presidential election to
cost $3 billion, about 50 percent more than the $2 billion the
Federal Election Commission said was spent in 2008 by candidates,
the political parties and outside groups. Obama raised a record
$745 million in 2007 and 2008 for his presidential campaign and
was the first major-party nominee to reject public financing for
the general election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  