-- 
Radiation Readings in Fukushima Reactor Rise to Highest Since Crisis Began

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a
-- 
2011-04-27T09:14:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/tokyo-water-radiation-falls-to-zero-for-first-time-since-crisis.html
Radiation readings at  Japan ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi station rose to the highest since an
earthquake and tsunami knocked out cooling systems, impeding
efforts to contain the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  Two robots sent into the reactor No. 1 building at the
plant yesterday took readings as high as 1,120 millisierverts of
radiation per hour, Junichi Matsumoto, a general manager at
Tokyo Electric Power Co., said today. That’s more than four
times the annual dose permitted to nuclear workers at the
stricken plant.  Radiation from the station, where four of six reactors have
been damaged by explosions, has forced the evacuation of tens of
thousands of people and contaminated farmland and drinking
water. A plan to flood the containment vessel of reactor No. 1
with more water to speed up emergency cooling efforts announced
yesterday by the utility known as Tepco may not be possible now.  “Tepco must figure out the source of high radiation,”
said Hironobu Unesaki, a nuclear engineering professor at  Kyoto
University . “If it’s from contaminated water leaking from
inside the reactor, Tepco’s so-called water tomb may be
jeopardized because flooding the containment vessel will result
in more radiation in the building.”  Decontaminating Robots  Tepco plans to decontaminate the two iRobot Corp. Packbot
robots before sending them into a building tomorrow or later to
further investigate the damage, spokesman Takeo Iwamoto said.
High radiation in the reactor buildings prevents engineers from
working inside them, Iwamoto said.  The cores in reactors 1, 2 and 3 and the spent fuels rods
in reactor 4 have been damaged. Tepco has been using fire
trucks, concrete pumps and other emergency measures for nearly
seven weeks to pour millions of liters of water to cool the
units after the accident.  Tepco started moving the radioactive water, which leaked to
the basements and trenches, to a waste storage facility on April
19. Tepco transferred 1.89 million liters of the water from the
trenches near reactor No. 2 as of 7 a.m. today, Iwamoto said.
The utility plans to install a second pump after transferring
2.5 million liters.  Less Damage  Tepco shares fell 3.3 percent to 412 yen today in  Tokyo .
The shares are down about 80 percent since the quake and tsunami
struck on March 11, leaving almost 26,000 people dead or
missing.  Reactors 1 and 2 are less damaged than estimated, Tepco
said in a statement today.  As much as 55 percent of the No. 1 reactor core at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi station was damaged, compared with its
earlier estimate of 70 percent.  “We revised the core damage data because some readings on
the containment vessel monitors were wrong,” Matsumoto said.
“There was also a recording mistake. We are investigating why
this happened.”  The assessment for the No. 2 reactor was cut to 25 percent
from 35 percent, while that for the No. 3 unit was raised to 30
percent from 25 percent.  “It seems a reasonable estimate that three reactor cores
may be damaged to a similar extent,” said Unesaki. The new
estimate “doesn’t indicate lower or higher risks at the
plant.”  Radiation in Tokyo’s water supply fell to undetectable
levels for the first time since March 18, the capital’s  public
health  institute said today.  The level of iodine-131 in tap water fell to zero
yesterday, and cesium-134 and cesium-137 also weren’t detected,
the Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Public Health said today.  Tokyo residents were told on March 23 that the city’s water
was unsafe for infants after iodine and cesium levels exceeded
guidelines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  