-- 
Home-Vacancy Rate Drops in First Quarter as U.S. Foreclosures Are Stalled

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-04-27T15:39:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/home-vacancy-rate-drops-in-first-quarter-as-u-s-foreclosures-are-stalled.html
The U.S. home-vacancy rate, a
measure of the share of properties empty and for sale, fell to
2.6 percent in the first quarter as foreclosures slowed amid a
lender backlog in processing paperwork.  The rate, down from 2.7 percent in the fourth quarter, is
based on 2 million vacant properties for sale out of 74.5
million residences, the Census Bureau said today. A gauge
measuring the share of people who own their homes dropped to
66.4 percent, the lowest since 1998, according to the report.  Property seizures plunged at the end of 2010 as lenders
including Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
temporarily halted proceedings to review their handling of court
documents. That left more homes in the foreclosure process with
their status unresolved, typically with their owners still in
residence. Borrowers in foreclosure were in their homes for an
average of 537 days in February, a record, according to Lender
Processing Services Inc. in Jacksonville,  Florida .  “The legal problems with foreclosures and how things have
slowed down would have an effect on the vacancy rate as opposed
to when foreclosures were going full steam ahead,” said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in
 New York .  U.S. foreclosure filings dropped 27 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier to the lowest level since 2008 as
lenders worked through their paperwork backlog, according to
RealtyTrac Inc. of  Irvine ,  California .  Falling Home Ownership  The home-ownership rate dropped from 66.5 percent in the
last three months of 2010. It has fallen for every quarter since
mid-2009, according to Census data. The rate reached an all-time
high of 69.2 percent in 2004 as relaxed lending standards fueled
home sales and President  George W. Bush  promoted an “ownership
society” in his re-election bid.  The residential vacancy rate reached a record 2.9 percent
in the first and fourth quarters of 2008, the year Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed and American International
Group Inc. was taken over by the government.  Attorneys general  across the U.S. and federal regulators
began separate probes of the mortgage-servicing industry late
last year amid allegations of shoddy foreclosure practices such
as robo-signing, or using workers with little or no training to
sign thousands of documents filed in support of property
seizures without reading them. The investigations were broadened
to include all aspects of the servicing business.  Earlier this month, regulators announced settlements with
the 14 largest U.S. mortgage servicers. The companies agreed to
review all foreclosed loans from 2009 and 2010, and pay back
losses in cases that were mishandled. They also will improve
procedures by hiring staff, upgrading document-tracking systems
and assigning a single point of contact for each borrower. The
banks didn’t admit or deny regulators’ findings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Kathleen M. Howley} in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  