-- 
TomTom Cuts Forecast on Portable Devices, North America

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-04-27T09:22:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/tomtom-cuts-revenue-forecast-on-portable-devices-north-america.html
TomTom NV (TOM2) ,  Europe ’s biggest maker
of portable navigation devices, cut its full-year revenue
forecast, citing a slowdown in demand in  North America .  TomTom now expects 2011 revenue to be in a range of
1.425 billion euros ($2.1 billion) to 1.475 billion euros, the
Amsterdam-based company said today in a statement. The
manufacturer initially had forecast “broadly flat” sales
compared with 2010, when revenue was 1.52 billion euros. First-
quarter sales fell 1.2 percent to 265.1 million euros, missing
the 278.5 million-euro average estimate of analysts.  ‘We are in a phase of transition,” Chief Executive Officer
Harold Goddijn said in the statement. “The European market
developed more or less in line with our expectations. The North
American market however showed a more negative trend toward the
end of the quarter.”  TomTom fell as much as 8.1 percent to 5.80 euros in
Amsterdam trading and was down 3 percent as of 11:06 a.m. The
stock has plunged 22 percent this year, giving TomTom a market
value of 1.36 billion euros.  TomTom’s low valuation and strong  cash flow  make the
company a candidate for a public-to-private transaction, Maurits Heldring, an analyst at  ABN Amro , wrote in a note to investors
on April 18, when he initiated coverage with a “buy”
recommendation.  ‘Different Scenarios’  “There are different scenarios you could think of, and
people write a lot about it, but I don’t think it is appropriate
to respond,” Goddijn said in an interview. The CEO and other
founders of the company own 47.1 percent of TomTom’s shares,
Bloomberg data show.  The decline in the market for personal navigation devices
will be in the range of 15 percent to 20 percent this year,
Goddijn said on a conference call. The drop in North America is
due to competition from other portable navigation devices and
tablet computers, as well as “the fact that consumer sentiment
is still weak,” the CEO said.  TomTom, which competes with  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
aims to get more revenue from maps, services and built-in
systems in cars amid a slowdown in sales of portable navigation
devices, or PNDs. The company also faces increasing competition
from smartphones such as Apple’s IPhone and handsets running
Google’s Android System that feature similar services.  First-quarter net income amounted to 10.6 million euros,
compared with 3.1 million euros a year earlier, TomTom said
today. That beat the average analyst estimate of 3.5 million.  “The revenue decline does not impact the profitability as
a result of a lower cost base,” said Niels de Zwart, an analyst
at ING Wholesale Banking. De Zwart said investors will focus on
the lower revenue outlook today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  