-- 
London Olympics Say More Than Half of Events Oversubscribed

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-04-27T15:35:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/london-2012-olympics-has-sold-25-percent-of-luxury-hospitality-packages.html
Track cycling, triathlon and
equestrian competitions are among the more than 50 percent of
events in the  London Olympics  that are oversubscribed and will
go to ballot, organizers said.  Rhythmic gymnastics, modern pentathlon and the opening and
closing ceremonies also have more ticket applications than seats
available, the  London  2012 organizing committee said today in an
e-mailed statement. The majority of the swimming and tennis
sessions will also go to ballot.  “We are thrilled with the response right across the board,
in all sports and all sessions,” chairman Sebastian Coe said in
the statement. Prices range from 20 pounds a seat for a few
events to 2,012 pounds ($3,324) for the most expensive spots at
the opening and closing ceremonies.  More than 20 million tickets were applied for, with about
1.8 million people entering the ballot. More than half of the
650 sessions will go to a ticket lottery as part of the six-week
process, which ended last night and made 6.6 million seats
available for events in next year’s Summer Games.  The July 27 opening ceremony has been ten times
oversubscribed, Coe said. “There will understandably be
disappointment and we will find a way to go back to those people
with other tickets,” he said.  The demand for luxury corporate hospitality packages has
not been as strong as the public ballot. About a quarter of
hospitality packages costing as much as 4,500 pounds a person
have been sold so far,  Prestige Ticketing Ltd.  said.  Six Weeks  “We’re pretty pleased with the way things are going,”
Tony Barnard, marketing director of London 2012’s official
seller of on-site hospitality packages, said in a phone
interview today. “We’ve sold something like 25 percent of our
inventory, which is really good as we’ve only been on sale for
six weeks.”  Prestige has been allocated about 1 percent of the 8.8
million tickets available for the Summer Games. Its luxury
packages range from 225 pounds for early stages of the  soccer
tournament  at London’s  Wembley Stadium  to 4,500 pounds for the
opening and closing ceremonies, athletics, track cycling or
swimming.  Sold Out  Diving sessions, in which current 10-meter world champion
 Tom Daley  of Britain will be competing, and some rowing sessions
have already been sold out, Barnard said. Most demand has been
generated by financial institutions, insurance companies, law
firms, the media, manufacturing, IT and construction and
property companies, Barnard said. “Wealthy private
individuals” have been buying packages for the equestrian and
the gymnastics events, he added.  Prestige expects to sell out all of its luxury packages by
May next year.  “We never envisioned that we would sell all of our stock
in the first six weeks, because companies have got to make their
plans,” Barnard said.  The main ticket sale, a ballot run by the local organizers,
ended last night one hour later than planned after a late surge
of demand slowed the website-based application process.  Hospitality packages, which are also being sold by the
U.K.’s  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  and Far Hills, New Jersey-based Jet
Set Sports Holdings LP, are sold on a “first come, first
served” basis, and account for less than 5 percent of the total
ticket allocation.  Luxury Packages  The luxury packages are being sold to companies in London’s
financial district and the wealthy as the British government is
implementing the deepest spending cuts since World War II.  Britain’s economy rebounded in the first quarter by enough
to erase the contraction of the previous three months on the
strongest surge in service-industry growth for four years. Gross
domestic product rose 0.5 percent from the final quarter of
2010, when it fell by the same amount, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in London. The result matched the median
forecast of 28 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Services
expanded by 0.9 percent, the most since 2006.  “Thousands of customers have already guaranteed their
seats at the Games,” Stephen Vaughan, managing director of the
 Thomas Cook  London 2012 partnership, said in an e-mailed
statement today. The most popular sports are swimming,
athletics, equestrian and cycling, he said.  Thomas Cook declined to say how many packages it has sold.
Its prices range from 99 pounds, for a one-night stay at an
airport hotel with a ticket for one event, to 6,499 pounds for
three nights in a central London luxury hotel combined with
tickets for the opening ceremony, volleyball and table tennis.  Revenue from both corporate hospitality and ticket sales is
expected to be about 500 million pounds, according to London
2012 organizers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  