-- 
London Olympic Ticket Deadline Extended by Hour Last Night on Demand Surge

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-04-27T09:57:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/london-olympic-ticket-deadline-extended-by-hour-last-night-on-demand-surge.html
The deadline to apply for tickets
for next year’s  London Olympics  was extended by one hour
following a late increase in demand.  The six-week process was supposed to have ended yesterday
at 11:59 p.m. British time. The Games’ organizing committee
extended the deadline until 1 a.m. after “some people
experienced a temporary delay in accessing the Olympic ticketing
website following a surge of applications around 10:30 p.m.,”
it said on its  website  today.  “The system didn’t crash, because it was taking out money
all the time, but it did slow down for some people and that’s
why we extended it,” Annabel Gunnell, a spokeswoman for the
organizing committee, said in a phone interview.  Gunnell declined to say how many tickets had been sold by
the end of the booking period, saying officials want to “give
the complete picture.”  “We aren’t going to rush into giving figures,” she said.
“We’ve got a lot of work to do this morning: what needs to be
balloted, and what the next steps are for a number of different
sports.”  There are a total of 8.8 million tickets for the Games,
with 75 percent sold to the public through the  London 2012
website . Revenue from both corporate hospitality and ticket
sales is expected to be around 500 million pounds ($828
million), according to the organizers.  There will be a ballot for oversubscribed events. Prices
range from 20 pounds a seat for preliminary rounds to 2,012
pounds for the most expensive seats at the opening and closing
ceremonies. There were 650 sessions for sale, across 26 sports
and 17 days, with buyers restricted to a maximum of 20 tickets.
Successful applicants will be notified by June 24.  The  Olympic Games  run from July 27 to Aug. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  