-- 
Hong Kong Land Auction Shows Developers Confident as Demand Is Sustained

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-04-27T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/hong-kong-sells-site-at-top-end-of-estimates-in-first-auction-after-curbs.html
Hong Kong’s first land auction
since November raised close to the top estimate of analysts,
signaling developers remain confident the market will withstand
government efforts to cool prices.  Nan Fung Development Ltd. and  Wing Tai Properties Ltd. (369)  paid
HK$1.525 billion ($196 million) for the plot in the Hung Hom
district, close to the site of the city’s former airport.
Estimates ranged from HK$1.07 billion to HK$1.53 billion,
according to five surveyors and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Housing prices in the city, ranked the world’s most
expensive place to buy a home by  Savills Plc (SVS) , have gained more
than 65 percent in the past two years on record-low  mortgage
rates  and an influx of buyers from  China . The government in
November increased property transaction taxes and pledged to
boost land supply amid public protest that housing prices are
becoming unaffordable and as the central bank warned about the
risk of a “credit-fueled property bubble.”  “It reflects developers are confident about the underlying
health of the  property market ,” said Yu Kam-hung, senior
managing director of valuation and advisory services for Greater
China at CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. “It shows that despite
government efforts to increase land supply, buyers’ sentiment
will continue to be supported by the threat of inflation.”  The price paid is equivalent to gross buildable area of
HK$9,934 a square foot, according to Centaline Property Agency
Ltd. The estimated selling price for the units on the site is
HK$12,934 per square foot, according Centaline.  ‘Being Positive’  Closely held Nan Fung will develop the site in a 50-50
joint venture, Managing Director Donald Choi said after the
auction. The project will cost HK$500 million to HK$600 million
to build, he added, declining to give an estimate for the
selling price. The developers will build more than 100 three to
four-bedroom luxury apartments, Choi said.  “The bidders are being positive in the way that they are
bidding; they are not holding back,” Lands Department Deputy
Director Graham Martin Ross said after the auction. “It shows
strong interest for this type of property.”  Home prices in  Hong Kong  rose 0.6 percent in the week ended
April 17, halting a three-week, 1.6 percent-slide since mid-
March when some of the city’s biggest lenders including BOC Hong
Kong (Holdings) Ltd. raised mortgage terms based on the Hong
Kong Interbank Offered Rate, according to an index compiled by
Centaline. Prices have risen about 10 percent since November.  ‘Best Alternative’  Hong Kong’s consumer price index climbed 3.97 percent year-
on-year in the first three months of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Inflation and the signs of a property
bubble are among the biggest risks for the economy, the Hong
Kong Monetary Authority said in its annual report released last
week. Hong Kong’s currency peg to the dollar prevents the city’s
de-facto central bank from raising  interest rates .  “Nobody knows when U.S. is going to raise interest rates
and until then people will continue to be concerned about where
to put their money other than  bank deposits ,” said CB Richard
Ellis’s Yu. “Property is still the best alternative to many
people here.”  The government will sell a total of nine sites in the
second quarter, generating 2,650 apartments, and is considering
announcing its land sale schedule at the beginning of each
quarter, Financial Secretary John Tsang said earlier this month.  Hong Kong may auction as many as 52 plots of land this
year, Tsang said in his Feb. 23 budget speech. The land could
yield 16,000 units, almost 80 percent more than from land sold
last year.  Land Sales  Most government  land sales  in recent years have been done
through a so-called application system where developers’ offers
to buy the sites trigger the auction. That system was put in
place in 2002 to support falling  home prices  amid the Asian
financial crisis that started in 1997. Government-initiated land
auctions were partially resumed last year.  The site on Ko Shan Road sold yesterday has buildable area
of 14,262 square meters (153,514 square feet), according to the
 Development Bureau ’s website. It was the first land sold in Hung
Hom since August, when  Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd., controlled
by Hong Kong’s richest man  Li Ka-shing , paid a higher-than-
estimated HK$9,600 per square foot for a 366,000-square-foot
site.  Prices at nearby Whampoa Garden, an 88-tower, 10,500-unit
project built by Cheung Kong in 1991, currently stand at about
HK$7,500 a square foot, according to property consultant Knight
Frank LLP.  “This is reasonable and shows most developers believe the
market has already digested the latest measures to curb prices
and are confident prices will remain solid,”  James Cheung , a
director at the surveyor unit of Centaline, the island’s biggest
closely held realtor, said after the auction.  Nan Fung joined  Wharf Holdings Ltd. (4)  to bid HK$10.4 billion
for a site on Mt. Nicholson Road in the Peak area on  Hong Kong
Island  last July. The developer, founded by billionaire  Chen Din Hwa , bought a site in the Tung Chung area on  Lantau Island  near
the city’s international airport for HK$3.42 billion at a
government auction in May last year.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  