-- 
Online Poker Defendant’s Crimes Date to 1970s, U.S. Says at Bail Hearing

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-08T19:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/online-poker-prosecution-defendant-tells-judge-he-has-no-idea-on-lawyer.html
A man charged with helping process
payments for an illegal online gambling business was ordered
held without bail after a prosecutor said his criminal history
dated back more than three decades.  U.S. Magistrate Judge James Cott, in  New York , said today
he couldn’t be satisfied there were any bail conditions that
would ensure that Ira Rubin, 53, of  Costa Rica , would return to
court to face federal charges. Prosecutors say Rubin was trying
to flee to Thailand at the time of his arrest in April.  Rubin is accused of helping process payments for
PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker and Absolute Poker, the leading
online poker sites doing business with U.S. customers. Charged
with nine counts, including conspiracy to commit bank and wire
fraud, Rubin faces as long as 30 years in prison if convicted,
prosecutors said.  “There are unlimited reasons I cannot consent to the
defendant’s release,” Cott said. “I think I have no choice but
to detain the defendant.” Rubin had asked that he be granted
$300,000 bond and be allowed to live with his parents in
 Florida .  Prosecutors allege that after the U.S. enacted a law in
2006 barring banks from processing payments to offshore gambling
websites, PokerStars, Full Tilt and Absolute worked around the
ban to continue operating in the U.S.  Fake Golf Store  Assistant U.S. Attorney Arlo Devlin-Brown said Rubin
“helped offshore Internet poker companies move billions of
dollars in illegal gambling proceeds” disguised as phony
Internet merchants. The shell companies Rubin created included a
fake golf store and electronics business, Devlin-Brown said.  “He’s an extreme flight risk because he’s already done it
once before,” Devlin-Brown said.  Rubin’s criminal record dates back “to the 1970s” and
includes at least 24 different crimes, the prosecutor said.
Devlin-Brown said Rubin has outstanding warrants and criminal
cases in  Nevada ,  Massachusetts ,  Missouri , Florida, New York and
Virginia.  “These are very old matters. I think they’re pre-1995,”
said Stuart Meissner, Rubin’s lawyer.  “It’s old, but it’s long,” Cott said.  Rubin fled the U.S. in 2008 after a federal judge issued an
arrest warrant stemming from a case brought by the Federal Trade
Commission for operating a fraudulent telemarketing business,
Devlin-Brown said. Even after his wife became ill in the U.S.
and died, Rubin didn’t return, Devlin-Brown said.  Chartered Plane  On April 15, the day Rubin was named in a federal
indictment with 10 others in the poker case, he chartered a
plane from Costa Rica to  Guatemala  on his way to  Thailand ,
Devlin-Brown said.  “The evidence, despite what the government says, is highly
questionable,” Meissner told Cott, citing the prosecution’s
reliance on jailhouse informants.  Meissner said after the hearing that he would speak to his
client about making a bail application before U.S. District
Judge  Lewis Kaplan , who is presiding over the case.  “This entire case is a little bit of overkill,” Meissner
said. “I don’t think it’s a good use of taxpayer resources.
We’ll fight the charges.”  The case is U.S. v. Rubin, 10-CR-336, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 