-- 
Orders for U.S. Durable Goods Probably Rose on Exports, Inventory Rebuild

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-27T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-probably-rose-on-exports-inventory-rebuild.html
Orders for long-lasting goods
probably rose in March for a second time in three months,
reflecting demand for machinery and aircraft, economists said
before a report today.  Bookings for equipment meant to last at least three years
climbed 2.3 percent after a 0.6 percent decline the prior month,
according to the median projection of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Exports to emerging economies like China and the need to
increase stockpiles are drivers of the factory rebound
spearheading the recovery. Gains in business investment will
probably help sustain the economic expansion, one reason why
 Federal Reserve  policy makers today are likely to reiterate
plans to halt their bond purchases by the end of June.  “Demand is broadly recovering across the economy and
manufacturers are certainly seeing strong new order growth as a
result,” said  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise
Financial Inc. in  Detroit .  The Commerce Department’s report on orders is due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a decline
of 3.5 percent to a gain of 6.7 percent.  Boeing Co. (BA) , the largest U.S. maker of aircraft, said this
month it received orders for 98 planes in March, up from 21 the
prior month. Still, industry data may not correlate precisely
with the government statistics on a month-to-month basis.  Broad-Based Gain  Excluding demand for transportation equipment, which is
volatile month to month, orders for durable goods climbed 2
percent after a 0.3 percent decline in February, the Bloomberg
survey showed. Also eliminating demand from the military,
bookings for capital goods, like machinery used to produce other
products, increased 3.8 percent, according to the survey median.  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake and subsequent nuclear crisis
have affected some producers more than others.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s largest carmaker, posted a
32 percent gain in U.S. sales in March, while Japan’s Toyota
Motor Corp. reported a monthly decline. Japan’s Nissan Motor Co.
and Honda Motor Co. both had sales gains even as they braced for
the full effect of the earthquake, which is still disrupting
auto and parts production.  U.S. auto sales fell in March to a 13.06 million annual
pace from 13.38 million in February, which was the most in 18
months, according to industry data.  Japan Disaster  Microchip Technology Inc. (MCHP)  Chief Executive Officer Steve Sanghi last month was fielding a “barrage” of requests for
replacement parts after the earthquake disrupted global
semiconductor supplies.  Customers should order at least 12 weeks’ worth of their
needs for microcontrollers, used in devices from washing
machines to coffee makers to car parts, Sanghi wrote in a March
21 letter. “I am expecting a huge surge of redesign
inquiries,” Sanghi wrote.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest analog-chipmaker, on
April 18 forecast second-quarter revenue and profit that fell
short of some analysts’ estimates as lower Japanese demand and
falling mobile-phone chip sales hurt orders. Texas Instruments
said the earthquake and tsunami curbed demand in Japan and cut
output at the plants it operates, as well as those of its
customers and suppliers.  The business spending that helped lead the economy out of
recession in mid-2009 may be helped this year in part by
President Barack Obama’s December compromise with congressional
Republicans on taxes. Companies will be able to depreciate 100
percent of investments in capital equipment in 2011.  Growing Exports  Demand from fast-growing countries like  China  and  Brazil  is
spurring U.S. exports of machinery and consumer goods. Sales
overseas reached the highest level on record in January before
falling in February for the first time in six months.  Machinery and equipment makers have outperformed the
broader stock market. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Machinery Index has gained 12 percent so far this year, compared
with a 7.1 percent increase for the  S&P 500 Index .  “Manufacturing continued to lead” the improvement in
economic activity, according to the Fed’s Beige Book survey of
regional economies issued April 13. “All twelve Districts
reported that manufacturing activity increased since their
previous reports.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may keep reinvesting maturing
debt into Treasuries to maintain record stimulus even after
making good on a pledge to complete $600 billion in bond
purchases by the end of June, according to investors and
economists including  David Kelly  at JPMorgan Funds. Bernanke
will give a press conference today in  Washington  at 2:15 p.m.
after ending the policy meeting.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  