-- 
Morgan Stanley Issues Bonds as Swaps Trail: Corporate Finance

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-04-27T16:12:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/morgan-stanley-sells-bonds-as-swaps-lag-behind-rivals-corporate-finance.html
Morgan Stanley is tapping the  bond
market  for $4.5 billion as derivatives show traders perceive it
to be the riskiest of Wall Street’s six biggest banks.  The firm sold $2.5 billion of 3.8 percent, five-year notes
yesterday to yield 180 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
February,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  issued $3 billion of notes due in
2016 that paid a 120 basis-point spread, while  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  raised $2.5 billion of five-year debt that month at a
158 basis-point spread, Bloomberg data show.  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , who took charge last
year, is seeking to restore bondholder confidence by
rejuvenating a fixed-income division that contributed to $23.4
billion of losses and writedowns during the financial crisis,
eliminating dividend payments to Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. and increasing profitability of its retail brokerage unit.
While the cost to protect  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s debt from losses has
plunged in the past year, it remains higher than its peers.  “We’re still in a show-me situation as far as their risk
management is concerned,” said Marc Beulke, an analyst at
Minneapolis-based Thrivent Financial, which oversees $73.1
billion, including Morgan Stanley bonds. “It’s obvious it
needed some improvement if you go back to 2008 and the losses
they recorded compared with their competitors.”  Mark Lake, a Morgan Stanley spokesman, declined to comment.  Credit Swap Prices  While credit-default swaps tied to the debt of the New
York-based bank have declined to 142.4 basis points from 307.5
basis points in June, they are still higher than  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , JPMorgan,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Goldman
Sachs, according to data provider CMA.  The gap between contracts on Morgan Stanley and the average
of the six biggest U.S. banks has shrunk to 31.7 basis points
from as wide as 108.8 basis points in June. The difference was
as narrow as 19.4 basis points in October, according to CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Swaps on Morgan Stanley, the sixth-largest  U.S. bank  by
assets, were trading at the same level as Bank of America Corp.
as recently as March 2, when contracts on each cost 140 basis
points. Those on  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
have declined to 132.8 from 175.3 in June.  Contracts on Citigroup are priced at 122; those on San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo cost 78.5 and swaps on JPMorgan,
considered the most creditworthy of the banks, cost 74.3 basis
points.  Implied Credit Rating  Even with the improvement, the price traders are paying to
protect against losses in Morgan Stanley bonds implies a credit
rating of Baa3, the lowest investment grade, compared with the
company’s actual grade of A2, according to Moody’s Corp.’s
capital market research group.  “Morgan Stanley’s market signals improved only modestly
over the last 12 months,” Allerton Smith, senior director in
the group at Moody’s in  New York , wrote in a note today. The
derivatives show “investors remain cautious about the
reorientation and transition of the franchise.”  Credit swaps, which typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves, pay the buyer face value
if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of
the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Morgan Stanley’s bond sale, which included $2 billion of
two-year floating-rate debt, came after it reported first-
quarter net income last week of $968 million, or 50 cents a
share, and adjusted earnings of 46 cents, which topped analysts’
average estimate of 40 cents. The securities pay 98 basis points
more than the three-month London interbank offered rate,
Bloomberg data show.  More Attractive  The $2.5 billion of 3.8 percent notes issued yesterday
declined 0.1 cent to 99.8 cents on the dollar, as of 11:37 a.m.
in New York, according to Trace, the bond price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The bank issued $1.5 billion of five-year, 3.45 percent
notes that paid a spread of 225 basis points in October,
Bloomberg data show. That followed a $1.25 billion offering of 4
percent securities in July that paid a spread of 245 basis
points, or 2.45 percentage points.  Morgan Stanley bonds are more attractive than those from
firms including Bank of America and JPMorgan as yields on
investment-grade debt decline, said  Mirko Mikelic , a  money
manager  at Fifth Third Asset Management, which oversees $17.7.  Investment-grade U.S. corporate bond yields fell to 3.91
percent on average yesterday, while bank bond yields are at 3.78
percent, both the lowest since November, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. Financial company debt yields
have declined from 10.37 percent in March 2009.  ‘No. 1’ Priority  “After we survived through ‘08 and ‘09, everyone’s kind of
ridden the wave and is looking for spreads that are a little bit
wider,” Mikelic, who’s based in  Grand Rapids ,  Michigan , said in
a telephone interview. “You want stuff like that.”  Morgan Stanley said last week it agreed to convert $7.8
billion of preferred shares held by Mitsubishi UFJ to common
equity, paying a premium of about $2 billion to eliminate annual
dividend payments of $784 million.  “This was frankly No. 1 on my list for this year,” Gorman
said in an April 21 conference call with investors.  Morgan Stanley posted its first quarterly loss as a public
company in the fourth quarter of 2007 as it wrote down mortgage
holdings by $9.4 billion and took a $5 billion cash infusion
from sovereign wealth fund China Investment Corp.  ‘Work in Progress’  Morgan Stanley converted into a  bank holding company  in
September 2008, after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. The firm borrowed as much as $97.3 billion from the  Federal
Reserve ’s emergency lending programs that month. Over the next
month, it received a $9 billion injection from Mitsubishi UFJ
and agreed to take a $10 billion bailout from the  U.S. Treasury .  “It will take some time before we have everybody as true
believers,” Gorman said during a February investor conference,
in response to why Morgan Stanley’s debt spreads are wider than
competitors. “We’re getting further from the financial crisis,
and we’re demonstrating that we’re not making new mistakes,
which has been one of our mantras.”  Last quarter’s profit included a 26-cent loss tied to a
joint venture with Mitsubishi UFJ.  “We view them as much more of a work in progress, as
relatively new management figures out where they want to take
the business,” said  Joel Levington , managing director of
corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New
York. “If one believes in the turnaround, it offers an
opportunity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 