-- 
Los Angeles Unions Approve $400 Million Health-Care Givebacks to Save Jobs

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-04-27T17:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/los-angeles-unions-approve-400-million-health-care-givebacks-to-save-jobs.html
Los Angeles  city workers voted to
contribute 4 percent of their salaries toward retirement health
benefits for the first time to avoid furloughs and job cuts.  About 19,000 full- and part-time employees were eligible to
cast ballots yesterday, and 80 percent of the bargaining units
approved the plan, the  Coalition of Los Angeles City Unions 
trade association said in an e-mailed release today. The workers
currently pay nothing toward the benefits.  “We came together in the best interest of both workers and
Los Angeles residents,” Tim Butcher, a heavy-duty truck
operator with the city’s Bureau of Street Services, said in a
statement from the union. “The changes to our contracts will
end furloughs immediately, and that means we can get back to
work for the people of this city.”  Governments across the U.S. are asking public employees to
contribute more for health-care and retirement costs.  Wisconsin 
Governor  Scott Walker  sparked a nationwide debate when he signed
a law that eliminated collective bargaining for benefits and
increased contributions for health care and pensions. Ohio
passed a similar law, and  New Jersey ’s  Chris Christie  is also
seeking to cut worker benefits.  Los Angeles, the second-largest U.S. city by population,
faces a $457 million deficit in a general-fund budget of
$4.4 billion for fiscal 2012. The accord will save $396 million
over the next four years, according to Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa.  Message for Walker  “I have a message for Wisconsin’s Scott Walker,” the
mayor said at an April 20 budget press conference. “Collective
bargaining works.”  Employees faced the prospect of taking as many as 36 unpaid
days off, representing a 14 percent reduction in their salaries,
without the agreement, Villaraigosa said.  The mayor has proposed closing the city’s deficit for the
year that begins July 1 through a combination of spending
reductions, fund transfers and borrowing $43 million.  The health-care contributions, coupled with additional
pension payments, mean employees will be putting aside 11
percent of their salaries for retirement benefits starting July
1, up from 6 percent today, according to Miguel Santana, the
city administrative officer.  As part of the accord, the city will continue to pay for
increases in retiree health-care costs, Santana said in a
telephone interview before the vote. Previously, the city
maintained that the increases weren’t part of their contracts.  At least 18 states took action last year to reduce their
pension liabilities, either by cutting benefits or increasing
contributions, according to the  Pew Center on the States .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  