-- 
OTP Rises to 11-Month High, Lifting Hungary’s BUX Stock Index

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-04-27T09:46:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/otp-rises-to-11-month-high-lifting-hungary-s-bux-stock-index.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. advanced for a
second day to an 11-month high, lifting  Hungary ’s benchmark BUX
stock index, on signs the global economic recovery is
strengthening and the Cabinet is taking steps to boost lending.  The BUX rose 0.7 percent to 24,341.81 at 11:32 a.m. in
Budapest. Hungary’s largest lender, which makes up 32 percent of
the benchmark index, rose 1.4 percent to 6,451 forint, the
highest intraday level since May 18.  Emerging-market stocks advanced for the first time in three
days amid signs the global economic recovery is strengthening
and company earnings are growing. The MSCI Emerging Markets
Index rose 0.2 percent to 1,206.05 after earlier rallying as
much as 0.7 percent.  Talks between the government and commercial banks on an
agreement to end a moratorium on evictions and stimulate
mortgage lending helped OTP shares, said Gergely Gabler, an
equity analyst at Erste Group Bank AG in Budapest and Balint Hada, head of research at Quaestor Zrt. in Budapest.  “There may be a lending boom ahead of OTP,” Gabler said
by phone. “Banks will be able to breathe again.”  The Hungarian government will lower a special tax on banks
as part of an agreement with lenders to help distressed
borrowers after a moratorium on evictions runs out, news portal
Mfor reported yesterday, citing an official document it
obtained. The government and the country’s commercial lenders
have not yet agreed on a plan, the  Economy Ministry  said in a e-
mailed statement yesterday. Hungary will finalize the mortgage
relief plan in May, said Anna Nagy, a government spokeswoman, in
an interview with Magyar Hirlap published on April 23.  “The agreement between the banks and the government is
approaching,” Gabler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  