-- 
JR East, Sharp, Daihatsu Delay Profit Forecasts After Quake

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 
2011-04-27T09:52:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/toyota-s-daihatsu-sharp-delay-financial-forecasts-because-of-earthquake.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Daihatsu
minicar unit, Sharp Corp. and  East Japan Railway Co. (9020)  delayed
their financial forecasts for the year, citing difficulties
estimating the toll from last month’s natural disaster.  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) ,  TDK Corp. (6762)  and  Kobe Steel Ltd. (5406)  were
also among Japanese companies reporting results today that were
unable to provide investors with projections for profit or
sales. Sharp finds it “extremely difficult” to calculate
earnings forecasts at this time, the nation’s largest liquid-
crystal display maker said in a statement.  The delays help illustrate the challenges Japanese
companies face as they reel from factory disruptions, component
shortages and power outages stemming from the nation’s strongest
earthquake on record. Retail sales tumbled the most in 13 years
last month after the March 11 disaster led stores to shut and
discouraged households from spending money.  “We may have to wait until around July for companies to
make their earnings estimates,”  Yoji Takeda , who helps manage
$1.1 billion in  Hong Kong  at RBC Investment Management (Asia)
Ltd. “From an investor’s point of view, it’s troublesome but we
just have to deal with it. It’s an emergency situation.”  JR East , the nation’s biggest train operator, reported its
biggest quarterly loss in at least nine years as it booked an
extraordinary loss to cover restoration expenses.  Daihatsu, which also makes cars for Toyota, lost 40,000
units of output between March 14 and March 21 and 50,000 between
April 1 and April 28, the company said. Sharp’s full-year profit
reported today was 35 percent lower than its own forecast.  ‘Much Worse’  JR East shares have fallen 21 percent since the March 11
disaster and Sharp declined 8.1 percent.  Sharp’s earnings outlook for the current fiscal year “will
likely be much worse than the year before,” said  Shiro Mikoshiba , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “Domestic
shipments won’t be back soon after the earthquake and tsunami.”  The government estimates damages from the March 11 temblor
and tsunami may amount to 25 trillion yen ($306 billion).  The quake has also hurt consumer demand. Japanese retail
sales slumped 8.5 percent in March from a year earlier, the
biggest decline since March 1998, the trade ministry said in
 Tokyo  today. The median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 6.1 percent drop.  Confidence among both merchants and households fell the
most on record last month, a sign consumers may continue to cut
back in the months ahead.  Extra Budget  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  unveiled a 4-trillion yen extra
budget last week to rebuild the northeast area that was
devastated by the earthquake and tsunami. The spending aims to
provide more than 100,000 temporary homes and clean up debris
from the disaster.  Japanese companies may not be able to report earnings on
schedule, the Tokyo Stock Exchange said last month. Companies
that can’t gauge the full impact of the March disaster on their
operations might not have to include earnings forecasts in their
financial statements, the bourse said.  The magnitude-9 quake and ensuing tsunami crippled the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant operated by Tokyo Electric Power
Co., leading to the worst nuclear disaster since the Chernobyl
accident in 1986 and causing power shortages in eastern Japan.
About 26,000 people are dead or missing, according to the
 National Police Agency .  Earlier this month, the Keidanren, Japan’s largest business
lobby, urged member companies to reduce 25 percent of their
power usage from July to September to help Tepco avoid blackouts
during the period.  Power shortages and parts procurement are giving headaches,
Toshizo Tanaka, a  Canon Inc. (7751)  executive vice president, said
yesterday. The world’s largest maker of cameras cut its annual
profit and sales forecasts yesterday.  “The supply-chain issue is making things hard for
companies to make an estimate,” RBC’s Takeda said. “They
probably need more time to gather information to assess the
impact on their earnings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  