-- 
Palestinian Rival Factions Seek Unity Government, Plan Elections in a Year

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-28T13:21:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/palestinian-groups-fatah-hamas-agree-on-preliminary-unity-pact-mena-says.html
The rival Palestinian Hamas and
Fatah groups reached a preliminary agreement to end their almost
four-year divide, form a unity government and hold elections.  Egypt , which acted as mediator during the secret talks,
will host a meeting of Palestinian factions next week for a
formal signing ceremony, Fatah negotiator Azzam al-Ahmad said.  The understanding follows protests in March in which
thousands of Palestinians, inspired by the popular uprisings in
Egypt, Tunisia and  Libya , rallied in support of reconciliation
between Hamas, which controls the  Gaza Strip , and the Fatah-led
 Palestinian Authority , headed by  Mahmoud Abbas , which rules the
West Bank.  “Unity is good for everyone,” said Samir Abdullah,
director of the Ramallah-based Palestine Economic Policy
Research Institute. “It will bring back the democratic life
that is the most valuable asset for the Palestinian people in
their drive for statehood.”  Israel  said the deal would kill any chance for peace talks
and the U.S. said Hamas can’t play a “constructive role” as
long as it is unwilling to accept Israel’s right to exist. Hamas
-- considered a terrorist organization by the U.S., the European
Union and Israel -- rejects the peace negotiations and refuses
to recognize the Jewish state.  The announcement also comes as Palestinian Authority
officials lobby Western countries to recognize a Palestinian
state in September, a move they say they will take if stalled
peace talks with Israel are not resumed.  ‘Declaration of Statehood’  “If we think of the Palestinian Authority being serious
about the declaration of statehood in September, it would have
been absurd with two authorities,” said Jonathan Spyer, a
political scientist at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya,
outside  Tel Aviv . “We will see how far they get.”  The Palestinian split dates to 2007, when Hamas ousted
Abbas’s forces from the Gaza Strip, ending a coalition
government, a year after winning parliamentary elections.  Abbas said in Ramallah today after meeting Israeli peace
activists that he will set the policy of the new government and
name the Cabinet. When asked about the future of Prime Minister
Salam Fayyad, whose economic and administrative reforms have won
praise from Western leaders, he said: “It is too early to talk
about who will be prime minister.”  Gazans celebrated in the streets yesterday, Mkhaimar
Abusada, a political scientist at Gaza’s Al-Azhar University,
said in a phone interview. “This is a very significant for the
Palestinian people,” he said.  Syria and  Iran   Abdullah said the reconciliation may hold “because of the
experience of the parties that division brought no one any good,
as well as the fact that changes in the region removed some of
the environmental aspects supporting the division,” pointing to
unrest in Syria and Iran, two countries that have been
supporters of Hamas.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said a unity
agreement would put an end to negotiations and said the
Palestinian Authority “must choose between peace with Israel
and peace with Hamas.” President  Shimon Peres  said it would
prevent the establishment of a Palestinian state and “sabotage
any chance for peace.”  Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said the agreement
“crosses a red line” and suggested the government withhold  tax
revenue  it transfers to the Palestinian Authority and rescind
travel permits for its officials. A clause providing for the
release of Hamas prisoners from Palestinian jails “will flood
the  West Bank  with armed terrorists,” Liberman told  Army Radio 
today. “The army will have to act accordingly.”  Stalled Talks  Negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority
broke down several weeks after they started in September, when
Netanyahu refused to extend a partial 10-month construction
freeze in the West Bank and Abbas said he wouldn’t negotiate
until all construction was halted.  Hamas leaders have said that the U.S.-backed talks can’t
succeed because the Palestinian negotiators have made too many
concessions that don’t have public support.  While the U.S. supports Palestinian reconciliation “on
terms which promote the cause of peace,” that will only be the
case if Palestinian parties “renounce violence, abide by past
agreements and recognize Israel’s right to exist,” National
Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  