-- 
Obama Chooses ‘Safe’ U.S. National Security Team with Panetta, Petraeus

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-28T15:50:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/panetta-petraeus-viewed-as-safe-for-obama-military-strategy.html
President  Barack Obama  has stuck
with a “safe” team of leaders he knows by choosing Leon Panetta as his next defense secretary and Army General David Petraeus as director of the Central Intelligence Agency,
according to analysts and former national security officials.  Panetta, the current CIA director, and Petraeus, the top
U.S. commander in Afghanistan, already are part of Obama’s
national security structure. If confirmed by the Senate, they
will be in position to follow through on security priorities
they helped form as Obama heads into an election year.  “The big message here is no change in policy, and that
means a careful and centrist approach on national security
issues,” said John Ullyot, who worked on the Republican staff
of the Senate Armed Services Committee and is now a senior vice
president at Hill & Knowlton in Washington.  Troop reductions are planned to begin in  Afghanistan  in
July, with the withdrawal of an unspecified number this year.
The military is also winding down in  Iraq . The U.S. is taking a
measured role in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s
mission in Libya. At the same time, and with possible threats
remaining from  Iran  and  North Korea , Obama has ordered new cuts
in national security spending.  Panetta, 72, a California Democrat who served in the U.S.
House of Representatives from 1977 to 1993 and then as budget
director and White House chief of staff in the Clinton
administration, has been CIA director since February 2009.  ‘Continuity of Leadership’  He would succeed Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , the lone
holdover in Obama’s cabinet from the George W. Bush
administration, who has said he plans to leave this year. Gates’
resignation will be effective June 30 and Panetta is expected to
take over July 1, pending Senate confirmation.  During his tenure, Gates “seamlessly integrated the
Pentagon’s goals into America’s broader foreign policy agenda,”
said Senator  John Kerry , the Massachusetts Democrat who leads
the Foreign Relations Committee. Panetta and Petraeus “will
provide important continuity of leadership, policy and
philosophy,” Kerry said.  Panetta’s experience as chairman of the House Budget
Committee and as director of the Office of Management and Budget
would position him as defense secretary to implement the
president’s plan to cut $400 billion in national security
spending over the next decade, a former colleague said.  Strategic Cuts  “His job will be to make strategic cuts in the military
budget using a scalpel, not a sledgehammer. The military budget
is going to be a target,” said Jane Harman, the chief executive
officer of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
in  Washington . Harman, a California Democrat who retired from
Congress in February, dealt with Panetta in her role as a senior
member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.  “Panetta’s value added will be the budget expertise and
excellent rapport” with Congress, she said in a telephone
interview. “He has proved his loyalty to the administration,
and he is their best representative on  Capitol Hill .”  Gates made calls yesterday to notify congressional leaders
about the nominations, Pentagon spokesman  Geoff Morrell  said.  Asked about the national security implications of the U.S.
budget deficits during a Feb. 10 House Intelligence Committee
hearing, Panetta said “there’s no question that represents a
threat that we have to pay attention to.”  ‘Safe Choice’  Dov Zakheim, a former Pentagon comptroller and a senior
adviser to the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington, called Panetta a “safe choice.”  “Clearly the administration needs somebody who will be
part of the team,” he said in a telephone interview. The
administration faces “a very difficult series of decisions on
 Libya , tough decisions on Iraq and Afghanistan and tough
decisions on the budget.”  Panetta’s success shouldn’t be assumed, because running the
Pentagon is “radically different than any other task in
government,” said  Anthony Cordesman , the Arleigh A. Burke Chair
in Strategy at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies.  The job requires implementing “extremely complex
decisions” over a long period of time, Cordesman said. Panetta
will weigh choices on the future size and structure of the
military, weapons costs, long-term financing of the Afghanistan
mission, and the U.S. military exit from Iraq. Iran,  China  and
North Korea are among the issues where Panetta must strike a
hard balance between the military and civilian roles, he said.  Tactical Intelligence  Before taking his current position as top U.S. commander in
Afghanistan last summer, Petraeus, 58, was the head of  U.S.
Central Command  with responsibility for the Middle East and
Central Asia.  “He has been the ultimate consumer of tactical
intelligence, and he certainly knows what we do well and what we
need to do better,” Harman said.  Petraeus, who would move to the CIA in September if
confirmed, will enter “an incredibly difficult set of
challenges, which are not military,” said Cordesman, including
needed improvements in satellite communications, electronic
intelligence and cyber security, all of which are in “financial
and technical trouble.”  ‘Toughest Judge’  The CIA analysts are in for a “shock,” said  Bing West ,
assistant secretary of defense for international security
affairs during the  Reagan administration  and the author of
several books on war and counterinsurgency. “He’ll be the
toughest judge they ever had.”  Petraeus may hear concerns from Congress about a four-star
general taking a post traditionally held by civilians. Still,
the Senate has in the past confirmed both Panetta and Petraeus.  “The president has chosen experienced people with unique
capabilities to serve our nation at a dangerous time,” said
 Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican on the Armed
Services Committee.  “Clearly the president has decided to go with safe bets
for the nomination, and that will ensure quick nomination and
that will also send a message of a steady hand at the wheel,”
Ullyot said.  Petraeus and Panetta share a “pretty deep skepticism about
 Pakistan ’s commitment” to press the offensive against Taliban
bases in Afghanistan’s ungoverned northwest region, according to
 Bruce Riedel , a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution ’s
 Saban Center for Middle East Policy  in Washington.  Tension With Pakistan  “There’s a lot of tension in the relationship,” said
Riedel, a former CIA and National Security Council official who
helped develop the Obama White House’s first Afghanistan
strategy in early 2009.  Panetta has supported drone strikes in Pakistan. Improved
intelligence has enhanced the imagery gathered by unmanned
Predators flying 24-hour patrols over the region near the
Afghanistan border, making the missile-firing drones more
precise, a U.S. official said in January.  “This may be part of Obama’s double-down yet again on
Afghanistan,” said Steve Clemons, an analyst with the  New
America Foundation , a centrist policy research organization in
Washington.  Pakistan’s ambassador to the U.S.,  Husain Haqqani ,
applauded the potential appointments of Panetta and Petraeus,
even amid tensions between his country and the U.S. over CIA
drone strikes and a shooting involving a CIA contractor.  “We have worked very well with Mr. Panetta as director of
the CIA and with General Petraeus as both commander of Centcom
and the commander in Afghanistan,” Haqqani said. “We have
tremendous respect for both of them and their ability to see and
understand our perspective.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  