-- 
James Bond Film Studio Offer Increased by Peel Following Al Fayed Interest

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-04-27T10:15:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/peel-reaches-accord-to-acquire-pinewood-shepperton-for-200-pence-per-share.html
Peel Acquisitions Ltd. raised its
bid for film studio  Pinewood Shepperton Plc (PWS)  after former Harrods
owner Mohamed Al Fayed said he was weighing an offer for the
studio where Pirates of the Caribbean and James Bond films have
been shot.  The latest bid, at 200 pence a share, values Pinewood at
96.1 million pounds ($159.2 million), and the studio’s board
supports it, the companies said in a statement today. Pinewood
said on April 8 it received an approach about a takeover at 190
pence a share from Peel, which has a 29.8 percent stake.  Peel’s proposal “delivers certainty at an attractive
premium,” Pinewood Chairman Michael Ian Grade said in the
statement, adding the bid comes during a period of stability in
the  film industry , which “offers shareholders an opportune
moment to realize value.”  Pinewood,  Europe ’s largest provider of stage and studio
space, has been expanding by building facilities in Toronto,
Berlin and Malaysia and is seeking approval to build homes for
film and television workers in Iver Heath,  England , where it’s
based, and build sets that mimic Amsterdam, Venice and
Manhattan. Pinewood said last month it would also help fund as
many as four small budget films a year, with an investment of up
to 20 percent.  Pinewood shares fell 3 pence, or 1.4 percent, to 210 pence
as of 11:12 a.m. in London. They have gained 27 percent since
April 7, the day before Pinewood announced Peel’s initial
approach.  Egyptian-born Al Fayed, who also owns the Fulham Football
Club, sold Harrods to Qatar Holding LLC last year, saying he was
retiring to spend more time with his family. He said April 21 he
was considering an all-cash offer for Pinewood.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 