-- 
Pemex Costs Sink Below Petrobras as Sales Curbed: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-04-27T22:04:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/pemex-costs-sink-below-petrobras-as-sales-curbed-mexico-credit.html
Plans by  Petroleos Mexicanos  to
sell the least debt in three years are helping push the oil
producer’s 10-year borrowing costs below  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR4) ’s for the first time since January.  Yields on dollar bonds due in 2020 from Pemex, as the
Mexican state-owned company is known, dropped under rates for
similar-maturity notes of Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras in the
past month and were as much as 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, less on April 5. The Pemex securities have
returned 2.1 percent this year, compared with a 1.6 percent
advance in the Brazilian state-run oil company’s bonds.  Pemex plans to sell as much as $3 billion of notes in
overseas markets this year, the least since 2008, while
Petrobras borrowed a record $6.1 billion in January. Petrobras
“foresees the need to obtain new debt to finance investment,”
the Brazilian company’s press department said in an e-mailed
statement. Mexico City-based Pemex has less need to borrow after
opening production projects to private investment for the first
time since the government seized the oil industry in 1938.  “There has to be more of a scarcity value for Pemex,
because there are fewer bonds out there,” Jack Deino, who
oversees $1.75 billion of emerging-market debt, including Pemex
and Petrobras notes, at Invesco Advisers Inc., said in a
telephone interview in  New York .  Energy Bond Yields  Global energy company bonds are up 2.6 percent this year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Similar-maturity
bonds from BP Plc have returned 2.8 percent this year and from
Exxon Mobil Corp. have lost 0.1 percent.  The yield on Pemex dollar bonds due in 2020 fell one basis
point to 5.07 percent, or 11 points below Petrobras notes due
the same year. As recently as February, Pemex’s borrowing costs
exceeded Petrobras’s by 20 basis points.  Petrobras plans to spend $224 billion in the five-year
period through 2014, the company said in the e-mailed statement.
Pemex will invest about $27 billion a year during the next
decade, or 67 percent less annually than the Brazilian company,
according to company presentations this year.  Petrobras’s intense investment strategy requires more debt,
said  Eduardo Suarez , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Toronto.  Slow Convergence  Its yields are rising “in part because of the more
aggressive plans to issue bonds from the company and also
because there has been more government intervention,” Suarez
said in a telephone interview. “In a certain way, these
companies are converging slowly.”  Petrobras declined to comment on the performance of its
bonds in the e-mailed statement.  Pemex said in an e-mailed statement that it plans to sell
as much as $3 billion abroad this year and declined to comment
on the performance of its bonds.  Pemex’s bonds yield 69 basis points more than similar-
maturity Mexico government debt, down from 80 basis points on
March 16, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 3 basis points
to 134 basis points, according to JPMorgan.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose one basis point to 100, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  Rate Futures  Yields on the interbank rate futures contract, known as
TIIE, due in September fell one basis point to 5.0 percent
today, indicating that traders expect a rate increase that
month. In the past five years, the gap between the 28-day TIIE
and the overnight rate has averaged 36 basis points.  The peso added 0.5 percent to 11.5238 per  U.S. dollar  at 5
p.m. New York time, from 11.5779 yesterday.  Pemex’s output fell at the steepest rate since World War II
in 2008 because of declines at its Cantarell field, the third-
largest in the world when it was discovered in 1976. In the past
seven years, crude production from the company’s largest oil
deposit has fallen 74 percent to 558,041 barrels a day in 2010
from 2.14 million in February 2001.  Lula, Libra Reserves  Petrobras is developing the offshore Lula field, formerly
known as Tupi, and may take a minimum stake of 30 percent in the
government’s Libra field, the Americas’ biggest oil discoveries
since Cantarell. Lula and Libra, which may hold as much as 6.5
billion barrels and 15 billion barrels, respectively, are in a
deep-water region known as the pre-salt along  Brazil ’s coast.  Investors may begin demanding a yield premium to hold Pemex
bonds instead of Petrobras debt because the Mexican oil producer
has bigger challenges, said Denis Girault, who helps manage $1
billion of emerging-market debt at Union Bancaire Privee in
Zurich.  With Petrobras, “you’re digging, digging, digging, but you
know what you’re going to find on the other side of the
tunnel,” Girault said. “Although maybe it’s a challenge to go
very deep, at some point, it will be done, and at some point the
reserves will be there. The other one is more of a challenge of
finding new reserves in a limited geographic location.”  Invesco’s Deino said he expects Pemex’s debt level to
remain stable while that of Petrobras rises. Petrobras has total
debt of $46 billion and Pemex has $53.4 billion. Pemex doesn’t
have the “ambitious capital expenditure needs” of Petrobras
and isn’t going to leverage to the same degree, he said.  “From a supply perspective, a technical perspective, I
don’t rule out seeing another $6 billion in supply from
Petrobras in the second half of the year,” Deino said. “It may
be as much as $10 billion or $12 billion a year for the next few
years from now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  