-- 
Philippine Deficit Narrowed as Revenue Rose, Spending Fell

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-04-27T06:21:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/philippine-deficit-narrowed-as-revenue-rose-spending-fell-1-.html
The  Philippines ’ budget deficit
shrank in March as  tax revenue  rose and spending declined,
taking the first-quarter shortfall to less than a quarter of the
government’s ceiling.  The gap was 18.13 billion pesos ($420 million) last month
from 63.87 billion pesos a year earlier, the government said in
an e-mailed statement today. The first-quarter deficit was 26.2
billion pesos, less than both the administration’s limit of 112
billion pesos and the shortfall of 134.18 billion pesos in the
three months through March 2010. Revenue climbed 10.6 percent in
March while spending fell 22.1 percent.  President  Benigno Aquino  is going after tax evaders,
smugglers and corrupt officials to increase revenue and narrow
the  budget deficit  from a record 314.4 billion pesos in 2010,
even as he plans to boost public spending on roads, schools and
airports. Philippines beat its target for tax collection in the
first quarter and more people have filed returns this year, the
 Bureau of Internal Revenue  said April 16.  “It’s good that tax collections are improving but at this
point, I would rather see the government take the preventive
action of spending to preserve gains in the economy,”  Jonathan Ravelas , a strategist at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. in Manila,
said before the report. “The government has so much leeway to
do targeted spending, kickstart the economy and provide a boost
to consumption that may be slowing due to inflation and as the
value of remittances are threatened by peso gains.”  The peso has climbed about 3 percent in the past year.
Consumer prices increased 4.3 percent from a year earlier in
February and March, the fastest pace since May 2010.  Moody’s Investors Service in January raised its outlook on
the nation’s debt rating to positive from stable and maintained
the rating at Ba3, three levels below investment grade. The $161
billion economy grew 7.3 percent last year, the fastest pace in
34 years.  The government expects revenue to improve because of
“better economic prospects” and the fight against corruption,
Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  