-- 
Phillies Pitcher Oswalt Leaves Team After Tornadoes Strike Near His Home

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-27T19:39:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/philadelphia-phillies-pitcher-oswalt-leaves-mlb-team-for-personal-reasons.html
Philadelphia Phillies pitcher  Roy Oswalt  has temporarily left the team, concerned about his family
after deadly tornadoes struck near his home in  Mississippi .  Oswalt may rejoin the Phillies in time for his next
scheduled start, which is May 3 against the  Washington
Nationals , the Major League Baseball team said in a statement.  The Phillies said tornado activity has caused several
deaths and significant damage in the area near Oswalt’s home.
The Associated Press reported that storms had killed at least 10
people from  Arkansas  to  Alabama , including a man struck by a
tree at a Mississippi campsite.  “He has chosen to take time to make sure there wasn’t
significant damage to his home, but more importantly, to make
certain that his wife and children are OK,” Phillies General
Manager Ruben Amaro said. “It is almost a year to the day that
his parents’ house was destroyed by a tornado, which has
heightened his concern about the current situation.”  Oswalt, 33, is one of four All-Star pitchers in the
Phillies’ starting rotation, along with Roy Halladay, Cliff Lee
and Cole Hamels. The group has helped Philadelphia win 15 games
this season, tied for the second-most in the majors behind the
 Colorado Rockies .  Oswalt lasted three innings in yesterday’s 7-5 loss to the
Arizona Diamondbacks, allowing five runs on six hits. It was his
first defeat in five starts this season and his first regular-
season loss since his Phillies debut on July 30, 2010.  Oswalt is 3-1 with a 3.33 earned run average this season.
He allowed five earned runs in his first four starts before
yesterday’s loss in Phoenix.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  