-- 
Phoenix’s Underwater Mortgages Show Weakness in Housing Threatens Recovery

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-04-27T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/phoenix-underwater-mortgages-show-housing-s-threat-to-recovery.html
Christine Johnson has reduced her
spending on clothes, travel and home improvements -- all so she
can stay current on the house she bought in Phoenix at the peak
of the housing bubble.  Johnson, 44, a professional photographer, owes $330,000 on
a ranch home that she says might fetch $270,000 in today’s
market. She’s also about $70,000 underwater on a rental property.
“I’m nervous now. How am I going to make enough money to pay
everything on time?” the single mother said in an interview.
“I used to be able to spend money on clothes. I don’t buy
anything anymore.”  One year ago, there were signs that housing was healing;
new home sales were up and prices rising. Now, new home sales
are below levels hit at the depth of the recession two years ago,
and 23 percent of all borrowers -- more than 11 million
homeowners -- owe lenders more than their homes are worth. The
renewed weakness is keeping a lid on consumer confidence,
consumption and growth.  “It keeps the recovery from being all that strong,” says
 Mark Vitner , senior economist for Wells Fargo Securities in
Charlotte, North Carolina. “We don’t see how the economy can
get above 3 percent growth, except for a short period of time,
with housing being so deeply underwater,” he said.  In the 18 months after the recession ended in June of 2009,
the economy grew at an average annual rate of 3 percent a
quarter. A survey of economists by Bloomberg News produced a
median forecast that growth slowed to a 2 percent rate in the
first quarter of this year, not enough to ease the nation’s
unemployment crisis.  Further Declines Seen  Further home-price declines this year -- expected by
analysts such as  Robert Shiller  of  Yale University  -- would push
several million more Americans into negative equity. Home prices
dropped 5.7 percent in February from year-earlier levels,
according to the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the fourth
consecutive month of backsliding.  In Phoenix, the problem is especially acute. Nearly 202,000
individuals are 50 percent or more in negative equity, according
to a Corelogic Inc. analysis prepared at the request of
Bloomberg News. More than one in every five Phoenix-area
mortgage holders would need their homes to double in value just
to break even.  “The mortgage drag and negative equity? I think it’s a
serious problem. It’s the elephant in everybody’s room and
nobody quite knows what to do about it,” says Jim Lundy, chief
executive of Alliance Bank of  Arizona , an eight-year old
business lender in Phoenix.  Rebound Hampered  Housing is hampering the state’s economic rebound.
Arizona’s 9.5 percent unemployment rate in March was above the
nation’s 8.8 percent figure. Over the past year, the state, with
303,000 unemployed, has added just 1,700 jobs, according to
seasonally-adjusted figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Nationally, the housing industry led recoveries from
previous recessions, typically contributing 1 percentage point
to GDP growth at this stage of a recovery, says  Paul Dales , an
economist with  Capital Economics  Ltd. in Toronto. This time, the
sector’s dead weight impedes the economy’s advance.  On April 7, San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the
largest U.S. home lender, eliminated 1,900 positions in its
mortgage unit.  KB Home (KBH) , a Los Angeles-based homebuilder that
specializes in first-time buyers, this month reported first-
quarter revenue of $196.9 million. In the same period in 2007,
the company had $1.4 billion in revenue. KB Home shares have
fallen 18 percent this year after declining nearly 2 percent
last year.  ‘Stubborn Parts’  Brian Moynihan, chief executive officer of Charlotte, North
Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , last month said
“delinquent mortgages and falling home values is one of the
most stubborn parts of this crisis. It’s going to take the
longest to get through.”  Homeowners who are underwater may be slower to relocate for
employment, leaving job-poor markets clogged with surplus
workers. Would-be entrepreneurs are unable to tap their non-
existent home equity for start-up cash, meaning some good ideas
for new businesses never get off the ground.  Most of all, millions of homeowners who have seen their
principal asset melt in value are in no mood to spend. During
the easy money days last decade, rising home prices helped power
the American economy. From 2000 to 2005, homeowners funded about
3 percent of annual consumption spending by borrowing against
the equity in their homes, according to a 2007 paper by Alan Greenspan, then-chairman of the Federal Reserve Board.  In the past six years, Americans have lost more than $6.9
trillion in housing wealth, according to the Fed. “Consumers
are very cautious,” says Lee McPheters, an economist with the
W.P. Carey School of Business at Arizona State University.
“There’s just not a lot of big spending.”  Retail Sales  Lingering effects from the housing implosion can be
glimpsed in retail sales and  consumer confidence  readings,
economists say. Nationwide, almost two years after the
recession’s end, inflation-adjusted retail sales may have
declined in March, their worst performance in nine months,
according to Capital Economics. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index stands at minus 42.6, down from minus 20 at the start of
the recession in December, 2007.  For some homeowners, prolonged financial trauma has
transformed their attitudes toward spending. Tom LeTendre, 47, a
food services warehouse operations manager, and his wife Diane,
50, lived well in the years after their 1998 purchase of a
$98,000 home on the west side of Phoenix. “We were very
comfortable. We went to dinner when we felt like it. We bought
the things we needed to enjoy life,” he said in an interview.  Repeated Borrowing  Over the next few years, as  home prices  rose, the LeTendres
repeatedly borrowed against their home. They refinanced into an
adjustable-rate mortgage for the final time in 2006, a year that
saw Phoenix prices jump more than 40 percent. Today, with an
annual household income of about $80,000, they owe about
$260,000 and have stopped paying their mortgage. Homes in their
neighborhood have sold recently for $45,000 to $65,000,
according to Zillow.com.  During the housing boom, homeowners like the LeTendres
routinely tapped their homes for extra spending money. So-called
“cash-out” refinancings peaked at $318 billion in 2006. Last
year, consumers extracted just $32 billion, the smallest
inflation-adjusted annual total since 1997, according to  Freddie
Mac . “That channel of wealth, which was driving consumption
spending in the first half of the decade, is closed,” said
 Michelle Meyer , an economist with Bank of America Merrill Lynch
in  New York .  Dental Bill  As recently as 2007, the LeTendres used their housing
equity to pay a $25,000 dental bill, fund a Caribbean cruise and
cover thousands of dollars in home improvements. Tom LeTendre,
now hoping his bank will permit him to dump the house for
whatever the market will bear and walk away, was a regular
customer at the local Home Depot, spending freely as he took
down an interior wall, extended a carport roof and did some
cabinet work. He rarely patronizes the store these days; on his
last visit, he spent $8.  “My outlook on a lot of things has changed,” he said. “I
don’t need an iPad. I don’t want to give anybody my money for
something unless I think it’s worth it. I’m very reluctant to
buy into the commercialism.”  Atlanta-based  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ’s $3.3 billion net income for
the year that ended in January was 43 percent below its peak
profit five years earlier.  Smaller Projects  Such cautious consumption also has touched local businesses.
Brandon Holtzman, of family-owned Holtzman Home Improvement,
says homeowners have pulled back from the full-scale projects
that cost $100,000 or more. Today, the typical job involves
perhaps installing a new bathroom for $10,000, he said in a
telephone interview. “They don’t want to pay as much. The jobs
are smaller,” he says.  Some victims of the housing catastrophe should have known
better. Les Meyers, 74, spent a half century in real estate in
Indiana and Illinois before moving to Arizona. Five years ago,
he and his wife bought a $330,000 home with two bedrooms and a
den and then spent an additional $70,000 improving it. In
December, his lender agreed to a short sale of the home for
$229,000.  In 2005, Meyers says he made about $300,000. This year,
having returned to his roots as a real estate salesman, he’ll be
lucky to make $35,000. He filed earlier this month for personal
bankruptcy. “We’re starting over. We don’t have a nickel of any
asset other than a car my wife owns,” he says.  Blaming  Wall Street   The experience has left him bitter and broke. Meyers blames
“thieves” on Wall Street who have corrupted the political
system and left homeowners stripped of their principal asset.  “If you think about it, it gets difficult,” he says. “So
you can’t. You just have to think: ‘I’m ok.”  Overall, housing’s drag on consumption could be significant.
A 10 percent drop in  house prices  shaves $105 billion from
consumption and 1 percentage point from GDP growth, according to
a 2008 paper by Raphael Bostic and Stuart Gabriel of the
University of  Southern California  and Gary Painter of the
 University of California . Since peaking in 2006, home prices
have fallen nearly 33 percent, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller
20-city index. The index yesterday recorded another drop to just
above its recession low.  Maricopa, the name of a community ravaged by the housing
downturn, isn’t Spanish for “negative equity,” but it might as
well be. On a recent Wednesday evening, Chad Chadderton, a local
realtor, welcomed about two dozen people to a seminar for
underwater homeowners with the news that most homeowners in the
desert town a 40-minute drive from downtown Phoenix are upside
down on their mortgages.  Retired Warden  Bill Smith is among them. A retired Maryland prison warden,
Smith, 65, bought a home in a development called Rancho El
Dorado for $238,000 in 2006. Last month, a house almost directly
across the street sold for $59,900, according to Zillow.com.  Seated at a table in the back room of a local Native New
Yorker restaurant, Smith said he was still making payments on
his mortgage despite the loss of value. “Maybe in three to five
years” the home would again be worth what he’d paid, he said.  A Marine Corps veteran who lost three fingers in  Vietnam ,
Smith a few moments later acknowledged reality. “It’s like
you’re putting money in a hole,” he said. “It’s eating at
me.”  A few miles south in the neighborhood of Maricopa Meadows,
a young couple mulled costs that go beyond the financial.
Sitting at their kitchen table, John and Mary Arrison are a
study in dejection and regret. Their four-bedroom 1,600 square
foot home cost $193,000 in 2006. They still owe about $170,000,
plus a $60,000 home equity line they took out as home prices
peaked.  Last Payment  John, 44, a factory service representative for a maker of
outdoor security systems in Tempe, says the mortgage became
unmanageable after his wife, 43, quit her job at Minneapolis-
based Target Corp. to return to school. In March, a potential
buyer offered the couple $56,000 for their dream home. The
Arrisons, who made their last mortgage payment seven months ago,
are waiting for their bank to approve the sale.  Dirk Street, where the Arrisons planned to grow their
family and build a life, now is lined with “For Sale” and
“For Rent” signs. The neighbors, next door and across the
street, are renters and strangers.  It was a nice street when the Arrisons and their two little
boys moved in. Not today, they say. The police have become
frequent visitors, drawn by a spate of domestic disputes.
Another renter nearby scared them with a pair of pet pit bulls.  “It came to the point I didn’t feel safe walking to the
park at the end of the street with my kids,” says Mary. “It’s
not even a place I want to live anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  