-- 
Polish Retail Sales Beat Estimates, Increasing Pressure for Rate Increases

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-04-27T10:19:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/polish-retail-sales-beat-estimates-increasing-pressure-for-rate-increases.html
Polish retail sales increased
faster than economists expected in March, fueling speculation
the central bank will raise  interest rates  again to control
inflation.  Retail sales grew an annual 9.4 percent in March, the
 Central Statistical Office  in Warsaw reported today, compared
with the median estimate of 7.8 percent from 19 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 18.8 percent on the month.  The figures come as the central bank’s Monetary Policy
Council considers when to increase borrowing costs again, after
raising the benchmark rate to 4 percent this month to curb
inflation and strengthen the zloty. Inflation accelerated to 4.3
percent in March, the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years.  “Today’s figures will definitely send a signal to the
council, as higher sales could be carried over to prices,
bringing the risk of inflation,” said Piotr Bielski, an
economist at Bank Zachodni WBK in Warsaw. He said he doesn’t
expect the central bank to raise rates in May.  The Monetary Policy Council holds its next rate-setting
meeting May 10-11.  Retail sales slowed from an annual 12.2 percent in February
mainly because the Easter holidays were earlier last year,
Bielski said.  “We’ll see the effect of Easter shopping a month later
this year,” he said by phone after the release. “But today’s
data show that consumer demand is still high in  Poland  and is
growing at a very decent pace.”  Consumer confidence  improved to minus 26.8 in April from
minus 29 in March, the statistical office said in a separate
statement. The index forecasting confidence for the year-ahead
period improved to minus 29.8 from minus 34.1.  Unemployment fell to 13.1 percent in March from 13.2
percent the month before, the statistics office reported today,
matching the forecast of 21 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  