-- 
PPR First-Quarter Sales Beat Estimates on Demand for Luxury

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-04-27T18:41:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/ppr-first-quarter-sales-beat-estimates-led-by-demand-for-luxury.html
PPR (PP)  SA, owner of the Gucci fashion
brand and Redcats clothing and home-furnishing retailer,
reported first-quarter sales that beat analysts’ estimates and
said it’s confident of surpassing its 2010 performance.  Revenue from continuing operations rose 9.1 percent to 3.71
billion euros ($5.4 billion) from 3.4 billion euros a year
earlier, the Paris-based company said today in a statement. The
average estimate of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg was for
sales of 3.61 billion euros.  Luxury-goods  sales climbed 26
percent, boosted by wholesale demand in the U.S., PPR said.  PPR plans to sell Redcats and the Fnac electronics and
media chain to focus on luxury goods and sports and lifestyle
brands. Rivals  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,  Bulgari SpA (BUL) 
and  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  this month posted sales growth of at
least 17 percent in the last quarter.  “PPR enjoyed revenue growth in all geographic areas with
the exception of Japan, where the March 11 earthquake brought an
end to the upward trend observed since the beginning of the
year,” the company said in the statement. First-quarter sales
declined 3 percent in Japan, which accounted for 11 percent of
revenue, PPR said in a separate  presentation .  PPR advanced 30 cents, or 0.3 percent, to close at 118.45
euros in Paris trading before today’s statement. The stock has
fallen 0.5 percent this year, valuing the company at 15 billion
euros.  ‘Erratic’ Demand  Though demand in  Japan  has been “erratic” since the
earthquake, the first three weeks of April “show a trend which
is better or similar to the first quarter for all our luxury
brands,” Chief Financial Officer Jean-Francois Palus said on a
conference call. PPR’s first-quarter luxury sales in Japan
declined 7 percent on a comparable basis, Palus said.  Overall sales increased 24 percent at Gucci, PPR’s largest
luxury brand, and 38 percent at  Bottega Veneta , the company
said. Sales of Yves Saint Laurent apparel and accessories jumped
29 percent, while revenue from other luxury brands gained 24
percent.  Wholesale orders for fall-winter collections are up by
“double digits” at all of PPR’s luxury brands except Sergio
Rossi, Palus said. In Yves Saint Laurent stores, the first three
weeks of April “show an even better performance than the first
quarter” which will improve margins, he said. After raising
Gucci prices at the beginning of the season, PPR has more room
to increase prices across its luxury division, the CFO said.  Redcats  First-quarter sales rose 1.1 percent at Redcats and fell
2.4 percent at Fnac, PPR said. Fnac, which opened two stores in
the first quarter, will add five more this year, PPR said. New
initiatives such as the introduction of new product categories
will help the retailer “reinvigorate its sales performance over
the coming months,” PPR said.  Puma AG, which PPR controls, said yesterday that first-
quarter sales increased 13 percent to 773.4 million euros. PPR
owned about 73 percent of  Europe ’s second-largest sporting-goods
maker at the end of March, Palus said.  PPR’s total first-quarter revenue figure from last year
excludes furniture retailer Conforama, which Steinhoff
International Holdings Ltd. bought in March for 1.21 billion
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  