-- 
Ex-Primary Global Consultant Chu May Enter Agreement in Fund Insider Case

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-27T15:50:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/primary-global-expert-networker-chu-to-waive-indictment-face-new-charges.html
     April 27 (Bloomberg) --Don Ching Trang Chu, an expert
consultant to hedge funds who worked for Primary Global Research
LLC, will appear in federal court in New York to plead not 
guilty to insider trading charges and waive his right to be 
indicted by a U.S. grand jury, his lawyer said.  Federal defendants traditionally waive their right to be 
indicted by a grand jury as a prelude to entering into an 
agreement with prosecutors and pleading guilty.   Chu, who worked as the Taiwan liaison for the expert-
networking firm based in  Mountain View ,  California , was arrested
in November, charged with passing tips to Richard Choo-Beng Lee,
a former partner at  San Jose , California-based Spherix Capital
LLC beginning in late 2008, according to a criminal complaint
filed by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan .  Chu's lawyer,  James DeVita , said his client, who is free 
on $1 million bond, will appear today before U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, in Manhattan.   “I don’t have a resolution to this case yet,” DeVita said
in a telephone interview, when asked if his client would plead
guilty. “I can tell you that he’s not requiring the government
to go to a grand jury and obtain an indictment against him but
we have yet to resolve this case and it won’t be today.”  ‘Interests of Justice’  Chu is connected to a series of criminal cases brought by
Bharara’s office tied to a nationwide probe of insider trading
at hedge funds and the expert networkers who provide them with
inside information. Chu, was charged with arranging for insiders
at publicly traded companies to improperly provide information
to clients of his firm.  His case has been adjourned several times since his Nov. 24
arrest “in the interests of justice,” court records show.  Chu, a onetime employee at AT&T’s Bell Laboratories, worked
for Taiwanese firms including  CyberTan Technology Inc. (3062)  and  Z-Com
Inc. (8176)  before joining Primary Global. The expert networking firm
connects investors with industry experts who provide insight
into a specific market.  One client was Spherix Capital LLC, a hedge fund where Lee
used secret tips to trade stocks, according to Lee’s guilty plea
last year.  Lee has pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the
government’s investigation of hedge funds, including Galleon
Group LLC, prosecutors said. Before Spherix, Lee was employed as
an analyst by SAC Capital Advisors LP, the hedge fund firm run
by  Steven A. Cohen , from 1999 to 2004.  Inside Information  Lee’s hedge fund allegedly paid Chu’s firm for the inside
information, prosecutors said. Employees of  Atheros
Communications Inc. (ATHR) ,  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  and  Sierra Wireless Inc. (SW) 
passed earnings estimates and other data to Primary Global’s
clients, according to the criminal complaint.  Primary Global said in a statement issued at the time of
Chu’s arrest that he was born in Taiwan and became a naturalized
U.S. citizen in 1987. The firm said Chu worked for the firm for
about seven years.  Chu was originally charged in a criminal complaint that
accused him of one count of conspiracy to commit  securities
fraud  and one count of conspiracy to commit  wire fraud . He faces
as much as 25 years in prison if convicted of wire fraud
conspiracy.  He was the first in a new wave of federal arrests tied to
the Galleon Group case, the largest  insider trading  probe
involving hedge funds. Two overlapping insider trading cases
involving Galleon Group founder Raj Rajaratnam have led to
accusations against more than 20 people.  Government Evidence  To date, 21 people have pleaded guilty in the case, with
most agreeing to cooperate with prosecutors and testify against
others. A federal jury in New York has been deliberating the
Rajaratnam case since April 25.  Malaysian-born Lee, who was a colleague of Rajaratnam for
20 years at Needham & Co. and one of the original defendants in
the Galleon case, pleaded guilty last year to receiving inside
information “from one of my sources in  Asia .”  The scheme Chu was allegedly involved in ran from January
to August 2009, prosecutors said. Evidence against him described
in the complaint was gathered from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, bank records, unnamed cooperating witnesses
and “court-authorized wiretaps on a telephone subscribed to an
unnamed hedge fund.” The U.S. said the FBI intercepted calls
made between Oct. 15, 2008, and Feb. 4, 2009.  Offices Searched  As part of the U.S. investigation into insider trading at
hedge funds, agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s
 New York  office on Nov. 22 searched the offices of Level Global
Investors LP and Diamondback Capital Management LLC. Both firms
were founded by former employees of  Stamford , Connecticut-based
SAC Capital Advisors LP. A third hedge fund, Boston-based Loch
Capital Management, was also searched by agents that day,
according to a person familiar with that matter.  Cohen’s SAC was subpoenaed by the U.S. seeking documents a
day later. No allegation of wrongdoing has been made against
SAC, which manages $12 billion.  The case is U.S. v. Chu, 10-Mag-2625, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  