-- 
Rajaratnam Prosecutors Get Plea Deals as Jury Weighs His Case

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-28T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/rajaratnam-prosecutors-notch-four-plea-deals-while-awaiting-jury-s-verdict.html
Prosecutors waiting for a jury
verdict in the trial of Galleon Group LLC’s Raj Rajaratnam may
take comfort that four defendants tied to the  insider-trading 
probe that began with him are pursuing plea deals.  Don Ching Trang Chu, a former hedge-fund consultant for
Primary Global Research LLC, will probably plead guilty, a judge
said at a hearing in his case yesterday, after the government
noted “extensive” talks with his lawyer. Prosecutors in the
same Manhattan courthouse said that Donald Longueuil, a former
hedge fund manager at SAC Capital Advisors LP, will plead guilty
today to related insider-trading charges.  On April 26, Craig Drimal, a trader who worked at Galleon,
pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud. He faces a
maximum sentence of more than seven years in prison, far more
than the average sentence of about 18 months handed down in
similar cases since 2003, according to an analysis of court data
by Bloomberg News.  The three men are among about three dozen people charged in
what prosecutors said was a series of insider-trading rings.
Jason Goldfarb, a  Brooklyn , New York, lawyer, pleaded guilty
April 21 to passing inside tips as part of Drimal’s ring. He
faces a maximum of almost four years in prison when he’s
sentenced.  Largest Crackdown  Rajaratnam, 53, was arrested in October 2009 in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about stocks including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Clearwire Corp.
Rajaratnam, who said he based the trades on research, faces as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted of the most serious
counts.  As the jury weighed the evidence, Rajaratnam sat on a bench
outside the courtroom chatting with his lawyers. The panel of
nine women and three men began deliberating at about noon on
April 25. Yesterday afternoon, they asked to hear wiretap
recordings presented during the trial.  Prosecutors yesterday failed to persuade U.S. District
Judge Richard Holwell to let jurors view transcripts of the
recordings in the jury room.  “It seems a little bit unbalanced and a little bit unfair,
your honor, that some of the government’s best evidence doesn’t
go back in the jury room,” Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky 
told Holwell.  40 Recordings  Prosecutors played more than 40 recordings of wiretapped
phone conversations in the trial, which began March 8, material
that Brodsky called “devastating evidence of the defendant
committing crimes in real time” in his closing argument last
week.  Rajaratnam’s lawyer  John Dowd  said he “vehemently”
objected to providing the transcripts. Holwell, who had
previously ruled against the same request, said yesterday that
he didn’t see a reason to provide the transcripts now. He also
declined Brodsky’s request to give jurors access to the audio
recordings themselves.  Brodsky’s request came after jurors spent about 20 minutes
in the courtroom yesterday listening to six recorded
conversations between Rajaratnam and Rajiv Goel, a former friend
and executive at Intel who pleaded guilty and testified as a
prosecution witness.  The recordings jurors asked for yesterday contained
discussions between Rajaratnam and Goel about Intel’s investment
in a new wireless network venture to be formed by Sprint Nextel
Corp. and Clearwire. During the trial, Goel testified that he
leaked inside information about the transaction to Rajaratnam.
The jury asked to hear nine recordings on April 26.  Jurors haven’t reached a verdict. Deliberations are set to
resume today.  The Betting Line  There’s one thing both the prosecutors and defense agree
upon: Raj Rajaratnam is a gambling man. Legitimate or not, his
fortune was earned speculating on future events.  So it may come as no surprise to the hedge-fund manager
that there’s a market in the outcome of his trial. On  Intrade , a
Dublin-based online prediction market, bettors say there’s a 90
percent chance he will be convicted of at least one count of
insider trading.  Rajaratnam’s Media Man  Keeping watch over the 20 or so journalists reporting on
Rajaratnam’s trial is  Jim McCarthy , who handles the defendant’s
media relations. McCarthy, the founder of New York-based
CounterPoint Strategies LLC, isn’t shy about his views of the
coverage.  “Some of the coverage has been” -- he paused for five
seconds as he considered his words -- “distorted and
irresponsible,” McCarthy said in an interview on April 26. He’s
particularly critical of some reporters and news organizations
who he claims “have been slanting their coverage” in hopes of
“gaining favor with the government,” he said.  McCarthy, 43, calls out such reporting on a  website  he
created for Rajaratnam, assailing the journalists for failing to
focus on the larger issues of the case. One such issue is, he
said, the abuse by prosecutors of wiretap laws. At the same
time, he extols the blog postings of several law professors and
the reporting of some online media outlets.  After representing Augusta National Golf Club when it came
under criticism for its all-male status in 2003, McCarthy  told
an interviewer  that he likes “to get in the arena, take off the
gloves and throw down.” He added, “To survive, you have to go
on the attack -- investigate the activists.” He said he stands
by those comments.  Public Information Office  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan , whose office is
prosecuting the Rajaratnam case, employs staffers in its Office
of Public Information, which updates the public on developments
in court proceedings and fields queries from the press.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman, declined to comment on McCarthy’s claims.  In Rajaratnam’s case, where McCarthy has employed online
ads critical of news outlets, he said his goal is to ensure
“balance, accuracy and objectivity” in news accounts. He said
his lack of a journalism  background  is no hindrance to his work.  “Don’t need one,” said McCarthy, who was present in court
throughout the trial. “Everyone from ordinary readers to PR
guys are capable of telling when a story is slanted or straight.
You don’t need a degree for that.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  