-- 
RBA Faces Rate Pressure as CPI Outweighs Record Currency: Australia Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   G a r f i e l d   R e y n o l d s
-- 
2011-04-28T10:06:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/rba-faces-rate-pressure-as-cpi-outweighs-record-currency-australia-credit.html
The Australian currency’s surge to
a record won’t slow the economy and contain inflation as money
market yields signal Reserve Bank Governor Glenn Stevens will
resume raising  interest rates .  Bank bill futures for December delivery dropped to the
lowest in more than a month on the  Sydney Futures Exchange ,
indicating a 68 percent chance the central bank will boost
borrowing costs after a government report showed consumer prices
rose 1.6 percent last quarter, the fastest pace since 2006. The
bank bill futures fell for a second day today to 95.080 compared
with 95.075 on March 11.  The nation’s currency, known as the Aussie, soared more
than 18 percent against the U.S. dollar in the past year as
Stevens lifted rates and a mining-investment boom drove
unemployment below 5 percent. Short-term bond yields climbed and
inflation expectations gained the most in more than a month as
the data showed measures that strip out volatile prices such as
food and energy exceeded economists’ forecasts.  The key issues for the RBA “will be the labor market and
the  exchange rate , which are both working in opposite
directions,” said Paul Bloxham, chief economist at HSBC in
Sydney and a former Reserve Bank official. “Balancing these two
influences will be the task undertaken as the RBA revises its
consumer-price index forecasts over the coming days.”  The bank bill futures fell for a third-straight day to
95.080 today, giving an implied yield of 4.92 percent. The RBA’s
benchmark rate of 4.75 percent compares with a range of zero to
0.25 percent in the U.S., a band of zero to 0.1 percent in  Japan ,
and 1.25 percent in  Europe .  Fed Rates  Traders have cut bets that the  Federal Reserve  will
increase rates this year. The likelihood Fed policy makers will
raise the target rate for overnight lending between banks by
their December meeting declined to 18 percent, from 24 percent a
week ago, Fed funds futures showed yesterday.  The local currency reached $1.0947 today, the highest since
exchange-rate controls were scrapped in 1983. Its advance
against the  U.S. dollar  in the past year is the third-largest
among Group of 10 currencies.  Australia , the only economy in the G-10 currency group to
avoid a recession following the 2008 financial crisis, has the
highest inflation expectations among eight developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  The gap between yields on five-year inflation-linked bonds
and debt not indexed to consumer prices yesterday widened two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.04 percent today,
the highest since April 20. The gap represents the rate of
inflation anticipated by investors as the central bank aims to
keep inflation in a range of 2 percent to 3 percent on average.  ‘Dampening Influence’  “It looks like the Australian dollar is exerting less of a
dampening influence in early 2011 compared with most of last
year,” said Su-Lin Ong, a fixed-income strategist at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Sydney. “Stripping out the impact of the
Queensland floods confirms a broadening in price pressures in
the quarter and an acceleration in underlying price pressures.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said in an interview last
month she’s worried about the stresses posed by the appreciation
of the Australian dollar.  While gains in the currency aided the RBA’s task of
controlling inflation in recent quarters by reducing import
costs, it has hurt some manufacturers that sell goods abroad.  “I’m very conscious that a strong Australian dollar has
benefits and it has burdens,” she said March 3 in Canberra.
“It certainly has burdens for some of our industries like
manufacturing and tourism.”  Aussie Forecast  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s largest lender,
raised its forecasts for the local dollar yesterday, on
expectations the currency will retain its interest-rate
advantage over the greenback.  The so-called Aussie will reach $1.12 by the end of
September, before declining to $1.04 at year-end,  Richard Grace ,
chief currency strategist for the Sydney-based bank, wrote in a
note to clients. Commonwealth Bank previously forecast the
currency would fall to 94 U.S. cents by Sept. 30.  Stevens boosted the benchmark lending rate by 175 basis
points to 4.75 percent from October 2009 to November last year,
from a half-century low of 3 percent, to control prices as
Chinese demand for energy and minerals encouraged hiring.
Australia’s benchmark rate compares with 1.25 percent in the
 euro zone  and as little as zero in the U.S.  RBA on Hold  The RBA’s halt to rate increases at its past four meetings
contrasts with central bankers from Beijing to  Frankfurt  who are
trying to stamp out inflation with higher borrowing costs or by
signaling monetary policy needs to be tightened.  Stephen Roberts , a senior economist at Nomura Australia Ltd.
in Sydney, yesterday reiterated his “out-of-consensus”
prediction that the RBA will raise rates next week as inflation
pressures build. At least 25 other economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast no rate change at the May 3 meeting.  The  Reserve Bank  said earlier this month that it will
“look through” the increase in inflation and slowdown in
growth triggered by rains and storms in Queensland in January
and February. The disasters compounded concerns about labor
shortages as an area the size of  Egypt  was declared a disaster
zone, including parts of the state capital, Brisbane.  Queensland produces 80 percent of steelmaking coal exports
from Australia, the world’s biggest supplier, and grows more
than 30 percent of the nation’s fruit and vegetables.  Queensland Impact  Finding skilled labor for reconstruction in Queensland,
plus the flood-damaged eastern states of Victoria and New South
Wales, may become more difficult. A mining industry’s expansion
has caused a worker shortage at a time when the jobless rate is
at the lowest level in two years.  Two coal-seam gas projects, expected to cost more than A$30
billion ($32.5 billion), are proceeding near the Queensland port
of Gladstone.  Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-largest oil
producer, and BG Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest gas
producer, will start hiring the first of more than 10,000
construction workers needed for the two projects later this year.  Australia’s economic growth accelerated in the final three
months of last year, the eighth-straight quarterly expansion,
before the floods and cyclones ravaged the nation’s northeast.  Longer-term debt has climbed relative to shorter maturity
notes, flattening the so-called yield curve, amid prospects that
the RBA will take action to damp price increases. Longer
maturities are more sensitive to expected changes in inflation,
which diminishes the value of the fixed payments from debt.  Falling Yields  The 10-year government bond yield declined 1 basis point to
5.44 percent. The difference between 3- and 10-year yields
shrank five basis points to 35 yesterday, extending a decline
from this year’s high of 53 on March 15. The gap was last at
36.5 today.  The two-year yield rose four basis points to 4.98 percent
yesterday, Bloomberg data show, and was at 4.96 percent at 3:47
p.m. today in Sydney. The premium over similar-dated U.S.
Treasuries was at 434 basis points, climbing from an eight-month
low of 407 on April 5.  Yesterday’s stronger-than-expected report on consumer
prices “will provide a wakeup call to a complacent market,”
RBC’s Ong said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  