-- 
Treasuries Snap Three-Day Rally Before Federal Reserve Decision, Note Sale

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-04-27T14:33:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/treasuries-snap-three-day-gain-before-durable-goods-data-five-year-sale.html
Treasuries declined, snapping a
three-day gain, before the  Federal Reserve  makes an interest-
rate decision and as the U.S. prepared to sell $35 billion of
five-year notes.  The losses pushed the 10-year yield up from the lowest
level in more than a month. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to speak to reporters today in his first
press conference after a policy meeting. The Fed kept demand for
Treasuries “deceptively” high through its program of debt
buying, Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the
world’s biggest bond fund, said in a  report .  “Traders are selling Treasuries to lock in profits before
today’s meeting, given the uncertainty,” said Guy LeBas, chief
fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia. “Expectations of a weaker five-year auction are
also adding to the weakness. It’s certainly an awkward time to
put on a five-year auction, so it’s unpredictable.”  Ten-year yields rose four basis points to 3.35 percent at
10:32 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021 slid
11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 9/32.  The 10-year yield will advance to 3.91 percent by the end
of December, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and
securities companies, with the most recent forecasts getting the
heaviest weightings.  Durable Goods  Treasury notes extended losses after orders for U.S.
durable goods rose in March for a third consecutive month.
Bookings for equipment meant to last at least three years
climbed 2.5 percent after a 0.7 percent gain the prior month
that reversed a previously reported drop, the Commerce
Department said today in Washington.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.5 percent, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed after initially
rising 0.2 percent. The index reached its highest level
yesterday since June 2008.  The five-year notes being sold today yielded 2.105 percent
in pre-auction trading, falling from 2.26 percent at the prior
sale of the securities on March 29.  “Investors surely have to take into consideration the
uncertainty brought about by the Fed press conference later in
the day,”  Dan Greenhaus , chief economic strategist at Miller
Tabak & Co. in New York wrote in a note to clients. “While our
view is that the chairman is not going to slip up and roil
global markets, we do believe that he enters the press
conference with a set number of ‘unveils,’ new pieces of
information he wishes to convey to markets.”  Five-Year Offering  Investors at last month’s five-year debt auction bid for
2.79 times the amount offered, in line with the average for the
past 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 42.4 percent of the notes, versus
the 10-sale average of 41.1 percent.  The Treasury issued $35 billion of two-year debt yesterday
and will conclude this week’s note auctions with $29 billion of
seven-year securities tomorrow. Current two-year note yields
fell yesterday to the lowest level in more than a month.  The Fed plans to release a policy statement at about 12:30
p.m.  Washington  time, and Bernanke is scheduled to speak to
reporters at 2:15 p.m. The press conference will be the first in
a series of four a year, each following a policy meeting, in an
effort by the central bank to improve communications with the
public.  Policy makers announced in November the Fed would buy $600
billion of Treasuries by the end of June to pump money into the
economy and support the expansion. The effort was the second
round in a strategy called quantitative easing.  ‘Deceptively So’  “The Fed has kept the demand for U.S. Treasuries high,
perhaps deceptively so,” Tony Crescenzi, a market strategist
and portfolio manager for Pimco in  Newport Beach ,  California ,
wrote in a report yesterday on the company’s website.
“Investors face the potential for capital losses for having
bought into the Fed’s scheme at prices inflated by QE.”  Volatility has fallen to almost a 13-month low, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Move index. The gauge,
measuring price swings based on over-the-counter options
maturing in two to 30 years, was at 81.30 yesterday, after
declining the previous day to 74.80, the lowest level since
March 17, 2010.  Treasuries have made investors 0.9 percent this month,
leaving them with a 0.8 percent advance since the end of 2010,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Treasury
Master Index. German bunds made 0.6 percent this month and are
down 1.6 percent since Dec. 31.  The central bank purchases also promote inflation, which
will erode bonds’ value, Crescenzi wrote.  Inflation Expectations  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, has widened to
2.60 percentage points from 2.28 percentage points on Dec. 31.
The 10-year average is 2.10 percentage points.  The central bank will leave its target interest rate for
overnight lending between banks at zero to 0.25 percent,
according to all 84 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
Fed has held the rate at that level since December 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  