-- 
U.S. 30-Year Bond Falls 1st Time in 4 Days as Fed Ups Inflation Forecast

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-04-27T21:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/treasuries-drop-as-fed-says-recovery-is-moderate-to-finish-bond-purchases.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 30-year
bonds down for the first time in four days, as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the  U.S. economy  is in a moderate
recovery and policy makers raised their inflation estimate.  Yields on the long bond rose the most in a week as
Bernanke, in his first press briefing after a Fed policy
meeting, wouldn’t predict when the central bank will start to
tighten monetary policy. The central bank also lowered its
forecast for economic growth, while Bernanke said inflation is
likely to be “transitory.” The U.S. sold $35 billion in five-
year debt in the second of three note auctions this week.  “Bernanke didn’t back down on the idea that rates would
stay low for an extended period and the Fed will err on the side
of inflation, which is a negative for longer-end Treasuries,”
said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of bonds at Wells
Fargo Capital Management in  Milwaukee . “The cost to that view
may be more inflation down the road.”  Thirty-year yields climbed six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 4.45 percent at 5:10 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They rose as much as
seven basis points, the biggest intraday jump since April 18.
The price of the 4.75 percent security due in February 2041 slid
1 2/32, or $10.63 per $1,000 face amount, to 104 7/8.  Ten-year note yields rose five basis points to 3.36
percent. Two-year note yields gained four basis points to 0.64
percent and touched 0.70 percent, the highest since April 15.  ‘Moderate Pace’  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said today in its
statement after a two-day meeting that the “economic recovery
is proceeding at a moderate pace and overall conditions in the
labor market are improving gradually.”  Price increases for fuel and other commodities have pushed
up inflation in recent months, and this should be
“transitory,” policy makers said in the statement.  “If that’s not the case and you are holding longer-
duration securities, and commodity prices continue to move
higher, and the Fed is saying they won’t adjust monetary policy
to address that, then you will be concerned about the value of
your long-duration portfolio,” said  Richard Bryant , head of
treasury trading in New York at MF Global Inc., one of 20
primary dealers that trade with the central bank.  A measure of prices will rise between 2.1 percent and 2.8
percent this year before moderating, the Fed’s revised outlook
showed. The estimate for the index of personal consumption
expenditures minus food and energy, the central bank’s preferred
inflation gauge, was an increase of 1.3 percent to 1.6 percent
this year, compared with a previous prediction of a 1 percent to
1.3 percent gain.  Growth Outlook  The Fed’s range of estimates for growth this year was cut
to 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent, from January’s forecast of 3.4
percent to 3.9 percent.  “Bernanke’s statement overall wasn’t earth-shattering, but
the recognition that inflation is drifting higher and growth is
weaker were the key takeaways,” said James Caron, head of U.S.
interest-rate strategy at the primary dealer Morgan Stanley in
 New York . “Inflation is always the No. 1 culprit.”  The central bank held its target rate for overnight lending
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent, as forecast by all 84
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. It reiterated that the
rate will be “exceptionally low” for an “extended period.”
It rate has not been changed since December 2008.  Bernanke has signaled he wants to ensure the economy has
achieved self-sustaining growth before the Fed starts to raise
borrowing costs and trim its $2.69-trillion balance sheet.  Purchase Program  Policy makers announced in November the Fed would buy $600
billion of Treasuries by the end of June to spur employment and
avert deflation. Bernanke said today the program will be
completed.  The Fed chief also said the central bank is likely to
continue reinvesting its securities holdings, including
mortgage-backed securities, as they mature even after June.  Treasuries rose over the past two weeks as investors
speculated that efforts to cut the federal  budget deficit  may
damp economic growth. Since the last Fed meeting on March 15,
economic data has been mixed and concern that  oil prices  are
rising and the budget deficit isn’t being addressed have
encouraged caution about the recovery.  Government debt has returned 0.8 percent this year after
gaining 5.9 percent last year, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Treasury Master index.  U.S. economic growth has cooled this year, Commerce
Department data tomorrow are forecast to show. Gross domestic
product rose at a 2 percent annual pace from January through
March after increasing at a 3.1 percent rate in the final
quarter of 2010, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Crude Oil   Crude oil has surged 23 percent this year, with May futures
reaching a 30-month high of $113.48 a barrel in New York on
April 25.  A bond market measure of inflation expectations the Fed
uses to help determine monetary policy is at 3.02 percentage
points, compared with a 2011 low of 2.77 percentage points on
Feb. 16. The five-year forward break-even rate projects what the
pace of consumer price increases may be beginning in 2016. It
averaged 2.78 percentage points over the past five years.  The five-year notes sold in today’s auction drew a yield of
2.124 percent, matching the forecast of nine primary dealers in
a Bloomberg News survey. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 2.77, compared with an average of 2.8 for the
previous 10 sales.  The Treasury sold $35 billion in two-year debt yesterday
and will auction $29 billion of seven-year notes tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  