-- 
Treasuries Decline as U.S. Sells $35 Billion in Notes Before Fed Statement

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-04-27T16:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/treasuries-remain-lower-after-35-billion-auction-of-u-s-five-year-notes.html
Treasuries remained lower, snapping
a three-day rally, after the U.S. sold $35 billion in five-year
notes an hour before the release of results from today’s  Federal
Reserve  policy meeting.  The notes drew a yield of 2.124 percent, matching the
forecast of nine of the Fed’s primary dealers in a Bloomberg
News survey. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
2.77, compared with an average of 2.8 for the previous 10 sales.  “We are just taking back yesterday’s move,” said  Priya Misra , head of U.S. rates strategy at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in New York, which as one of the 20 primary dealers is
obligated to bid in U.S. debt auctions. “The auction went well
enough. There have been concerns about who would buy Treasuries
with the Fed’s buying ending soon.”  The yield on the current five-year note rose five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.06 percent at 11:59 a.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It
dropped six basis points yesterday. The yield on the benchmark
10-year note increased four basis points to 3.35 percent after
falling six basis points yesterday.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who gives his first press
conference today after a meeting of policy makers, has signaled
he wants to ensure the  U.S. economy  has achieved self-sustaining
growth before the central bank starts to raise borrowing costs
and trim its $2.69-trillion balance sheet.  Fed officials will probably prepare to pull back from
record stimulus by dropping a pledge this year to hold the main
interest rate near zero for an “extended period,” according to
a Bloomberg News survey.  Statement Speculation  Thirty-three of 44 economists surveyed said the central
bank will remove the two-word phrase from its post-meeting
statement in 2011, with 18 betting it will move by September.  The Fed may wait until 2012 to announce sales of mortgage
or Treasury securities it bought to reduce borrowing costs, with
26 respondents expecting a plan next year, according to the
survey, conducted from April 20 to April 25.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 40 percent of the notes, compared with
an average of 41 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 11.2 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 10.2 percent at the last
10 auctions.  Five-year notes have returned 1.08 percent this year,
compared with a 0.80 percent gain for the broader Treasury
market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Today’s offering is the second of three note auctions this
week totaling $99 billion. The Treasury sold $35 billion in two-
year debt yesterday and will auction $29 billion of seven-year
notes tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  