-- 
Record Number of Singaporeans to Vote as Opposition Mounts Biggest Fight

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-04-27T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/record-number-of-singaporeans-to-vote-as-opposition-mounts-biggest-fight.html
Singaporean teacher Roland Lee, 35,
hasn’t voted since reaching eligible age in 1996, missing three
elections because the opposition didn’t contest the ruling party
in his district. This year will be different.  “It’s high time,” Lee said. “The last time I came close
to a polling center was when I was nine and I followed my
parents to cast their ballots.”  Singapore’s opposition groups yesterday fielded enough
candidates to challenge Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s
 People’s Action Party  for 82 of 87 parliamentary seats on May 7,
in the biggest contest since the island’s independence in 1965.
A record 2.21 million eligible voters will get to cast their
ballot as Lee seeks a new mandate from citizens facing rising
costs of living and competition with foreigners for jobs.  “This is about as enticing as it can get in Singapore,”
said Ng Soo Nam, Singapore-based chief investment officer at
Nikko Asset Management, which oversees about $126 billion.
“There could be some scope for surprises, but nothing that
would shake investments in any meaningful way because it’s still
quite clear that the PAP would still run government and its
policies would continue.”  Since he took office in August 2004, Lee, 59, has lifted a
ban on casinos, cut corporate taxes and boosted financial
services and tourism to reduce the nation’s reliance on exports.  Record Growth  Singapore ’s economy expanded a record 14.5 percent last
year and the local dollar has risen to unprecedented levels this
month as the central bank allowed further gains to tame
inflation, which was 5 percent in March. The currency traded as
high as S$1.2301 a dollar yesterday, the strongest level since
at least 1981 when Bloomberg data began.  Politicians compete in single-seat wards or multiple-seat
districts called Group Representation Constituencies, or GRCs.
The party which gets the most number of votes in a constituency
sends all its members to parliament, and the PAP has never lost
a GRC.  In previous polls, opposition parties left many GRCs
unopposed because they require more candidates. The PAP won the
2001, 1997 and 1991  elections  by default because opposition
groups didn’t field enough candidates.  In the 2006 elections, seven GRCs were unopposed, leaving
about 936,000 Singaporeans without the opportunity to vote. In
2001, 10 GRCs were unopposed and 1.36 million eligible citizens
didn’t get a chance to vote. Singapore has a population of 5.1
million, of which 3.2 million are citizens.  ‘Contested Strongly’  The last polls, held on May 6, 2006, returned the PAP to
power with about 67 percent of the votes cast, down from 75
percent in the 2001 elections. The ruling party was uncontested
in 37 of the 84  parliamentary  seats at that time.  “It’s good that we are contested, and contested
strongly,” Prime Minister Lee said in a televised press
conference yesterday. “A stronger opposition will crystallize
the issues and make Singaporeans realize more what is at stake
in these elections. It’s for real, it has very serious
consequences.”  Minister Mentor Lee Kuan Yew, who ran the country from 1959
to 1990 and is the father of the current prime minister, will
return to parliament unopposed as his Tanjong Pagar constituency,
which has five seats in the lawmaking body, was unchallenged by
the opposition.  Singapore law stipulates that as many as nine opposition
politicians can get a seat in the legislative body regardless of
the outcome of the election. The parliament that was dissolved
last week was made up of 82 PAP lawmakers, two elected
opposition politicians, one non-elected opposition member and
nine non-elected independents.  Market Impact  “If there is a result that’s a lot less than expected for
the ruling party, such as if they lose 20 to 30 percent of the
number of seats in the parliament,” investors may sell Singapore
assets, said Pearlyn Wong, an investment analyst at  Julius Baer
Group Ltd. (BAER)  “There could be some weakness in the  Singapore
dollar  as the  risk premium  might actually increase. This is the
worst-case scenario.”  Chen Show-Mao, the head of Wall Street law firm Davis Polk
& Wardwell LLP’s Beijing office, is seeking election as a
candidate for the opposition  Workers’ Party . He and other
opposition members have said their presence will provide a check
and balance against the 46-year rule of the PAP since
independence.  “The best way to ensure good governance for Singapore is
through the growth of a competitive opposition that offers a
credible alternative to the party in government,” Chen said.  Lee disagrees. Yesterday, he urged Singaporeans to vote for
the PAP so that decisions on government policies can continue to
proceed smoothly without the dissension that has marred policy
making in other countries.  “If you are permanently divided and you’re always two-
thirds say yes and one-third say nay, and then we argue every
issue, then you become like America,” Japan or  Belgium , Lee said.
“That’s exactly what we don’t want to do and that’s exactly what
we fear.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 Jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  