-- 
Reid Says He Favors Deficit Cap in Debate Over Curbing Debt

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-04-27T20:51:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/reid-says-he-favors-cap-on-deficits-in-debate-over-curbing-debt.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said he favors setting a cap on the U.S. government’s annual
budget deficits as part of a debate over raising the nation’s
legal borrowing limit.  “If we’re able to cap deficits, it automatically brings
down the debt,” Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said today in a
conference call with reporters. “That’s the key to all of
this.”  A vote to raise the ceiling on the government’s accumulated
debt is the top issue for lawmakers, who return from a two-week
recess next week. The Treasury Department is projecting that the
government could reach the $14.3 trillion limit as soon as mid-
May and could run out of options for avoiding default by early
July.  Republican House and Senate leaders have said that they
will demand a commitment from President  Barack Obama  to rein in
federal spending before they agree to raising the debt.  Reid said he met with White House officials yesterday to
discuss the debt debate, which he said will be far more
important than the recent battle over this year’s budget that
almost resulted in a government shutdown. The debt issue, he
said, “deals with the full faith and credit of the
government,” and Democrats are “not going to be drawing any
lines in the sand” as it begins.  Reid didn’t elaborate on how caps on deficits might work,
saying “there are lots of ways to do it.”  Deficit Estimate  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimates the  budget
deficit  will reach $1.4 trillion this fiscal year, which ends
Sept. 30. Obama called for a deficit cap in his recent proposal
on curbing the debt. His plan would cap deficits at a 2.8
percent share of gross domestic product in the second half of
the decade.  Some past budget deals have included limits on annual
deficits paired with required budget changes if they aren’t met
to attempt to restore fiscal balance. The 1985 Gramm-Rudman-
Hollings Act set annual targets for reduced deficits over five
years and required automatic spending cuts if the goals weren’t
met. The act was frequently skirted, though, when administration
officials charged with imposing cuts if the targets weren’t met
would change economic assumptions to improve projected deficits.  Bond Yields  While the deficit dominates political debate in  Washington ,
bond market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the
government was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago, even as
Treasury Department data show that the amount of marketable debt
outstanding has risen to more than $9 trillion from about $4.3
trillion in mid-2007.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note is below the
average of about 7 percent since 1980 and the average of 5.48
percent in 1998 through 2001, the last time the U.S. had a
budget surplus, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Ten-year yields rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 3.35 percent at 4:49 p.m. in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
gained 95.59 points, or 0.8 percent, to 12,690.96 as of 4 p.m.
in New York.  Oil Subsidies  Reid said he will schedule a Senate floor vote as early as
next week on legislation that would repeal billions of dollars
in government subsidies to  oil companies . Obama has proposed
repealing tax breaks to the oil and gas industry and using the
money to invest in alternative energy sources. With gasoline
prices surpassing $4 a gallon in some regions of the nation, the
vote is partly designed to put Republicans who have supported
the tax breaks on the spot.  Reid also said he wants a vote putting Senate Republicans
on record on whether they support a House-passed Republican
budget that would cut spending by more than $6 trillion over a
decade and privatize Medicare.  The House passed the plan drafted by House Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, by a 235-193 vote on
April 15. Democrats in both chambers have said that the plan
will be a campaign issue in the 2012 elections, in part because
the Medicare provision could anger older voters.  All those backing the House budget blueprint were
Republicans; four party members joined 189 Democrats in  voting 
against it. “We’ll see how much the Republicans like it here in
the Senate,” Reid said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  