-- 
Reliance Industries Cut to Neutral at Goldman on Lack of Profit `Surprise'

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-04-27T03:34:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/reliance-industries-cut-to-neutral-from-buy-at-goldman-sachs.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , India’s
biggest company by market value, was cut to “neutral” from
“buy” by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which said prospects for
any “medium-term earnings surprise” may be limited.  The brokerage lowered its share-price estimate to 1,125
rupees from 1,250 rupees and removed Reliance from its Asia
“conviction buy” list following the company’s fourth-quarter
results, analysts led by Nilesh Banerjee wrote in a report.  Reliance, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , posted a
14 percent increase in net income in the three months ended
March 31 to 53.8 billion rupees ($1.2 billion), the slowest
growth in six quarters. Profit missed the 54.3 billion rupee
average estimate of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg survey as output
of natural gas fell from the KG-D6 block, the country’s largest.  “We remain concerned about its E&P division owing to a
lack of clarity on D-6 production levels and slow progress in
exploration acreage,” the analysts said.  Reliance has declined 3.8 percent for two consecutive days
since April 21, when the earnings were announced.  Of 46 analysts tracking Reliance, 35 recommend buying the
stock and two advocate selling, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. At least 27 brokerages, including Credit Suisse Group
AG and BNP Paribas, maintained their recommendations.  Goldman raised its recommendation on state-run Oil &
Natural Gas Corp.,  India ’s biggest energy explorer, and refiner
Hindustan Petroleum Corp. to “buy” and added them to its
“conviction buy” list. It revised the rating on Indian Oil
Corp., the country’s biggest refiner, to “buy” from
“neutral” and boosted the price forecast to 388 rupees from
375 rupees.  Mumbai-based VCK Share & Stock Broking Services Ltd. cut
its rating on Reliance to “reduce” from “buy” on April 25
and IDBI Capital Market Services Ltd. cut its rating to
“accumulate” from “buy” three days earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  