-- 
Renesas Electronics May Complete Plant Inspections Early

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-04-27T09:45:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/renesas-electronics-may-complete-plant-inspections-early-1-.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the
biggest maker of microcontrollers used in cars, mobile phones
and cameras, said it may complete inspections at a plant closed
by last month’s earthquake in Japan ahead of schedule.  Renesas may finish inspections at the Naka plant in Ibaraki
prefecture early, plant manager Takashi Aoyagi said today at the
factory, as it works to restart output by June 15. The plant
makes 200-millimeter and 300-millimeter chips for cars and
electronics.  Reopening the plant may help carmakers restore output after
Japan’s record earthquake on March 11 damaged factories of parts
makers including Renesas and knocked out power stations, forcing
all of the nation’s auto manufacturers to halt production due to
shortages of components and electricity. Renesas, based in
Kawasaki,  Japan , shut eight domestic plants after the disaster.  Renesas fell 0.3 percent to 687 yen at the 3 p.m. close
of trading in Tokyo. The stock has declined 20 percent since
March 10.  The company has 30 percent of the global market for
microcontrollers, which are used in cars, mobile phones,
television sets, cameras, refrigerators and rice cookers.  Renesas will start with production of about 3,000 20-
millimeter wafers a month at the Naka plant, just under 10
percent of capacity, Corporate Officer Tetsuya Tsurumaru, in
charge of the company’s production operations, told reporters
today at Renesas’ Naka plant in Ibaraki prefecture, Japan. An
equal amount will be produced at the company’s other factories
which are partially making up for the shortfall.  Factory Repairs  About 300 workers from customers including carmakers have
been helping Renesas with repairs to factory building structures
and water and electric systems, Aoyagi said. About 60 percent of
output of 20-mm wafers at the Naka plant is typically used in
cars, he said.  Renesas will announce in mid May its outlook on when
production at the Naka plant will return to full capacity.  About 50 microcontrollers are used to help various
functions in cars, including navigation systems, monitors that
assist driving, dashboard meters and audio systems, according to
Renesas.  The chipmaker was formed in September 2009, with  NEC Corp. (6701) 
holding a 35 percent stake,  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  a 31 percent stake and
 Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503)  owning 25 percent.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker, may lose
production of 300,000 vehicles in Japan and 100,000 overseas
through the end of April due to quake-related shutdowns,
Executive Vice President Atsushi Niimi said last week. With
output below normal levels until November or December, the
company is unlikely to meet its full-year global production
target of 7.7 million vehicles, he said.  Short Supply  About 150 parts, mostly materials such as rubber and
plastics, are still in critically short supply, the carmaker’s
President  Akio Toyoda  said April 22.  Honda Motor Co.’s output of cars and parts in Japan will
remain at 50 percent of regular capacity until the end of June,
the company said on April 25. Production will return to normal
levels by the end of the year, it said.  Japanese carmakers also face possible blackouts in the
coming warmer months after the natural disasters reduced the
nation’s power-generating capacity by 8 percent. Automakers are
considering electricity-saving options such as shifting work to
weekends to conserve power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  Tokyo  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  