-- 
Rockwell Slides After Operating Profit Trails Estimates

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-04-27T17:18:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/rockwell-slides-after-operating-profit-trails-estimates-2-.html
Rockwell Automation Inc. (ROK) , the
Milwaukee-based maker of factory-automation software, fell the
most since February 2009 after quarterly operating profit
trailed analysts’ estimates.  The company posted operating income of about $220 million
in the three months through March, trailing the average estimate
of $223 million from six analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
Deutsche Bank AG had estimated operating income of $224 million,
Nigel Coe, a New York-based analyst, said today in a note to
clients.  The company’s “essentially unchanged guidance of $4.40 to
$4.60, tightened by 10 cents at the low end, will likely be
perceived as a major negative,” Coe said. “We don’t think that
management is being that conservative since the company has
earned $2.17 in the first half, meaning that we have yet to
cover 50 percent of fiscal-year guidance at the low end.”  Rockwell dropped $8.56, or 8.8 percent, to $89.28 at 1:12
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
earlier fell as much as 12 percent, the largest intraday decline
since February 2009.  Net income in the company’s fiscal second quarter climbed
21 percent to $166.4 million, or $1.14 a share, from $137
million, or 95 cents, a year earlier, Rockwell said today in a
statement. Sales gained 26 percent to $1.46 billion.  Revenue growth “was very strong,” Chief Executive Officer
Keith Nosbusch said in a telephone interview. “We saw strong
growth in  Latin America , strong growth in  Europe , Middle East
and  Africa  and strong growth” at original equipment
manufacturers.  Asia Growth  Rockwell said Asia-Pacific sales advanced 22 percent,
excluding currency effects. That was slower than 26 percent
growth, on a comparable basis, in the previous quarter.  Asia  is “a disappointment in the context of a bull case
that relies on  China  growth as a driver,” C. Stephen Tusa, a
New York-based analyst with JPMorgan & Co. said in a note to
clients. He has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  The growth rates in Asia in the past two quarters, and in
China in the second quarter, “are all growth rates above the
market growth rate, the underlying growth rate, so I’m not sure
what everyone else was expecting, but it certainly met our
expectations,” Nosbusch said.  Rockwell shares climbed 36 percent this year before today,
a climb that Julian Mitchell, a Credit Suisse analyst in New
York, said was helped partly by strong earnings reports from the
company’s peers.  That gain, along with no increase in the top end of the
company’s full-year profit projections, is “likely to mean the
stock is under some pressure today,” Mitchell wrote in a note
to clients. He rates the stock “outperform” and Coe rates it
“hold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  