-- 
Trump’s Diggers Should Look for Real Idea: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-04-27T14:13:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/trump-s-diggers-should-look-for-real-ideas-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
If anyone can grow up to be
president, does that mean anyone who runs should be covered as
if he could be president, even when he couldn’t possibly be?  I’m speaking of  Donald Trump . The press is caught in a
spiral, covering his possible candidacy and rise in the polls,
which necessitate covering him even more.  Trump enjoys the eternal appeal of the barker at the
circus, the motivational speaker, the in-your-face huckster. Not
for him the buttoned-down demeanor of a CEO with a board of
stuffed shirts. The huckster never has to prove he’s really
successful -- Trump could be in kneecap-breaking hock, for all
we know -- so long as he lives as if he is.  What’s made this brush with candidacy different than his
previous ones is that he’s ridden the discredited birther
movement for all its worth.  Big-name Republicans, not wanting to lose the roughly 45
percent of their voters who still don’t believe  Barack Obama  is
a natural-born citizen, talk about the issue in careful code:
“I take the president at his word” (House Speaker  John Boehner ) or “It’s distracting” (Sarah Palin).  Not so the real-estate developer with an ego as tall as a
skyscraper. Every time the supposed facts his crack  team of
investigators  discovers in  Hawaii  are exposed as hokum, he
doubles down.  Obama’s grandmother never said she was present at his birth
in  Kenya ; a translator did, and it was immediately corrected.
Obama’s certificate of live birth is genuine. His birth notice
in Honolulu newspapers wasn’t part of a grand conspiracy to
clear the way for him to be president someday.  Case Closed  After the White House today released copies of Obama’s
long-form birth certificate, Trump was triumphant where others
might be apologetic. “From day one, I said I hope he gives the
certificate, because I don’t want this issue clouding a
campaign,” Trump told reporters.  Obama, clearly amazed he was having to address such an
issue at a press conference aired live by the networks, said
it’s time to stop being “distracted by sideshows and carnival
barkers.”  That Trump rode such an ugly horse this far is a stain on
some Republicans that exposes how unappealing the roster of
presidential aspirants is. One of the best potential candidates,
Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour , said Monday he won’t run.
That could mean his close friend, Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels, gets in. Or it could mean that Trump and other out-of-
the-mainstream candidates, such as Representative  Michele Bachmann , continue to drown out more-plausible, less carnival-
ready alternatives. Heard much from  Tim Pawlenty  lately?  Seeking Attention  Trump’s ascension shows our politics are now so roiled that
any outsider is appealing. When  I spent time  with him, in 1999,
he was a harmless gadfly, pre-“Apprentice,” frustrated that he
didn’t get more attention for himself and his books. He built
his presidential exploratory committee on spec, as if it were a
gaudy new building he would flip at any moment.  He had his constituency -- “The guy who picks up the bus
at the  Port Authority , gets $50 in chips and a ticket for the
all-you-can-eat buffet and takes the missus to the Trump Taj
Mahal, he loves me,” Trump told me then -- and his mansions
(his murals rivaled the Sistine Chapel;  Mar-a-Lago  was superior
to the White House), and his name plastered everywhere. It just
wasn’t enough.  Family Values  Even after an ugly divorce from Ivana and a tabloid-hot
romance with Marla “Best Sex I Ever Had” Maples, he could
quickly correct for running low on family values. “I could be
married in 24 hours,” he said, shining the lamp in the back of
his limousine on his then-companion, now-wife, model Melania
Knauss. “Is this the next first lady of the  United States , or
what?”  His marital status isn’t all that’s changed. This time
around he’s pro-life, pro-religion, pro-bombing for Mideast oil,
and anti-health care reform. (He used to support a single-payer
system.) He once proposed a 20 percent surtax on Japanese
imports, back when he hated  Japan  for the Toyotas they made the
way he now loathes the Chinese for the cheap building materials
they provide.  Trump is a more clownish and vulgar version of the amateurs
who jump into presidential politics without engaging much but
their mouths previously: the Pats (Buchanan and Robertson),
moralists (Alan Keyes and Gary Bauer), and businessmen (tire
magnate Morry Taylor, data-processing magnate  Ross Perot  and
magnate-chronicler  Steve Forbes ).  No Ideas  At least some of the amateurs had a cause. Perot, whose
flameout included imagined black helicopters buzzing his
daughter’s wedding, ran on the idea that deficits were bad,
Buchanan on “America First,” Forbes on a flat tax. Trump is
running on almost no ideas at all.  That doesn’t seem to bother one high-profile conservative,
Franklin Graham. The Christian evangelist and son of Billy
Graham told ABC’s  Christiane Amanpour  that the more you listen
to Trump, “the more you say to yourself, you know, maybe the
guy is right.”  Donald Trump, prospective candidate of the godly set. Try
selling that as a reality show.  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  