-- 
Russia’s RTS Stock-Index Futures Advance on Oil, Fed Outlook

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-04-27T21:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/russia-s-rts-stock-index-futures-advance-on-oil-fed-outlook.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
advanced, signaling the  Micex index (INDEXCF)  may rise today for the first
time this week, as crude prices gained and the U.S. Federal
Reserve pledged to stimulate economic growth.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
jumped 2.1 percent yesterday. Contracts on OAO Rosneft, Russia’s
biggest oil producer, rose 1.5 percent. Contracts on OAO Lukoil,
the second-largest, gained 1.2 percent. OAO Gazprom, a natural-
gas export monopoly, advanced 1.8 percent.  Federal Reserve policy makers said yesterday that the  U.S.
economy  is recovering at a “moderate pace” and a pickup in
inflation is likely to be temporary, as they agreed to finish
$600 billion of bond purchases on schedule in June.  “The Fed’s clear intention to keep rates extremely low
will continue to be supportive in the near term,” said Yan Gloukhovski, a trader at Alforma Capital Markets, the  New York 
branch of Russia’s Alfa Bank. “While ending the stimulus
program, the Fed is clearly keen to head off any expectations on
tightening.”  Russian stocks retreated to their lowest in more than a
week yesterday after metals fell and Bank of America Merrill
Lynch cut its recommendations for steelmakers, saying prices had
peaked.  Bernanke’s Remarks  The country’s ruble denominated, 30-stock Micex gauge
slipped for a third straight day, declining 1.2 percent to
1,744.95 by the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow. The dollar-
denominated RTS Index declined 0.8 percent to 2,017.64.  In the U.S., the Fed statement and a press briefing by
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  sent equities up and pushed benchmark
indexes to almost three-year highs.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.6 percent to
1,355.66 at 4:24 p.m. in New York after falling as much as 0.2
percent before the Fed’s statement. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  climbed 0.8 percent.  Russian stock futures were buoyed by crude oil, which rose
to a two-week high yesterday after a U.S. Energy Department
report showed that gasoline stockpiles tumbled to the lowest
level since August 2009.  Crude for June delivery added 0.5 percent to $112.76 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. It was the
highest settlement since April 8 when futures climbed to
$112.79, a 30-month high. Prices are up 37 percent from a year
ago. Oil and natural gas account for a quarter of Russia’s
economic output.  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s biggest miner, fell 0.5
percent. Oil producer OAO Gazprom Neft sank 2.9 percent.  Steel producers OAO Severstal, OAO Magnitogorsk Iron &
Steel and OAO Novolipetsk Steel retreated after Bank of America
cut their ratings to “neutral” from “buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  