-- 
U.S., China Demand for Power Networks Drives 30% Advance in LS Cable Sales

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-04-27T10:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/ls-cable-expects-2011-sales-to-climb-30-on-overseas-demand.html
LS Cable & System Ltd.,  South
Korea ’s biggest wire and cable maker, expects sales to jump 30
percent this year as demand increases in overseas markets
including  China  and the U.S., President Son Jong Ho said.  The company, a unit of  LS Corp. (006260) , expects total sales to
climb to about 10 trillion won ($9.3 billion) from 7.7 trillion
in 2010, Son, also a co-CEO of the Anyang, South Korea-based
firm, said in an interview yesterday.  Global cable makers may benefit from increased spending by
China on power networks and the faster upgrading of
international transmission lines after the nuclear crisis in
Japan, Seoul-based Kiwoom Securities Co. said in an April 25
report. LS Cable wants to become the world’s biggest maker by
2015 through expansion overseas, outstripping Italy’s  Prysmian
SpA (PRY)  and Paris-based  Nexans SA (NEX) , Son said.  “Demand in the global cable market will show continuous
growth this year, although the Middle East may slow down due to
the unrest,” Son said. “Energy use will continue growing in
China and India as cities urbanize. The outlook for the U.S.
market is bright as demand to replace old power cables will
increase.”  LS Cable expects operating profit to climb about 15 percent
this year, he said, without giving figures. LS Corp., which has
other units including LS-Nikko Copper Inc., has advanced 30
percent in Seoul trading over the past year, outperforming a 26
percent gain in the benchmark  Kospi index. (KOSPI)   Renewable Energy  “We expect undersea cable demand to rise as the nuclear
crisis in  Japan  will prompt more investment in renewable energy,
especially wind power,” Son also said. “Increasing electric
car production will boost demand for electric vehicle quick-
chargers and the growing number of smart phone users should
increase the need for new telecommunication lines.”  LS Cable plans to invest about $60 million through Atlanta-
based Superior Essex Inc. to build a power cable plant in North
Carolina to begin production in 2012 and is spending $36 million
to add a plant in India, it said in April. LS Cable may invest
more in the U.S. unit to boost output and may build a power
cable plant in  Europe , Son said, without elaborating.  “Since it’s hard to expect fast growth in the Korean
market, LS Cable needs to seek growth in foreign markets,” Kim
Ji San, a Kiwoom analyst, said today. “The company is going in
the right direction by expanding into faster-growing markets.”  As production increases, LS’s requirement for copper
including overseas units’ needs may climb about 10 percent next
year from 550,000 metric tons this year, he said.  In the face of high copper prices, LS Cable and its rivals
in Asia are likely to increase use of aluminum as they seek
cheaper alternatives, Son said.  Copper, used to make wires, cables and pipes, advanced 26
percent in the past year in  London . Three-month delivery copper
dropped 1.3 percent to $9,418 a ton as of 7:15 p.m.  Seoul  time,
while aluminum was little changed at $2,746.50 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  