-- 
Sartre’s Damned Flicker in Hell; Three Sad Sisters: S.F. Stage

-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 
2011-04-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/sartre-s-damned-flicker-in-hell-three-sad-sisters-s-f-stage.html
Jean-Paul Sartre’s idea of hell --
to be locked in a shabby hotel room with two strangers who don’t
like you -- gets an inventive, video-enhanced staging in  San
Francisco  that reanimates the 1944 script.  We’re greeted by an almost bare, warehouse-like space
overseen by a young man who resembles a bellhop from “Grand
Hotel,” complete with pillbox hat. He talks briefly on the
phone to his boss.  “Are they saying how many more times we do this?” he
asks. One by one he ushers three people into the next room: a
middle-aged man in suit and hat, and two women -- a mousy
brunette and a brassy blonde, who seems to have stepped out of a
Hitchcock movie. Then he locks the door behind them.  Most of the play takes place in that room, which we see
through video projections on three large screens suspended above
the set. Cradeau, Inez and Estelle interrogate and insult and
even try to ignore each other.  “You’re here because you’re a collaborator,” Inez says to
Cradeau.  “No, I just tortured my wife,” he retorts. The caddish
Cradeau, who was an important journalist before he was executed
by a firing squad, will later try to seduce Estelle, who has her
own shady past.  Confessing Sins  Unaware of the surveillance cameras overhead, the three
walk in and out of the video frame as they confess their sins
and observe the funerals and other goings-on of the living.  The actors’ movements create weirdly distorted images of
themselves on the video screens. Meanwhile, the bellhop offers
silent commentary. With pantomimed gestures and hand-lettered
signs, he’s a sardonic Greek chorus, dissecting the action in
the next room.  Still, when he asks his boss on the phone whether he needs
to use the thumbscrews this time, it’s clear he’s lost his
enthusiasm for his job.  The production, based on a translation by Paul Bowles and
directed by Kim Collier, was developed in  Vancouver  and features
a remarkable set by Jay Gower Taylor and a solid cast led by
Andy Thompson as Cradeau and Lucia Frangione as Estelle.  Through May 1 at  American Conservatory Theater , 415 Geary
Street, San Francisco. Information: +1-415-749-2228;
 http://www.act-sf.org .
Rating: ***  ‘Three Sisters’  Anton Chekhov’s 1901 “Three Sisters” offers its own view
of hell: being trapped in the sticks with no chance of getting
back to the big city, in this case Moscow.  Berkeley Repertory Theatre’s revival, with a new
translation by Sarah Ruhl, efficiently lays out this domestic
landscape of longing. The three sisters in question -- Olga the
spinster and schoolteacher; Masha, stuck in an unhappy marriage;
and Irina, the young beauty in search of a husband -- live at
the family estate controlled by their brother, Andre, who’s
married to the provincial yet ambitious Natasha.  The sisters, who left Moscow 11 years ago, draw to their
home a regular group of soldiers stationed in the town,
including two suitors for Irena and a lover for Masha. For the
sisters, these officers could be a way out.  The handsome production is directed by Les Waters, who also
staged the premiere of Ruhl’s 2009 hit “In the Next Room (or
the vibrator play” at Berkeley Rep and on Broadway last year.
Yet only sometimes does ‘Three Sisters’ match the heat of that
show, notably in scenes with Heather Wood (Irina), Natalia Payne
(Masha) and Bruce McKenzie (Vershinin).  “Three Sisters” runs through May 22 at  Berkeley Repertory
Theatre , 2025 Addison St. Information: +1-510-647-2949;
 http://www.berkeleyrep.org 
Rating: ** 1/2  (Stephen West is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 