-- 
Scene Last Night: Ondaatje, Siddhartha Mukherjee, Jhumpa Lahiri

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-27T16:02:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/scene-last-night-ondaatje-talese-siddhartha-mukherjee-jhumpa-lahiri.html
Writer Barbara Goldsmith sent a
chill through the Hall of Ocean Life last night.  Speaking to 550 guests gathered at the  American Museum of
Natural History  for the  PEN American Center  gala, Goldsmith read
a letter reporting on human-rights lawyer and writer Nasrin
Sotoudeh, who is in prison in  Iran  and was given PEN’s Freedom
to Write Award.  “On March 17, 2011, officials stormed her cell and took
away all the writing,” Goldsmith read from the letter, written
by the prisoner’s husband, Reza Khandan. “She does not even
have a pencil to mark the days as they slowly pass on the prison
wall.”  If she serves her full sentence, Khandan figures, his wife
“will be without a pen for 4,000 days,” read Goldsmith, a
biographer and philanthropist who endowed the Freedom to Write
award.  Of the 37 writers who received the award while they were in
prison, 32 have gotten out, Goldsmith said: “Our commitment is
to do what we can.”  Shirin Ebadi, recipient of the 2003 Nobel Peace Prize,
accepted the award for Sotoudeh and noted that her circumstances
are exceptionally cruel.  “Throughout history, writers have been allowed to write,”
Ebadi said.  The event raised $850,000 for PEN’s general operations and
$150,000 for the  PEN World Voices Festival of International
Literature , which runs through May 1. Guests, seated on hot-pink
cushions and served chicken, included writers Philip Gourevitch,
Larissa MacFarquhar, Siddhartha Mukherjee, Jhumpa Lahiri and Gay
Talese.  ‘The Cat’s Table’  Michael Ondaatje, Sri Lanka-born author of “The  English
Patient ,” received the PEN Literary Service Award. Ondaatje
dedicated his award to Tamil lawyer Neelan Tiruchelvam, who was
killed by a suicide bomber in 1999.  The editor of the  New Yorker , David Remnick, noted that an
excerpt from Ondaatje’s new novel, “The Cat’s Table,” will be
appearing in “a certain magazine” in the next few weeks.  “The stories we heard tonight were moving -- depressing
and uplifting,” said the president of PEN American Center,
philosopher and Princeton University professor Kwame Anthony Appiah, as guests began to mingle for dessert, which included
smile-inducing treats like miniature strawberry ice cream cones.  Sir John Soane  It was natural at the gala for the  Sir John Soane Museum
Foundation  for guests to recall their visits to the museum,
which Soane established in his London home in 1833.  Classical architect Allan Greenberg, the event’s honoree,
said he first knocked on the museum’s door when he was 19. A
guard told him the museum was closed. The museum director let
the curious student in anyway and showed him around the house,
which Soane renovated to accommodate his antiquities,
architectural drawings and models.  “I was in awe of the light in the house, the way he
crammed skylights in the most unlikely places,” Greenberg said.  As for Soane’s prolific collecting habits, “he had so much
stuff, I’ve done the opposite.”  The event at 583 Park featured a photography exhibition of
Greenberg’s work: the Treaty Room at the U.S. State Department,
a humanities building at  Rice University , a personal library in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Drawings of the Sir John Soane Museum appeared on light
fixtures at the dinner tables. Sir John Soane’s own face was
brushed in gold on the chocolate desserts.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 