-- 
SEC Weighs Cutting Credit Ratings From Broker Capital Rules

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-27T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/sec-weighs-cutting-credit-ratings-from-broker-capital-rules.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission may seek comment on a proposal that would let broker-
dealers use internal assessments instead of outside ratings in
gauging credit risk for meeting net-capital requirements.  SEC commissioners are scheduled to vote today on the rule,
which would strip references from broker-dealer standards that
determine how much liquidity firms must maintain to cover their
obligations, according to an agency summary. The proposal is
part of a Dodd-Frank Act requirement to replace references to
ratings in federal regulations with an “appropriate” standard.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in July, sought
to ban references to credit ratings after lawmakers faulted
inflated grades from Moody’s Corp. and  Standard & Poor’s  for
fueling the housing bubble before the 2008 credit crisis.
Letting brokers use their own assessments could pose a different
type of risk, according to a Democratic commissioner.  “The proposed subjective standard will be much more
difficult to police than the current objective standard that
references credit ratings,” Commissioner Luis Aguilar said in
remarks prepared for delivery before today’s vote. “It does not
appear that we have been able to identify an appropriate
substitute for credit ratings,” said Aguilar, who raised
similar concerns about an earlier proposal to cut references
from rules for money-market funds.  The broker-dealer proposal, which would be released for
public comment if approved by the SEC’s five commissioners,
would revise provisions of the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
including instructions for deducting value from assets such as
commercial paper and certain stocks and bonds. It would also
take credit ratings out of Regulation M provisions that prohibit
market manipulation in security offerings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 