-- 
SEC Proposes Cutting Credit Ratings From Broker Capital Rules

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-27T17:18:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/sec-proposes-cutting-credit-ratings-from-broker-capital-rules.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is seeking comment on a rule that would let broker-
dealers use internal assessments instead of outside ratings in
gauging credit risk for meeting net  capital requirements .  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 today to propose a measure that
would strip references to credit ratings from standards that
determine how much liquidity broker-dealers must maintain to
cover their obligations. The proposal is part of a Dodd-Frank
Act requirement to replace ratings in federal regulations with
an “appropriate” standard for gauging risk.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in July, sought
to ban references to credit ratings after lawmakers faulted
inflated grades from firms such as  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  and McGraw-Hill
Cos.’  Standard & Poor’s  unit for fueling the housing bubble
before the 2008 credit crisis.  “Dodd-Frank has given us a mandate to change our rules so
that we no longer rely on ratings as a proxy for credit
standing,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in prepared remarks
before the vote. “We are seeking not the simplest alternative
but instead are trying to provide tailored responses that
reflect the underlying purpose of each rule, and we are
conscious of potential costs to market participants.”  Less-Risky Assets  Today’s proposal would revise provisions of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934  affecting how broker-dealers may reduce the
value deducted from less-risky assets such as commercial paper,
preferred stocks and nonconvertible debt when figuring their net
capital.  “Each firm with proprietary positions in these instruments
would need to look at a variety of factors, and they would need
to have and document procedures for doing so,” Schapiro said.  Letting brokers use their own assessments could pose a
different type of risk than that posed by credit ratings, SEC
Commissioner Luis Aguilar said in prepared remarks.  “The proposed subjective standard will be much more
difficult to police than the current objective standard that
references credit ratings,” Aguilar, a Democrat, said before
voting to release the measure for comment. “It does not appear
that we have been able to identify an appropriate substitute for
credit ratings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  