-- 
Serbian Opposition Demand Probe Into Telekom Srbija Sale

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-04-27T15:08:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/serbian-opposition-demand-probe-into-telekom-srbija-sale-process.html
Serbia’s biggest opposition party
demanded a criminal probe against Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic 
and others in connection with the government’s effort to sell
national phone company Telekom Srbija AD.  Serbian Progressive Party  lawmaker Dejan Djurdjevic filed
the motion to the public prosecutor’s office in Belgrade today,
also naming Economy Minister Nebojsa Ciric, former Finance
Minister Diana Dragutinovic and ex-Deputy Premier  Mladjan Dinkic , who were involved in the tender for 51 percent of the
company.  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , the sole bidder, has until May 3 to
improve its offer closer to Cvetkovic’s demand for 1.4 billion
euros ($2 billion) in cash.  “The whole tender lacks transparency and is fraught with
irregularities,” Djurdjevic told reporters. He accused
government officials of “abuse of office” for not outright
rejecting  Telekom Austria ’s offer of 950 million euros in cash
and 450 million euros in investments.  The Progressive Party is leading the ruling  Democratic
Party  of President  Boris Tadic , according to a recent poll. It
has held two rallies in as many months demanding early elections
in a push to come to power. The sale of state assets is part of
Serbia’s economic transition and broader efforts to eventually
join the European Union.  Disputed Value  Cvetkovic appeared in Parliament today, dismissing the
accusations and opposition claims that the government was
desperate for Telekom proceeds to curb the budget gap.  He also rejected claims the company was offered below its
value. The government “was even a bit unrealistic” expecting
as much as 1.4 billion euros for the stake, he said. “As you
can see, there was only one offer and even that one was
insufficient.”  Citigroup Inc. (C)  advisers have valued the entire company at
2.43 billion euros.  He acknowledged that the government, as Telekom’s majority
owner, has long relied on its earnings for some budget spending,
“but long-term, the profit should be reinvested in the
company” while the state should seek other sources of revenue.  Twenty percent of the company belongs to Greece’s Hellenic
Telecommunications Organizations AS.  The phone company tender has been handled by the  Finance
Ministry  rather than the  Privatization Agency  “which is clearly
against the law,” said lawyer Milorad Panjevic of allied
opposition group Serbian Strength Movement.  Favoring Austrians  Telekom Austria was favored in the process, while others
that initially registered for the tender --  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,
 France Telecom SA (FTE) , America Movil SAB,  Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE (ORTE)  through Weather Investments SpA,  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  and Turkcell
Iletisim Hizmetleri AS -- were misled to believe that the 1.4
billion euros was the minimum for the stake and made no offers,
Panjevic said.  The opposition activists also said it was not in the
state’s interest to sell the company, citing its consolidated
net income in 2010, which reached 17 billion dinars ($249
million) with subsidiaries in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Montenegro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at  jagomez@bloomberg 