-- 
Severe Weather Disrupts Flights as Tornadoes Threaten East

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-27T20:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/severe-u-s-weather-may-delay-air-traffic-raise-flood-threat-in-midwest.html
High winds and thunderstorms
delayed flights to  New York  and Atlanta as severe weather raked
the Southeast and the eastern U.S.  Planes bound for New York’s LaGuardia Airport and
Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International, the world’s busiest
airport, were being held until storms cleared, according to the
Federal Aviation Administration website. More than 500 flights
today were canceled, according to the FlightAware tracking
service.  Tornado watches, meaning the destructive storms may
develop, covered parts of eight states and include Buffalo, New
York, Baltimore and  Washington , according to the  National
Weather Service . Severe thunderstorms were also possible for
southern Ontario, including Toronto, according to Environment
Canada.  U.S. weather service radar showed rotation, a sign of
tornado formation, in spots across Mississippi, Alabama and
Tennessee.  “This system is very organized and confidence is high
regarding the potential for a major tornado outbreak this
afternoon and evening across the central Gulf Coast states and
 Tennessee  Valley extending northward into the southern Ohio
Valley,” according to a weather service bulletin.  Yesterday, thunderstorms, hail, high winds and tornadoes led
to air traffic delays of more than 90 minutes at airports in the
Midwest and East. A  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  jet slid off the
runway at  Chicago ’s Midway Airport in heavy rain without injury
to anyone aboard.  Golden Triangle  Storms in the so-called golden triangle, an area bounded by
 New York City , Chicago and Atlanta, are most likely to cause air
traffic delays and cancellations. About 70 percent of all flight
delays are caused by weather, according to the  National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration .  At least 678 flights throughout the U.S. were canceled
yesterday, according to  FlightAware  tracking data.  Tornadoes have been confirmed in the deaths of at least 43
people this month, according to the Storm Prediction Center in
Norman,  Oklahoma . The center has received 846 reports of the
killer storms since the start of the year. The incidents must be
investigated before they are confirmed.  Since 1950, the highest number of confirmed tornadoes to
occur in April was 267 in 1974, according to Heather Buchman, an
AccuWeather meteorologist.  Heading for Record  “Even though the number of confirmed tornadoes will
probably end up being quite smaller, this month is likely to
beat the record,” she said.  The storms have also dropped heavy rain onto saturated
ground, causing the Ohio and Mississippi rivers and their
tributaries to rise. The Ohio River at Cairo,  Illinois , is
expected to reach 60.5 feet this weekend, a foot above its
record, according to the  National Weather Service .  The  Mississippi  River at Cape Girardeau, Missouri, was at
43.89 feet as of 5 a.m. local time, or more than a foot above
what is considered major flood stage, according to the weather
service.  In Poplar Bluffs, Missouri, about 155 miles south of  St.
Louis , 1,000 residents were evacuated and 500 structures
threatened when levees on the Black River failed, according to
the weather service.  The Army Corps of Engineers is considering intentionally
flooding 130,000 acres of farmland in southern Missouri to take
pressure off the rivers and lower flood waters upstream. The
state’s attorney general, Chris Koster, and the Department of
Natural Resources filed suit yesterday in federal court seeking
to stop the move.  “There are 130,000 acres that will be underwater and of
course that will mean there won’t be any crop this year,” said
Blake Hurst, president of the  Missouri  Farm Bureau. “The
increases in food prices everyone is concerned about, this is a
large enough area to make a difference.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  