-- 
Skype Co-Founder Zennstrom Searches for First China Investment

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-27T23:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/skype-s-zennstrom-says-his-fund-plans-first-china-investments.html
Skype Technologies SA co-founder
Niklas Zennstrom said his $200 million venture capital firm is
in talks with companies in  China  to begin investing in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Atomico will “make a few investments here over time,”
Zennstrom said in an interview in Beijing yesterday. The London-
based fund will collaborate with local partners in China, he
said, without providing a timeframe.  Zennstrom, after giving up his management role at the
world’s biggest provider of international calls, has focused on
 Europe  and the U.S., where most of Atomico’s more than 40
investments are based. The Swedish entrepreneur said he’s
interested in investing in Chinese technology companies seeking
to expand overseas with original business ideas.  “I am encouraged by the spirit of entrepreneurship here,”
said Zennstrom, who is in Beijing to attend the Global Mobile
Internet conference. “A lot of people are working very hard to
be successful.”  Still, the surge in value of Chinese technology companies
has raised concerns for some investors. Kai-Fu Lee, the former
head of Google Inc.’s China operations, who now runs his own
venture capital fund, said this month that some of the nation’s
Internet stocks have “high valuation risks” that should make
investors cautious.  Zennstrom declined to comment on whether valuations for
Chinese technology companies are excessive.  Ebay Inc. (EBAY) , the world’s biggest online marketplace, bought
Skype in 2005 and two years later Zennstrom left as chief
executive officer. EBay sold most of its stake in the Internet
telephony company to investors led by  Silver Lake  for $2 billion
in November 2009 and retained a 30 percent holding.  Zennstrom, a member of Skype’s board, and co-founder Janus Friis took a 14 percent stake.  About half of Atomico’s investment portfolio are companies
in Europe, including Espoo, Finland-based Rovio Mobile Oy, maker
of the hit mobile-phone game “Angry Birds.” U.S. companies
make up more than 30 percent, Zennstrom said.  -- Mark Lee . Editors: Vipin V. Nair, Anand Krishnamoorthy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  