-- 
Societe Generale May Reopen Ivory Coast Branches Tomorrow

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-04-27T12:43:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/societe-generale-working-to-open-ivory-coast-branches-tomorrow.html
Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,  France ’s
second-largest bank by market value, said it was working to
reopen its branches in  Ivory Coast  tomorrow.  Societe Generale is working with local authorities and
Ivory Coast’s central bank, spokeswoman  Laura Schalk  said today
by e-mail from Paris, where the company is based. It has 47
branches in the country serving 230,000 clients, according to a
statement.  The bank closed its operations in Ivory Coast, the world’s
biggest cocoa producer, on Feb. 17 as a political standoff
resulted in armed conflict.  Laurent Gbagbo , who refused to cede
the presidency to Alassane Ouattara after a disputed Nov. 28
election, was arrested this month. Standard Chartered Plc,
Citigroup Inc. and BNP Paribas SA also closed their local units.  “The banking sector needs to be up on its feet for the
cocoa market to function,” Keith Flury, an analyst at Rabobank
International in  London , said in an e-mail today. “This will
help middlemen buy beans and facilitate the movement of product
from farms to the ports.”  A revival of the nation’s banking system is a “key
element” for resuming cocoa exports, commodity trader Cargill
Inc. said this month.  About 8,000 metric tons of cocoa were loaded on the A.P.
Moller-Maersk A/S vessel Norfolk, operated by both Maersk and
Belgium shipper Safmarine, Kenni Simon Skotte, general manager
of Europe-West Africa Trade for Maersk, said today by e-mail.
The ship arrived in Abidjan on April 20, he added.  Safmarine’s shipment was composed of beans booked prior to
an export ban imposed in January, meaning they were already in
containers at the port, Didier Willemse, head of commodity
sales, said in a phone interview from the Belgian port of
Antwerp on April 21.  A ban on cocoa exports imposed by Ouattara in a bid to cut
off funds for Gbagbo was lifted earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  