-- 
Sokol Violated Berkshire Insider-Trading Rules, Audit Finds

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-04-27T22:16:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/sokol-misled-buffett-on-lubrizol-holding-berkshire-audit-committee-finds.html
David Sokol  violated  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s insider-trading rules and misled the company
about his personal stake in  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ) , which he recommended
as a takeover target to Chairman  Warren Buffett , the firm said.  Berkshire will cooperate with any government investigations
related to Sokol’s Lubrizol transactions and weigh suing the
former manager to recover his trading profits, according to a
report from Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s  audit committee .  Sokol’s purchase of about $10 million in Lubrizol stock
while facilitating Buffett’s deal to buy the lubricant maker
“violated company policies, including Berkshire Hathaway’s Code
of Business Conduct and Ethics and its insider-trading policies
and procedures,” according to the  report .  Buffett, 80, is facing questions about his oversight of
managers and criticism for not condemning the  stock trading  that
preceded Sokol’s resignation from Berkshire. Buffett had said
March 30 in announcing Sokol’s departure that he didn’t believe
the trades were unlawful.  “They’re throwing Sokol under the bus,” said Stephen
Bainbridge, a professor at the UCLA School of Law who has
written and taught about corporate governance.  Sokol, 54, told Buffett in January he had a stake in
Lubrizol, which the billionaire chairman took to mean that Sokol
had been following the company as a shareholder and then deemed
it a takeover candidate, the audit committee found. Buffett
didn’t realize until March 14, when the $9 billion deal was
announced, that investment bankers at Citigroup Inc. had brought
Wickliffe, Ohio-based Lubrizol to Sokol’s attention as a
potential target, according to the report.  ‘Misleadingly Incomplete’  Sokol’s “misleadingly incomplete disclosures to Berkshire
Hathaway senior management concerning those purchases violated
the duty of candor he owed the company,” according to the
report.  Buffett learned of Citigroup’s role introducing Sokol to
Lubrizol only when a representative from the bank called to
congratulate him on the deal, according to the report.
Sokol told CNBC last month that he did nothing wrong. Attempts
to reach Sokol for comment weren’t immediately successful.  ‘Gloves are Off’  “The gloves are off,” said  Michael Yoshikami , chief
investment strategist at Berkshire shareholder YCMNet Advisors.
Buffett’s “response was benevolent, and now the audit committee
is coming back and saying, ‘You might be benevolent but, as a
protector of the values of the firm, we don’t think benevolence
is appropriate.’”  Sokol joined Berkshire in 2000 when he sold MidAmerican
Energy Holdings Co., which he led, to Buffett for about $9
billion. Under Berkshire, Sokol retained a minority equity stake
in MidAmerican and expanded the unit by buying a natural gas
pipeline and power producers in California and the U.K.  Buffett had sent Sokol to  China  to scout an investment in
carmaker BYD Co. and tasked the executive with the turnaround of
NetJets Inc., Berkshire’s luxury-flight unit. Buffett biographer
Andrew Kilpatrick had said Sokol was the most likely candidate
to replace the billionaire as chief executive officer.  Sokol told Buffett before the March 30 statement that he
hadn’t hoped to become CEO, according to the report. Sokol made
the statement when given an opportunity to review a draft of
Buffett’s comments for accuracy.  Statement Revised  The draft had a passage,  which Buffett excluded from the
eventual report, “that implied that Mr. Sokol had resigned
because he must have known the Lubrizol trades would likely hurt
his chances of being Mr. Buffett’s successor,” according to the
report.  Buffett said March 14 he would pay $135 a share for
Lubrizol, compared with the closing price of $105.44 on the New
York Stock Exchange in the last trading day before the
announcement. Sokol’s investment may have given him a profit of
about $3 million, according to Buffett’s disclosure and data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  