-- 
Sony Unit Sued by PlayStation Customer Over Security Breach and Data Theft

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-04-27T20:14:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/sony-unit-sued-by-playstation-customer-over-security-breach-and-data-theft.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ’s network entertainment
unit was sued by a  PlayStation  customer claiming it failed to
protect users’ personal information and credit-card data that
the company says may have been stolen by a hacker.  Sony delayed disclosing the security breach to PlayStation
online games customers, who couldn’t access the service as a
result of the problems, according to a complaint filed today in
federal court in San Francisco.  “Consumers and merchants have been exposed to what is one
of the largest compromise of  Internet security  and the greatest
potential for credit-card fraud to ever occur in United States
history,” the customer said in the  complaint .  Sony warned its 77 million PlayStation Network and  Qriocity 
online service customers that their credit-card data, billing
addresses and other personal information might have been stolen.
The thief obtained user-provided names, e-mail addresses, birth
dates, log-in information and purchase histories, Sony said on
its PlayStation  blog  page.  The network provides access to online games, movies and
television shows. It was attacked from April 17 to April 19 and
both services were shut down April 20, Sony said.  It took several days to conduct forensic analysis, and
experts needed until April 25 to understand the scope of the
breach, the company said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The plaintiff, Kristopher Johns, of Birmingham,  Alabama ,
seeks to represent all affected users in a class-action suit.  Reimbursement, Refunds  He asked for reimbursement for losses from credit-card  data
theft , payment for credit monitoring for all plaintiffs, refunds
for defective services and PlayStations and unspecified punitive
damages.  Patrick Seybold, a Sony spokesman, didn’t immediately reply
to a voice-mail message seeking comment.  Sony said yesterday that it notified consumers as quickly
as it could.  “It was necessary to conduct several days of forensic
analysis, and it took our experts until yesterday to understand
the scope of the breach,” the company said by e-mail, referring
to April 25. “We then shared that information with our
consumers and announced it publicly.”  The case is Johns v. Sony Computer Entertainment America
LLC, 11-02063, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter about this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco 
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 