-- 
Spain Calls Draghi ‘Excellent’ Choice for ECB President, Isolating Merkel

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-04-28T14:44:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/spain-calls-draghi-excellent-choice-for-ecb-isolating-merkel.html
Spain  and Luxembourg indicated
their support for  Mario Draghi  as the next European Central Bank
president, leaving Germany as the only one of the four biggest
euro countries that has yet to back the Bank of Italy governor.  “Spain’s position is that we think he is an excellent
candidate,” Spanish Finance Minister Elena Salgado told
reporters late yesterday in Madrid.  The momentum built for Draghi today, with comments by
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who also heads
the group of euro-area finance ministers. The praise came after
French President Nicolas Sarkozy’s endorsement and backing from
Portugal and Belgium.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who oversees the biggest
European economy, hasn’t indicated a preference and her
spokesman yesterday asserted her right to block any successor to
Jean-Claude Trichet, as  Europe ’s top monetary-policy official.  “There will be no appointment to the ECB presidency
without German approval,” said Steffen Seibert, a spokesman for
Merkel. Under European Union voting rules,  Germany  wouldn’t be
able to veto Draghi, 63. It would need anywhere from one to five
other countries to amass enough votes to block a candidate.  Seibert today said the German position was unchanged and an
announcement would be made in due course. Merkel was on vacation
last week and has no public appointments this week.  While Seibert said Germany would cooperate with  France  in
the appointment, Merkel faces the choice of following or
rankling her main European partners. Germany, France, Italy and
Spain contribute about two-thirds of the 17-nation euro economy.  German Politics  The pick may become tied up in German opposition to
bailouts. With Portugal’s rescue set to push the cost of aid to
euro states past 250 billion euros ($366 billion), Merkel may
face domestic criticism for choosing a southern European from a
country with a legacy of inflation and debt.  Draghi emerged as the front-runner after Germany’s Axel Weber withdrew from the race in February. German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  sees Draghi as likeliest to be
appointed as the ECB’s next president, people close to him say.
Trichet’s non-renewable eight-year term ends on Oct. 31.  Spokesmen for euro-region governments including Austria,
Cyprus,  Greece , Malta and the Netherlands have declined to
comment on ECB succession this week.  In Slovakia, “we haven’t discussed it at a government
level yet,” Finance Minister Ivan Miklos told journalists today
in the capital, Bratislava. “My personal opinion is that he is
a respectable candidate. Personally, I wouldn’t have any problem
with his nomination.”  Draghi’s Background  Draghi, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology-trained
economist, has worked at the  World Bank  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  He is also chairman of the Financial Stability Board, which
was established by the Group of 20 nations in 2009 to oversee
development of standards to strengthen global regulation.  Other candidates include Yves Mersch of Luxembourg, Erkki Liikanen of Finland and Nout Wellink of the Netherlands. Klaus Regling, a German who runs the bailout facility, has never been
a central banker.  Even with Mersch in the race, Juncker tilted toward Draghi.  “As head of the euro group I have 1,000 reasons to remain
quiet but I see no difference between what (Sarkozy) said and
what I think,” Juncker told reporters.  Euro-area leaders may make their choice at a June summit
and nominations will probably be formally made next month.  “The period for candidacies hasn’t opened yet,” Salgado
said when asked about Draghi. “And when we know who the
candidates are we will be able to give an opinion, but of course
we think he is a person of great worth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  