-- 
Spain Has Set Itself Apart From Portuguese, Greek Bond Markets, Rehn Says

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-04-27T14:07:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/spain-has-set-itself-apart-from-portuguese-greek-bond-markets-rehn-says.html
Spain ’s bonds show the euro area’s
fourth-largest economy has managed to set itself apart from the
bloc’s most indebted countries, European Union Commissioner for
Economic and Monetary Affairs Olli Rehn said.  “Spain didn’t fall prey to the markets, its yields didn’t
rise even after  Portugal  sought aid from the European Union,”
he said today in a speech at the University of Helsinki. “Spain
didn’t suffer markedly when public discussion started up on
Greek loan restructuring. What’s been decisive for Spain are the
measures it has taken to stabilize its finances and reorganize
its banking sector, which is in part quite weak.”  Yields on debt from  Greece , Ireland and Portugal reached
records yesterday after Lars Feld, an adviser to German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , said Greece can’t avoid restructuring
debt. Data revealed yesterday that Greece’s deficit last year
was wider than targeted, remaining in double digits as it and
other European nations struggle with their fiscal health
following the global financial crisis.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Spanish
government debt over German bunds narrowed to 223 basis points,
or 2.23 percentage points, today, from 226 yesterday. It was 179
on April 6, when Portugal turned to the EU for aid. Portuguese
spreads widened to 638 today from 500 the day it sought aid.  ‘Absolutely True’  Greece’s shortfall was 10.5 percent of gross domestic
product in 2010, bigger than a 9.4 percent estimate made by the
Greek government in February, EU data showed yesterday. Spain
narrowed its deficit to 9.2 percent from 11.1 percent, the same
data showed.  Greece’s wider deficit came in part as  tax revenue  was
smaller than expected and there’s no plan to allow
restructuring, Rehn said. The latest deficit figure is “high,
but on the other hand it is also absolutely true,” he said.
“We now know the situation in Greek public finances.”  Rhen spoke in his native Finland, where an April 17
election saw an anti-bailout party become the third-biggest and
a likely partner in a coalition between Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen’s National Coalition and the  Social Democrats , which
also voted against bailing out Greece and Ireland.  Finland’s election result contributed to a 1.4 percent
decline in the euro against the dollar on April 18, amid concern
that the new government may obstruct  Europe ’s bailout mechanism.  No ‘Plan B’  “There is no ‘Plan B’ in the works,” if Finland rejects a
Portuguese bailout plan, Rehn said. “European Financial
Stability Facility can only be used if there is a unanimous
decision, which means if Finland is against it, there will be no
decision.”  Still, the European Commission is “always ready to support
individual member states in finding constructive solutions, also
in this case,” he said. “The decision of Portugal’s program
contents lies in the end with the EU member states, so it’s
important that Finland, after it’s decided on its stance,
negotiates with other EU member countries.”  Katainen has said he’ll only work with parties that support
the bloc’s rescue tools. “ Finland  has always been a responsible
European Union country,” he said on April 18. “I’m convinced
the new government, whoever is in it, will want to continue this
policy.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  