-- 
Spain’s Local Elections May Expose Wider Deficits in Risk for Bond Markets

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 
2011-04-28T08:42:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/spain-crisis-exemption-poses-renewed-test-for-salgado-as-local-votes-loom.html
Spanish elections next month may
expose wider-than-reported regional deficits as local 
governments take power, risking higher bond yields and testing
the country's ability to withstand  Europe 's debt crisis.  Finance Minister Elena Salgado, who is spearheading the
nation’s efforts to stave off turmoil, agreed to seven deficit-
cutting plans with local finance chiefs late yesterday and left
six pending until after May 22 elections for 13 regions and
8,000 municipalities. Catalonia, Spain’s largest region,
revealed a budget shortfall 60 percent wider than previously
acknowledged after its government won an election in November.  “There is no reason to think Catalonia is a special
case,” said Fernando Fernandez, a former International Monetary
Fund economist who teaches at Madrid’s IE business school.
“I’ve no doubt the same thing is going to happen, even in
regions that don’t change party.”  Salgado said yesterday she’s “not worried at all” that
 Spain ’s efforts to stave off the crisis could be threatened by
regions whose debt burden together with that of municipalities
swelled to 14 percent of gross domestic product last year. While
regional governments have regained access to capital markets
shut to them last year, investors are demanding yields similar
to those paid by  Portugal  before it sought European aid.  Bond Prices  Bond prices show Spain has set itself apart from the euro
region’s most indebted economies, European Union Commissioner
for Economic and Monetary Affairs Olli Rehn said yesterday. The
extra yield on Spanish debt compared with German equivalents has
narrowed 37 basis points since the start of the year, and traded
at 212 basis points today. The spread touched a three-month high
on April 19 on concerns a Greek default would fuel contagion
through Europe’s periphery.  Salgado yesterday agreed with regional finance chiefs to
tighten budget targets. They will aim for a combined deficit of
1 percent of GDP in 2014, down from 1.3 percent this year and
next and 1.1 percent in 2013.  “The autonomous regions are on the path toward bringing
their deficits into line with what we have agreed,” she told
reporters. “I’m not worried at all.”  Spain’s 17 semiautonomous regions, which spend 60 percent
of budgets on health and education and employ half of all public
workers, are struggling to plug shortfalls after a collapse in
revenue linked to real estate. During the property boom, regions
raised health spending by at least 8 percent a year, according
to Fitch Ratings analyst Guilhem Costes.  Municipal Shortfall  Town hall revenues are also suffering. Their construction-
related income such as building permits may be 16 billion euros
($23 billion) for 2010, less than half the total at the height
of the property boom in 2007, said Jose Antonio Perez, a
professor at Malaga’s Instituto de Practica Empresarial.  That has prompted late payments for some suppliers.
Aranjuez, a town outside  Madrid , owes gardening company JJ
Villagran 116,000 euros in unpaid bills, owner Jose Juan
Villagran, 41, said in a telephone interview. After a protest in
the town square, the mayor agreed to pay him, Villagran and a
town spokesman said. The Platform Against Late Payment, a
pressure group, estimates municipalities owe 33 billion euros in
unpaid bills.  “All of this will come to the surface after elections,”
said Fernandez, a former chief economist at Banco Santander SA.  In Catalonia, the previous government said on Nov. 24, four
days before that region’s elections, that it would meet the
shortfall target of 2.4 percent of GDP, a number the new
government revised to 3.9 percent after taking office in
December. The regional government says it can’t meet this year’s
1.3 percent target and won’t increase spending cuts beyond the
10 percent already planned.  Spending Cuts  Authorities facing elections this year may also postpone
spending cuts, said Angel de la Fuente, an economist at the
National Research Council’s Institute of Economic Analysis. That
may undermine their ability to raise funds just as regions
including Valencia and Catalonia regain access to debt markets
after being locked out last year.  Spain’s 17 regions have a total 115 billion euros in debt,
with regional public companies owing another 17 billion euros,
according to Bank of Spain data. Local administrations owe 35
billion euros.  “If governments delay consolidations because of elections,
that means more negative news,” said Amey Dyckmans, a sub-
sovereign analyst at Unicredit SpA in Munich. “That’s obviously
not a good sign for capital markets.”  De la Fuente said it would be a “suicidal” for
governments to allow deficits to swell during the election
campaign as investors grow concerned about euro-region
governments’ ability pay debts.  Restoring Confidence  In an attempt to restore confidence, Zapatero’s government
forced regions to publish deficit data every quarter and stopped
indebted town halls from borrowing. The central government has
to approve regions’ debt issuance, giving it indirect control of
budgets.  That didn’t stop the government saying as late as Nov. 24
that Catalonia could issue new debt as the region would meet its
budget goal.  “Catalonia simply did not stick to the plan and that is a
problem,” said Lorenzo Pareja, a ratings analyst at  Standard &
Poor’s . “The other regions could imitate the case. It’s hard to
predict.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  