-- 
Starbucks Wins Ruling on Disclosing Job Applicants With Marijuana Records

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-04-28T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/starbucks-need-not-find-job-seekers-with-marijuana-convictions.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  won a court  ruling 
that it doesn’t have to disclose the identities of potential
plaintiffs in a lawsuit filed originally by three job seekers
claiming the company illegally required applicants to disclose
marijuana convictions.  A California appeals court overturned a lower-court ruling
that Starbucks, the world’s largest coffee shop operator, must
disclose the identities of former job applicants who might be
covered by the plaintiffs’ lawsuit.  Three plaintiffs sued in 2005 seeking class-action, or
group, status and as much as $26 million in damages over claims
the company violated a California law barring employers from
asking prospective hires about convictions for minor marijuana
offenses that are more than two years old.  After the appeals court said in 2008 that the three had no
basis to sue because they didn’t have marijuana convictions
themselves, a lower-court judge ordered Starbucks to review its
job applications for possible candidates to lead the lawsuit.
Starbucks was ordered to randomly sort through about 135,000 job
applications until it found 25 candidates, who were then to be
told in a letter that they had a right to opt out of the suit.  The appeals court panel in  Santa Ana  reversed that order on
April 25, saying that requiring the Seattle-based company to
disclose the applicants’ identities “ironically violates” the
legislation meant to protect them from being stigmatized.  Applicants ‘Outed’  “One can only imagine the potential consternation in a
household where a Starbucks applicant with a marijuana-tinged
past is ‘outed’ to a spouse, child, or roommate who opens the
letter and reads about a lawsuit involving job applicants with
prior marijuana convictions,” the three-judge panel said.  Mike Arias, the lawyer who filed the suit, said the appeals
court incorrectly assumed that an opt-out letter would have to
state the individuals were contacted because they had a
marijuana conviction. Arias said yesterday he may take the case
to the California Supreme Court.  “We are pleased with the court’s ruling setting aside
further discovery in this matter and paving the way for
dismissal of the lawsuit,” Lily Gluzberg, a spokeswoman for
Starbucks, said in an e-mailed statement.  The appellate panel said the law forbidding employers from
inquiring about marijuana convictions was enacted in the mid-
1970s during the first administration of Governor  Jerry Brown , a
Democrat who was again elected governor last year.  The case is Starbucks v. Orange County Superior Court,
G04350, California Court of Appeals, Fourth Appellate District,
Division Three (Santa Ana.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  