-- 
Stern, Silvia Say Fed Sticking With View of Moderate Recovery

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-04-27T18:15:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/stern-silvia-say-fed-sticking-with-view-of-moderate-recovery.html
Gary Stern, former president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis , and  John Silvia , chief
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC , said the central bank
is sticking with the view that a moderate recovery is under way
and a recent rise in inflation is temporary. They spoke after
Fed officials met in Washington today.  Former Fed economist David Milton Jones;  Ward McCarthy ,
chief financial economist at Jefferies & Co.; and  Julia Coronado , chief economist  North America  at  BNP Paribas (BNP) , also
commented on the statement.  Stern on the Fed’s statement:  “The Fed’s view of the world hasn’t changed very much.”  “They continue to emphasize the transitory nature of
inflation” and “continue to talk about the economy improving
at a moderate pace.”  “I would expect that the summary that I just gave will be
where the chairman will put the emphasis as well” in his press
conference, scheduled to begin at 2:15 p.m. in  Washington .
“It’s steady as it goes.”  Stern on the press conference:  “Not only does he want to get it right for the public and
communicate effectively to the public, but of course he’ll be
watched very carefully by his colleagues both in the Fed and
central banks around the world. So there’s a lot of pressure. On
the other hand, he’s been in the position now five-plus years
and the issues are very, very familiar to him. So I have every
confidence this will go well.”  Silvia on policy:  “They will wrap up QE2 and move on hold for some time,
without shrinking the balance sheet, to see how the economy
reacts to that.”  “They are sticking with the idea that the recovery is
proceeding at a moderate pace. I don’t think the economic
outlook has changed too much.”  “They are sticking with the point of view that food and
energy price increases are transitory and will work their way
out of the system. The challenge is inflation is rising and food
and energy prices will feed into other parts of the  consumer
price index , such as transportation services.”  Jones on the Fed’s pledge to keep the benchmark U.S. interest-
rate target low for an “extended period”:  “I’m guessing that maybe as early as the June meeting,
they’re going to have to give up on that language: making room
at some point for an exit strategy.”  “The Fed chairman is very much in charge of this. I would
classify him as dovish, being supported by people like Vice
Chair  Janet Yellen ” and New York Fed President William C. Dudley. “It’s clear they still have the initiative, those who
argue that the Fed should keep things on a steady on course here
and there’s no need to reason to change policy immediately,
other than to let QE2 end on schedule.”  Jones on the press conference:  “It’s an important moment.”  “The Fed may have lifted expectations a little bit high
for this press conference. It’s going to be very difficult to
not only achieve transparency, but clarity is the key: how much
insight can we get into what we expect the Fed to do? That’s
difficult at this time when there’s so much uncertainty about
the outlook for  oil prices  and the economy.”  McCarthy on the statement:  “There’s not a whole lot different here. There was more of
an explicit acknowledgment of the rise in commodity prices, but
they still describe it as expecting it to be transitory and
inflation expectations are stable. That’s the key thing.”  “When they talk about the balance sheet, they’re making it
clear that once the $600 billion” asset-purchase program “has
been completed, the size and composition of the balance sheet is
going to be the primary tool.”  The Fed is “being pushed and pulled in different
directions,” with the rise in commodity prices, and “it looks
like the Japan disaster will take something out of growth.”  Coronado on policy:  “We need a couple of years of what they would consider
solidly above-trend growth before we’ve really meaningfully
eaten away at the slack. That is not say to they can’t take baby
steps toward normalizing policy to some extent between now and
then. But they are in no hurry. The  U.S. economy  isn’t anywhere
close to overheating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  