-- 
Sudanese President al-Bashir Fires Security Adviser Salah Gosh, SUNA Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-04-27T09:30:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/sudanese-president-al-bashir-fires-security-adviser-salah-gosh-suna-says.html
Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir
fired his security adviser and former head of intelligence,
Salah Gosh, the state-run  SUNA  news agency reported late
yesterday, without giving a reason for the dismissal.  Gosh’s removal reflects widening divisions in the ruling
 National Congress Party  over oil-rich  Southern Sudan ’s
independence in July, the  International Criminal Court ’s
indictment of al-Bashir for  war crimes  in Darfur and whether to
engage with opposition parties, said Fouad Hikmat, Brussels-
based  International Crisis Group ’s special adviser on Sudan.  While Gosh, supported by Vice President Ali Osman Taha,
thinks the NCP must seek cooperation from opposition parties to
deal with the current challenges, presidential aide Nafie Ali Nafie and his supporters believe there is no need to, Hikmat
said today by phone from Nairobi,  Kenya ’s capital.  “From now until July, or the end of the year, is a
critical time for the NCP: to be or not to be,” he said. “The
rift is very clear between Nafie and Ali Osman.”  Gosh was the head of intelligence when it cooperated with
the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency over terrorism issues after
al-Bashir dismissed Islamist leader Hassan al-Turabi as
parliamentary speaker in 2000 for backing legislation to curb
presidential powers.  U.S. Cooperation  “The U.S. and  Sudan  entered into a bilateral dialogue on
counterterrorism in May 2000,” the State Department said on its
 website . “Sudan has provided concrete cooperation against
international terrorism since the September 11, 2001, terrorist
strikes on  New York  and  Washington .”  Sudan has been subject to U.S. economic sanctions since
1997, and categorized by the U.S. as a state sponsor of
terrorism since 1993.  The divisions within the NCP, sparked by the ICC indictment
of al-Bashir in 2009, have deepened since Southern Sudanese
voted in January to secede from  Africa ’s biggest country.  The referendum was the culmination of a 2005  peace
agreement  that ended a civil war lasting almost 50 years, except
for a cease-fire from 1972 to 1983, between the Muslim north and
the south, where Christianity and traditional religions
dominate. About 2 million people died in the second phase of the
conflict.  Al-Bashir, who came to power in a 1989 coup, will not run
for another presidential term in 2015, his party said in
February. No one was named from the party as a possible nominee.
He won Sudan’s first multiparty election in 24 years in April
last year, taking 68 percent of the vote. Observers from the
Atlanta-based  Carter Center  and the European Union said the
elections failed to meet international standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 