-- 
Sugar Production in Thailand to Reach Record on Yield, Boosting Shipments

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-04-27T06:55:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/sugar-production-in-thailand-to-reach-record-on-yield-boosting-shipments.html
Sugar output in  Thailand , the
biggest exporter after Brazil, will exceed a forecast to reach a
record after rainfall increased yields, boosting shipments to an
all-time high, according to the  Office of the Cane & Sugar Board .  Production may climb to 9.47 million metric tons in the
year started Nov. 28 and exports will surge to 6.67 million tons,
Secretary-General Prasert Tapaneeyangkul said in a phone
interview today. That compares with forecasts of 9.11 million
tons of output and 6.3 million tons of exports he made on April
20. Last year production totaled 6.93 million tons and shipments
were 4.63 million tons.  Increased supplies from Thailand may pressure global prices
that tumbled 36 percent since reaching a three-decade high in
February as output climbs in  Brazil  and  India , the world’s
biggest producers. Sugar is the worst performer on the Standard
& Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities this year, helping
cool global food prices that the United Nations estimates fell
in March from a record.  “The market didn’t expect such a strong output from
Thailand and this will be bearish for sugar prices,”  Abah Ofon ,
a commodities analyst at Standard Chartered Plc., said by phone
from  Singapore .  Raw sugar for July delivery dropped 0.7 percent to 23.24
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  yesterday. The
most-active contract climbed to 36.08 cents a pound on Feb. 2,
the highest level since 1980.  ‘Historical High’  Sugar production totaled 9.1 million tons between Nov. 28
and April 25 and cane output was 88.4 million tons, according to
data from the  website  of the Office of the Cane & Sugar Board.
Yield is estimated at 102.9 kilograms per ton of cane, more than
the 101 kilograms a year ago, Prasert said.  “It will be a historical high level, as unseasonal rains
from La Nina improved yields and high prices attracted farmers
to increase plantings,” Prasert said. Full-year cane production
may surge to 92 million tons compared with 88 million tons
estimated last week, he said.  Output may reach as much as 9.8 million tons as Thailand is
set to crush at least 95 million tons of cane, according to
Sucden, the trading arm of Sucres et Denrees SA.  Nine out of 46 sugar mills in Thailand have ended cane
crushing and the remainder may halt processing in May, said
Prasert. The crushing season last year was over in April.  “I doubt whether we will see a big increase from now on as
rainfall across plantations in northeastern provinces has
disrupted the harvest,” Prasert said. “It is too wet for
trucks to enter plantation areas and many millers are reluctant
to continue crushing.”  La Nina brought unseasonal rain from the start of January,
improving soil moisture and boosting cane output, according to
the Office of Cane and Sugar Board. Rains were spread across the
central, north and northeastern provinces, which account for 95
percent of Thailand’s total cane output, according to the
nation’s weather bureau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  