-- 
Tsunami Towns Face ‘Empty Monument’ Risk as Japan Rebuilds

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-04-28T03:35:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/tsunami-towns-face-empty-monument-risk-as-japan-rebuilds.html
Mayor Futoshi Toba lost his wife
in the March 11 tsunami that pulverized his city of
Rikuzentakata and left two thirds of its residents homeless. He
says it’s too early to move on and rebuild.  “So many families are still looking for missing bodies
and they would feel like they’re abandoning their loved ones,”
Toba, 46, said in an interview outside the city’s makeshift
offices. “It’s not a big deal to delay reconstruction for a
couple of months, as we are talking about something that will
take 10 to 20 years.”  About 13 kilometers (8 miles) down the coast is Kesennuma,
where shops are selling fresh food, schools have opened and
city leaders are making plans to partially re-open a damaged
fish market. While Rikuzentakata requires rebuilding almost
from scratch, officials in  Kesennuma  say their focus is on
restoring factories and jobs before residents leave for good.  The two cities, separated by a peninsula and known for
their ocean views and seafood, underscore the challenges facing
the government as it plans to spend 25 trillion yen ($306
billion) to rebuild areas that sustained damage and loss of
life on different scales. They also highlight a trend that
existed long before the March 11 disaster: an aging and
shrinking population which has sapped economic growth in rural
regions for decades.  ‘Microcosm’  “The problems faced by the people in those disaster-
ravaged areas are a microcosm of the problems being faced by
all of Japan,” Jun Iio, a senior member of  Japan ’s
Reconstruction Design Council, said this week. “We have a
tremendous challenge to reconstruct in a way that areas can
thrive in spite of the demographic challenges.”  The populations of Rikuzentakata and Kesennuma are typical
of rural Japan. People older than 65 made up more than 30
percent of the residents of both cities. In Kesennuma, once
Japan’s largest port for bonito and swordfish catches, the
number of visiting vessels fell 90 percent over the last two
decades.  The tsunami triggered by a magnitude-9 earthquake, the
largest recorded in Japan, sent waves as high as 24 meters (78
feet) along the eastern coast. Cities and towns including
Rikuzentakata in Iwate prefecture were among the worst affected
because their buildings were sandwiched between the ocean and
mountains.  ‘Basic Services’  “The situation in Kesennuma is different from cities like
Rikuzentakata because damage was limited to near the water, so
people in the city still have basic services,” said Itsunori Onodera, who represents the city in parliament. “The problem
is businesses and jobs, because they are all gone.”  The government estimates reconstruction may take ten years
and cost 25 trillion yen. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  proposed an
initial 4-trillion yen extra budget to build 100,000 temporary
homes and other infrastructure.  Rebuilding the Tohoku region goes beyond simple economics,
according to the Design Council’s Iio. Reconstruction will
provide a model for the rest of Japan as it seeks to reverse a
long-term trend of centralizing its economy in Tokyo.  “This disaster has brought home the fact that it’s unsafe
for a country to centralize too much,” he said. “We must have
regions that can survive and thrive autonomously.”  The government doesn’t have a recent model to use for
rebuilding, Iio said. The 1995 Kobe earthquake caused damage
over a smaller area and to mostly urban areas.  It also didn’t cause a tsunami, which altered the impact
from loss of life. For every one of the 6,434 people dead or
missing after the Kobe earthquake there were more than six
injured, government data  shows . This time, the numbers were
reversed: 25,920 dead or missing and 5,314 injured.  ‘Monuments’  “Kobe was a large city and jobs were created when houses
and shops were built again,” Onodera said. “People won’t be
able to live here without industry even if the country rebuilds
amazing, unique, futuristic towns. The cities will be empty
monuments without inhabitants,” he said.  Reviving the fishery industry is vital for both cities,
officials said. The tsunami did about ten times more damage --
106.6 billion yen -- to fishing infrastructure including boats,
harbors and markets than to agriculture and forestry combined
in Iwate prefecture, according to government data.  Fisheries and dependent industries including packaging and
processing accounted for 85 percent of the jobs in Kesennuma.
Families making a living from farming oysters generated up to
40 million yen in sales a year that fed into the local economy
in Rikuzentakata, Mayor Toba said.  “If they don’t exist, there won’t be jobs at processing
factories which created 300 to 400 jobs per plant,” he said.  Leaving  People may need to leave the towns in the short term, said
Tomiya Terui, chief of  Iwate Prefecture ’s office of city
planning. “We need to send a message that we will revive
cities in a way that they can come back again,” he said.  Even in Kesennuma, where officials are confident of
rebuilding, residents may leave, said Kiyoshi Igari, 65.  “It’s 50:50 whether people stay and rebuild,” he said,
“People love the city and it’s the place they were born, but
they don’t have much money, so rebuilding is going to be an
issue of insurance and government help.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net . 