-- 
Super-Injunctions Let U.K. Actors, Athletes Keep Sex Out of the Newspapers

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-04-27T12:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/super-injunctions-let-u-k-actors-athletes-keep-sex-out-of-the-newspapers.html
A “well-known sportsman,” a
“world-famous person” and even a TV news reporter are among a
growing number of celebrities who have won  London  court orders
barring newspapers from printing stories about their sex lives.  So-called super-injunctions bar U.K. newspapers from
writing about the extramarital affairs or identifying the
celebrities involved. One lawmaker estimated that as many as 30
of the orders have been issued, and at least four have been
granted this month.  “Identities are being too routinely suppressed,” David
Hooper, a media lawyer at Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP in
London, said in an interview. “There isn’t really much of a
balancing exercise.”  The cases have been on the rise since Formula One President
Max Mosley won a ruling in 2008 that his  privacy rights  had been
violated by a story by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World about a
Nazi-themed sex party. The flurry of rulings has attracted
opposition from Prime Minister  David Cameron , who said
Parliament, and not the courts, should develop the nation’s
privacy law.  “What’s happening here is that the judges are using the
European Convention on Human Rights to deliver a sort of privacy
law without Parliament,” he told reporters in Luton,  England ,
last week. “I think that we do need to have a proper sit back
and think: is this right, is this the right thing to happen?”  Sportsman, Businessman  Thirty football players and actors have won injunctions
recently, Louise Bagshawe, a Conservative member of Parliament,
said last week on the British Broadcasting Corp.  While the injunctions generally limit descriptions of the
celebrities to a “sportsman” or a “businessman,” their
identities sometimes still come out. Last month, a lawmaker used
parliamentary privilege to disclose that former  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  Chief Executive Officer  Fred Goodwin  had won
an order that prevented him from being called a “banker.”  A London judge lifted an injunction last year that had
stopped newspapers from writing about the relationship between
England soccer player  John Terry  and a teammate’s ex-girlfriend.  Not everyone is proud that they sought court intervention
to prevent disclosures of their peccadilloes. Andrew Marr, who
hosts a Sunday morning news show on the  BBC , told the Daily Mail
that he was “embarrassed” he obtained an injunction to keep a
newspaper from doing a story about his affair with a colleague.  Marr declined to comment further, BBC News spokeswoman
Helen Deller said by phone. He told the  Daily Mail  he obtained
the injunction to protect his family.  ‘Serious Problems’  The lawmaker who disclosed the Goodwin injunction, John Hemming, a Liberal Democrat member of the House of Commons, said
in an interview that “there are some serious problems
developing in the interpretation of the law.” He asked a
parliamentary committee to review whether it would be in the
public interest to publish the Goodwin order.  “I recognize that there is an issue to be looked at and
that the committee may feel that questions need to be asked as
to whether this is relevant in any way to the collapse of RBS,”
Hemming said in a statement. The government had to bail out the
bank in 2008.  Geraldine Proudler, a lawyer for Goodwin at Olswang LLP in
London, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  The court rulings draw on a range of privacy issues. In one
case, a judge said the rights of children have to be considered,
meaning an injunction is more likely for claimants with kids,
said Caroline Kean, head of litigation at media law firm  Wiggin
LLP  in London.  Family Affair  It’s “as if the court has handed a trump card to anyone
with a family,” Kean said. “It’s inconceivable that anyone in
your family wouldn’t have been affected adversely if you’re
having an affair. I think the court is no longer looking at the
balance, they have now given freedom of expression a specific
handicap.”  Cases this month include a ruling that stops the media from
naming a British soccer player who had a six-month affair. The
court allowed his girlfriend, a contestant on the TV show “ Big
Brother ,” Imogen Thomas, to be identified. In another case, a
“world-famous person” was granted an injunction stopping the
press from writing that he paid a prostitute for sex. The
woman’s name was allowed to be published.  “It’s very unfair” to women,” Hemming said. “Once
gagged, she can’t talk about it, so if she goes to the bar and
has a bit of a whinge, she can go to jail.”  Judicial Interpretations  Privacy injunctions were introduced in the U.K. when the
Human Rights Act was passed in 1998, Kean said. The government
didn’t publish guidance to the judiciary to instruct how the law
should be enforced, so it’s been interpreted by judges, with
rulings setting precedent for future decisions, she said.  “Because of the system of precedent, every time someone
gets an injunction in their favor, everyone has to follow on
that,” Kean said. “This body of cases has now built up, which
is binding. That’s why I think that Parliament has to
intervene.”  Rod Dadak, a lawyer at Lewis Silkin in London, said the
problems of super-injunctions against tabloids such as the News
of the World, the Sun, and the  Daily Star  are “overstated.”  “The dilemma that the courts have is that it is important
to remember that, while it is important for people to tell their
side of the story, most of the people are doing this for
money,” Dadak said. “And the people who are paying are the
newspapers who are not concerned with the privacy of others but
with getting revenue for their newspaper.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 