-- 
U.K. Consumer Confidence Falls to Lowest Since 2009 Recession

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-04-27T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/u-k-consumer-confidence-falls-to-lowest-since-2009-recession.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  slumped to
its weakest level since the depth of the recession in February
2009 as the government’s budget cuts began in earnest, a report
by GfK NOP Ltd. showed.  The index of sentiment fell to minus 31 in April from minus
28 in March, the London-based research group said in an e-mailed
statement today. The reading is down from minus 16 a year
earlier and each of the five measures that make up the gauge
declined on the month.  Household finances are under pressure from inflation that’s
double the Bank of England’s 2 percent target and the tightest
fiscal squeeze since World War II. The economy’s 0.5 percent
expansion in the first quarter was just enough to recover the
production lost during in the previous three months, when
freezing weather disrupted business across the country.  “Coming after six months of stagnant economic growth, this
is a significant drop, one that is bad news for the government
and bad news for the economy” GfK Social Research Managing
Director Nick Moon said in the statement. “These figures must
make the possibility of a double-dip recession increasingly
real.”  A measure of consumers’ assessment of their personal
financial situation over the last 12 months dropped 4 points to
minus 23, and the index on the next 12 months declined the same
amount to minus 14. A gauge of their willingness to make major
purchases fell 2 points to minus 31.  GfK’s index covering consumers’ views on the general
economic situation over the past 12 months dropped 3 points to
minus 57, while a measure of sentiment on the general economic
situation in the coming 12 months fell 1 point to minus 30.  Interest-Rate Bets  The report may reinforce investor expectations that the
 Bank of England  will maintain its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent to support the economy.  The rate will rise by 25 basis points by November,
according to forward contracts on the sterling overnight
interbank average, or Sonia, compiled by Tullett Prebon Ltd. On
March 30, Sonia contracts showed investors expected a rate
increase in July.  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) , the owner of Primark clothes
stores, reduced its full-year earnings forecast yesterday as it
anticipated weak consumer confidence and rising cotton prices
will cut profitability at its clothing unit.  “The squeeze on consumer disposable income will continue
for some while yet,” Chief Executive Officer George Weston said
in a phone interview.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said yesterday’s
economic growth report “reinforces our determination” to stick
to a deficit-reduction plan that will eliminate more than
300,000 public-sector jobs by 2015.  GfK surveyed 2,015 people from April 1 to April 10. The
results have a margin of error of 2 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  