-- 
U.K. Economy Grew 0.5% in First Quarter as Services Surged Most Since 2006

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-04-27T11:49:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/u-k-economy-grew-0-5-in-first-quarter-as-services-surged-most-since-2006.html
Britain’s economy rebounded in the
first quarter by enough to erase the contraction of the previous
three months on the strongest surge in service-industry growth
for four years.  Gross domestic product rose 0.5 percent from the final
quarter of 2010, when it fell by the same amount, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in London. The result matched the
median forecast of 28 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Services expanded by 0.9 percent, the most since 2006.  The economy’s production level has returned to where it was
before the fourth quarter, when the coldest December in a
century disrupted business across the country. Bank of England
officials are split on whether growth is strong enough to
withstand the biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II,
allowing them to remove stimulus to fight inflation.  “There’s not very strong growth momentum here,” Jens Larsen, chief European economist at  RBC Capital Markets  in
London, said in an interview on “The Pulse” with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television. The bank “is going to wait
until at least November before it starts hiking rates.”  The pound rose as much as 0.8 percent against the dollar
after the report and traded at $1.6560 as of 12:36 p.m. in
 London . The yield on the benchmark two-year gilt was up 6 basis
points today at 1.15 percent.  ‘Reinforces Our Determination’  “The good news is the economy is growing,” Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  told  BBC Television  today. “Of
course, around the world we are facing some choppy economic
conditions. I think that reinforces our determination to stick
to the course.”  Britain is the first member of the Group of Seven nations
to report official growth data for the first quarter. Services,
which make up 76 percent of the economy, expanded after a 1
percent increase in business services and finance, the
statistics office said.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s third-largest bank by assets, made
a good start this year “in a challenging external
environment,” Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  said in a
statement today. Earnings at its investment banking unit
declined by 33 percent after revenue fell.  Manufacturing Rebound  U.K. manufacturing increased by 1.1 percent in the first
quarter, driving a 0.4 percent gain in industrial production.
Construction shrank 4.7 percent, the most in two years, the
statistics office said.  “The 0.5 is an arithmetic effect,” Joe Grice, chief
economist at the ONS, told reporters at a briefing in London.
“Simply the fact that snow and adverse weather conditions
reduced GDP abnormally in the fourth quarter by 0.5 percent,
there will have been an arithmetic 0.5 percent increase which
will just take you back to the same level.”  While the pound’s drop of about 23 percent on a trade-
weighted basis since the start of 2007 has boosted manufacturers
by making British goods cheaper to buy abroad, they face
pressure to raise prices because of higher commodity prices. The
 Confederation of British Industry  said yesterday its measure of
expected average selling prices for factories rose to 36 in
April from 33 to reach the highest since January 1990.  MPC Split  Inflation was 4 percent in March, double the bank’s 2
percent target, and prospects for consumer prices have split the
central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee.  Andrew Sentance , who
has been voting for an interest-rate increase since June, said
yesterday in Manchester that annual price gains are likely to
accelerate.  Minutes of the April decision showed Sentance maintained a
push for a half-point increase, while  Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale  kept up a call for a quarter-point move. The remaining six
officials preferred to maintain the record low of 0.5 percent.  Price gains are also squeezing Britons’ spending power as
Osborne vows to stick to a plan to eliminate the bulk of the
U.K.’s record deficit by April 2015. The spending bill fell by 6
billion pounds ($10 billion) in the year to March and will cut
310,000 jobs in the public sector.  “These figures show an economy that has flatlined since
the autumn,”  Ed Balls , who speaks for the opposition  Labour
Party  on finance, said in an e-mailed statement. “By making a
political choice to cut further and faster than any other major
economy this Conservative-led government has choked off the
recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  