-- 
U.S. Stocks Rally as Federal Reserve Signals Low Interest Rates

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-27T20:45:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/u-s-stock-futures-rise-before-fed-johnson-johnson-climbs.html
U.S. stocks rose, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index the fifth gain in six days, as the
 Federal Reserve  renewed its pledge to stimulate growth with low
rates and said a pickup in inflation is likely temporary.  General Electric Co. (GE)  added 2.7 percent after saying it
wants to boost its dividend.  Moody’s Corp. (MCO) , whose founder John
Moody created credit ratings more than a century ago, climbed
6.7 percent as profit beat estimates by 25 percent.  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  gained 7.9 percent as the world’s largest online retailer
reported sales that topped predictions and Deutsche Bank AG
increased its share-price estimate to $215.  The S&P 500 added 0.6 percent to 1,355.66 at 4 p.m. in  New
York . The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 95.59 points, or
0.8 percent, to 12,690.96. The Russell 2000 Index of small
companies rose 0.6 percent to 858.31, a record. The Fed left its
benchmark interest rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent and
retained a pledge in place since March 2009 to keep it
“exceptionally low” for an “extended period.”  “It’s a sigh of relief,” said Eric Teal, chief investment
officer at First Citizens Bancshares Inc. in Raleigh,  North
Carolina , which manages $4 billion. “The Fed kept the language.
At least for the rest of this year and into next year, we see
accommodative policy. In addition, there’s a perception that the
signs of inflation are fairly tamed at this juncture. That’s
another positive. Before the announcement, we also got good
corporate earnings releases. So, that combination is lifting the
equity markets at this point.”  Economic Stimulus  The  S&P 500  has rallied 29 percent since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  suggested on Aug. 27 that he would pursue a second
round of asset purchases to stimulate the economy, a tactic
known as quantitative easing. Earnings per share beat estimates
at 77 percent of the 197 companies in the S&P 500 that have
reported quarterly results since April 11, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bernanke has signaled he’ll maintain record stimulus until
job growth accelerates and the recovery is robust enough to
withstand tighter credit. The Fed chief has said he expects that
a surge this year in fuel and food costs will have only a
passing inflationary impact, differing with Fed regional bank
presidents who say borrowing costs may need to rise to contain
prices.  ‘Transitory’  “The economic recovery is proceeding at a moderate pace
and overall conditions in the labor market are improving
gradually,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said today in its
statement after a two-day meeting in  Washington . “Increases in
the prices of energy and other commodities have pushed up
inflation in recent months,” and the Fed expects “these
effects to be transitory,” the statement said.  Bernanke said the end of the Fed’s $600 billion bond-buying
program in June probably won’t have a “significant” effect on
financial markets or the economy, and the central bank will
likely continue reinvesting maturing debt after June.  “We are going to complete the program at the end of the
second quarter,” he said at his first press conference
following a policy meeting. “The end of the program is unlikely
to have a significant effect on financial markets or the
economy.”  A report before the open of exchanges showed that orders
for durable goods rose in March for a third consecutive month,
showing businesses intend to keep spending to update equipment.
Bookings for equipment meant to last at least three years
climbed 2.5 percent after a 0.7 percent gain the prior month
that was revised from a previously reported drop, the Commerce
Department said.  GE Gains  GE added 2.7 percent, the most in the Dow average, to
$20.65. Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said the global
economy continues to improve even as oil prices rise.  “It’s always something to be concerned about because of
 consumer confidence , but from a GE context, we have such great
technology” in energy products, Immelt told reporters today
before the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company’s annual meeting
in Salt Lake City. “It’s something to think about, but it
doesn’t seem to be hurting the economy. So far.”  Moody’s climbed 6.7 percent to $38.33 after saying that
first-quarter profit rose 37 percent as companies issued a
record amount of debt, boosting demand for its services.
Corporate bonds sales in the U.S. increased 24 percent to $398.3
billion last quarter from a year earlier, spurring demand for
ratings. Moody’s also raised its annual earnings forecast and
said it would boost its quarterly dividend to 14 cents a share.  Sales Top Estimates  Amazon.com climbed 7.9 percent to $196.63. The world’s
largest online retailer reported first-quarter sales that topped
predictions. Deutsche Bank increased its share-price estimate to
$215 from $192, saying profit growth will resume in the fourth
quarter.    DeVry Inc. (DV)  gained 7.2 percent to $53.70. The for-profit
education company reported third-quarter earnings excluding some
items of $1.32 a share, beating the average analyst estimate of
$1.23, Bloomberg data show.  “We’re seeing pretty healthy signs,” said Paul Zemsky,
the New York-based head of asset allocation for ING Investment
Management, which oversees $550 billion. “We have a combination
of better economic data, strong earnings and new highs for the
market. Companies are making money and willing to spend some
money to reinvest into their businesses. They are confident
enough about the economy and about their own prospects.”  Broadcom Slumps  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  slumped 12 percent to $35.45. The biggest
maker of chips for television set-top boxes forecast second-
quarter revenue that missed analysts’ estimates as customers
such as  Nokia Oyj (NOK)  and Samsung Electronics Co. struggle to boost
sales. Chief Executive Officer Scott McGregor cited a slowdown
in sales to cellphone makers for the forecast, though he said
Broadcom is holding or gaining market share.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  dropped 1.7 percent to $79.83. The third-
largest U.S. oil company reported first-quarter profit of $1.82
a share on an adjusted basis. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had
estimated profit of $1.92 on average.  Financial stocks are poised to rally after lagging behind
the S&P 500 because the two groups are echoing a pattern set
last year, Oppenheimer & Co.’s Carter Worth said.  The  Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLF) , an exchange-traded
fund tracking 82 S&P 500 companies in the industry, lost 2
percent in the past year through yesterday, while the  SPDR S&P
500 ETF Trust (SPY) , an ETF linked to the entire index, jumped 11
percent. The ratio of their prices fell to 0.121 in November
from 0.141 in April 2010, meaning the financial ETF trailed the
S&P 500, before rebounding to 0.129 in January. It has since
fallen to 0.12.  “Our hunch is that the disconnect is resolved this time
just as it was resolved late last autumn, with the financials
coming to life and playing catch-up with the market,” New York-
based Worth wrote in a note sent to clients yesterday.
“Something has to give.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  Sao Paulo  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  