-- 
U.S. Seeks Action Against Syria in UN Human Rights Council

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-27T17:26:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/u-s-seeks-action-against-syria-in-un-human-rights-council.html
The Obama administration is asking
the  United Nations   Human Rights Council  to derail Syria’s
request for membership in the organization and to condemn the
government’s attacks on peaceful protesters.  A special session of the Geneva-based council was scheduled
for April 29 after a U.S. request for the meeting received the
necessary backing from 15 other members.  “The international community has been shocked by the
killing of hundreds of civilians in connection with peaceful
political protests in the past week,” Eileen Chamberlain
Donahoe, the U.S. envoy to the  Human Rights Council , said in a
statement today.  The latest Syrian crackdown on demonstrations, in the past
five days mostly in the southern region of Daraa, has brought
the nationwide death toll since mid-March to more than 450,
Ammar Qurabi, head of  Syria ’s National Organization for Human
Rights said in a telephone interview today.  The U.S. circulated a draft resolution to the Human Rights
Council’s 46 other members that would condemn attacks on
protesters and call for Syria’s government to free expression
and assembly, halt attempts to block Internet use and other
communication networks, and release political prisoners. It
would also call for an international inquiry into the violence.  Syria is one of four candidates for four seats on the Human
Rights Council that will go to Asian nations when the UN General
Assembly votes on May 20 for new members. The so-called clean
slate, endorsed in January by the Asian Group of countries, put
Syria in a position to win a three-year term.  Alternative Candidates  The U.S. and other Western nations have been seeking
alternative Asian candidates and wants the Human Rights Council
to say in the draft resolution that UN member nations should
consider the recent unrest in Syria when casting their votes.  The UN  Security Council  has scheduled a meeting for 3 p.m.
today in  New York  to discuss a draft statement by Britain,
 France ,  Germany  and Portugal condemning government attacks on
protesters.  “There are European Union countries that wanted a strong
reaction,” France’s Ambassador  Gerard Araud  told reporters
today in New York. “Other countries were very much more
cautious, saying we have to know better about what is happening
on the ground.”  UN Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs Lynn Pascoe is scheduled to brief the Security Council on the
situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  