-- 
U.S. Mortgage Applications Fell 5.6% Last Week on Purchases

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-27T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/u-s-mortgage-applications-fell-5-6-last-week-on-purchases.html
Mortgage applications in the U.S.
declined last week, led by the biggest drop in purchase requests
in almost a year.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s index of loan
applications decreased 5.6 percent in the period ended April 22.
The group’s gauge of purchases plunged 14 percent, the biggest
decline since May, and the refinancing measure fell 0.6 percent.  The prospect of more foreclosures and further declines in
 home prices  may keep potential buyers on the sidelines.
Unemployment at 8.8 percent and strict lending requirements mean
any recovery in the housing market may take years to unfold.  “The housing market basically has bottomed, but it’s not
going to recover any time soon,”  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S.
economist at UniCredit Group in New York, said before the
report. “The housing market is just treading water.”  The average rate on a 30-year fixed loan decreased last
week to 4.80 percent from 4.83 percent, the mortgage bankers
group said. Borrowing costs reached 4.21 percent in October, a
record-low dating back to when the group’s data began in 1990.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 3.3 percent in February from a year earlier, the group said
yesterday in  New York . The gauge is down 33 percent from its
July 2006 peak, almost matching the recession low reached in
April 2009.  Real-estate markets for single-family homes “either were
little changed from low levels or continued to weaken across all
Districts,” in February and March, according to the  Federal
Reserve ’s Beige Book. For homebuilders, “the spring building
season is likely to be slower than previously anticipated,” the
Fed said in its April 13 regional report.  Home Sales  Previously owned home purchases climbed 3.7 percent to a
5.1 million annual rate in March, a National Association of
Realtors report showed April 20. All-cash deals, for which no
lending is required, accounted for 35 percent of the
transactions, the most on record, while distressed sales were 40
percent of the total, the group said.  Builders see few grounds for optimism.  KB Home (KBH) , the Los
Angeles-based homebuilder that targets first-time buyers, this
month reported a bigger-than-expected loss for the quarter ended
Feb. 28 as orders plunged.  “This recovery has yet to include significant job growth
and has not spilled over into housing,” President and Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said during a conference call
with analysts on April 5. “A difficult housing environment
continues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  