-- 
U.S. Durable Goods Orders Gain Points to Better Spending

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-27T20:26:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/u-s-durable-goods-orders-rise-for-third-month-as-equipment-is-replenished.html
Demand for U.S. durable goods rose
in March for a third consecutive month, indicating business
investment will pick up.  Bookings for equipment meant to last at least three years
climbed 2.5 percent after a 0.7 percent gain the prior month
that reversed a previously reported drop, the Commerce
Department said today in  Washington . The increase reflected
growing demand for machinery, computers and automobiles.  Exports to emerging economies like China and the need to
increase stockpiles are drivers of the factory rebound
spearheading the recovery. Federal Reserve policy makers today
acknowledged the economy is growing at “a moderate pace,” one
reason why they agreed to finish $600 billion in bond purchases
on schedule in June.  “Any time you end a quarter on an up note, the next
quarter has a better outlook,” said  Jonathan Basile , a senior
economist at Credit Suisse in  New York . “The manufacturing
sector is growing at a healthy clip. It’s still growing,
supported by global demand and weak dollar.”  Stocks climbed after the Fed’s announcement. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to 1,355.66 at the 4 p.m.
close in New York.  Treasury securities  dropped, sending the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 3.36 percent from 3.31
percent late yesterday.  Median Forecast  The median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected a 2.3 percent increase in orders after a
previously reported 0.6 percent February drop. Estimates ranged
from a decline of 3.5 percent to a gain of 6.7 percent.  Orders excluding transportation equipment rose 1.3 percent,
the best performance so far this year.  The report failed to capture a surge in demand at  Boeing
Co. (BA)  The largest U.S. maker of aircraft said this month it
received orders for 98 airplanes in March, up from 21 the prior
month. The Commerce Department reported a 0.9 percent increase
in demand for commercial airplanes last month. Industry data may
not correlate precisely with the government statistics on a
month-to-month basis.  Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
items like computers and communications gear, increased 3.7
percent after increasing 0.5 percent the prior month. Shipments
of such goods, used in calculating gross domestic product,
increased 2.2 percent after increasing 0.4 percent.  Nonetheless, the data indicate business investment cooled
last quarter. Shipments rose at a 2.2 percent annual rate in the
three months to March compared with a 7.8 percent gain in the
last quarter of 2010.  Broad-based Gain  Demand for machinery rose 4.2 percent, increased 10 percent
for computers and related products and rose 3.7 percent for
autos.  Economists may mark up forecasts for first-quarter gross
domestic product after the report showed inventories jumped.
Stockpiles grew by 1.3 percent in March, the same as in the
prior month.  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake and subsequent nuclear crisis
have affected some producers more than others.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s largest carmaker, posted a
32 percent gain in U.S. sales in March while Japan’s Toyota
Motor Corp. reported a monthly decline. Japan’s Nissan Motor Co.
and Honda Motor Co. both posted sales gains even as they braced
for the full effect of the earthquake, which is still disrupting
auto and parts production.  U.S. auto sales fell in March to a 13.06 million annual
pace from 13.38 million in February, which was the most in 18
months, according to industry data.  Earthquake Disruption  Microchip Technology Inc. (MCHP)  Chief Executive Officer Steve Sanghi last month was fielding a “barrage” of requests for
replacement parts after the earthquake disrupted global
semiconductor supplies.  Customers should order at least 12 weeks’ worth of their
needs for microcontrollers, used in devices from washing
machines to coffee makers to car parts, Sanghi wrote in a March
21 letter. “I am expecting a huge surge of redesign
inquiries,” Sanghi wrote.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest analog-chipmaker, on
April 18 forecast second-quarter revenue and profit that fell
short of some analysts’ estimates as lower Japanese demand and
falling mobile-phone chip sales hurt orders. Texas Instruments
said the earthquake and tsunami curbed demand in Japan and cut
output at the plants it operates, as well as those of its
customers and suppliers.  Tax Break  The business spending that helped lead the economy out of
recession in mid-2009 may be helped this year in part by
President Barack Obama’s December compromise with congressional
Republicans on taxes. Companies will be able to depreciate 100
percent of investments in capital equipment in 2011.  Demand from fast-growing countries like  China  and  Brazil  is
spurring U.S. exports of machinery and consumer goods. Sales
overseas reached the highest level on record in January before
falling in February for the first time in six months.  “The economic recovery is proceeding at a moderate pace
and overall conditions in the labor market are improving
gradually,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said today in its
statement after a two-day meeting in Washington. While
“household spending and business investment in equipment and
software continue to expand,” policy makers acknowledged that
commercial and residential construction remains depressed and
that inflation “has picked up in recent months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  