-- 
U.S. Tax-Cheat Rule, Sweden Bank Rules, Adviser Transparency: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-04-27T11:45:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/u-s-tax-cheat-rule-sweden-bank-rules-adviser-transparency-compliance.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  is opposing
U.S. efforts that would require it to sift through a $430
billion deposit base to find U.S. citizens or residents who
might be dodging tax bills back home.  The Canadian institution says the regulation being
completed by the  Internal Revenue Service  would translate to an
estimated $100 million in software and staffing costs for TD.  Other banks, including  Allianz SE (ALV)  of Germany,  Aegon NV (AGN)  of
the Netherlands and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , are relaying
their worries about implementation costs to the IRS and the
Obama administration. The  Australian Bankers Association  says so
few customers would be implicated through the rule that all of
that country’s banks should be exempted.  The regulation requires non-U.S. banks to identify and
collect tax information about their U.S. account-holders. The
institutions must withhold 30 percent of interest and dividend
payments from those who provide inadequate information.  The rule implements the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act,
or FATCA, which Congress included in a jobs package enacted in
March 2010. The regulation is slated to take effect on Jan. 1,
2013, and is expected to generate $8.7 billion over 10 years,
according to the congressional  Joint Committee on Taxation .  The IRS has released two sets of guidelines, including one
on April 8, intended to help institutions plan for the rule.  Non-U.S. banking companies are quick to say they support
the goal of hunting down tax cheats. The central question, they
say, is whether an expensive search is worth what they view as a
modest return in terms of  tax revenue .  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Sweden Doesn’t Need Bank Rule Nordic Harmony, Ingves Says  Sweden must be ready to impose harsher bank rules than in
the rest of Scandinavia even after its biggest lender signaled
it may move its headquarters outside the Nordic country, central
bank Governor Stefan Ingves said.  “Harmony is a good thing but in the end, given that it’s
the public purse that backs up the banking sector and as long as
it remains like that, it’s going to be up to each individual
country to choose what to do,” Ingves, 57, said in an interview
in Stockholm.  Ingves, who was one of the main architects of Sweden’s
1990s bank restructuring that led to the creation of  Nordea Bank
AB (NDA) , said larger capital buffers will help the government
safeguard taxpayer funds. Nordea Chairman Bjoern Wahlroos’s
suggestion this month that he may shift the bank’s headquarters
to escape tougher capital rules is the latest threat from
Sweden’s financial sector it will fight policymakers’ efforts to
enforce some of the world’s strictest regulatory standards.  “We know how much a banking crisis costs and how
troublesome it is to solve,” Ingves told Bloomberg yesterday.
“It’s not in the interest of society to in some sense have a
race to the bottom when it comes to capital coverage.”  For more, click here.  Greek Deficit Tops Forecasts as Euro-Area Debt Reaches Record  Greece’s budget deficit exceeded government estimates and
the euro area’s overall debt reached a record, narrowing
Europe’s options for putting an end to the fiscal crisis.  Greece’s shortfall was 10.5 percent of gross domestic
product in 2010, higher than a 9.4 percent estimate made by the
Greek government in February, official European Union figures
showed yesterday.  Greek bond yields surged, rekindling speculation that a
debt write-off or extension of the country’s repayment timelines
will be the only way out of the fiscal trap.  The cost of insuring debt sold by Greece and Portugal rose
to records, according to traders of credit-default swaps.  Greek
Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government has ruled out a
restructuring, saying it would devastate domestic banks and
hammer the economy. Yesterday’s data brought the debt crisis
back to where it started last year when Greece obtained a 110
billion-euro lifeline from European governments and the
 International Monetary Fund .  A buildup of debt is making it harder for wealthier
countries to aid the fiscally weaker states.  For more, click here.  Drugmakers Pushing FDA to Issue Social Media Rules  U.S. regulators may issue rules this year outlining for the
first time how drugmakers led by  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  can use social
media sites such as Twitter and Facebook to promote and track
the performance of medicines.  Megan Hughes reported from  Washington  on “InBusiness with
Margaret Brennan.”  For the video report, click here.  China  to Revoke License of Operators Adding Illegal Additives  China will revoke relevant licenses for businesses that
intentionally add illegal additives to food, the  General
Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine 
said on its website.  The country will also confiscate proceeds and items related
to the illegal adding of additives and ask the operators to give
compensation for harm caused, according to the statement.  Compliance Action  BrightScope Aims to Beat SEC, Finra at Adviser Transparency  BrightScope Inc. , the firm that rates thousands of
corporate 401(k) retirement plans, is starting a  website  that
will show disciplinary histories for financial advisers.  The firm was set to begin publishing yesterday a database
of registered investment advisers and brokers that displays
customer disputes and terminations as well as assets under
management, and eventually aims to publish performance histories
and fee schedules that investors may search, Mike Alfred, co-
founder and chief executive officer of San Diego-based
BrightScope, said in an interview last week at Bloomberg
headquarters in  New York .  The site, which is free to investors, has about 450,000
listings on its database, and includes most registered
investment advisers and a majority of brokers, Alfred said. The
firm will add listings for insurance brokers, who generally are
licensed with their individual states, during the next 90 days,
Alfred said.  BrightScope’s listings eventually will show “red flags”
for investors, including whether an adviser has any disclosed
conflicts of interest and whether he or she maintains custody of
client assets, Alfred said. Bernard L. Madoff, the broker and
registered investment adviser who pleaded guilty in March 2009
to running a Ponzi scheme, kept control of his clients’ assets
rather than using a third-party custodian such as  Charles Schwab
Corp. (SCHW)  or Fidelity Investments.  It’s unclear how BrightScope will be able to publish
returns for advisers and brokers while complying with existing
regulations about how performance histories may be disclosed,
Alfred said. The company will “sit down” with the Securities
and Exchange Commission and the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority to “talk about the regulatory implications,” he
said.  Finra spokeswoman Michelle Ong and SEC spokesman Kevin
Callahan declined to comment on the website or its plans.  For more, click here.  Barclays Says It Is Part of Regulatory Probe Into Libor  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s third-largest bank by assets, said
it is cooperating with U.K. and U.S. regulators investigating
the possible breach of rules governing the daily London
interbank offered rate.  Regulators “are conducting investigations relating to
certain past submissions made by Barclays to the British
Bankers’ Association, which sets Libor,” the London-based bank
said in a statement today.  British and U.S. regulators are examining whether
communications between Barclays’s traders and its treasury broke
rules that prevent information being shared across the firm, a
person briefed on the probe said last month. Barclays is one of
several banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  that have
received subpoenas from U.S. regulators investigating whether
some firms manipulated the Libor, two separate people familiar
with the probe said.  The U.S. Justice Department, Securities and Exchange
Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission are working
together with the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority on the
probe.  Mizuho Group to Be Inspected by Japan’s Regulator After Glitch  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Japan’s third-largest bank by
market value, will be inspected by the nation’s  Financial
Services Agency  after system problems including the failure of
automated teller machines at one of its units, the regulator
said on its website.  Computer malfunctions since March 15 at retail-banking unit
Mizuho Bank Ltd. delayed transactions valued at more than $10
billion, including salary payments, curtailing access to funds
in the wake of Japan’s most powerful earthquake on March 11. The
unit has been under inspection by the regulator.  The Financial Services Minister Shozaburo Jimi last month
vowed to deal with the bank’s system failures “sternly,”
adding that the glitch occurred in part because many people
tried to send money to victims of the quake and ensuing tsunami
in northern Japan. The disaster probably had limited impact on
the banking industry overall, he said.  Courts  Ex-Galleon Trader Craig Drimal Pleads Guilty to Fraud  Craig Drimal, a former trader at Galleon Group LLC charged
with insider trading in a federal investigation of the New York
hedge fund, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and five counts of
securities fraud.  Drimal, 54, said yesterday in federal court in New York
that he and others at Galleon traded on inside information
obtained from lawyers working on transactions involving 3Com
Corp. and Axcan Pharma Inc. in 2007. Drimal said the information
was obtained from Arthur Cutillo and Brien Santarlas, lawyers at
Boston-based Ropes & Gray LLP.  Drimal told U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan he
believed his conduct “was illegal and wrong” at the time he
did the trades and he expressed “deep regret” for his actions.  Drimal and co-defendants faced trial next month for
allegedly taking part in what prosecutors said was one of three
insider-trading rings tied to Galleon. The jury in the trial of
the fund’s co-founder,  Raj Rajaratnam , began deliberating April
25.  Sullivan told Drimal yesterday that he might be sentenced
to 70 to 87 months in prison when he is sentenced Sept. 9 and be
fined as much as $5 million. Drimal is the 21st person to plead
guilty in overlapping schemes relating to the Galleon probe.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews  FBR’s Miller Says Dodd-Frank Hurting Bank Revenue Growth  Paul Miller , a bank analyst at FBR Capital Markets and a
former examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia,
talked about the impact of the U.S. overhaul of financial rules
on banks.  Miller also discussed prospects for loan growth. He spoke
with Matt Miller and  Carol Massar  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Street Smart.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Forest Laboratories’ Solomon May Be Barred From U.S. Programs  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Howard Solomon, whose company paid $313 million to
settle a U.S. fraud case last year, is the latest pharmaceutical
executive facing a ban from doing business with federal health
programs.  Forest and Solomon were notified of the action in an April
12 letter from the  Office of Inspector General  at the  Department
of Health and Human Services , the New York-based drugmaker said
in a statement. The Department of Health and Human Services has
had the authority to ban company officials since 1996 and has
moved against 28 individuals since then, the agency said in
November. The exclusions are part of a broader effort to make
executives and owners more accountable for companies’ actions
and reduce fraud in the U.S. health programs, regulators
announced last year.  “It would be completely unwarranted to exclude a senior
executive against whom there has never been any allegation of
wrongdoing whatsoever,” William Candee III, a Forest director,
said in the company’s April 13 statement. The company is
“hopeful” that Solomon will not be excluded.  Solomon has 30 days from receipt of the letter to respond
and plans to contest the regulator’s effort to forbid him from
doing business with the health programs, Forest said in its
statement.  Frank Murdolo, Forest vice president of investor relations,
didn’t respond to a voice message requesting an interview. Hugh
Burns of the public-relations firm Sard Verbinnen & Co. in New
York, which represents the drugmaker, declined to comment.
Donald White, a spokesman for the HHS inspector general’s
office, also declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 