-- 
U.S. Chamber, Manufacturers Ask EPA to Halt Boiler Rules

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-04-27T21:59:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/u-s-chamber-manufacturers-ask-epa-to-halt-boiler-rules-1-.html
The U.S.  Chamber of Commerce  and
the  National Association of Manufacturers  are leading industry
groups in asking the Environmental Protection Agency to suspend
new rules limiting emissions from boilers.  The groups requested an immediate delay in implementing the
pending regulations, according to a document filed with the
agency. The EPA in February issued pollution rules for
industrial boilers that agency said were 50 percent less costly
than proposed in June 2010.  U.S. companies had said the initial proposal would cost
industry as much as $20 billion and may destroy 300,000 jobs.
The EPA has said it will consider making further changes to the
final rules. The trade groups say businesses shouldn’t be
required to comply with the new standards.  “We expect there will be significantly different final
rules,” Alicia Meads, director of energy and resources policy
at the Washington-based manufacturers’ group, told reporters
today on a conference call. “It’s very counterproductive for
these facilities to be installing new pollution control devices
that they may not have to.”  The agency received the request and “will give it prompt
and serious consideration,” the EPA said today in an e-mail.  The agency estimated in 2010 that the boiler rules would
cost U.S. industry $9.5 billion. The final standards are 50
percent less costly, according to the EPA.  The regulations are aimed at cutting toxic air emissions
such as mercury and soot. The EPA has said the rules will create
2,200 jobs, excluding making or installing pollution controls.
The reduced emissions will prevent 2,600 to 6,600 premature
deaths, according to the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  