-- 
U.S. Bancorp Targets Ultra-Wealthy Clients With Program to Build ‘Legacy’

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-04-27T19:23:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/u-s-bancorp-establishes-unit-for-high-net-worth-clients.html
U.S. Bancorp, the fifth-largest
U.S. lender by deposits, said its wealth-management group is
establishing a program to help ultra-high-net-worth clients
build legacies and control the impact of money on their
families.  The initiative, called Ascent Private Capital Management,
will help clients focus on wealth-transfer goals rather than
only wealth accumulation, the Minneapolis-based company said
today in a statement. Among services, the unit will assist with
family governance and risk management, multigenerational wealth
planning and education.  “ U.S. Bank  will provide clients with the guidance and
tools they need to help them positively impact the world and
establish their legacy,” Michael Cole, president of the
company’s ultra-high-net-worth business, said today in the
statement. He will run the program.  The company, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Richard Davis, 53, is seeking to build its wealth management and
securities business, which last year contributed the smallest
share of revenue among the bank’s four main divisions. It hired
Cole, who previously worked at  Wells Fargo & Co ., in July for
the newly created position overseeing ultra-high-net-worth
clients.  U.S. Bancorp is looking to add 70 to 80 employees during
the next 12 months for the initiative, Cole said today in a
phone interview.  In March, the firm hired Daniel Rauchle as head of
 investment management  and Scott Winget as senior managing
director of wealth planning for the ultra-high-net-worth group,
which the bank defines as holding a minimum of $25 million of
investable assets. Rauchle and Winget also had worked at Wells
Fargo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 