-- 
U.S. CIO Kundra Says Government Is Shutting 137 Data Centers

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 
2011-04-27T21:39:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/u-s-cio-kundra-says-government-is-shutting-137-data-centers-1-.html
The U.S. government has closed 39
computer data centers and plans to shut down 98 more by the end
of the year, the federal government’s top technology officer
said today.  The Obama administration plans to consolidate 137
facilities in all, or 325,000 square feet (30,193 square meters)
of space that is filled with servers, networks, routers and
switches, U.S. Chief Information Officer Vivek Kundra said at a
White House event. The meeting was held to promote
administration efforts to better manage the government’s $80
billion  information technology  budget.  Overall, the government has more than 2,000 data centers,
many of which are costly and pose a “huge security threat”
because agencies hadn’t kept track of the facilities they
operated, Kundra said.  The Agriculture Department will close 10 data centers this
year and will eventually reduce the facilities to seven from 43,
Kathleen Merrigan, the department’s deputy secretary, said at
the event. The  Health and Human Services Department  recently
shuttered a 14,992-square-foot (1,393-square-meter)  data center 
in Rockville,  Maryland .  The administration’s initiative to close “duplicative”
data centers is “welcome news” as it tries to reduce what it
spends each year on information technology, Senator Tom Carper,
a Democrat from  Delaware  and chairman of the federal financial
management and government information subcommittee, said in a
statement.  Shift to Cloud  Kundra also said agencies are making progress in moving
computer systems to the cloud, a key component in the
administration’s strategy to reduce information technology
costs. Systems valued at $20 billion may move to the cloud, a
shared pool of computing resources including servers and data
storage operated by contractors, he said.  Agencies have focused on websites and e-mail systems as the
first systems to shift to the cloud. Fifteen agencies have
identified 950,000 inboxes spanning 100 e-mail systems as
eligible for the move. The Agriculture Department has
transferred 17,000 employee e-mail accounts to the cloud and
plans to move 120,000 by the end of the year, Merrigan said.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  are among
the contractors that offer cloud services. Kundra said he hopes
small businesses, including Silicon Valley start-ups, will
compete with the “tech titans in the industry.”  “Right now it’s asymmetrically tilted because the
procurement process is so complicated. It takes so long” that
small businesses don’t think it’s worth it to sell to the
government, Kundra said in an interview after the event.  To help coordinate procurement of cloud e-mail services,
the  General Services Administration  will open competition May 10
for $2.5 billion in cloud contracts to serve federal agencies,
Kundra said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  