-- 
Lugar's Threat Exposes Republican Rift as Lawmaker Vacations in Florida

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-04-27T17:18:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/lugar-s-threat-exposes-republican-rift-as-lawmaker-vacations-in-florida.html
In a southern Indiana banquet room
last week, Republicans dined on pork chops, listened to local
politicians, then cast an informal vote in a race on all their
minds: next year’s re-election bid by six-term Senator  Richard Lugar , their party’s senior-most member of Congress.  Lugar lost the Pike County Republican straw poll, with 11
votes to 42 for primary challenger Richard Mourdock, the state
treasurer. Mourdock, who is courting support from Tea Party
activists, was the keynote speaker at the April 21 dinner. Lugar
was on a family vacation on Sanibel Island, Florida.  At this point, Lugar “has to be regarded as the
underdog,” and his decision to take time off during Congress’s
April recess rather than campaign is surprising, said Stu Rothenberg, editor of the nonpartisan  Rothenberg Political
Report . “It seems to reflect what I see as a failure to
understand the environment out there, and possibly his
unwillingness to see the difficult political shape that he’s
in.”  The Pike County results provide a glimpse of the challenge
that Lugar, 79, faces from the influence of anti-government,
anti-tax Tea Party supporters. More than a year before the
primary, Mourdock, 59, said he’s also backed by a majority of
 Indiana ’s 92 Republican county chairmen.  Questionable Gauge  Lugar, who declined to be interviewed, has a decades-long
connection with voters who appreciate his reputation for taking
principled stands, and he is in a position to win re-election,
said David Willkie, his campaign’s political director. County
party chiefs are “one group of note” in a state with more than
6 million residents, and local straw polls aren’t a sound gauge
of voter sentiment, he said.  As for Lugar’s decision to spend time in Florida, Willkie
said the senator has made other recent trips to Indiana, and the
vacation offered him a chance to “recharge the batteries”
before next May’s primary.  “Certainly he has the fire in the belly” and still thinks
he has big contributions to make in the Senate, Willkie said.  The primary challenge Lugar confronts underscores how
Republican politics have changed. The elder statesman, and top
Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, didn’t
have a major-party opponent in his last election in 2006, when
tenure and an ability to work across party lines were seen as
assets. He won his three previous general elections with about
two-thirds of the vote.  Top Target  In a new era that stresses confrontation over compromise,
Lugar is a top target of a Tea Party movement that last year
ousted three-term  Utah  Senator  Robert Bennett  and fielded a
winning Republican primary opponent to Alaska Senator  Lisa Murkowski .  The Tea Party activists wanting to oust Lugar are unhappy
about his support for the $700 billion financial bailout passed
in 2008, his ability to shepherd nuclear arms treaties through
the Senate, and his votes in favor of President Barack Obama’s
two Supreme Court nominees.  A Rhodes scholar and former Indianapolis mayor who first
won his Senate seat in 1976, Lugar is tied with  Orrin Hatch  of
Utah as the Senate’s longest-serving Republicans.  On the Foreign Relations Committee, he’s made nuclear
nonproliferation a hallmark, and was nominated for the Nobel
Peace Prize in 2000 for his work with former Georgia Democratic
Senator Sam Nunn to create a program to help countries of the
former  Soviet Union  dispose of weapons of mass destruction.
Lugar raised concerns about the war in  Iraq , and worked with
Democrats to hold dozens of oversight hearings of the Bush
administration’s war effort.  ‘Hoosier Gold Standard’  “He’s been the Hoosier gold standard,” said Ed Feigenbaum, who tracks state politics for the Indiana
Legislative Insight newsletter in Noblesville, Indiana. “He’s
represented the state well for many decades, and the only real
quarrel some people seem to have with him is they don’t perceive
him as being conservative enough today.”  Lugar has emphasized some differences with Democrats in
recent weeks, demanding that Obama detail U.S. objectives in the
military intervention in  Libya  and voting in favor of a House-
passed bill to cut spending by $61 billion this fiscal year.  Arms Treaty  Still, he largely stands by his past positions and has
shown flashes of annoyance with critics. In February, he said
Tea Partiers should “get real” about their opposition to a new
strategic arms reduction treaty with Russia he helped steer
through the Senate last year during an interview with an Indiana
CBS affiliate.  In a January interview with U.S. News & World Report, Lugar
said many Tea Party members “are unhappy about life in America
and they want to express themselves.” Their concerns, though,
often involve “sort of large cliché titles,” and “they are not
able to articulate all the specifics,” he said.  With a difficult Republican primary for the incumbent,
Democrats see opportunity. Third-term Democratic Representative
Joe Donnelly is considering a bid.  Mourdock poses a serious challenge in the Republican
primary because he “has a foot planted in the establishment and
the insurgent camps in the  Republican Party  in Indiana,”
Feigenbaum said.  Chrysler Case  A coal-company geologist who in November won re-election as
state treasurer, Mourdock gained attention when he sued to block
Chrysler LLC’s bankruptcy reorganization plan in 2009 on behalf
of Indiana pension funds that lost money in the automaker’s
government-backed bailout. Mourdock appealed to the
U.S. Supreme Court, which ruled against the funds -- costing
Indiana taxpayers $2 million in legal fees.  With Lugar often in  Washington , Mourdock barnstorms the
state. On April 21, he spoke at a Kiwanis Club luncheon in
Evansville and met with College Republicans at the University of
Evansville before heading to Pike County’s Lincoln Day event --
his 32nd appearance this year at a county party dinner.  Lugar is scheduled to make his second and third such
appearances before Greene County and Clay County Republicans on
April 29 and April 30. He gives a commencement address on April
30 at Vincennes University in Vincennes, Indiana. In  Florida ,
Lugar held two fundraisers with other vacationing Hoosiers, said
his spokesman, Mark Helmke.  Mourdock said he’s taking on the senator because Lugar’s
policies are out of kilter with a party increasingly focused on
shrinking the size of government.  Different Priorities  “Senator Lugar’s been a great senator for his time, but I
think we’re in the 21st century,” he said in an interview.
“There needs to be attention paid to a different set of
priorities and a more consistently conservative set of values.”  According to National Journal ratings, Lugar’s voting
record in 1988 was seen as reflecting conservative views on 81
percent of economic issues, 70 percent of social measures and 66
percent of foreign policy votes. Two decades later, his 2008
conservative ratings were 70 percent on the economy, 57 percent
on social issues and 56 percent on foreign policy.  Lugar has a fundraising advantage, taking in $974,000 and
reporting $3 million cash on hand in the quarter ended March 31.
Mourdock raised $163,000 and had $122,000 left to spend.  The senator is being targeted by out-of-state groups. Staff
members of  FreedomWorks , a Washington-based group that is
mobilizing Tea Party organizations, have visited the state three
times to plot Lugar’s defeat. The  National Republican Trust PAC ,
which favors limited government, endorsed Mourdock and plans to
pour money into the race. Chris Chocola, the president of the
conservative  Club for Growth , on April 19 said Lugar should
retire.  ‘Changing Times’  “Some of the antagonism he’s demonstrated to the Tea Party
movement reflect somebody who’s not attuned to the changing
times,” said Sal Russo, chief strategist for the  Tea Party
Express . Lugar and Senator  Olympia Snowe  of  Maine  are the
group’s top two Republican targets in 2012, he said.  Peter Emigh, the Republican chairman in Hamilton County,
Indiana, said Lugar will be tough to beat.  “What’s the mother’s milk in politics? Money,” said
Emigh, who hasn’t endorsed anyone. “Who’s got the name
recognition? Lugar.”  The party chairman in Fulton County, Chad Hartzler, said
some of Lugar’s recent votes are of concern and it may be time
for a change. “We need a senator who reflects the values of
Indiana voters,” Hartzler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  