-- 
Mumbai’s Home Sales Drop to Two-Year Low as Unsold Units Climb to a Record

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-04-27T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/mumbai-s-home-sales-drop-to-two-year-low-as-unsold-units-climb-to-a-record.html
Mumbai home sales dropped to a two-
year low in the first quarter as record prices and  interest
rates  at the highest since 2008 crimped demand, increasing the
number of unsold units to a record, according to Liases Foras
Real Estate Rating & Research Pvt.  Sales in Mumbai,  India ’s most expensive  property market ,
fell to 9.09 million square feet in the three months ended
March, 14 percent lower than the December quarter and the lowest
since the first quarter of 2009, Mumbai-based Pankaj Kapoor,
founder of  Liases Foras  said. Unsold stock climbed to 105
million square feet, while the weighted average price of homes
rose to a record 9,234 rupees ($208) a square foot.  “This clearly shows the inefficiency in the market, that
at higher prices there are no buyers,” Kapoor said in an
interview yesterday. “Either prices need to correct or the
situation could get worse.” Mumbai’s residential property
market will stagnate over the next couple of years until prices
decline to match affordability and income levels rise, he said.  Sales fell to 57.47 billion rupees in the three months, a
27 percent drop from the December quarter and the lowest in two
years, according to Liases Foras, a real estate research company
whose clients include  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , India’s
largest mortgage lender.  The nation’s real estate industry is expected to face
“large-scale distress” amid rising borrowing costs and
shrinking access to credit that may force developers into fire
sales for assets, according to Knight Frank LLP.  Unaffordable Prices  Prices have become unaffordable in cities like Mumbai and
Delhi, Mark Matthews, a Singapore-based strategist at Macquarie
Group Ltd.,  Australia ’s biggest investment bank, said in an
interview on April 26. Prices will have to decline or developers
won’t be able to sell their projects, he said.  India’s central bank increased interest rates for the
eighth time in a year after raising its inflation forecast twice
in three months. The  Reserve Bank  of India last month raised the
repurchase rate to 6.75 percent from 6.5 percent and boosted the
reverse repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 5.75 percent.  Sales in Delhi and its surrounding areas have climbed 32
percent to 27 million square feet in the quarter, compared with
the previous three months, while unsold units are at a record
194 million square feet, Liases Foras said.  The weighted average selling price dropped to 2,673 rupees
a square feet, 1.7 percent lower than the December quarter as
more affordable housing was sold in areas such as Noida and
Greater Noida, near Delhi, Kapoor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  