-- 
UPS Gain in Overnight Deliveries Shows U.S. Economic Confidence

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-04-27T04:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/ups-sees-gains-in-overnight-deliveries-as-sign-of-u-s-economic-expansion.html
Gains in overnight shipments at
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , the two largest
package-delivery companies, show consumers and businesses are
willing to pay for faster deliveries as the economy expands.  Average daily volume for UPS’s next-day air packages “grew
at a mid-single digit rate,” overshadowing a drop in ground
delivery for the quarter ended March 31 from a year earlier,
data from the Atlanta-based company showed yesterday. Such
growth in premium overnight air packages is a sign of economic
confidence, according to Chief Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn.  UPS’s results echoed data from FedEx issued almost six
weeks ago that showed average daily volume for U.S. overnight
deliveries at the Memphis-based carrier rose 2.4 percent to 1.22
million boxes in the quarter ended Feb. 28 from a year earlier.  Growth in premium overnight service from the two
competitors indicates the U.S. is in a “consistent and steady
expansion period,” said Charles Clowdis, managing director of
transportation advisory services at IHS Global Insight, a
forecasting firm in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “That is an
excellent sign there is confidence in the economy. People are
willing to pay up for faster, premium service even though higher
energy prices have resurfaced this year.”  The value of goods shipped by UPS on any given day is
equivalent to about 6 percent of U.S. gross domestic product,
according to the company.  Economy Improving  “We’ve been pleased with the package component of our
next-day air service, and that’s really reflecting some
increased velocity of the core economy,” including
manufacturing, Kuehn said yesterday in a telephone interview.  The gains in volume are consistent with the  Federal
Reserve ’s assessment of the economy in its April 13 Beige Book
report. The central bankers cited “upbeat” reports focusing on
the near-term outlook and said the 12 Fed districts indicated
that “economic activity generally continued to improve since
the last report.”  “In the U.S. domestic segment, we expect average daily
volume to increase approximately 2 percent for the second
quarter with continued strengthening in the second half of
2011,” Kuehn said yesterday on a conference call to discuss
earnings. “For the full year, next-day air and ground are
expected to grow at a similar pace.”  UPS shares rose 0.9 percent yesterday, or 66 cents, to
$74.30 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 Afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  