-- 
Turkish Lira May Advance 7% After Election on Investment Grade, HSBC Says

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-04-27T11:53:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/turkish-lira-may-advance-7-after-election-on-investment-grade-hsbc-says.html
The lira may gain about 7 percent
by year-end as  Turkey ’s ruling party leads polls before June’s
general election, making credit rating upgrades likely,
according to the head of HSBC Asset Management in Istanbul.  The lira may strengthen to 1.75 versus the central bank’s
dollar-euro basket this year, Chief Executive Officer Namik Aksel said in an interview. The lira traded at 1.8775 versus the
basket as of 2:47 p.m. in Istanbul.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s AK Party, which has
been in power since 2002, has 51 percent public support, the
Sabah newspaper said this month, citing a survey by research
company Andy-Ar. Turkey, rated one level below investment grade
by  Fitch Ratings  and two steps below by Moody’s Investors
Service and  Standard & Poor’s , has a positive outlook from all
three companies.  “It is a strong possibility that we will see a rating
upgrade a short time after elections,” Aksel, who manages 2.5
billion liras ($1.6 billion), said in Istanbul on April 25.
“There are many new pension funds that will come here when two
rating agencies upgrade Turkey,” with Fitch likely to lift
Turkey’s ranking first, he said.  Foreign investor holdings of Turkish bonds reached a record
$43.5 billion the week ended April 15, according to central bank
data on April 21.  “Putting aside political views, the markets favor strong,
stable, single-party rule,” Ata Doganoglu, a trader at
Istanbul-based broker Ekspres Invest, said in e-mailed comments
on April 25.  The euro and the  U.S. dollar  have equal weightings in the
Turkish central bank’s currency basket.  Appreciation  The lira is likely to appreciate to 1.51 per dollar and
2.19 per euro by year-end from 1.5218 per dollar and 2.2335 per
euro today, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
Turkish currency’s fourth-quarter forecasted total return versus
the dollar is 6.1 percent, second only to the Peruvian sol among
more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Turkish equities, including banking stocks, are
attractively valued among developing nations, with the ISE
National 100 Index price-to-earnings ratio at 11.8 compared with
13.4 for the MSCI EM Emerging Markets Index. Lenders in Turkey
have a higher return on equity than the emerging-market average
even after policy makers increased  reserve requirements  three
times this year to contain loan growth and curb the current-
account deficit.  ‘Buy Turkish Equities’  The country’s benchmark stock index advanced 3 percent this
year. A gauge of Turkey’s banks, which account for about 45
percent of the benchmark’s weighting, has fallen 1.6 percent so
far in 2011.  “We tell investors in  London ,  New York  to buy Turkish
equities. Turkish companies were slightly expensive as of
end-2010, but they have corrected this promptly,” Aksel said.
“Relatively speaking Turkey is cheap, banking stocks are still
attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  