-- 
Uruguay May Raise Reserve Requirements to Fight Inflation, Bank Chief Says

-- B y   L u c i a   B a l d o m i r
-- 
2011-04-27T16:40:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/uruguay-may-raise-reserve-requirements-to-fight-inflation-bank-chief-says.html
Uruguay  may raise reserve
requirements for banks to help slow inflation toward the
government’s target, central bank President Mario Bergara said.  Policy makers can’t rule out an increase in reserve
requirements, which were last raised in 2008, Bergara said in an
interview at Montevideo’s World Trade Center. Consumer prices in
the $40 billion economy rose 1.42 percent last month, the
biggest monthly jump in four years, as high commodity prices and
near-record low unemployment fuel inflation pressures, he said.  Policy makers are going to wait for the April inflation
report, due May 3, before deciding whether to adopt so-called
macro-prudential measures, Bergara said. The central bank raised
its benchmark interest rate by one percentage point to 7.5
percent at its last meeting March 23 as inflation exceeded the 7
percent upper limit of its target range.  “We´re waiting for the April inflation figures to see with
the economy ministry if we are going to take other measures to
combat inflation,” Bergara said.  Policy makers don’t plan on meeting to discuss interest
rate policy ahead of their June 23 quarterly rate decision,
Bergara said.  Accelerating Prices  Uruguay’s consumer prices rose in March 1.42 percent from
February, led by higher food and beverages, transport and
housing costs. Prices increased by 8.17 percent from a year
earlier, the most since January 2009, according to the national
statistics institute.  Beginning in June, the bank’s 12-month inflation target
will fall to between 4 percent and 6 percent compared with
between 3 percent and 7 percent now. The decision in 2009 to
narrow the target range has helped contain inflation and
inflation expectations, he said.  “It was quite difficult to foresee the crisis when we set
the target range´´ of 4 to 6 percent, he said.   “If we would
have kept the previous target range inflation and inflation
expectations would be higher today.´´  Bergara said there are no signs that an increase in
consumption is causing imbalances in the economy. Salaries are
likely to continue rising in recent years as Uruguay attracts
more foreign direct investment and seeks to boost productivity
of a fully-employed  labor force , he said.  ”There´s no consumption or real estate boom,´´ said
Bergara, who has a doctorate in economics from the  University of
California , Berkeley.  ‘Hitting the Duck´  Global commodity prices may start to fall toward the end of
the year, helping policy makers cool the economy and meet their
inflation target, he said.  ”The objective is not hitting the duck, but providing a
sign of convergence,´´ he said.  Analysts expect prices to rise 7.51 percent this year,
according to the median of a central bank survey of 12
economists, banks and pension administrators.  Bergara, 46, started working at the central bank’s economic
studies department in 1990, becoming department head in 1998. In
2005 he was appointed Deputy Economy Minister and in 2008 was
named head of the central bank by former President Tabare Vazquez.  Reserve Requirements  Yesterday, Economy Minister Fernando Lorenzo said that the
government will work with the central bank to identify ”macro-
prudential´´ measures to help combat inflation. He did not
provide details.  Bergara´s predecessor, Walter Cancela, in 2008 raised
reserve requirements for local banks after inflation accelerated
to 9 percent. Bergara said that any decision to raise reserve
levels would take into account the impact on the profitability
of local banks.  While policy makers remain concerned about the strength of
the peso, which has rallied 22 percent against the dollar over
the past two years, the greater risk to Uruguay´s economy today
is from inflation, Bergara said.  Ratings agencies have been slow to reinstate Uruguay´s
investment grade rating, which the country of 3.3 million lost
in the aftermath of neighboring  Argentina ´s $95 billion default
in 2001, Bergara said. Bond prices show investors are already
treating the country like other top-grade credits, he said.  ”If Uruguay were the size of Russia or  Brazil  we´d
already be investment grade,´´ Bergara said.  ”It´s not an
issue I lose sleep over, but of course it´s always good to be
part of the club.´´  Investment Grade  Bondholders demand 180 basis points in extra yield to own
Uruguay’s dollar-securities rather than  U.S. Treasuries , the
same as the spread for higher-rated Brazil, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. A year ago, investors demanded 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, more for Uruguayan securities
compared with Brazil’s.  Uruguay’s dollar-denominated bonds returned 11.5 percent
over the past year, compared with the 7.6 percent gain in
Indonesian securities, which share the same BB+  credit rating  at
 Standard & Poor’s , according to data compiled by JPMorgan.  For the same period, Brazilian debt returned 7.8 percent,
while  Colombia ’s advanced 9.8 percent, according to JPMorgan’s
EMBI-Global Diversified index. Both countries are rated BBB-,
the lowest investment grade, and one step above Uruguay’s.  Jorge Ottavianelli, the financial services superintendent
at the bank, said the share of deposits held by Argentines and
other foreigners in Uruguay has fallen to 20 percent of the
total $18 billion from 47 percent since 2002 as domestic savings
has increased.  ”We learned some lessons from  the crisis,´´ he said in an
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Baldomir in Montevideo at 
 lbaldomir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  