-- 
Vale Brasil Sea Monster Sends Shipping Returns Plummeting: Freight Markets

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-04-27T23:27:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/vale-brasil-sea-monster-sends-shipping-returns-plummeting-freight-markets.html
The biggest  iron-ore  carrier ever
built arrives in Brazil next week, a sign of strengthening
demand for commodities that means record profit for  Vale SA (VALE5)  and
a slump in earnings for shipping companies.  The Vale Brasil, almost as big as the Bank of America Tower
in New York, is scheduled to be at  Rio de Janeiro  on May 3,
tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show. It is the first of a
fleet of 19 such vessels that Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, is building to supply China, which buys about 60
percent of all shipments of the raw material used to make steel.  For Rio de Janeiro-based Vale, the new ships ensure it can
export more ore at a time when shortages drove prices 84 percent
higher in a year. For ship owners, it worsens a glut that caused
returns to drop 66 percent since January. A measure of the
combined earnings of the 12-member Bloomberg Dry Ships index
will fall 23 percent this year, with  Genco Shipping & Trading
Ltd. (GNK)  reporting a 75 percent decline in profit, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “These sea monsters are going to prolong the slump,” said
Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA in
Oslo whose recommendations on shares of shipping companies
returned 27 percent in six months. “It’s going to change the
way iron ore flows to China, and it will take longer until the
market rebalances,” he said, predicting some rates in the spot,
or single-voyage, market may not be profitable until 2015.  Busiest Route  Vale’s Chinamaxes, named for the customer they are being
built to serve, will displace ships competing for the industry’s
single-biggest cargo on its busiest route. The ore is currently
hauled mostly by capesizes, which use shipping lanes around
 South Africa ’s Cape of Good Hope and  Chile ’s Cape Horn.  Returns for owners of capesizes, which have less than half
the carrying capacity of a Chinamax, are at $6,755 a day,
according to the  Baltic Exchange  in  London , which publishes
daily rates for more than 50 maritime routes. The assessment is
for contracts in the  spot market . Ship owners also lease their
vessels on long-term contracts at fixed rates.  Owners of capesizes valued at $60 million need $25,000 a
day to cover expenses such as crew and financing, according to
HSBC Shipping Services Ltd. Variable financing costs mean
companies have different break-even rates, and while the cost of
a new capesize averaged $59 million over the last decade, it
reached $97 million in 2007, according to Clarkson Research
Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  Forward-freight agreements, traded by brokers and used to
bet on or hedge future transportation costs, anticipate rates no
higher than $20,268 a day through 2016, Baltic Exchange data
show. Rates are volatile, rising or falling 17 percent or more
in each of the last 12 quarters.  Global Recession  Vale ordered its Chinamax fleet from Cayman Islands-based
 China  Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group and Seoul-based Daewoo
Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co., Clarkson data show.  The mining company wants to better manage its costs after
capesize rates averaged $116,054 a day in 2007, up from $11,928
in 2002. Returns slumped from a peak of $233,988 in June 2008 as
the worst global recession since World War II cut the number of
cargoes and a growing glut of ships were produced at yards in
China,  Japan ,  South Korea  and the  Philippines .  There are 1,085 capesizes in service, with an order book
equal to 40 percent of the capacity of the fleet, according to
Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay, which compiles data on
ships and ports. The average capesize can carry about 170,000
tons of cargo, compared with 400,000 tons for a Chinamax.  Vale’s fleet will have a combined capacity of 11.4 million
deadweight tons when complete, according to Clarkson data. That
compares with 217.1 million deadweight tons for the capesize
fleet. China imported about 10.9 million metric tons of iron ore
a month from  Brazil  last year, customs data show.  ‘Doesn’t Make Sense’  “They wanted to take freight into their own hands, but
freight costs are incredibly low right now,” said  Jeffrey Landsberg , president of Commodore Research in New York. “They
made the decision when capes were earning over $100,000 a day or
$200,000 a day, but when you have capes at $6,000 a day, it
doesn’t make sense for a miner to be an owner too.”  Vale’s strategy may save money over the two decades or more
the vessels will operate. Costs on the route to Qingdao in China
from Tubarao in Brazil have risen or fallen at least 29 percent
every year in the last decade, Baltic Exchange data show.  Global trade in iron ore will advance 7 percent to 1.06
billion tons this year, from 450 million tons in 2001, London-
based Clarkson estimates. About 90 percent of global trade moves
by sea, according to the Round Table of International Shipping
Associations.  Steelmaking Nation  While China, the world’s biggest steelmaking nation, sought
to curb inflation through four interest-rate increases since
October, its economy will still expand 9.5 percent this year,
according to the median of eight economists’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. The U.S. will grow 2.9 percent and the euro region
1.7 percent, the estimates show.  Iron-ore prices will average a record $164 a ton this year,
up from $115 in 2007, Sydney-based Macquarie Group Ltd. said in
a report in January. Global steel demand will expand to 1.44
billion tons in 2012, from 1.28 billion tons in 2010, with 38
percent of the increase coming from China, the Brussels-based
World Steel Association estimates.  China accounted for 43 percent of Vale’s iron-ore exports
by volume last year, and the company has said it will spend $720
million on shipping this year to serve Asian clients. Vale will
report adjusted net income of $25.1 billion this year, compared
with $17.1 billion in 2010, according to the mean of nine
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Estimated Earnings  While shares of the company fell 4.6 percent in Brazilian
trading this year, every single one of the 19 analysts tracking
Vale rate it a “buy.” It is trading at about 7.8 times
estimated earnings, compared with a peak of 22 times in November
2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That contrasts with this year’s 10 percent drop in the
Bloomberg Dry Ships Index, now trading at 11 times forecast
earnings. A measure of combined earnings per share across the
index will drop 23 percent this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg using analysts’ forecasts.  Nine of the 12 members of the index will report lower
profit or losses this year, the data show. Genco, based in  New
York , will earn 81.2 cents a share this year, down from $4.07
last year, the mean of 11 analysts’ estimates shows. The shares
fell 41 percent since the start of January. Capesizes account
for about 40 percent of its fleet capacity, company data show.  Index-Linked Rates  Genco operates mostly in the time-charter rather than spot
market and has a combination of fixed and index-linked rates in
those agreements, Chief Financial Officer John C. Wobensmith
told a conference in New York on March 22. Six of its nine
capesize time charters expire this year, and the remainder in
2012, company  data  published that day show.  Delays in the delivery of new vessels and accelerated
scrapping means the fleet may not expand as quickly as expected,
Wobensmith told the conference.  Even the rebound to $20,000 a day in returns anticipated by
forward-freight agreements would still mean a return on capital
of no more than 4 percent for a capesize costing $55 million,
according to Andreas Vergottis, the Hong Kong-based research
director at Tufton Oceanic Ltd., which manages the world’s
biggest shipping hedge fund.  “The first of these ships loading in Brazil is a seminal
moment,” said Nigel Prentis, head of research at HSBC Shipping
Services in London. “We’ve seen a reduction in the amount of
spot cargoes coming out of Brazil. The market should be fairly
nervous about the introduction of these ships.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  