-- 
Volkswagen Posts Record Quarterly Operating Profit on Audi Demand in China

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-04-27T15:47:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/volkswagen-first-quarter-profit-triples-on-china-sales-of-audi-vw-models.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s biggest
automaker, reported record operating profit in the first quarter
as the Audi and VW brands attracted more Chinese customers.  Earnings before interest and tax more than tripled to 2.91
billion euros ($4.27 billion) from 848 million euros a year
earlier, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company said. Profit beat
the 2.08 billion-euro average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Sales rose 31 percent to 37.5 billion euros.  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  reiterated today
that rising demand in  China  will help boost revenue and Ebit
this year. VW’s Chinese joint ventures, which aren’t included in
the group’s operating profit, contributed an additional 557
million euros in first-quarter earnings.  “It’s a very strong result driven by a strong top line
that benefited from a strong mix” of more high-end models, said
Adam Hull, a London-based analyst with WestLB who recommends
buying the shares. The outlook is “typically cautious.”  Volkswagen rose 5.80 euros, or 4.8 percent, to 126.50 euros
at the 5:30 p.m. close of Frankfurt trading to reach the highest
price since Feb. 14. The shares have gained 4.2 percent this
year, valuing the carmaker at 56.2 billion euros.  VW, which is merging with sports-car manufacturer Porsche
SE, said deliveries rose 14 percent to 1.99 million vehicles in
the quarter, led by demand for Audi’s revamped A8 sedan and new
A7 Sportback and VW’s Tiguan compact sport-utility vehicle. Net
income increased to 1.6 billion euros from 423 million euros a
year earlier.  Targeting Toyota  Deliveries will grow 5 percent in 2011 from 7.2 million
vehicles in 2010, the carmaker has said. VW is counting on
growth in China, as well as  Brazil ,  Russia  and  India , to help
the company surpass  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as the world’s biggest
carmaker by 2018. VW’s first-quarter deliveries in China, the
world’s largest auto market, climbed 20 percent.  Audi’s Ebit more than doubled to 1.12 billion euros,
contributing 38 percent of group operating profit. The VW
brand’s operating profit also more than doubled to 1.06 billion
euros. The Seat and Bentley brands both narrowed their losses in
the quarter.  “Volkswagen is continuing to power ahead,” Winterkorn
said in a statement. “Volkswagen shifted into the fast lane in
2010 and that’s exactly where we intend to stay this year.”  Porsche Profit  Porsche’s carmaking division, of which VW owns 49.9
percent, today reported first-quarter earnings before interest
and tax “more than doubled” to 496 million euros after a
revamp of the Cayenne SUV boosted demand for the model. Sales
rose 10 percent to 2.28 billion euros, the Stuttgart, Germany-
based manufacturer said today in a  statement .  VW took a charge of 400 million euros in the first quarter
on options it holds to buy the remaining stake in the maker of
the 911 sports car, Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch
said today on a conference call. The lower valuation of the
options was related to interest-rate changes, he said, adding
that the company is “satisfied” with the pace of integration.  VW said in November that it will invest 51.6 billion euros
through 2015 on plants, vehicles and developing the carmaker’s
nine brands worldwide. The spending doesn’t include China, the
manufacturer’s biggest market, where VW’s joint ventures will
invest another 10.6 billion euros.  Audi, which aims to topple  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  as
the global luxury-car leader by 2015, boosted first-quarter
deliveries 21 percent to 321,175 vehicles. The Ingolstadt,
Germany-based brand will roll out 13 new or upgraded models this
year, including the redesigned A6 sedan and Q3 compact SUV.  SUV Production Growth  Volkswagen announced plans a week ago to expand production
of the Tiguan at the main Wolfsburg plant to 1,000 vehicles
daily from the current 700 to meet higher demand. VW is
operating special shifts “in many locations” to meet growing
higher customer orders, Winterkorn said last month.  Volkswagen today rejected a report by  Germany ’s Manager
Magazin earlier this month linking it to a potential acquisition
of  Isuzu Motors Ltd. (7202)  The German automaker is interested in
potential cooperation on parts, but taking a stake in the
Japanese manufacturer is “not on the agenda,” Poetsch said.  Porsche raised 4.9 billion euros in a rights offering
earlier this month to cut debt in advance of the VW merger. The
combination of the two, originally scheduled to happen in the
second half, will probably be delayed until 2012 because of
legal investigations into share-price manipulation allegations
affecting the sports-car manufacturer, Porsche said Feb. 23.
Poetsch said today that there are no changes to the company’s
expectations on the timing of the merger.  Porsche and VW agreed to combine in August 2009 following a
failed attempt by the Stuttgart-based sports-car maker to
acquire its larger rival. Investors claim Porsche misled them by
denying through much of 2008 that it intended to acquire VW.
Porsche said in October of that year it controlled most of VW’s
common stock, causing the shares to surge as short-sellers raced
to cover their positions. Porsche has denied the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  