-- 
Warner Says Debt Plan Weighs $3 in Cuts to $1 in Taxes Raised

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-04-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/warner-says-debt-plan-weighs-3-in-cuts-to-1-in-taxes-raised.html
Senator  Mark Warner  said his
bipartisan group of six senators working to strike a deal to cut
the national debt is considering a plan to slash $3 in federal
spending for every $1 of  tax revenue  it raises.  While the emerging proposal by the so-called Gang of Six
won’t increase tax rates, the Virginia Democrat said it will
include scrapping some tax breaks and limiting others, such as
shrinking to $500,000 from $1 million the size of mortgages on
which interest payments can be written off or scaling back
deductions for charitable giving.  Details of the plan -- still under negotiation and being
drafted for release as early as next week, according to a person
familiar with the talks -- are scarce, given the group’s
secretive discussions. Yet Warner said it will involve spending
cuts on health care, defense, agriculture and other domestic
programs, along with changes to Medicare, Medicaid and Social
Security.  The plan is going “to have enough pain in there that
everybody’s going to be mad, a bit,” Warner, 56, told
constituents during a stop in Fredericksburg,  Virginia , last
week, part of a four-day, 150-mile road trip through his state
to talk up the efforts of the lawmakers’ group.  The 3-to-1 ratio of spending cuts to revenue increases --
which mirrors the level President  Barack Obama  proposed in a
speech earlier this month -- may cause pain for Democrats who
have demanded that tax increases be a greater part of any
deficit-cutting effort. It will also prove a hard proposal to
sell to some Republicans, who oppose tax increases.  Pressing the Urgency  Warner said in an interview that the lawmakers are
discussing whether to fold their debt-cutting plan into the 2012
budget blueprint. On his tour of Virginia last week, he pressed
the urgency of the effort to shave $4 trillion off the $14
trillion  U.S. debt , saying it is linked to a looming vote over
raising the nation’s $14.3 trillion legal debt limit.  “There’s a window now, and at some point, if we go back to
business as usual, Democratic plan versus Republican plan, I see
a train wreck happening,” he told health-care workers at the
Spotsylvania Regional Medical Center in Fredericksburg, about 50
miles south of Washington.  Any debt plan will likely need backing from both parties to
get through Congress, giving Warner’s Gang of Six -- the only
bipartisan group of lawmakers working to craft a measure --
outsized influence. While Obama and Republican Representative
 Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , who heads the House Budget Committee,
are promoting “serious” proposals, both include poison pills
for the opposing party, Warner said later in the interview.  ‘Not Going to Happen’  Ryan’s proposal would cut the debt by more than $4 trillion 
over a decade without raising taxes or cutting defense spending. 
It would largely privatize Medicare, cap Medicaid and reduce 
other expenditures to levels that, “at least even privately,
everybody acknowledges that’s not going to happen,” Warner
said,  Obama’s plan to cut $4 trillion over 12 years includes a
tax increase on high earners. While Warner supports that idea,
he said it stands little chance of enactment. A Bloomberg
National Poll last month found that 59 percent of the public
backs repealing the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts for households
earning more than $250,000 annually, while 37 percent oppose
doing so.  There’s not much time to bridge the gap: The Treasury
Department says the government will reach its legal debt limit
by May 16 and run out of options for avoiding default no later
than about July 8. And  Standard & Poor’s  revised the nation’s
credit outlook from “stable” to “negative” last week on
concern that policy makers won’t be able to forge a debt
agreement.  ‘A Grinding Halt’  “If Congress does not raise the debt limit some time over
the next 60, 90 days and America defaults, you will see  interest
rates  spike 3 or 4 points at least,” Warner told constituents
at the hospital. “This economy will not just slow down, it will
come to a grinding halt.”  For all the debate about the deficit in Washington, bond
market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government
was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago, even though Treasury
data show the amount of marketable debt outstanding has risen to
more than $9 trillion from about $4.3 trillion in mid-2007.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note is below the
average of about 7 percent since 1980 and the average of 5.48
percent in 1998 through 2001, the last time the U.S. had a
budget surplus, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  That doesn’t detract from Warner’s sense of urgency.  In the interview, Warner, a first-term senator who co-
founded a company that is now part of Overland Park, Kansas-
based  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and served as Virginia’s governor from
2002 to 2006, said his group must act before the polarizing
politics surrounding the debt slam the door shut on a
compromise.  Quick Action  “The sooner we can get out our plan the better, but it has
to be fully thought through,” he said, because it will face
“immediate scrutiny.”  The time pressure may also help build momentum, Warner
said, since lawmakers are eager to find a way out of the debt
dilemma.  “With the debt limit, you don’t get to wait until the 11th
hour -- the markets react beforehand,” he said. “A lot of
members, I think, are saying, ‘How do we get ourselves out of
this box?’ I think that will help us.”  As voters listened to his debt talk and then passed a
microphone, they pressed him about ways to rein in  government
spending . One prefaced her question by saying, “Thank you for
being a centrist in a sea of extremists,” to which Warner
quickly replied, “Which means I get arrows from both sides.”  Calling the Gang  As he traveled through Virginia in a Nissan Sentra with
three young aides to meet with constituents during a
congressional break, he spent hours on his cell phone with other
senators in the Gang of Six, co-led by Republican Saxby Chambliss of  Georgia .  The group also includes Republicans  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma 
and Mike Crapo of  Idaho  and Democrats Kent Conrad of  North
Dakota , the Budget Committee chairman, and Dick Durbin of
 Illinois , the Senate majority whip.  While the six have generally been stingy with details of
their plan, they have made it known that they are basing their
work on the 2010 recommendations of the leaders of Obama’s
bipartisan debt commission -- former White House chief of staff
Erskine Bowles, a Democrat, and former Senator  Alan Simpson , a
Wyoming Republican.  People familiar with their proposal say it will likely
include a set of benchmarks and deadlines for debt reduction,
with automatic spending cuts and tax increases if Congress fails
to enact the changes necessary to meet the targets.  Still, Warner said the group knows that many lawmakers
won’t support a compromise that fails to also make substantial
reductions up front.  He said failure to raise the debt limit would “light the
fire that burned down the house, but there are other members
who’ve made quite clear that the only way they’ll vote for
something is if there’s some level of down payment, so we’re
working through that.”  The gang’s Republicans are pushing just as hard for a deal.  “The country can’t afford for us not to have an
agreement,” Coburn said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” on April
24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  