-- 
Royal Wedding Vantage Points, Camden Rock: Great London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-04-27T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/wedding-vantage-points-buy-charles-s-scent-camden-crawl-london-weekend.html
Not invited to the royal wedding?
No worries: The happy couple can be seen tying the knot on an
array of big screens across London tomorrow.  Trafalgar Square and Hyde Park will have monitors showing
Queen Elizabeth II’s grandson marrying  Kate Middleton . Stalls
will supply onlookers with refreshments.  Those seeking to avoid the predicted rain showers can watch
the event in restaurants and bars. As a bonus, Galvin at
Windows, on the 28th floor of the Hilton on Park Lane, offers
aerial views of  Buckingham Palace . You can wave at the pilots
during the 1:30 p.m.  Royal Air Force flypast . The special menu
is 95 pounds ($157). Information:  http://bit.ly/g2J79a  or
+44-20-7208-4021.  For an exotic alternative, a pan-Asian brunch is served
from 11 a.m. at Gilgamesh -- the larger-than-life north London
restaurant. If your name is William and Kate (and you can prove
it with photo ID), you get a free glass of champagne.  The bijou Berkeley Hotel offers an upmarket take on the
traditional street party. For 48.50 pounds (champagne glass
included), you’ll get a royal tea on two long tables adorned
with bunting, themed napkins and flags, even as you watch the
nuptials. Information: +44-20-7201-1619 or  http://bit.ly/h8V0Yo .  Saturday  The day after, you can indulge in a spot of stately retail
therapy in stores catering to the royals. They’re easy to find:
Each has a royal warrant stamped on.  Prince Charles, the groom’s father, gets his cheese from
Paxton and Whitfield, on 93 Jermyn Street. One unctuous favorite
bearing his seal is Stinking Bishop (no offense to the prelates
marrying the couple in Westminster Abbey) -- named after the
Stinking Bishop Pear alcohol that the cheese was immersed in.
Information:  http://www.paxtonandwhitfield.co.uk/ .  To smell like Prince Charles did at the wedding, you can
splash on his scent: Blenheim Bouquet, from  Penhaligon’s 
perfumers -- a blend of citrus, lemongrass, pine, black pepper,
and cedarwood (52 pounds for a 50 ml eau de toilette):
 http://www.penhaligons.com .  The Queen’s chocolatier,  Charbonnel et Walker , is discreet
about her preferences. Still, royal watchers say that she likes
violet creams -- fondants infused with violet oil and garnished
with a crystallized petal (18.50 pounds for a small 185-gram
box). Information:  http://www.charbonnel.co.uk/ .  Saturday Afternoon  The Southbank Centre has a free exhibition at the  Hayward
Gallery  (through May 2) displaying contemporary artists’
representations of the royal family. Irreverent examples: a 10-
pound note showing the Queen’s face with a red clown’s nose
drawn over it, and royal-couple lookalikes cavorting in bed.
Information:  http://www.southbankcentre.co.uk .  As an alternative, there’s the Museum of Brands, in Notting
Hill, which has programmed a timely exhibition on royal wedding
souvenirs dating back to Queen Victoria’s in 1840. Information:
 http://www.museumofbrands.com/ .  Saturday Night  Even the stage has a royally themed production of sorts.
“Betty Blue Eyes” tells the story of a bleak town in northern
 England  that’s revving up to celebrate the 1947 wedding of the
then Princess Elizabeth.  When a chiropodist is kept off the guest list, he steals a
pig named Betty that’s been illegally reared for the banquet.
The animatronic Betty is cute, and voiced at the end by singer
 Kylie Minogue , no less. The musical is at the Novello Theatre.
Information:  http://www.bettyblueeyesthemusical.com .  Sunday  The  Gaymers Camden Crawl  offers an escape from the Royals.  The musical marathon, now in its 10th year, is staged at
more than 40 pubs and clubs across the north London district
considered the home of British “indie rock.”  “The bar crawl to end all bar crawls” includes 250 acts
such as the Lemonheads, Killing Joke, British Sea Power,
Razorlight, the View, Guillemots and Saint Etienne. A 68.60
pound ticket gives access to the mostly small venues.  Information:  http://www.thecamdencrawl.com .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London  at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 