-- 
WellPoint Raises Forecast After First-Quarter Earnings Beat Estimates

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-04-27T20:22:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/wellpoint-raises-forecast-after-first-quarter-earnings-beat-estimates.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the largest U.S.
insurer by enrollment, raised its 2011 earnings forecast as the
number of new customers climbed and the company’s spending on
medical care was less than expected.  Full-year profit will be at least $6.70 a share, including
10 cents a share from investment gains, the Indianapolis-based
company said in a statement today. The insurer in March had
forecast profit of at least $6.30. First-quarter net income of
$2.44 a share beat the $1.86-a-share average estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  WellPoint joined  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest U.S.
insurer by sales, and Humana Inc. in raising its full-year
target after the impact of new government mandates was less than
expected. WellPoint spent 82.1 percent of revenue from premiums
on care in the quarter, the first under rules that require
insurers to maintain a medical-loss ratio of at least 80 percent
without paying rebates.  The insurer’s results “suggest that the company has more
breathing room” under the new rules than previously expected,
more opportunity to improve margins,” said  Jason Gurda , an
analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. in New York. “I would not say
reform was a big plus for insurers, just that its negative
impact appears less than feared.”  WellPoint rose $2.57, or 3.5 percent, to $75.54 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock exchange composite trading today. The shares
have gained 35 percent in the past 12 months.  First-quarter net income climbed 5.7 percent to $926.6
million on revenue of $14.9 billion. The company reported net
income of $876.8 million, or $1.96 a share, a year earlier.  Health-Care Overhaul  Under the health-care overhaul signed into law in 2010, the
ratio of medical spending required is 85 percent for employer-
sponsored plans or 80 percent for individual policyholders to
avoid paying rebates.  WellPoint enrolled 875,000 new members since the end of
2010, with 727,000 members in national employer-funded plans.
The number was also helped by increases under government-
sponsored programs such as Medicare, the U.S. plan covering the
elderly and disabled and Medicaid, the federal-state plan for
low-income Americans. A gain of 52,000 in Medicaid included a
new contract with the state of  Indiana  that began in January.  Competitive Pricing  The insurer benefited from a move by national employers
to narrow their offering of plans to a few with the broadest
networks, said Kristin Binns, a WellPoint spokeswoman. The
insurer’s national accounts grew because of WellPoint’s network
offerings and competitive pricing, she said in a telephone
interview.  WellPoint’s medical-loss ratio was less than analysts
expected. Ana Gupte, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
had estimated a ratio of about 82.7 percent, 60 basis points
higher than WellPoint’s result. Gupte said the company’s
earnings per share also benefited from accelerated share
repurchases.  “Despite the headwinds from reform, they are able to beat
expectations which have been conservative,” Gupte said in an e-
mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in  New York  at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  