-- 
Wheat, Corn, Soybeans Decline as Investors Await Outcome of Fed Meeting

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-04-27T12:44:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/wheat-corn-soybeans-decline-as-investors-await-outcome-of-fed-meeting.html
Wheat and soybeans fell for a
second day in Chicago as investors awaited the outcome of a U.S.
Federal Reserve meeting that may affect borrowing costs and
investor appetite for commodities. Corn dropped.  The central bank probably will announce few, if any, policy
changes, economist  Dennis Gartman  said in his daily newsletter.
The end of the Fed’s second round of bond-buying, known as
quantitative easing or QE2, is approaching in June.  “There’s been profit-taking, while most investors are
taking a wait-and-see stance to watch the outcome from the” Fed
meeting, Han Sung Min, a broker at  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  Futures
Co., said by phone from  Seoul . “Like other commodities, the
grains and oilseed complex cannot be free from this policy
meeting.”  Wheat for July delivery lost 16.75 cents, or 2 percent, to
$8.3025 a bushel by 1:15 p.m. London time on the Chicago Board
of Trade. The grain has jumped 69 percent in the past year.
Milling wheat for May delivery declined 5.75 euros, or 2.3
percent, to 247.75 euros ($363.20) a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in
Paris.  Wheat also may have fallen after  Canada  yesterday said
planting increased 17 percent from a year earlier. Growers will
seed 24.7 million acres with the grain, Ottawa-based  Statistics
Canada  said in a report.  “StatsCanada has this year’s prospective planted acreage
for canola and wheat materially higher than last year,” Gartman
said. “High prices are indeed the best fertiliser for new and
larger crops.”  Too Much Rain  Excessive rains in the Midwest continue to delay planting
of corn, soybeans and wheat, potentially derailing farmers’
plans to boost output, while dry weather in parts of the winter-
wheat growing areas continue to stress crops.  Texas ,  Oklahoma  and southwest  Kansas  are likely to have
“major crop losses” because of prolonged drought and episodes
of hot weather, Telvent DTN Inc. said in a report yesterday.
Heavy rains and storms in eastern and southern Midwest and the
Delta region may bring severe flooding, derailing planting of
spring wheat, corn and soybeans, it said.  “All that’s compounding to reduce production” of wheat in
the U.S., Jay O’Neil, an adviser to the U.S. Grains Council,
said in an interview in  Singapore . “The market is watching the
progress of the crop.”  As of April 24, about 40 percent of the winter-wheat crop
in the U.S. was in poor to very poor condition, up from 38
percent last week, and 6 percent a year ago, the Department of
Agriculture said April 25. In the spring  planting  areas, about 6
percent of the crop has been planted, compared with 5 percent a
week earlier, and 39 percent last year, it said.  Soybeans for July delivery fell 16.25 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $13.73 a bushel in  Chicago , narrowing the past
year’s gain to 38 percent.  Corn for July delivery declined 8.5 cents, or 1.1 percent,
to $7.6425 a bushel. The grain has more than doubled in the past
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  