-- 
Whirlpool’s First-Quarter Profit Rises, Helped by U.S. Energy Tax Credits

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-04-27T20:23:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/whirlpool-s-first-quarter-profit-rises-helped-by-u-s-energy-tax-credits.html
Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , the world’s
largest appliance maker, said first-quarter profit increased 3
percent, helped by an energy tax credit.  Net income rose to $169 million, or $2.17 a share, from
$164 million, or $2.13 a share, a year earlier, the maker of
KitchenAid refrigerators and Maytag washing machines said today
in a statement. Revenue gained 3 percent to $4.4 billion,
surpassing the $4.29 billion predicted by analysts. Profit was
$2.11 a share, excluding some items, topping the $1.16 median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Operating profit declined.  Sales at Whirlpool, based in  Benton Harbor ,  Michigan ,
recovered last year after the company gained market share and
benefited from U.S. tax credits for making energy-efficient
appliances. Jeff Fettig, chairman and chief executive officer,
is also expanding business in emerging markets such as  Brazil ,
with about half of the company’s sales coming from  North America 
last year.  “Our first-quarter results reflect our ongoing cost
reduction efforts and continued innovation investments, which
helped to mitigate significant material cost inflation,” Fettig
said in the statement today.  Whirlpool reaffirmed its profit estimate of between $12 and
$13 a share this year, helped by between $300 million and $350
million in energy tax credits. The company said in February that
it expected to receive $300 million in energy tax credits this
year. Fettig told analysts today that the higher number was
based on “better visibility” after monitoring sales of
qualifying models.  Whirlpool rose 79 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $88.65 at 4:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
are little changed this year.  Research and Development  Whirlpool plans to spend more than $600 million on research
and development and will open a plant and distribution center in
 Tennessee  and a new headquarters in Michigan with $1 billion in
U.S. investment through 2014, Fettig said in a speech in  Detroit 
last month.  Founded a century ago, Whirlpool bought smaller Maytag
Corp. in 2006 for $2.6 billion to compete with appliance makers
in  Asia .  After closing nine factories in North America since the
merger, the company still operates nine plants in the U.S., with
about 17,500 workers, and says 82 percent of the units sold in
the U.S. are domestically made. Whirlpool can claim the tax
credit only for appliances produced in the U.S.  Globally, Whirlpool employs 71,000 people.  Sales at the appliance maker rose 7 percent to $18.4
billion last year after dropping during the housing slump of the
previous two years. In the year-earlier quarter, the company
attributed a rise in revenue to increased productivity.  Tax Rates  Whirlpool had negative effective income tax rates in 2010,
2009 and 2008. Last year, the company reported an income tax
benefit of $64 million and an effective tax rate of negative
10.9 percent, according to company filings. The company expects
a similar tax benefit in 2011, corporate controller Larry Venturelli told analysts today.  The company relies more heavily on the credit than do other
appliance makers such as  Electrolux AB (ELUXB)  and  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
said  Laura Champine , an analyst at Cowen & Co. in New York.  Electrolux, based in  Stockholm , is accruing the credits for
future use against its U.S. tax liability, chief financial
officer Jonas Samuelson told analysts on a call today.  Tax Benefits  “We have the same opportunities for tax benefits that are
quite similar to Whirlpool when it comes to energy tax credit,
however, we can’t realize them to earnings to the same extent,”
he said.  Congress created the appliance manufacturing tax credit in
2005. It was extended for a year in December in a broader tax
law. The congressional Joint Committee on Taxation estimated
that a one-year extension would cost the government $235 million
in forgone revenue over the next decade. That’s higher than the
$78 million estimate it issued last year, before officials
realized how much of a benefit the credit provides to Whirlpool.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  