-- 
Obama Releases Both Forms of Birth Certificate, Citing Policy Distractions

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-04-28T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/white-house-distributes-copies-of-obama-s-birth-certificate-amid-disputes.html
President Barack Obama yesterday
sought to end persistent questions from some political opponents
about his birthplace by releasing a copy of his long-form birth
certificate and decrying the “silliness” of the controversy.  Obama said the issue should have been considered settled
during the 2008 campaign and that he has been “puzzled at the
degree to which this thing just kept on going,” even as the
U.S. faces debates over such matters as the federal debt.  “We’re not going to be able to solve our problems if we
get distracted by sideshows and carnival barkers,” Obama said
at the White House, without naming anyone. “We do not have time
for this kind of silliness.”  The president’s aides said they released the documents
because, although the controversy might help Obama politically
going into his 2012 re-election campaign by tinting those
focused on it, the matter was diverting attention from
discussions on the nation’s economy and fiscal future.  The issue of whether the president was born in the U.S. and
therefore constitutionally eligible to serve as president
recently has been revived, in part, by developer  Donald Trump ,
who is considering a 2012 presidential bid as a Republican. In
addition, several states have been considering legislation that
would require political candidates to present birth certificates
to qualify for office.  Dan Pfeiffer , White House communications director, said the
“fake controversy” over where Obama was born had “transcended
from the nether regions of the Internet into mainstream
political debate.”  Political Impact  It probably is in Obama’s “long-term political interests to
allow this birther debate to dominate discussion in the
 Republican Party  for months to come,” Pfeiffer said at a
briefing. “But he thought even though it might have been good
politics, he thought it was bad for the country.”  Linda Fowler, professor of government at  Dartmouth College 
in Hanover,  New Hampshire , said the issue may have benefited the
administration by making it appear that Obama’s opponents who
are raising the questions weren’t credible.  “It has become an important part of the fight between
Democrats and Republicans over independent voters, who I think
look with a lot of dismay at the whole birther movement, and
what it implies, and this is the key demographic that both
parties are going to try to win,” Fowler said.  Trump’s Reaction  In a televised news conference yesterday in New Hampshire,
which traditionally holds the nation’s first presidential
primary, Trump took credit for forcing Obama’s hand.  He said his questions “accomplished something that nobody
else has been able to accomplish” in causing Obama to release
the document. “I’m really honored, frankly, to have played such
a big role in hopefully, hopefully, getting rid of this issue,”
he said.  Still, he said, the document will have to be examined.
“But I hope it’s true,” he said.  Other Republicans have been distancing themselves from the
questions about Obama’s birthplace.  “This issue is a distraction,” Reince Priebus, chairman
of the  Republican National Committee , said in an e-mailed
statement. Obama “ought to spend his time getting serious about
repairing our economy, working with Republicans and focusing on
the long-term sustainability of Medicare, Medicaid and Social
Security.”  Continued Questions  Obama said he expected the questions won’t be put fully to
rest by release of the birth certificate and correspondence with
a state official in  Hawaii , which were  posted  on the White House
website.  “Now, I know that there’s going to be a segment of people
for which, no matter what we put out, this issue will not be put
to rest,” Obama said.  Ed Goeas, head of Republican polling firm the Tarrance
Group, said release of the document would do little to convince
skeptical Republican voters, who will question why it took Obama
2 1/2 years to release the document.  “He’s the one that has let this fester out there,” Goeas
said.  A  USA Today/Gallup poll  published April 26 showed that 43
percent of those who identified themselves as Republicans said
they thought the president was born abroad. Among all Americans,
38 percent said they believe Obama was born in the U.S., and 18
percent said he probably was, while 15 percent said he probably
was born in another country and 9 percent said he definitely was
born outside the U.S.  Next Target  Judson Phillips, founder of Tea Party Nation, questioned
the timing of the release of the birth certificate and moved on
to his next target: Obama’s college records.  “Obama has never released his college records, including
those at Occidental College” in  Los Angeles , he wrote in a blog
post. “Many believe Obama went to college there on a
scholarship reserved for foreign students.”  White House Counsel Robert Bauer said the administration
decided last week to research seeking a waiver of Hawaii’s
state’s prohibition on releasing the  long-form  birth
certificate, which includes the name of the hospital and the
signature of the attending physician.  In the correspondence with the White House, Loretta Fuddy,
Hawaii’s director of health, said she was making an exception to
department policy by providing copies of the original
certificate of live birth.  She wrote that the “numerous inquiries” about Obama’s
birth certificate “have been disruptive to staff operations and
strained state resources.”  Obama was born Aug. 4, 1961, in Honolulu at Kapiolani
Maternity and Gynecological Hospital, according to the document.
His mother, Stanley Ann Dunham, was born in  Kansas  and his
father, Barack Hussein Obama, was Kenyan.  The president has sometimes joked about the controversy
during appearances at fundraisers, such as one last night in  New
York  at the apartment of former New Jersey Governor  Jon Corzine .  “Nobody checked my I.D. at the door,” Obama said, drawing
laughter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net 
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  