-- 
Why Obama Will Get Second Term in White House: Ralph Nader

-- B y   R a l p h   N a d e r
-- 
2011-04-27T11:17:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/why-obama-will-get-second-term-in-white-house-ralph-nader.html
The stars are aligned for Barack Obama’s re-election in November 2012. He won’t join  Jimmy Carter 
to be the second Democrat in 120 years to lose a second term.  Five things are playing in Obama’s favor.  First, the Republicans -- driven by their most conservative
members in Congress -- will face a primary with many candidates
who will advance harsh ideological positions.  Michele Bachmann ,
Newt Gingrich, Donald Trump and others might as well be on the
Democratic National Committee payroll. House Budget Committee
Chairman Paul Ryan’s reverse Robin Hood plan to cut more than $6
trillion in spending over a decade will provide the outrage,
stoked by a sitting president possessed of verbal discipline.  The field of Republican weaklings is already getting
smaller. This week, Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour  dropped
out of the race for the presidency.  Second, the Republican governors’ attacks on unions are
turning off the swing voters and Reagan Democrats in  Ohio ,
 Florida ,  Pennsylvania  and  Wisconsin . Imagine the voter reaction
if millions of workers lose their right to collective
bargaining, and the impact that cuts in benefits and wages will
have on their lives.  Democratic governors, such as Jerry Brown of  California ,
Pat Quinn of  Illinois  and Andrew Cuomo of  New York , are cutting
-- but not taking away -- workers’ bargaining rights. This is a
politically useful contrast for Obama. Reagan Democrats, who
have won many elections for the Republicans, are a big plus for
Obama in the contested states.  No Challenge  Third, no candidates are emerging to challenge Obama in the
primaries. A discussion of Obama’s forgotten campaign promises
and record would have public support among Democrats. Even so,
the liberal base has nowhere to go to send a message about war,
free-trade agreements, raising the minimum wage or union
membership.  Nor does a third party or independent candidacy pose a
threat, given the winner-take-all, two-party system.  Fourth, Obama has neutered much of the big corporate
lobby’s zeal to defeat him. He decided from the beginning not to
prosecute executives from Wall Street banking, brokerage and
rating firms. Multinational companies are pleased with Obama’s
position on trade, on not disturbing the many corporate
subsidies, handouts and giveaways, such as the corn-ethanol
subsidy.  Shelters for Wealthy  By 2014, Obamacare will deliver some 30 million subsidized
customers to health-insurance companies. The  auto industry  is
forever grateful for its bailout. Obama hasn’t moved on
corporate-tax reform, tax shelters for the wealthy, or the
preferential capital-gains tax treatment on the 20 percent
service fees of hedge fund managers. Don’t forget last December
when Obama agreed to extended tax cuts for the rich while the
 budget deficit  gets larger.  The military-industrial complex about which President
Dwight Eisenhower warned in his farewell address 50 years ago,
is still uncontrollable, leading departing Defense Secretary
Robert Gates to express serious concerns. Obama has even
surprised George W. Bush and  Dick Cheney  and his cohort of
neocons, who can scarcely believe how militarily aggressive
Obama has been on just about every move that liberals used to
call impeachable offenses by former President  George W. Bush .  Big Business  Then there’s Jeffrey Immelt, the chairman and chief
executive officer of General Electric Co., who can attest to
Obama’s outreach to big business. GE Capital was bailed out. The
company effectively paid no federal income taxes on $14.2
billion in 2010 profit and received a $3.2 billion benefit.
Immelt got a $15.5 million pay raise. And in January, Obama
appointed him chairman of the  President’s Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness  while letting him stay as head of a company
receiving many government contracts and having regulation
problems with the federal authorities. The corporate state
doesn’t get much better than that.  Fifth, since the Republicans have little to offer by way of
creating jobs, Obama need only show improvement in macroeconomic
indicators, as  Ronald Reagan  did in 1983-1984, and proceed to
showcase all the tax breaks he has signed into law for big and
small businesses. Poor Americans who continue to bear the brunt
of the recession are hardly going to vote Republican. It will be
easy for Obama, with his oratorical skills, to paint the
Republican-controlled  House of Representatives  as
obstructionist, especially as he develops an economic plan for
his second term.  Black Swans  There remain the Black Swans, events that defy prediction
as those in  Japan  and the Middle East have shown. Handling them
with firmness and calmness from the White House is what most
people expect of a president. Obama will surely not repeat
Bush’s mistakes after  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005.  Obama is averse to conflict with corporate power and
disarmingly expedient in compromising with Republicans, leaving
the latter to argue largely among themselves. The political
duopoly lets the tactical Obama use the Bully Pulpit to his
political advantage, even if his principles perish. Obama can
look forward to four more years in 2012.  (Ralph Nader is the founder of Public Citizen and author of
the book “Only the Super-Rich Can Save Us!” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ralph Nader at  info@nader.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  