-- 
Armadillos Spread Leprosy to People in Southern U.S.

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-04-28T15:22:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/wild-armadillos-spread-leprosy-to-people-in-southern-u-s-research-finds.html
(Corrects to say leprosy bacterium in 10th paragraph of
story published April 26.)  Armadillos  are the most likely
cause of unexplained cases of  leprosy  among people with the
disease in the southern U.S., where the animals are hunted and
eaten, a study found.  Using genomic analysis, researchers identified the same
strain of leprosy in 28 of 33 wild armadillos and 25 of 39
patients who lived in states where the animals are common,
according to the study published today in the  New England
Journal of Medicine . Exposure to fresh armadillo blood or tissue
raises the risk of leprosy infection, researchers said.  In the U.S., only about 150 new cases of leprosy, also
known as Hansen’s disease, are reported each year, the majority
of which occur in people who lived or worked in places outside
the country where the disease is more prevalent, the study said.
About one third of U.S. cases aren’t linked to a cause, and the
study helps doctors understand how many of those infections
occur, researchers said.  “It’s extremely likely that the people who have never been
exposed to a human who has leprosy, it’s very likely they got
leprosy from exposure to an armadillo,” said Anthony Fauci,
director of the National Institute of Allergy and  Infectious
Diseases , part of the National Institutes of Health, in an April
26 telephone interview.  Leprosy, an infectious disease known since biblical times,
causes disfiguring sores and nerve damage and is found mostly in
tropical and semitropical regions of the world. The illness,
caused by Mycobacterium leprae, is  curable  using antibiotics.  Leprosy Carriers  Armadillos, mammals known for their leathery armor, are
found in  Texas ,  Louisiana ,  Mexico  and areas of Central and  South
America . They are the only nonhuman animals known to harbor the
leprosy infection. Since scientists in the 1970s discovered
armadillos’ susceptibility to leprosy, the creatures have been
the primary animal model in research on the disease, according
to background information in the study.  People who hunt armadillos or prepare them for food have a
small risk of catching the disease from the animals, said lead
study author Richard Truman, chief of microbiology at the
National Hansen’s Disease Program, part of the  U.S. Department
of Health  and Human Services, in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Only a
small percentage of armadillos are actually infected with
leprosy, he said.  “Susceptibility to leprosy itself is relatively rare.
Probably 95 percent of the world’s population is naturally
immune to this infection,” said Truman, in an April 26
telephone interview.  Leprosy DNA  The researchers analyzed leprosy DNA in 50 people with the
disease and 33 wild armadillos captured in Texas, Louisiana,
 Mississippi ,  Arkansas  and  Alabama  to try to determine a common
link. Armadillos outside these states haven’t been found to
carry leprosy, Truman said.  Among the 50 people examined, 39 lived in areas where they
could have been exposed to leprosy from armadillos and of those
39, 29 never lived outside the U.S. The researchers found that
25 of the 39, including 22 of the 29, carried the strain of the
leprosy bacterium found in 28 of the 33 wild armadillos.  “There are very few cases in this country, so this does not
have broad public health implications,” Fauci said.  Still, he said, those who do come into contact with
armadillos either through hunting or preparing the animals to be
eaten should be aware that they can contract the disease.  Today’s study was sponsored in part by the  National
Institutes of Health .  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  