-- 
Wipro Shares Fall After ‘Dismal’ Revenue Forecast at Biggest Business Unit

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 
2011-04-27T10:36:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/wipro-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-14-to-310-million-matches-estimates.html
Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) ,  India ’s third-largest
software exporter, fell the most in almost two weeks after the
company forecast first-quarter sales at its information-
technology unit would remain little changed.  Revenue at the company’s biggest business division will
range between $1.39 billion and $1.42 billion in the current
quarter, Wipro said in a statement today. Sales at the unit in
the three months ended March were $1.4 billion, Wipro said today
while reporting fourth-quarter net income.  “This is a very poor guidance,” said Pralay Kumar Das, an
analyst with Elara Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai. “The only
way the stock could have gone up was if they had guided about 3
percent to 4 percent growth.” He rates the shares a “sell.”  Wipro joins bigger rival  Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO)  in
forecasting sales that trailed analysts’ expectations, signaling
customers may be hesitant to sign long-term contracts because of
concerns about the global economic recovery. In January,
billionaire Chairman  Azim Premji  named T.K. Kurien as the chief
executive officer to drive growth and expand overseas after the
co-heads of the IT business resigned.  Shares fell 2.9 percent to 451.1 rupees at the close of
trading in Mumbai, the most since April 15. The benchmark
Sensitive Index, or Sensex, fell 0.5 percent.  Management Transition  “Their positioning in the market right now is weak,” said
Ankur Rudra, vice president in charge of institutional equities
at Mumbai-based Ambit Capital Pvt. “Also, there’s the added
distraction of a management transition going on,” said Rudra,
who also rates the shares a “sell.”  Wipro said on Jan. 21 that T.K. Kurien would take over as
chief executive officer of its information technology business
after Girish Paranjpe and Suresh Vaswani resigned as joint CEOs.  The company today said net income climbed 14 percent to
13.8 billion rupees ($310 million) in the three months ended
March, in earnings based on International Financial Reporting
Standards. That compared with the 13.68 billion-rupee average of
27 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company doesn’t give sales or profit forecast for all
its businesses combined. Wipro also makes  light bulbs , soaps and
other consumer products.  “The June quarter is seasonally one of the strongest
quarters, and the dismal guidance by the company indicates that
recent changes in top management will take time to start
reflecting in numbers,” KR Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt., a
local brokerage, said in a note to clients. The brokerage
recommends investors “hold” the shares.  Clients  The business environment is “positive” and the company is
focusing on growth by “directing investments on momentum
verticals,” said Chief Financial Officer Suresh Senapaty in a
statement. The wage increases planned by the company effective
June 1 would have an impact on the operating margins, he said.  Revenue in the quarter rose 18 percent to 83 billion
rupees. That compared with the 82.4 billion rupees average of 46
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Wipro, which provides services such as designing and
building software programs, product-engineering and back-office
support to companies including  BP Plc (BP) , William Morrison
Supermarkets Plc. and Pitney Bowes Inc. added 68 new customers
in the quarter.  Wipro added a net 2,894 employees at its technology unit
last quarter and ended the fiscal year with 122,385 workers,
according to the statement.  Growth in global technology spending may slow to 5.1
percent this year from 5.4 percent in 2010 because of the
“continued macroeconomic uncertainty,” Stamford, Connecticut-
based research company Gartner Inc. forecast in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Jay Shankar in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  