-- 
Yankee Lidle’s Plane Crashed Because of Control Defect, Lawyer Tells Jury

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-04-27T18:45:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/yankee-lidle-s-plane-crashed-because-of-control-defect-lawyer-tells-jury.html
New York  Yankees pitcher Cory Lidle’s plane slammed into an Upper East Side building in
October 2006 because the flight-control system was defective, a
lawyer told a jury in Manhattan today.  Lidle and his flight instructor, Tyler Stanger, were killed
when their plane crashed into an apartment building on East 72nd
Street on Oct. 11, 2006. Lidle was 34 and Stanger was 26. Their
widows filed a wrongful death suit against Duluth, Minnesota-
based Cirrus Design Corp., the manufacturer of Lidle’s single-
engine SR20 plane, in February 2007.  The suit claims that the flight-control system failed
because of a design defect that caused Lidle and Stanger to lose
control of the plane. Cirrus contends that the pilots started a
turn too close to the eastern shore of the island of  Manhattan 
at too low an angle, leaving them too little room to finish the
maneuver.  “There is no pilot error,” Todd E. Macaluso, a lawyer
representing the estates of Lidle and Stanger, told the jury in
opening statements in federal court in Manhattan. “There is no
negligence. If you can’t control the airplane, you can’t be at
fault. This airplane was out of control.”  The accident was a “terrible tragedy” and Cirrus is
“genuinely sorry” for the loss of the two men, Patrick E.
Bradley, an attorney representing the company, said in opening
statements before U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones.  “While acknowledging that, we also have to acknowledge
that it is wrong and it is unfair to blame someone for something
they did not do,” Bradley said. “Cirrus did not cause these
deaths, the airplane did not cause these deaths.”  The case is Lidle v. Cirrus Design Corp., 1:08-cv-01253,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 