-- 
Hybrid, Battery Car Demand Limited by Cost, Utility, J.D. Power Study Says

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-04-27T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/hybrid-battery-car-demand-limited-by-cost-utility-study-says.html
Demand for hybrid and rechargeable
cars may stay below 10 percent of U.S. sales through at least
2016, even as fuel prices rise, because of consumer concerns
about their expense and utility,  J.D. Power & Associates  said.  Hybrids’ higher cost compared with gasoline-powered autos
and the limited driving range per charge of all-electric and
plug-in cars limits their appeal,  J.D. Power  said in its U.S.
Green Automotive Study released today. While consumers generally
want autos that are fuel-efficient and environmentally friendly,
cost typically outweighs those concerns, Power said.  “It is the financial issues that most often resonate with
consumers, whether it is the higher price of the vehicle itself,
the cost to fuel or charge the vehicle, or the fear of higher
maintenance costs,” said Mike VanNieuwkuyk, Power’s executive
director of global vehicle research. “Most consumers want to be
green, but not if there is a significant personal cost to
them.”  U.S. efforts to boost fuel economy, rising gasoline prices
and concern over carbon-dioxide emissions linked to  climate
change  have raised interest in alternative power-train models,
including  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s plug-in Volt and Nissan Motor
Co.’s battery-powered Leaf. Sales of such autos remain low, with
hybrids accounting for only about 2.5 percent of deliveries in
2010, according to Bloomberg data.  For battery-powered vehicles, along with cost concerns,
consumers worry about driving range and availability of places
to recharge the vehicles away from home, Power said. As a
result, they currently have the lowest consideration level among
primary alternative power-train technologies, including hybrids,
plug-in hybrids and so-called clean diesel models, Power said.  ‘Dirty’ Image  Advanced diesel vehicles, such as those sold by  Germany ’s
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  that offer fuel economy similar to
hybrids, also face limited U.S. sales because of the fuel’s
higher cost and lingering image problem, according to the study.  “Clean diesel technology continues to struggle not only
against concerns about cost and perceived fuel availability, but
also against the lingering perception that diesel is ‘dirty,’”
VanNieuwkuyk said.  Power, an industry researcher based in  Westlake Village ,
 California , surveyed 4,000 people for its study. Of that group,
51 percent said they’d consider buying a hybrid model; 37
percent would consider a plug-in hybrid, such as GM’s Volt; 31
percent expressed interest in diesel models; and 26 percent
would consider a battery-only car, according to Power.  A majority of U.S. consumers are interested in alternative
power-train vehicles and view them positively, according to the
study.  “Converting this interest into actual sales will require
concerted efforts to improve the technology and infrastructure
and reduce the cost to consumers,” Power said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  