-- 
YouTube Founders Hurley, Chen Acquire Delicious From Yahoo

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-04-27T20:33:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-27/youtube-founders-hurley-chen-acquire-delicious-from-yahoo.html
Yahoo! Inc., the largest U.S.
Internet portal, sold its Web-bookmarking service Delicious to
YouTube founders Chad Hurley and Steve Chen, part of a plan to
offload underperforming sites.  The service will become part of Avos, a new  Internet
company , Hurley and Chen said today in a  statement . Hurley is
chief executive officer of the new business.  “We’re excited to work with this fantastic community and
take Delicious to the next level,” he said in the statement.
“We see a tremendous opportunity to simplify the way users save
and share content they discover anywhere on the Web.”  Yahoo, more than two years into a turnaround by CEO  Carol Bartz , is selling off businesses and trimming staff to generate
more profit. Earlier this year, it announced plans to eliminate
about 1 percent of staff, following an earlier round of cuts in
December. The strategy helped first-quarter earnings top
analysts’ estimates this month.  “As we have said, part of our product strategy involves
shifting our investment with off-strategy products to put better
focus on our core strengths and fund new innovation,” Yahoo
said in an e-mailed statement. “We believe this is the right
move for the service, our users and our shareholders and look
forward to watching the Delicious technology develop.”  Adding Staff  The YouTube founders plan to “aggressively hire” to
improve the service, making it easier to use. Hurley and Chen
are relocating Delicious to  San Mateo ,  California , near where
they started YouTube, which is now part of  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Founded in 2003, Delicious lets users easily save and share
Web pages, and it displays stories or websites that are gaining
attention from across the service. Like similar services such as
Digg Inc., Delicious has struggled with a shift in how Web
surfers get their news and content. More  Internet users  now turn
to social-networking sites such as Twitter Inc. and Facebook
Inc. to find stories.  Yahoo, which acquired Delicious in 2005, declined to
disclose the sale price.  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale, California, fell 2 cents to
$17.26 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The
shares have gained 3.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  