-- T-Mobile Seeks Polish Takeovers to Quicken Fixed-Line Expansion
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-10-04T11:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/t-mobile-seeks-polish-takeovers-to-quicken-fixed-line-expansion.html
Deutsche Telekom AG, which runs the
second-largest mobile phone network in Poland, is seeking to buy
a fixed-line operator in central  Europe ’s biggest market this
year to speed up growth and diversify revenue.  The German company started building a landline network for
business customers in Poland more than a year ago and may
purchase a company with “a big scale of operations,” Miroslav
Rakowski, chief executive officer of its  T-Mobile Polska SA (DTE)  unit
said. Rakowski wouldn’t name any companies. Possible takeover
targets “can be counted on the fingers of one hand” and Netia
SA, Poland’s second-largest fixed-line phone company, isn’t one
of them, he said.  “I’d be very glad if any decision on a takeover was made
this year,” Rakowski said in an interview in his Warsaw office
on Oct. 2. “I can’t say what the probability is, but something
tells me that the chances are very high.”  Adding a traditional phone-line business to its mobile
operations should help Deutsche Telekom reverse a decline in
Polish revenue as competition increased and the regulator’s
forced phone companies to cut prices. The watchdog is lowering
the rates that mobile operators charge each other for calls to
their networks, while competition is eroding fixed-line revenue.  GTS Sale  Rakowski declined to comment on whether Deutsche Telekom,
Europe’s second-biggest phone company, is interested in GTS
 Central Europe , a Warsaw-based provider of phone and Internet
services to businesses. The operator is competing against U.S.-
based  Level 3 Communications Inc. (LVLT)  to buy GTS in a transaction
that may fetch 500 million euros ($681 million), two people
familiar with the discussions said on Aug. 9.  GTS, which has 38,000 customers and a network consisting of
26,000 kilometers of fiber, posted sales of 387 million euros
and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 103 million euros for 2012.  “Without a fixed-line business it will be hard for
anybody” to halt a revenue decline, Rakowski said. “Operators
that will lack this second leg will be losing money.”  T-Mobile Polska expects revenue to rebound in 2015 after
falling about 7 percent this year and shrinking “less
dramatically” next year, Rakowski said. Expanding a fixed-line
network may help the company increase revenue from corporate
clients to more than a half of total sales in four years from
the current less than 40 percent, he said.  New Frequencies  The company is planning to bid for high-speed mobile
Internet frequencies in 800 MHz and 2,600 MHz spectrums, which
 Poland ’s government wants to put up for sale this year, to add
to the 1,800 MHz spectrum it won in February.  The terms of the auction require more consultations with
potential bidders to ensure its success, he said.  T-Mobile is building a high-speed Internet network to
compete with billionaire Zygmunt Solorz-Zak’s Polkomtel Sp. z
o.o., the first operator to offer LTE, or long-term evolution,
Internet in Poland. P4 Sp. z o.o., the country’s fourth-biggest
mobile operator and a co-winner of the February auction, plans
to start providing LTE services in November.  Rakowski declined to say when T-Mobile will start offering
LTE services in Poland. The company wants its network to cover a
“big area” of the country before starting them.  T-Mobile Polska, whose first-half revenue was 3.31 billion
zloty, competes with  Orange SA (ORA) ’s Polish unit and Polkomtel, with
sales from mobile services at 3.12 billion zloty and 3.38
billion zloty respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  