-- Lacker Says U.S. Shutdown Economic Effects to Be Transitory
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-10-04T19:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/lacker-says-u-s-shutdown-effects-on-economy-to-be-transitory.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker , who has opposed additional stimulus,
said the partial U.S. government shutdown won’t affect economic
growth for long and doesn’t change his desire to slow bond
buying.  The impact “is likely to be transitory,” Lacker, who
doesn’t vote on policy this year, told reporters after a speech
in Baltimore. “Whatever it takes out of fourth-quarter growth,
there’ll probably be a matching offset on the positive side in
first-quarter growth.”  Fed policy makers are debating how to curb record stimulus
amid a deadlock over the federal government’s budget and a lack
of agreement on raising the debt ceiling to avoid default. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  at its next gathering on Oct.
29-30 will weigh the impact from the government’s partial
shutdown as policy makers debate tapering the $85 billion pace
of monthly bond buying to boost the labor market.  Lacker said the shutdown doesn’t have a “huge effect” on
his view on monetary policy, adding he would have favored a
tapering of purchases last month if he had expected a two-week
shutdown. The absence of some government data will make it more
difficult for policy makers to assess the economy, and “slows
down our understanding of the improvement” in the economy, he
said.  ‘Original Conditions’  “I’ve been advocating that in judging when and how fast to
reduce the pace of asset purchases, that we stick to the
original conditions that we put on it, which were substantial
improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions,” Lacker
said. “The case is clear in my mind a substantial improvement
in labor market conditions has taken place.”  The Richmond Fed chief said he was confident that
inflation, which has been running at an annual rate less than
the central bank’s 2 percent goal, would increase to the target
“over the next couple quarters.”  “Our ability to provide monetary stimulus is limited and I
don’t think further stimulus is warranted,” Lacker said.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart , speaking to
reporters yesterday at a conference in Atlanta, said a shortage
of government data because of the shutdown “would tend to make
me somewhat more cautious” about reducing the monthly pace of
bond purchases. While he wouldn’t “rule out” tapering this
month, Lockhart said the shutdown is “compounding the murkiness
of the situation that I perceived a few weeks ago.”  The Fed has pledged for more than a year to press on with
asset purchases until achieving sustainable gains in the labor
market. The central bank announced a third round of quantitative
easing in September 2012 to reduce longer-term  interest rates ,
stoke economic growth and combat unemployment.  A week-long partial shutdown of the federal government
would probably shave 0.1 percentage point from economic growth,
according to 40 economists in a Bloomberg survey this week. The
world’s largest economy expanded at a 2.5 percent rate in the
second quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  