-- Adobe Says Hackers Stole Source Code, 2.9M Custoers’ Info
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/adobe-says-hackers-stole-source-code-2-9m-custoers-info.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , the biggest maker
of graphic-design software, said hackers broke into its networks
and stole personal data on 2.9 million customers and source code
for popular products including Acrobat and ColdFusion.  The customer information includes names and encrypted
credit- and debit-card numbers, and Adobe is notifying victims
and resetting the passwords for affected accounts on its
website, Brad Arkin, chief security officer, wrote yesterday in
a  blog post . The San Jose, California-based company doesn’t
believe the hackers got access to decrypted card numbers, Arkin
wrote.  While there are established procedures for consumers to
fight financial fraud after a data breach -- primarily
contacting banks and placing  fraud alerts  on credit reports --
the theft of source code presents a more vexing challenge for
technology companies. In a separate  blog post , Arkin wrote that
Adobe believes the same hackers may have stolen code for Adobe
Acrobat, ColdFusion, ColdFusion Builder and other products.  Such thefts potentially open the door for hacking attacks
on Adobe customers, as source code can allow hackers to identify
previously unknown weaknesses in the software and deliver
specially crafted attacks. Adobe isn’t aware of any “zero-day”
attacks targeting its products based on the theft, Arkin wrote.
The term refers to attacks that begin before companies know the
vulnerabilities in their products exist.  Adobe didn’t specify whether the code was for the latest
versions of the software, which would amplify the threat of
hacking attacks.  Symantec Theft  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , the biggest maker of computer-security
software, said in February 2012 that it was the target of an
attempt to extort $50,000 from the company to keep stolen source
code for its products off the Internet. Symantec said the code
was stolen in a 2006 incursion into its networks and mostly
applied to obsolete products, which muted reaction to the
incident.  Adobe shares slipped 0.5 percent to $50.61 yesterday in
late trading after falling 1.2 percent to $50.88 at the  New York 
close. They have gained  35 percent  this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  