-- Madoff Ex-Worker Trial to Shine New Light on Ponzi Scheme
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/madoff-ex-worker-trial-to-shine-new-light-on-ponzi-scheme.html
Bernard Madoff ’s former personal
secretary is among five of the con man’s ex-employees who will
be the first to face a jury in a criminal trial for their
alleged roles in carrying out the world’s biggest  Ponzi scheme .  The former employees, all of whom have pleaded not guilty,
include Annette Bongiorno, who worked with Madoff for 40 years
and helped recruit investors. Jury selection for the trial,
which the judge estimated could last five months, is slated to
start Oct. 7 in federal court in Manhattan.  The proceeding will offer the fullest public accounting yet
of how Madoff carried out the fraud, which cost thousands of
investors $17 billion in lost principal and billions more in
imaginary profit. A bankruptcy court trustee is still selling
assets and re-paying victims. Earlier guilty pleas by Madoff,
75, and some of his top aides averted a trial until now.  “People have always wondered what was known inside
Madoff’s operation and this trial will be our first window into
that world,” said  Stephen Miller , a former federal prosecutor
and a lawyer at Cozen O’Connor in Philadelphia. “There hasn’t
been an insider telling their story publicly yet.”  Prosecutors allege Madoff hid the fraud for decades with
help from the defendants: Bongiorno, who helped run the
investment advisory business; Joann Crupi, a back-office worker
who managed large accounts; ex-operations chief Daniel Bonventre
and computer programmers Jerome O’Hara and  George Perez .  Madoff Arrested  Madoff was arrested Dec. 11, 2008, after telling federal
agents that his company, which occupied three floors of a
lipstick-shaped skyscraper in midtown Manhattan, was a sham.  Four months later, he pleaded guilty to 11 charges
including  securities fraud  and  wire fraud  and was sentenced to
150 years in prison. While Madoff confessed to swindling his
clients, he refused to admit to a conspiracy charge that would
have required him to implicate others, people familiar with the
case said at the time.  In August 2009, the U.S. won a guilty plea from  Frank DiPascali , Madoff’s finance chief, who agreed to cooperate with
prosecutors and explain how he and others helped Madoff defraud
investors. David Friehling, an accountant for Madoff, also
pleaded guilty to helping him prepare phony tax returns and is
cooperating with prosecutors.  O’Hara and Perez, Madoff’s former computer programmers,
were arrested in November 2009 and accused of using their
technical skills to help build Madoff’s scheme.  Handwritten Note  Prosecutors said they found a handwritten note in O’Hara’s
desk from 2006 saying, “I won’t lie any longer.” The U.S. said
the men got salary increases and bonuses from Madoff as hush
money.  “The computer codes and random algorithms they allegedly
designed served to deceive investors and regulators and
concealed Madoff’s crimes,”  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement at the time.  Bonventre, an aide to DiPascali, was arrested in February
2010, and accused of creating bogus financial records to give
Madoff’s firm the appearance of legitimacy. Bonventre was hired
as an auditor by Madoff in 1968.  Madoff’s secretary, Bongiorno, was arrested in November
2010 at her home in  Boca Raton ,  Florida . She reported to
DiPascali. Crupi, who worked for Madoff for 27 years, was
arrested the same day at her home in Westfield,  New Jersey .  ‘Lone Architect’  “A house of cards is almost never built by one lone
architect,” Bharara said in a statement on the day Bongiorno
and Crupi were detained.  Bongiorno managed Madoff investor accounts in November 2008
that purportedly held a balance of about $8.5 billion, while
Crupi controlled accounts with a balance of about $900 million,
prosecutors said.  Claiming to execute trades for clients, the two women
simply posted fabricated transactions in their records and
backdated them with historical prices to show a gain, the U.S.
said.  Madoff’s former accountant, Paul Konigsberg, pleaded not
guilty on Sept. 26 to charges he helped the convict carry out
the Ponzi scheme as early as 1992 by fabricating books and
trading records.  Prosecutors allege Madoff steered important clients to
Konigsberg, who the U.S. described as a “willing outsider”
required to carry on the fraud. Konigsberg’s lawyer,  Reed Brodsky , has said his client was a victim of Madoff. Konigsberg
isn’t a defendant in next week’s trial.  Guilty Pleas  Federal prosecutors obtained guilty pleas from  Peter Madoff , who helped his brother run the firm for four decades and
employees Craig Kugel, David Kugel, Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz,
Irwin Lipkin and Eric Lipkin. Peter Madoff was sentenced to 10
years in prison. The other defendants haven’t been sentenced.  Bernie Madoff ’s oldest son, Mark Madoff, committed suicide
in December 2010 on the second anniversary of his father’s
arrest. He was never accused of a crime.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain, who will preside
over the trial, issued a ruling Oct. 3 barring prosecutors from
showing the jury evidence that O’Hara and Perez gained
unauthorized access to Madoff Securities’ computer systems in
early 2009, when they were assisting the bankruptcy trustee in
liquidating the firm.  Prospective Employers  The men claim they needed to print out computer codes to
show prospective employers, according to court filings.
Prosecutors allege the code was outdated and worthless on a
resume, and that they printed it for “nefarious” reasons.  Evidence of the computer access “is quintessentially the
sort of proof that should be put before the jury,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney Matthew Schwartz said in a letter to the judge on
Oct. 1.  Swain disagreed.  “The probative value of this evidence,” which is not
“facially indicative of any attempt to destroy or alter
information, is significantly outweighed by the risks of unfair
prejudice, juror confusion and waste of time,” Swain said.  Swain ruled Sept. 26 that jurors wouldn’t be told about
Mark Madoff’s suicide or about luxury items bought by several
defendants. Prosecutors may tell jurors about a beach house
Crupi bought with a $2.7 million bonus, the judge said.  The biggest challenge for the defense team is “the sheer
scope of the fraud,” said Miller, the former prosecutor who
isn’t involved in the case. “It was so massive in terms of
dollars and it went on for so long, I think it’ll be difficult
for people to believe at first blush that only one person or a
few people knew about it.”  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  