-- Afghanistan Claims Cricket World Cup Spot by Beating Kenya
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-10-04T14:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/afghanistan-beats-kenya-to-qualify-for-first-cricket-world-cup.html
Afghanistan  beat Kenya by seven
wickets to qualify for the Cricket World Cup for the first time.  Captain Mohammad Nabi’s unbeaten 46 helped Afghanistan
reach its victory target of 94 with 175 balls remaining in the
qualifying competition in the United Arab Emirates. He and
Hashmatullah Shaidi, who scored 13, made a 62-run fourth-wicket
stand after Afghanistan was reduced to 34-3.  “I can’t express my feelings,” Nabi said in a statement
from the  International Cricket Council , the game’s governing
body. “I didn’t expect to play in a World Cup when I started
playing cricket.”  Nabi hit a four for the winning runs, leading to a
celebration as his teammates ran onto the field carrying a giant
Afghanistan flag. Kenya was earlier bowled out for 93 in 43.3
overs.  The victory enabled Afghanistan to finish second to Ireland
in qualification, earning it a place in a pool at the 2015 World
Cup that includes co-hosts  Australia , a four-time champion, and
 New Zealand , along with  England ,  Sri Lanka , Bangladesh and a
team yet to be determined.  “Afghanistan is a talented team who will prove a
competitive opponent for any team that comes up against it,”
ICC Chief Executive David Richardson said in the statement.  Afghanistan has made a rapid ascent after the country’s
cricket board in 2001 became an affiliate member of the ICC.  Even though it isn’t allowed to play home matches because
of the political situation in the country, it’s had success in
Twenty20 cricket, the game’s shortest form. The team qualified
for the 2010 and 2012 World Cups and is ninth in the ICC’s T20
world rankings.  In the 50-overs format, Afghanistan is currently 13th in
the world rankings, two spots below five-time World Cup
participant  Kenya . The Afghans missed qualifying for the 2011
World cup by one place.  “Now I can cherish this moment and look forward to playing
against the best sides in some of the best playing facilities,”
Nabi added. “Playing in a World Cup will be one grade up and
we’ll try to work hard and do better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  