-- Taiwan Dollar Touches Eight-Month High on China Recovery
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-10-04T08:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/taiwan-dollar-strengthens-to-eight-month-high-on-china-recovery.html
Taiwan ’s dollar touched an eight-month high as Chinese data signaled an economic recovery in the
island’s biggest export market is gathering pace.  China ’s non-manufacturing purchasing manager’s index
climbed to a six-month high in September, according to a report
released yesterday, after a separate gauge showed manufacturing
expanded last month. The Taiex  index  closed at the highest level
since May yesterday as global funds pumped $607 million into
local equities, exchange data show.  The local dollar strengthened 0.1 percent to NT$29.502
against the greenback, prices from Taipei Forex Inc. show. It
touched NT$29.29 earlier, the strongest level since Jan. 28. The
currency advanced 0.5 percent this week and 2.3 percent in the
past three months.  “The  Taiwan dollar , like  Korea , is very well-leveraged to
what’s happening in China,” said  Patrick Bennett , Hong Kong-based strategist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
“China’s non-manufacturing PMI that was out this week was
stronger than previously, and we think services are increasingly
important for China,” he said, adding that he expects the
island’s currency to advance toward NT$29 per dollar in the next
few months.  The currency was trading 0.6 percent stronger six minutes
before the 4 p.m. close today. The central bank has sold the
local dollar in the run-up to the close on most days since March
2012, according to traders who asked not to be identified.  Forwards, Bonds  One-month non-deliverable forwards were little changed
today at NT$29.310 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The contracts rose 0.7 percent this week. One-month
implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, gained 25 basis points today and six
basis points this week to 3.92 percent.  The yield on the 1.75 percent government notes due
September 2023 rose one basis point to 1.67 percent, according
to Gretai Securities Market. The rate fell six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, this week.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was steady today and
this week at 0.385 percent, a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  