-- Alex Rodriguez Sues MLB Over ‘Witch Hunt’
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-10-04T22:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/alex-rodriguez-sues-major-league-baseball-in-n-y-state-court.html
Alex Rodriguez , the  New York Yankees ’
third baseman, sued Major League Baseball and Commissioner  Bud Selig , accusing them of attempting to destroy his reputation and
career in their crackdown on performance-enhancing substances.  Rodriguez, 38, filed a complaint yesterday in New York
State Supreme Court in  Manhattan , accusing Selig and MLB of
singling him out for an “unprecedented” 211-game suspension,
the “longest non-permanent ban in baseball history.”  “It’s motivated largely to give Rodriguez a bargaining
chip with baseball, specifically that there’s a lawsuit now
against the league,” said Michael McCann, director of the
Sports and Entertainment Law Institute at the University of New
Hampshire School of Law. “Rodriguez and his attorneys hope that
this will persuade baseball to offer to reduce the suspension.”  Selig and MLB engaged in “vigilante justice” during a
probe of  Coral Gables , Florida-based anti-aging clinic
Biogenesis of America, Rodriguez said in his complaint. Selig
and MLB also ignored procedures set forth in labor agreements,
including confidentiality provisions, and paid millions of
dollars for documents and testimony, Rodriguez said. MLB
“bullied and intimidated” people who “refused to cooperate
with their witch hunt,” he said.  Used Power  “Commissioner Selig and MLB persistently have employed
powers not available to them under the collectively bargained
agreements between MLB and its union in order to make an example
of Mr. Rodriguez, so as to gloss over Commissioner Selig’s past
inaction and tacit approval of the use of performance-enhancing
substances in baseball (not to mention his multiple acts of
collusion) and in an attempt to secure his legacy as the
‘savior’ of America’s pastime,” Rodriguez said in the
complaint.  Major League Baseball  said in a statement that the lawsuit
is a “clear violation” of confidentiality provisions of its
drug program and “nothing more than a desperate attempt to
circumvent the collective bargaining agreement.”  “While we vehemently deny the allegations in the
complaint, none of those allegations is relevant to the real
issue: whether Mr. Rodriguez violated the Joint Drug Prevention
and Treatment Program by using and possessing numerous forms of
prohibited performance-enhancing substances, including
testosterone and human growth hormone, over the course of
multiple years and whether he violated the basic agreement by
attempting to cover up his violations of the program,” MLB
said.  ‘Multiple Years’  Selig said when he announced the discipline on Aug. 5 that
Rodriguez used testosterone and human growth hormone for
“multiple years” and tried to “obstruct and frustrate”
baseball’s investigation.  Rodriguez was allowed to play as he appeals the suspension.
He has acknowledged taking performance-enhancing drugs as a
member of the  Texas Rangers  from 2001 to 2003, and denied any
use after that.  Rodriguez, who is seeking compensatory and punitive
damages, finished the sixth season of a 10-year, $275 million
contract, the largest in baseball. He was activated from the
disabled list the day the suspension was announced in August and
hit .244 with seven home runs in 44 games this season.  A three-time American League Most Valuable Player,
Rodriguez is fifth on MLB’s career list with 654 home runs, six
behind Hall of Fame outfielder  Willie Mays .  Rodriguez’s ban is supported by 72 percent of U.S. sports
fans, with almost half of those saying he should be kicked out
of the game for life, according to a poll by  Seton Hall
University .  ‘Sham’ Suit  Rodriguez’s suit accuses Major League Baseball of filing a
“sham” lawsuit in  Florida  to get information about players,
then continuing to seek the information after his suspension and
procuring settlements with other players “in a desperate
attempt to gather evidence that will retroactively justify their
unprecedented punishments,” according to the complaint.  MLB agreed not to pursue claims against Biogenesis owner
Anthony Bosch in exchange for his cooperation in testifying and
providing evidence against players, Rodriguez said in the
complaint.  MLB is paying Bosch $5 million in monthly installments in
exchange for his cooperation, Rodriguez said in the complaint,
citing unidentified people familiar with the deal. MLB provided
Bosch with personal security, is paying his legal fees and has
promised to indemnify him for any civil liability that might
stem from his cooperation, according to Rodriguez.  Not Paid  Bosch hasn’t been paid “$5, let alone $5 million,” a
spokeswoman for Bosch, Joyce Fitzpatrick, said in a phone
interview.  “He will not be paid,” Fitzpatrick said. “Has not been
nor will be paid.”  The Miami New Times reported in January that Rodriguez’s
name was included on a list of Biogenesis clients, citing
documents provided by Porter Fischer, a former employee of the
clinic who says Bosch owed him money.  The article “breathed new life” into MLB’s “moribund”
probe of the clinic, and Selig “quickly jumped” at the
opportunity to cement his legacy, show he was tough on
performance-enhancing drugs and harm Rodriguez, according to the
suit.  ‘Tacit Tolerance’  While the Biogenesis documents identified more than a dozen
players, two players became the target of the MLB probe -- 2011
National League MVP Ryan Braun, who was suspended for the final
65 games of this season, and Rodriguez, according to the suit.  “Taking down Mr. Rodriguez would vividly demonstrate that
Commissioner Selig had learned from the errors of his previous
explicit or tacit tolerance of steroid use,” Rodriguez said in
his suit.  Major League Baseball then sued Bosch, Biogenesis and
others in Miami-Dade County Circuit Court in Florida in an
attempt to get evidence that would allow it to “publicly
shame” and ultimately suspend Rodriguez, according to the suit.  MLB “relentlessly harassed” people in an attempt to get
information and documents and offered cash payments to former
Biogenesis employees in exchange for testimony and evidence,
according to Rodriguez’s suit.  Fischer told the Miami New Times in  June  that he turned
down an offer of a salary of $1,000 a week for consulting work
and $125,000 for all of his Biogenesis records and an affidavit
attesting to their authenticity.  Leaked Information  Fischer also told the newspaper that boxes of Biogenesis
documents were stolen from his car in March 2012. An MLB
investigator later purchased what he was told were the stolen
documents for $150,000 in cash, which was handed over at a
restaurant in Fort Lauderdale area, according to Rodriguez’s
suit.  Rodriguez’s suit also accuses MLB of leaking information
about its probe to the media and sending officials to appear on
national media outlets to discuss the investigation, such as
Selig himself, who appeared on “Late Night with  David
Letterman ” in July.  “MLB officials tortuously and maliciously made statements
to, and/or allowed leaks to be received by, the media in order
to damage Mr. Rodriguez’s public reputation and prevent him from
performing his agreement with the New York Yankees,” Rodriguez
said in the suit. “It believed that doing so would turn public
opinion against Mr. Rodriguez, and strengthen their ability to
impose a harsh punishment on him, consistent with Bud Selig’s
goal of cementing his legacy as the commissioner who cleaned up
baseball.”  Premature Timing  The biggest challenge for a case like Rodriguez’s is that a
judge is likely to say the timing of the lawsuit is premature
and that the record is still being developed by the arbitrator
handling the appeal of the suspension, said McCann. It’s likely
that the case will be dismissed, he said.  “In my opinion that’s the most likely outcome, but it’s
not a certain outcome,” said McCann of the University of New
Hampshire School of Law “Most lawyers would probably position
this lawsuit as unlikely to work for the time being, at least
until the arbitration process is over. Now when that’s over, if
he doesn’t like the outcome, I would expect he would sue
again.”  The case is Rodriguez v. Major League Baseball,
653436/2013,  New York  State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  