-- Accused Cyber-Bazaar ‘Pirate’ Has Bail Hearing Delayed
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   P a m   M a c L e a n
-- 2013-10-04T19:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/alleged-cyber-bazaar-pirate-ulbricht-bail-hearing-delayed.html
Ross William Ulbricht denied charges
that he ran a billion-dollar online drug “bazaar” and plotted
a murder-for-hire, his lawyer said after persuading a judge to
postpone a bail hearing until Oct. 9.  Ulbricht, curly-haired, clean-shaven and wearing a red jail
jumpsuit with his hands and legs shackled, made his second
appearance in federal court in San Francisco this week after
being arrested by the FBI Oct. 1 at a city public library.  “We deny all charges and that’s the end of the
discussion,” defense attorney Brandon LeBlanc told reporters
outside the courtroom today after U.S. Magistrate Judge Joseph Spero agreed to give him until next week to compile more
financial information for a bail proposal.  Prosecutors say Ulbricht ran the “Silk Road Hidden
Website” and was known as “Dread Pirate Roberts” or “DPR,”
after a character in the 1987 film “The Princess Bride.”
Federal agents seized Silk Road, along with digital currency
Bitcoins worth $3.6 million, and shut down the site Oct. 2.
Prosecutors said in court filings in Manhattan that the site
generated more than a billion dollars in illicit sales and took
in $80 million in commissions in less than three years.  The prosecutors called the site “the most sophisticated
and extensive criminal marketplace on the Internet,” and
charged Ulbricht with narcotics-trafficking conspiracy,
computer-hacking conspiracy and money-laundering conspiracy.
Ulbricht was also indicted in federal court in  Maryland  for
allegedly trying to arrange the murder of an employee he feared
would become a witness against him.  Physics Degree  The narcotics charge carries a potential maximum sentence
of life in prison and a $1 million fine. Ulbricht, who graduated
with a physics degree from University of Texas in 2006, told
Spero at an Oct. 2 hearing that he couldn’t afford an attorney;
a federal public defender appeared with him at the hearing that
day.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Randall Luskey urged Spero today
not to delay the bail hearing and said that the government
opposes releasing Ulbricht under any conditions. He said
prosecutors in Manhattan are “eager to have this resolved.”  “No combination of surety will assure community safety or
guarantee appearance,” Luskey said.  While Ulbricht didn’t speak in court today, LeBlanc said,
“We are trying to put together the best bail proposal
possible.”  Suspect’s Identity  After questioning how a bail request fits with a murder-for-hire charge, Spero rescheduled the hearing for Oct. 9, at
which time he may also determine whether prosecutors have
properly identified the suspect.  At least a half dozen federal agents surrounded Ulbricht
Oct. 1 near the science fiction shelf at a San Francisco Public
Library branch, said Michelle Jeffers, a library spokeswoman. He
didn’t appear to resist the agents, who led him away moments
later, Jeffers said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Ulbricht, 13-mg-023287; the
civil forfeiture case is U.S. v. Ulbricht, 13-cv-06919, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net 
Pam MacLean in San Francisco federal court at 
 pmaclean@pacbell.net  