-- Amerindo Founders’ Bail Should Be Revoked, U.S. Argues
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-10-04T23:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/amerindo-founders-bail-should-be-revoked-u-s-argues-1-.html
Federal prosecutors asked a judge to
lock up Alberto Vilar andGary Tanaka, the technology investors
who founded Amerindo Investment Advisors Inc., after an appeals
court ordered they be re-sentenced on their 2008 convictions for
stealing from clients.  Vilar’s $10 million bond and Tanaka’s $5 million bond
should be revoked, prosecutors told U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in  Manhattan , arguing there’s a risk the two will leave
the country unless they’re sent back to prison.  “Strong ties abroad, the near certainty of further
incarceration, in addition to related civil litigation, here
provide the defendants with a powerful incentive to flee prior
to re-sentencing,” Assistant U.S. Attorneys Benjamin Naftalis
and Justin Anderson said in a letter to Sullivan today.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York in August upheld the
men’s convictions and directed Sullivan to re-sentence them
after he calculates the amount of victims’ losses tied to
securities transactions in the U.S.  A jury in Manhattan convicted Vilar of all 12 criminal
counts against him, including fraud and conspiracy, in November
2008. Tanaka was convicted of three counts and found not guilty
of the remaining nine.  Opera, Thoroughbreds  Vilar, 73, an opera lover and former philanthropist, has
about four years remaining on his nine-year sentence. Tanaka,
70, who owned thoroughbred race horses, was born in a U.S.
internment camp for Japanese-American civilians during World War
II. He has about two years to serve on a five-year term. The two
men were released from prison on bail pending the appeal last
October.  “Why are they pursuing these guys so vehemently, after 10
years, where the government, not the defendants, are holding
funds sufficient for all clients, where all clients are offshore
investors, and where these guys, both septuagenarians, have
already spent a combined six years in jail?” Vilar’s lawyer,
Vivian Shevitz, said today in an e-mail.  Shevitz said she is asking the appeals court to reconsider
its decision upholding the convictions. Sullivan has scheduled a
bail hearing for Oct. 25.  Jane Fisher-Byrialsen, Tanaka’s lawyer, didn’t immediately
return a phone message seeking comment on the government’s
request.  The case is U.S. v. Vilar, 1:05-cr-00621, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  