-- Amtrak Funds at Risk in Extended U.S. Government Shutdown
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/amtrak-at-risk-in-extended-u-s-shutdown.html
Amtrak , the U.S. intercity passenger
railroad, may have trouble staying on track, literally, if a
U.S. government shutdown is prolonged for a month or more.  The Washington-based railroad, which has never made money,
gets 12 percent of its operating budget and most capital and
debt-service funding from U.S. appropriations funneled through
the Transportation Department. Some are scheduled to be paid
quarterly while others are reimbursements, all of which have
been cut off for now.  “At some point, I don’t know whether it’s weeks or months,
they have a real problem,” said Mortimer Downey, a former
member of Amtrak’s board and a former deputy U.S. transportation
secretary. “If there’s nobody at DOT, there’s nobody to pay
them reimbursements.”  Ticket revenue for Amtrak may also decline, further
crimping cash flow, with government workers not traveling, said
Ross Capon, president of the National Association of Railroad
Passengers, a Washington-based advocacy group.  Washington is Amtrak’s second-busiest  market  by ticket
sales after New York, with 5 million passengers a year coming or
going from the city’s Union Station.  “I think three or four weeks is probably a non-event, but
when it starts going beyond that, it gets to be serious,” Capon
said in a phone interview. “At some point, and I expect it’s
well beyond four weeks, I would think there’s a question about
whether the company survives.”  Steve Kulm, an Amtrak spokesman, declined to say when
Amtrak may run out of cash or be unable to run all of its routes
if the shutdown continues.  Cash Flow  The railroad, which carried a record 31.2 million
passengers in the 2012 fiscal year, said in a Sept. 30 statement
it would continue normal operations during a “short-term”
government shutdown.  Lisa Jenkins, a Washington-based analyst for Standard &
Poor’s, said in a report Oct. 2 that Amtrak can operate and meet
its debt obligations “for at least several weeks” with cash it
has on hand and generates from operations.  “We will continue to monitor the company’s liquidity in
the absence of government funding,” wrote Jenkins, who said
Amtrak’s credit rating is unaffected for now. “We could
reevaluate our view of the government shutdown’s impact on the
company’s ratings depending on the length of the shutdown.”  Jenkins rates Amtrak debt A- or “stable.” She declined to
comment beyond the report.  Amtrak said in a Sept. 27  report  that it had $800 million
in current assets to cover about $1.1 billion in current
liabilities, though that ratio has been improving along with
ridership.  Cost Cutting  Amtrak has little authority to trim operations to cut costs
because of contracts with states and labor unions, Capon said.
On the Northeast Corridor between Washington and  Boston , it
wouldn’t make sense to cut service because those trains bring in
enough revenue to cover operating expenses.  Amtrak’s auditor in its most recent annual report warned of
the risk posed by the uncertainty of U.S. taxpayer funding,
after delays in appropriations bills earlier this year and last
year.  “Without the receipt of federal government funding, Amtrak
will not be able to continue in its current form and significant
operating changes, restructuring or bankruptcy might occur,” an
auditor’s letter in the  report  said.  Railroad officials are used to Congress rarely completing
appropriations on time, Kulm said in an e-mail.  “The juggling of short-term continuing resolutions means
we often don’t get a final federal appropriation until well into
the fiscal year, which makes budgeting and long-term planning
challenging,” he said.  State Deadlines  Apart from the shutdown, Amtrak is dealing with uncertainty
over how to keep operating routes in 19 states that carry half
its annual ridership.  A 2008 law reauthorizing Amtrak gave states and the
railroad five years to decide how to share costs of operating
routes that are less than 750 miles and outside the Northeast
Corridor. The requirement applies to 28 routes.  The deadline is Oct. 16. Three states have yet to sign
agreements to keep paying the majority of the costs for
operating services.  New York announced an agreement yesterday to cover about
$22 million in costs this fiscal year to keep operating the
Empire, Adirondack, Maple Leaf and Ethan Allen lines. It costs
about Amtrak $100 million a year to operate the four routes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  