-- Animal Vaccines May Be Stalled by Shutdown, Poultry Groups Say
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-10-04T20:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/animal-vaccines-may-be-stalled-by-shutdown-poultry-groups-say.html
A prolonged U.S. government shutdown
may stall delivery of vaccines that poultry, cattle and hog
companies need for  food safety  and animal health, three poultry
groups said in a letter to congressional members today.  Employees of the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  who analyze
samples from companies and approve the release of vaccines for
commercial sale have been furloughed this week as part of the
shutdown, according to a letter sent today by the U.S. Poultry &
Egg Association, National Chicken Council and National Turkey
Federation to House Agriculture Committee Chairman  Frank Lucas 
and other members of Congress.  “Two weeks of stalled vaccine delivery will directly
impact food safety, animal health and bio-security,” according
to the letter. “Because producers hold limited supply of these
vaccines, many of the large poultry, swine and cattle companies
will be out of critical vaccine in a matter of days.”  Previously, the USDA deemed the function “essential” like
federal inspectors at meat plants, according to the council’s
 website . So far the furloughed USDA employees haven’t affected
operations among meat and poultry suppliers, which have access
to stockpiles of vaccinations.  “Currently, there is enough supply in the system,”  Farha Aslam , a New York-based analyst for Stephens Inc., said in a
telephone interview today. “If the government shutdown is
extended then animal-production systems could be impacted.”  Cargill, Sanderson  Cargill Inc., the second-largest beef producer and fourth-largest pork processor in the U.S., has at least a 60-day supply
of vaccines available for its turkeys, hogs and cattle, Mike
Martin, a spokesman for the Minneapolis-based company, said in
an e-mail today.  Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM) , the third-largest U.S. chicken
producer, expects its supplies to last more than two weeks, Mike Cockrell, chief financial officer of the Laurel, Mississippi-based company, said in an e-mail today.  “We have ample supplies on hand and have no reason to
believe that our suppliers will be unable to produce already
approved medications,” he said.  Matt Paul, a USDA spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to
a request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  