-- Markets Suggest Debt-Ceiling Compromise, Pimco’s El-Erian Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-10-04T16:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/markets-suggest-debt-ceiling-compromise-pimco-s-el-erian-says.html
Financial markets suggest that most
investors anticipate that U.S. lawmakers will raise the limit on
the nation’s debt and avoid a default on  government securities ,
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian said.  “The alternative would be too awful to contemplate,” El-Erian, chief executive and co-chief investment officer at the
world’s biggest manager of bond mutual funds, said on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . “Most people in
the market think we will avoid a debt-ceiling debacle.”  A partial U.S. government shutdown entered a fourth day
amid wrangling by lawmakers over the budget and debt limit.
The U.S. will run out of borrowing authority Oct. 17 and will
have $30 billion in cash after that. The country would be unable
to pay all of its bills sometime between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 0.6 percent to
1,689.36 at 12:29 p.m. in New York, while the Stoxx Europe 600
Index climbed 0.1 percent. The yield on 10-year Treasuries
increased four basis points to 2.65 percent.  The Treasury Department yesterday released a report about
the consequences of reaching the debt ceiling, saying it may
have catastrophic results that last decades, such as higher
 interest rates  and slower economic growth.  ‘Quite Catastrophic’  “If the debt ceiling gets taken hostage by politicians,
you will see a much different reaction,” El-Erian said from
Pimco’s headquarters in Newport Beach, California. “The market
expects as we get closer to Oct. 17 some realism will start
occurring on  Capitol Hill  and politicians will avoid what
potentially could be quite catastrophic both for the U.S. and
the global economy.”  Some concern can be seen in the bills market, El-Erian
said. Rates on Treasury bills that mature Oct. 24 traded at 0.13
percent today, compared with negative 0.01 percent on Sept. 27,
as investors demanded extra compensation for the risk of holding
the securities. One-month rates touched 0.19 percent today,
matching a 45-month high reached in November 2012, while rates
on three-month bills were 0.03 percent, the biggest inversion of
the spread since September 2008.  Bill Gross , founder of Pimco and co-chief executive
officer, reiterated in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  that
investors should focus on purchasing short-term debt that will
benefit from the market’s mispricing of when the  Federal Reserve 
will eventually increase borrowing rates.  The  federal funds rate target  will be 2 percent at the end
of 2016, according to the median of estimates by Fed board
members and regional presidents detailed on Sept. 18 in the
central bank’s quarterly Summary of Economic Projections.  The $250 billion Total Return Fund managed by Gross has
gained 2.3 percent in the past month,  outperforming  98 percent
of comparable funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The fund has returned 7.8 percent on an annual basis in the past
five years, placing it in the 88 percentile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  