-- Tarkett Files for IPO as KKR Exits French Floor Maker
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-10-04T11:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/tarkett-files-for-ipo-as-kkr-exits-french-floor-maker.html
Tarkett SA took the first regulatory
step toward selling shares in an initial public offering as 50
percent-owner  KKR & Co. (KKR)  seeks to exit the French floor maker
amid rising valuations of building product companies.  Tarkett, which is also owned by the Deconinck family,
registered the IPO documents with  France ’s AMF market regulator
yesterday to sell shares on the  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  exchange in Paris,
the company said in a statement today. Based on valuations of
competitors, an IPO may value Tarkett at between $2.5 billion
and $3.8 billion, a person familiar with the plan said earlier
this year.  IPO volumes in Europe rose sixfold last quarter, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, as investors responded to a
strengthening economy. Tarkett’s sales rose 11 percent to 2.3
billion euros ($3.1 billion) last year, helped by acquisitions
and demand in Eastern Europe, Asia and North America.  “There are signs in the large European countries that
we’re at the start of a cyclical recovery,” Michael Watts, a
London-based Berenberg analyst, said by phone. “Shares of many
building product and distribution companies are fairly close to
recent highs.”  Family Control  Tarkett, based in the Paris suburb of Nanterre, has been
jointly owned by KKR, the private-equity firm run by Henry Kravis and  George Roberts , and the Deconinck family since 2007.
KKR will sell some of its shares in the IPO, while the Deconinck
family will buy additional ones to increase its stake to more
than 50 percent, Tarkett Chief Executive Officer Michel Giannuzzi said at a press conference in Paris today.  The company is the world’s third-largest maker of flooring
products for residential and commercial markets after  Mohawk
Industries Inc. (MHK)  and  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Shaw Industries
Group, Giannuzzi said.  Tarkett joins French cable TV operator Numericable SAS and
battery company Blue Solutions in seeking to list this quarter.
The deals will mark a return in activity in France’s capital
markets, where the last sizeable deal was in December 2009 when
automotive distributor CFAO SA raised 927 million euros ($1.3
billion) including an over-allotment option in an IPO, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tarkett’s Earnings  KKR is planning to raise about 500 million euros through
the IPO, people with knowledge of the matter said in June.
Giannuzzi declined to comment on how much the IPO may raise.  Tarkett last year had adjusted earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of 260 million euros. Its
Ebitda rose 19 percent in the first half of 2013, helped by
productivity gains and the acquisition last year of Tandus, a
specialist in commercial carpet flooring in North America.  Mohawk Industries, whose shares have risen 45 percent this
year, and Swiss competitor Forbo Holding AG, which has gained 22
percent, respectively trade at 12.4 and 8.5 times estimated 2013
Ebitda, according to Bloomberg data.  Tarkett aims for a profit margin of more than 12 percent on
that basis over the 2012 to 2016 period, during which
acquisitions may add about 300 million euros in sales. The
dividend policy will be to pay out about 40 percent of net
income.  The company today didn’t give details on the timing of the
IPO and said the process is subject to market conditions and
approval by the AMF.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  