-- Asia Stocks Fall as Treasury Warns of U.S. Impasse Impact
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-10-04T10:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/asia-stocks-fall-as-treasury-warns-of-u-s-impasse-impact.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
index posting its first weekly loss in more than a month, as
concern grew that the U.S. political impasse could lead to the
government defaulting on its debt.  Blumont Group Ltd. (BLUM) , which invests in minerals and energy
resources, slumped 56 percent in  Singapore  before trading was
suspended after it agreed to buy an unnamed overseas coal
producer.  Digital Garage Inc. (4819)  sank 10 percent after a Twitter
Inc. filing failed to mention the Tokyo-based company as a
shareholder. Universal Robina Corp. slipped 4.9 percent after
parent JG Summit Holdings Inc. sold shares of the Philippine
food and beverage company at a discount.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index lost 0.3 percent to 139.04 as
of 7:37 p.m. in  Tokyo , with nine of the 10 industry groups on
the gauge falling. U.S. President  Barack Obama  canceled plans to
attend two economic summits in Asia next week as the fiscal
standoff with congressional Republicans kept the U.S. government
partially shuttered.  “Creeping worries about the U.S. debt ceiling are starting
to unnerve investors,”  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at
Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington, wrote in an e-mail to
clients. “Expect more whippy and nervous trading.”  The Asia-Pacific gauge lost 1.3 percent this week as the
failure of U.S. lawmakers to avert a government shutdown fueled
concern they won’t be able to agree on raising the nation’s
$16.7 trillion debt limit later this month. The Treasury
Department warned that a federal default could lead to a
recession as bad as the 2008 financial crisis or worse.  Relative Value  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has advanced 7.5 percent so far
this year, pushing valuations on the regional gauge to 13.4
 times  estimated earnings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 15.1 for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 14.1 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, the data show.  Japan ’s Topix index dropped 0.9 percent. The  Bank of Japan 
today maintained its monetary policy at the end of a two-day
meeting, as economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast.  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index lost 0.2 percent and Australia’s
 S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  retreated 0.5 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng
Index fell 0.3 percent. Singapore’s Straits Times Index slipped
0.2 percent and South Korea’s Kospi index declined 0.1 percent.
Taiwan’s Taiex index added 0.1 percent. China’s markets are
closed for holidays until Oct. 8.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex Index
gained 0.1 percent.  Futures on the  S&P 500  rose 0.2 percent today. The gauge
declined 0.9 percent yesterday, the most in a month, as Treasury
said the government will run out of borrowing authority Oct. 17,
leaving only cash to pay the bills.  ‘Catastrophic Effect’  “Not only might the economic consequences of default be
profound, those consequences, including high  interest rates ,
reduced investment, higher debt payments and slow economic
growth could last for more than a generation,” the Treasury
said in its report.  “In the event that a debt limit impasse were to lead to a
default, it could have a catastrophic effect on not just
financial markets but also on  job creation ,  consumer spending 
and economic growth -- with many private-sector analysts
believing that it would lead to events of the magnitude of late
2008 or worse, and the result then was a recession more severe
than any seen since the Great Depression,” the department said.  U.S. Payrolls  A report yesterday showed fewer Americans than forecast
filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week. Jobless
claims rose to 308,000 in the week ended Sept. 28, from a
revised 307,000, the Labor Department said. The median forecast
of 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an increase to
315,000.  U.S. payrolls data won’t be released as scheduled today
because of the government shutdown. The department said that an
alternative date for the September payrolls report and jobless
rate hasn’t been scheduled.  “The absence of the U.S. jobs data creates uncertainty,
which is reflected generally in greater equity market
volatility,” said Chad Padowitz, Melbourne-based chief
investment officer at Wingate Asset Management. “The longer the
current situation holds, the less information people know about
what’s happening in the underlying economy.”  Blumont tumbled 56 percent to 88 Singapore cents before
trading was suspended. The company said today it will issue new
shares at S$2.02 to fund the acquisition of an unnamed coal
company traded overseas for as much as S$145.9 million ($117
million).  Trading Suspensions  Blumont was among three commodity investors suspended by in
Singapore today after shares plunged. “This is to safeguard the
interests of the markets as there could be circumstances that
would result in the market not being fully informed,” Singapore
Exchange Ltd. said in a statement.  Digital Garage dropped 10 percent to 2,817 yen in Tokyo.
Investors were expecting that Twitter would disclose that the
company is a shareholder, David Gibson, an analyst at Macquarie
Securities based in Tokyo, said in a telephone interview.
Twitter filed an S-1 with the Securities and Exchange Commission
in the U.S. that listed major individual shareholders and
institutional shareholders with stakes of more than 5 percent.  Universal Robina declined 4.9 percent to 117 pesos in
 Manila . Parent JG Summit raised about 12 billion pesos ($278
million) from the sale of 105 million Universal Robina shares at
115 pesos each, according to a stock exchange filing today. That
was a 6.5 percent discount to yesterday’s closing price. The
Philippine Stock Exchange Index rose less than 0.1 percent.  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674) , a Japanese maker of batteries, fell 2.6
percent to 608 yen after Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities lowered its rating to neutral from outperform.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien in Wellington at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  