-- Asia-Pacific Bond Sales Drop as Risk Rises Amid U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-10-04T05:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/asia-pacific-bond-sales-drop-as-risk-rises-amid-u-s-shutdown.html
Issuance of U.S. dollar-denominated
bonds in the Asia-Pacific region including  Japan  plummeted 72
percent this week and credit risk rose as the U.S. budget
impasse stoked investor concern.  Sales slid to $2.75 billion from $9.9 billion in the five-day period ended Sept. 27, the highest since July 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Markit iTraxx  Asia 
index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside Japan added 2
basis points to 153 basis points as of 8:23 a.m. in Hong Kong,
set for its second straight weekly gain, prices from Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and data provider CMA show.  Corporate bond sales in the U.S. plunged 81 percent this
week as the first partial government shutdown in 17 years
paralyzed the market. Some borrowers, including  China 
Petrochemical Corp., are considering sales of international
bonds, and the drop in issuance shouldn’t be read as a sign of
supply for the rest of the month, said Krishna Hegde, the
Singapore-based head of Asia credit research at Barclays Plc. No
notes were issued Oct. 1, a holiday in China and  Hong Kong .  “A combination of the holiday in Hong Kong and the U.S.
shutdown are not helping the bond supply this week,” Hegde
said. “We are still expecting a lot of issuance this month
since borrowing costs in many segments of the market are still
attractive for issuers.”  ICBC Bond  Average dollar note yields in Asia fell to  5.33 percent  on
Oct. 3, the lowest since Sept. 26, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. indexes. In addition to Asia’s largest refiner known as
Sinopec, Greenland Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. and SK Broadband Co.
also said they are considering offering global bonds.  Origin Energy Ltd. led sales this week with an $800 million
issue of 3.5 percent notes, the data show.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
most profitable lender, sold Asia’s first dollar bond that is
Basel III-compliant, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That $500 million of 10-year securities pays 315 basis points
more than Treasuries.  The cost of insuring company and sovereign bonds against
non-payment in the Asia-Pacific region rose, according to
traders of credit-default swaps.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index jumped 2 basis points to
122 as of 10:34 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking
Corp. prices. The measure is poised for its third weekly rise,
according to CMA  The Markit iTraxx Japan index added 1.5 basis points to
93.75 basis points as of 9:42 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to
Citigroup Inc. prices. The gauge is set for its biggest daily
gain since Sept. 30, CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  