-- Aussie Gains on Bets RBA Won’t Cut Interest Rates in ’13
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-10-04T06:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/australian-dollar-set-for-weekly-gain-as-rba-seen-holding-rates.html
Australia’s dollar climbed to the
strongest in almost two weeks as traders bets reflected
increased expectations the  Reserve Bank  won’t cut borrowing
costs this year, buoying demand for the currency.  The Aussie headed for a five-day gain versus most of its
major peers before a private report next week on  service
industries  in China, Australia’s biggest trading partner. New
Zealand’s currency has risen this week, rebounding from a loss
in the period through Sept. 27 that was the biggest in a month.  “We’ve shifted up our year-end forecast for the Australian
dollar,” said  Robert Rennie , the Sydney-based chief currency
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , which sees the Aussie at 95
U.S. cents by Dec. 31 from 92 cents previously. “Australian
households are showing less signs of  risk aversion . We’ve seen
signs of stabilization and improvement in China.”  The Aussie added 0.6 percent to 94.46 U.S. cents at 4:40
p.m. in Sydney, after touching 94.48 cents, the strongest since
Sept. 23. It’s up 1.4 percent this week. New Zealand’s currency
gained 0.3 percent to 83.19 U.S. cents from yesterday and has
climbed 0.6 percent since Sept. 27. It weakened 1.1 percent last
week, the most since the period ended Aug. 23.  Australia’s  10-year (GACGB10)  government bond yield touched 4.07
percent, the highest since Sept. 18. The yield on three-year
debt peaked at 3.01 percent, a level unseen since Sept. 11. New
Zealand’s two-year  swap rate , a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates, was little changed at 3.46 percent.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 69 percent chance the RBA will keep its benchmark at 2.5
percent by its Dec. 3 meeting, up from 62 percent a month ago.  Cut Delayed  Westpac pushed back its forecasts for rate reductions by
the RBA to February and May, from an earlier prediction of a 25-basis-point cut in November and another one in February,
according to a report yesterday. National Australia Bank Ltd.
also revised this week the timing of its call for a cut in
borrowing costs to February, from November previously.  Markit Economics and HSBC Holdings Plc will on Oct. 8
release their September reading for Chinese services activity.
The measure climbed to a five-month high in August. Government
figures released yesterday showed a  similar index  climbed last
month to the highest since March.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  raised its year-end
forecasts for the Australian and New Zealand dollars.  The nation’s biggest lender now sees the Aussie at 94 cents
by Dec. 31, from 92 previously. It cited a “reduced rate of
appreciation” in the  U.S. dollar  and “the end of the modest
three-year cyclical growth slowdown in  China’s economy ,”
according to an e-mailed note today by analysts including
 Richard Grace , the bank’s Sydney-based chief currency strategist
and head of international economics.  CBA predicts the kiwi will end 2013 at 83 cents, from a
previous estimate of 78, saying it expects the  Reserve Bank of
New Zealand  to start raising borrowing costs in March. Traders
see a 65 percent chance officials will boost the benchmark to
2.75 percent or higher by then, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  