-- Maynilad Water Disputes Tariff-Cut Order at Chamber of Commerce
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-10-04T10:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/maynilad-water-disputes-tariff-cut-order-at-chamber-of-commerce.html
Maynilad Water Services Inc., the
 Manila water  utility with the most customers, disputed a
regulatory order to reduce prices, saying rates should instead
be raised.  Maynilad filed a dispute notice with the  International
Chamber of Commerce , parent company  Metro Pacific Investments
Corp. (MPI)  said today in a filing. The notice starts the arbitration
process with the Metropolitan Waterworks & Sewerage System.  The Philippine water regulator instructed Maynilad and
 Manila Water Co. (MWC)  to reduce their tariffs on Sept. 12, dismissing
requests from both utilities to increase rates. The order
followed a pledge by lawmakers to investigate allegations that
the water companies had passed 15 billion pesos ($348 million)
of income-tax expenses and other costs on to consumers.  A three-member panel will conduct arbitration proceedings
in accordance with United Nations trading rules, Maynilad said
today. The utility and the regulator will each appoint one
member to the panel, whose leader will be appointed by the
chairman of the chamber of commerce, it said.  The regulator on Sept. 12 told Maynilad to cut rates by 4.8
percent over the next five years. It ordered Manila Water, a
unit of  Ayala Corp. (AC) , to reduce tariffs by 29 percent.  “Unless otherwise ordered by the Appeals Panel, the
current water rates will continue to apply pending the final
decision,” Maynilad said today in a separate statement.  Both utilities have said raising tariffs would help fund as
much as 1.1 trillion pesos in investments until 2037. Manila
Water filed a similar dispute notice to the International
Chamber of Commerce on Sept. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  