-- Berlusconi to Face Senate Ouster Vote After Losing Bid
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-10-04T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/berlusconi-to-face-senate-ouster-vote-after-losing-bid.html
An Italian Senate committee
recommended that former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi be
expelled from parliament for violating anti-corruption laws,
allowing for a decisive vote in the full chamber in coming
weeks.  The 23-member committee for immunities and elections
rejected Berlusconi’s defense and, after a six-hour closed-door
meeting yesterday, decided to push for his ouster. Senate
Speaker Pietro Grasso will schedule a definitive vote in the
full chamber after Dario Stefano, chairman of the panel, submits
a report.  Berlusconi, 77, faces expulsion because his criminal tax-fraud conviction was rendered definitive in August by Italy’s
Supreme Court. Lawmakers in Berlusconi’s People of Liberty
failed to halt proceedings against him as Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s Democratic Party, or PD, teamed up with the biggest
opposition party to push for the ouster.  “The PD will vote together for the expulsion of Silvio
Berlusconi from the Senate,” Felice Casson, a member of the
committee, said in a statement on the PD website.  Italian 10-year bond yields fell 7 basis points to 4.3
percent yesterday, bringing the decline for the week to 26 basis
points.  The ruling yesterday was Berlusconi’s second setback of the
week, coming two days after his attempt to topple Letta was
sabotaged by senior People of Liberty lawmakers. The three-time
ex-premier was deserted by Deputy Prime Minister Angelino
Alfano, the party’s general secretary, who led a group of
dissidents into ensuring the survival of Letta’s government.  Reiterated Innocence  Berlusconi, the world’s 168th wealthiest person, according
to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, reiterated his innocence.  “This unworthy decision wasn’t the result of a correct
application of the law, but of a specific desire to eliminate a
political adversary by the justice system,” Berlusconi said in
an e-mailed statement.  People of Liberty, or PDL, is outnumbered in the upper
house and will need rival senators to break ranks in order to
block the vote against Berlusconi in that chamber. The PDL holds
91 of the Senate’s 321 seats, while the PD has 108. Beppe
Grillo’s Five Star Movement, the opposition party that has sided
with the PD on this issue, has 50 senators and former Prime
Minister Mario Monti’s Civic Choice, also pushing for
Berlusconi’s expulsion, has 20.  Prison Sentence  Berlusconi was sentenced to four years in prison in the
tax-fraud case, which stems from evasion in 2002 and 2003 at his
 Mediaset SpA (MS)  television broadcaster. While he is unlikely to
serve a day in jail due his age and leniency guidelines, the
anti-corruption law passed in December imposes a six-year office
ban on people sentenced to prison terms of more than two years.  Berlusconi’s lawyers argued unsuccessfully before the panel
that the law shouldn’t be applied to crimes and convictions that
originated before its creation. While the tax-fraud case is
Berlusconi’s only definitive guilty verdict, he is appealing
separate convictions for illegal use of wiretaps, paying a minor
for sex and abuse of office. He has denied all charges.  The Senate must conclude the process within the next 20
days and will probably schedule the decisive vote on Oct. 14, Il
Sole 24 Ore reported, without citing anyone. Stefano declined to
specify the exact timing, while indicating that his report for
Grasso would be ready in a matter of hours, not days.  “The rules say we have 20 days,” Stefano said to
reporters. “I’ll tell you that, by way of an estimate, I don’t
know how many hours it will take me to write the report.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  