-- Billie Sings the Blues; ‘Bad Jews’ Again: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-10-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/billie-sings-the-blues-bad-jews-again-jeremy-gerard.html
Singer Dee Dee Bridgewater does a
fine impersonation of jazz vocalist  Billie Holiday  in “Lady
Day” at the Little Shubert Theatre in Times Square.  The familiar numbers are here: torchy (“Lover Man,”
“Violets for Your Furs”); swinging (“Rhythm is Our
Business,” “Swing, Brother, Swing”) and, especially, haunting
(“Strange Fruit”).  More important, Bridgewater is backed by a dazzling, keenly
attuned jazz quartet comprising the veteran pianist Bill Jolly,
Neil Johnson on saxophone, James Cammack on bass and Jerome
Jennings on drums.  If only Stephen Stahl’s idiotic script weren’t attached to
the proceedings. Like the similarly sordid “End of the
Rainbow” about  Judy Garland , “Lady Day” uses the pretext of a
London concert to show a great star in the throes of a drugs-and-alcohol-induced nervous breakdown.  And so Bridgewater must enact the physical and sexual
abuses of the singer’s childhood, her first experience with
heroin, etc. I can only imagine it’s as excruciating to perform
such necrophiliac acts as it is to watch them. Thrilling as it
is, the music in the end neither justifies nor suffices.  At the Little Shubert Theatre, 422 W. 42nd St. Information:
+1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: *  ‘Bad Jews’  The  Roundabout  has moved “Bad Jews,” its off-Broadway hit
of last season, from the tiny Underground space to the Laura
Pels Theatre. The larger venue magnifies the  fault lines  in
Joshua Harmon’s squirm-inducing comedy while introducing a
talented and provocative new writer to a wider audience.  Slacker Jonah Haber and his confrontational cousin Daphna
Feygenbaum have just returned to the Riverside Drive studio
apartment his parents have bought him. Daphna is crashing there
after the funeral of their beloved grandfather.  Fireworks start almost immediately with the arrival of
Jonah’s brother Liam and his Gentile girlfriend Melody, a blank
slate, though generous of heart.  They were skiing in Aspen and
missed the funeral.  Daphna, who got religion on a trip to  Israel , lays claim to
a chai medallion (chai is the two-letter Hebrew word for
“life”) that the grandfather hid in his mouth through the
Holocaust. But he bequeathed it to Liam, an atheist who buys
Christmas trees.  Intellectual Equals  Their increasingly vicious exchanges will be discomfiting
to anyone who has struggled with the issues of religious
enfranchisement and assimilation.  Under Daniel Aukin’s direction, these unlikable but
challenging characters have expanded into caricatures. The
biggest casualty of the change is Tracee Chimo’s Daphna, a Koren
cartoon who insults with abandon and harangues with her mouth
open and full as she furiously brushes the rat’s nest of hair
atop her head.  At the Laura Pels Theatre, 111 W. 46th St. Information: +1-212-719-1300;  http://www.roundabouttheatre.org . Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and  New York   Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 