-- BlackBerry to Gold Slump as U.S. Lures Demand
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-10-04T20:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/blackberry-to-gold-slump-as-u-s-lures-demand-corporate-canada.html
Mutual fund investors are on pace to
sell Canadian stocks for the 10th straight quarter as slumps in
shares from  Detour Gold Corp. (DGC)  to  BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)  weigh on the
developed world’s third-worst performing equity market.  Canadians sold about C$780 million ($755 million) worth of
domestic equity mutual funds in July and August, according to
the latest data available from the Investment Funds Institute of
 Canada . Inflows into domestic funds last exceeded outflows in
the first quarter of 2011. Canadian funds focused on U.S.
holdings were the main beneficiary, taking in C$1.79 billion
over the same two months.  “The bulk of the assets are going into non-domestic
equities and it really speaks to our view that Canadian
equities, for at least the balance of this year, will be a bumpy
road forward,” said Shailesh Kshatriya, senior investment
analyst with Russell Investments Group, in a phone interview
from Toronto on Oct. 1. “Earnings momentum is not there in the
domestic equity market and we’re likely not to see robust growth
in the third quarter when the results come in.”  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index has advanced 2.6
percent this year, trailing all 24 developed markets except  Hong
Kong  and  Singapore  as global growth on pace for its slowest
advance since 2009 restrains prices for commodities, including
copper and gold. The benchmark equity gauge is headed for a
third year of underperformance  against  the  S&P 500 , which has
jumped 19 percent this year.  Gold Slump  Year-to-date net redemptions of Canadian equity funds with
at least 90 percent Canadian holdings stood at C$3.57 billion,
compared with net sales of U.S. equity funds of C$5.17 billion.
Investors have been selling more Canadian mutual funds than
buying them annually since at least 2010, the data show.  “Given the U.S. market’s dramatic outperformance of Canada
since 2011, and the proximity of Canada to the U.S., it doesn’t
surprise us Canadian investors are getting more active with U.S.
stocks,” said  Brian Belski , chief investment strategist with
BMO Capital Markets, in a phone interview from Toronto on Oct.
1. “Gold has really been hurting the Canadian markets in the
first two quarters this year.”  Materials stocks, which  made  up 13 percent of the index as
of yesterday, have plunged 30 percent in 2013, the worst decline
among 10 industries in the S&P/TSX. Gold  prices  have slumped 21
percent this year as economic growth softened, reducing its
demand as an inflation hedge.  China Slowdown  Industrial metals such as copper and silver have fallen
into bear markets as growth in  China , the world’s largest
consumer of raw materials, is forecast to slow to 7.6 percent in
2013, 7.4 percent in 2014 and 7.15 percent in 2015 from 7.7
percent in 2012, according to the average estimates of 57
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Global growth this year is
forecast to advance 2 percent, the weakest since a 2.4 percent
contraction in 2009, according to forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The Canadian market going forward will be contingent on
global growth outlooks, and developed markets like the U.S.
still look more consistent than global growth in general,
especially  emerging markets ,” Belski said.  Nine of the 10 worst-performing  stocks  in the S&P/TSX this
year are mining companies.  Detour Gold, the mining company backed by hedge-fund
manager  John Paulson , has posted the biggest decline in the
index, tumbling 66 percent this year through yesterday.  “Detour Gold is ramping up a mine in an environment where
the gold price is falling,” Laurie Gaborit, a spokeswoman with
the company said in a phone interview from Toronto. The company
on Aug. 14 forecast gold production of 270,000 ounces in 2013,
the lower end of its previous estimates, Gaborit said.  BlackBerry  BlackBerry, the struggling smartphone maker seeking to sell
itself, was the third-worst performing stock in the S&P/TSX in
the third quarter, plunging 27 percent. BlackBerry, based in
Waterloo, said Sept. 23 it had agreed to a tentative $4.7
billion deal to sell itself to a group led by Prem Watsa’s
 Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) , the company’s largest
shareholder.  BlackBerry also reported disappointing second-quarter
 earnings  and said it would cut about 4,500 jobs.  Bob Decker , a fund manager with Aurion Capital Management
in Toronto, said his firm benefited from a rally in Air Canada,
one of his biggest holdings outside of the banks.  “We knocked it out of the park,” Decker said. “It had
been pretty dark days for the past few years until this most
recent quarter.”  Rebound Ready  The nation’s largest airline, Air Canada gained 47 percent
in the latest quarter and is up 157 percent this year, making it
the best-performing stock in the index.  Air Canada said yesterday its third-quarter adjusted net
income will be higher than last year, and reported third-quarter
load factor of 86.2 percent, in line with a record 86.3 percent
in the same period in 2012. The stock climbed 13 percent to
C$4.49 at 4 p.m. in Toronto today, for the highest closing level
since November 2008.  The company also reported better-than-estimated second-quarter earnings and was added to the S&P/TSX Composite on Sept.
20.  Craig Fehr , Canadian market strategist with Edward Jones &
Co. in  St. Louis , said domestic outflows from Canada into the
U.S. will reverse themselves as the global economy recovers.  “The TSX is an area where you do want ample
representation, particularly as we see an upturn in global
growth, those sectors that have been pulling down the domestic
index will start to become the leaders,” Fehr said. “Some of
the trends occurring in  Europe  and in emerging markets in terms
of stabilization, that should be reflected in globally cyclical,
resource-sensitive names and the TSX is uniquely positioned for
that.”  Earnings Growth  The turn may have already begun as the S&P/TSX rallied 5.4
percent in the third quarter, the best return since the quarter
ended Sept. 30, 2012, as crude oil gained amid tensions in
 Syria , Kshatriya said.  Earnings for the S&P/TSX are  forecast  to jump 9.5 percent
to C$870 at the end of 2013, according to the average estimate
of four strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Anish Chopra,  fund manager  with TD Asset Management Inc.,
said the Canadian market is unlikely to break out soon from its
middling performance relative to the U.S. as past sources of
strength, including a run-up in commodities on emerging market
growth and a boom in the housing market driving bank earnings,
have largely run their course.  “The U.S. has certain factors which are in the earlier
innings, such as housing, the auto sector, energy production,”
Chopra said. His firm manages about C$216 billion. “In Canada,
our factors are in the later stages.”  The best of the gains for the S&P/TSX may already be past.
The index is forecast to end at 12,783 points by the end of
2013, little changed from yesterday’s close of 12,735.12,
according to the average estimate of six strategists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  