-- BlackBerry Drop Reveals Biggest Discount of North American Deals
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-10-04T17:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/blackberry-drop-reveals-biggest-discount-of-north-american-deals.html
Investors are growing more skeptical
that a tentative $4.7 billion bid for smartphone maker
 BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)  will succeed, with the  stock trading  at the
biggest discount among similar North American takeovers.  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) ’s $9-a-share tentative
offer for BlackBerry is 17 percent higher than the current stock
price, the widest spread of 109 announced deals worth $1 billion
or more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. BlackBerry
fell 0.4 percent to $7.70 at 1 p.m. in  New York , dropping its
market value to $4 billion. The stock closed at $7.69.  The slide reflects shareholder concerns about Fairfax Chief
Executive Officer  Prem Watsa ’s ability to secure his partners’
commitment and financing before a Nov. 4 deadline. Watsa said
when he announced the Sept. 23 offer that he had yet to secure
financing and would only name his partners after they had done
the due diligence and were fully committed.  “The reservations are adding up,”  Sachin Shah , a
strategist in special situations and merger arbitrage at New
York-based Albert Fried & Co., said in a telephone interview.
“It keeps on trading based on people’s interpretation of what
other people think is going to happen rather than what Prem is
saying will happen.”  Since Toronto-based Fairfax announced its letter of intent,
BlackBerry has given more details about its deteriorating
financial situation. The Waterloo, Ontario-based company said in
an Oct. 1 filing that it will record costs of about $400 million
this fiscal year and early next year, four times the amount it
originally projected, as it cuts staff by 40 percent and sells
equipment and real estate.  The stock has tumbled 35 percent this year and is trading
95 percent off its 2008 peak.  Lower Bid  The trading gap also may reflect concern that Fairfax will
lower its bid given the company’s deteriorating prospects, said
 Michael Walkley , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity.  “The most likely outcome for BlackBerry is a sale to
Fairfax Financial and its partners at a lower price of $7 post
further diligence,” he said in a note this week.  BlackBerry has drawn interest from private-equity firm
Cerberus Capital Management LP, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter. Cerberus is looking to sign a
confidentiality agreement with BlackBerry that would give it
access to additional financial data, the person said.  “Unless you have a definitive merger agreement in place,
financing lined up and, for that matter, a strategic buyer or
party interested or involved, the market’s perception is not
likely to change,” Shah said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  