-- Buffett Says Debt-Ceiling Politics Should Be Banned Like A-Bomb
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-10-04T18:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/buffett-says-debt-ceiling-politics-should-be-banned-like-a-bomb.html
Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett 
said politicians should stop using the nation’s borrowing
authority as a bargaining chip in policy debates, comparing the
practice with the threat of dropping a nuclear bomb.  “It ought to be banned as a weapon,” Buffett, 83, said in
an interview with Fortune magazine posted online today. “It
should be like nuclear bombs, basically too horrible to use.”  Republicans in the U.S. House stalled government-funding
measures in an effort to delay or curtail the Affordable Care
Act, President  Barack Obama ’s signature health-insurance law.
The inaction led to a partial government shutdown this week and
the furlough of about 800,000 employees. Congress is also
debating whether to raise the government’s borrowing authority.
Failing to do so by Oct. 17 could trigger a default.  Charles Munger, the vice chairman at Buffett’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , also appeared in the Fortune video. He called the
threat of defaulting on the country’s obligations “deeply
immoral” and criticized the party he has supported.  “We issue the reserve currency of the world,” Munger, 89,
said. “If my Republican friends keep doing this, they’re going
to pay a terrible price.”  Buffett, the world’s fourth-richest person, and Munger are
among financial leaders urging Congress to stop using the
nation’s borrowing authority as a political tool. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  said Oct. 2
after a meeting at the White House that the debt ceiling
shouldn’t be used as a “cudgel.”  Buffett, who said yesterday on CNBC that he didn’t think
politicians would go beyond the point of “extreme idiocy,”
told Fortune that the standoff could serve as a lesson.  “This may be like after we dropped a couple of atomic
bombs,” Buffett said. “We saw that we didn’t want to do it
again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  