-- Buy-Local Rules Make Vestas Wind-Market Loser in Brazil
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-10-04T17:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/buy-local-rules-make-vestas-wind-market-loser-in-brazil.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  and  Suzlon
Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , the two biggest wind-turbine suppliers by sales,
are losing market share in Brazil because they don’t use enough
parts made in South America’s fastest-growing market.  Neither company has landed a new deal in Brazil in more
than 18 months as the country’s development bank BNDES shut off
their access to state-backed debt that’s helped drive an
installation boom. They didn’t get any orders after an August
auction for 1.5 gigawatts of planned wind farms and may be
excluded from two more bids this year, said Helena Chung, a
Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst.  Brazil’s introduction of local-content requirements to spur
domestic manufacturing is reshaping its $2.75 billion wind
industry. Vestas’s share has slumped by a third and Suzlon may
become the first supplier to flee the market because of the
rules. That’s creating an opportunity for companies that meet
the mandates, including Alstom SA and  Acciona SA. (ANA)   “If you want to be in the Brazilian market you have to be
certified by BNDES to sell equipment with the bank’s loans,”
Christiano Forman, Acciona’s business development manager, said
in a telephone interview. The Spanish company received BNDES
approval Sept. 17.  Acciona is a new entrant to Brazil’s wind market. None of
its turbines were in operation there at the end of the second
quarter, and about 290 megawatts of equipment for wind farms
were under construction or permitted. That gives it 3.1 percent
of the country’s total wind market, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. Its products weren’t eligible for BNDES
financing in the Aug. 23 auction and the company expects to
participate in upcoming auctions in November and December,
Forman said.  Early Suppliers  Vestas and Suzlon don’t meet  Brazil ’s local-content
requirements, which means BNDES won’t provide financing to new
customers. The two largest dedicated turbine manufacturers by
sales were early suppliers to Brazil’s wind-power industry and
have furnished the most equipment after Wobben Windpower, a
Brazil-based unit of  Germany ’s Enercon GmbH, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Vestas complies with an old requirement allowing it to
supply projects auctioned before December 2011 with BNDES debt
and is “currently defining a plan to qualify” for a new
requirement, a company official who asked not to be named
because of internal policies, said in an e-mail. The Aarhus,
Denmark-based company “is committed to the Brazilian market,
and we look forward to serving our customers’ needs there.”  Vestas was unchanged at the close in Copenhagen today and
has more than quadrupled this year. Suzlon slipped 1.5 percent
in Mumbai and has fallen 65 percent over the year. The NYSE
Bloomberg Global Wind Energy Index of 71 members has increased
more than 30 percent this year.  No Details  Suzlon’s last new sale in Brazil was in January 2012,
according to data compiled by New Energy Finance. The company
also sold five wind farms in March 2012 that included turbines
originally ordered in January 2011 by the developer,  Portugal ’s
Martifer Group, which sold the projects to Suzlon in October
2011.  Vestas  sold  254 megawatts of turbines to  CPFL Energias
Renovaveis SA (CPRE3)  for two Brazil wind projects in  Rio Grande  do
Norte state in December 2011, the turbine maker said in a
 statement .  Promoting Wind  Brazil is promoting wider use of wind power, which is
cheaper there than conventional sources of power. Wind farms are
expected to produce about 9 percent of the country’s total
electricity in 2021, up from 2 percent last year, according to
the  Ministry of Mines  and Energy’s 10-year plan published in
January. Total wind installations reached 1.08 gigawatts last
year, more than any other Latin American country, according to a
Global Wind Energy Council  report .  Spain ’s Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA got orders for about
315 megawatts of turbines in the August auction, the most of any
supplier, according to a survey by New Energy Finance. The
Zamudio, Spain-based company meets BNDES’s rules and had about
62 megawatts of turbines in operation in Brazil at the end of
June, about 3 percent of the total market. With 848 megawatts
under construction or permitted, its share is tripling to 9.8
percent, and these orders will probably boost that further.  Suzlon had 383 megawatts of turbines in operation at the
end of June, about 18 percent of the market and the most of any
supplier from outside Brazil. With 340 megawatts in construction
and none permitted, its share is slumping to 7.8 percent.  The company probably won’t be able to regain compliance,
said Elbia Melo, president of the Sao Paulo-based wind energy
trade group Associacao Brasileira de Energia Eolica. The company
is the most indebted dedicated turbine maker and failed to repay
$209 million in debt in October,  India ’s largest convertible-bond default.  ‘Definitely’ Leaving  “Suzlon will definitely leave Brazil” because it can’t
afford to build the local factories it needs to meet BNDES’s
mandates, Melo said in a telephone interview. The facilities may
cost as much as $100 million, according to New Energy Finance
estimates.  Suzlon said Brazil is key for its strategy for South and
 Latin America  and qualifying for the new BNDES requirements
remains a priority, according to an emailed response to
questions from  Bloomberg News . The company, based in Pune,
India, declined to elaborate on how it will meet them.  Vestas had 364 megawatts in operation, about 17 percent of
the market, the second biggest supplier from outside Brazil.
With 687 megawatts under construction or planned, its share is
sliding to 11 percent. Wobben, based in Soracaba, Brazil, had
the most turbines in operation with 37 percent of the market.  Market Share  Vestas is boosting sales in the rest of Latin America,
Chung said. The company sold about 632 megawatts of turbines in
Central and  South America , excluding Brazil, since June 2012
after BNDES halted financing. That’s about 75 percent of the
region’s total sales, up from the company’s 15 percent market
share in 2011.  BNDES halted loans last year for developers buying gear
from turbine makers that didn’t get at least 40 percent of their
components from local suppliers. That affected Vestas, Suzlon,
Acciona, Siemens AG and Fuhrlaender AG, which filed for
insolvency in September 2012.  The lender declined to comment on how its policies have
affected Brazil’s wind industry when contacted by Bloomberg
News.  New Rules  BNDES tightened the rules in January and again in July. At
least 70 percent of the steel plates and all the cement used in
towers must now come from within Brazil. Suppliers will need to
start assembling nacelles, the bus-sized assemblies that house
the main machinery, locally by 2015, and should have already
submitted a business plan for the facilities. At least one of
the four main components of the hub must be obtained locally.  Alstom won orders to provide about 11 percent of the
turbines to developers that won contracts in the August auction.
The company was one of the first to receive BNDES approval and
has landed the most contracts in Brazil since January 2012,
according to Chung.  “Brazil is a key market for Alstom,” Marcos Costa,
president of Alstom’s Brazil unit, said in a telephone
interview. “Wind is the fastest-growing  power source  at the
moment and we’re convinced it will remain that way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  