-- HTC Posts Wider-Than-Estimated Quarterly Loss as Sales Slump
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2013-10-04T07:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/htc-posts-third-quarter-loss-as-smartphones-lose-to-samsung.html
HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Taiwan ’s biggest
smartphone maker, posted a third-quarter loss wider than analyst
estimates as its handsets lost market share to devices from
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co.  The company had a net loss of NT$2.97 billion ($101
million) in the three months ended September, Taoyuan City,
Taiwan-based HTC said in an e-mailed statement today. That
compares with the NT$1.71 billion average loss of 16 analyst
estimates and is the first on a consolidated basis since at
least 2008, according to  data compiled  by Bloomberg.  HTC’s flagship One has failed to arrest sliding sales amid
product delays and changes to strategy as it faces intensifying
competition from Chinese producers including Huawei Technologies
Co. The company, which wasn’t among the top five producers in
the second quarter, plans to boost promotion with actor Robert Downey Jr. and add cheaper devices to revive growth.  “HTC needs to figure out if it just wants to focus on the
high-end market or the mid- to low-end segment, and right now it
is missing out on both,” said Wang Wanli, a Taipei-based
analyst at CIMB Securities Ltd. “In the fourth quarter many new
products are in the pipeline, including iPhone, Samsung and
Huawei, HTC only has one new model so they won’t see a strong
pick up.”  Shares of HTC gained 1.5 percent to close at NT$135 in
Taipei. The stock has lost about  80 percent  of its value in the
past two years.  Slumping Sales  The operating loss in the third quarter was NT$3.5 billion
and sales were NT$47 billion, the company said today. Analysts
had projected an operating loss of NT$2.2 billion on sales of
NT$ 54 billion.  HTC, the first maker of phones using Google Inc. software,
in July forecast an eighth straight drop in quarterly sales as
it struggles to compete with Apple and Samsung.  The company was ranked ninth in the global smartphone
market during the second quarter, with 2.8 percent share
compared with 5.8 percent a year earlier, according to data from
Bloomberg Industries and IDC. That compares with 31.7 percent
for Samsung, 13.2 percent for Apple and 4.8 percent for  Lenovo
Group Ltd. (992)   HTC was a contract manufacturer before it began promoting
its own brand in 2006. The company had a short-lived reign at
the top of the U.S. market in the third quarter of 2011, when it
accounted for 24 percent of smartphone shipments, according to
researcher Canalys.  The company in February 2012 said it had “dropped the
ball” on products, pointing to weaknesses in design and
engineering. The HTC One, which was supposed to herald a
reversal of fortune, has so far failed to stop a slide in the
company’s sales since the phone’s introduction was delayed to
the same timeframe as Samsung’s flagship Galaxy S4.  HTC lost the early momentum of unveiling its HTC One in
 February  prior to Samsung’s Galaxy S4 as a shortage of camera
components forced it to delay shipments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  