-- Cadbury’s Purple Reign Ended by U.K. Court in Nestle Appeal
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-10-04T12:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/cadbury-s-purple-reign-ended-by-u-k-court-in-nestle-appeal.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  won a U.K. Court of Appeal
ruling in a trademark case against  Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ) ’s
Cadbury unit over purple packaging for milk chocolate.  Nestle, the world’s biggest food company, overturned an
October 2012 decision that ruled the color purple was
distinctive to the maker of Dairy Milk bars. The ruling allows
Nestle, and any other confectioners, to sell chocolate products
with the same colored wrapping.  Cadbury, the U.K.’s biggest chocolate maker, used a pale
mauve color as early as 1905 and its packaging has featured
purple and gold dating back to 1920, according to the company
website. The dispute dates back to 2008, when Vevey,
Switzerland-based Nestle opposed Cadbury’s initial application
for a color trademark.  The trademark applied for “lacks the required clarity,
precision, self-containment, durability and objectivity to
qualify for registration,” Judge John Mummery said in the
ruling handed down today.  Cadbury is studying the ruling and will consider whether to
appeal, it said in an e-mailed statement.  Cadbury History  “Our color purple has been linked with Cadbury for a
century and the British public has grown up understanding its
link with our chocolate,” Cadbury said.  Mondelez, which also makes Oreo cookies, was created in a
split of  Kraft Foods Group Inc. (KRFT)  last year. The Deerfield,
Illinois-based Mondelez had a 20.5 percent share of the western
European chocolate confectionery market in 2012, according to
Bloomberg Industries data.  “We believe this was the right outcome from a legal
perspective,” James Maxton, a spokesman for Nestle, said in an
e-mailed statement.  The case is Societe Des Produits Nestle v Cadbury U.K. Ltd.
in the U.K. Court of Appeal, civil division, case no.
A3/2012/2702  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  