-- California Cuts Medicaid Payments Amid Wave of New Users
-- B y   M a r k   M e l n i c o e
-- 2013-10-04T07:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/california-cuts-medicaid-payments-amid-wave-of-new-users.html
When Ruth Haskins, a gynecologist in
Folsom,  California , does a pelvic exam and pap smear on a woman
with insurance, she gets $95 to $200. If the patient is elderly,
federal Medicare pays $36. For the low-income on Medicaid, the
state gives $25, and it’s about to go down.  The reduction comes as Medi-Cal, California’s Medicaid
program for 8.5 million people too poor to afford health care,
is on the verge of adding 1 million participants under President
 Barack Obama ’s health-system overhaul, according to the state
 Health Care Services Department .  Finding doctors willing to treat them may be harder. The
biggest U.S. state by population is projecting its first  budget
surplus  in almost a decade and  spending  $1.5 billion to expand
Medi-Cal. Yet many physicians, as well as dentists and
pharmacies, will see their fees cut 10 percent under a 2011 deal
by Governor  Jerry Brown  to balance an $86 billion budget.  “While the budget has indeed been brought into balance,
that balance is by a narrow margin,” H.D. Palmer, a spokesman
for Brown’s Finance Department, said by e-mail. “That’s why the
budget assumes that the difficult but necessary reductions that
helped bring the budget into balance are ongoing.”  Brown, a 75-year-old Democrat, came to office in January
2011 facing a $26 billion deficit through June 2012. He pressed
lawmakers to cover part of the shortfall by extending expiring
taxes and fees. When Republicans blocked the plan, the governor
cut $10 billion in spending, including Medi-Cal reimbursements.  Cutting Time  Doctors temporarily staved off the reduction with a federal
lawsuit, but lost. The 10 percent cuts are now being implemented
by the health care department. In addition, to make up for
higher reimbursements while the cuts were delayed, the agency
will withhold another 5 percent to recoup overpayments.  The cuts took effect Sept. 5 for dentists and medical-transport workers, and will hit medical-supply companies Oct.
24. Many physicians, clinics and pharmacies will see their
reimbursements lowered starting Jan. 9.  That will be just in time for California to expand Medi-Cal
eligibility by about 1.4 million adults with incomes at or below
about $15,900, slightly above the federal poverty line, starting
Jan. 1. About 1.1 million are projected to join.  California doctors already have the third-lowest Medicaid
payments in the U.S., at 51 percent of what Medicare paid for
the same services in 2012, according to the California Budget
Project, a nonpartisan  research  group in Sacramento. Only  Rhode
Island  and  New Jersey  were lower.  Few New  Just 57 percent of California physicians accepted new Medi-Cal patients in 2011, the second-lowest rate after New Jersey,
the budget group said in an April report.  Patient advocates say the flood of new Medi-Cal patients
may be unable to find doctors, clinics and pharmacies willing to
take them.  “We can take only up to 20 pregnant patients per month,”
said Haskins, who practices obstetrics and gynecology in Folsom.
“As it approaches five Medi-Cal patients in a month, we have to
say no, I’m sorry, I can’t take any new Medi-Cal patients.”  “With the anticipated decrease in state reimbursements,
that number will certainly go down.”  To limit an exodus of doctors from Medi-Cal, raises are
coming for primary-care physicians. Under the Affordable Care
Act, their Medi-Cal rates will rise to the level of Medicare’s
for 2013 and 2014. While doctors have yet to see the boost, the
health care department said they’ll be retroactive to Jan. 1.  Pay Raise  For Randall Hepworth, a pediatrician in suburban
Sacramento, that means he’ll get $75 to examine a low-income
child with a sore throat, up from the current Medi-Cal rate of
about $26. That will bring the rate for low-income patients
close to those with private insurance, where the average
reimbursement is $70 to $85.  Besides the higher rates for primary-care doctors, a bill
awaiting Brown’s signature would exempt some hospital-based
skilled nursing facilities from the Medi-Cal cuts. For most
others in medicine, however, the reductions remain.  Few providers are more vulnerable to the cuts than
specialty pharmacies such as  ModernHealth , based in Monrovia,
east of  Los Angeles .  The company, which employs 300 people, supplies medications
to AIDS patients, transplant recipients and other chronically
ill people. The drugs sometimes cost tens of thousands of
dollars a year, said Sherri Cherman, the president and chief
operating officer.  Losing Money  “We have a higher percentage of our revenue from these
plans like Medi-Cal than other pharmacies might,” she said by
telephone. “For us, a 10 percent cut for medicines we’re making
only 3, 4 or 5 percent on doesn’t make any sense at all. It will
drive of us out of business.”  That situation presents few choices for her patients,
Cherman said, as well as “a huge moral quandary” for the
company.  “We won’t be able to pay our rent or our people with this
10 percent cut, but how do you do that to the patients?” she
said. “We would have no other option than to disenroll from
Medi-Cal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Melnicoe in  Sacramento  at 
 mmelnicoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  