-- Canada Stocks Rise Amid U.S. Budget Optimism as Air Canada Jumps
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-10-04T20:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/canada-stocks-rise-as-air-canada-jumps-amid-u-s-budget-optimism.html
Canadian  stocks  rose for the first
time in three days as  Air Canada (AC/B)  soared, offsetting a drop in
technology stocks amid optimism U.S. lawmakers will reach a
solution to end a budget impasse.  Air Canada, the nation’s largest airline, surged 13 percent
after it said third-quarter earnings will be higher than last
year. TransGlobe Energy Corp. jumped 7.7 percent for a second
day of gains after receiving approval for four land concessions
from the Egyptian government. Ballard Power Systems Inc. sank 15
percent after announcing it would sell about 9 million units.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 23.53
points, or 0.2 percent, to 12,758.65 at 4 p.m. in Toronto,
paring a weekly decline to 0.7 percent. The index has gained 2.6
percent this year. Trading volume was 23 percent lower compared
with the 30-day average.  “It’s a spillover from yesterday’s sell-off, there are
some bargain hunters in the market,” said  Ian Nakamoto ,
director of research with MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc.
in Toronto. The firm manages about $4 billion. “Obviously
there’s the situation in  Washington . I don’t see the default of
the U.S. being that likely and the reason is no party wins
political points for that.”  A partial U.S. government shutdown entered a fourth day
amid wrangling by lawmakers over the budget and debt limit.  Bill Gross  of Pacific Investment Management Co. and BlackRock Inc.’s
 Larry Fink  said the deadlock will be resolved soon, limiting
damage to the economy.  House Speaker  John Boehner  has been telling fellow
Republicans that he won’t allow the U.S. to default on its debt,
according to two Republican congressional aides. Boehner,
speaking to reporters, said Democrats need to negotiate with him
and accept changes to the Affordable Care Act to end the
shutdown.  Air Canada  Air Canada surged 13 percent to C$4.47 for the biggest gain
in the S&P/TSX and the highest close since November 2008. The
airline, the best-performing stock in the benchmark equity gauge
this year with a 155 percent increase, said its third-quarter
results, including adjusted net income, will be higher than last
year. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg have estimated earnings of
96 Canadian cents a share for the quarter.  Cameron Doerksen , analyst with National Bank Financial,
raised his  price target  for Air Canada by 27 percent. Fadi Chamoun, analyst with BMO Capital Markets, boosted his target to
C$5 from C$4.  TransGlobe added 7.7 percent to C$9.49, the biggest gain
since November. The stock has rallied 13 percent in the past two
days since the Egyptian government ratified into law four
production sharing concessions in the country that will increase
TransGlobe’s land position there by 160 percent to 1.3 million
acres.  Tropical Storm  Legacy Oil & Gas Inc. rose 2.8 percent to C$6.57 and Suncor
Energy Inc. added 1 percent to C$36.69 as crude advanced in  New
York . Tropical Storm Karen is pushing through the  Gulf of Mexico 
to the U.S. coast, threatening crude production in the region.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. gained 3 percent to C$18.38,
the most in a month, as copper rose for the second time in three
days.  Davis & Henderson Corp. slipped 1.4 percent to C$26.14 and
BlackBerry Ltd. lost 0.9 percent to C$7.90 to pace declines
among technology stocks.  Ballard Power (BLD) , which designs and manufactures hydrogen fuel
cells, slumped 15 percent to C$1.42, the biggest decline since
March. The company yesterday said it will sell about 9 million
units at $1.40 a unit for proceeds of about $12.6 million. The
cash generated will be used to fund working capital, support
growth and general corporate purposes, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  