-- Canada Dollar Falls Versus Most Peers as U.S. Impasse Persists
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-10-04T21:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/canadian-dollar-declines-as-u-s-government-stalemate-persists.html
The Canadian dollar fell against the
majority of its most-traded peers this week as investors awaited
the outcome of the U.S.’s budget standoff and Canadian crude oil
prices dropped relative to a U.S. benchmark.  The currency rose versus its U.S. counterpart today as risk
appetite improved on optimism that lawmakers in  Washington  would
reach a deal to end its partial government shutdown and avoid a
federal-debt default. The U.S. is  Canada ’s biggest trade
partner. The price spread between Western Canada Select  oil  and
West Texas Intermediate increased.  “The overall growth impact of the U.S. government shutdown
is a factor” for the Canadian dollar,  Camilla Sutton , head of
currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , said by phone from
Toronto. “The pricing of oil has moved against the Canadian
dollar.”  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the aquatic bird on
the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.4 percent to C$1.0294 per  U.S.
dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 97.14 U.S.
cents. The currency was little changed on the week against the
greenback.  Canada’s government bonds fell for the first time in three
days, pushing yields on the benchmark  10-year (GCAN10YR)  security up four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.58 percent. The
price of the 1.5 percent security due in June 2023 dropped 32
cents to C$90.85.  Stocks rose today, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gaining 0.7 percent to 1,690.50.  ‘More Concern’  The U.S. government began its first partial shutdown in 17
years on Oct. 1 as Republicans who control the House insisted on
changes to the nation’s 2010 health-care law, President  Barack
Obama ’s signature legislative achievement. The Senate,
controlled by Democrats, refused. Congress also faces the
statutory debt ceiling, which the Treasury has said will be
reached Oct. 17.  “The shutdown is bad for growth in Canada, and as we get
closer to the debt-ceiling deadline there is more concern
manifesting, which is weighing on the U.S. dollar relative to
the loonie,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in Toronto, said by
phone. “We will probably continue to chop around in a range
until this monumental uncertainty is cleared up. It’s all a
question of waiting for Washington at this point.”  The discount Canada’s benchmark  crude-oil  grade, Western
Canada Select, faces to West Texas Intermediate oil increased to
$34.50 per barrel, the most since January. WTI futures traded at
$103.56 a barrel today in  New York .  Ivey Index  Canada’s purchasing managers increased spending in
September by less than economists forecast, according to a gauge
released today by Western University’s business school.  The Ivey Purchasing Managers Index rose to 51.9 in
September on a seasonally adjusted basis, following an August
reading of 51.0, according to a statement on the  London , Ontario
university’s website. Readings of more than 50 indicate
purchasing by governments and companies increased.  Economists projected a reading of 53.6, according to the
median of a Bloomberg survey with 10 responses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  