-- Canada Syncrude Weakens for Fourth Day on Rising Midwest Supply
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-10-04T20:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/canada-syncrude-weakens-for-fourth-day-on-rising-midwest-supply.html
Canadian Syncrude weakened for a
fourth day on speculation that light oil supplies in the U.S.
Midwest will increase.  Upgraders in  Alberta  and Saskatchewan are expected to ramp
up production this month after maintenance. Output from the
Syncrude plant near Fort McMurray in Alberta,  rose  39 percent
last month to 291,000 barrels a day repairs were finished at the
end of August, according to  Canadian Oil Sands Ltd (COS) , the largest
owner of the project.  Syncrude for November delivery, a benchmark for light oil
produced in oil-sands upgraders, weakened by 25 cents a barrel
to a $12.75 discount to U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude,
according to Calgary oil broker Net Energy Inc.  Crude oil inventories in PADD 2, which covers the Midwest,
increased 665,000 barrels last week to 97.5 million, government
data show. It was the second consecutive increase after 12 weeks
of declines. North Dakota output jumped 6 percent in July to a
record 874,460 barrels a day. Bakken crude, a light, low-sulfur
oil primarily from that state, has dropped this month to a
$13.75 discount from $10 at the end of September, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Supplies are also rising as U.S. refinery demand weakened,
according to the Energy Information Administration. The U.S.
refinery utilization  rate  slid 3.5 percentage points over the
past two weeks to 89 percent, the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm, said yesterday.  Seasonal Maintenance  Refiners typically cut back output or shut for maintenance
at this time of year after boosting production during the summer
driving season. Current rates are still more than 5 percentage
points above the five-year seasonal average, according to EIA
data.  Western Canadian Select heavy oil strengthened by 25 cents
a barrel to a $33.50 discount to WTI, NetEnergy said. The WCS
discount widened this week as there wasn’t enough pipeline space
available to connect supply to markets south of  Chicago .  The  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  Spearhead pipeline from Flanagan,
 Illinois , to Cushing,  Oklahoma , received requests to ship 1.48
million barrels a day with only 175,858 barrels a day of space
available, the Calgary-based company said on Oct. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  