-- Carnegie Hall Hires A New Stage Hand to End Strike
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-10-04T19:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/carnegie-hall-stagehands-set-contract-to-end-strike.html
Unionized stagehands embraced outside
 Carnegie Hall  today after they ended a strike that netted them a
new fulltime position at the storied performance venue.  Carnegie Hall will hire a sixth fulltime stagehand, said
Synneve Carlino, a Carnegie Hall spokesman, in an e-mail.  There are now five, who according to the hall’s tax return
earned an average of $420,000 in 2011, when including benefits
and overtime from working its three stages.  The new full-timer will work in the upstairs 61,000-square-foot education wing that’s scheduled to open in late 2014. It
will have 24 music rooms “where people will have the
opportunity to meet, learn, explore and share musical
experiences,” according to Carnegie Hall. The wing doesn’t
include a stage.  The new stagehand will be paid based on a separate contract
for the wing, Carlino said in an e-mail, without elaborating.  The settlement appears to be a victory for the powerful
union, which was responsible for closing much of Broadway during
a 19-day strike in 2007. As he accepted hugs from his members,
James J. Claffey, Jr., the president of Local One of the
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, described
the agreement as a compromise.  “We will have some presence up there,” Claffey said.  Carnegie Hall said Local One will have “limited
jurisdiction” in the new wing.  Bell Muted  Claffey called the strike on Wednesday, which forced the
cancellation of the opening night concert featuring the
Philadelphia Orchestra and Joshua Bell.  In an interview, Claffey said he didn’t think the stagehand
pay affected public opinion about the strike. “We weren’t
negotiating for the full-time guys to make more money,” he
said.  Clive Gillinson, Carnegie Hall’s executive and artistic
director, earned $1.1 million in 2011. The chief financial
officer, Richard Matlaga, made $429,000 in pay and benefits.  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater,  Zinta
Lundborg  on  New York  City weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 