-- Carpetright CEO Shapland Quits as Retailer Sees Profit Blow
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-10-04T09:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/carpetright-chief-shapland-quits-as-slumping-sales-hurt-profit.html
Carpetright Plc (CPR)  said Chief Executive
Officer Darren Shapland quit amid a further deterioration in
sales that will cause profit to be “significantly below” the
U.K. retailer’s projections, sending the shares down 15 percent.  Shapland, who returned to the business in May last year to
succeed founder Philip Harris, stepped down after informing the
company he couldn’t commit to staying until the end of his five-year contract, Harris said on a conference call today. The
departure leaves 71-year-old Harris back in charge of the
company he started in 1988 with a store in  London ’s East End.  Shapland’s exit is “highly surprising,” though “appears
to be unrelated to the deterioration in trading,”  John Stevenson , an analyst at Peel Hunt in London, said in a note.  Carpetright said today that a sales decline in the U.K. has
worsened since its last update in July, while weakness in the
Netherlands is hurting performance in the rest of  Europe . The
deterioration further reduces the retailer’s chance of reversing
three years of declining sales. Before today, analysts had
expected a 1.4 percent increase for the year through April,
based on the average of eight  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares fell as much as 15 percent to 570 pence in
London, the steepest drop since March 23, 2010. The stock was
down 10 percent at 603 pence as of 9:42 a.m. local time.  Harris, who becomes full-time executive chairman, said in a
statement he was “disappointed” that Shapland is leaving.  Second Stint  Shapland was in his second stint at Carpetright, which he
originally joined as finance director in 2002. He left in 2005
to become chief financial officer and later group development
officer of supermarket chain  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , before returning
last year with the intention of succeeding Harris.  Harris said he will be “working with the board to develop
longer-term management succession arrangements.”  The founder will be assisted in running the company by
Graham Harris, a former  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  executive who joined
Carpetright as trading director this year. Graham Harris, who
isn’t related to the chairman, will join the board and become
chief operating officer, Carpetright said today.  Sales at U.K. stores open at least a year fell 2.5 percent
in the 10 weeks ended Sept. 29, the retailer said. The gross
profit percentage improved 140 basis points in the first half.  In the rest of Europe, same-store revenue declined 7.6
percent in local currency terms in the 10-week period.
Carpetright has stores in the Netherlands,  Belgium  and the
 Republic of Ireland .  The sales slump caused analysts to cut their full-year
earnings estimates. Peel Hunt’s Stevenson now expects pretax
profit of 9.1 million pounds for the year through April, down
from his previous projection of 14 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  