-- Cattle Rises to Eight-Month High on Tight Supplies; Hogs Climb
-- B y   D a l t o n   B a r k e r
-- 2013-10-04T19:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/cattle-rises-to-eight-month-high-on-tight-supplies-hogs-climb.html
Cattle futures rose to an eight-month
high on signs of limited U.S. supplies and higher beef demand.
Hogs climbed the most in a week.  Slaughter estimates for the week ending tomorrow fell 0.2
percent to 628,000 head of cattle, according to Urner Barry
Beef, a Bayville, New Jersey-based publisher of  data  and news on
agriculture markets. Prices climbed for seasonal cuts such as
beef round, Troy Vetterkind, the owner of Vetterkind Cattle
Brokerage in Chicago, said in a telephone interview.  “Supplies are going to be tight,” and meatpackers may
need cattle immediately to meet beef demand, he said.  Cattle futures for December delivery rose 0.5 percent to
close at $1.32425 a pound at 1 p.m. on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. Earlier, the price reached $1.326, the highest for a
most-active contract since Feb. 5. This year, the price has
climbed 0.1 percent, erasing losses since February.  Hog futures for December settlement increased 1 percent to
87.625 cents a pound, the biggest gain since Sept. 24. The price
dropped 0.6 percent this week.  Feeder-cattle futures for November settlement rose 0.2
percent to $1.6595.  The first U.S. government shutdown in 17 years is curbing
the collection of cash-livestock prices and threatening to
reduce transparency in the futures market used for price
discovery by farmers and meat processors.  This week, CME Group Inc., the parent of the  Chicago 
livestock exchange, suspended the publication of measurements of
cash prices for hogs and feeder cattle. The indexes, used to
settle some futures contracts, depend on data distributed by the
U.S. Department of Agriculture. Parts of the agency have been
shut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalton Barker in Chicago at 
 dbarker40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at   pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  