-- China Boosts Malaysia Economic-Defense Ties as Obama Scraps Trip
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-10-04T06:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/china-boosts-malaysia-economic-defense-ties-as-obama-scraps-trip.html
China President Xi Jinping signed
agreements today to boost economic cooperation and defense ties
with  Malaysia  as U.S. President  Barack Obama  scrapped his tour
of the region.  Xi signed a new five-year pact aimed at increasing
bilateral trade to $160 billion by 2017 and arranged to exchange
army and navy personnel after meeting Malaysian Prime Minister
Najib Razak today. China will also help Malaysia set up a space
and science laboratory as part of series of new initiatives, the
president said.  “China understands, Malaysia’s important role in Asean and
we would like to participate and cooperate in prosperity and
stability of this region,” Xi told reporters in Putrajaya, near
Kuala Lumpur. “We would like to have closer cooperation in
defense, law enforcement, security, naval and military exchange,
combating terrorism and transnational crime.”  Obama scrapped plans today to attend economic summits in
 Indonesia  and Brunei next week, after earlier calling off trips
to Malaysia and the Philippines to concentrate on resolving a
fiscal standoff which has led to a partial shutdown of the U.S.
government. His absence may add to growing anxiety in Asia that
the U.S. is too preoccupied with internal political challenges
to focus on countering China’s rising influence in the region.  Obama has staked his second-term foreign policy on
enhancing the U.S. presence in the Pacific. An increasingly
assertive China has unsettled some U.S. allies in the region,
including  Japan  and the Philippines.  Rival Claims  Malaysia Defense Minister Hishammuddin Hussein said in an
interview Aug. 28 that Malaysia is not worried about how often
Chinese ships patrol areas it claims in the South China Sea,
differing from other Southeast Asian claimants on the threat
posed by China.  Malaysia is one of six claimants to land features in the
South China Sea, an area where competition for gas and fish has
led to boats being rammed and survey cables cut. The  Philippines 
and  Vietnam  reject China’s map of the sea, first published in
the 1940s, as a basis for joint exploration.  China’s economic development will bring opportunities
rather than threats as it seeks to boost trade with Southeast
Asia, Xi said in a speech to Indonesia’s parliament yesterday.
This is his first Malaysia visit since assuming the presidency
in March.  “Economic cooperation remains the cornerstone of Malaysia-China bilateral relations,” Najib told reporters. “Malaysia
recognizes China as an important partner in its national
economic development.”  1MDB Agreement  Malaysia is China’s largest Southeast Asian trading partner,
with total trade reaching $88 billion last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. About a fifth of Malaysia’s exports,
including palm oil, went to  China  in 2012, making it the
country’s biggest overseas market, the data show.  The trade pact comes amid slowing growth in both countries.
The world’s second-largest economy is projected to expand 7.6
percent this year, easing from 7.7 percent in 2012, according to
economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg News. Malaysia’s
$304 billion economy will grow 4.5 percent this year, slowing
from last year’s 5.6 percent expansion, according to forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Export-Import Bank of China signed an agreement with
state investment fund 1Malaysia Development Bhd. today to
jointly explore investment opportunities in the Southeast Asian
nation, including a financial district being developed in Kuala
Lumpur, according to a separate statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson in Singapore at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  