-- Mortgage Firm Data Key to Wall Street Probe, U.S. Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-04T17:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/clayton-data-jumping-off-point-fr-u-s-mortgage-probe.html
E-mail and other data held by Wall
Street’s largest due diligence firm may determine how many cases
the government brings against banks and other entities for
actions leading to the financial crisis, a U.S. prosecutor said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Edward Newman, in a hearing
yesterday in federal court in Hartford,  Connecticut , urged a
judge to compel Clayton Holdings LLC to turn over due diligence
reviews, as well as all communications between its employees and
clients for whom it performed the reviews from 2005 to 2007 as
part of the Justice Department’s probe into residential mortgage
backed securities.  “Clayton is part of the puzzle,” Newman said. “Clayton
can serve as the jumping off point for the United States to
determine where else its inquiry may go.”  The fight over the subpoena underscores the Justice
Department’s push to file civil claims against the largest U.S.
banks in connection with mortgage-backed securities. The
department sued  Bank of America Corp.  in August as New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  disclosed criminal and civil
investigations. Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , has denied wrongdoing and said it will fight the suit.  Clayton, based in Shelton, Connecticut, was a “major
provider of third-party due diligence services” to the Wall
Street firms that packaged mortgages into bonds for sale to
investors, according to the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission’s 2011 report.  Due Diligence  Clayton describes its due diligence work as evaluating the
quality of the mortgages to be packaged against the customers’
credit standards. Clayton said it didn’t do any independent
investigation of the underwriting of those loans, which
constituted a sampling provided by their clients.  Marc Rothenberg, a lawyer for Clayton at Blank Rome LLP,
said Clayton has cooperated with U.S. authorities over the past
six years and routinely provides documents and witnesses to aid
in RMBS probes.  He argued that the  Justice Department ’s subpoena, issued in
July, was overly broad and an attempt by the government to
establish a repository of information on Clayton’s almost 200
clients that prosecutors can use at their convenience.  Rothenberg said the subpoena should be limited to the 16
financial institutions the department told him in June were
under investigation.  More Banks  Newman said the government’s probe wasn’t limited to 16
firms, though he asked U.S. Magistrate Judge Donna Martinez to
order Clayton to immediately produce any due diligence reports
the company had completed for those institutions.  “The United States is looking at any entity that might
have been the source of the financial meltdown caused by
residential mortgage backed securities,” he said.  Private and government plaintiffs, among them the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency  and  New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, have previously used information from Clayton to
bolster suits against banks including JPMorgan, Bank of America
Credit Suisse Group AG and Citigroup Inc. An internal report of
Clayton’s released by the financial crisis commission showed
that securitizers frequently allowed into bond deals mortgages
the firm had flagged for failing to meet credit standards.  The subpoena was issued under the 1989 statute called the
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act, or
FIRREA, which the government is using to pursue RMBS cases
against Wall Street banks.  S&L Crisis  The law, enacted in response to the savings-and-loan crisis
of the 1980s, allows the government to seek civil penalties for
losses to federally insured financial companies for as long as
10 years.  Newman argued yesterday that the law gives the government
broad authority to subpoena “books, papers and other records”
that the attorney general deems relevant or material to its RMBS
probe.  “Clayton does not get to decide what advances the  United
States ’ investigation,” Newman said. “Under the clear wording
of FIRREA, the attorney general does.”  Newman also said the government has concerns about who had
access to Clayton’s RMBS database. He said the U.S. learned that
Clayton’s clients had some ability to go into the database and
make changes.  Robert Harris, Clayton’s general counsel, said clients had
“read only” access for much of the database and were limited
to inputting comments or waiving a score in a due diligence
report, according to an affidavit.  Martinez, who didn’t rule on the request yesterday, told
Rothenberg during the hearing that the government probably has
the authority to get “a good portion” of the data it’s
seeking.  The case is U.S. v. Clayton Holdings LLC, 13-mc-00116, U.S.
District Court, District of Connecticut ( New Haven ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Hartford, Connecticut at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 