-- Colombia May Keep Key 3.25% Rate for ‘Some Time,’ Meisel Says
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-10-04T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/colombia-may-keep-key-3-25-rate-for-some-time-meisel-says.html
Colombia ’s  lending rate  at 3.25
percent could remain at that level for “some time” as economic
growth picks up in the second half of the year, central bank co-director Adolfo Meisel said.  After cutting borrowing costs by 2 percentage points in the
nine months through March to support the economy, policy makers
on Sept. 27 unanimously voted to keep the benchmark rate
unchanged. The decision followed faster-than-expected growth in
the second quarter and after some policy makers voted for a cut
in August, arguing that Colombia was growing less than its
potential.  “There are good prospects that the second half will be
better than the first, that we will continue to have more
favorable growth,” Meisel said in an interview yesterday in
Barranquilla. The  interest rate  is expansive, he said “if
circumstances don’t change too much, one would think that this
level can be kept for some time.”  The economy grew 4.2 percent in the second quarter and 2.7
percent in the first three months of the year, the national
statistics agency reported Sept. 19. Second-quarter growth
exceeded the forecasts of all 31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Colombia will grow around 4 percent this year, Meisel said.
Inflation is anchored and “isn’t a concern,” he said.  Annual inflation  quickened to 2.27 percent in August from a
year earlier after the rate in February dropped to 1.83 percent,
its lowest level since the 1950s. Colombia targets inflation of
3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point.  Banco de la Republica also announced in last week’s meeting
that it will dial back its dollar purchase program from at least
$2.5 billion in June to September to no more than $1 billion
from October to December.  The peso, which has weakened 3.2 percent in the past six
months, was little changed at 1,887.94 per  U.S. dollar 
yesterday.  “There probably is some margin” for the peso to weaken
further, Meisel said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  