-- Con Edison Restores Metro-North Power, Service to Resume
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-10-04T19:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/con-edison-restores-metro-north-power-line-mta-will-test.html
Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED)  reconnected
a feeder line supplying Metro-North trains, clearing the way for
full service to resume 12 days after a  power failure  snarled
commutes between Connecticut and  New York City .  “Full service to the MTA Metro-North Railroad New Haven
line will be restored Monday morning, assuming the new
substation which received Con Edison power today is found
reliable during our testing over the weekend,” Aaron Donovan, a
spokesman for the New York-owned Metropolitan Transportation
Authority, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Con Edison reconnected and re-energized one of two 138-kilovolt lines overnight that power trains, the New York-based
utility said in an e-mailed statement today. The power line had
been disconnected Sept. 13 because of equipment upgrades on
Metro-North’s system.  The second power line failed on Sept. 25, curtailing the
number of trains Metro-North could run on a system that serves
about 130,000 commuters daily in  Connecticut  and suburban
Westchester County in New York. The utility, which initially
said the repairs would take two to three weeks, built temporary
feeders that have allowed the system to operate at about 65
percent of capacity. Work to remove the feeder probably led to
the failure of the backup line, Con Edison said on Sept. 30.  Metro-North’s board  said  on Oct. 1 that holders of weekly
and monthly train tickets will be refunded for the disruption.
Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy said Con Edison was
“ultimately responsible” and should pay passenger refunds that
may cost as much as $2 million a week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  