-- Cough Drops Get Sleep Aids With Smith Brothers Overhaul
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-10-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/cough-drops-get-sleep-aids-with-smith-brothers-overhaul.html
Can’t sleep? Dehydrated? There’s a
cough drop for that.  Smith Brothers Co. , known for 1800s-era black-and-white
bags featuring its bearded founders, is reinventing the
medicated lozenge. Bought out of bankruptcy in 2010 by York
Capital Management LP, the 166-year-old company is trying to
inject fresh thinking into a $7.23 billion U.S. cold-remedy
market dominated by Halls and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s Vicks. The
new products include Night Time drops with melatonin and
chamomile to aid sleep as well as electrolyte-laced Restore
lozenges to help people recover from the flu or a marathon.  Leading the charge is Chief Executive Officer Steven Silk,
a veteran food-industry hand whose efforts to shake up a staid
category and company culture includes pushing out executives,
axing the iconic Sen-Sen brand and focusing more on health and
wellness  -- moves that have left some analysts skeptical.  Smith Brothers lacks the name recognition of rivals, said
Tim Barrett, a Chicago-based analyst for researcher Euromonitor.  “Unless you’re Halls or Ricola, you’re going to have a
hard time getting anybody,” he said in an interview. “Why go
with something new when you’re used to something else?”  In 1847, James Smith began selling cough candies in
Poughkeepsie, New York. Fueled by newspaper ads, the brand
gained popularity in the Northeast, and sales boomed. His sons
William and Andrew, who inherited the business, put their own
pictures on packages to thwart copycats. The Bernard Fox family
bought the brand in 1926 and established F&F Foods Inc.,
according to the company.  Iconic Brand  By the time York Capital acquired F&F for $10 million in
2010, it was “tired and bankrupt,” said Zalman Jacobs, a
partner at the New York-based private-equity firm, which manages
about $16 billion in assets.  “It was very undermanaged with this iconic brand just sort
of sitting there,” he said.  York pumped in another $6 million and renamed F&F Smith
Brothers. It’s planning to put in $7 million more.  Silk was hired based on his track record at  ConAgra Foods
Inc. (CAG) , where he helped revive Hebrew National hot dogs and
Eckrich sausages. Upon joining in 2011, he found a factory
operating at less than capacity and an entrenched culture
hostile to new ideas. One of his first acts was firing two long-tenured employees -- one in sales and one in operations. He also
shook up middle management and brought in a Procter & Gamble Co.
veteran to run research and development.  Liquid Sugar  Smith Brothers is run out of a brick building on Chicago’s
Southwest Side, which includes a warehouse and cough-drop and
candy factory where as many as 250 workers toil during busy
season in August and September. The factory recently got new
floors, lights and a quality-control facility where lab-coated
employees check the sugar and moisture content as candies and
drops roll off the production line. Outside, two silos house
about 200,000 pounds (91,719 kilograms) of corn syrup and liquid
sugar that’s later pumped into the manufacturing area.  Silk has shifted the focus from making candies for other
companies to expanding Smith Brothers’ health and wellness
segment, which along with the Sen-Sen and Fox’s mints brands
generated just 12 percent of the company’s $25 million in sales
last year. More recently, Silk axed slow-selling Sen-Sen,
licorice-flavored breath fresheners that had been around since
the 19th century. He’s also considering ditching Fox’s mints.  While Silk argued that Smith Brothers’ apothecary vibe will
appeal to consumers looking for natural products, the refocus
into health and wellness was a big strategic shift and not
without risk, said Chief Financial Officer Carol Hennessy.  Skeptical CFO  “Smith Brothers cough drops were more secondary,” she
said. Because they were mostly sold in dollar stores, “I was a
little skeptical about getting the volume.”  She has since reconsidered because sales are projected to
increase 44 percent this year to $36 million as the company
pushes into more stores and works on a national TV ad campaign.  The goal is to “gently expand the brand, but stay within
the consumer perception of what the brand should be,” Silk said
in an interview at the company’s headquarters.  Another aim is to transcend the traditional cold and flu
season, he said. Hence a throat-warming apple-pie lozenge that
in the coming weeks will start selling for $2.29 a bag at
 Walgreen Co. (WAG)  stores. The company is also experimenting with such
flavors as green tea, pomegranate and strawberries-and-cream, as
well as vitamin chews.  Flowering Herb  The throat-warming drops contain small, coated pellets that
heat the mouth. The technology was created by Mane SA, a French
maker of favors and fragrances for food and body care products.
Smith Brothers’ lemon-lime moisturizing drops contain jambu
oleoresin, an extract from a flowering herb native to tropical
areas, that’s supposed to increase salivation.  Sales of cough and cold remedies jumped 9.3 percent to
$7.23 billion in the year ended Aug. 3, compared with 2.7
percent growth the year before, according to Nielsen data. Cough
drops and lozenges make up about 8 percent of category sales,
the data show.  “Consumers are responding to healthier claims” and are
looking for more convenient ways to take medicine and vitamins,
said Todd Hale, senior vice president of consumer and shopper
insights at Nielsen.  Smith Brothers’ competition isn’t sitting still.  Halls, which got its start more than a century ago selling
soaps and jams in the U.K., has introduced icy lemon-flavored
cough drops with a syrup center, drops with vitamin C and sugar-free products. Vicks makes cough suppressants including menthol
and cherry-flavored VapoDrops. Its NyQuil brand has introduced a
sleep aid called ZzzQuil.  Silk says Smith Brothers stands out from Halls and Vicks,
in part, because of its improved packaging. It’s using a white
coated-plastic bag, less noisy and shiny than foil, with bold
black font. He has no plans to ditch Andrew and William Smith,
who will continue to carry the brand.  “They had personality,” Silk said. “I knew they could be
brought back to life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  