-- Coyotes Hand Rangers 4-1 Defeat in Vigneault’s Debut as Coach
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-10-04T04:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/coyotes-hand-rangers-4-1-defeat-in-vigneault-s-debut-as-coach.html
Radim Vrbata scored three goals as
the Phoenix Coyotes won 4-1 to hand Alain Vigneault a defeat in
his first National Hockey League regular-season game as coach of
the  New York Rangers .  The Rangers next face the Los Angeles Kings on Oct. 7, as
they begin their quest for a first Stanley Cup title in 20 years
with nine road games before hosting the Montreal Canadiens Oct.
28 in their home opener at Madison Square Garden.  Vigneault joined the Rangers in June after seven seasons
with the Canucks, who lost 4-1 at the San Jose Sharks last
night. He was replaced in Vancouver by  John Tortorella , who was
fired by New York after the team was eliminated in the second
round of the playoffs.  It’s the first season for a reorganized NHL, which is now
divided into Eastern and Western conferences with two divisions
in each. The Rangers play in the eight-team Metropolitan
Division along with the New York Islanders and the New Jersey
Devils, who lost 3-0 to the  Pittsburgh Penguins  last night.  The game at Jobing.com Arena in Glendale, Arizona, last
night was the first for the Coyotes since the league in August
approved their sale to a group headed by Canadian businessmen
George Gosbee and Anthony LeBlanc, a former Research in Motion
Ltd. executive. The transaction ended four years of league
ownership.  Kyle Chipchura scored for the Coyotes three minutes, 36
seconds into the game.  Marc Staal  tied it on a power play in the
second period and Vrbata restored the lead for Phoenix less than
four minutes later. Vrbata scored again 1:10 into the third
period on a power play and made it 4-1 six minutes later.  Bruins Win  Also last night, the  Boston Bruins , who lost in the Stanley
Cup finals in June to the  Chicago Blackhawks , got a goal in each
period as they beat the Tampa Bay Lightning 3-1. The St. Louis
Blues beat the Nashville Predators 4-2 and the Florida Panthers
won 4-2 at the  Dallas Stars .  Two games ended in shootouts as the  Washington Capitals 
beat the Calgary Flames 5-4 and the Kings defeated the Minnesota
Wild 3-2.  A full program of 82 games per team is scheduled after the
2012 regular season was shortened to 48 games per team by a
labor dispute between players and owners that yielded a 10-year
collective bargaining agreement after a 117-day lockout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 