-- Crude Rises as Tropical Storm Karen Curbs Gulf Output
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-10-04T19:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/crude-rises-as-tropical-storm-karen-curbs-output-in-the-gulf.html
West Texas Intermediate rose as
Tropical Storm Karen pushed through the Gulf of Mexico to the
U.S. coast, threatening crude production in the region.  Prices gained 0.5 percent. Karen will make landfall early
Oct. 6 on the southeastern tip of Louisiana, according to the
National Hurricane Center.  BP Plc (BP/)  is shutting in all its oil and
natural gas output in the Gulf, and LOOP LLC will suspend tanker
operations at noon. The U.S. government shutdown entered a
fourth day as House Speaker  John Boehner  said that he won’t
allow the U.S. to default on its debt.  “The market is paying respect to the storm,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in
Chicago. “It’s not going to be a hurricane, but you can’t
totally dismiss the storm. It could definitely impact
production. People are still worried about the budget
standoff.”  WTI crude for November delivery increased 53 cents to
settle at $103.84 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
The volume of all futures traded was about 39 percent below the
100-day average at 3:34 p.m. Prices rose 0.9 percent this week
and are up 13 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement climbed 46 cents, or 0.4
percent, to end the session at $109.46 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Futures were 29 percent below
the 100-day average. The European benchmark was at a $5.62
premium to WTI at today’s close, down from $5.69 yesterday.  Tropical Storm  Karen, with top sustained winds of 50 miles (80 kilometers)
per hour, was about 240 miles south-southwest of the mouth of
the Mississippi River before  2 p.m. New York time , moving north-northwest at 9 mph, the NHC said in an advisory. This is down
from wind speeds of 60 mph earlier today.  BP halted output at all company-operated facilities in the
deepwater, the company said in a statement today on its website.
LOOP, the  Louisiana Offshore Oil Port , is the only U.S. port
capable of offloading ultra-large crude carriers.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  curtailed output by 1,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day and pulled nonessential personnel from offshore
operations in Karen’s path.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  shut and
evacuated the Independence Hub and three other platforms in the
central and eastern Gulf.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Enterprise Products
Partners LP (EPD) ,  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  were
also moving personnel out of the system’s path.  The Gulf Coast is home to 23 percent of U.S. crude
production, 5.6 percent of gas output and more than 45 percent
of petroleum refining capacity, according to the Energy
Department.  Potential Default  The U.S. made little progress in reopening the government,
raising the prospect of a prolonged standoff over the shutdown
and raising the $16.7 trillion debt limit. The closure has
delayed the release of the Labor Department’s monthly payroll
report, which normally comes out the first Friday of each month.  “We are staring to fly blindly,” said Bill O’Grady, chief
market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St.
Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion. “The longer this goes on,
the more dangerous things get.”  Boehner said he will reject Obama’s call for a so-called
“clean” debt-limit increase free of policy conditions. The
Ohio Republican also said the way to reopen the government is
for Democrats to negotiate with him and accept changes that
would produce “fairness” under the Affordable Care Act.  “Prices retreated on two things, Boehner’s statements and
the downgrade of Karen,” said Tom Finlon, Jupiter, Florida-based director of Energy Analytics Group LLC. “He made it clear
he’s standing firm. His statements just happened to coincide
with the storm downgrade.”  Economic Risk  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams  estimated yesterday a two-week government halt would
shave 0.25 percentage point off fourth-quarter economic growth.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  and
BlackRock Inc.’s  Larry Fink  said the stalemate between U.S.
politicians will be resolved soon. The investors spoke yesterday
at an event in Beverly Hills, California.  “The market is keeping its eye on the shutdown of the
government,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “There is a lot of
uncertainty. The storm is temporarily supporting the market.”  WTI will probably decline next week on concern that the
political impasse may damp economic growth and energy demand, a
Bloomberg survey showed. Eighteen of 30 analysts and traders, or
60 percent, forecast crude will drop through Oct. 11. Six
respondents, or 20 percent, predicted an increase and six said
that there would be no change.  Implied Volatility  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 19 percent, down from 19.8 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 329,499
contracts as of 3:35 p.m. It totaled 538,850 contracts
yesterday, 11 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.88 million contracts.  “Nobody knows what to do,” O’Grady said. “Volume is very
low. People are just sitting on their hands, which makes a lot
of sense right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  