-- De Blasio Says He’s a ‘Fiscal Conservative’ Raising NYC Taxes
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-10-04T17:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/de-blasio-says-he-s-a-fiscal-conservative-raising-nyc-taxes.html
Bill de Blasio, who won the
Democratic mayoral nomination vowing to tax New York’s richest
residents to pay for universal pre-school, called himself a
“fiscal conservative” in a speech to business leaders.  Speaking before 800 executives hosted by the Association
for a Better New York today, de Blasio, 52, was interrupted by
applause at least 10 times as he told the civic group he would
use the mayoralty to fight economic inequality. In a speech to
ABNY exactly one year ago, a smaller audience sat in silence.  “I want to pleasantly shock the room and say I’m a fiscal
conservative,” de Blasio said, responding to a questioner
seeking lower hotel-occupancy taxes. “I’m a progressive-activist fiscal conservative, but I’m still a fiscal
conservative. We can’t talk about tax cuts in any sector until
we sort out our financial situation.”  De Blasio, elected to the watchdog post of public advocate
in 2009, won the nomination in part by decrying economic
inequality in a city where the richest 1 percent took home 39
percent of all earnings in 2012, up from 12 percent in 1980.
About 46 percent of all four-person families had incomes of no
more than $46,000 in 2011, or about 150 percent of the poverty
level, according to city officials.  Repeating Theme  He used today’s speech to return to that theme, trying to
win over an audience that he said probably included many who
earn more than $500,000 a year and would be taxed to pay for his
plan.  “We all benefit when the middle class is growing and more
of our fellow citizens are lifted out of poverty,” de Blasio
said.  He said he would build on several of the economic-development programs started by Mayor Michael Bloomberg, whom de
Blasio criticized during his campaign.  Bloomberg, 71, founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, will finish his third term Dec. 31 and is
barred from seeking a fourth term.  De Blasio led his Republican rival, Joseph Lhota, 58, a top
aide to former Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, 71 percent to 21 percent,
in a Quinnipiac University poll released yesterday. Several in
the audience, which included former Governor Mario Cuomo and
former Mayor David Dinkins, both Democrats, addressed questions
to de Blasio as if he were already the mayor-elect.  Hitting Airwaves  Lhota’s first televised ad, which aired this week,
describes the former chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation
Authority as similar to de Blasio in supporting gay marriage and
decriminalizing marijuana, while depicting the Democrat as
someone who “wants to raise taxes and supports reckless
government spending.”  Lhota is scheduled to speak before ABNY Oct. 8. He
responded to the speech today by saying, “It’s delusional for
anyone to think Bill de Blasio is a fiscal conservative.” He
said in an e-mail statement that de Blasio was pandering to the
audience.  In his remarks, de Blasio presented an array of economic-development policies focused on expanding job and career
training in the city’s public colleges, increasing opportunities
for television and film production, and adding requirements on
developers to mix luxury apartments with more affordable
housing. The city faces “a crisis of affordability,” he said.  Future Threat  “We cannot resign ourselves to the mindset that says
rising inequality is a necessary byproduct of urban success,”
de Blasio said. “We must recognize that the economic insecurity
steadily creeping into the middle class is a threat to our
city’s long-term future.”  In his ABNY appearance last year, de Blasio first proposed
a tax increase on the wealthy to raise $532 million for
universal all-day pre-kindergarten and after-hours middle-school
programs.  “My members clearly agree with him about the importance of
pre-kindergarten,” said Steven Spinola, president of the Real
Estate Board of New York, who attended today’s speech. “It’s
critical and will have a great impact on children.” It’s too
early to decide whether a tax increase is the best way to
finance it, Spinola said in an interview.  About 20,000 of New York’s 68,000 4-year-olds get city-funded full-day pre-kindergarten classes, with 38,000 enrolled
in three-hour programs and 10,000 in none. The added pre-K slots
would cost about $342 million, de Blasio said.  After School  Almost a third of middle-schoolers participate in after-hours extracurricular programs, and to enroll the rest would
cost about $190 million, according to de Blasio’s plan.
The tax would affect about 1 percent, or 44,200, of city
taxpayers, with an average income of $2.7 million, de Blasio’s
office said. To close budget deficits, the city imposed a
surcharge on incomes above $150,000 per household from 2003 to
2005 and increased property taxes 18.5 percent.  De Blasio’s plan would raise the marginal tax rate on
incomes above $500,000 to 4.4 percent from almost 3.9 percent.
For the 27,300 city taxpayers earning $500,000 to $1 million,
the average increase would be $973 a year, according to the
Independent Budget Office, a municipal agency.  For those making $1 million to $5 million, the average
extra bite would rise to $7,793, the budget office said. At
incomes of $5 million to $10 million, it would climb to $33,518,
and for those earning more than $10 million, it would mean
paying $182,893 more.  The top 1 percent account for 46 percent of the city’s
personal income tax revenue, while top 5 percent provide 64
percent, according to the city Finance Department.  “I understand some of them may not agree with my plan, but
it’s the right thing to do,” de Blasio told reporters following
the speech. “I didn’t come here for love; I came here to foster
understanding of my vision and to let people know I want to work
with them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  