-- Dollar Trades at Almost Month Low Versus Yen on Shutdown
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-10-04T21:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/dollar-heads-for-weekly-decline-as-shutdown-delays-economic-data.html
The dollar traded at almost a one-month low against the yen as a partial shutdown of the U.S.
government delayed a jobs report, clouding the outlook for when
the  Federal Reserve  may reduce stimulus.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index reached the lowest level in
two weeks as Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said the
shortage of economic news “would tend to make me somewhat more
cautious” about reducing the pace of bond purchases. Lawmakers
also need to agree on raising the debt limit. The pound fell
against most its 16 major counterparts on speculation recent
gains were excessive.  Australia ’s dollar rose on bets the
central bank will refrain from cutting  interest rates .  “The longer the shutdown lasts, the bigger economic impact
it has,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in a telephone interview. “The
debt-ceiling issue is potentially much more disruptive for the
financial markets. Because the dollar already had a weak
September, short positions started building up. They built up a
little bit more this week.” A short refers to a bet that an
asset will fall.  The dollar rose 0.2 percent to 97.48 yen at 5 p.m. in  New
York , trimming this week’s decline to 0.8 percent. It touched
96.96, about the lowest since Aug. 28. The U.S. currency rose
0.5 percent to $1.3558 per euro. The yen strengthened 0.2
percent to 132.14 per euro.  Dollar Measure  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, rose 0.2 percent to 1,009.98 after
falling to the lowest since Sept. 19.  Malaysia’s ringgit rallied to almost two-week high. The
currency rose 0.4 percent to 3.1827 versus the dollar. Chile’s
peso gained 0.3 percent to 499.22 against the greenback,
touching its strongest level since Sept. 23.  Options traders raised bets on price swings between the
dollar and the euro to the most in almost four weeks.  One-month implied volatility for the pair, based on option
prices, rose to 7.72 percent on Oct. 2, the highest since Sept.
9. It was at 7.34 percent today, up from 6.57 percent on Sept.
19, which was the lowest since October 2007.  Dollar weakness “obviously was trigged by the government
shutdown, but the big issue markets are concerned about right
now is really discussions around the debt ceiling,” Sireen Harajli, a strategist at Mizuho Bank in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “The markets are being a little bit more
cautious ahead of the weekend.”  Pound Down  The pound fell for a second day against the dollar, after
reaching a nine-month high this week, amid speculation the U.K.
economic recovery isn’t strong enough to warrant an early
interest-rate increase.  Bank of England  policy makers, who are due to meet next
week, have said they will keep the benchmark interest rate at a
record low until unemployment falls to 7 percent. The jobless
rate was 7.7 percent in the second quarter.  “Some of the momentum in the early rate hike argument has
been lost,” said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International in  London . “People are taking off some
of their long positions, in case we see a negative shock,” she
said, referring to bets an asset will gain.  The pound slid 0.9 percent to $1.6010 after rising to
$1.6260 on Oct. 1, the highest level since Jan. 2.  Aussie Up  The Aussie strengthened before an industry report next week
on service activity in  China , the South Pacific nation’s biggest
trading partner.  The  Reserve Bank  left its benchmark interest rate at 2.5
percent on Oct. 1, saying earlier cuts are still filtering
through the economy and already driving up asset prices.  “We’ve shifted up our year-end forecast for the Australian
dollar,” said  Robert Rennie , chief currency strategist in
Sydney at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , which sees the Aussie at 95
U.S. cents by Dec. 31 from 92 cents previously. “Australian
households are showing less signs of  risk aversion .”  Australia’s currency gained 0.4 percent to 94.35 U.S.
cents, having appreciated 1.3 percent this week.  The first partial shutdown of the U.S. government in 17
years has delayed three economic releases this week, including
the monthly payrolls report and the official jobless rate, which
had been scheduled for release today.  “Less data is not helpful in gauging where the economy is
and where it’s going,” the Fed’s Lockhart said yesterday in
Atlanta. If the shutdown lasts until the Fed’s next meeting on
Oct. 29-30, “it would be very hard to make a decision” about
reducing quantitative easing, he said.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $22.2 billion, compared with $30 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $5 billion, the largest
share of trades at 22 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate
totaled $3 billion, or 14 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 7 percent less than the
average for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
34 percent more than average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  