-- Tea Party’s Ross Says Debt Worth Yielding on Obamacare
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-10-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/tea-party-s-ross-says-debt-worth-yielding-on-obamacare.html
U.S. Representative  Dennis Ross , a
Florida Republican, said he would support a broad spending deal
that didn’t include changes to the health-care law, becoming the
first Tea Party-backed House lawmaker to publicly back off the
fight that has shut down the government for five days.  Ross, ranked among the House’s most conservative members by
both the Club for Growth and the  American Conservative Union ,
said he shifted his position because the shutdown hasn’t
resulted in changes to the Affordable Care Act, which started
Oct. 1, the same day government funding ran out. The shutdown
also could hurt the party, he said.  “We’ve lost the CR battle,” Ross, referring to the
continuing resolution to authorize  government spending , said in
an interview. “We need to move on and take whatever we can find
in the debt limit.”  Other lawmakers backed by the limited-government  Tea Party 
movement, including Republican Representative  Jim Jordan  of
 Ohio , are refusing to budge. Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  said yesterday the way to end the government shutdown
would be for Democrats to negotiate and accept changes that
would produce “fairness” under President  Barack Obama ’s
signature health-care law, also known as Obamacare.  Representative Raul Labrador, an Idaho Republican and
leading voice in the fight against Obamacare, said a change to
the law “has to be on the table.”  One-Year Delay  “A one-year delay is still reasonable to ask for,”
Labrador said in an interview.  The view from Ross, 53, echoes that of a growing chorus of
 House Republicans  pushing to craft a broader agreement that
doesn’t include Obamacare as the cornerstone. That fight has
caused a prolonged stalemate and is now bleeding into a debate
over the nation’s $16.7 trillion  debt  limit, which must be
raised before Oct. 17 to avoid a U.S. default.  “You’re starting to see a shift in the thinking among
members of the conference from all factions,” said
Representative Charles Boustany, a Louisiana Republican.
Boustany said he would also back a deal that didn’t delay the
health-care law’s individual mandate -- a requirement that
Americans who lack insurance purchase it through government-run
exchanges -- if it also repealed a tax on medical devices, led
to entitlement cuts and created a process for  tax reform .  Ross took a hard-line stance just last month, saying that
Republicans who took office in 2010 “were elected to repeal and
replace Obamacare.”  “We’ve got to offer an alternative for the sake of our
credibility,” he said then.  Means Testing  Now, Ross is pushing for other changes, such as means-testing for Medicare payments and switching to a formula that
may make Social Security beneficiaries’ cost-of-living increases
rise more slowly. Those would be “major reforms” that should
win Republican votes.  “I’m not questioning my leadership. I’m just suggesting
that we need to take stock of where we’ve come and realize what
it’s going to take for where we want to go,” Ross said, adding
that he still favors changing the health-care law.  Ross said Republicans can claim victory for recent spending
cuts, which he said are the first consecutive-year reductions in
more than 50 years.  “We’ve got to be realistic about that and not go so far as
that we do things that shut down the government to a great
degree or default on our debt,” Ross said. “There’s room to
make sure we continue on our course and not have catastrophic
events.”  A spending deal would clear the way for compromises on
other issues, such as immigration and revising the  tax code , he
said.  “There are a whole lot of other issues that haunted us at
the election other than Obamacare,” Ross said. “I would hope
there’s at least enough of us to constitute a majority of
reasonable people that realize we need to give and take.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  