-- Teck Said to Lose Interest in Bid for Rio Iron-Ore Unit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-10-04T15:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/teck-said-to-lose-interest-in-bid-for-rio-iron-ore-unit.html
Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) ,  Canada ’s second-largest mining company, is losing interest in buying  Rio Tinto
Plc (RIO) ’s controlling stake in Iron Ore Co. of Canada after failing
to agree on a price, according to two people familiar with the
situation.  While Teck is still officially participating in the auction
process for the asset, the Canadian company and London-based Rio
are far apart on a valuation and aren’t moving closer, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the negotiations
are private.  In light of the rising  price  of iron ore, which has climbed
as much as 29 percent since the end of May as Chinese steel
demand recovers, Rio may opt to keep its interest in Iron Ore
Co., the people said. Rio’s 59 percent stake in the unit may be
valued at as much as $3.5 billion, Credit Suisse Group AG
analysts said in June.  Chris Stannell, a Teck spokesman, said the company doesn’t
comment on market rumor or speculation. Natalie Rouleau, an Iron
Ore Co. spokeswoman, didn’t respond to phone calls seeking
comment. Bruce Tobin, a Rio spokesman, declined to comment.  Rio and other large mining companies such as BHP Billiton
Ltd. and Anglo American Plc are looking to sell some of their
less-promising assets as the sluggish global economy slows
demand growth for iron ore, copper and other commodities.  Rio Chief Executive Officer Sam Walsh said Aug. 8 that a
planned sale of Australian and New Zealand aluminum businesses
“for value is not possible in the current environment.” In
June, Rio said it backed away from selling its diamond business
after failing to find a buyer and deciding not to pursue an
initial public offering of the unit.  Apollo, Glencore  The company began a sale of its Iron Ore Co. stake this
year as part of efforts to curb costs and strengthen its balance
sheet, hiring Credit Suisse Group AG and Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce to sell all or part of its interest, a person close
to the matter said March 1.  Iron Ore Co. initially attracted interest from several
potential buyers. Buyout firm  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  made
an offer, a person familiar with the situation said in June, and
 Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  was studying a bid, two people familiar
with the matter said the same month. Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board and Montreal-based Caisse de Depot et Placement
du  Quebec , another pension fund, were seeking partners for
possible separate bids and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  also expressed
interest, the Wall Street Journal reported July 5.  Wuhan Interest  Blackstone, Apollo and Glencore dropped out of the sale
process after offers came in below Rio’s expectations, Reuters
reported in August.  China ’s  Wuhan Iron & Steel Co. (600005)  is bidding,
the Wall Street Journal reported in September.  Iron Ore Co.’s operations are located in Labrador City,
Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada’s easternmost province. About
a quarter of its output is shipped to steel mills in Asia, the
Pacific region and the Middle East via a 420-kilometer (261-mile) railway and port on the Gulf of St. Lawrence.  The unit has sufficient reserves to last 30 years at
current production rates and sales were about C$1.8 billion in
2012, according to  Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corp. , which owns
15 percent of the producer.  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  has a 26 percent
stake.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  is Canada’s biggest miner by sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  