-- Embraer Bets on Radar for World Cup to Amazon Forest
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-10-04T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/embraer-bets-on-radar-for-world-cup-to-amazon-forest.html
Embraer SA (EMBR3) , the world’s largest
regional-jet maker, is betting that radar surveillance of the
World Cup, mudslides and Amazonian deforestation will shore up
its bottom line as demand in its main business shrinks.  Three radar contracts in Brazil being announced today for
36 million reais ($16.3 million) are part of Embraer’s bid to
build that business after buying a majority stake in the former
Orbisat Industria e Aerolevantamento two years ago. Now known as
Bradar Industria SA, the unit sees 2014 sales rising 15 percent.  “In defense, we are currently serving the national market
and there is the potential to attend to other countries where
Brazil has good geopolitical relationships,” Bradar President
Mauricio Aveiro said in a telephone interview from Brasilia.
“More than 50 percent of our sales are coming from Brazil now.
In the future, some five years from now, foreign sales will be a
significant amount” of revenue.  Embraer is increasingly banking on revenue from radars --
which can create maps, measure environmental risks and protect
the pope -- and military contracts to offset rising competition
in the small-airliner market and as carriers look to larger
planes to combat rising fuel prices.  Brazil’s military used Bradar equipment to monitor Pope Francis I for safety when he visited in July and will use
ground-based radar units to survey crowds -- or protesters -- at
soccer’s 2014  World Cup  tournament.  Mudslide Risk  Bradar’s technology will be used to map areas in Brazil at
risk of mudslides and parts of the Amazon rain forest before a
proposed dam is built. In another dam project, the radars help
measure areas where there have been changes that might affect
water levels, such as the removal of vegetation.  Revenue estimated at 80 million reais for 2013 should
increase as the company taps into new markets as the Brazilian
alternative to U.S. and European companies, Aveiro said. Since
Embraer bought into the company in 2011, the number of employees
has grown from 150 to 250 and Bradar has “gained muscle” under
financial restructuring, Aveiro said.  The current backlog for regional jets in  Latin America  is
non-existent from 2019 on, according to data compiled by Boeing
Co. through the Flight Global Ascend Online database. Meanwhile,
new competitors from Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp. to Sukhoi Co. are
crowding the market.  Border Monitoring  That’s why Embraer Chief Executive Officer Frederico Curado
set a goal in 2012 of getting as much as 25 percent of revenue
from defense within five years, twice 2010’s level. Regional
jets accounted for 55 percent of revenue in the second quarter,
down from 68 percent a year earlier.  Defense contracts, on the other hand, are rolling in.
 Military revenue  more than doubled from 2005 through 2012 as
sales rose 34 percent. Bradar and another Embraer unit last year
won a 839 million-real contract to monitor 650 kilometers of
 Brazil ’s 16,886 kilometers of borders in the first phase of the
government’s Sisfron program.  “This contract is of enormous magnitude,” Aveiro said.
“There’s a lot of potential for us getting contracts for next
phases.”  Brazil’s defense-budget cut of 4.6 billion reais this year
hasn’t hurt growth at Embraer, said analysts at Bradesco BBI in
a note on Sept. 9. “Sisfron, the Brazilian land border
monitoring program, has the potential of reaching $4 billion in
revenues for Embraer, with 10 percent of that already contracted
with the company,” Bradesco’s Edigimar Maximiliano Jr. wrote.  Bradar will deliver three radars to the Brazilian  air force 
by the end of the year for a total of 25 sold since 2011. Radars
are already in use in Panama and  Colombia  for civilian projects
as Bradar eyes other countries.  “I see big potential in the next two to three years to
increase our international presence,” Aveiro said. “Our
competitive advantage isn’t to enter in direct competition with
big companies; we are in a strategic position as a Brazilian
company with Brazilian technology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  