-- Emerging Stocks Advance for Fourth Day as Gazprom Rallies
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a ,   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-10-04T21:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/emerging-nation-stocks-head-for-weekly-gain-as-samsung-advances.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
fourth day as OAO Gazprom followed oil higher while investors
awaited the outcome of a U.S. budget standoff. Brazil’s real
capped the biggest weekly advance among major currencies.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.3 percent to
1,007.92, extending a weekly increase to 0.8 percent. Gazprom,
 Russia ’s natural gas exporter, climbed the most in two weeks,
while  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  paced gains in  South Korea . The Ibovespa
rose for the first time in three days as Cia. Siderurgica
Nacional SA led steelmakers higher after Brazil increased
tariffs on imports to safeguard the local industry. The real
climbed 1.8 percent for the week, the most among 16 currencies.  Oil rose 0.5 percent to settle at $103.84 a barrel in New
York as Tropical Storm Karen retained strength on a path through
the  Gulf of Mexico  to the U.S. coast, threatening  production in
the region. A partial shutdown of the U.S. government entered a
fourth day amid wrangling by lawmakers over the budget and debt
limit. House Speaker  John Boehner  has been telling fellow
Republicans that he won’t allow the U.S. to default on its debt,
according to two Republican congressional aides.  “It’s very unlikely that the U.S. will default,”  Alec Young , a global equity strategist at S&P Capital IQ in New York,
said by the phone today.“That doesn’t mean, however, that
uncertainty won’t go on.”  Nine out of 10 groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
rose today as consumer stocks had the biggest gains. The
benchmark measure for developing nations has dropped 4.5 percent
this year to trade at 10.6 times projected earnings, compared
with the  valuation  of 13.9 for the MSCI World Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 1.3 percent to $42.11. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
declined 3.9 percent to 24.41.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa rose 0.7 percent, reducing this week’s
drop to 1.7 percent. CSN climbed 3.3 percent. Earlier losses in
the benchmark gauge were driven by Petroleo Brasileiro SA as
Moody’s Investor’s Service lowered its credit ranking to Baa1,
the third-lowest investment-grade rating. The state-controlled
oil producer rebounded after sinking as much as 2.5 percent.  The real rallied this week as Brazil’s central bank
maintained a $60 billion intervention program to support the
currency and curb inflation by limiting import prices. The
currency has climbed 10 percent since the program was announced
Aug. 22, a day after the currency touched a 4 1/2-year low.  Russian Shares  The Micex Index climbed 1.2 percent in Moscow, the most
among major emerging-market gauges. Gazprom rallied 1.9 percent
as oil jumped. Karen, no longer expected to become a hurricane,
will make landfall early Oct. 6 on the southeastern tip of
 Louisiana  and then again close to Mobile,  Alabama , according to
the National Hurricane Center.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, also known as the H-share index, was little changed today.  Man Wah Holdings Ltd. (1999) , a
sofa maker that gets half its sales from the U.S., declined 2.7
percent. Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd., the casino operator
controlled by billionaire Lui Che-woo, slumped 3.1 percent.
Mainland markets are shut until Oct. 8 for holidays.  Kia Motors rebounded from the lowest level since Aug. 23.
 SK Hynix Inc. (000660)  jumped 4.2 percent to a four-month high.  Indian automakers and consumer companies advanced after the
government said state-run banks will increase lending to the
industries. The nation’s benchmark stock index rose for the
fifth week in six.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the nation’s biggest
automaker, rose 1.2 percent to a record after Deutsche Bank AG
upgraded the stock. The rupee advanced 1.7 percent this week.  Indonesia, Thailand  Indonesia ’s rupiah forwards completed a weekly gain after
data showed the nation’s trade balance swung into the first
surplus in five months and inflation slowed.  Thailand ’s 10-year
government bonds completed a fourth weekly gain as foreigners
increased holdings after the nation’s debt management agency
said it will reduce issuance this quarter.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries declined six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 334 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  