-- Mets Pitcher Matt Harvey Changes Mind, Opts for Surgery on Elbow
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-10-05T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/mets-matt-harvey-opts-to-have-surgery-on-torn-elbow-ligament.html
New York Mets pitcher Matt Harvey
decided to have surgery on his right elbow, reversing course
after earlier planning an attempt to rehabilitate the injury.  James Andrews, who has operated on dozens of professional
athletes including New York Yankees pitcher  Andy Pettitte  and
National Football League quarterback Chad Pennington, will
perform the surgery to repair a partial tear of Harvey’s ulnar
collateral ligament later this month, the Mets said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement.  The team did not disclose how long it expected Harvey, 24,
to be out of action.  Andrews specializes in the operation known as Tommy John
surgery, in which the UCL -- the primary stabilizing ligament in
the inner elbow -- is replaced with a tendon from another part
of the patient’s body.  The procedure is named after the former major league
pitcher who first had the surgery in 1974. Tommy John surgery
requires about a year of recovery time, meaning Harvey would be
lost for the entire 2014 season. Washington Nationals pitcher
 Stephen Strasburg  had the surgery in September 2010 and returned
almost exactly a year later.  The Mets said on Sept. 17 that Harvey decided to forgo
immediate surgery in favor of a program to strengthen the injury
with the goal of pitching in 2014. He had planned to begin a
six-to-eight week throwing program, after which he would decide
whether surgery was necessary.  In his second year with the Mets, Harvey was one of  Major
League Baseball ’s most dominant pitchers this season, going 9-5
with a 2.27 earned run average in 178 1/3 innings, striking out
191 batters. He started the All-Star Game at the Mets’ Citi
Field.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  