-- Europe Stocks Little Changed as U.S. Shutdown Continues
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-10-04T15:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/european-stock-index-futures-little-changed-on-shutdown.html
European  stocks  were little changed,
falling for a second consecutive week, as negotiations between
U.S. lawmakers on the  federal budget  and debt limit dragged into
a fourth day.  Nokian Renkaat (NRE1V)  Oyj slid the most in almost a year after the
Finnish tiremaker cut its profit and sales forecasts for 2013
because of weaker demand in Russia and the decline of the ruble
against the euro.  Voestalpine AG (VOE)  lost 2.3 percent as Citigroup
Inc. cut its rating on the steelmaker. Lindt & Spruengli AG
jumped to its highest price since 2007 after saying it will buy
back shares worth about 450 million Swiss francs ($498 million).  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.1 percent to 309.89 at
the close of trading. The equity gauge slipped 0.7 percent this
week amid investor concern about the U.S. budget talks, trimming
its gains in 2013 to 11 percent. The measure has fallen 1.6
percent since reaching its highest level in more than five years
on Sept. 19.  “With every day that passes without a solution, people are
getting more nervous,” Tobias Britsch, who helps overseee about
$35 billion at Meriten Investment Management GmbH, said by phone
from Dusseldorf,  Germany . “The economic recovery in the U.S. is
not that strong and the impact of the shutdown globally should
not be underestimated. If 800,000 people are not going into
work, that will hit  consumer confidence  in an economy which is
very driven by the consumer.”  The number of shares trading hands in Stoxx 600-listed
companies was 13 percent greater than the average of the past 30
sessions, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  U.S. Shutdown  In the U.S., as many as 800,000 federal employees remain
temporarily out of work as lawmakers wrangle over the budget for
the new financial year, which started Oct. 1. A monthly jobs
report due today was delayed.  Congress also faces a dispute over raising the $16.7
trillion  debt ceiling  this month. The Treasury has said that it
will exhaust measures to avoid exceeding the borrowing limit on
Oct. 17. If that happens, the government would run out of cash
to pay all of its bills at some point between Oct. 22 and Oct.
31, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  House Speaker  John Boehner  told reporters today that the
way to reopen the partially shut government is for Democrats to
negotiate with him and accept changes that would produce
“fairness” under the Affordable Care Act.  The Ohio Republican also said he doesn’t want the U.S. to
default on its debt.  The Treasury Department said yesterday that a federal
default could lead to a recession comparable to the 2008
financial crisis or worse. Separately, International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in a speech in
Washington that it’s “mission-critical” for the U.S. to raise
the borrowing limit as a default would damage the world economy.  ‘Small Risk’  “The main focus is the debt ceiling debate but the risk of
default is very small because the consequences are so severe,”
Graham Bishop, the London-based senior equity strategist at
Exane BNP Paribas, said in an interview.  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit
rating in August 2011 amid a similar stalemate between Obama and
Congress over whether to raise the debt ceiling, and the  S&P 500 
fell more than 11 percent in three days.  The losses were later reversed, as the  Federal Reserve 
pledged to hold the benchmark  interest rate  near zero and
maintain bond purchases to support the economy. The S&P 500
gained 25 percent in the 12 months through August 2012.  Investors are watching Fed officials today for indications
of when policy makers will begin paring the bond-buying program.  Fed Speakers  Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  reiterated in a
speech in  Little Rock ,  Arkansas , that he wanted stimulus
tapering to begin in September. Fed Bank of Minneapolis
President Narayana Kocherlakota speaks on monetary policy after
the close of European trading in  Minnesota .  National benchmark indexes gained in 13 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K’s FTSE 100 added 0.1 percent, France’s
CAC 40 rose 0.9 percent and Germany’s DAX increased 0.3 percent.  Nokian Renkaat slumped 7.6 percent to 34.69 euros.
Operating profit and net sales will fall this year from 2012,
the company said in a statement today. That compares to an
August prediction that sales and profit could increase in the
full-year.  Voestalpine slipped 2.3 percent to 34.67 euros in Vienna.
Citigroup cut its recommendation to neutral from buy, saying the
stock is expensive after  rallying  more than 50 percent since
April 18. The brokerage also cut its rating on the European
steel sector to underweight, similar to sell, saying hopes the
industry will emerge from its current weakness are unfounded.  Italian Gains  Italy’s  FTSE MIB (FTSEMIB)  climbed 1.6 percent as a Senate panel
recommended Silvio Berlusconi’s expulsion from the upper house
because of his conviction for  tax fraud . The recommendation must
still be put before the Senate for a final vote. Banks led gains
in Italy, with UniCredit SpA rising 3.4 percent to 5.23 euros,
its highest price since December 2011, and Mediobanca SpA
advancing 4.4 percent to 5.91 euros.  Lindt (LISP)  climbed 3.6 percent to 44,430 francs after the
world’s largest premium chocolate maker said it will begin
purchasing shares at the end of this month until the end of
2014, while maintaining its current dividend policy.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG rose 2.1 percent to 14.41 euros.
Europe’s second-largest airline said operating losses at its
Germanwings discount carrier will fall by 90 million euros ($122
million) this year. In a statement on its website late
yesterday, Lufthansa also said that costs for upgrading cabins
and lounges will exceed 500 million euros through 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  