-- Europe Stocks Post Second Weekly Drop Amid U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-10-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/europe-stocks-post-second-weekly-drop-amid-u-s-shutdown.html
European stocks  posted a second week
of losses as a standoff between U.S. lawmakers led to the first
government shutdown in 17 years for the world’s biggest economy.  Unilever led food and beverage stocks lower, falling 3.7
percent, after posting a slowdown in quarterly sales growth.
Nokian Renkaat Oyj tumbled the most in almost a year after
cutting its earnings forecast. Mediobanca SpA and Banca Popolare
di Milano Scarl led a rally in Italian banks as Prime Minister
Enrico Letta won a confidence vote.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.7 percent to 309.89 this
past week, after declining 0.6 percent in the previous five
days. The gauge has still  climbed  11 percent in 2013 as the euro
area emerged from a recession and central banks maintained
stimulus measures to support the global economy.  “The U.S. shutdown is a comment on the dysfunctional ways
of U.S. politics,” Andrew Parry, who oversees about 2 billion
euros ($2.7 billion) at Hermes Sourcecap Ltd. in  London , said in
a phone interview. “We came out of the summer months too
optimistic about Europe, so some pause for breath was needed. We
saw the profit warning from Nokian Renkaat and the numbers from
Unilever. I think we’ll continue to get more profit warnings
going into the earnings season.”  The U.S. government began a partial shutdown on Oct. 1
after Democrats and Republicans failed to agree on a budget,
closing some services and placing as many as 800,000 federal
employees on unpaid leave. A two-week halt could shave 0.25
percentage point off fourth-quarter economic growth, Federal
Reserve Bank of San Francisco President John Williams forecast.  Debt Limit  In addition to passing a budget, Congress must authorize an
increase to the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling this month to avoid
a default. The Treasury has said it will exhaust measures to
stay within the limit by Oct. 17 and warned that a default could
have catastrophic consequences that might last for decades. The
government will run out of cash to pay bills between Oct. 22 and
Oct. 31, according to the Congressional Budget Office.  House Republicans met in  Washington  yesterday to discuss
their negotiating tactics, with Speaker John Boehner telling
party members that he will not allow a U.S. default, according
to a person in the room speaking on condition of anonymity.  “This is political posturing rather than any interest in
achieving actual results,” Parry said. “We’re already getting
hints of the Republican party backing down.”  National benchmark indexes fell in 11 of the 18 western
European markets this week.  Germany ’s DAX retreated 0.4 percent,
while the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  lost 0.9 percent.  France ’s CAC 40
decreased 0.5 percent.  Italy Vote  Italy’s FTSE MIB surged 3.7 percent, the most since July.
Letta won a confidence vote on Oct. 2 with support from former
premier Silvio Berlusconi, who reversed his position after
initially trying to bring down the five-month-old government by
withdrawing his ministers from the coalition.  Popolare di Milano surged 16 percent and Mediobanca gained
12 percent in Milan trading. UniCredit SpA,  Italy ’s largest
lender, advanced 9.6 percent.  Unilever dropped 3.7 percent in London trading after saying
Sept. 30 that underlying revenue for the third quarter rose 3
percent to 3.5 percent. The world’s second-biggest consumer-goods maker reported 5 percent growth in the first half and
second quarter.  A gauge of food and beverage stocks was the  second-worst 
performer among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600. Nestle SA,
the world’s biggest food company, lost 1.7 percent.  SABMiller Plc slipped 4.8 percent for its biggest weekly
decline since November 2011 amid a strike at its South African
beer division.  Nokian Renkaat  Nokian Renkaat tumbled 9.7 percent, the biggest weekly drop
since October 2012. Full-year net sales and operating profit
will decline because of the ruble’s retreat against the euro,
the Nordic region’s biggest tiremaker said.  Hochtief AG, which owns a controlling stake in Leighton
Holdings Ltd., lost 4.9 percent for the largest slide since
June. Leighton,  Australia ’s biggest builder, allegedly paid
bribes to win contracts, the Age newspaper reported. Former
chiefs Wal King and David Stewart were aware of the conduct,
according to the report.  Leighton has been under investigation by the Australian
Federal Police since at least February 2012 after the company
reported potentially illegal activity at its subsidiary Leighton
Offshore Pte. in  Iraq . King denied the allegation and a
spokeswoman for Stewart declined to comment.  Randgold Resources Ltd. slid 3.5 percent and Fresnillo Plc,
which produces gold and silver in  Mexico , tumbled 8.7 percent as
prices of precious metals fell this week. A  gauge  of mining
companies was the worst performing group on the Stoxx 600.  Schibsted ASA surged 11 percent to the highest price since
at least 1992 after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. began coverage of
 Norway ’s biggest media company with a buy rating.  “The company is quickly shifting focus to online
classifieds, which offer much higher and more stable growth
prospects,” Goldman Sachs analyst Markus Iwar wrote in a note,
adding the stock to the brokerage’s conviction list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  