-- Facebook’s Instagram to Add Advertising: SF Mover
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-10-04T20:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/facebook-s-instagram-to-add-advertising-sf-mover.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , operator of the
world’s most popular social network, rose in trading today after
it said it would sell advertising on its Instagram photo
service, the first effort to make money from the acquisition.  Shares rose 3.8 percent to close at $51.04 in New York,
near their all-time high. Instagram promotions will start to
appear on the mobile application, which lets users share images
from smartphones, in the next couple of months in the U.S.,
Facebook said in a  blog post  yesterday.  Facebook is seeking new ways to drive revenue from mobile
devices as users increasingly access digital services from
wireless devices. Mobile made up 41 percent of ad revenue in the
second quarter, up from 30 percent in the previous period.  “There just continues to be momentum, continues to be good
news,” said  Benjamin Schachter , an analyst at Macquarie
Securities USA Inc. “Even though the Instagram news was
somewhat expected over time -- we’ve been waiting for the
announcement this year, and yeah, it’s going to be a positive.”  Instagram will deliver a “small number” of pictures and
videos from a handful of companies that users aren’t necessarily
following, the company said.  “Our aim is to make any advertisements you see feel as
natural to Instagram as the photos and videos many of you
already enjoy from your favorite brands,” Instagram said on the
blog. “After all, our team doesn’t just build Instagram, we use
it each and every day. We want these ads to be enjoyable and
creative in much the same way you see engaging, high-quality ads
when you flip through your favorite magazine.”  Users will be able to hide promotions they don’t like, the
app developer said. They can also give feedback about what
doesn’t “feel right” about the ads. Instagram, which Facebook
bought for more than $700 million last year, has more than  150
million users , up from more than 130 million in June.  Facebook, based in Menlo Park,  California , has continued to
update the service. Instagram unveiled tools in July that lets
members embed photos and videos on outside websites, including
blogs and news providers. Videos were added to the photo-sharing
app in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  