-- Fed’s Lacker Says Monetary Policy Is Limited in Boosting Jobs
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-10-04T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/fed-s-lacker-says-monetary-policy-is-limited-in-boosting-jobs.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker , who has opposed additional stimulus,
said  monetary policy  is restricted in its ability to improve the
labor market.  “As we’ve seen during the recovery from the Great
Recession, there are significant limits to the power of monetary
policy to affect the real economy,” Lacker, who doesn’t vote on
policy this year, said in a speech in Baltimore today. He didn’t
comment on the outlook for monetary policy or the economy in his
prepared remarks.  Policy makers are debating how to curb record stimulus amid
a deadlock over the federal government’s budget and disagreement
on raising the debt ceiling to avoid default. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  at its next gathering on Oct. 29-30 will weigh
the impact from the government’s partial shutdown as they debate
tapering the $85 billion pace of monthly bond buying to boost
the labor market.  “Federal Reserve policy actions cannot necessarily
counteract the effects of fiscal policy uncertainty, declining
productivity growth or structural changes in the labor market --
all of which now appear to be playing a role to some degree,”
Lacker said to the Council for Economic Education conference.  Lacker, in prior speeches, has said unemployment remains
elevated because the labor market has become less efficient in
matching jobs with needed worker skills.  The Richmond Fed president today said higher education
wasn’t the right choice for all students, though completing
college work boosted earnings for most graduates.  “A better focus might be educating students about both the
risks and rewards of college so they can understand whether it
is the right choice for them and how to enhance their prospects
of success,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  