-- Fidelity National Falls as Shutdown Seen Hurting Sales
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-10-04T20:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/fidelity-national-falls-as-shutdown-seen-hurting-sales.html
Fidelity National Financial Inc. (FNF)  fell
for a fourth straight day as  Fitch Ratings  said that the partial
U.S. government shutdown stands to hurt title insurers because
it could harm housing.  Fidelity National, the largest U.S. title insurer, slipped
0.5 percent to $26.19 at 4:15 p.m. in New York.  First American
Financial Corp. (FAF) , the No. 2 seller of the coverage, dropped 1.2
percent. The companies use their records to check that a seller
is a property’s true owner and that it’s free from liens.  Republicans and Democrats are deadlocked on spending
legislation, leading to a partial government shutdown and the
furlough of about 800,000 federal employees. Closures at the
Internal Revenue Service, Social Security Administration and
Department of Housing and Urban Development could delay needed
verifications that help complete home sales, Fitch said.  “Title insurers are sensitive to macroeconomic factors
such as employment levels, consumer sentiment, and  interest
rates  and therefore the duration of the shutdown is a vital
factor in determining its affect,” Fitch said today in a
statement. “The longer the government shutdown lasts, the
bigger the potential profitability impact to title insurers.”  Tax Records  The absence of federal workers who verify Social Security
numbers and provide IRS tax records may delay some loan
approvals. Many lenders use tax transcripts to confirm the
returns that borrowers provide are valid. Borrowers who are
seeking mortgages backed by the  Federal Housing Administration 
may also see delays.  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI) , the largest homebuilder by revenue, fell
2.8 percent to $18.54. The Fort Worth, Texas-based company has
lost 6.3 percent this year.  Fidelity National, based in Jacksonville, Florida, is up 11
percent in 2013, and Santa Ana, California-based First American
has advanced 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net 
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  