-- FIFA Will Wait to Decide on Dates for 2022 World Cup in Qatar
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-10-04T23:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/fifa-will-consult-tv-companies-leagues-on-2022-qatar-world-cup.html
FIFA  will decide on the dates of the
2022 World Cup in  Qatar  after next year’s tournament in Brazil
as the soccer ruling body confronts concerns about high
temperatures in the emirate, President Sepp Blatter said.  “We are going to carry out consultations that will include
all the participants” including players, clubs, leagues,
national associations, and media, Blatter said yesterday at a
press conference. “The FIFA 2022 World Cup will be played in
Qatar. There is no reason to question that decision.”  FIFA’s top officials met in Zurich to discuss whether to
move the event to the winter to avoid the summer heat in the
emirate three years after backing Qatar as the first Arab host
of the World Cup. They also discussed an increase in deaths of
Nepalese immigrants in Qatar, some of whom are working on
tournament projects.  Qatar plans to spend more than $200 billion on
infrastructure, including a rail and metro network and $9
billion on stadiums. A date change could set up conflict with
 England ’s Premier League and other European championships,
forcing them to rearrange their schedules. Broadcasters,
including Fox Sports in the U.S., have complained about
rescheduling because games might conflict with other sports,
such as the National Football League.  Closed Doors  FIFA executives didn’t think through their 2010 decision to
award the World Cup to Qatar, according to Borja Garcia, a
lecturer in sports management and policy at the U.K.’s
Loughborough University.  “It was just 24 people making a decision behind closed
doors, and they were a bit dazzled by Qatar’s wealth,” Garcia
said by telephone. “There is a risk players might not want to
go, which could devalue the tournament.”  FIFA executives picked Qatar as host ahead of  Australia ,
 Japan  and South Korea and the U.S., even after an evaluation
report by the soccer authority’s own officials that said it was
a “potential health risk” for players and fans to play matches
there in June and July.  Qatar organizers say temperatures as high as 50 degrees
Centigrade (122 degrees Fahrenheit) could be mitigated by air
conditioning systems in stadiums, although they are open to
changing the dates.  Able to Accommodate  “If the international football community reaches a
consensus to move the event to an alternate date, we are able to
accommodate that change,” the Qatar 2022 Supreme Committee said
in a statement. “This would not affect our planning and
preparation.”  Fox agreed to pay a record $425 million for U.S. broadcast
rights to the World Cups in 2018 and 2022, and is opposed to
moving the date. The price is more than four times what current
rights holder ESPN paid for the 2010 World Cup in South Africa
and next year’s edition in  Brazil .  FIFA and Qatar are having to contend with a “Euro-centric” approach toward soccer’s calendar, according to
Wolfgang Maennig, an economics professor at the University of
Hamburg who is a consultant to the German Olympic Committee and
has written about the World Cup.  “Our European view is that it’s a European game but it’s
not -- it’s a world game,” Maennig said. “The world is not
based on northern Europe.”  Some of 400,000 Nepali workers in Qatar -- which has a
population of 2 million and is the richest nation by capita --
are employed by sub-contractors at Lusail City, a town under
construction near where the opening ceremony is planned.
Building work on as many as nine stadiums hasn’t started yet,
according to Qatari officials.  Worker Deaths  Several construction workers in their 20s have died of
cardiac arrests in Qatar in June and July, according to Nicholas
McGeehan, a spokesman in London for  Human Rights Watch , citing
information from Nepal’s embassy in Doha.  An embassy official said in a Sept. 30 interview that 53
Nepalis died between June 4 and Aug. 8, an increase of 51
percent compared to June and July 2012, without giving more
details. A similar death toll was first reported by the U.K.’s
Guardian newspaper last week.  Developer Lusail City, which is controlled by Qatari Diar
Real Estate Investment Co., said in a Sept. 26 statement it
employs 20,000 people directly or through contractors and the
“vast majority” exceed labor law requirements. Among
regulations is that workers aren’t allowed to toil during the
middle of the day in the summer.  Safeguarding Health  Qatar’s World Cup committee said in a statement its first
priority is to safeguard the health of workers, and the
government is investigating the “allegations” by the Guardian
newspaper and humans rights groups.  All workers “have a right to be treated in a manner that
ensures at all times their well-being, safety, security, and
dignity,” the committee said in the statement.  Under a patronage system in Qatar, migrant workers can only
enter and leave the emirate at the request of an employer and
some have their passports confiscated by sub-contractors and
live in “appalling” conditions that are dirty, cramped and
poorly-ventilated, McGeehan said.  “The most shocking thing is that they are trapped there,”
McGeehan, who visited Doha last month, said by telephone. “They
can’t come and go as they please.”  Blatter said FIFA has been contacted by Amnesty
International and other organizations that raised concerns about
the workers’ health.  “It’s not FIFA’s responsibility but we cannot turn a blind
eye,” said Blatter, who added that he will travel to Qatar to
meet the country’s new Emir. “It’s a courtesy visit but I will
also touch on the concern” about workers’ rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Zurich at  at  aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in  London  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  