-- FIFA Mulls Qatar Soccer World Cup Schedule, Worker Deaths
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-10-04T08:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/fifa-mulls-qatar-soccer-world-cup-schedule-worker-deaths-1-.html
FIFA executives today will discuss
whether to move the 2022 World Cup in  Qatar  to the winter to
avoid the summer heat in the emirate.  The soccer ruling body’s executives are considering the
option, three years after they voted for the first Arab host.
They will also discuss an increase in deaths of Nepalese
immigrants in Qatar, some of whom are working on tournament
projects.  Qatar plans to spend more than $200 billion on
infrastructure, including a rail and metro network and $9
billion on stadiums. It says it’s investigating the workers’
deaths and is open to switching the World Cup dates. FIFA
spokesman Walter de Gregorio said yesterday there are no plans
for the tournament to be relocated.  A change in the dates of the World Cup could set up
conflict with the  England ’s Premier League and other European
championships, which would have to rearrange their schedules.
Fox Sports in the U.S. has complained rescheduling would clash
with the National Football League.  FIFA executives didn’t think through their 2010 decision to
award the World Cup to Qatar, according to Borja Garcia, a
lecturer in sports management and policy at the U.K.’s
Loughborough University.  “It was just 24 people making a decision behind closed
doors, and they were a bit dazzled by Qatar’s wealth,” Garcia
said by phone. “There is a risk players might not want to go,
which could devalue the tournament.”  Qatar Selection  FIFA executives picked Qatar as host ahead of  Australia ,
 Japan  and South Korea and the U.S., even after an evaluation
report by the soccer authority’s own officials that said it was
a “potential health risk” for players and fans by playing
matches there in June and July.  Qatar organizers say temperatures as high as 50 degrees
Centigrade (122 degrees Fahrenheit) could be mitigated by air
conditioning systems in stadiums, although they are open to
changing the dates.  “If the international football community reaches a
consensus to move the event to an alternate date, we are able to
accommodate that change,” the Qatar 2022 Supreme Committee said
in a statement. “This would not affect our planning and
preparation.”  FIFA and Qatar are having to contend with a “Euro-centric” approach toward soccer’s calendar, according to
Wolfgang Maennig, an economics professor at the University of
Hamburg who is a consultant to the German Olympic Committee and
has written about the World Cup.  World Game  “Our European view is that it’s a European game but it’s
not -- it’s a world game,” Maennig said. “The world is not
based on northern Europe.”  Karl-Heinz Rummenigge, the head of a group representing
Europe’s top soccer clubs, said FIFA must include teams and
players in any decision to change the dates of the World Cup. He
said 75 percent of national team players at the World Cup are
under contract with European clubs.  “We have to be sitting at the table when it comes to a
final decision,” he said.  Some of 400,000 Nepali workers in Qatar -- which has a
population of 2 million and is the richest nation by capita --
are employed by sub-contractors at Lusail City, a town under
construction near where the opening ceremony is planned.
Building work on as many as nine stadiums hasn’t started yet,
according to Qatari officials.  Worker Danger?  Several construction workers in their 20s have died of
cardiac arrests in Qatar in June and July, according to Nicholas
McGeehan, a spokesman in  London  for  Human Rights Watch , citing
information from Nepal’s embassy in Doha.  An embassy official said in a Sept. 30 interview that 53
Nepalis died between June 4 and Aug. 8, an increase of 51
percent compared to June and July 2012, without giving more
details. A similar death toll was first reported by the U.K.’s
Guardian newspaper last week.  Developer Lusail City, which is controlled by Qatari Diar
Real Estate Investment Co., said in a Sept. 26 statement it
employs 20,000 people directly or through contractors and the
“vast majority” exceed labor law requirements. Among
regulations is that workers aren’t allowed to toil during the
middle of the day in the summer.  Qatar’s World Cup committee said in a statement its first
priority is to safeguard the health of workers, and the
government is investigating the “allegations” by the Guardian
newspaper and humans rights groups.  All workers “have a right to be treated in a manner that
ensures at all times their well-being, safety, security, and
dignity,” the committee said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  