-- Finmeccanica Said to Mull $1.6 Billion Ansaldo Unit Offer
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l ,   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-10-04T16:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/finmeccanica-board-said-to-consider-cut-in-ansaldo-energia-stake.html
Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  board members are
meeting today to discuss the sale of most of the Italian
aerospace and defense company’s stake in power-plant division
Ansaldo Energia SpA, three people familiar with the matter said.  State lender Cassa Depositi & Prestiti SpA has offered to
buy 85 percent of the Genoa-based unit for as much as 1.2
billion euros ($1.6 billion), said the people, who asked not to
be named because talks aren’t public. CDP would buy a 40 percent
holding from Finmeccanica, leaving it with 15 percent, while
private-equity firm First Reserve exits a 45 percent stake.  Finmeccanica, controlled by the Italian Treasury with a
near 30 percent holding, has been trying for more than a year to
raise at least 1 billion euros via asset sales to pare almost 5
billion euros in debt. A management reshuffle, inconclusive
Italian elections in February and opposition from unions and
lawmakers have delayed the process.  Italy’s No. 1 aerospace company, which has seen its  credit
rating  downgraded in the absence of disposals, said Aug. 1 that
net debt should fall to 3.3 billion euros by the end of the
year, even without asset sales.  U.S.-based First Reserve took a stake in the energy unit in
2011 in a deal that valued the business at 1.23 billion euros.  Job Concern  Finmeccanica’s board will approve the deal, which includes
a condition for it to keep the 15 percent stake until 2017, a
union official said after a meeting between Chief Executive
Officer Alessandro Pansa and labor groups. He declined to be
named, citing union policy.  Finmeccanica  closed  0.6 percent higher in Milan, giving a
market value of 3 billion euros. The stock, which has risen for
four days, has advanced 20 percent this year.  The Italian government has been studying a plan to tap
Cassa Depositi’s 4 billion-euro Fondo Strategico Italiano SpA to
invest in Finmeccanica units and address union concern about  job
security , Finance Deputy Minister Stefano Fassina said Sept. 30
in an interview.  A press officer for Cassa Depositi declined to comment on
the offer. Finmeccanica said in a statement that a board meeting
was planned for 4 p.m. local time, adding that no decision has
been taken on Ansaldo Energia.  Avio Exit  South Korean manufacturer  Doosan Heavy Industries &
Construction Co. (034020) , which had been in advanced talks for Ansaldo
Energia, will not be involved in the initial transaction, the
people said. The government may sell a stake in a second
transaction to an international partner, they said.  Finmeccanica, which will receive 260 million euros for its
stake in aircraft engine maker Avio following a sale of the
business to  General Electric Co. (GE)  by private equity firm Cinven
Ltd., could pare assets further.  The defense company is also seeking to sell stakes in
unprofitable wholly owned trainmaking unit AnsaldoBreda and
possibly in its listed rail-signaling unit  Ansaldo STS SpA (STS) ,
which Finmeccanica controls with a 40 percent stake.  The Ansaldo deal “is expected to grant Finmeccanica a
cash-in” of around 550 million euros, Gabriele Gambarova, an
analyst at Banca Akros, said in a note yesterday, lifting the
recommendation on the stock to a buy from add. The sale of
Ansaldo and the Avio stake would “greatly reduce the risk of a
capital increase, a scenario played by several  hedge funds .”  Cassa Depositi may also announce it’s looking at buying
part of trainmaking unit AnsaldoBreda, one person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  