-- First Global Emissions Market for Airlines Wins Support
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-10-04T03:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/first-global-emissions-market-for-airlines-wins-support.html
China ,  India  and the U.S. joined
other nations in approving a road map for building the first
global market to reduce emissions from the $708 billion airlines
industry.  The executive committee of the  International Civil Aviation
Organization ’s assembly backed a draft measure that would set
final details in 2016 for a market starting in 2020. The
restrictions for airlines, which need approval at a plenary
meeting tomorrow, is unprecedented for a single global industry.  In a blow to the European Union, envoys gathered in
Montreal declined to validate its plan to include aviation in
the EU emissions trading system prior to the start of the
international program. Russia, Argentina and others rejected the
28-nation EU’s offer to scale back the geographic scope of its
carbon curbs on airlines in exchange for a global commitment to
reduce pollution from the industry, which emits 2 percent of
 greenhouse gases  globally.  “After some very challenging discussions, including
compromises by all parties, ICAO has made a strong commitment in
favor of taking multilateral action to tackle  climate change ,”
said Todd Stern, the U.S. special envoy on climate.  The issue of aviation emissions made it to the top of the
ICAO agenda after the EU expanded its carbon market in 2012 to
cover carriers from around the world, a step that triggered
protests from China and  Saudi Arabia  to  Brazil .  Europe , which
wants to be the leader in cutting greenhouse gases, has said its
goal was to encourage an international solution. Reducing carbon
dioxide would help limit global warming that exacerbates heat
waves, flooding and intense storms, according to UN scientists.  Limited EU Market  Envoys voted today 97 to 39, with nine abstentions, to
remove a provision allowing the EU to continue a limited market
for carriers. Instead, the measure encourages member states to
agree on designs and implementations for new and existing CO2
markets. The draft would also give an initial exemption to
routes to and from developing states if their share of
international civil aviation is below 1 percent.  “If this were a boxing match, the EU emissions trading
system sadly is down on the mat,” said Jean Leston, transport
policy manager at the U.K. branch of environment lobby WWF.  The EU, which suspended its carbon curbs on foreign flights
for a year to facilitate ICAO talks, will now have to decide if
the deal is strong enough to relax its emission rules. The
freeze will expire automatically next year unless the bloc’s
regulator moves to renew it. That would mean the system returns
to its original design, where flights to and from Europe were
subject to greenhouse gas limits at their entire length.  Trade War  Restoring full EU curbs on international routes would mean
a trade war, and if it takes place, major countries won’t comply
with the bloc’s carbon rules, India’s representative to ICAO
Prashant Sukul said earlier this week.  Before Europe suspended carbon curbs on foreign flights,
President  Barack Obama  signed a bill shielding carriers
including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  from the EU legislation, and
Russia announced it was considering limits on European flights
over Siberia as part of possible retaliatory measures. Airbus
SAS said in June that 27 orders from China for A330 wide-body
jetliners are still in limbo after the government there froze
the contracts as part of a campaign against the EU plans.  The compromise deal approved today requests that the 36-nation ICAO Council finish work on technical aspects and options
for a global carbon market. The outcome will be reported to the
agency’s next triennial assembly for a decision.  “After a difficult day, ICAO is back on track for building
a consensus for tomorrow,” EU Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas said on his Twitter account. “Wishing them success!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in  Montreal  at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  