-- France Cuts Wine Outlook Third Time on Hail Damage in Champagne
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-04T16:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/france-cuts-wine-outlook-third-time-on-hail-damage-in-champagne.html
France  lowered its wine production
outlook for a third time since July as the Champagne region
forecast was reduced due to damage from summer hailstorms.  Volumes may rise 6.6 percent to 44.1 million hectoliters
(1.16 billion gallons) from 41.4 million hectoliters in 2012,
the  Agriculture Ministry  wrote in a  report  today. The forecast
was cut by 374,000 hectoliters from a month ago, equivalent to
50 million bottles.  After a cold and wet spring hampered flowering, followed by
hail damage in Burgundy and Bordeaux, France’s production of
designated-origin wines is forecast to be little changed from a
year earlier at 19.8 million hectoliters, the report showed.
Output of wine for distilling and lower-priced generic wines is
predicted to rise.  “The harvests are starting late, in September for those
most advanced but for the most part the volumes should be
gathered in October,” the ministry wrote.  The fungus botrytis is developing on white-wine grapes in
Burgundy as well as grapes in Bordeaux, the Charentes region and
France’s southwest, which may prompt growers to accelerate the
harvest, according to the report.  In the  Champagne  region, production is still forecast to
jump 43 percent from 2012, when vines supplying grapes for the
bubbly wine named after the region suffered from frost damage,
mildew and the fungus oidium. The region’s wine volume is
predicted to jump to 2.82 million hectoliters from a previous
outlook for 2.99 million hectoliters.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, based in Paris, is the
world’s largest maker of champagne, with  brands  including Moet &
Chandon and  Dom Perignon .  Vranken-Pommery Monopole SA (VRAP)  ranks
second, followed by Pernod-Ricard SA and Laurent-Perrier.  2012 Vintage  France’s 2012 vintage was the smallest in more than four
decades after grapes across the country suffered from drought,
humidity, frost, disease and hail, with final output more than
10 percent below an initial forecast.  Volume in the Bordeaux region, France’s biggest producer of
designated-origin wines, may fall 19 percent to 4.43 million
hectoliters, unchanged from last month’s outlook.  Hailstorms in the Bordeaux region at the start of August
damaged vines in the Libournais area that includes Pomerol and
Saint-Emilion, as well as the Entre-Deux-Mers area. That caused
losses estimated at about 78 million bottles.  The harvest of white-wine grapes is nearing completion in
Bordeaux, while gathering of the red-wine grapes started at the
end of September, the ministry wrote.  The outlook for  Burgundy  and Beaujolais was raised to 2.19
million hectoliters from 2.18 million hectoliters a month ago as
September rain favored filling of grapes in Beaujolais,
according to the report. The volume is expected to climb 21
percent from 2012.  In Languedoc-Roussillon, France’s biggest wine region by
total volume, the outlook was unchanged, with production seen
rising 10 percent to 13.2 million hectoliters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  