-- German Stocks Pare Decline as Deutsche Telekom Advances
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-10-04T08:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/german-stocks-drop-a-fourth-day-as-heidelbergcement-falls.html
  German stocks  pared their decline as
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  climbed, while the impasse over the U.S.
federal budget and debt limit clouded the outlook for growth in
the world’s largest economy.  Continental AG (CON)  retreated 1.1 percent as a gauge of auto-related shares dropped. Deutsche Telekom AG advanced 1.8 percent
after UBS AG upgraded Germany’s largest phone company.  The  DAX (DAX)  slipped 0.1 percent to 8,586.98 at 10:35 a.m. in
Frankfurt, paring an earlier decline of as much as 0.3 percent.
The equity benchmark has fallen 0.9 percent this week. It rose
6.1 percent in September as the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly
refrained from paring bond purchases. The broader HDAX Index
fell 0.2 percent today.  “If the  U.S. Congress  does not raise the debt limit and
the U.S. defaults on its obligations, that would be catastrophic
for financial markets and the economy, potentially resulting in
more damage than the financial crisis in 2008,” Daniel Kukalj,
an equity analyst at Close Brothers Seydler Research AG in
Frankfurt, wrote in a note. “This game of cat and mouse may end
not only with a disaster for the  U.S. economy ; it would also
have a big impact on the global economy.”  In the U.S., the partial government shutdown entered its
fourth day today, with as many as 800,000 federal employees
temporarily out of work, as lawmakers wrangled over the budget
for the new financial year, which started on Oct. 1. The Labor
Department has postponed the publication of its monthly jobs
report, which was due today.  Borrowing Limit  Congress also faces a dispute over raising the $16.7
trillion  debt ceiling  this month. The Treasury has said that it
will exhaust measures to avoid exceeding the borrowing limit on
Oct. 17. If that happens, the government would run out of cash
to pay all of its bills at some point between Oct. 22 and Oct.
31, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  The Treasury Department said yesterday that a federal
default could lead to a recession comparable to the 2008
financial crisis. Separately, International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in a speech in
Washington that “it is mission critical that this be resolved
as soon as possible.”  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 16 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  