-- German Investors Reduce Government Bond Holdings, Greenwich Says
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-10-04T09:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/german-investors-reduce-government-bond-holdings-greenwich-says.html
German institutional investors plan
to curb their holdings of  government bonds  in the next three
years in favor of higher-yielding assets as interest rates
remain subdued, researcher Greenwich Associates said.  The investors have increasingly diversified into emerging-market debt and other assets with higher returns while reducing
allocations to fixed-income funds that track indexes,  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based Greenwich said in a  report  published
yesterday, citing a survey of 250 institutions.  “Over the past 12 months, institutions have increased
allocations to active global bonds, emerging-markets debt and
high yield,” Greenwich said in the report. “Expectations to
decrease government bonds exposure further also continue, with
emerging-market debt, high yield and active global bonds
anticipated to continue to be beneficiaries.”  German institutional investors also extended duration of
their bond portfolio on bets  interest rates  will stay low for an
extended period, Greenwich said. They now hold ‘virtually no
fixed-income assets with less than five years duration,’’ it
said. Duration is a measure of the sensitivity of a bond’s price
to changes in interest rates.  German institutions are now devoting more than three
fourths of their investment capital to return-seeking as opposed
to meeting liabilities, according to the report.  Respondents gave “top marks” to Allianz Global Investors
and Pacific  Investment Management  Co. for the quality of their
investment management as part of the survey, Greenwich said.  German government bonds declined 1.8 percent this year
while European corporate bonds returned 1.4 percent, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch German Government Index and
Euro Large Cap Corporate Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  