-- German SPD Urges Merkel to Budge on Taxes to Get Coalition Deal
-- B y   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-10-04T09:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/german-spd-urges-merkel-to-budge-on-taxes-to-get-coalition-deal.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
party will have to drop its opposition to tax increases if it
wants a coalition with the  Social Democrats , said Axel Schaefer,
SDP caucus group leader from the party’s regional power base.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led bloc, having refused to
countenance raising taxes, “has erected barriers that I can’t
see being overcome,” Schaefer, who heads the SPD group from
North Rhine-Westphalia, said in a telephone interview two days
ago. The situation is “extremely difficult,” since tax
increases mustn’t be a “taboo,” he said.  Tax policy  is emerging as a key sticking point to coalition
building as exploratory talks begin between the two main parties
in Berlin today. The negotiations begin at 1 p.m. local time and
will probably run for three or four hours, with press statements
likely at about 5 p.m., according to the CDU.  Volker Kauder , the parliamentary caucus leader of Merkel’s
bloc, and  Horst Seehofer , the Bavarian prime minister who heads
her Christian Social Union ally, have both said that tax
increases are a red line that won’t be crossed.  Schaefer, whose region is more skeptical of a so-called
grand coalition with Merkel’s bloc than other SPD factions, said
her party’s position made a compromise “hard to imagine.” He
cited the need to consider tax increases to allow for secure
financing for education, pensions and especially for hard-pressed communities.  Twenty-one people are due to attend the negotiations today:
seven each from Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union and from the
Bavarian CSU, plus seven Social Democrats. Merkel has convened
separate exploratory talks with the Greens next week on Oct. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  