-- Italian Yields Drop on Political Optimism; Portugal’s Bonds Rise
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-10-04T15:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/germany-s-bunds-decline-before-euro-area-producer-prices-report.html
Italian government bonds rose,
extending a weekly advance, on optimism the nation’s coalition
government is stabilizing after Prime Minister Enrico Letta won
a confidence vote in parliament this week.  Italy ’s 10-year securities climbed for the third time in
four days as Letta’s victory averted the risk of holding another
election. Portuguese bonds rose for a second day after the
nation passed the eighth and ninth reviews of its aid plan.
German bonds slid with Treasuries amid speculation U.S.
lawmakers will resolve a standoff over the nation’s budget,
damping demand for the safest assets. Spanish debt also gained.  “We’re probably in the best shape that we’ve been in for
Italian politics in a long time,” Jim McCormick, head of asset-allocation research at Barclays Plc in London, said on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move” with Mark Barton. “You play Italy
week by week, month by month, this has been a good week. Our
strategists think you can still be long peripheral debt in this
market,” referring to a bet the securities of Europe’s most-indebted nations will rise.  Italy’s 10-year yield fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 4.31 percent at 4:18 p.m.  London  time. The
4.5 percent bond due in March 2024 rose 0.48, or 4.80 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,360) face amount, to 101.92. The yield on the
securities has dropped 25 basis points this week  Berlusconi Future  Letta’s five-month-old coalition won support from 235 of
the Senate’s 321 lawmakers on Oct. 2 as former premier Silvio Berlusconi backtracked on his pledge to bring down the
government. Berlusconi’s future in politics hangs in the balance
today after a senate panel recommended his expulsion from the
upper house following an August tax-fraud conviction. The matter
will now be put before the Senate for a final vote.  Portugal’s government yesterday raised its 2014 growth
forecast to 0.8 percent from 0.6 percent, while keeping its
deficit targets unchanged as it attempts to exit its bailout
program. The nation is trying to regain full access to debt
markets with the end of the 78 billion-euro rescue plan
approaching in June 2014.  “There are early signs of a recovery in economic
activity,” the International Monetary Fund said yesterday in a
joint statement with the European Commission and European
Central Bank.  The yield on Portugal’s 10-year bonds dropped 20 basis
points to 6.41 percent after touching 6.39 percent, the lowest
since Aug. 21. The rate on  similar-maturity  Spanish bonds fell
three basis points to 4.22 percent.  Pimco, BlackRock  German bonds declined for the fourth time in five days as
 Bill Gross  of Pacific Investment Management Co. and  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) ’s  Larry Fink  said the U.S. debt standoff will be resolved
soon, limiting damage to the economy.  The benchmark  10-year  (GBTPGR10) bund yield  rose four basis points to
1.83 percent. The yield on 10-year U.S. notes climbed three
basis points to 2.64 percent.  Volatility on Portuguese bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Finland and Italy, according
to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and
10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  An Oct. 10 report will show Italy’s industrial production
rose 0.6 percent in August compared with a 1.1 percent decline
in July, according to the median of economist estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. The nation plans to auction bonds the
following day.  Italian securities returned 4.7 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Spain’s
rose 9.5 percent and  Germany ’s advanced 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  