-- Goldman, Apollo Said Among Bidders for Lloyds Dublin Portfolio
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-10-04T13:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/goldman-apollo-said-among-bidders-for-lloyds-dublin-portfolio.html
U.S. investment firms  Lone Star 
Funds,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) 
are among the bidders for 25 Dublin properties being sold by
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  as it exits Ireland, according to
people with knowledge of the sale.  Davy, Ireland’s largest securities firm, is also involved
in initial bids submitted before the Sept. 30 deadline, said two
of the people. All of the people declined to be identified
because the process is private.  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc., the broker managing the sale, is
seeking 140 million euros ($191 million) for a portfolio called
Ulysses that includes the Justice Ministry’s headquarters as
well as office buildings, stores and apartments.  Ireland’s real estate market, led by Dublin, is emerging
from the biggest slump in western Europe. Income returns from
office buildings in the capital are more than 10.5 percent a
year, the highest among cities covered by research firm
Investment Property Databank Ltd.  Representatives for Goldman, Lone Star, Apollo and  Jones
Lang  declined to comment on the sale. Emile Abu-Shakra, a
spokesman for Lloyds, declined to comment in an e-mail. Davy is
advising an overseas institutional investor on the sale,
according to one of the people. A representative for the firm
also declined to comment on the sale.  Most of the Ulysses properties previously belonged to Liam
Carroll, one of the country’s biggest developers during its
real-estate bubble, who has seen many of his properties seized
by banks.  Lloyds decided three years ago to close the Irish unit it
acquired as part of its 2008 takeover of HBOS Plc and sell or
run off the assets. The bank has taken 12.5 billion pounds ($20
billion) of impairment charges on Irish loans since the nation’s
real-estate market collapsed in 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  