-- Goldman-Backed Essent Adds Wells Fargo as IPO Underwriter
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-10-04T16:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/goldman-backed-essent-adds-wells-fargo-as-ipo-underwriter.html
Essent Group Ltd. (ESNT) , the mortgage
insurer backed by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and billionaire
 George Soros , added Wells Fargo & Co., its largest customer, to
the group of underwriters for an initial public offering.  Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S. home lender, accounted for 17
percent of Essent’s sales in the first six months of this year,
according to a regulatory filing today from the Bermuda-based
insurer. The firm also added  Bank of America Corp. , the third-largest mortgage originator, as an underwriter.  Mortgage insurance , which covers losses when borrowers
default and foreclosures fail to recoup costs, is typically
selected by originators. Essent was founded amid the financial
crisis, when record homeowner defaults pushed some rivals from
the business. As  home prices rise , firms that survived are
attracting investors looking for ways to bet on housing.  “New capital would help fund Essent’s continued growth,”
Helen Remeza, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a
Sept. 23 research note. “A capital raise could also further
differentiate Essent Guaranty from its more weakly capitalized
peers with legacy exposures.”  Wells Fargo (WFC)  is the only customer to account for more than
10 percent of Essent’s revenue, according to the filing. New
York-based Goldman Sachs is leading the offering, with  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , the No. 2 mortgage lender, and Barclays Plc.  Fees for IPO underwriters have averaged more than 5 percent
this year in the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , is the top
underwriter this year, followed by Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan.  JPMorgan, Casale  Wells Fargo has been increasing its market share in U.S.
IPOs this year. The San Francisco-based bank ranks ninth,
compared with 11th in 2012, the data show. Janice Walker, a
spokeswoman for Essent at JD Walker Communications LLC, had no
comment. Wells Fargo’s Jessica Ong declined to comment.  Goldman Sachs owns an 11 percent stake in Essent, as does
an entity tied to Soros Fund Management LLC. JPMorgan controls
8.9 percent. Global Atlantic Financial Group, the insurer
divested by Goldman Sachs this year, also owns 11 percent. Mark Casale, the former executive at mortgage insurer  Radian Group
Inc. (RDN)  who founded Essent, owns 3.9 percent of the shares.  Essent’s stockholders’ equity was $371.2 million as of June
30, compared to $170.1 million a year earlier. The insurer has
drawn $438.3 million of a $600 million commitment from its
backers, according to the filing.  The document lists a $287.5 million price for the offering,
a placeholder amount used to calculate registration fees. A
share price isn’t listed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  