-- Government Workers: Nonessential Until They’re Gone
-- B y   C o n s t a n c e   C a s e y
-- 2013-10-04T16:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/government-workers-nonessential-until-they-re-gone.html
Calvin Beale , a federal employee for
more than 50 years, was an expert on the town of Fayette,
 Mississippi . He was also an excellent source of information if
you happened to be traveling to Grand Forks,  North Dakota ; Estes
Park,  Colorado ; or Ephrata,  Washington .  As the national correspondent for a chain of daily
newspapers, I traveled all over the U.S. and each time I set off
for a new destination I would call Beale, a senior demographer
at the  Department of Agriculture’s Economic Research Service .  He could tell me about the soil type, mineral resources,
crops grown, products manufactured and  unemployment rate  for any
town or region. He could provide the ethnic makeup, religious
affiliations and, my favorite bit of information, most common
surnames for an area. We must have spoken at least 20 times,
though we never met in person. I felt a tremendous pang when I
heard a few years ago that he had died. He was in his 80s. He
never retired.  I think of Beale now with the government  partially shut
down , forcing 800,000 workers deemed “nonessential” to be
furloughed. In “This Town,” the latest inside-Washington  book ,
Mark Leibovich wrote about a city dominated by donor-driven
politicians and overpaid lobbyists. When asked who was doing
good work, who could give us some hope, Leibovich said,
“journalists.” Sure, there are many good journalists, but he’s
overlooking a vital part of Washington: The people Governor
George Wallace used to call “pointy-headed bureaucrats” -- a
phrase that regrettably lingers.  Previous Shutdown  During the shutdown of  1995-1996 , I sat across from a newly
elected conservative member of Congress as he flipped through
the budget and gleefully pointed out all the wasteful
departments that could be dumped.  “The  U.S. Geological Survey , who needs it?” he said.  “People who care about earthquakes, volcanos and
landslides,” I answered.  He went on: “The  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration . We don’t need NOAA because we have the Weather
Channel.”  I sighed.  There is, of course, no longer anyone quite like Beale. But
since leaving the newspaper I’ve begun writing about plants and
animals, and I’ve encountered government workers with plenty of
knowledge to share. State and federal researchers at the  Dauphin
Island Sea Lab  in  Alabama , can tell me how jellyfish have taken
over parts of the ocean. Entomologists at the Agricultural
Research Service regularly bring me up to date on the fortunes
of the endangered honeybee, and explain why the reproductive
rate of pine bark beetles has doubled. Anyone who has visited
the battlefields at Antietam or Gettysburg knows how seriously
the U.S. Park Service takes the stewardship of its sites.  Federal employees , for the most part, aren’t in their jobs
for the money, they choose to work for the government because
they enjoy it. (Disclosure: My husband works for the  National
Institutes of Health , my sister was a producer at Voice of
America, I worked as a clerk-typist for the Commerce Department
making a lowly $1.93 an hour, and my father was a member of
Congress.)  We can’t blame government workers for feeling slapped
around every time a new Congress or administration takes office.
In that 1995 contretemps, federal employees were furloughed for
21 days. Three years ago, the president  froze their pay .
Congress has been cavalier about passing funding bills on time,
relying instead on a nerve-racking series of  stop-gap measures .
The attitude of some members of Congress toward federal workers
may come in part from ignorance about what these workers do.  Essential Services  Some government services can’t be shut down. The  Food and
Drug Administration  still has staff at work inspecting meat and
dairy products. Government services to protect life and property
are considered essential. But the shutdown has forced the
Centers for Disease Control to  suspend  its influenza tracking
and reduced its capacity to investigate outbreaks. Perhaps a flu
pandemic would force the loud minority in Congress to recognize
the value of “nonessential” federal workers.  Government workers do more, of course, than protect us from
food poisoning or flu, or keep track of soil types and surnames.
They support many of the things that make life rich and give us
perspective. During the showdown 17 years ago, the National
Gallery was  shuttered  just as a special exhibit of Vermeer
paintings arrived. The government is filled with curators,
librarians, researchers and archivists who preserve our nation’s
art, artifacts and historic documents.  I would encourage members of Congress to walk around our
nation’s capital. Just a few steps east of the Capitol is the
 Library of Congress , usually staffed by research librarians who
would be delighted to inform the legislators. (One of the
beautiful building’s  many murals  shows the goddess of wisdom
lifting the veil of ignorance.) A few blocks west, a member of
Congress could visit the  National Archives . Lines of tourists
usually circle the block, waiting to see the Declaration of
Independence. Both are closed for now, though I’m sure one of
the people considered essential to the protection of property
would allow a member of Congress to enter and take a long look
at the Constitution.  ( Constance Casey  writes the “ Species ” column for
Landscape Architecture Magazine and the series “ Revolting
Creatures ” for Slate.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Constance Casey at  constancecasey927@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Alex Bruns at  abruns@bloomberg.net . 