-- Ibovespa Futures Fluctuate on Commodities Gain, Petrobras Rating
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-10-04T12:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/ibovespa-futures-fluctuate-on-commodities-gain-petrobras-rating.html
Ibovespa  futures  fluctuated between
gains and losses as higher commodities prices boosted the
outlook for Brazilian raw-material producers and Moody’s
Investors Service cut Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s rating.  HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA  may move after Chief
Executive Officer Milton Romeu Franke said the  oil company  is
seeking a merger to raise capital. Car-rental company Localiza
Rent a Car SA may move after HSBC Holdings Plc rated the stock
the equivalent of buy in new coverage.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in October were little
changed at 52,150 at 9:20 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real climbed
0.3 percent to 2.1996 per dollar.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials
advanced 0.4 percent as investors awaited the outcome of budget
talks in the U.S., with a partial government shutdown entering a
fourth day.  Bill Gross  of Pacific Investment Management Co. and
BlackRock Inc.’s  Larry Fink  said the deadlock will be resolved
soon, limiting damage to the economy.  Moody’s cut Petrobras yesterday to Baa1, the third-lowest
investment grade rating, citing total debt that rose by $16.3
billion in the first half of the year to 3.8 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or
Ebitda.  Cash flow  for the producer will remain negative into
2015, according to the e-mailed report yesterday, which
maintained a negative outlook.  Brazil’s main equity index entered a bull market Sept. 9
after rising 20 percent from this year’s low on July 3 through
that day. The gauge is still down 20 percent in dollar terms
this year, compared with a decline of 4.6 percent for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  