-- Carl Icahn Withdraws His Appraisal Request for Dell Stake
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-10-04T20:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/icahn-says-he-withdrew-request-for-appraisal-on-dell.html
Carl Icahn  walked away from his
effort to win a higher price for an 8.9 percent stake in  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  less than a month after stating that the $24.9 billion
buyout “greatly undervalues” the computer maker.  In a post today on Twitter, Icahn said he was dropping his
demand for an independent court appraisal of his 156.5 million
Dell shares. Under the law in  Delaware , where Dell is
incorporated, stockholders can ask the state chancery court for
an independent valuation of fair value in a takeover.  The billionaire, in a Sept. 9 letter to other Dell
 shareholders , vowed to pursue appraisal rights even as he
conceded defeat after a months-long effort to spur a higher bid
or win control of the Round Rock, Texas, company. Today’s
reversal shows how Icahn’s shareholder activism is often
designed to generate short-term gains, said Gary Lutin, a former
investment banker who is setting up a trust for investors who
seek Dell appraisal rights.  “This is what Icahn has always been good at,” said Lutin,
who runs the Shareholder Forum, the New York-based sponsor of
the Dell Valuation Trust. “Yelling and shaking and grabbing
what he can.”  Icahn, who didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment,
said in the September letter that his efforts had forced  Michael Dell  and partner Silver Lake Management LLC to boost their bid
to $13.75 a share, plus a 13 cent dividend, from the $13.65 a
share they originally offered in February. Abandoning the
appraisal demand clears the way for Icahn to collect the $2.2
billion he is entitled to receive under the buyout’s revised
terms.  ‘Better Uses’  “I withdrew my demand for appraisal of my Dell shares,”
Icahn said in his Twitter post. “Based on our returns on
capital, we believe we have better uses for $2 billion.”  To pursue a claim under Delaware law, an investor needs to
file an appraisal demand with the target before the shareholder
vote, then oppose the deal or refrain from casting a ballot.
Once the deal closes, investors who have filed demands have 60
days to change their minds and accept the price being paid in
the buyout. Dell shareholders approved the buyout on Sept. 12,
and the company has said it expects to complete the transaction
by Oct. 31.  Other Investors  Dell received appraisal requests for 225 million shares,
including Icahn’s, said a person familiar with the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the information hasn’t been
made public. That suggests that  investors  holding an additional
68.5 million Dell shares passed up the $942 million they would
have received through the buyout to pursue a court valuation for
their stock holdings.  The investors must file a petition with the Delaware
Chancery Court seeking an appraisal within 120 days after the
deal becomes final. Absent a settlement, they would receive
whatever the court decides Dell shares were worth when the
buyout was completed, plus interest of almost 6 percent.  Dell filed a Form 8-K with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission today saying that Icahn notified the company
yesterday that his affiliates withdrew their appraisal demands.  “We are going to proceed accordingly with the rest of the
process, including closing” the buyout later this month “and
then with whatever litigation occurs down the road,”  David Frink , a Dell spokesman, said today in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  