-- Icahn’s Apple Buyback Seen Failing in Bonds: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-10-04T16:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/icahn-s-apple-buyback-seen-failing-in-bonds-corporate-finance.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  bondholders are signaling
investor  Carl Icahn ’s appeal for an additional $150 billion in
share buybacks is little more than wishful thinking.  While Icahn, who supports funding the transaction with
debt, said Oct. 1 that he “pushed hard” for the repurchases
during a dinner with Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook , the extra
yield creditors demand to own Apple notes instead of Treasuries
declined. That shows investors doubt the proposal will be
adopted with the iPhone maker already returning $100 billion to
 shareholders  in a program that included $16 billion of buybacks
last quarter, according to Frost Investment Advisors LLC.  “It’s more of a fantasy,” said Nikhill Patel, an analyst
at San Antonio-based Frost, which oversees more than $9 billion
and owned Apple bonds at the end of August. “I don’t think he’s
going to rock the boat with Apple.”  The performance of Apple bonds reveals how the Cupertino,
California-based company’s $436 billion market  value  makes it
more difficult to agitate for stockholder-friendly changes than
at smaller companies such as  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , whose relative
yields surged with Icahn, who disclosed a “large position” in
Apple in August, seeking a payout from the rig operator. An
additional $150 billion of debt would swell Apple’s leverage 10-fold to more than the average level among the world’s largest
technology companies.  Icahn’s Apartment  The dinner with Cook took place Sept. 30 at Icahn’s
apartment in  New York , when Apple’s $14 billion of fixed-coupon
obligations paid about 75 basis points more than  government
securities , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The next
day, the world’s 37th-richest person said via Twitter that
dialogue would continue in about three weeks, and Apple’s
average spread ended yesterday at 72 basis points.  Patel estimated spreads would widen by as much as 20 basis
points if there was sufficient risk of the extra repurchases
taking place.  Relative yields on the $176 billion of investment-grade
technology bonds tracked by Bloomberg widened 1.1 basis points
to 124.5 in the same period.  “The reaction has been muted,” said  David Brown , a  money
manager  who helps oversee about $93 billion of fixed-income
assets, including Apple bonds, at Neuberger Berman in  Chicago .
“As of right now, the  bond market  is pricing a low probability
of a massive share repurchase in the short term.”  Transocean Spreads  Icahn, 77, didn’t respond to a request for comment e-mailed
to  Susan Gordon , his spokeswoman. Steve Dowling, a spokesman for
Apple, declined to comment on the company’s buyback plans.  Transocean said Jan. 13 that Icahn and his affiliates were
seeking to expand a 1.56 percent stake to more than 3 percent,
and within a week average relative yields jumped more than 20
basis points to 202, Bloomberg data show. Spreads widened to 242
in March as the Vernier, Switzerland-based company reinstated
 dividend payments ; a higher payout supported by Icahn was later
rejected in May.  His Apple stake, estimated at more than $1 billion in
August by a person familiar with the investment, is the newest
foray into the technology sector after he built a position in
Dell Inc. that failed to derail a leveraged-buyout by its
founder. It’s also a challenge for Cook, who earlier this year
increased dividends and buybacks amid investor concern that the
company’s growth would slow and calls from hedge-fund manager
 David Einhorn  to return more cash to shareholders.  Revenue of  $169.4 billion  in the four quarters ended June
29 increased 14 percent from a year earlier, the slowest pace
since at least 2004, Bloomberg data show.  Free Cash  While Apple, whose $43.2 billion of  free cash flow  in the
latest 12 months exceeds the individual market values of 80
percent of the companies in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index, has
the capacity to boost the $100 billion it already plans to
return to shareholders by 2015 without impairing its credit, the
increase proffered by Icahn is unlikely, according to Mark Anderson of Thrivent Financial for Lutherans.  Free cash is money available to be reinvested in the
company, reward shareholders with dividends and buybacks, or
repay debt.  “The amount he’s looking for is a little unrealistic,”
said Anderson, whose Minneapolis-based firm oversees more than
$80 billion including Apple bonds.  Stock Gain  Since borrowing a then-record $17 billion in April to help
fund the payout, Apple’s stock  has returned  8.5 percent,
outperforming the 5.5 percent gain delivered by the  S&P 500
index . The company had repurchased $18 billion of shares out of
an authorized $60 billion as of June 29, when it had $146.6
billion of cash and marketable securities, according to a July
24 regulatory filing.  The six-part bond offering on April 30 left the iPad maker
with a debt burden that accounts for only 30 percent of its $56
billion of trailing 12-month earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization. That’s less than every indebted
technology company with market values of at least $10 billion
except Samsung Electronics Co., Bloomberg data show.  Icahn wants Apple to borrow $150 billion at a 3 percent
interest rate to finance the buybacks, according to a person
familiar with Icahn’s thinking who asked not to be identified
because the plans are private.  The additional borrowing would probably propel Apple’s
leverage beyond amounts at Microsoft Corp., International
Business Machines Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co., the struggling
personal-computer maker with credit ratings six levels below
those at Apple.  “The Icahn proposal would result in a meaningful credit
deterioration,”  Neuberger Berman ’s Brown said. “And I suspect
Apple’s not interested in changing their credit profile.”  ‘Just Flash’  Its $5.5 billion of 2.4 percent notes due in 2023, which
are ranked Aa1 at Moody’s Investors Service and an equivalent
AA+ at S&P, traded at 90.7 cents yesterday to yield 3.56
percent, or 95.3 basis points more than Treasuries, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The spread is up from 85.1 basis points on
Aug. 12, the day before Icahn announced his stake.  “He hasn’t, at this point, really caused a big stir,”
said Lon Erickson, a  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based money manager at
Thornburg Investment Management Inc., which oversees $86 billion
and doesn’t own Apple bonds. “When you throw out such big
numbers like that, people almost immediately discount it as just
flash and a lot of noise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  