-- Microsoft Said to Ask HTC for Windows on Android Phones
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n ,   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-10-04T05:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/microsoft-said-to-ask-htc-to-put-windows-on-more-phones.html
Microsoft Corp. is talking to  HTC
Corp. (2498)  about adding its  Windows operating system  to HTC’s
Android-based smartphones at little or no cost, people with
knowledge of the matter said, evidence of the software maker’s
struggle to gain ground in the mobile market.  Terry Myerson, head of Microsoft’s operating systems unit,
asked HTC last month to load Windows Phone as a second option on
handsets with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s rival software, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.
Myerson discussed cutting or eliminating the license fee to make
the idea more attractive, the people said. The talks are
preliminary and no decision has been made, two people said.  Its willingness to add Windows as a second operating
system underscores the lengths to which Microsoft will go to get
manufacturers to carry its software. HTC, the first company to
make both Windows and Android phones, hasn’t unveiled a new
Windows-based handset since June and has no current plans to
release any more, said one person. Microsoft, with 3.7 percent
of the market, is finding it necessary to make concessions after
agreeing to acquire  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s handset unit, which competes
with other smartphone makers.  Myerson was planning to visit  Asia  this month and meet with
senior executives at Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC to discuss his
proposal, one of the people said.  Pushing Windows  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft is trying to line up
other new partners. Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  and
other executives met with handset makers last week during a trip
to Beijing, said a person with knowledge of their trip. They
stressed that Microsoft wants to keep working with partners
other than Nokia, and expects to be able to sign accords with
some phone makers who previously have focused on Android, the
person said.  The technical details have yet to be ironed out. It wasn’t
clear whether an HTC phone would run Windows and Android at the
same time, or let users choose a default.  Tony Imperati, a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to
comment. HTC didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Microsoft’s $7.2 billion takeover of Nokia’s handset
business is part of an effort to ensure the availability of
phones with its software and help boost demand for the devices.  Microsoft charges handset makers a license fee for every
Windows Phone sold, and also has agreements in place to collect
royalties for devices that use Android as part of patent
settlements. By contrast, makers of Android devices don’t pay
Google, and instead agree to preinstall the  Mountain View ,
California-based company’s services such as search and maps on
Android-based phones.  Market Share  Windows held a 3.7 percent share of the smartphone
operating system market in the second quarter, according to
research-firm IDC. Android dominated with 79 percent, while
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS was No. 2 with a 13 percent share.  HTC, once the top-selling smartphone maker in the U.S., has
posted declining global sales and market share as product and
marketing missteps led to gains by Samsung Electronics Co., LG
Electronics Inc. and  ZTE Corp. (763)   HTC reported today a third-quarter net loss of NT$2.97
billion ($101 million) in the three months ended September, the
company’s first loss on a consolidated basis since at least
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. HTC’s flagship
One handset has failed to arrest a slide in sales amid product
delays and changes to strategy.  Samsung was the top Android phone seller in the second
quarter, while HTC was No. 8, according to IDC. In Windows
Phones, HTC lagged behind Nokia and Samsung.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in  Seattle  at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows  in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net ; 