-- Microsoft, SmartMetric, USPTO, Amazon: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-04T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/microsoft-smartmetric-uspto-amazon-com-intellectual-property.html
Microsoft Corp. won’t be able to seek
another import ban against some handsets made by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Motorola Mobility, though it can get damages under a ruling
issued by a U.S. appeals court yesterday.  A U.S. trade agency was wrong to say some of Motorola
Mobility’s products didn’t infringe one Microsoft patent, while
there was no violation of three others, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  said in an opinion
posted on its website yesterday. The remaining patent expires in
December, so there won’t be enough time for a trade agency to
block the devices from being imported into the U.S.  The ruling does give Microsoft ammunition to seek cash
damages from Motorola Mobility in a U.S. district court. Both
sides declared victory, with Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft
saying it bolsters its efforts to get royalties from devices
running on Google’s Android, the world’s most popular operating
system. Motorola Mobility is one of the biggest holdouts of a
program started three years ago, Microsoft has said.  “We’re pleased the court determined Google unfairly uses
Microsoft technology and once again call on Google to join the
rest of the Android ecosystem in licensing our patents,”
Microsoft Deputy General Counsel David Howard said.  Motorola Mobility, which was bought by Mountain View,
California-based Google after the case was filed in 2010,
focused on the findings regarding the other three patents and
the court finding that Motorola Mobility designed around the one
that was infringed.  The favorable opinion “confirms our position that our
products don’t infringe the Microsoft patents,” said Matt
Kallman, a Motorola Mobility spokesman.  The court didn’t rule on Google’s appeal of a separate
patent in the dispute before the U.S. International Trade
Commission. In that case, the ITC issued an import ban against
some Motorola Mobility phones. Microsoft has sued U.S. Customs
and Border Protection, claiming it hasn’t enforced the order.  The case that was ruled on is  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  v. ITC,
12-1445, while the pending case is Motorola Mobility LLC v. ITC,
12-1535, both U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Mobile
Devices, Associated Software and Components Thereof, 337-744,
U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  SmartMetric Loses Patent Ruling in Visa, MasterCard Case  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  don’t infringe a patent owned
by SmartMetric Inc., a company that had sought as much as $13.4
billion for alleged use of its technology in “smart” debit and
credit cards.  U.S. District Judge Michael W. Fitzgerald in Los Angeles,
affirmed his earlier tentative decision from a Sept. 25 hearing.  “The parties here are comparing apples and oranges,” the
judge said in an Oct. 2 written ruling. “The piecemeal
similarities that SmartMetric has identified in support of its
claims do not change the fact that claims 1 and 14 of the ‘464
patent are simply not practiced by defendants, and no reasonable
jury could conclude otherwise.’’  SmartMetric sued Visa and MasterCard two years ago,
claiming they infringed its patent for a system for automatic
connection to a network. The company claimed it was entitled to
a royalty of 25 percent of the anticipated savings Visa and
MasterCard would receive from a drop in credit and debit-card
fraud by the introduction of so-called EMV cards in the U.S.  The EMV cards, which are already used in Europe, include a
microchip instead of a magnetic strip to access a payment
system. The SmartMetric patent pertains to the process by which
the payment system selects a network for a card transaction,
Patrick Bright, the company’s lawyer, said at the Sept. 25
hearing.  SmartMetric said in a statement yesterday it will appeal
the non-infringement ruling.  The case is  SmartMetric Inc. (SMME)  v. MasterCard International
Inc., 11-cv-07126, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  Government Shutdown Forces Cancellation of Inventors’ Meeting  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office canceled its 18th
annual  Independent Inventors Conference  set for Oct. 11-12 in
Alexandria, Virginia.  According to a  notice  on the patent office website, the
office will stay open notwithstanding the government shutdown
that began Oct. 1.  The patent office said that it had to make ‘‘difficult
decisions to ensure core patent and trademark operations are
maintained for as long as possible.”  The office, which operates on user fees, said it is should
be able to stay open for about four weeks using previous year’s
fee reserves.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Amazon Seeks ‘Firetube’ U.S. Trademarks for Variety of Uses  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest e-commerce company,
applied to register the term “Firetube” as a trademark,
according to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  The application, filed Sept. 25, indicates that the
Seattle-based company plans to use the mark for a wide range of
services, including online social-networking, a mobile software
application, and the dissemination of advertising via the
Internet and other communications networks.  Other uses for the mark, Amazon says, are the provision of
non-downloadable pre-recorded content via wireless networks,
communication through portable electronic devices, electronic
mail services and graphic design services.  Kentucky Restaurant Successful in Defense of ‘Derby Pie’ Mark  Kern’s Kitchen Inc. , a Kentucky restaurant that’s been in
business for more than 50 years, won a trademark battle against
a restaurant that was started by the founder of the  Kentucky 
Fried Chicken chain.  The dispute was over a pie that is associated with the
Kentucky Derby horse race. According to the database of the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office, Louisville, Kentucky-based Kern’s
Kitchen began using the name “Derby Pie” in 1964, and
registered it as a U.S. trademark in October 1969.  The company said on its website that the pie, which has
chocolate chips and walnuts among its ingredients, is a secret
recipe and “no one has ever been able to duplicate our special
filling and delicate crust.”  That hasn’t stopped many people from trying. A Google
search for the terms “Derby Pie” and “Recipe” yields more
than  48,000 hits . Kern’s Kitchen has successfully filed other
trademark suits related to the pie’s name.  Kern’s Kitchen objected to the use of the term “derby
pie” to describe a dessert served at  Claudia Sanders Dinner
Houses Inc. , of Shelbyville, Kentucky, and filed an infringement
suit in federal court in March.  According to the Dinner Houses website, the restaurant was
founded in 1968 by Harland Sanders, and originally known as
“The Colonel’s Lady.” Sanders sold his Kentucky Fried Chicken
company to a group of investors in 1964, and the chain is now a
unit of  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  He and his wife Claudia, inspired by
their “knowledge of Southern Recipes and their natural leaning
toward the restaurant,” then opened The Colonel’s Lady.  Sanders died in 1980 at the age of 94, and his widow died
in 1996, at the same age.  In its complaint, Kern’s Kitchen said that it renewed its
trademark in 2009 and didn’t authorize the mark’s use by the
defendant. It asked the court for an order barring further
infringement and damages of $335,000 together with awards of
attorney fees and litigation costs.  On Oct. 1 a federal court in Frankfort, Kentucky, issued an
order permanently barring Dinner Houses’ use of “Derby Pie,”
and dismissing all other claims. The court said each party must
pay its own attorney fees and litigation costs.  Dinner Houses’  menu  lists a dessert containing chocolate
chips and pecans that is now named “Claudia’s Kentucky Pie.”  The case is Kern’s Kitchen Inc. v. Claudia Sanders Dinner
Houses Inc., 3:13-cv-00013-GFVT, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Kentucky (Frankfort).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Pennsylvania Theater Sued Again by Broadway Copyright Holders  Entertainment Theatre Group, which does business as
 American Music Theatre , was sued for the second time in two
weeks for infringing copyrights of Broadway musicals.  The first suit was filed in Allentown,  Pennsylvania , Sept.
25 by the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , which objected to the allegedly
unlicensed use of content from its “Mary Poppins,” “The Lion
King” and “Spider-Man” in American Music Theater’s
“Broadway: Now and Forever.”  The second suit was filed by the  Rodgers & Hammerstein
Organization , Andrew Lloyd Weber’s  Really Useful Group Ltd. , and
the  Music Theatre International  licensing agency.  The content that is allegedly used without permission is
drawn from “The Producers,” “West Side Story,” “Jesus
Christ Superstar,” “Annie,” “Cats,” “Joseph and the
Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat,” “Music of the Night,”
“Evita,” “Phantom of the Opera,” and “Les Miserables,”
according to the complaint.  The music organizations asked the court to bar the
unauthorized use of their content and for awards of money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  American Music Theatre didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  The new case is The Rogers and Hammerstein Organization v.
Brubaker, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Allentown).  The earlier case is Disney Enterprises Inc. v.
Entertainment Theatre Group, 13-cv-05570, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Allentown).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Canada Defense Department Move May Be Security Risk  Canada ’s Department of National Defense is taking a second
look at plans to move into facilities previously occupied by the
now-defunct Nortel Networks Corp. after listening devices were
discovered there, the Ottawa Citizen reported.  The Internet and communications provider was the target of
industrial espionage beginning in 2000 and security analysts say
bugs and other devices from the Nortel era may still be found at
the site, according to the newspaper.  The Department of National Defense hasn’t revealed whether
the bugs found were new or dated from Nortel’s occupancy, the
newspaper reported.  Canada’s federal government, which has dedicated almost
$1 billion Canadian ($968 million) to the purchase and the
renovation of the site, has said it may consider having other
departments move there rather than the defense department,
according to the Citizen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 