-- IMF Urges Romania to Shun Pre-Vote Populism After EU Budget Feat
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-10-04T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/imf-urges-romania-to-shun-pre-vote-populism-after-eu-budget-feat.html
Romania ’s government, which freed
itself from European Union budget shackles in June, must
maintain fiscal rigor before a presidential election next year,
the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “With Romania having exited the excessive-deficit
procedure, pressures for populist measures are on the rise that
would unwind earlier difficult reforms or create new risks,”
the fund said today in a report on its website. “These
pressures need to be resisted.”  Renewed political uncertainty in the run-up to the 2014
ballot “could weigh on investor and consumer sentiment,”
according to the Washington-based lender, which approved a third
loan for the eastern European country last month.  Romania, the second-poorest EU member, has brought its
budget gap within the 28-nation bloc’s limit of 3 percent of
economic output through tax increases and public-wage cuts. A
power struggle between President Traian Basescu and Prime
Minister Victor Ponta before general elections last year pushed
the leu to record lows and prompted a surge in borrowing costs.  The leu is this year’s best performer against the euro
among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg with a
0.5 percent gain. Yields on  government bonds  due 2020 rose five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.349 percent at 3:09
p.m. in Bucharest after falling yesterday to the lowest since
the debt was sold on Sept. 12.  Fiscal Goals  This year’s budget shortfall is planned at 2.3 percent of
gross domestic product, down from 7.2 percent in 2009. To narrow
the gap to about 2 percent in 2014, Romania intends to revamp
the health-care, transport and energy industries and sell state-owned stakes in companies.  The government plans to sell 15 percent of natural gas
producer Romgaz by mid-November and stakes in hydropower
generator Hidroelectrica SA and energy company Oltenia SA by
June. A majority stake in power distributor Electrica SA will be
sold by May, the IMF said.  “Moving the structural reform agenda forward will be the
most challenging part, given strong vested interests,”
according to the lender.  Romania must repay about 4.4 billion euros ($6 billion) to
the IMF in 2014 under a 20 billion-euro bailout from 2009. It
hasn’t drawn funds from a 5 billion-euro accord that ended this
year. The latest 4 billion-euro package from the IMF and the EU
will guard against potential financial-market spillover as
central banks around the world consider paring stimulus.  Political Battle  As next year’s election draws nearer, Basescu and Ponta are
once again at odds, this time over over a delayed gold-mine
project that’s majority owned by  Canada ’s  Gabriel Resources Ltd (GBU) 
and has triggered street protests by environmental activists.  Ponta has approved a bill allowing development of the mine
and sent it to parliament for a final decision. Basescu has
called him “a coward,” saying the government should decide.
Crin Antonescu, who heads the  Liberal Party  that’s part of
Ponta’s coalition, opposes the project because of the use of
cyanide for extracting the precious metal.  “After a relatively calm period, political tension appears
to be growing again,” the IMF said. “As the structural reform
measures deepen, vested interests will test the authorities’
resolve. Active engagement in program implementation will likely
be required at the highest levels to manage these pressures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  