-- Thin-Film Solar Tops India Panel Performance, BNEF Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-04T07:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/thin-film-solar-tops-india-panel-performance-bnef-says.html
Indian solar plants using silicon-free panels, mostly supplied by  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , emerged as the
best performers in the first year of operation, Bloomberg New
Energy Finance said.  An analysis of 33 projects in Gujarat,  India ’s biggest
state for solar installations, found that those using thin-film
panels without silicon achieved an average capacity utilization
factor of 19.6 percent, compared with 18.5 percent for competing
technologies, the London-based researcher said in a note to
clients.  “This is consistent with thin-film performing better at
high temperatures,” said Bharat Bhushan Agrawal, BNEF’s New
Delhi-based solar analyst. Projects that bought equipment from
Tempe, Arizona-based First Solar also probably benefited from
better advice from U.S. engineers on design and siting, he said.  Developers and their lenders are seeking data on how
technologies fare in new markets, where higher temperatures and
dust can reduce panel performance, as growth shifts from  Europe ,
home to 68 percent of global solar installations.  The data shows that worries about inexperienced engineers,
poorly designed plants and India’s hot and humid climate were
unfounded, BNEF said. Overall, the Gujarat plants recorded an
average capacity utilization factor of 18.7 percent, in line
with initial estimates by regulators and project developers,
Bhushan said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  Capacity utilization factor measures how efficiently a
plant produces energy, compared with its maximum capacity.
Traditional crystalline modules are silicon-based, while First
Solar makes thin-film panels with cadmium telluride, a
substitute for silicon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  