-- Tin Rallies to Six-Month High on Indonesian Supply Concerns
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-10-04T16:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/tin-rallies-to-six-month-high-on-indonesian-supply-concerns.html
Tin rallied to a six-month high in
 London , heading for a third weekly advance, on speculation
supplies will be limited from Indonesia, the largest producer.  Other industrial metals including copper and nickel gained
today as optimism grew that U.S lawmakers would reach a deal to
end the budget impasse and avoid a default on the federal debt.
Indonesia, accounting for 40 percent of global supply,
introduced a rule Aug. 30 that refined tin must be traded on a
local exchange before it can be shipped.  Tin demand will beat supply by 3,000 metric tons this year
and 2,000 tons in 2014, Barclays Plc estimates. The metal, used
in smartphones and packaging, climbed since the Indonesian rule
took effect and smelters curbed exports, with only one exchange
authorized to trade in Jakarta. The policy changes and lower
shipments may create a bottleneck for the global market,
Commerzbank AG estimates.  “The fundamentals are tight with the shipments from
 Indonesia  being restricted,” William Adams, an analyst at
Fastmarkets.com in London, said today by phone. “That’s
probably going to play out for a bit longer.  Tin for  delivery  in three months gained as much as 5.5
percent to $24,000 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange,
the highest since March 15. It traded at $23,800 by 5:18 p.m.
London time, set for a 1.9 percent weekly gain.  At present, only the Indonesia Commodity and Derivatives
Exchange in Jakarta, or ICDX, is allowed to trade tin ingots
before export from Southeast Asia’s largest economy. The
regulatory agency, known as Coftra, has studied a proposal from
the Jakarta Futures Exchange to also trade the metal, Sutriono
Edi, head of the Commodity Futures Trading Regulatory Agency,
said.  The first partial government shutdown in 17 years began on
Oct. 1, placing as many as 800,000 federal employees on unpaid
leave and closing some services. House Speaker John Boehner
reiterated today that he won’t allow the U.S. to default on its
debt, even if that requires Democratic votes as House
Republicans met in  Washington  to find a solution to the budget
impasse.  Copper gained as much as 1.4 percent on the LME today and
nickel rose as much as 3.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  