-- India’s Nifty Index Futures Decline Amid U.S. Shutdown Concerns
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-10-04T02:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/india-s-nifty-index-futures-decline-amid-u-s-shutdown-concerns.html
Indian stock-index futures dropped
after the benchmark index gained the most in two weeks yesterday
and U.S. lawmakers wrangled over a government shutdown in the
world’s largest economy.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for October delivery fell 0.4
percent to 5,924 at 10:16 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index soared 2.2 percent to 5,909.70 yesterday. The S&P
BSE Sensex jumped 2 percent, while its 50-day  volatility 
measure, a gauge of price swings, increased to the highest level
since October 2011. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index
of U.S.-traded shares rose 2 percent.  The  U.S. Treasury  warned yesterday that failure to raise
the $16.7 trillion debt limit before the administration’s
borrowing authority expires on Oct. 17 may result in a recession
as bad or worse than the 2008 financial crisis. The partial
closing of the U.S. government for one week would shave 0.1
percentage point from economic growth, according to the median
of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “We expect the market to respond to developments related
to the U.S. budget deadline and debt ceiling, and there could be
volatility around these events,” Dipen Shah, head of private
client group research at Kotak Securities Ltd., wrote in an e-mail yesterday.  Shares of state-run lenders, including  State Bank of India ,
may be active after the  Indian (SENSEX)  government decided to increase
capital infusions to boost lending to selected segments like
autos and consumer durables.  Foreign Flows  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the nation’s largest publicly
traded carrier, may move after Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways
got backing from the Indian government to invest in the company.
The approval paves the way for the first share sale by an Indian
airline to a foreign carrier since investment restrictions were
eased last year.  International investors sold a net $13.8 million of local
stocks on Oct. 1, data from the market regulator showed
yesterday. That pared this year’s inflow to $13.4 billion, the
second-highest among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Overseas funds bought a net $2 billion of local shares in
September, the first monthly net inflows since May, after new
 Reserve Bank  of India Governor Raghuram Rajan announced plans to
boost the financial industry and support the rupee, and the U.S.
Federal Reserve decided to keep stimulus.  The Sensex has risen 2.5 percent this year and is  valued  at
13.7 times estimated 12-month profits, compared with the five-year average of 14.1 times. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index is
trading at 10.5 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  