-- Indonesia Challenges LME in Bid to Set Global Tin Benchmark
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-10-04T10:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/indonesia-challenges-lme-in-bid-to-set-global-tin-benchmark-2-.html
Indonesia , the world’s largest tin
exporter, wants to displace the  London  Metal Exchange as the
venue for setting the global benchmark by requiring that the
metal be traded on a local exchange before export. Prices rose.  “The purpose of trading physical tin through the bourse
for export is to make Indonesia the place for international tin-price discovery, not to refer to the LME anymore,” Sutriono Edi, head of the Commodity Futures Trading Regulatory Agency,
said by e-mail in response to Bloomberg questions. The
government was studying other commodities to which the local-trade policy may be applied, he said, listing coffee, cocoa,
rubber and coal.  Tin, used in smartphones and packaging, rallied to a six-month high in London in September after the rule took effect and
smelters curbed exports, with only one exchange in Jakarta
authorized to trade the ingots. The policy changes and  lower
shipments  may create a bottleneck for the global market,
spurring higher prices, said Commerzbank AG. A decision allowing
a second exchange to trade tin may come today, Edi said.  “Indonesia is not the only producer in the world,”  Simon Collins , director and head of dry-bulk commodities at Trafigura
Beheer BV, said from Geneva yesterday. “Until all the rules and
regulations are fully clarified, and both the consumers and
investors would be fully satisfied with the security around the
exchange, I couldn’t see that happening,” Collins said when
asked if Indonesian trading would draw volumes from the LME.  Miriam Heywood, a spokeswoman for the LME, declined to
comment today on Indonesia’s plans.  Global Deficit  Tin for delivery in three months outperformed the five
other main base metals including copper and nickel on the LME
over the past year as the Indonesian curbs worsened a global
deficit. The metal -- which rallied to $23,500 on Sept. 30, the
highest since March 19 -- rose 0.7 percent to $22,900 at 6:09
p.m. in  Singapore , snapping a four-day losing run.  The rule change represents a challenge to the LME, the
oldest and largest base-metals marketplace which was bought for
$2.2 billion last year by  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) 
The origins of the LME’s three-month contract system are linked
to the time copper and tin cargoes used to take to reach London
from Chile and Malaya in the 19th century, according to its
website. Indonesia, which accounts for 40 percent of global tin
shipments, started trade under the new rule from Aug. 30.  “The solution is to have physical tin trading through the
bourse, so that the tin-export price can be increased and
Indonesia can be the world’s tin-price reference,” Edi wrote in
the e-mail. Higher prices show the policy is working, he said.  Tin Ingots  At present, only the Indonesia Commodity and Derivatives
Exchange in Jakarta, or ICDX, is allowed to trade tin ingots
before export from  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy. The
regulatory agency, known as Coftra, has studied a proposal from
the Jakarta Futures Exchange to also trade the metal, Edi said.  “We have submitted all the terms and documents,” M. Bihar
Sakti Wibowo, a director at the JFX, said in an interview in
Palembang, Sumatra on Oct. 2. “Exports will continue to be
limited if only the ICDX trades tin. We’re trying to help
increase shipments. There are 18 smelters ready to trade on the
JFX and the volume from them is substantial.”  Tin futures and options traded on the LME last month gained
21 percent from a year earlier to 195,084 contracts, or 975,420
tons, according to bourse data. The ICDX traded 1,040 tons from
Aug. 30 to Oct. 2, exchange figures tracked by Bloomberg show.  Lower Exports  PT Timah, which declared force majeure after the rule
change and wants to sell through the ICDX, estimated that
Indonesia’s exports dropped to 3,000 tons last month, according
to President Director Sukrisno. That would be the lowest since
November 2011, according to data tracked by Bloomberg.  The new policy is designed to establish a domestically
determined benchmark price, Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  said on
Sept. 23. While the rule applies to refined tin ingots at
present, it will be extended to cover other products such as
solder from 2015.  Stockpiles in LME-registered warehouses contracted 13
percent in September, the biggest monthly decline since January
2012. The LME-tracked reserves dropped 25 tons to 13,170 tons
yesterday, the lowest level since January.  The “trading regulation is causing a serious bottleneck,”
said Peter Kettle, research manager at  St. Albans , England-based
ITRI Ltd., which is mostly funded by producers and smelters.
“The rise in world prices does not offset the big fall in
volumes, so there is less cash coming into the economy.”  The global deficit is forecast to more than double from
6,000 tons this year to 13,000 tons in 2015, according to
Standard Bank Group Ltd. Citigroup Inc. last month raised its
2014 forecast 9.1 percent to $22,375 a ton.  Indonesia’s rule changes are aimed at tightening trade
flows and raising prices, Credit Suisse Group AG said in a
report yesterday. Many buyers have yet to register with local
exchanges, and  PT Timah (TINS)  had little choice in declaring force
majeure, Credit Suisse said.  -- With assistance from Maria Kolesnikova in London. Editors:
Jake Lloyd-Smith, Thomas Kutty Abraham  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmasna@bloomberg.net 
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  