-- Investors See Rates, Regulations as Biggest Risks, Allianz Says
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-10-04T14:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/investors-see-rates-regulations-as-biggest-risks-allianz-says.html
Institutional investors see rising
 interest rates  as the biggest risk to the performance of their
funds over the next three years,  Allianz Global Investors  said,
citing a survey.  “Like the investors surveyed, we expect monetary policy to
be accommodative for quite some time, but respondents are
understandably already preparing for a world where interest
rates rise from their historic lows,” Chief Executive Elizabeth Corley said at a press briefing today in  London . “Bond holders
are concerned about capital losses when rates start to rise.”  Investors also judged prices of developed-market
 government bonds  and high-yield corporate debt as being the most
inflated among asset classes due to record-low borrowing costs
that has created distortions, according to the survey, which was
based on responses from 390 investors in 41 countries.  “Institutional investors are recognizing the long-term
risk of short-term safety,” Corley said. “It’s important that
investors take a smart risk. Sovereign debt has morphed from a
source of safe return into a source of risk.”  The survey also showed that investors see regulation as
holding back annual  investment performance  by an average of 2.3
percentage points.  While investors acknowledged the need for and benefits of
“fact-based” regulation, 73 percent of the respondents said
regulations came with a price and more than half said they
expected the policy climate to worsen over the next three years,
according to the survey.  Allianz Global Investors is a unit of Munich-based Allianz
SE, and manages the equivalent of $413 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  