-- J-Power, Partners Delay $4 Billion Indonesia Coal Power Plant
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e ,   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2013-10-04T06:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/j-power-partners-delay-4-billion-indonesia-coal-power-plant.html
Japan’s  Electric Power Development
Co. (9513) ,  Itochu Corp. (8001)  and Indonesia’s  PT Adaro Energy (ADRO)  further
delayed the schedule for securing financing for their $4 billion
coal-fired power plant in Indonesia.  The group pushed back the deadline by a year to October
2014 after it faced delays acquiring land, Junichiro Hoshino, a
Tokyo-based spokesman at Electric Power Development, or J-Power,
said in a phone interview today. They have acquired more than 80
percent of land needed for the 2,000-megawatt power plant in
Batang, Central Java, he said. Company officials at Itochu in
Tokyo and Adaro in Jakarta were unable to comment immediately
when contacted by phone today.  The companies last year postponed construction of the power
plant, which was originally scheduled to start in October 2012,
amid environmental assessments and local opposition. Further
delays will be a setback for  Indonesia ’s plans to get more of
its domestic power from lower-quality coal grades. The Batang
plant, which would be Indonesia’s biggest independent
electricity supplier, is part of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s strategy to increase exports of technology to improve the
efficiency of power from coal.  “Construction will experience a delay as it still needs
time to complete land acquisition,” Jarman, the director
general of electricity at the Energy and Mineral Resources
Ministry who goes by only one name, said in a message yesterday.  The companies agreed in October 2011 to build the plant,
fuel it with Indonesia’s lower-quality coal and supply
electricity for 25 years to PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara,
Indonesia’s state-owned power generator.  Electric Power Development and Adaro each own 34 percent of
the venture, known as PT Bhimasena Power Indonesia. Itochu, a
Japanese trading company, has the remaining 32 percent stake.  The first 1,000-megawatt unit at the plant was originally
scheduled to start commercial operation in late 2016, followed
by the second unit in mid 2017, the three companies said in a
 joint statement  in October 2011. It would be the first plant in
Indonesia to use “advanced environmentally friendly, ultra-supercritical technology,” they said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emi Urabe in  Tokyo  at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  