-- Jordan Says Health Law Must Be Part of Any Budget Deal
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-10-05T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/jordan-says-health-law-must-be-part-of-any-budget-deal.html
Representative  Jim Jordan , a leading
member of the U.S. House’s conservative caucus, said changes to
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law must be part of any
budget deal to end the government shutdown.  “We have to get something on Obamacare,” the  Ohio
Republican  said on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital
with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  That stance, which Obama and congressional Democrats say is
a nonstarter, has stymied talks to produce a stopgap spending
measure that would restore government services. It also risks
undermining efforts to raise the $16.7 trillion federal debt
ceiling, which will reach its limit by Oct. 17.  “I don’t plan to support anything that doesn’t address the
underlying problem,” Jordan, 49, said of the Affordable Care
Act, which requires most Americans to have insurance or pay a
penalty while forcing insurers to cover pre-existing medical
conditions.  Obama and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  ruled
out such a tradeoff after an Oct. 2 meeting the president had
with congressional leaders of both parties at the White House.  “We are locked in tight on Obamacare,” Reid said after
the meeting.  Obama told reporters yesterday that he can’t negotiate a
budget “with a gun held to the head of the American people.”  Boehner’s Support  Representative  Peter King , a  New York  Republican who is
pushing for a compromise, has said Jordan’s faction of the party
must pledge not to try to oust House Speaker  John Boehner  if he
works with more moderate Republicans and Democrats to reach an
agreement that ends the shutdown.  Jordan repeatedly declined to make such a promise in the
interview, while saying Boehner is doing “a great job” and
there’s no effort under way to unseat him.  “Our conference is more unified than it’s ever been,”
Jordan said.  The Republican lawmaker, a former college wrestler and
coach who has served in Congress since 2007, said changing the
health law is also key to any plan to raise the debt limit.  “It has to be part of this idea of getting this $17
trillion debt under control,” he said.  The mandate for individuals to buy insurance should be
delayed because Obama already has postponed the requirement that
large businesses provide coverage to their workers, he said.  “All we’re asking the president to do is treat Americans
equal,” he said.  ‘Extremely Irresponsible’  Obama has said he is open to revising the health-care law,
though not in exchange for ending the partial government
shutdown forced by a budget impasse or raising the debt limit.  “If the White House keeps to that position, that is
extremely irresponsible,” Jordan said.  On the foreign policy front, asked if it is appropriate for
Obama to respond to  Iran ’s overtures to negotiate over the
future of that nation’s nuclear-enrichment plans, Jordan said,
“Well, you have to see what the deal is.”  “But I think this is very dangerous,” Jordan said. “It’s
very dangerous to start negotiating with a guy like Mr.
Rouhani,” he said of the Iranian president, Hassan Rouhani.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  