-- JPMorgan’s Dimon Said to Relinquish Chairman Title at Bank Unit
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-10-04T04:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/jpmorgan-s-dimon-said-to-relinquish-chairman-role-at-bank-unit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  stepped down as chairman of the lender’s
main bank subsidiary at the start of July, according to a person
briefed on the move.  Dimon, who serves as CEO and chairman of the parent
company, handed off his post at the unit to William C. Weldon, a
JPMorgan board member and former head of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , said
the person, who asked not to be named because details of the
move weren’t announced. A regulatory document released yesterday
listed Dimon as “chairman emeritus” of the subsidiary, which
runs JPMorgan’s deposit and consumer banking operations.  JPMorgan has sought to bolster corporate governance and
rebuild its relationship with watchdogs after probes by
regulators and a Senate panel faulted the firm for withholding
information from U.S. overseers during trading losses last year.
Dimon handed off the chairman title at the unit after company
attorneys recommended it for technical reasons, rather than
because of pressure from regulators or investors, said the
person, who’s familiar with the bank’s thinking.  Joe Evangelisti , a company spokesman, declined to comment.
Dimon’s status as chairman emeritus at the unit was disclosed in
JPMorgan’s annual “living will,” describing to regulators how
the New York-based firm could be wound down in an emergency.  Dimon, 57, won shareholder backing in a May vote to keep
his dual CEO and chairman titles at the parent company,
defeating a push by investor advisory firms to split the roles
in the wake of last year’s $6.2 billion trading loss. While the
board endorsed his leadership during that fight, it cut his pay
for 2012 in half after finding he had some responsibility for
lapses that led to the trading losses.  Camels Rating  Last month, the bank paid $920 million to settle U.S. and
U.K. probes of the botched bets at its chief investment office
in  London . The company admitted violating securities laws in a
settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The bank unit, JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, had a rating of its
management downgraded in July 2012 by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, according to a  March report  by the
Senate  Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations. The OCC cited
“lax governance and oversight in the chief investment office,”
according to the report.  Management effectiveness is one of six components in the
firm’s so-called Camels rating, a confidential measure the OCC
uses to monitor banks’ safety and soundness. The grading system,
using a 1-to-5 scale, also tracks capital, asset quality,
earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to market risk.  Internal Controls  The March Senate report didn’t specify JPMorgan’s rating at
the time. The management grade was lowered to 3 from 2, the Wall
Street Journal reported that month, citing unidentified people
familiar with the assessment. The newspaper reported on Dimon
giving up the unit chairmanship yesterday.  The OCC is the primary regulator of the national bank while
the  Federal Reserve  oversees the parent company.  JPMorgan increased spending on internal controls by about
$1 billion this year and dedicated more than $750 million “to
address several of our consent orders” with regulators, Dimon
wrote in a memo to employees last month. At least 5,000 people
at the company have been assigned to compliance, he said.  “We have re-prioritized our major projects and
initiatives, deployed massive new resources and refocused
critical managerial time on this effort,” he wrote at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  