-- Korea Won Pares Gain Amid Intervention Speculation; Bonds Steady
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-10-04T03:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/korea-won-pares-gain-amid-intervention-speculation-bonds-steady.html
South Korea ’s won pared gains on
speculation authorities intervened to limit an advance that
threatens exports.  Government bonds  were steady.  The currency climbed 0.2 percent to 1,071.9 per dollar as
of 11:45 a.m. in  Seoul  from Oct. 2, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The won rose as much as 0.4 percent to 1,069.68
earlier and strengthened 0.2 percent this week. Domestic
financial markets were closed yesterday for a public holiday.  “It is suspected that authorities have intervened in the
market to slow the pace of the gain as the won was heading
toward 1,070 versus the dollar,” said Han Sung Min, a currency
trader at Busan Bank in Seoul.  Jung Ho Seok, head of the foreign-exchange market team at
the  Bank of Korea , declined to comment on the matter when
contacted by telephone today. Overseas funds bought $221 million
more local equities than they sold on Oct. 2, the 26th day of
inflows, exchange data show. The won rallied 6.6 percent since
the end of June, the best performance among Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies. That has eroded the value of the nation’s
exports, which account for around half of gross domestic product.  “Foreign funds are buying won-denominated assets on bets
the strong won will hold for a while,” said Hong Seok Chan, a
currency analyst at Daishin Economy Research Institute in Seoul.
“Local traders are cautious near the 1,070 level as the
authorities have been giving warning signs on the possible
intervention.”  “Herd Behavior’  South  Korea  will move to check currency volatility,
including imposing a levy on banks’ foreign-currency debt and a
cap on lenders’ currency-forward positions, if “herd behavior”
causes drastic movements, the  Finance Ministry  said in June.  Foreign-exchange reserves rose to a record $336.9 billion
at end-September, the Bank of Korea said today. The increase was
due to the issuance of $1 billion of government dollar bonds
last month and gains from asset management, the central bank
said in a statement.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 14 basis points
to 7.13 percent. The gauge rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, this week.  The yield on the 2.75 percent sovereign notes due June 2016
was unchanged at 2.83 percent from Oct. 2, Korea Exchange Inc.
prices show. The rate fell one basis point this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  