-- Koruna Sales Snubbed Over Deflation Dispute, Minutes Show
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-10-04T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/koruna-sales-snubbed-over-deflation-dispute-minutes-show.html
The Czech central bank rejected a
proposal to start koruna sales last week because a majority of
policy makers didn’t see a “significant risk” of deflation,
minutes from the last monetary meeting showed.  While most members of the Ceska Narodni Banka’s board
agreed the probability of starting the currency interventions
remained high and was unchanged from the previous meeting, some
rate setters said weakening the exchange rate now would risk
damping private consumption and curbing economic growth.  The bank kept the benchmark interest rate at what it calls
a “technical zero” of 0.05 percent at the Sept. 26 meeting,
almost half a point below the European Central Bank’s benchmark.
The board is debating whether slowing inflation warrants the
first koruna sales since 2002 after three  rate cuts  last year
exhausted room for traditional monetary easing. The central bank
is weighing the strength of an economic rebound after the
country exited a 1 1/2-year recession.  “Some of the board members raised concerns about the
economy slipping into deflation, which the central bank should
be proactive in preventing,” the bank said in the minutes,
which don’t disclose views of individual board members,
published on its website today. “Against this, however, it was
said repeatedly that the observed build-up of anti-inflationary
risks was still not generating any major risk of a deflation-recession spiral.”  The currency, which has lost 1.8 percent against the euro
this year, has moved to the center of policy deliberations
because its depreciation would make imports more expensive and
boost the competitiveness of exports, curbing deflation risks.  The bank’s board agreed the economy was moving
“essentially in line with” the latest forecast, according to
the minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  