-- Natural Gas Futures Drop in Survey on Seasonal Demand Lull
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-10-04T11:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/natural-gas-futures-drop-in-survey-on-seasonal-demand-lull.html
Natural gas futures may drop next
week on lackluster demand during a seasonal lull before the peak
U.S. heating season, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Nine of 14 analysts, or 64 percent, predicted that futures
will fall on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through Oct. 11.
Four, or 29 percent, said gas will gain and one predicted prices
will stay the same. Last week, 55 percent of participants said
gas would decline.  Temperatures will be warmer than normal from the Northeast
through the Ohio Valley next week while the rest of the lower 48
states will see seasonal or cooler weather, according to
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . U.S. gas
 stockpile gains  exceeded the five-year averages over the past
two weeks as demand for the power-plant fuel slumped.  “It’s still going to be mild and we are expecting large
injections for the next two weeks,” said Aaron Calder, senior
market analyst at Gelber & Associates in Houston. “The market
is oversupplied.”  Natural gas futures dropped 9 cents, or 2.5 percent, to
$3.499 per million British thermal units during the first four
days of this week on the Nymex. The futures are up 4.4 percent
this year.  The high in  New York City  on Oct. 9 may be 71 degrees
Fahrenheit (22 Celsius), 5 above normal, after topping the 80s
this week, according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania . Power producers account for 32 percent of U.S. gas
demand, according to the Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm.  Stockpile Report  U.S. inventories rose 101 billion cubic feet to 3.487
trillion cubic feet in the week ended Sept. 27, the biggest gain
for any week since May 31, according to the EIA. Analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg predicted a gain of 95 billion.
The five-year average increase for the period was 82 billion.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  4      9      1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  