-- Netanyahu Says He’d Consider Meet With Iran’s Rouhani If Offered
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-10-04T10:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/netanyahu-says-he-d-consider-meet-with-iran-s-rouhani-if-offered.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he would consider meeting newly elected Iranian
President Hassan Rouhani if offered the opportunity.  “I don’t care about the meeting,” Netanyahu said in an
 interview  with U.S. broadcaster NPR that aired today. “I
haven’t been offered” an opening, he said. “If I’m offered,
I’ll consider it. But it’s not an issue.”  Netanyahu used his speech at the United Nations General
Assembly in New York on Oct. 1 to urge the world not to take
Rouhani at face value after the Iranian leader disavowed
interest in nuclear weapons and said Iran wants to swiftly calm
international concerns over its atomic program.  Rouhani and President  Barack Obama  had a 15-minute
telephone conversation last week, the highest-level encounter
between the two governments since Iran’s 1979 Islamic
revolution. Rouhani’s softer approach has kindled some optimism
among Western diplomats. International nuclear talks with Iran’s
government are set for Oct. 15-16 in Geneva.  “I would stick this question in their face,” Netanyahu
told NPR in the interview. “Are you prepared to dismantle your
program completely? Because you can’t stay with the
enrichment.”  Netanyahu said that the only reason Iranian officials
insist on a right to enrichment is because they want to remain
on the path toward developing nuclear weapons.  “I don’t think any one should take a leap of faith with a
regime that systematically defies Security Council resolutions,
has cheated twice, whose chief negotiator has said my strategy
is cheating,” Netanyahu said.  Referring to international economic sanctions against  Iran ,
the Israeli premier said, “we want to use the pressure to get a
real deal, not a fake deal that leaves Iran with enrichment
capability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  