-- Nokian Renkaat Stock Drops as Russia Hurts 2013 Forecasts
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-10-04T09:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/nokian-renkaat-stock-drops-as-russia-hurts-2013-forecasts.html
Nokian Renkaat Oyj (NRE1V) , the Nordic
region’s largest tiremaker, fell the most in almost a year after
cutting sales and profit forecasts because of slowing Russian
demand and the ruble’s decline.  Nokian Renkaat  dropped  as much as 10 percent, the steepest
intraday decline since Oct. 16, 2012, and traded down 7.7
percent at 34.64 euros as of 12:21 p.m. in Helsinki. Volume was
four times the three-month intraday average.  Full-year net sales and operating profit will decline as
currency effects from the ruble’s drop against the euro cut
revenue by about 25 million euros ($34 million) and reduce
earnings by 14 million euros, Nokian Renkaat said today in a
statement. The Nokia, Finland-based manufacturer previously
forecast both figures would be unchanged or show some growth.  The statement “indicates full-year earnings before
interest and taxes about 10 percent below consensus,” Rauli Juva, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB, said in a research report.
Issuing a forecast cut before the third-quarter earnings for the
second consecutive year is “a hit to the confidence in the
share,” he said, adding that he estimated “weaker pricing in
Central and Eastern  Europe  also impacted profitability.”  Investors are withdrawing from  emerging markets  as optimism
shifts to the U.S. and Europe amid signs of stabilization. The
euro-area economy is emerging from the longest recession on
record and U.S. growth last quarter surpassed analysts’
expectations.  Russian Economy  Russia’s gross domestic product gains have slowed for  six
straight quarters  and ruble was at its lowest price since 2009
versus the euro in August. Car sales in the country fell 10
percent from a year earlier in August and were down 7 percent
year-to-date.  Nokian Renkaat’s forecast is “fairly specific” to the
tiremaker,  David Arnold , a London-based automotive specialist 
at Barclays Plc’s investment-banking unit, said in an e-mail to
clients. Among competitors, only Italian producer Pirelli SpA
may face similar effects, given its Russian joint venture, he
said. Otherwise, there’s “no direct read” from the Finnish
company’s predictions for  Michelin & Cie. (ML) , the European tire-industry leader, or second-ranked  Continental AG. (CON)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  