-- Nomura Risk Decline Outpaces Goldman on Rescue Law: Japan Credit
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-10-04T00:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/nomura-risk-decline-outpaces-goldman-on-rescue-law-japan-credit.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s bond risk fell
to a three-year low, outpacing a decline for Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., after a new law allowed for government bailouts of
Japanese securities companies.  The cost to insure Nomura’s debt against non-payment slid
217 basis points in the past year to 118 this week, the least
since Oct. 12, 2010, according to data provider CMA. The drop
outpaced a 130 basis point retreat in the Markit iTraxx Japan
index and was almost four times greater than the 57 slump for
Goldman to 126.  Fitch Ratings Ltd. raised Nomura’s debt  rating  two levels
to A- on Sept. 25, saying the company has a greater chance of
rescue during a crisis because it is “systemically important.”
 Japan  passed legislation in June that made brokerages eligible
for capital from the state-run deposit insurance agency. Nomura
earnings have also been boosted by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
stimulus policies.  “The impact of the Deposit Insurance Law revision in June
on Nomura’s creditworthiness has taken some time to filter in,
with overseas investors now getting a grasp of its full
implications,” said Yusuke Ueda, a Tokyo-based research analyst
at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit. “Another reason for
the risk decline is the boost from Abenomics for the company’s
domestic earnings base.”  Stock Rally  Nomura’s  net income  soared to 65.9 billion yen ($677
million) in the quarter ended June 30, from 1.9 billion yen a
year earlier, as the country’s stock market rally spurred
brokerage commissions and fees from managing share sales, it
said in a statement on July 26. The Tokyo-based company managed
Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd.’s global initial public offering
quarter this year that raised almost $4 billion.  The  Topix (TPX)  index of Japanese stocks rose 58 percent in the
past year to 1,161.52 as of 9:41 a.m. today and reached the
highest level since 2008 on May 22.  An average  of 3.4 billion
shares were traded each day on the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s first
section in the first nine months, up from 1.8 billion a year
earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Nomura’s fortunes revived since Chief Executive Officer
Kenichi Watanabe was replaced by Koji Nagai in August following
an insider trading scandal that led some debt issuers to drop
the company from planned sales. The Financial Services Agency
ordered Nomura to improve its operations in August last year,
concluding an investigation that revealed the company failed to
prevent employees from providing tips to traders.  Beating Goldman  “We remain committed to winning the trust of the rating
agencies,” said Kenji Yamashita, a spokesman at Nomura. “We
will continue to build trust with our stakeholders by delivering
sustained profitability and maintaining our strong financial
position.”  The cost of insuring Nomura’s bonds was 153 points higher
than Goldman’s contracts a year ago, according to CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the private market. The Japanese company’s default-swaps fell
below those of its U.S. peer two days after Fitch’s upgrade and
have stayed lower since.  The credit-default swaps of  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) ,
Japan’s second-largest brokerage, plunged 156 basis points in
the past year to 132.5 yesterday, CMA data show. Fitch kept the
company’s rating unchanged at BBB+, one rank below Nomura,
citing its “lower systemic importance,” according to the Sept.
25 statement.  “Nomura is an easy name for investors to focus on with
some default-swap spread left relative to its improved
earnings,” Junichi Shimizu, a Tokyo-based credit analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG, said in a telephone interview. “Their default
swaps still have room to tighten.”  Bond Returns  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Nippon Yusen KK and
Tokyu Land Corp. registered to sell as much as 100 billion yen
of securities each, while Hokkaido Gas Co. registered for a
maximum 30 billion yen offering, according to separate filings
with Japan’s Finance Ministry. Sumitomo Corp. plans to sell 10-year notes this month, Nomura said in a statement yesterday.  Japan’s corporate bonds have handed investors a 1.35
percent return in the past year, compared with a 2.22 percent
gain for the nation’s sovereign notes, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. Company debt worldwide has
climbed 0.65 percent.  The yen has declined about 12 percent against the dollar
since Abe took office on Dec. 26 pledging unlimited monetary
stimulus to achieve 2 percent inflation rate and spur economic
growth. It traded at 97.28 yen as of 9:44 a.m. in  Tokyo  today.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond yield fell 0.5 basis point,
or 0.005 percentage point, to 0.635 percent in Tokyo.  Law Revision  The Deposit Insurance Law allows for financial support to
insurance providers, securities firms and other intermediaries
and creates a legal framework for “government intervention in
anticipation of serious disruption in the financial system,”
Fitch said. The law is due to come into force by the end of
March.  Nomura is seeking to strengthen its overseas business as
more Japanese companies target acquisitions and fundraising
opportunities overseas. The firm plans to send 30 junior bankers
study abroad annually to boost language skills and international
experience, according to a memo obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The company’s  shares  more than doubled in the past year to
Sept. 30 and closed 0.4 percent higher at 751 yen yesterday. The
 index  of securities stocks  led  the gains on the Topix in the
period, almost tripling to 468.11 from 165.96 a year earlier.  “There is still room for companies whose default-swaps
exceed 100 to tighten further,” Deutsche Bank’s Shimizu said.
“There are no obvious Japanese companies facing an urgent
 default risk .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  