-- Lockheed Gets Set to Furlough 3,000 Workers on Shutdown
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-10-05T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/lockheed-to-furlough-3-000-employees-due-to-government-shutdown.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the biggest
U.S. defense contractor, said it was ready to furlough 3,000
employees on Oct. 7 because of the partial government shutdown.  “I’m disappointed that we must take these actions and we
continue to encourage our lawmakers to come together to pass a
funding bill that will end this shutdown,” Chief Executive
Officer Marillyn A. Hewson said yesterday in a statement. She
said the number of workers on unpaid leave is expected to
increase weekly if the shutdown continues.  Warnings of planned or potential furloughs, coupled with
pleas for an end to the impasse, extended beyond Lockheed.
 Boeing Co. (BA) , the No. 2 contractor, said yesterday it may begin
“limited furloughs” next week. The Aerospace Industries
Association, a trade group, said tens of thousands of defense
workers face being forced off their jobs without pay.  “Shutting down the government has been a tragic mistake,”
said Marion Blakey, president of the Arlington, Virginia-based
association, which counts Lockheed and Boeing among its members.  Some Lockheed employees aren’t able to work because their
jobs are in closed government facilities, their tasks require
government inspections or a stop-work order has been received,
the company said in a statement.  Contacting Congress  “If you want to make your voice heard on this issue, I
urge you to contact your members of Congress on your personal
time,” Hewson said in a memo to employees.  The shutdown is negatively affecting development and testing
of Lockheed’s F-35 fighter jet, according to Air Force
Lieutenant General Christopher Bogdan, the Pentagon’s manager of
the $391.2 billion program. Flight tests have been hampered, and
aircraft deliveries are also at risk, he said in a statement.  “Maintaining a stable program is one of the key drivers to
keeping the F-35 on track and on budget,” Bogdan said. “We
look forward to a quick resolution that will enable our
government to properly function again.”  Lockheed fell less than 1 percent to $122.50 at the close
of trading yesterday in  New York . The Bethesda, Maryland-based
manufacturer received $36.9 billion in federal contracts in
fiscal 2012, which ended about a year ago, according to a
Bloomberg Government study.  Boeing Outlook  Boeing “is seeing increasing effects on certain daily
operations that involve U.S. government facilities and people,”
Dan Beck, a company spokesman, said by e-mail.  “We expect more consequences could emerge in the coming
days, including limited furloughs of employees in some areas,”
Beck said. The Chicago-based defense and aerospace company won
$30.3 billion in contracts in fiscal 2012, the BGOV study shows.  Some employees of  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , ranked
13th on the BGOV list with $4 billion in fiscal 2012 contracts,
are being assigned to other tasks or being allowed to take paid
leave, James Fisher, a spokesman for the consulting firm, said
by e-mail.  “We have not begun any furloughs, but are considering
various options, depending on the length of the shutdown,”
Fisher said. The company is based in McLean, Virginia.  The shutdown is affecting all aspects of military
contracting, according to a letter to Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel from Blakey, the aerospace association president, and
retired Lieutenant General Lawrence Farrell Jr., president of
the National Defense Industrial Association, also in Arlington.  Absent Inspectors  Blakey and Farrell said their “most immediate concern”
was the absence of contract-management inspectors, who audit
work throughout the manufacturing process.  Two other top defense contractors,  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and
 United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , have said they plan cutbacks
following the government shutdown that began Oct. 1.  As many as 10 percent to 15 percent of the 34,500 employees
of London-based BAE’s U.S. unit may be affected, according to
Neil Franz, a company spokesman.  The U.S. division, BAE Systems Inc., already has excused
1,000 employees from work, Linda Hudson, the unit’s chief
executive officer, said yesterday in a statement. The division
will pay affected workers through this week, Hudson said Sept.
30 in a message posted on Facebook Inc.’s website.  United Technologies Corp., a supplier of military  jet
engines  and helicopters, said this week that an extended U.S.
shutdown would put as many as 5,000 employees on unpaid leave.  The first effect will be furloughs for about 2,000 workers
at the company’s Sikorsky Aircraft unit on Oct. 7, and possibly
2,000 more at  Pratt & Whitney  and UTC Aerospace Systems if the
shutdown extends into next week, the Hartford, Connecticut-based
manufacturer said Oct. 2. It said the total may surpass 5,000
employees if the partial closure continues into November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net . 