-- OGX Said to Weigh Bankruptcy Protection Filing in a Month
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-10-04T22:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/ogx-said-to-weigh-bankruptcy-protection-filing-in-a-month.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA,
the  oil company  controlled by former billionaire  Eike Batista ,
is considering filing for  bankruptcy protection  in about a
month, said two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The filing would be done in Rio de Janeiro, said the
people, asking not to be identified as discussions are private.
While Batista is negotiating with creditors to avoid the same
process for shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , the most likely outcome
is that both companies will seek legal protection, they said.  The proceedings would put $3.6 billion of OGX dollar bonds
into default in Latin America’s largest corporate debt debacle.
For Batista, it would culminate an 18-month decline that wiped
out more than $30 billion of his fortune after offshore deposits
he had valued at $1 trillion turned out to be duds.  Once a judge accepts a filing, the company would have 60
days to present a restructuring plan. The judicial process gives
new investors top priority for payments, said Leonardo Morato,
chairman of the local affiliate of the Turnaround Management
Association of professionals involved with corporate recovery.
He declined to comment on OGX’s case specifically.  In a statement to Brazilian regulators yesterday, OGX said
it’s considering all legal measures to keep the business running
and protect its interests. The company and its advisers,  Lazard
Ltd. (LAZ)  and  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , are analyzing different capital
restructuring scenarios, it said.  OGX declined to comment in an e-mailed response to
questions. While bankruptcy protection is a legal option for all
companies, OSX has no plans to file for the moment, the
shipbuilder said in an e-mailed response.  More Cash  On Sept. 13, Chief Executive Officer Luiz Carneiro said OGX
was considering asking bondholders for more cash as it seeks to
avoid having to file for bankruptcy protection.  The company missed a $45 million bond payment Oct. 1,
prompting  Standard & Poor’s  to assign its default rating while
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings said they’d give OGX
the 30-day grace period before calling a default.  As of June 30, OGX had 722 million reais ($327 million) in
cash and equivalents and 8.7 billion reais in total debt,
including $2.6 billion of notes due 2018. A default of the $3.6
billion international bonds would be the region’s biggest
corporate default, according to data compiled by Moody’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  