-- Mol Drops 3rd Day as Premier Orban Says Sell INA: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-10-04T12:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/mol-drops-3rd-day-as-premier-orban-says-sell-ina-budapest-mover.html
Mol Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest refiner,
dropped for a third day after Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said
the company should sell its stake in a Croatian subsidiary back
to the Adriatic country to resolve a dispute.  The  shares  fell 2.8 percent to 14,990 forint by 1:44 p.m.
in Budapest, the lowest level in 16 months. About 172,000
securities changed hands, three times the three-month daily
average. The benchmark  BUX (BUX)  index, in which Mol has the second-heaviest weighting at 29.5 percent, retreated 1 percent.  The Budapest-based company has slid 6.3 percent since
Croatia issued an arrest warrant against Chairman  Zsolt Hernadi 
as part of a bribery probe into the 2009 deal that gave it
control of  INA Industrija Nafte d.d.  Successive governments have
sought to re-establish  Croatia ’s influence over INA. The state
is using “non-economic” methods to intimidate Mol and should
consider buying back the holding and settling on the price “in
a fair way,” Orban said in a radio interview today.  “We see a palpable urge from Hungarian politicians to
enter the dispute,” Balazs Sore, a Budapest-based equities
trader at BudaCash Brokerhaz Zrt., said by phone. “With a war
of words and no concrete developments, the stock is more likely
to lose.”  Mol said yesterday it may consider selling its 49.1 stake
in INA back to Croatia, which holds 44.8 percent. Hungary is the
largest owner of Mol, with 24.6 percent of shares outstanding.  The stock’s 14-day relative strength index was at 30.5,
compared with 46 on Oct. 1. Readings below 30 indicate to some
analysts that a security is oversold.  “The drop seems a bit overblown,” BudaCash’s Sore said.
“Larger holders are reducing their exposure to the stock and
the market may not be able to absorb this volume.”  Four analysts recommend investors buy the shares, while 10
have a hold rating and five say sell, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  