-- Mondelez to Enter Dutch, Australia Coffee Markets
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-10-04T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/mondelez-to-enter-dutch-australia-coffee-markets.html
Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ) , the
world’s second-biggest coffee maker, will expand into the
Netherlands and Australia and bring its Nespresso-compatible
capsules into  Spain  this month in an attempt to capture more of
the global $80 billion coffee market.  Mondelez, based in Deerfield,  Illinois , will start selling
a range of roast and ground, whole bean and single-serve coffee
capsules under the Velours Noir brand in Dutch retailer Albert
Heijn BV on Oct. 7, the company said in a statement today. It
will also enter the Australia market this month for the first
time and add its Carte Noire Nespresso-compatible espresso
capsules in Spain, where it already has other coffee products.  Mondelez sells Carte Noire single-serve capsules in
Germany, France, Austria and Switzerland, posing a challenge to
 Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest coffee maker which owns
Nespresso coffee brewers.  The Netherlands, which ranks second globally in coffee
consumption per head, “is a big coffee drinking nation so the
market value is sizable,” Roland Weening, president of
Mondelez’s coffee business, said in an interview. He declined to
say how much its single-serve capsules would cost at Albert
Heijn, the retailer owned by  Royal Ahold NV. (AH)   The Dutch coffee market grew 12 percent to $1.14 billion
last year, according to data tracker Euromonitor.  D.E Master
Blenders 1753 NV (DE) , which agreed to be bought by Joh. A. Benckiser
in April, is the nation’s biggest coffee maker with over 50
percent of the market, Euromonitor has said. Master Blenders
also sells Nespresso-compatible capsules under the L’OR brand.  Mondelez, which also makes snacks such as Oreo cookies and
Ritz crackers, was created in a separation from Kraft Foods Inc.
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  