-- MongoDB Now King of NYC Startups With $1.2 Billion Valuation
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-10-04T20:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/mongodb-becomes-king-of-nyc-startups-with-1-2-billion-valuation.html
MongoDB Inc. , capitalizing on the
popularity of its online database software, raised $150 million
in a venture-funding round that would make it the most valuable
Internet startup in  New York .  The deal attracted new investors such as  EMC Corp. (EMC)  and
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , along with previous backers  Red Hat Inc. (RHT) ,
 Intel Corp. (INTC) , New Enterprise Associates and  Sequoia Capital ,
according to MongoDB. The round values the company at $1.2
billion, said two people familiar with the matter, who asked not
to be identified because the valuation isn’t public.  MongoDB has been quietly building a global database
business -- with its sales and headcount more than doubling each
year, Chief Executive Officer Max Schireson said. The company is
making inroads with its lower-cost software, aiming to threaten
the dominance of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s relational databases, he said.  “We’re picking up an increasing share of the market and
over time that could become a really significant share,” said
Schireson, who declined to discuss MongoDB’s valuation. “The
volume and type of data and the consumer and developer
expectations are so radically different than they were when the
relational database was invented.”  Fidelity Investments  led the round, with Altimeter Capital
and T. Rowe Price also participating as first-time investors.
MongoDB, which has its West Coast headquarters in  Palo Alto ,
 California , has now raised more than $231 million.  Lower Profile  The deal vaults MongoDB to the top of the heap among New
York startups, despite having a lower profile than consumer Web
companies such as Foursquare Labs Inc., Gilt Groupe Inc. and
Etsy Inc. At $1.2 billion, the valuation would exceed the
roughly $1 billion Yahoo! Inc. paid for Tumblr Inc. this year.
Union Square Ventures, an investor in Twitter Inc., provided
early funding for MongoDB.  MongoDB -- whose name is a play on humongous -- now has
about 600 customers, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
MetLife Inc., Schireson said. The company markets its database
software as easier to manipulate and scale up, making it better-suited to the Internet age.  Founders Dwight Merriman and Eliot Horowitz came up with
the idea for MongoDB’s NoSQL database technology after getting
frustrated at having to make specialized systems from scratch to
handle their company’s needs. At the time, the two were working
at DoubleClick, an advertising-technology business that was
acquired by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in 2008 for $3.1 billion.  “We spent too much time working to custom-build databases
when we should have been working on the project we wanted to
work on,” Horowitz said. “We wanted to go ahead and solve the
database problem so we wouldn’t have to do it again and again.”  Subscription Model  MongoDB, formerly called 10Gen, sells its database
technology as a subscription, charging about $5,000 per server
per year -- with support and training included. That differs
from the multiyear, multimillion-dollar contracts traditionally
used by software providers. The total database market is worth
$30 billion, according to Forrester Research Inc.  The company also gives free lessons on how to use its
 database software . The more programmers that understand the
technology, the more likely it is that companies will build
applications for the platform, Schireson said. The software has
been downloaded more than 5 million times.  Regional Growth  The free seminars also give the company a sense of where
its software is catching on, said Joe Morrissey, head of
MongoDB’s operations in  Europe , the Middle East and Africa, or
EMEA. The company drew more than 200 people to an event in  Tel
Aviv  and 100 people to one in  Cape Town , building on its
strength in countries such as  Germany  and the U.K., he said.  “We’re growing at least 300 percent a year here in EMEA,”
Morrissey said.  Some developers have complained about architectural issues
with the product, which MongoDB plans to address with the
funding round, said Harry Weller, a general partner at  New
Enterprise Associates .  “Mongo is becoming a general-purpose database and there
are going to be scenarios where it’s not perfect,” Weller said.
“That’s why this funding is being raised.”  The rise of big data is helping fuel MongoDB’s growth.
Companies are seeking new ways to manage a flood of information
on their customers and the markets they serve, aiming to use the
data to make decisions in real time. The market for big-data
technology and services will grow at 32 percent annually,
research firm  IDC  predicts.  More Partners  With the new funding, MongoDB is looking to accelerate its
global expansion and find more partners that can help customize
its software for different industries. So far, it’s teamed up
with 250 other companies, the biggest of which is  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  MongoDB has gotten some acquisition
interest, but executives aren’t considering selling at this
time, Weller said.  Schireson has recruited many of his executives from Oracle,
where he used to work, and other corporate-software companies.
His staff has increased to more than 300 this year, and he plans
to double MongoDB’s headcount next year.  “We made a good living at Oracle managing teams that would
do projects for customers for tens of millions of dollars to get
big systems built,” he said. “Now what we’re trying to do is
make it easy, so people can do it themselves in weeks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  