-- Orban Urges Croatia to Buy Back Mol Stake to Settle Row
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-10-04T07:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/orban-urges-croatia-to-buy-back-mol-stake-to-settle-row.html
Croatia should consider buying back
Mol Nyrt.’s stake in Zagreb-based refiner INA Industrija Nafte
d.d. to settle a dispute the government has with the Hungarian
oil company, Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said.  Croatia is applying “non-economic” methods to intimidate
Mol, Orban said in a state radio interview today, referring to
the arrest warrant Croatia issued this week for Mol Chairman
 Zsolt Hernadi  as it probes Mol’s 2009 acquisition in the $7.3
billion unit.  “We recommend to the Croatians that they consider -- just
like we usually do in  Hungary  -- to take these shares into state
hands and to settle” on the price “in a fair way,” Orban
said. “But there’s no need to arrest anyone.”  The Adriatic country is investigating the contract that
gave Mol management control over INA after a Zagreb court ruled
former Premier Ivo Sanader received a bribe from Mol in the 2009
deal and sentenced him to a 10 years in prison. Sanader is
appealing. Mol has denied any wrongdoing.  Mol shares Mol dropped 1 percent to 15,270 forint by 9:08
a.m. in Budapest, extending its decline to 4.6 percent in the
past three days and heading for its lowest close in 16 months.
Mol owns 49.1 percent of INA.  Croatia , which complains Mol runs
INA as a subsidiary rather than an independent company, holds
44.84 percent.  Orban’s statement suggests Hungary’s government, which has
almost a 25 percent stake in Mol, “has influence on Mol’s
strategy,” which may result in a “discount in Mol’s valuation
justs like in the case of many Russian oil and gas companies,”
Peter Szentirmai, a Budapest-based analyst at KBC Securities,
said in an e-mail today.  Price Pressure  This may also impact the price Mol can get for INA as a
“state-ordered decision doesn’t bode well, even if selling the
stake would be the economically reasonable step from Mol,”
Szentirmai said.  Mol, Hungary’s largest refiner, yesterday said it would
consider selling its stake in the $7.3 billion Croatian  oil
company , a day after Orban’s government said it should review
this option.  Orban also said that besides Hernadi’s arrest warrant,
there were “four-five” other ongoing cases in which the
“Hungarian economic elite’s most high-profile people are
affected.” He didn’t specify the cases or who were affected.  “The way we see it is that Croatia is using non-economic
methods” to pressure Mol, “which don’t justify us staying on
the Croatian energy market,” Orban said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  