-- Polish Central Banker Gilowska Resigns From Rate-Setting Council
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-10-04T17:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/more-zyta-gilowska-quits-polish-c-bank-policy-council.html
Zyta Gilowska quit the Polish central
bank’s Monetary Policy Council, giving a chance for President
Bronislaw Komorowski to replace her with someone more likely to
support lower rates.  Gilowska announced her resignation without explanation in a
statement posted today on the website of the president, who
accepted her decision and has three months to appoint a
successor. Gilowska didn’t answer calls to her mobile phone.  The Narodowy Bank Polski’s 10-person Monetary Policy
Council, led by Governor Marek Belka, has kept its benchmark
rate at a record-low 2.5 percent since July. Gilowska voted for
one of eight rate cuts since November, according to the central
bank’s  website . She missed the first two meetings this year.  “She was a key and consistent hawk and will likely be
replaced by the biggest uber-dove,” Peter Attard Montalto, a
London-based emerging-markets economist at Nomura International
Plc said by e-mail today. While her replacement wouldn’t be able
to push through another rate cut, this “means getting a hike
next year will be a little bit more difficult.”  The zloty was little changed at 4.2035 per euro at 7:07
p.m. in Warsaw. The yield on the government’s five-year zloty
bonds rose 1 basis point to 3.82 percent.  The central bank left rates unchanged this week and
repeated in its post-meeting statement that borrowing costs are
unlikely to change until at least the end of the year.  Health Issues  Gilowska, who served as finance minister in 2005 and 2006,
has been plagued by health problems. She told the Super Express
newspaper in 2009 that she’d been suffering from a “congenital
heart defect” and underwent aortic valve surgery in 2004. She
missed three meetings from July through October last year
because of a medical procedure.  Gilowska was one of three council members appointed by late
President Lech Kaczynski in February 2010, along with Andrzej Kazmierczak and  Adam Glapinski . The president also appoints the
central bank’s governor, while the remaining six members of the
council are chosen by the parliament.  President Komorowski will “spare no time” in appointing
Gilowska’s replacement, Olgierd Dziekonski, an official in his
office, said in a phone interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  