-- Toshiba Wants to Acquire Majority Stake in U.K.’s NuGeneration
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   W i l l   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-10-04T11:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/toshiba-wants-to-acquire-majority-stake-in-u-k-s-nugeneration.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502) , the Japanese maker of
atomic reactors and flash-memory chips, said it wants to buy a
majority stake in the British nuclear venture NuGeneration Ltd.  The Tokyo-based company plans to make a decision before Dec.
31, said Naomi Furuya, a spokeswoman for Toshiba. She declined
to provide more details.  Reuters reported yesterday that Toshiba Chief Executive
Officer Hisao Tanaka said the company wants a majority stake in
the British nuclear group. Furuya confirmed his comments.  NuGen, currently owned by European utilities GDF Suez SA
and Iberdrola SA, plans to develop a nuclear plant at Moorside
in northwest  England . The company is deciding between two
reactor designs, including the AP1000 unit built by Toshiba’s
Westinghouse Electric unit.  “NuGen is aware of the media speculation surrounding
comments reportedly made by the CEO of Toshiba and concerning
interest in NuGen,” said John McNamara, a spokesman for the U.K.
company. “We have no comment to make on that speculation.”  Toshiba plans to sell 150,000 tracking units in Europe
during the next three years to manage and track energy use as it
expands sales in the U.K. and  Germany , the company said Sept. 5.
Toshiba delayed a nuclear sales goal of 1 trillion yen to fiscal
year 2018 from 2017, Tanaka said in August.  Westinghouse agreed with Exelon Nuclear Partners to jointly
propose building nuclear facilities in Saudi Arabia, the
Japanese company said last month. Toshiba and Westinghouse would
be in charge of equipment design and technology, and Chicago-based Exelon would oversee operational services, according to a
statement.  Toshiba also is benefiting from demand for hydro, wind and
gas-fired stations in the aftermath of  Japan ’s Fukushima nuclear
accident in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  