-- Otamendi Poised to Join Chelsea at End of Season: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-10-04T10:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/otamendi-poised-to-join-chelsea-at-end-of-season-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Otamendi to Chelsea?  Porto defender Nicolas Otamendi is on his way to Chelsea at
the end of the season, Spain’s  Marca reported .  Blues coach  Jose Mourinho  beat Barcelona and AC Milan in
signing the 25-year-old, the newspaper added. Otamendi joined
Porto in 2010 after making three appearances for Argentina at
the  World Cup  in South Africa.  Ibrahimovic Wants Rooney  Zlatan Ibrahimovic wants fellow striker  Wayne Rooney  to
join him at Paris Saint-Germain, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Rooney, 27, wanted to leave Manchester United during the
off-season and the Ligue 1 champion was ready to bid, a prospect
that “excited” Ibrahimovic, the newspaper said.  “If he still wants to move next summer or in January, I
would urge him to come and play with me in Paris,” the Swede
was reported as saying.  Herrera Staying Put  United has failed in its bid for midfielder Ander Herrera
after Athletic Bilbao offered him a new contract, the  Daily
Express reported .  Coach  David Moyes  tried to sign the 24-year-old Spaniard
during the last transfer window and was looking to re-open
negotiations in January, the newspaper added.  Suarez’s $90 Million Fee  Liverpool is sticking to its 55 million-pound ($88.4
million) asking price for  Luis Suarez , 10 million pounds more
than Real Madrid may be willing to offer when the January
transfer window opens, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Uruguay striker was “desperate” to move to the
Bernabeu during the summer, but  Gareth Bale ’s record transfer
from Tottenham Hotspur meant Madrid were unwilling to meet
Liverpool’s fee, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  