-- How Obama Can Apologize for Snubbing Asia
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-04T20:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/how-obama-can-apologize-for-snubbing-asia.html
President  Barack Obama ’s decision to
cancel his already truncated trip to  Asia  next week has elicited
shrugs in Washington and politely clenched jaws from Bali to
 Tokyo . What else could he do, say those focused on the high-stakes U.S. budget stalemate. What else is new, say those hoping
that the administration will deliver on its promise of a
“pivot” or a “rebalancing” toward Asia.  Much of the criticism of the cancellation comes from those
worried about  China ’s growing economic and strategic heft. The
Chinese are playing a long game in the region, it’s said:
President Xi Jinping has been crisscrossing  Southeast Asia ,
glad-handing counterparts and talking up business deals.
Questioning the U.S. commitment to Asia is a default setting for
pundits -- one reinforced by Obama’s previous two cancellations
of Asia trips in 2010 -- and the Chinese want their neighbors to
know they aren’t going anywhere.  You don’t need to be Sun Tzu to exploit this dynamic. Pure
geography means that Chinese officials will always outdo their
U.S. counterparts in the number of meetings held, deals signed,
hands shaken. Countries in the region will always hedge their
bets, rolling out the red carpet for Secretary of State  John Kerry  one week, then jetting off to Beijing to pose with Xi and
Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang .  No doubt the U.S. would have benefited if Obama had gone
ahead with his trip. Negotiations for the 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact are nearing the endgame. A little
presidential charm or arm-twisting would surely help negotiators
overcome the stumbling blocks presented by Japan’s closed
agricultural markets, Malaysia’s ethnic preferences and
 Vietnam ’s state-owned enterprises.  At the same time, the agonizing in some quarters over the
missed opportunity and U.S. loss of face is exaggerated. China’s
heavy-handed behavior is the reason for renewed local interest
in a strong U.S. presence. Nations from Myanmar to Vietnam to
 Japan  are bridling at Chinese arrogance, military assertiveness
and (as they see it) economic exploitation. That’s why Japan’s
government wants to  ramp up  its military ties to the U.S. That’s
why the  Philippines  is interested in reopening Subic Bay as a
naval station for U.S. warships. And that’s why China is
attempting a new charm offensive.  Obama’s failure to don a batik shirt for the closing photo
shoot of the  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation  summit changes
little. In addition, if the past is any guide, China’s leaders
will once again overplay their hand. For many of its neighbors,
China’s uncompromising stance on sovereignty over various
disputed atolls and islands is just too alienating.  The U.S. would do well to play a long game of its own. More
important than all the talk about “rebalancing” is the
substance, especially concerning trade and investment. The U.S.
now exports goods worth more than $325 billion a year to Pacific
Rim nations. Kerry and Commerce Secretary  Penny Pritzker  can
push for more. Even Congress has done its part by so far
blessing sales of cheap shale gas to Asian nations, with or
without free-trade agreements. At home, Obama can urge U.S. auto
manufacturers and others to stop resisting some of the TPP’s
provisions -- demands that will only provoke deal-breaking
counterdemands from their Asian competitors.  The U.S. could shine more light on unrest in countries such
as  Cambodia , where recent elections were tainted by charges of
fraud. It can expand its emerging strategic cooperation with
nations such as Vietnam, including a possible end to the embargo
on the sale of lethal U.S. military equipment.  Asia’s leaders will judge the U.S. commitment partly by the
resources -- financial, diplomatic and military -- that the
administration has available to it. Cuts at the Pentagon have
already caused alarm across the region. A functioning U.S.
government not about to default on its debts will send a more
impressive message than a presidential visit while  Washington 
flails.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 