-- OZ Minerals Cheap Mines Seen Luring Glencore to Anglo: Real M&A
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-10-04T06:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/oz-minerals-cheap-mines-seen-luring-glencore-to-anglo-real-m-a.html
OZ Minerals Ltd. (OZL)  has fallen so far
that it offers potential suitors decades of Australian copper
production at the world’s cheapest valuation.  After its shares plunged  76 percent  in less than three
years, and a slump in copper prices prompted a writedown on its
only producing mine, the Melbourne-based company was yesterday
valued at $1.2 billion, one third below an appraisal of its two
mines by Macquarie Group Ltd. Excluding cash, no peer trades
lower relative to earnings and only one is cheaper relative to
reserves, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s Carrapateena project is slated to produce
copper for more than 20 years once it reaches production, while
its current working mine, Prominent Hill, could yield the metal
until 2019, Macquarie said. Glencore Xstrata Plc,  Anglo American
Plc (AAL) , and a venture formed by the former head of Xstrata Plc,
Mick Davis, are among possible buyers, said  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   “As a package, OZ Minerals, in terms of their projects and
their prospects, is very attractive,” Peter Esho, Sydney-based
chief market analyst at Invast Securities Co., said by phone.
“There’s been a destruction in  shareholder value  and that’s
what makes it a prime takeover target.”  OZ Minerals Chief Executive Officer Terry Burgess said in
an e-mailed response to questions that the company “would
always consider any offer that provided value to our
shareholders.” Any deal would need to recognize efforts to
lower costs and the potential of development projects, he said.  The  shares  today rose as much as 2 percent before closing
up 1.6 percent at A$4.40 in Sydney. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index gained 0.1 percent.  Profit Recovery  Australia ’s third-largest copper producer is at a “turning
point,” Burgess said in an interview in August. OZ Minerals
will post a A$196.6 million ($185 million) loss in 2013 before
returning to profit next year, according to analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Income will nearly quadruple to A$124
million two years later, according to the estimates.  “While it’s had a tough couple of years, in 2014 they will
turn the corner,”  Michael Evans , a Sydney-based analyst at CIMB
Group Holdings Bhd. said by phone.  The profit slump has followed a drop in copper prices this
year amid a glut of supply. After more than quadrupling in the
decade to 2012, copper for delivery in three months has fallen
about 9 percent in 2013 on the London Metal Exchange. While
copper is forecast to drop another 4 percent over the next four
years, consumption by  China  and  India  means demand will rebound,
said Invast’s Esho.  “There’s still a fair bit of supply to work through the
market, but the long term’s very different,” he said.  Cheap Mines  With Oz Minerals’s shares trading at just A$4.33 yesterday
after plunging from a November 2010 peak of A$18 a share, miners
have an opportunity to acquire its copper projects at a
discount. The operations have a combined net present value of
about A$1.9 billion, Macquarie analysts wrote in a Sept. 30
note. That’s about 46 percent more than the company’s A$1.3
billion market capitalization.  Cash and investments in companies including  Sandfire
Resources NL (SFR)  total about A$666 million, accounting for about
half of the current market value. OZ Minerals has no debt.  After stripping out the company’s cash, OZ Minerals trades
at only twice its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization in the past 12 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg yesterday. That’s less than any of its 30
global peers with a market value greater than $1 billion, the
data show.  ‘Small Bite’  It also fetches just 0.006 times its valued reserves and
resources. Among copper miners, only  Grupo Mexico SAB de CV ,
which says it has the world’s largest copper reserves, trades
more cheaply, the data show.  OZ Minerals would be a bargain for larger copper producers
including Glencore, Anglo American, Lundin Mining Corp. or
Antofagasta Plc, Mathew Hodge, a Sydney-based analyst at
Morningstar, said by phone. The bigger operators would be better
able to extract profits from the mines by cutting down expenses,
he said.  “It’s a small bite for any of those guys,” Hodge said.
Carrapateena has the potential to be “a very, very, good long-term, long-life mine.”  Representatives for Anglo American, Glencore and Lundin
Mining declined to comment on their interest in OZ Minerals. In
an e-mail, Antofagasta also declined to comment.  Anglo American, which is exploring for copper in Chile and
 Peru , is prepared to be “opportunistic” in pursuing takeovers
even as prices fall, CEO  Mark Cutifani , said in an interview in
June.  Glencore Bid?  The U.K.’s Mail on Sunday newspaper said Sept. 29 that
Glencore is weighing a bid for OZ Minerals after buying as much
as 10 percent of the stock. Glencore at the time declined to
comment on the report, which cited unidentified sources, and OZ
Minerals said it hadn’t been told Glencore had bought such a
stake.  Peter Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News , is a non-executive director of Glencore Xstrata.  The Baar, Switzerland-based commodities trader in May
completed the $29 billion purchase of Xstrata and is currently
selling a Peruvian  copper mine , which may be valued at more than
$5 billion, as part of an agreement to win Chinese approval for
the deal.  Potential Buyer  X2 Resources, the venture founded by Xstrata’s former CEO
 Mick Davis  and its former chief financial officer Trevor Reid,
this week said it raised $1 billion to start a mining and metals
group. The new company may target OZ Minerals, said Warwick Grigor, Sydney-based Australian executive chairman and research
director at Canaccord Genuity Wealth Management.  Andy Mills, a London-based spokesman for X2 Resources at
Aura Financial, declined to comment.  Having unsuccessfully bid for Rio Tinto Group’s Northparkes
copper mine in New South Wales and a state-owned mine in Romania
in the last 18 months, OZ Minerals may be keener to acquire
assets than be bought, said Matthew Keane, a Perth-based analyst
with Argonaut Securities Pty.  “As a target, it’s pretty hard to fathom,” he said.
“It’s hard to see anyone getting excited about potentially a
high development cost stock with a rapidly declining mine
life.”  Prominent Hill is scheduled to close by around 2019, though
OZ Minerals is considering adding a second underground pit to
extend the mine’s life. Discovered in 2005, Carrapateena will
need A$2 billion to A$3 billion of investment before it’s
operational, the company said in a presentation in May.  Still, the project could produce as much as 110,000 tons of
copper per year and yield metal for at least 20 years,  according 
to OZ Minerals. In central  South Australia , Carrapateena offers
buyers a “top-tier asset,” Vince Pisani, an analyst at Shaw
Stockbroking Ltd., said by phone from Sydney.  After a stock-market battering, OZ Minerals may be too good
a target to ignore, according to Esho at Invast Securities.  “This is a perfect time to pick this up,” he said. “It
is a very attractive set of assets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  