-- Pena Nieto’s PRI Said to Propose Watered Down Mexico Tax Bill
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-10-04T23:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/pena-nieto-s-pri-said-to-propose-watered-down-mexico-tax-bill.html
Lawmakers from Mexican President
Enrique Pena Nieto’s party are seeking to remove from his tax
bill new levies that the opposition calls an attack on middle-income families, two people with knowledge of the changes said.  Lower house legislators want to scrap value-added taxes
Pena Nieto proposed for private education tuition, home rentals
and mortgage interest, among other changes, the two people said.
The lawmakers are seeking approval from the government to
implement the changes during debates in Congress, according to
one of the people. A draft of the proposal obtained by Bloomberg
shows they back measures to raise the  sales tax  in areas that
border the U.S. to 16 percent from 11 percent.  Pena Nieto’s proposal, presented Sept. 8, seeks to spur
investment by shifting taxes away from the state-controlled
energy sector and toward other revenue sources as part of his
efforts to boost  economic growth  above 5 percent. The bill would
increase  tax revenue  by 1.4 percentage points of gross domestic
product in 2014 by lifting sales-tax exemptions in place for
many other items while also proposing a higher maximum income
tax and a new capital gains tax.  The president’s office didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment about changes proposed by members of his
 Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI.  The opposition  National Action Party , or PAN, whose votes
Pena Nieto needs to pass a bill to open the state-controlled
 energy industry  to more private investment, has said the tax
overhaul disproportionately targets middle-income families.  The PAN has said the tuition tax proposal and tax on
mortgage interest should be dropped. If those taxes remain,
along with the higher border tax, the PAN would vote against the
bill, Jose Isabel Trejo, a member of the party who heads the
lower house Finance Committee, said in an interview yesterday.  The border cities now charge a lower  tax rate  to better
compete with the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  