-- Pennsylvania Governor Corbett Compares Gay Marriages to Incest
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-04T15:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/pennsylvania-governor-corbett-compares-gay-marriages-to-incest.html
Pennsylvania  Governor Tom Corbett
compared gay marriage to incest in a televised interview.  Corbett, a 64-year-old first-term Republican, is defending
Pennsylvania’s ban on same-sex unions. During an interview that
aired today on WHP-TV in Harrisburg, Corbett was asked his
opinion about state lawyers arguing that marriage between
members of the same gender should be illegal just as marriage
between children is.  “I think a much better analogy would have been brother and
sister, don’t you?” he said, according to a YouTube clip
distributed to the media by the Pennsylvania Democratic Party.  Corbett said in a statement after the interview aired that
he didn’t intend to offend anyone. The governor said he was
trying to provide an example of a category of people who can’t
obtain a marriage license.  “Same-sex marriage is an important issue and the question
of its legal status is one that will be heard and decided upon
its merits, with respect and compassion shown to all sides,” he
said.  Corbett filed papers Sept. 30 seeking to dismiss a federal
lawsuit brought by the  American Civil Liberties Union  to
overturn the ban. The complaint is one of at least four lawsuits
filed in the state after the U.S. Supreme Court in June struck
down the Defense of Marriage Act, which denied federal benefits
to married gay couples.  Legal Challenge  The ACLU sued Corbett in July on behalf of 23 plaintiffs,
including 10 same-sex couples and a widow. That same month, a
court official in the state’s Montgomery County began issuing
marriage licenses to same-sex couples after Attorney General
Kathleen Kane, a Democrat, called the ban unconstitutional and
said she wouldn’t defend it.  Attorneys for the state argued in a court filing in August
that couples who received marriage licenses cannot presume the
documents were valid.  “Had the clerk issued marriage licenses to twelve-year-olds in violation of state law, would anyone seriously contend
that each twelve-year-old has a legally enforceable ‘interest’
in his ‘license,’” lawyers said in the filing.  Last year, Corbett made controversial remarks related to
abortion. When asked about a bill that would have mandated
ultrasound examinations for pregnant women before abortions,
Corbett said, “You just have to close your eyes.”  Corbett is facing a re-election bid in 2014. Only one in
five registered voters said Corbett deserves re-election,
according to a poll released Aug. 28 by Franklin & Marshall
College in Lancaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  