-- Pentagon Contract Winners Go Unannounced as Shutdown Lingers
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-10-04T16:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/pentagon-contract-winners-go-unannounced-as-shutdown-lingers.html
The Pentagon may have awarded
millions or billions of dollars in contracts since the U.S.
government partially closed Oct. 1.  Who knows?  The exact amount will remain a mystery for now, because the
military said this week it has stopped publicly announcing
contract awards. And the Defense Department won’t resume until
the shutdown ends.  “During the shutdown we will not be able to publicly
announce contracts,” Lieutenant Commander Nathan Christensen, a
Pentagon spokesman, said in an e-mail. When it ends, the
Pentagon plans to catch up with “one big announcement.”  The military’s awards notices, which reveal competitive and
sometimes market-moving information, are closely followed by
contractors, attorneys, investors and the media. They are among
the government data that has disappeared from public view during
the shutdown. The casualties include Census data, agricultural
price reports and the Labor Department’s September payrolls
report that was scheduled for release today.  The defense-contracts blackout is “difficult to justify
from a policy standpoint” and may even be illegal, said Robert Burton, a Washington-based partner at the law firm Venable LLP
and former acting administrator of the U.S. Office of Federal
Procurement Policy. By  law , the Pentagon must publicly announce
each day’s awards by 5 p.m. Washington time for contracts valued
at $6.5 million or more, acquisition attorneys said.  “If they have time to go through the process of making
awards during the shutdown, they should make that information
public,” Burton said.  Pentagon Furloughs  James Swartout, a Pentagon spokesman, said the department
is aware of the requirements for contract announcements
described in the law.  “The personnel that support the announcement of these
important contract awards” have been furloughed, Swartout said
in an e-mail yesterday.  Pentagon spokesmen didn’t directly answer e-mailed
questions about whether the decision to not announce the awards
violated federal regulation.  Eric DeMarco, chief executive officer of San Diego-based
 Kratos Defense & Security Solutions Inc. (KTOS) , said the awards
notices help his company track what competitors are doing.
Investors and industry analysts call when they see the company
didn’t win.  “They want to know: Why did you lose? What happened?”
DeMarco said.  Big Awards  The announcements “give visibility” into a company’s
future business, said Sam Pearlstein, an analyst at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC  in  New York .  “Anyone who pays close attention to the defense
contractors looks at those announcements,” he said in an
interview.  Pearlstein said some contractors may issue press releases
for large awards, which would provide another source for some of
the data.  The Aerospace Industries Association uses the announcements
to track which defense programs are benefiting from increased
spending, said Dan Stohr, a spokesman for the Arlington,
Virginia-based trade association. The group’s members include
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , Waltham,
Massachusetts-based  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and Melbourne, Florida-based
 Harris Corp. (HRS)   Industry Letter  “There’s really nowhere else you can get that kind of
situational awareness,” Stohr said. “If those announcements
aren’t occurring, we don’t have a sense of who is getting what
unless the company makes an announcement.”  The shutdown is affecting all aspects of military
contracting, according to a letter to Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel from Marion Blakey, president of the Aerospace Industries
Association, and retired Lieutenant General Lawrence Farrell Jr., president of the Arlington, Virginia-based National Defense
Industrial Association.  The two industry officials said their “most immediate
concern” is the absence of contract-management inspectors, who
normally audit and approve throughout the manufacturing process.
Without their review, that process must halt, they wrote in the
 letter  yesterday.  The organizations also were informed that the Defense
Financing and Accounting Service will stop functioning next
week, Blakey and Farrell said. The effects on credit lines for
small businesses and  cash flow  for larger businesses, will be
“significant in short order,” they said.  More Competition  The Pentagon awarded more than $360 billion in contracts in
the year that ended Sept. 30, 2012, accounting for more than
two-thirds of government awards. The market has become
increasingly competitive as the pool of awards shrinks in part
due to across-the-board budget cuts.  On Sept. 30, the last day of fiscal 2013, the Defense
Department announced more than $5 billion in contracts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The winners included
top contractors Lockheed, Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) , Raytheon and
 Falls Church , Virginia-based  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)   Last week, Lockheed received two more production contracts
valued at $7.8 billion for 71 F-35 jets, a program that has been
criticized by lawmakers for its rising costs.  During a budget impasse, the military doesn’t have to stop
awarding contracts. It can use money appropriated by lawmakers
in prior years.  Daily Notices  The Defense Department typically announces awards each
business day at 5 p.m. on its website and in an e-mail that goes
to subscribers. It stopped those notices on the first day of the
shutdown.  Since Oct. 1, some defense awards notices have appeared in
a government database called  Federal Business Opportunities ,
available at www.fbo.gov.  It’s unclear whether all awards of $6.5 million or more
have been posted there. In the past, the military’s announcement
of awards through the website has been inconsistent, Burton
said.  Contracting specialists say they are concerned about the
lack of transparency in Pentagon spending during the partial
shutdown.  “For the public not to know for days, and perhaps even a
number of weeks, about large-scale contract spending is anathema
to open government,” said Charles Tiefer, a former member of
the U.S. Commission on Wartime Contracting and now a law
professor at the University of Baltimore. “This is a form of
secret contracting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  