-- Philippine Three-Year Bond Yield Rises as Inflation Accelerates
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-10-04T09:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/philippine-three-year-bond-yield-rises-as-inflation-accelerates.html
The  Philippines ’ three-year bond
yield rose, halting a two-day fall, as the government reported
inflation accelerated to a three-month high. The peso advanced.  Consumer prices  advanced 2.7 percent in September from a
year earlier, the most since June, and surpassing the 2.4
percent median estimate from economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
the statistics office said. Inflation remains manageable over
the policy horizon and monetary settings continue to be
appropriate, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando
Tetangco said in a mobile-phone message today.  “Some investors may be thinking that inflation has turned
a corner and while it remains well within target, people will be
watching it more closely,” said Lito Mercado, head of trading
at  Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. (RCB)  in  Manila . “A rate hike
toward the second half of next year is not out of the
question.”  The yield on the 7 percent bonds due September 2016 rose 16
basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 2.5 percent,
according to Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp.’s average yield
of done trades today. The rate fell 6 basis points this week.  The peso gained 0.1 percent to 43.05 per dollar at the
close in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It rose 0.7
percent this week. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, was
little changed today at 6.27 percent.  The peso, stocks and bonds advanced yesterday after Moody’s
Investors Service raised the Philippines’ credit rating to
investment grade with a positive outlook.  ‘Remain Watchful’  “The BSP will remain watchful of both local and global
developments, including the impact of the resolution of the
issues surrounding the U.S. debt ceiling on financial market
volatilities in the near term and the real economy in the medium
term,” Tetangco said today.  The central bank will probably keep interest rates steady
this year and next, “barring any unforeseen shocks,” he said
in an Oct. 2 interview. The $250 billion economy will likely
expand more than 7 percent this year, Tetangco said this week.
Bangko Sentral expects inflation to be within the 3 percent to 5
percent target in 2013 and 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  