-- Pirates Beat Cardinals 7-1 Behind Rookie Pitcher Gerrit Cole
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-10-04T20:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/pirates-beat-cardinals-7-1-behind-rookie-pitcher-gerrit-cole.html
Gerrit Cole allowed two hits in six
innings and Pedro Alvarez hit a home run as the Pittsburgh
Pirates beat the St. Louis Cardinals 7-1 to even their division
playoff series at a game apiece.  With all four Major League Baseball playoff series in
action today, Starling Marte also hit a homer and  Russell Martin 
drove in two runs for the Pirates in their win at Busch Stadium
in St. Louis, tying the best-of-five matchup following a 9-1
defeat yesterday.  Pittsburgh opened the scoring in the second inning after a
misplay by Cardinals center fielder Jon Jay, who initially moved
forward on a drive by Alvarez before the ball sailed over his
head for a ground-rule double. Alvarez later scored on single to
center by Cole.  Alvarez hit a two-run homer to center in the third inning
to give Pittsburgh a 3-0 lead, and the Pirates added two more
runs in the fifth, scoring on consecutive doubles by Justin Morneau and Marlon Byrd before St. Louis starter Lance Lynn was
pulled from the game. Seth Maness took Lynn’s place, allowing a
single to Martin that scored Byrd.  The Cardinals’ lone run came on a fifth-inning homer to
right-center field by catcher Yadier Molina, while Marte’s
eighth-inning home run off of Shelby Miller completed the
scoring.  Cole, a 23-year-old rookie, gave up two hits in the win,
striking out five with one walk in his playoff debut.  Lynn took the loss, allowing five earned runs on seven hits
while striking out six and walking three.  In the other NL playoff game today, the Los Angles Dodgers
host the  Atlanta Braves  while holding a 1-0 lead in their
series. Both American League division series begin today, with
the  Boston Red Sox  hosting the Tampa Bay Rays and the  Detroit
Tigers  visiting the  Oakland Athletics .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  