-- PNG Said in Funding Talks With Citigroup, Barclays on Oil Search
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-10-04T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/png-said-in-funding-talks-with-citigroup-barclays-on-oil-search.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  are among banks seeking to provide more than A$1.5 billion
($1.4 billion) in financing to help Papua New Guinea maintain
its holding in  Oil Search Ltd. (OSH) , people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Lenders have been presenting options to the Pacific
nation’s government on how to fund the repurchase of
exchangeable bonds backed by its Oil Search stake it sold in
2008, said the people, asking not to be identified because the
discussions are private. The country is close to picking a bank,
one of the people said.  Papua New Guinea raised A$1.68 billion from International
Petroleum Investment Co., an Abu Dhabi-owned investment fund, by
selling bonds that can be exchanged for its 14.7 percent stake
in Port Moresby-based Oil Search. The proceeds were used to
finance the government’s share of a liquefied natural gas
project being developed by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   The $19 billion LNG venture is more than 90 percent
complete and is expected to start shipments to Asia next year,
Exxon said last month. The U.S. company owns 33 percent of the
project, while Oil Search holds 29 percent and the Papua New
Guinea government owns about 17 percent.  Santos Ltd. (STO) , JX Nippon
Oil & Gas Exploration and a local landowners’ group are also
among partners in the venture.  Peter Botten, managing director of Oil Search, was
traveling and unavailable to comment. Spokesmen for Barclays,
Citigroup and UBS declined to comment. Daniel Korimbao, a
spokesman to Papua New Guinea Prime Minister Peter O’Neill,
didnt’t reply to messages seeking comment.  Conversion Terms  The bonds are convertible into 196.6 million shares of Oil
Search in March 2014, according to an IPIC filing in June. That
means Papua New Guinea receives the equivalent of A$8.55 a
share, company filings show. Oil Search closed at A$8.39 in
Sydney trading yesterday, valuing the stake at A$1.65 billion.  Botten told analysts in August that the Papua New Guinea
government was preparing a plan to finance the repurchase of the
convertible bonds and was in discussions with Abu Dhabi
officials.  Papua New Guinea’s debt is rated B1 by Moody’s and B+ by
Standard & Poor’s, four levels below investment grade. The
country’s gross domestic product was about $15.7 billion in
2012, or about $2,200 per capita, according to the World Bank.  IPIC’s holdings include stakes in  Austria ’s  OMV AG (OMV) ,
refineries in Spain and  Japan  and chemical companies in North
America and Europe, according to its  website . The fund plans to
spend as much as $4.5 billion to build a fuel-processing plant
in Fujairah in the United Arab Emirates and $3 billion on
another one in neighboring Oman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  