-- Potbelly Jumps in Trading Debut After $105 Million IPO
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-10-04T20:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/potbelly-jumps-in-trading-debut-after-105-million-ipo.html
Potbelly Corp. (PBPB) , the Chicago-based
purveyor of made-to-order toasted sandwiches, more than doubled
in trading after pricing its IPO above an increased range,
highlighting investors’ appetite for growing restaurant chains.  The  shares  surged 120 percent to $30.77 at the close in New
York, the second-best trading debut on a U.S. exchange this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company and
existing stockholders sold 7.5 million shares for $14 each,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, after offering them for
$12 to $13. The company raised the range Oct. 2 after initially
setting it at $9 to $11.  Potbelly has been expanding in cities from  Portland ,
 Oregon , to New York and expects to open as many as 35 new shops
this year, according to its prospectus. The company plans to use
proceeds from the offering to support this growth, in addition
to funding a dividend and paying back loans.  “It’s probably a scarcity kind of thing,” Peter Saleh, a
New York-based analyst at Telsey Advisory Group, said in an
interview. “This is a fast-casual operator, and there aren’t
many of them” that are publicly traded.  The company, which operates more than 90 percent of its
stores, has a lot of opportunity to grow by franchising more and
opening additional locations overseas, he said.  Noodles & Co. (NDLS) , the first U.S. restaurant IPO this year,
also more than doubled in its June trading debut. The shares
advanced 139 percent from the offering through yesterday.  The Bloomberg U.S. Quick Service Restaurant Index, which
includes companies such as McDonald’s Corp. and  Yum! Brands
Inc. (YUM) , advanced 35 percent this year through yesterday, almost
double the 18 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Antiques Store  Potbelly began in 1977 as an antiques store that provided
sandwiches and desserts to customers to boost sales. Revenue was
$146.9 million in the first six months of 2013, an increase of
12 percent from a year ago, the filing shows. It had 280
company-operated shops as of June 30 and plans to increase its
store count by about 10 percent each year, Chief Executive
Officer Aylwin Lewis said in a telephone interview.  “The vast part of our growth will be with company
capital,” he said. “We do have a nascent franchise program
that we’ve started, and that will grow, but the bulk of the
growth will come from company units.”  The company sold 7.35 million shares, according to the
original terms of the prospectus, while existing stockholders
including affiliates of William Blair & Co. sold the rest. The
shares sold are equivalent to about a 27 percent stake in the
company. The company’s market capitalization was $861.8 million
at the close today.  Paying Dividend  Potbelly plans to use the funds from the offering to pay a
$49.9 million dividend on shares of common and preferred stock
outstanding on the day before the offering closes, according to
the filing. Executive  officers , directors and owners will
receive about 86 percent of the dividend.  Bank of America Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. led the
IPO. The shares are listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under
PBPB.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  