-- Pound Weakens Versus Dollar as Rate Speculation Wanes
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-10-04T15:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/pound-weakens-second-day-versus-dollar-as-rate-speculation-wanes.html
The pound declined for a second day
against the dollar, after reaching a nine-month high this week,
amid speculation the economic recovery isn’t strong enough to
warrant an early interest-rate increase.  Britain’s currency dropped at least 0.4 percent versus all
of its 16 major peers as Bank of America Merrill Lynch said
sterling’s recent strength “is likely to subside.” Bank of
England policy makers, who meet next week, have said they will
keep interest rates at a record low at least until unemployment
falls to 7 percent. U.K. government bonds fell with Treasuries
amid speculation U.S. lawmakers will resolve a budget standoff,
damping demand for safer assets.  “Some of the momentum in the early rate hike argument has
been lost,” said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International in  London . “There’s realism coming
through because the pound has strengthened so much and there are
obvious headwinds facing the economy. People are taking off some
of their long positions, in case we see a negative shock,” she
said, referring to bets an asset will gain.  The pound dropped 0.5 percent to $1.6069 at 4:39 p.m.
London time after rising to $1.6260 on Oct. 1, the highest level
since Jan. 2. The U.K. currency weakened 0.4 percent to 84.59
pence per euro, having fallen 1 percent this week.  Sterling jumped 4.4 percent versus the dollar in September
as improving economic data prompted investors to increase bets
the Bank of England will raise borrowing costs earlier than it
has predicted. Services activity expanded last month and house
prices climbed, reports showed this week.  ‘Really Growing’  “We’re not going to begin to think about raising interest
rates or tightening monetary policy until we see the conditions
in the economy where the economy is really growing,” central
bank Governor Mark Carney said in an interview with ITV Anglia
broadcast on Oct. 2.  The Bank of England will keep its benchmark rate at 0.5
percent and leave its asset-purchase target at 375 billion
pounds when it announces its next policy decision on Oct. 10,
Bloomberg News surveys show.  “Growth expectations from leading indicators are extremely
high and unlikely to be sustained in the medium term,” Bank of
America economist Nick Bate and strategist Naeem Wahid in London
wrote today in a research note to clients. “Similarly, the
ability of economic data to positively surprise is also
declining. This suggests that the recent outperformance of
sterling is coming to an end.”  Surprise Index  Citigroup Inc.’s Economic Surprise Index for the U.K. fell
to 49.60 yesterday, the lowest since Aug. 1. The gauge, which
shows whether data beat or fell short of forecasts, climbed to a
nine-month high of 113.30 on Aug. 19. It was at 50 today.  The pound fell 0.9 percent this week, the worst performer
of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar dropped 0.4 percent,
while the euro rose 0.2 percent.  A bipartisan group of U.S. lawmakers is proposing to House
Republican and Democratic leaders a compromise to end the
stalemate that has caused a partial government shutdown. Policy
makers also face a debate over raising the federal debt limit,
which the Treasury has said will be reached on Oct. 17.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year gilt climbed six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.73 percent after falling
to 2.67 percent on Sept. 30, the lowest since Aug. 27. The 2.25
percent bond due in September 2023 dropped 0.47, or 4.70 pounds
per 1,000-pound face amount, to 95.825.  Gilts lost 2.6 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bunds dropped
1.6 percent and Treasuries fell 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  