-- Puerto Rico Record Yields Luring Buyers of Distress: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-10-04T17:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/puerto-rico-record-yields-luring-buyers-of-distress-muni-credit.html
Puerto Rico’s record-high yields are
attracting investors who typically buy the riskiest municipal
debt, in a sign of how dire the island’s finances have become as
it prepares to borrow as much as $1.2 billion by year-end.  As the commonwealth’s leaders struggle to revive a
shrinking economy and keep the territory’s debt above junk,
yields have risen enough that  hedge funds , which aren’t
traditional municipal investors, have been buying, according to
Matt Fabian at Municipal Market Advisors. Jon Schotz, who
focuses on defaulted munis at Kayne Anderson Capital Advisors
LP, which oversees about $23 billion, said he’s analyzing the
island’s obligations for a possible purchase.  Puerto Rico, whose debt is tax-exempt nationwide, must
borrow by Dec. 31 to balance its budget. Officials plan on using
bonds backed by sales-tax revenue, as the securities are rated
three to four levels above the island’s general obligations.
Even the sales-tax securities, which Moody’s Investors Service
cut yesterday, trade with historically high yields.  “It’s certainly more interesting than it was before,”
said Schotz, a co-managing partner who oversees more than $300
million of distressed munis in  Los Angeles . While “they’ve
demonstrated willingness to pay over the years,” they will be
challenged to find sufficient buyers going forward, he said.  A  Puerto Rico  general-obligation bond maturing in 2041
traded today with a yield as high as 10.06 percent, the most
since Sept. 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Forced Selling’  “Forced selling in local island bond markets have added
stress to overall trading, with nontraditional investors such as
hedge funds entering the market at recently distressed prices,”
Alan Schankel, managing director at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
in Philadelphia, said in a research note today. “Volatility and
price pressures remain ongoing for Puerto Rico bonds.”  The new category of investors is buying as the
commonwealth’s debt has lost about 17 percent in 2013, on pace
for the worst year since at least 2000, according to  Standard &
Poor’s . Puerto Rico and its agencies have about $70 billion of
debt, data from the island’s Government  Development Bank  show.
National and state-specific mutual funds hold the securities for
their tax benefits.  Shrinking Economy  For Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 42, who took office
in January, the bond sell-off magnifies the challenge of a
contracting economy. An index that measures the commonwealth’s
economy fell 5.4 percent in August from a year earlier, the
biggest decline since 2010, according to the development bank,
which handles the island’s capital-market transactions.  More than $1 billion of the $9.77 billion budget for the
fiscal year that began July 1 relies on new tax measures. So
far, revenue is on track. The territory collected $968 million
of net general-fund revenue in July and August, $12 million
above budget, according to Treasury Secretary Melba Acosta.  Garcia Padilla, of the Popular Democratic Party, is
tackling recurring budget shortfalls and has enacted laws
boosting the  retirement age  and workers’ pension contributions.
Puerto Rico’s pension system has a funding level below that of
any U.S. state.  Moody’s affirmed the commonwealth’s Baa3 general-obligation
rating yesterday, calling the administration’s fiscal steps
“significant.” At the same time, it lowered $6.8 billion of
sales-tax borrowings two steps to A2, sixth-highest, citing a
weak economy.  Buying Time  “They’ve bought themselves a couple of years” with the
pension and budget steps, Guy Davidson, who helps manage $31
billion as director of munis at AllianceBernstein LP in  New
York , said at an Oct. 1 media presentation. “But in the end
they have to grow.”  The fiscal stress has made Puerto Rico the $3.7 trillion
municipal market’s worst performer. Its 2013 loss is six times
as steep as declines in the rest of the market.  Sales-tax bonds maturing August 2042 traded yesterday with
an average yield of 7.5 percent, the highest ever, Bloomberg
data show. The yield spread over benchmark munis was 3.3
percentage points, the most since July 29.  For investors in the highest income bracket, that’s a
taxable-equivalent yield of about 12 percent.  “You can’t find anything for that type of credit in the
taxable market that’s equivalent,” said Michael Walls, who
helps manage $2 billion of high-yield munis at  Waddell & Reed
Financial Inc. (WDR) , based in  Overland Park ,  Kansas .  Lawmakers are working on legislation that would increase
the percent of revenue directed to repay the island’s sales-tax
bonds to 3.5 percent from 2.75 percent as part of the plan to
refinance debt.  Island Progress  The plan to use sales-tax bonds “marks another step
forward in Puerto Rico’s progress,” Acosta said yesterday in a
statement.  “This administration has implemented a number of very
significant measures to support sustainable economic growth
through  job creation  and continued progress towards a balanced
budget,” Acosta and Jose Pagan, the development bank’s interim
president, said in a separate statement.  The declines in the debt may not be over. Yields may rise
as much as another 2 percentage points on some bonds because of
the island’s faltering economy and debt levels, said  Peter Hayes , head of munis at New York-based BlackRock Inc., which
oversees $109 billion of local debt.  “It’s a dire situation in terms of the amount of debt they
have outstanding, the weakness in their economy,” Hayes said
yesterday on  Bloomberg Radio .  Debt Limit  Demand from hedge funds and distressed-debt investors may
help Puerto Rico because some high-yield muni buyers are limited
in how much commonwealth debt they can hold. While Walls has
been increasing holdings in the past month, he’d like to add
more.  “We’ve seen opportunities,” Walls said. “Some we’ve
taken advantage of and some we can’t take advantage of at these
attractive yields as much as we would like to. I have to make
sure I manage my cash for potential redemptions.”  Municipal interest rates have been little changed this week
close to a three-month low as the partial shutdown of the
nation’s government extended to a third day.  Top-rated 10-year munis yield about  2.72 percent , compared
with  2.6 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a measure of relative value, is
about 105 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
federal securities.  Following is a pending sale:  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board is offering
about $113.5 million in general-obligation debt to finance loans
to college and university students, with pricing of the issue
set for Oct. 8, according to Bloomberg data. The sale will be by
competitive bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  