-- Real’s Turnaround Seen Fleeting as Brazil Bewilders: Currencies
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-10-04T11:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/real-s-turnaround-seen-fleeting-as-brazil-bewilders-currencies.html
For the world’s biggest foreign-exchange trader, the Brazilian real’s 11 percent rally from a 4
1/2-year low is just another reason to sell one of the “bad
apples” of emerging-market currencies.  Deutsche Bank AG says a possible credit-rating downgrade
and  Brazil ’s biggest current-account deficit in 11 years will
cause the real to reverse recent gains. Speculators agree, with
bearish bets on the currency doubling in a month on  Latin
America ’s main stock exchange to a record $20 billion this week.  “It’s a good time to put the trade back on,” Daniel Brehon, a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank in  New York , said
in an Oct. 2 phone interview. “Brazil is the most vulnerable in
the region.”  While the real received a boost from the  Federal Reserve ’s
surprise Sept. 18 decision to maintain unprecedented monetary
stimulus, it has still weakened versus 13 of the 16 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg this year. That’s confounding
the efforts of President  Dilma Rousseff  to soften its drop and
bring down the highest  inflation expectations  in nine years
through a $60 billion currency intervention program.  Alan Ruskin , Deutsche Bank’s New York-based global head of
Group-of-10 foreign exchange, recommends using options to sell
the real against the dollar.  Biggest Advance  Along with the Turkish lira and Malaysian ringgit, Ruskin
labeled the currencies as “bad apples” in a Sept. 25 report,
saying rising global interest rates will damp growth in
countries that experienced  “exuberant” lending , which risks
increasing the current-account deficit. He said the eventual end
of the Fed’s monetary stimulus program will keep emerging-market
currencies including the real “under pressure.”  The real climbed to 2.2069 per dollar yesterday in New
York, from 2.4549 on Aug. 21, the weakest level since December
2008. It gained the most of 16 major currencies in the past
month, paring its decline this year to 7 percent, still on pace
for a third-straight annual loss.  For a decade through 2010, Brazil, Latin America’s largest
economy, embodied the growing power of developing nations along
with  China , India and  Russia , together labeled the BRIC nations.
Growth started to sputter in 2011 as a slowdown in China reduced
demand for Brazilian commodities including iron ore and
soybeans, while Rousseff administration’s increased meddling in
the economy sapped investors’ confidence.  Current-Account Gap  The real has tumbled 25 percent since Rousseff, a 65-year-old former Marxist guerrilla, took office in January 2011. Now,
facing re-election in October 2014, her challenge is to persuade
investors that Moody’s Investors Service was wrong when it
lowered its outlook on the nation’s sovereign rating this week.  Morgan Stanley said the real may be hurt by a “further
deterioration in external and fiscal accounts,” as well as the
potential for Brazil to reduce its currency intervention program
to protect exporters, according to an Oct. 2 report by Rashique Rahman, the firm’s head of emerging-market strategy in New York.  The  deficit  in Brazil’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade, jumped to 3.6 percent of gross domestic
product in August, the most since 2002, Bloomberg data show. The
shortfall leaves the country more dependent on foreign capital.  Money flowing out of Brazil as trade and investment totaled
$335 million this year through Sept. 27, after the country
attracted $16.8 billion in 2012 and $65 billion in 2011, central
bank data show.  Outlook Cut  Moody’s cut Brazil’s Baa2 sovereign rating -- two levels
above junk status -- to “stable” from “positive” on Oct. 2,
citing the nation’s deteriorating debt and investment ratios and
evidence the economy is going through a period of slow growth.  Brazil’s economy expanded less than forecast by analysts in
five of the past six quarters and the central bank trimmed its
2013 growth outlook to 2.5 percent from 2.7 percent this week.
That’s down from 7.6 percent in 2010, and Moody’s said it would
consider cutting the country’s credit rating if it fell into a
“low growth trap” of sub-3 percent expansions beyond 2014.  While annualized  inflation  cooled to a nine-month low of
5.93 percent through mid-September, that may prove short-lived
as a weaker  exchange rate  pushes up the cost of imports.  Consumer prices will increase 6.21 percent over the next 12
months, matching the highest  expectations  since 2004, according
to a central bank survey of economists on Sept. 27. Brazil
targets inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage
points.  Street Protests  Soaring inflation was one of the triggers that led more
than 1 million Brazilians to take to the streets in June in the
country’s biggest demonstrations in two decades. The same month,
 Standard & Poor’s  put Brazil’s BBB rating, equivalent to its
Moody’s grade, on “negative outlook,” citing “weaker” fiscal
policy and a deterioration in the government’s credibility.  “When S&P did the move back in June, we already knew that
it’s only a matter of time that Moody’s would take out that
positive outlook,” Kenneth Lam, a New York-based Latin America
strategist at Citigroup Inc., the second-biggest currency
trader, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Brazil’s
deteriorating economic matrix has been very well known and been
priced in” to the real, he said.  Citigroup in August forecast a level of 2.32 reais per
dollar by year-end, which made it more pessimistic than the
median estimate in a Bloomberg analyst survey, which sees
Brazil’s currency ending 2013 at 2.3 per dollar. In June, the
median estimate was for a year-end level of 2 per dollar.  Futures Bets  The value of futures contracts betting that the real will
decline versus the dollar was $18.6 billion on Oct. 2, up from
$10.9 billion at the end of August, based on data compiled by
Sao Paulo-based BM&FBovespa SA, Brazil’s largest stock exchange.  As recently as June, foreign investors had more bets that
the real would appreciate than depreciate, according to BM&F.
That has shifted as concern grew that rising U.S. bond yields
may siphon capital away from Brazil.  The real’s recovery has further to go as the central bank
raises interest rates and the economy recovers, said Viktor Szabo, who helps oversee $10 billion of emerging-market assets
as a portfolio manager at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc.  “Local rates are one of the most attractive in  emerging
markets ,” Szabo by phone from London Sept. 24.  At 11.73 percent, yields on Brazil’s 10-year government
bonds are the highest in the world after  Pakistan , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 2.63 percent for
 U.S. Treasuries (USGG10YR) , up from 1.61 percent on May 1.  Investors Skeptical  Brazil’s central bank has lifted the benchmark  interest
rate  by 1.75 percentage points this year to 9 percent, making it
more attractive to hold local assets.  Even as Rousseff pledged to dial back public lending and
cut spending twice this year, investors remain skeptical that
she will maintain fiscal discipline ahead of the election. The
government will miss its target of a  budget surplus  excluding
interest payments equal to 2.3 percent of GDP this year, which
was already lowered from 3.1 percent, Citigroup estimates.  With no sign of reforms that will improve productivity
before the 2014 vote, the real will decline as rising local
costs erode Brazilian industry’s competitiveness, according to
Marcela Meirelles, a strategist at TCW Group Inc., which
oversees $128 billion.  “At the current level, your potential downside is larger
than the upside,” Meirelles said in a phone interview from  Los
Angeles  on Sept. 24. “Brazil needs a weak currency to restore
its competitiveness if nothing is done on the reform side.”  Companies are among the losers of the weak real.  Gol Linhas
Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOL) , Brazil’s second-largest air carrier by
market value, is spending more on jet fuel than any other
airline its size in the Americas as the real’s decline boosts
imported fuel costs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sugar producer Grupo Virgolino de Oliveira SA’s debt costs have
risen for the same reason, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Companies hedging these risks weigh further on the real,
said Italo Lombardi, an economist at Standard Chartered Plc.  “The pressure is pretty high,” he said in a Sept. 26
phone interview from New York. “It’s not like this is over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  