-- Treasuries End Advance as U.S. Prepares Debt Sales
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-10-04T21:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/treasuries-fall-as-lawmakers-work-to-end-government-shutdown.html
Treasuries snapped a two-day advance
as the U.S. prepared to auction $64 billion of notes and bonds
next week and the partial shutdown of the government persisted
for a fourth day.  Benchmark 10-year note  yields rose  from almost a seven-week
low, trading in the tightest weekly range in almost six months.
One-month bill rates matched the highest level since 2009. House
Speaker  John Boehner  tried to unite Republicans on a plan to
reopen the government, raise the debt cap and achieve as many
political priorities as possible. The Treasury has said it will
exhaust measures to avoid exceeding the borrowing limit Oct. 17.  “The base case is no default, they’ll come to their
senses,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a Purchase, New York-based fixed-income strategist for Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. “There are a
lot of dominos that are affected by the government shutdown, but
in the near term it’s the debt ceiling that’s the focus.”  Ten-year U.S.  yields  climbed four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.65 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
Bloomberg Bond Trader data show. The price of the 2.5 percent
debt due August 2023 fell 11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000 face
amount, to 98 3/4. The yield increased two basis points this
 week , trading between 2.66 percent and 2.58 percent, the
narrowest range since April. The bottom of the range, reached
yesterday, was the lowest level since Aug. 12.  Rates on Treasury bills that mature Oct. 24 traded at 0.12
percent today, from negative 0.01 percent on Sept. 27, as
investors demanded extra compensation for the risk of holding
the securities.  Curve Inversion  Money managers are getting out of Treasuries maturing
closest to the debt-ceiling deadline and buying longer-maturity
bills, yields indicate. One-month rates touched 0.19 percent
today, matching a 45-month high reached in November 2012, while
the rate on  three-month  bills traded at 0.02 percent. The
inversion of the  spread  was the biggest since September 2008.  “If you have one of these things and it’s maturing in the
middle of October, at the end of October, you really don’t know
what’s going to happen,” said Robert Tipp, chief investment
strategist in  Newark ,  New Jersey , for Prudential Financial
Inc.’s fixed-income division, which oversees $395 billion in
bonds. “That’s a far cry from riskless storehouse of nominal
U.S. dollar value with unquestioned  credit quality  and 24-hour
liquidity.”  Treasury Auctions  The U.S. will auction $30 billion of three-year notes on
Oct. 8, $21 billion of 10-year debt on Oct. 9 and $13 billion of
30-year bonds on Oct. 10.  House Republicans  are divided between those who insist on
confrontation over the 2010 health-care law, President  Barack
Obama ’s signature legislative achievement, and those who say
they would support Senate Democrats’ spending bill. That measure
would end the shutdown without conditions attached. Boehner told
reporters today the way to reopen the government is for
Democrats to negotiate and accept changes to the health law.  The House speaker has been telling fellow Republicans he
won’t allow the U.S. to default on its debt, even if that
requires Democratic votes, according to two Republican
congressional aides. Party leaders were trying to package other
Republican priorities with an increase of the $16.7 trillion
debt-ceiling for a vote as soon as next week. The House will
remain in session for a second straight weekend.  The “catastrophic” consequences of a default should the
U.S. not raise the debt limit could lower investment and slower
growth and may last for more than a generation, the Treasury
Department said yesterday in a  report .  Bond Insurance  Credit-default swaps insuring against losses on U.S.
Treasuries almost doubled this week as the deadline for raising
the nation’s $16.7 trillion debt limit approaches. The cost of
one-year contracts jumped to 62 basis points from 33 basis
points, according to date provider CMA, with the four-day
partial government shutdown showing no sign of ending.  Trade volumes are also climbing, with swaps on Treasuries
the 15th most active of 1,000 entities tracked by the Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp. in the week through Sept. 27, up from
147th the previous period.  If the debt ceiling is reached, the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association expects the Treasury will do day-to-day maturity extensions for securities and can’t redeem and
coupon payments it can’t make, Rob Toomey, a trade-group
official, said on a conference call.  The alternative to raising the debt limit “would be too
awful to contemplate,” said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
and co-chief investment officer at Pacific Investment Management
Co., the world’s biggest manager of bond mutual funds. Most
investors think a default will be avoided, he said on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu .  ‘Some Realism’  “If the debt ceiling gets taken hostage by politicians,
you will see a much different reaction,” El-Erian said from
Pimco’s headquarters in  Newport Beach ,  California . “The market
expects as we get closer to Oct. 17 some realism will start
occurring on  Capitol Hill  and politicians will avoid what
potentially could be quite catastrophic both for the U.S. and
the global economy.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index is little changed
this month, after gaining 0.9 percent in September, which was
the first increase since April. It has lost 2.4 percent this
year, compared with a 2.7 percent drop in the Bloomberg Global
Developed Sovereign Bond Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  