-- Recession Continues for Classrooms as School Funding Lags
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-10-04T04:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/recession-continues-for-classrooms-as-school-funding-lags.html
As she hands out student papers to
juniors in her English class at Nathan Hale High School in
Tulsa, Oklahoma, teacher Jessica West tells them she needs their
help grading.  She has 216 students this year, up from 150 in past years.
One class has 39. “I just realized, time-wise, I can’t do it on
my own,” she said.  Tulsa’s public-school class sizes have swollen after state
education cuts that linger amid the economic recovery. Oklahoma
is one of 34 states spending less per pupil in kindergarten
through 12th grade this year than six years ago, when adjusted
for inflation, the Washington-based Center on Budget & Policy
Priorities said in a  report . Oklahoma’s 23 percent reduction was
deepest, followed by  Alabama ,  Arizona  and  Kansas .  “It is a recipe for massive, wasted human potential,”
said Jonah Edelman, founder and chief executive officer of  Stand
for Children , a Washington-based public-education advocacy
group. “It is a diminishment in the quality of K-12 education
at a time when students need to make it to post-secondary
education to get a decent-paying job.”  Facing declining revenue in the longest recession since the
1930s, states closed cumulative budget gaps of $600 billion in
the five years that ended in fiscal 2012, according to an April
 report  by the budget center. As the largest cost in many state
budgets, school spending took a hit. U.S. school districts have
cut 324,000 jobs since 2008, according to the center.  Consecutive Deficits  Oklahoma  faced two consecutive years of billion-dollar
deficits, Governor Mary Fallin said. This year, the state’s
spending about $200 million less on per-pupil formula funding
for public schools than in fiscal 2008, or about $1.84 billion.
State revenue has rebounded to pre-recession levels,
unemployment is down to 5.3 percent, the state’s reserve fund
swelled to as much as $577 million and Fallin pushed for and
signed a series of tax cuts.  “My goal has been to grow the economy so that we will have
more money to put towards important priorities of the state, and
education is one of our top priorities,” said Fallin, a
Republican who took office in 2011, in an interview in her
Oklahoma City office.  While cutting education, Fallin and lawmakers set new
requirements for schools aimed at increasing teacher
accountability and boosting academic achievement. This year,
lawmakers raised state spending on K-12 education by $74
million, mostly for the new mandates and rising benefit costs.  Finding Efficiencies  Fallin, who has made education and workforce development
the focus of her term as chair of the  National Governors
Association , said she believes efficiencies can be found
throughout government, including in education. Funding levels
don’t always equal success, she said.  “An important part of education is not only looking at
funding, but also looking at outcomes,” she said, pointing to
the state’s national math test scores, which have held steady
even as funding fell. She said she doesn’t know whether she will
seek to increase school financing next year.  “We’ve really focused on education reforms, making sure
that we raise our academic standards, that we require rigor in
the classroom, that we have the best teachers possible,” Fallin
said.  Schools should be more efficient, be pickier in the
teachers they hire and use more technology for classroom
instruction, said Michael Petrilli, executive vice president of
the Fordham Institute, a Washington-based policy group that
supports school choice and greater accountability in education.  Money-Pumpers  “We haven’t had a system that has been very good in using
dollars effectively,” Petrilli said. “There are places that
have pumped in a lot of money and haven’t seen very good
results, and places that have learned to do things with less
money.”  The cuts may be undermining education reform efforts, said
Michael Leachman, director of state fiscal research for the
Center on Budget and author of its school report. More rigorous
standards and adequate funding should go hand-in-hand, he said.  “Cutting your basic state aid is very damaging to your
ability to produce a well-educated workforce for the future and
that has major implications to your state economy,” Leachman
said. “You can’t slash funding for your schools and expect them
to achieve higher standards at the same time. It just doesn’t
make sense.”  Across the country, many schools are doing more with less -
- or just doing less. Arizona ended its support for all-day
kindergarten in 2010, dismantling an initiative by former
Democratic Governor  Janet Napolitano , the former Homeland
Security secretary who is now president of the  University of
California .  Inflation Adjustment  The Arizona Supreme Court ruled last week that lawmakers
must increase financing for schools each year for inflation, a
voter mandate that lawmakers had ignored during the downturn.  In Alabama, where total education spending has fallen by
more than $1 billion since 2008, the state no longer pays most
busing costs for districts, reducing support by more than $4
million. In Hoover, a suburb of Birmingham, the school board
voted this summer to cut bus service entirely beginning next
school year, except for special-education students.  The move, which parents protested would hurt the poorest
families most, will free up more than $2.5 million a year that
will go toward classrooms and deficit reduction, according to a
 memo  on the school system’s website. That’s not an option for a
larger district like Jefferson County, with 36,000 students
around Birmingham, said county Superintendent Stephen Nowlin.  ‘Tough’ Choices  “Since we can’t cut out bus service, we have to take $4
million from somewhere else in our budget,” he said. “We’re
going to have to make some tough budget choices next year.”  In Tulsa, state support for the 40,000-student district
fell to $151 million in 2012-2013 from $168.5 million in
2007-2008. The school system, which grew by more than 2,000
students during that time, expects to lose another $1 million in
aid this year, finance director Joe Stoeppelwerth said.  To deal with the reduction, the district closed 14 schools,
getting rid of traditional middle schools entirely,
Superintendent Keith Ballard said. It cut 250 teaching positions
and 150 administrative and support jobs. Private donations and
an insurance settlement are helping sustain dozens of other
teacher posts, he said.  Electives Disappear  In high schools, many advanced placement classes and
electives have disappeared. Some classes have swelled to more
than 40 students as administrators try to keep lower numbers in
courses needed for graduation tests, Hale Principal Caleb Starr
said.  That’s pushed some trade-offs: In a biology classroom where
Bunsen burners line the perimeter, the gas has been shut off
because it was deemed too dangerous after extra tables were
added to accommodate 34 students.  “The lack of funds and requirements -- it pinches you at
both ends,” Starr said.  In Tulsa’s elementary schools, some classes have 30
students -- 10 more than the state allowed before the economic
downturn.  “It’s a challenge to meet the individual needs of each
student,” said Marion Munchinski, who sends some of her third-grade students to another class for an hour so she can work more
closely with those who need extra help learning to read. “There
are not enough hours in the day to do it when you have so many
kids.”  As many as 20 percent of third-graders may fail a new state
reading test required to advance, Ballard said.  Cooper Elementary in East Tulsa has three teacher openings,
including one for the third grade. Principal Joy Modenbach said
she’s having such a hard time finding candidates to interview
that she recently tried to recruit her waiter while dining out.
He was wearing a University of Oklahoma ring and said he’d been
an education major.  Low Pay  At $44,128, the average annual salary for Oklahoma’s
teachers last school year was the third-lowest in the nation,
behind  South Dakota  and  Mississippi , according to the  National
Education Association . The national average was $56,383.  Low pay is partly to blame for a statewide teacher shortage
that has hit crisis levels, Oklahoma Superintendent Janet Barresi said. She’s asked school districts to dig into their
reserves and find efficiencies to increase salaries.  A month and a half into the new school year, Tulsa Public
Schools have almost 40 vacancies out of 2,400 positions. In some
schools, classes are regularly taught by substitutes.  Ballard said there are no more efficiency savings to be
had.  “We didn’t complain when the recession hit: we cut and
cut,” Ballard said. “We were resourceful, we did what we
could. My biggest shock was when the dollars came back, why
didn’t we put it in education?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Tulsa, Oklahoma at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  