-- Reed Smith Partner Named PNC Top Lawyer: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-10-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/reed-smith-partner-named-pnc-top-lawyer-business-of-law.html
PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (PNC) 
appointed Gregory B. Jordan general counsel and head of
regulatory and government affairs.  Jordan, currently the global managing partner and chairman
of the senior management team and executive committee of  Reed
Smith  LLP, will also join the executive committee of Pittsburgh-based PNC. He replaces Bob Hoyt, who left PNC last month to
become group general counsel at  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets. Jordan will join PNC Oct. 15.  William S. Demchak, PNC’s president and chief executive
officer, said in a statement that Jordan’s leadership “helped
make Reed Smith a top global firm, and he has extensive banking
experience, having represented many of the largest U.S.
financial institutions in significant court cases.”  Jordan joined Reed Smith after graduating from the
 University of Pittsburgh  School of Law in 1984, and he was
elected the firm’s managing partner five times. In 13 years of
leading Reed Smith, Jordan helped quadruple its size to 1,800
lawyers in 25 offices worldwide. He serves on several boards and
is chairman of the Board of Trustees of Bethany College, from
which he received his bachelor’s degree.  Alexander “Sandy” Thomas, the global chairman of
litigation at Reed Smith, will succeed Jordan as global managing
partner.  Law Firm Moves  Steptoe & Johnson Gets Tax Partner From O’Melveny & Myers  Robert Rizzi is joining Steptoe & Johnson LLP as a partner
in the firm’s tax group. He will be based in Steptoe’s
Washington office, and will also work in the office in New York.  According to a statement from the firm, Rizzi focuses on
the federal and state income tax aspects of corporate and
partnership business transactions, including mergers and
acquisitions, reorganizations, joint ventures and workouts, as
well as tax advice on executive compensation plans and equity
participation arrangements.  He has provided tax planning for major transactions,
principally in international markets, in a variety of
industries, including telecommunications, financial services,
real estate and hospitality, and technology, and he has provided
tax advice and structuring for mid-market and private-equity
transactions in the U.S. and abroad.  Rizzi also helped prospective political appointees through
the executive branch vetting process, Senate confirmation, and
post-confirmation ethics, compliance and tax advice. His clients
have included cabinet and subcabinet members, administrators and
commissioners at various agencies, and numerous ambassadorial
appointees in both Democratic and Republican administrations.  Steptoe’s tax group includes former senior government
officials from congressional offices, the  Internal Revenue
Service , Treasury Department and  Justice Department  who have
vast experience in sophisticated tax-planning, audit and
controversy work.  Rizzi teaches a course in government ethics at  Harvard Law
School . He has also taught at  Georgetown University Law Center 
and Catholic University Law School. He was previously a partner
at  O’Melveny & Myers LLP .  Clifford Chance Re-Elects Litigation and Dispute Resolution Head  The partners of  Clifford Chance  LLP elected Jeremy Sandelson to serve a second four-year term as global head of the
firm’s litigation and dispute resolution practice.  Sandelson became head of the practice in 2009. Before that,
he was regional managing partner for Clifford Chance in the U.K.
and the Middle East from 2005.  Managing partner David Childs said in a statement that
Sandelson “has done a terrific job as global head of the firm’s
litigation and dispute resolution practice since his election
soon after the start of the financial crisis, overseeing revenue
growth of nearly 30 percent in that time.”  Bracewell & Giuliani Adds Public Finance Lawyers in San Antonio  Four public finance attorneys are joining the San Antonio
office of Bracewell & Giuliani.  The attorneys -- Jane H. Macon, Michael D. Bernard, Blakely
L. Fernandez and William T. Avila -- will join as partners,
working in public finance, public law, corporate law and
litigation. Macon is the chairman of  Siebert Financial Corp. (SIEB)  and
Bernard is the San Antonio city attorney, a position he has held
since 2005.  “We have been looking to expand in San Antonio and Jane,
Michael, Blakely and Bill are strong additions, along with Carey
Troell, who joined us earlier this year,” partner Ben Brooks,
co-head of the public finance practice, said in a statement.  Kilpatrick Townsend Chooses Partners for Leadership Positions  Henry Walker, the managing partner of Kilpatrick Townsend &
Stockton LLP, was elected chairman of the firm. Partner Susan
Spaeth was chosen to serve as managing partner.  Walker succeeded Paul Aguggia, who recently announced that
he will become chairman and chief executive officer of longtime
Kilpatrick Townsend client Clifton Savings Bancorp. Aguggia will
remain with the firm as a partner until the end of the year, the
firm said in a statement.  The two lawyers “know this firm inside and out,” Aguggia
said. “Henry has been associated with Kilpatrick Townsend
either as a firm attorney or as a firm client for nearly 30
years and Susan for almost 25 years. I look forward to working
with them during this seamless transition period.”  Walker, a litigator based in Atlanta, became the firm’s
managing partner in 2012. He’s also active in the State Bar of
 Georgia , currently serving on the board of governors.  Spaeth, located in Silicon Valley, focuses on intellectual
property and complex and technical litigation, particularly
patent litigation, licensing and counseling.  Latham & Watkins Adds Corporate Partner in Hong Kong Office  Ji Liu is joining  Latham & Watkins  LLP as a partner in the
corporate department in Hong Kong. Liu focuses on U.S. domestic
and cross-border capital markets transactions and also
represents companies on compliance matters under U.S. securities
laws.  Liu advises on mergers and acquisitions, bank finance and
venture-capital investments as well as corporate governance.  “Pairing Ji’s unique combination of substantive
experience, knowledge and business relationships with colleagues
in our China offices and across the region is an exciting
development for our practice,” said  David Miles , chairman of
Latham & Watkins’s Asia practice.  Liu joins Latham & Watkins from Norton Rose Fulbright LLP
in Hong Kong.  Gibson Dunn Adds Real Estate Partner in New York  Steven Klein, a real estate attorney, joined Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP as a partner in the firm’s New York office. He
previously was a partner at Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP.  “Steve is a terrific addition to the firm and to our real
estate practice,” Ken Doran, the chairman and managing partner
of  Gibson Dunn , said in a statement. “He is an experienced and
talented lawyer, who is highly regarded by the real estate
community.”  Klein focuses on a broad range of real estate transactions,
including acquisitions and dispositions, joint ventures,
financings, leasing, construction and development,
restructurings and recapitalizations. He also has substantial
experience in REIT offerings, REIT mergers and formation of
investment funds.  Klein is also an adjunct professor at the New York
University Schack Institute of Real Estate, where he has taught
courses on commercial leasing, commercial real estate
transactions and real estate development and investment.  Deals  Latham, Wilson Sonsini on Monsanto Purchase of Data Firm  Lawyers from Latham & Watkins LLP and  Wilson Sonsini 
Goodrich & Rosati worked on  Monsanto Co. (MON) ’s $930 million purchase
of Climate Corp., a weather-monitoring and data-analytics
company that also sells crop insurance.  From Latham representing Monsanto are partners Luke Bergstrom in Silicon Valley and Hans Brigham in Boston. Also on
the deal are employee benefits and compensation partner Jay Metz
in Silicon Valley, intellectual property partner J.D. Marple in
Silicon Valley, privacy partner Jennifer Archie in Washington
and real estate partner Michelle Kelban in New York.  Wilson Sonsini represented Climate Corp. From the firm are
corporate/M&A partners Michael Ringler and Rachel Proffitt in
San Francisco, technology transactions partners Michael Murphy
in Palo Alto, California, and Parag Gheewala in Seattle,
antitrust partner Scott Sher in Washington, employee benefits
and compensation partner Scott McCall in Palo Alto, and tax
partner Ivan Humphreys, also in Palo Alto.  Closely held Climate Corp. was founded in 2006 by software
engineers and data scientists who previously worked at Google
Inc. and other Silicon Valley technology companies, St. Louis-based Monsanto said in a statement.  Using “hyper-local weather monitoring,” predictive models
and other data to help farmers make optimal growing decisions
can eventually boost corn yields by 30 bushels to 50 bushels an
acre, Climate Corp. Chief Executive Officer David Friedberg said
on a call with reporters Oct. 2. The company also helps farmers
save money by avoiding badly timed pesticide use, he said.  For more on the deal, click here.  Law Firm News  Morgan Lewis Settlement With Howrey Estate Gets Court Approval  A federal bankruptcy judge on Sept. 27 approved a $1.15
million settlement that Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP will pay to
the Howrey LLP estate, ending litigation over unfinished
business brought from the defunct firm.  Seven partners left Howrey before its dissolution and
transferred 96 different hourly client matters with them to
 Morgan Lewis , according to court documents filed with the
settlement.  The $1.15 million is one of the largest unfinished-business
payments the estate received as of August 2013 and equals 9
percent of the business brought from Howrey. In August, trustee
Allan Diamond settled an unfinished claim with Baker & Hostetler
LLP for $41 million.  The case is In re Howrey LLP, 11-31376,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  