-- Tropical Storm Karen Weakens During Drive for U.S. Coast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-10-05T11:56:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/tropical-storm-karen-maintains-strength-in-struggle-with-wind.html
Tropical Storm Karen weakened as it
began moving north in the  Gulf of Mexico  on a curving path
that’s expected to brush the Louisiana coast before the system
makes landfall near Pensacola,  Florida .  The storm, with sustained winds of 40 miles (65 kilometers)
per hour, was tracking north at about 10 mph some 155 miles
south of the port of Morgan City, Louisiana, shortly before 8
a.m.  New York  time, the National Hurricane Center said  in an
advisory.   Karen’s approach forced the shutdown of some Gulf oil and
natural gas operations. Forecasters earlier ended a  hurricane
watch  for parts of the  Gulf Coast , saying the storm was less
likely to strengthen. Even so, heavy rains, gusty winds and
flooding threaten the southeastern U.S. this weekend.  “On the forecast track, the center of Karen is anticipated
to be near the coast in the tropical storm warning area tonight
or Sunday morning,” the center said.  Karen was disrupted after encountering dry air, while high
shear -- when winds blow at varying speeds or directions at
different altitudes -- blew the biggest thunderstorms away from
the center, breaking up its structure, forecasters said.  ‘Rising Waters’  The system’s strength is forecast to be little changed over
the next two days. A tropical storm warning was in place from
Morgan City to the mouth of the Pearl River on the Louisiana-Mississippi line, while a storm watch was in effect for  New
Orleans , Lake Maurepas and Lake Pontchartrain and from east of
the Pearl to Indian Pass in the  Florida panhandle .  The  official track  has Karen clipping the extreme
southeastern tip of Louisiana and then going ashore near Mobile,
Alabama, and Pensacola tomorrow. The system may drive tides as
much as 4 feet (1.2 meters) higher than normal from Terrebonne
Bay in the Mississippi delta to Tampa Bay, Florida.  “The combination of  storm surge  and the tide will cause
normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by rising
waters,” Jack Beven, a hurricane specialist at the center,
wrote in an advisory.  Karen is  the 11th named storm  of the  Atlantic hurricane
season , which began June 1 and ends Nov. 30. The system would be
the second to hit the U.S. this year. Tropical Storm Andrea made
landfall in northwestern Florida in June and then moved up the
East Coast.  About 39 percent of natural-gas production and almost half
of Gulf oil output was closed due to the storm, the U.S. Bureau
of Safety and Environmental Enforcement said yesterday. In all,
185 platforms and 18 rigs were evacuated, accounting for 693,345
barrels a day of oil and about 1.5 billion cubic feet of gas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  