-- Rupee Leads Weekly Advance in Asian Currencies on Fed
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-10-05T00:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/rupee-leads-weekly-advance-in-asian-currencies-on-fed-outlook.html
Asian currencies rose this week, led
by India’s rupee, on speculation the Federal Reserve will delay
reducing stimulus amid a U.S. political impasse.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index gained 0.5 percent
in the five days through yesterday as the U.S. government
started a partial shutdown. Democrats, including President
 Barack Obama , say Republicans must end the standoff and raise
the debt ceiling as a precondition to talks on broader budget
disputes. The Fed will meet Oct. 30-31 after a surprise decision
on Sept. 18 to maintain $85 billion a month of bond purchases.  “Asian currencies are riding on the tailcoats of a weaker
dollar,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho Bank Ltd.
in  Singapore . “Increasingly, the chances of an October taper
are almost extinguished, but that will take the backseat the
moment we get too close to a debt-ceiling crisis.”  India’s rupee climbed 1.7 percent this week to 61.44 per
dollar in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Malaysian ringgit appreciated 1.4 percent to 3.1827, the
Philippine peso gained 0.7 percent to 43.05, while  Taiwan ’s
dollar advanced 0.5 percent to NT$29.502.  A one-week partial shutdown of the U.S. government would
probably shave 0.1 percentage point from economic growth,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, with the costs accelerating if the closure persists.
The effect of a failure to raise the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling
would be even bigger. The government will run out of borrowing
authority Oct. 17, according to the Treasury Department, leaving
only cash to pay the bills.  Indian Rupee  The rupee touched 61.2637 yesterday, the strongest level
since Aug. 13, after better-than-forecast current-account data
boosted optimism that the annual gap will narrow from a record.  The deficit was $21.8 billion in April through June,
compared with $18.1 billion in the previous quarter, the Reserve
Bank of  India  said in a statement in Mumbai on Sept. 30. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey was for a $23 billion gap.
The gap will narrow to about $59 billion in the year through
March 2014 from an unprecedented $87.8 billion the prior period,
Morgan Stanley predicts.  “Expectations of improvement in the current account and
funding are materially important for the rupee,” analysts at
Morgan Stanley, including Hong Kong-based Geoffrey Kendrick,
wrote in a research report on Oct. 3. “We are tactically
constructive on the rupee.”  Taiwan’s dollar touched NT$29.29 yesterday, the strongest
level since Jan. 28, as Chinese data signaled an economic
recovery in the island’s biggest export market is gathering
pace.  Philippine Upgrade  China ’s non-manufacturing purchasing manager’s index
climbed to a six-month high in September, according to a report
released Oct. 3, after a separate gauge showed manufacturing
expanded last month. The Taiex index closed at the highest level
since May on Oct. 3 as global funds pumped $607 million into
local equities, exchange data show.  “The Taiwan dollar, like  Korea , is very well-leveraged to
what’s happening in China,” said Patrick Bennett, Hong Kong-based strategist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
“China’s non-manufacturing PMI that was out this week was
stronger than previously, and we think services are increasingly
important for China.”  The peso completed a weekly gain after strengthening the
most in two weeks on Oct. 3 as the  Philippines  won a debt-rating
upgrade from Moody’s Investors Service. That completed the
nation’s ascent to investment rank after Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings boosted their assessments in May and March.  Elsewhere in Asia, South Korea’s won advanced 0.3 percent
this week to 1,070.43 per dollar and  Indonesia ’s rupiah gained
0.1 percent to 11,523.  Thailand ’s baht rose 0.1 percent to
31.303 and  Vietnam ’s dong was little changed at 21,115. Chinese
financial markets are shut Oct. 1-7 for public holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  