-- Russian Inflation Decelerates More Than Forecast to 13-Month Low
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-10-04T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/russian-inflation-decelerates-more-than-forecast-to-13-month-low.html
Russia’s inflation rate fell more
than analysts forecast to the lowest level in 13 months, stoking
a debate over the central bank’s reluctance to lower  interest
rates  in the face of the worst economic slowdown since 2009.  Consumer prices increased 6.1 percent from a year earlier
in September, compared with 6.5 percent in August, the Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow said in an e-mailed statement
today. That was below the median estimate of 6.2 percent in a
Bloomberg  survey  of 14 economists. Prices rose 0.2 percent in
the  month  after a 0.1 percent increase in August.  Policy makers led by Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina  have
pointed to heightened inflation expectations in holding interest
rates for a year, as their counterparts from  Mexico  to  Hungary 
opted for stimulus to aid slumping economies. While price growth
has exceeded the 6 percent top end of this year’s target range
for 13 months, Russia may hold inflation below 5 percent next
year, President  Vladimir Putin  said Oct. 2.  “I definitely think that the sluggish growth performance
and easing inflation warrant rate cuts,” Sanna Kurronen, an
economist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Helsinki, said by e-mail today
before the data release. “I expect the first cut in November,
and 75-100 basis-point cuts in total during the next three
quarters.”  The ruble, which has weakened about 5 percent this year
against the dollar, traded little changed at 32.1525 per U.S.
currency at 3:25 p.m. in Moscow.  Target Raised  The central bank last week increased its 2014 target for
consumer-price growth by a half point to 5 percent, saying a
government plan to allow partial increases in fixed costs for
consumers necessitated the revision. Targets for 2015 and 2016
were maintained at at 4.5 percent and 4 percent, respectively.  Reaching the earlier target under the new tariff plan would
require tightening monetary policy, raising risks for growth,
the central bank said.  Economists projected the central bank would cut its key
one-week rate, at which it offers auctions to provide or absorb
liquidity, by a half-point in the fourth quarter to 5 percent,
according to the median estimate of 18 economists in a Bloomberg
survey, released Sept. 26. The single policy rate, introduced by
the central bank at a Sept. 13 meeting, was set at 5.5 percent.  Core inflation , which excludes volatile costs such as
energy, advanced 0.7 percent from a month earlier in September,
remaining  unchanged  at 5.5 percent on an annual basis.
Economists forecast a 0.5 percent monthly increase and a drop to
5.3 percent from a year earlier, according to the median
estimates in two separate Bloomberg polls.  “The pace of economic growth is obviously slowing, there’s
no denying that,” central bank First Deputy Chairman Ksenia Yudaeva said in an interview in Moscow on Oct. 1. “Inflation,
including  core inflation , isn’t slowing quickly, and while
seasonally adjusted unemployment has increased slightly in
recent months, it remains fairly low.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  