-- S&P Ratings Cases Belong in States’ Courts, They Argue
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-04T19:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/s-p-ratings-cases-belong-in-states-courts-they-argue.html
Tennessee , Mississippi and at least
13 other states that sued  Standard & Poor’s  for allegedly
misleading investors about the independence of its ratings asked
a federal judge to move the cases back to their state courts.  “The heart of all of these cases is protecting the public,
and that’s the heart of state sovereignty,” Olha N.M. Rybakoff,
a senior lawyer for the Tennessee attorney general’s office,
said today at a hearing in  Manhattan .  S&P and its parent company,  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) ,
were sued by the U.S. and a group of states in February over
ratings on mortgage-backed securities during the housing boom.
The New York-based company moved the state cases to federal
court and in June won a bid to consolidate them in Manhattan.  “A finder of facts would have to take a very deep dive
into federal law to determine the meaning of the word
‘independence,’”  Floyd Abrams , a lawyer with Cahill Gordon &
Reindel LLP who is leading the S&P defense, told the judge. The
entire dispute is “suffused with federal law,” he said.  U.S. District Judge Jesse Furman said he will rule as soon
as possible.  The consolidation request was granted by the U.S. Judicial
Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, which concluded that joining
the cases for pretrial matters including motions and the
disclosure of evidence was the most efficient way to proceed.  The states argue their lawsuits raise claims of deceptive
trade practices under state laws and don’t assert any federal
claims.  The consolidated case is In re Standard & Poor’s Rating
Agency Litigation, 13-md-02446, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in federal court in Manhattan
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 