-- Sarris Says Cyprus Unsure How to Remove Bailout Capital Controls
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-10-04T13:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/sarris-says-cyprus-unsure-how-to-remove-bailout-capital-controls.html
The Cypriot government, forced to
impose  capital controls  as part of a 10 billion-euro ($13.6
billion) international  aid program , may struggle to find a way
to remove them, the country’s former finance minister said.  In March, Cyprus’s euro-area partners and the  International
Monetary Fund   granted Cyprus the bailout  in exchange for
measures including a tax on bank deposits aimed at shrinking the
Mediterranean island’s banking industry. The euro area’s first
capital controls were imposed after a two-week closure of all
banks as investors and savers moved their money to safer
destinations.  “It would have been I think much better to do something
more traditional with Cyprus,” Michael Sarris said in an
interview in London yesterday. “We had to impose a lot of
capital controls and we don’t know how we will take them off.”  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades said last month that
all restrictions on the movement of money would be removed in
January. On Sept. 27, the  Finance Ministry  renewed capital
controls on domestic banks for 28 days.  Following a first review of Cyprus’s progress in meeting
the terms of its rescue, euro-area finance ministers said on
Sept. 13 that the aid program is “ on track .”  Sarris resigned as finance minister in early April, eight
days after helping to secure the rescue deal to avoid financial
collapse. He left as a government committee was set up to
investigate the Cyprus’s woes, including his time as chairman of
Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, the country’s second-biggest lender,
which was absorbed by Bank of Cyprus Plc in the bailout.  ‘Anemic’ Growth  The Cypriot economy, burdened by the terms of the bailout,
won’t have “good years” in 2014 and 2015, Sarris said.  “We will clearly get into a worse situation than we are in
now, particularly if growth remains anemic,” Sarris said. “I
think our debt to GDP ratio could get near to 130 percent of
GDP.”  The European Commission  forecasts  Cypriot gross domestic
product to decline 8.7 percent this year and 3.9 percent in
2014. In the first review of the the country’s aid program,
published last month,  debt is seen peaking  at 126.9 percent of
GDP in 2015, and declining to 122.5 percent the following year.  Other troubled euro-area states should learn the lessons of
the Cypriot rescue, Sarris said.  “People in the countries that will experience similar
problems, where there will be questions on debt sustainability
and difficulties in getting all of the needed money from
taxpayers, will have every reason to believe that maybe there
will be a result to the same phenomenon,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in  London  at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  