-- Schaeffler Replaces CEO Geissinger to Overhaul Strategy
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-10-04T12:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/schaeffler-replaces-ceo-geissinger-to-overhaul-strategy.html
Schaeffler AG replaced Juergen Geissinger as chief executive officer to shift strategy after
plans to combine with car-component maker  Continental AG (CON)  failed.  Chief Financial Officer Klaus Rosenfeld will assume
Geissinger’s role on an interim basis, the Herzogenaurach,
Germany-based company said today in a statement. Geissinger’s
departure is immediate and by “mutual consent,” it said.  “With today’s change of leadership we have paved the way
for the future reorientation of  Schaeffler Group  and its
leadership,” Chairman Georg F. W. Schaeffler said in the
statement. “We thank Dr. Geissinger for his work and
contribution to the success of our company.”  Geissinger has led the manufacturer of automotive,
aerospace and industrial roller bearings since 1998. His
contract would have expired at the end of 2014. Family-owned
Schaeffler, which is burdened with debt from becoming the
largest shareholder in Continental, is exploring an initial
public offering next year, people familiar with the matter said
in April.  The leadership change “could reflect the preparation for a
potential IPO to de-leverage further,” said  David Arnold , an
automotive specialist at Barclays Plc’s investment-banking unit
in  London , said in an e-mail to clients today.  Debt Figure  Geissinger came under pressure after spearheading a hostile
takeover bid for Hanover, Germany-based Continental in late
2008. The offer, made just before global financial markets
collapsed, was accepted by more investors than Schaeffler
expected, almost leading to the company’s collapse as debt
ballooned to about 12 billion euros ($16.3 billion).  The bearing manufacturer didn’t split with Geissinger in a
dispute, Georg Schaeffler said on a conference call with
journalists. Rosenfeld has “the full trust” of the whole
supervisory board, the chairman said. He declined to comment on
when the company is targeting the appointment of a new CEO.
Rosenfeld is taking on the top post in addition to his
responsibilities as CFO.  A decision on Geissinger’s future at Schaeffler had been
set for the end of 2013, and his departure now was propelled by
“targeted indiscretion in the press, for which we are not
responsible,” the chairman and Maria-Elisabeth Schaeffler, his
mother and the manufacturer’s co-owner, said in a letter to
employees.  Replacement Snag  A plan by Schaeffler to name Klaus Deller from Munich-based
brakemaker Knorr-Bremse AG as CEO was hindered by his current
employer,  Handelsblatt  business daily reported earlier today.
Georg Schaeffler declined on the conference call to comment on
“personnel speculation.”  Deller is head of commercial-vehicle systems at Knorr-Bremse, a family-owned company with sales of 4.3 billion euros
in 2012 and more than 19,000 employees.  Knorr-Bremse Supervisory Board Chairman Heinz Hermann Thiele “hasn’t talked to Schaeffler about the topic,” Eva
Seifert, a spokeswoman at the brake producer, said by phone. She
reiterated that Deller’s contract runs through April 2015.  Rosenfeld, a former Dresdner Bank CFO, was hired in 2009 to
help Schaeffler reduce debt. The figure was cut to about 9
billion euros last month after Schaeffler earned 950 million
euros in proceeds from selling a 3.9 percent stake in
Continental,  Europe ’s second-biggest car-parts maker and the
region’s No. 2 tire producer.  Stake Cutback  Schaeffler has reduced its holding in Continental to 46
percent from direct and indirect control of more than 90 percent
of the stock. Schaeffler has also sold bonds to help refinance
loans from the 2009 deal.  In addition to the possible IPO, another option to raise
cash would be to bring in a large investor as owner alongside
the Schaeffler family, one of the people familiar with the
situation said in April.  Schaeffler lowered its 2013 sales forecast in August
because of weaker demand at the industrial division. Revenue is
expected to increase by 1 percent to 2 percent this year, slower
than a previous forecast of 4 percent growth. The company
maintained a target of earning 13 percent of sales before
interest and taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  