-- Serco Falls for Third Day on Government Sales Risk: London Mover
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-10-04T14:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/serco-falls-for-third-day-on-government-sales-risk-london-mover.html
Serco Group Plc (SRP) , the services
provider whose billing practices are being probed by the U.K.
Ministry of Justice, dropped for a third day on threats to its
government-contract revenue at home and abroad.  The shares  fell  as much as 1.4 percent to 525 pence in
London. A close at that price would be the lowest since June
2012. The U.K. government said last week that it gave
information about Serco to the  Serious Fraud Office  in an
investigation of possible overcharging by the Hook, England-based  company  for electronic tagging of criminals. Serco
received more than half of its 2012 revenue from the U.K.  “A big chunk of Serco’s revenues are now either under
threat from the ongoing investigation by the government or from
the Australian government’s efforts to shift its outsourcing
offshore,” said Gideon Adler, an analyst at Investec Securities
Ltd., who recommends selling the stock. “On top of that you’ve
got the U.S. macro uncertainty, which reads across negatively to
Serco’s U.S. business, given that it’s leveraged strongly into
federal budgets.”  Serco’s five-year contract to manage on-shore detention
centers for the Australian Department of Immigration and
Citizenship contributed about 8 percent of first-half revenue. A
new government has vowed to stem the flow of asylum seekers and
move them to facilities abroad. In the U.S., the failure of
politicians to agree on a budget led to a partial shutdown of
government operations, which started on Oct. 1.  Biggest Markets  Serco employs more than  100,000 people  and last year made
about 17 percent of its revenue from Australia and 14 percent
from the U.S. Those countries are Serco’s two biggest markets
outside the U.K.  The  stock  fell 1.2 percent to 526 pence at 3:03 p.m.,
taking the three-day decline to 4.9 percent and giving the
company a market value of 2.6 billion pounds ($4.2 billion).  The shares have fallen 12 percent in the past year, and the
company was dropped from the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  of the U.K.’s
biggest listed companies last month.  Of 23 analysts who follow Serco and share their findings
with Bloomberg, six recommend buying the stock, 13 suggest
holding, and four advise selling. The average 12-month price
target for the stock is 622.85 pence, based on 20 estimates,
implying a potential gain of 18 percent.  Serco completed the sale of its U.K. occupational health
business in a transaction with management for a consideration of
3.5 million pounds, the company said in a statement today. The
business provides health care to 450,000 of Serco’s client
employees in the U.K. private and public sectors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in  London  at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  