-- SGX Suspends Blumont, Liongold, Asiasons as Stocks Plunge
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-10-04T11:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/sgx-suspends-blumont-liongold-asiasons-as-stocks-plunge.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , Southeast
Asia’s biggest bourse operator, suspended the trading of  Blumont (BLUM) 
Group Ltd., LionGold Corp. and  Asiasons Capital Ltd. (ACAP)  after
shares of the commodity investors plunged.  Blumont, which invests in minerals and energy, tumbled 56
percent to 88  Singapore  cents before trading was halted. It was
the second-biggest decliner on the  FTSE ST All-Share Index. (FSTAS)  The
company said the share losses prompted the termination of a deal
to buy Australian coal producer Cokal Ltd.  The plunge in the share price “materially and adversely
affected the commercial terms discussed with Cokal,” Blumont
said in a statement to the Singapore bourse.  Asiasons, which last month bought a stake in U.S.-based oil
and gas producer Black Elk Energy Offshore Operations LLC,
plunged 61 percent to S$1.04 to lead declines on the gauge.
There are “malicious market rumors” that the Monetary
Authority of Singapore sent a team to investigate the company,
Asiasons said in response to an SGX query.  LionGold (LIGO) , which said last month it was in talks to buy as
many as three gold mining assets, slumped 42 percent to 87.5
Singapore cents. The company is in advanced stage of
negotiations to buy a stake in one of the targets, which is
listed in three foreign  stock exchanges , LionGold said in a
statement today.  Trading was suspended by the bourse to “safeguard the
interests of the markets as there could be circumstances that
would result in the market not being fully informed,” according
to a statement from the bourse.  Circuit Breaker  While existing regulations in Singapore are sufficient for
company disclosures, regulators may need to introduce circuit
breakers to automatically suspend trading of shares that have
moved sharply higher or lower, said David Gerald, president of
Securities Investors Association of Singapore.  “A circuit breaker mechanism will certainly help to give
early warning to investors,” Gerald said in an e-mailed reply
to Bloomberg.  Regulators around the world have stepped up oversight of
 capital markets  after the global financial crisis in 2008. The
MAS established a 13-member council in 2010 with a goal to boost
corporate governance standards and investor confidence.  “The concern is that short sellers are taking advantage of
the weak  market sentiment ,” Kelly Teoh, a strategist at IG
Markets in Singapore, said by telephone. “It is a good thing
that SGX shows it’s on top of everything. It is in the market
interest to have some sort of a policing environment.”  ‘Unprecedented Opportunity’  Blumont had soared more than 1,112 percent this year
through the end of September to lead gains in Singapore,
prompting the SGX to investigate the surge. In reply the company
said this week it has held talks with 20 potential takeover
targets or joint-venture partners since December.  The company sees an “unprecedented opportunity resulting
from the recent severe impairment of asset prices in the mineral
resources sector,” Blumont said in an Oct. 2 statement.  Raw-material producers and energy companies are the  worst-performing stocks  on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index this year. Gold
miner  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , which took a A$6 billion ($5.7
billion) on its assets in June, tumbled 50 percent so far this
year, the most among miners. Whitehaven Coal Ltd. sank 46
percent, leading losses among energy producers, as the  fuel 
headed for a third year of decline.  Last month, Blumont agreed to invest A$116 million in
 Australia ’s  Discovery Metals Ltd. (DML)  in a deal that could give it
control of the copper producer.  LionGold jumped 46 percent in August, touching a record
intraday high of S$1.755 on Aug. 27. Asiasons rose to S$2.83 on
Oct. 1 for its highest-ever close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  