-- Shutdown Upends Ham Radio Buffs’ Trip Marking Massacre
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-10-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/shutdown-upends-ham-radio-buffs-trip-marking-massacre.html
For anyone questioning the reach of
the federal government shutdown, consider Wake Island.  Not much more than military-plane refueling and classified
operations occur on the unincorporated U.S. territory, a coral
atoll located between Hawaii and  Guam , about 6,700 miles (10,780
kilometers) from the legislative standoff in  Washington .  That was about to change this week with the arrival of a
dozen ham-radio operators who thought they’d won approval for a
two-week commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the World War
II massacre of almost 100 U.S. civilian contractors on Wake
Island by the Japanese on Oct. 7, 1943.  Instead, after months of preparation, the trip is on ice
because of a paperwork delay the group attributes to the partial
federal shutdown, which started Oct. 1 as Republicans and
Democrats failed to agree on a stopgap spending measure.  “They made it sound like it was just unfortunate timing,”
said  Craig Thompson , 61, one of the expedition’s leaders. “At
the level that it was at, they were focused on what they had to
do to shut down government, to prepare their budgets and deal
with all of the other changes that were going on.”  The operation was of special interest to tens of thousands
of ham operators inside and outside the U.S. The hobbyists
collect contacts with all countries and islands in a practice
known as DXing. Because Wake Island hasn’t had a major radio
 expedition  since 1998, there’s great demand for its confirmation
of a contact there.  Missing Signature  All the paperwork was in place, except for final travel
orders that needed one last Pentagon signature, said Thompson,
an electronics company owner from central  Illinois  who is a
veteran of radio expeditions to other remote locales, including
Midway Island and Swains Island in the  Pacific Ocean .  “Due to the U.S. Government shutdown, the Wake Island K9W
Forgotten 98’s Commemorative DXpedition is now on hold pending a
revised schedule,” a notice posted on the group’s  website  says
in a reference that includes its special call sign.  The U.S.  Air Force  manages Wake and access is restricted.
The group was to fly commercial on Oct. 2 to Honolulu, where
they would have then boarded a military flight today to Wake.  The decision to cancel was made late on Oct. 1 after
determining the group probably wouldn’t get final approval in
time to catch the second flight, flown once every two weeks.  Anniversary Date  “They believed in the commemoration of these 98 people,”
Thompson said of the military. “Unfortunately, we are going to
lose the significance of the Oct. 7 date, because that was
actually when it happened.”  Wake Island was annexed by the U.S. in 1899 for a cable
station for trans-Pacific communications, according to the
Central Intelligence Agency’s World  Factbook . An air and naval
base was built during 1940 and 1941, and in December 1941, just
after the attack on  Pearl Harbor , the island was captured by the
Japanese and held until the end of the war.  Some of the contractor prisoners of war killed on the
island have yet to be identified and were interred in a military
cemetery in Honolulu, Thompson said. Publicity about the
expedition has already caused international attention and some
people have brought forward DNA samples in hopes of repatriating
the remains of missing family members, he said.  Since 1974, the island’s airstrip has been used by the U.S.
military, as well as for emergency landings. There are about 150
military personnel and civilian contractors on the island
charged with maintaining the airfield and communications
facilities, according to the Factbook.  Trip Budget  Sometimes those workers are ham operators, although one
person isn’t able to make the tens of thousands of contacts the
expedition was planning during its around-the-clock operation.  The trip’s budget is about $140,000, Thompson said, with
operators investing a minimum of $9,000 of their own money.
Costs include reimbursing the government for the Boeing DC-8
flight from Honolulu to Wake.  “This was actually revenue neutral to the government,”
Thompson said. “All it would have done was make their flight
more efficient. We were filling seats that wouldn’t have been
filled.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  