-- Sotheby’s Adopts Shareholder Rights Plan Amid Loeb Action
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f   a n d   C é c i l e   D a u r a t
-- 2013-10-04T19:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/sotheby-s-adopts-shareholder-rights-plan-amid-loeb-action.html
Sotheby’s (BID)  adopted a shareholder-rights plan to protect itself from hostile takeovers after
hedge-fund manager Daniel Loeb increased his stake in the
auction house and called on the chief executive officer to
resign.  The board adopted the so-called poison pill after the
“recent rapid accumulations of significant portions” of
outstanding common shares, Sotheby’s said in a statement. The
move could make an attempt to take control of the company more
costly.  “The rights will not prevent a takeover, but should
encourage anyone seeking to acquire the company to negotiate
with the board prior to attempting a takeover,” Sotheby’s said.  Loeb said this week he will seek a board seat and has begun
an informal search for outside candidates. He said he’s aware of
at least two internal candidates he didn’t identify “who
warrant serious consideration” to replace William Ruprecht as
CEO. Ruprecht also holds the titles of chairman and president.  Loeb also disclosed this week that his firm, Third Point
LLC, has raised its stake in Sotheby’s to 9.3 percent. The
billionaire activist has been ratcheting up pressure on the New
York-based auction house, criticizing its international
operations and “deteriorating” competitive position compared
with rival Christie’s International Plc, as well as its
executive compensation.  Sotheby’s board and management “have attempted to further
entrench themselves,” Third Point said in a statement.  “It is clear that today, the chief executive officer and
his hand-picked directors have put their job security ahead of
shareholders,” the hedge fund company said.  Policy Review  Last month, Sotheby’s said that it’s reviewing “its
capital allocation and financial policies” and that Patrick McClymont, an investment banker at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
would replace its chief financial officer of 17 years, William Sheridan.  In 2012, Sotheby’s sales declined 7 percent to $5.4 billion
as closely held Christie’s sales increased 10 percent to $6.2
billion. Sotheby’s shares, up 51 percent this year, fell 24
cents to $50.70 at 3:21 p.m. in New York.  Loeb isn’t the only activist with an eye on Sotheby’s.
Trian Fund Management LP, the firm run by investor Nelson Peltz,
bought 2.07 million Sotheby shares in the three months ended
June 30, or about a 3 percent stake, according to a regulatory
filing. Marcato Capital Management LLC disclosed a 6.7 percent
stake.  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg  on New York weekend,
 Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Daurat in Wilmington at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporters on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ; 