-- South Stream Seen Seeking $14 Billion of Loans for Gas Pipeline
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-10-04T16:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/south-stream-seen-seeking-14-billion-of-loans-for-gas-pipeline.html
South Stream Transport BV  is seeking
about 10 billion euros ($14 billion) of loans to help fund the
 joint-venture’s  gas pipeline under the  Black Sea , according to
two people with knowledge of the financing.  Advisers to the construction group, led by Russia’s gas
export monopoly OAO Gazprom, met lenders last month to gauge
appetite for the debt, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. South Stream hired
Credit Agricole SA, ING Bank NV and RPFB Project Finance Ltd. as
advisers to the 16 billion-euro project in April 2012, according
to the venture’s  website .  The 900-kilometer pipeline under the Black Sea links
Russian gas fields to Europe through the Bulgarian city of
Varna, according to the company’s website. Gazprom supplies a
quarter of Europe’s gas and says South Stream will cut costs and
improve  energy security  by bypassing nations such as Ukraine,
according to Alexey Miller, Gazprom’s chief executive officer.  A Gazprom spokeswoman, who asked not to be identified
citing company policy, said the joint-venture hasn’t started
raising the  project financing  yet. She declined to comment on
any details of the proposed debt.  Commercial banks and export credit agencies are being asked
to provide the financing, the people said. The agencies may
provide insurance against political and commercial risk for a
portion of commercial bank debt and are also considering making
direct loans themselves, the people said.  Pipeline Plan  Construction of the offshore pipeline is divided into two
phases, the first part will be backed by the majority of the
debt at about 8.6 billion euros. The final composition and
pricing of the 10 billion-euros of debt haven’t been decided,
the people said.  The South Stream undersea link, which has a planned
capacity of 63 billion cubic meters a year, will run through
Anapa in Russia  along the Black Sea bed  to  Bulgaria , then
continue to Serbia, Hungary,  Slovenia  and Italy, according to
the project’s  website . Gazprom says it should start delivering
fuel in December 2015.  Gazprom joined with  Eni SpA (ENI) , EDF SA and  BASF SE (BAS) ’s energy
unit Wintershall Holding to build the pipeline, the company said
in the Oct. 2 statement on its website. Gazprom holds a 50
percent stake in the project, Italy’s Eni has a 20 percent
stake, and Germany’s Wintershall and France’s EDF own 15 percent
each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  