-- Sprint Reshuffles Sales Organization With Exit of Two Executives
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-10-04T20:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/sprint-reshuffles-sales-organization-with-exit-of-two-executives.html
Sprint Corp. (S) , working to jump-start
growth under new owner  SoftBank Corp. (9984) , announced a shake-up of
its sales organization that includes the exit of Chief Sales
Officer Paget Alves and Chief Marketing Officer Bill Malloy.  Alves, who was with Sprint for 14 years, is being replaced
by three executives who will report to Chief Executive Officer
Dan Hesse, the Overland Park, Kansas-based company said in an e-mailed statement. Bob Johnson, who runs customer service and
information technology, will add the role of president and
manage Sprint’s retail sales.  The moves represent the first major management changes
since SoftBank completed its $21.6 billion takeover of Sprint in
July. Sprint had announced in August that it would cut 800
customer service jobs related to the shutdown of its outdated
Nextel network in June, setting the stage for a return to
subscriber growth by next year. The company, which ranks behind
Verizon Wireless and AT&T Inc. in mobile customers, is using a
$5 billion cash infusion from SoftBank to stage a comeback.  The company aims to target three key areas: retail sales,
the pay-as-you-go market, and business and wholesale customers,
said  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for the company.  “This new sales structure will allow us to focus on
serving the needs of the customers in each of these diverse
segments,” he said.  Customer Losses  In the second quarter, Sprint lost 1.05 million monthly
contract customers. Sprint Chief Financial Officer Joe Euteneuer
said last week at a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. conference that
subscriber losses will continue this year while the company
tries to catch up with its peers on adding a network technology
called long-term evolution, or LTE.  As part of the reshuffling, Dow Draper will oversee
Sprint’s pay-as-you-go units, including the Boost and Virgin
Mobile brands. Draper was formerly a senior vice president at
Clearwire, which was acquired by Sprint in July.  Matt Carter, formerly the company’s wholesale chief, was
promoted to president of enterprise solutions. Alves left the
company last month, while Malloy plans to retire in March.  Sprint rose 2.4 percent to $6.44 at the close in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  