-- Stein Sees Market Risk in Securities Financing Transactions
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-10-04T14:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/stein-says-securities-financing-transactions-pose-market-risk.html
Federal Reserve Governor Jeremy Stein
said the market for securities financing transactions poses a
risk to the financial system that may require further 
regulatory steps to contain.  “This market is one where a large number of borrowers
finance the same securities on a short-term collateralized
basis, with very high leverage -- often in the range of twenty-to-one, fifty-to-one, or even higher,” Stein said today at a
speech at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. “Hence, there
is a strong potential for any one borrower’s distress -- and the
associated downward pressure on prices -- to cause a tightening
of collateral or regulatory constraints on other borrowers.”  Stein did not discuss the outlook for monetary policy or
the economy in his prepared remarks. His speech focused on
securities financing transactions, which include repurchase
agreements, reverse repos, securities lending and borrowing, and
securities margin lending.  The Fed is working to improve its regulation of financial
institutions and markets following the 2007-2009 financial
crisis that led to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
and Bear Stearns Cos. The unemployment rate climbed as high as
10 percent in the wake of the crisis and has yet to recover to
its levels of 2007.  Regulatory Changes  Stein said the Fed’s current regulatory changes “have a
variety of virtues, but none seem well-suited to lean in a
comprehensive way against the specific” risks created by
securities financing transactions.  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said “significant vulnerabilities” remain in the market
for tri-party repurchase agreements despite increased oversight.
In a tri-party arrangement, a third party acts as the agent for
the transaction and holds the security as collateral.  “Significant work remains to be done,” Dudley said in
opening remarks at the conference today. “Current reforms do
not address the risk that a dealer’s loss of access to tri-party
repo funding could precipitate destabilizing asset fire sales,
whether by the dealer itself, or by the dealer’s creditors
following a default.”  Dudley said he “would urge industry participants to begin
work on this issue without further delay” and warned that
failure to fix this problem would prompt increased regulation.  ‘Holistic Solution’  “If industry is unable to play its role in achieving a
holistic solution, regulators may find themselves forced to
employ the specific policy tools at their disposal in their
respective purviews to address the fire sale risk,” Dudley
said.  “While such an approach may indeed enhance the overall
stability of this market, it could also lead to unintended
consequences that include reducing the efficacy of the critical
role played by this market in supporting the broader financial
system,” the New York Fed chief said.  Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo said in a Sept. 20 speech that
setting policies to contain the risks of short-term funding
markets should be the “highest priority” for policy makers.  Stein today said that “some mix” of new regulatory tools,
such as “capital surcharges, modifications to the liquidity
regulation framework, and universal margin requirements” may be
called for to address the markets’ risks.  “I would be remiss if I did not remind you of another,
highly complementary area where reform is necessary: the money
market fund sector,” he said.  Stein, 52, a former Harvard University professor, has
focused on the intersection of monetary policy, financial
markets and regulation since joining the Fed’s board in May
2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  