-- Stocks in Switzerland Drop to Lowest Level in Four Weeks
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-10-04T07:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/stocks-in-switzerland-drop-to-lowest-level-in-four-weeks.html
Swiss stocks  fell to the lowest level
in almost four weeks amid speculation U.S. lawmakers won’t reach
an agreement on the  federal budget  this week.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest maker of cancer
drugs, slid 1.1 percent.  Lindt & Spruengli AG (LISN)  climbed 1.4
percent after the world’s largest maker of premium chocolate
said it will buy back shares worth about 450 million Swiss
francs ($500 million).  Forbo Holding AG (FORN)  added 1.1 percent after
UBS AG recommended buying the shares of the maker of floor
coverings and conveyor belts.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  lost 0.5 percent to 7,900.87 at 9:30
a.m. in Zurich, the lowest since Sept. 9. The equity benchmark
rose 3.6 percent in September, extending its gain last quarter
to 4.4 percent, as the Federal Reserve refrained from reducing
its monthly bond purchases. The gauge has rallied 16 percent in
2013. The broader Swiss Performance Index also fell 0.5 percent
today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 4.5 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the U.S., a partial government shutdown enters a fourth
day today, with as many as 800,000 federal employees temporarily
out of work as lawmakers wrangle over the budget for the new
financial year, which started Oct. 1. A monthly jobs report due
today has been delayed.  Congress also faces a dispute over raising the $16.7
trillion  debt ceiling  this month. The Treasury has said that it
will exhaust measures to avoid exceeding the borrowing limit on
Oct. 17. If that happens, the government would run out of cash
to pay all of its bills at some point between Oct. 22 and Oct.
31, according to the Congressional Budget Office.  The Treasury Department said yesterday that a federal
default could lead to a recession comparable to the 2008
financial crisis or worse. Separately, International Monetary
Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde said in a speech in
 Washington  that it’s “mission-critical” for the U.S. to raise
the borrowing limit as a default would damage the world economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  