-- Structured Note Sales Fall to 11-Year Low as Investors Watch Fed
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-10-04T09:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/structured-note-sales-fall-to-11-year-low-as-investors-watch-fed.html
Sales of structured notes fell to the
lowest since 2002 in the third quarter in  Europe  and Asia amid
investor concern they will miss out on higher market rates when
the Federal Reserve withdraws stimulus.  Banks sold $11.86 billion of the securities that package
debt with derivatives from July through September, the slowest
quarter since the last three months of 2002, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Issuance in the U.S. was almost unchanged in the
third quarter from the previous three months at $9.75 billion.  “Talk of tapering and potentially rising rates may have
encouraged people to hold out for higher levels on structured
notes before locking in current fixed rates,” said Kara Lemont,
head of fixed-income structuring at BNP Paribas SA in London.  Demand slowed after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said in June the central bank would begin scaling back
$85 billion dollars of monthly asset purchases this year,
raising the specter of a rate rise. At the same time, those
stimulus measures had eased banks’ funding needs, further
depressing sales, particularly of notes tied to rate or
inflation benchmarks, according to Benoit Petit,  Societe
Generale SA (GLE) ’s deputy head of sales for Europe excluding France.  SocGen is among eight of this year’s 10 largest issuers
posting a drop in sales in the last quarter. The second-biggest
French bank issued $576.2 million of notes compared with a
record $1.92 billion in April through June, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg excluding notes where the amount of
principal returned can vary.  DZ Bank  AG sold $3.42 billion of notes in the third
quarter, down from $6.76 billion the previous three months, the
data show. Low  interest rates  prompted some investors to switch
to bonds and other credit products, according to Matthias Wolf,
DZ Bank’s head of structured rates in Frankfurt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  