-- Sumitomo Mitsui First-Half Profit Rises on Lower Credit Cost
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-10-04T08:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/sumitomo-mitsui-first-half-profit-rises-45-on-lower-credit-cost.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ,
 Japan ’s second-biggest bank by market value, said first-half
profit probably surged 45 percent as credit costs fell.  Net income rose to about 480 billion yen ($4.9 billion) for
the six months ended Sept. 30 from 331 billion yen a year
earlier, the Tokyo-based lender said in a preliminary earnings
statement today. That beat its forecast for 290 billion yen.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s fiscal and monetary stimulus
policies have fueled a  stock-market rally  that helped lenders
profit from fee businesses such as sales of investment products.
Borrowing is picking up as the economy recovers, with  loans  at
Japan’s biggest banks rising the most in four years in August,
central bank data show.  Sumitomo Mitsui  probably posted about 192 billion yen of
profit for the second quarter, down from 213.2 billion yen a
year earlier, according to calculations made by subtracting
first-quarter profit from the six-month figures in today’s
statement.  Credit costs at Sumitomo Mitsui’s lending unit were 80
billion yen lower than it previously forecast as the bank helped
corporate borrowers improve management, according to the
statement. Company  bankruptcies  in Japan fell for a 10th
straight month in August, Tokyo Shoko Research Ltd. data show.  Lending by major banks increased 1.9 percent in August, the
ninth consecutive gain and the biggest since May 2009. Still,
loan margins are shrinking as the central bank’s monetary easing
depresses  interest rates .  The  Bank of Japan  today refrained from expanding its bond-buying program after  business confidence  surged and Abe said the
economy was strong enough to weather a sales-tax increase.
Governor  Haruhiko Kuroda ’s board maintained its view that the
world’s third-largest  economy  is recovering moderately.  Sumitomo Mitsui maintained its forecast for net income of
580 billion yen for the year ending March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Russell Ward at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  