-- Swiss Regulators Probing Alleged Currency Manipulation
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h ,   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-10-05T10:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/swiss-regulator-probes-alleged-foreign-exchange-manipulation.html
Swiss regulators said they’re
investigating several banks for allegedly colluding to
manipulate the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign exchange market.  The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority “is
coordinating closely with authorities in other countries as
multiple banks around the world are potentially implicated,” it
said yesterday in a statement. Separately, the competition
commission said it opened a preliminary probe on Sept. 30 after
receiving allegations of collusion among banks to manipulate
some foreign-exchange rates.  The probes come after Bloomberg News reported in June that
dealers at banks pooled information through instant messages and
used client orders to move benchmark currency rates. Britain’s
Financial Conduct Authority said that month it was reviewing the
allegations. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission has
also been reviewing potential violations of the law with regards
to foreign currency markets, according to a person familiar with
the matter who asked not to be identified.  Authorities around the world are investigating the alleged
abuse of financial benchmarks by the firms that play a central
role in setting them.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, was
among four firms fined about $2.6 billion for rigging the London
interbank offered rate, the benchmark for more than $300
trillion of securities worldwide.  Potential Manipulation  European regulators are reviewing allegations of collusion
in crude oil and biofuels markets, while the CFTC and FCA are
also probing the potential manipulation of ISDAfix, a benchmark
for  interest-rate swaps .  In yesterday’s statement, Finma didn’t identify which firms
it’s investigating or give details of the scope of its probe.
The Swiss competition commission said it will decide at a later
point what further action to take. Vinzenz Mathys, a spokesman
for Bern-based Finma, declined to comment further.  UBS is among the banks being probed by Swiss regulators,
the Financial Times said today, citing unidentified sources.
Dominik Von Arx, a London-based UBS spokesman, declined to
comment.  Marc Dosch  at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  declined to
comment.  UBS closed at 18.56 francs, up 0.5 percent in Zurich, while
Credit Suisse gained 0.6 percent to 28.23 francs.  Britain’s FCA yesterday reiterated its June statement that
it has been speaking to the “relevant” parties. The regulator
has separately requested information from four banks including
Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , a person
with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be identified said
in June. The Hong Kong Monetary Authority said in a statement
yesterday it will “closely monitor” developments.  Barclays, Citigroup  About four banks account for more than half of all trading
in the foreign-exchange market, according to a May survey by
 Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc. (ERM)  Deutsche Bank is No. 1
with a 15 percent share, followed by Citigroup with almost 15
percent and London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and UBS, which each have
10 percent. Giles Croot, a spokesman for Barclays, Sebastian Howell at Deutsche Bank and Jeffrey French at Citigroup declined
to comment.  Traders at some of the world’s largest banks sought to
manipulate the WM/Reuters currency rates in their favor by
pushing through trades before and during the 60-second windows
when the benchmarks are set, five current and former dealers
with knowledge of the practice said in June. Some dealers
colluded with counterparts to boost their chances of moving the
rates, said two of the people, who worked in the industry for a
total of more than 20 years.  Index Providers  The WM/Reuters rates are used by fund managers to determine
what they pay for currencies and to compute the day-to-day value
of their holdings, and by index providers such as FTSE Group and
 MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  that track stocks and bonds in multiple countries.
While the rates aren’t followed by most investors, even small
movements can affect the value of what  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) 
estimates is $3.6 trillion in funds including pension and
savings accounts that track global indexes.  Traders said that because they agree to deal at the 4 p.m.
WM/Reuters price, they have to push through the bulk of their
trades during the window when the rate is calculated to minimize
potential losses. That leads to a surge in trading volume, which
can intensify any moves, they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  