-- Natural Gas Gains as Tropical Storm Prompts Gulf Evacuations
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-10-04T19:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/u-s-natural-gas-gains-first-time-in-three-days-in-new-york.html
Natural gas futures gained in New
York as Tropical Storm Karen forced producers to curtail
operations in the  Gulf of Mexico .  Gas rose 0.2 percent as Karen, with top sustained winds of
50 miles (80 kilometers) per hour, headed toward the U.S. coast.
Companies including Exxon Mobil Corp., Enterprise Products
Partners LP and Enbridge Inc. evacuated offshore workers as the
storm approached. About 39 percent of gas output in the Gulf has
been shut, according to government estimates today.  “There’s people taking personnel off of production
platforms so a certain percentage of U.S. production will be
lower over the next few days,” Bob Yawger, director of the
futures division at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York.
“It’s not a whole lot, but it’s support for the market.”  Natural gas for November delivery rose 0.7 cent to settle
at $3.506 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Trading volume was 35 percent below the
100-day average at 2:42 p.m. Gas has declined 2.3 percent this
week, capping the third straight weekly loss, while advancing
4.6 percent this year.  The discount of November to December futures widened 0.3
cent to 16.8 cents. November gas traded 27.9 cents below the
January contract versus 27.3 cents yesterday.  January $4 calls were the most active options in electronic
trading. They were 0.8 cent higher at 13.5 cents per million Btu
on volume of 1,175 at 3:29 p.m. Calls accounted for 58 percent
of trading volume. Implied volatility for November at-the-money
options was 28.34 percent at 3 p.m., compared with 28.46 percent
yesterday.  Tropical Storm  Karen was about 275 miles south-southeast of  Morgan City ,
 Louisiana , at  1 p.m. New York time , moving north-northwest at 10
mph, the National Hurricane Center said. The storm’s sustained
winds were down from 60 mph earlier today.  The storm is expected to approach the Louisiana coast late
tomorrow and make final landfall near Mobile,  Alabama , the next
day, the center said.  Destin Pipeline LLC, which can transport 1.22 billion cubic
feet a day of gas from the Gulf, declared force majeure
yesterday as deliveries from offshore receipt points were halted
because of the storm, according to a notice to shippers.  Enbridge’s Manta Ray Offshore Gathering system, which
collects 800 million cubic feet of gas a day in the Gulf, began
evacuating all personnel from two platforms yesterday, the
company’s website showed. The Garden Banks Gas Pipeline LLC also
removed workers from the South Marsh Island 76 platform, a
notice to shippers.  Gulf Shutdowns  About 1.497 billion cubic feet a day of gas production was
shut, the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement said.
The Gulf is home to about 5.6 percent of U.S. gas output,
according to the Energy Information Administration, the
statistical arm of the Energy Department.  Temperatures will be warmer than normal in the eastern half
of the lower 48 states through Oct. 18 while the West will see
cooler readings, according to MDA Weather Services in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  The high in  New York City  on Oct. 7 may be 78 degrees
Fahrenheit (26 Celsius), 11 above normal, and two days later
 Chicago  may be 8 higher than average at 74 degrees, AccuWeather
Inc. said on its website.  Demand Decline  “The tropical storm brings with it the chance for demand
destruction,” with cloud cover and heavy rains that may bring
in lower temperatures, reducing the need to run air
conditioners, Aaron Calder, senior market analyst at Gelber &
Associates in Houston, said in a note to clients today.
“Further limiting the upside potential is the fact that the
last two storage reports have shown that the market is
oversupplied.”  U.S. gas inventory gains accelerated in late September as
summer heat moderated in a seasonal slump before the peak
heating-demand period, which stretches from November through
March.  Stockpiles rose by 101 billion cubic feet to 3.487 trillion
in the week ended Sept. 27, above the five-year average gain of
82 billion for the period, an EIA report yesterday showed.
Supplies were 1.4 percent above the average for the seven days,
up from a  surplus  of 0.9 percent the previous week.  The number of  rigs drilling  for gas in the U.S. rose by 2
this week to 378, according to Baker Hughes Inc. The rig count
is down 12 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  