-- U.S. Sovereign Default Swaps Jump as Debt Ceiling Deadline Looms
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-10-04T11:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/u-s-sovereign-default-swaps-jump-as-debt-ceiling-deadline-looms.html
Credit-default swaps insuring against
losses on U.S. Treasuries almost doubled this week as the
deadline for raising the nation’s $16.7 trillion debt limit
approaches.  The cost of one-year contracts jumped to 62 basis points
from 33 basis points, according to date provider CMA, with the
four-day partial government shutdown showing no sign of ending.
President  Barack Obama  canceled plans to attend two economic
summits in  Asia  amid wrangling by U.S. lawmakers over the budget
and Oct. 17 debt ceiling.  “The probability of default will increase in everyone’s
minds as we go through next week,” said Luke Hickmore, an
Edinburgh-based investment director at Scottish Widows
Investment Partnership, which holds about 30 billion pounds ($48
billion) of corporate debt. “We could be in for a rocky ride if
we don’t get an agreement at the weekend.”  Hickmore said he’s buying 10-year Treasuries and selling
two-year securities as well as using the Markit iTraxx Crossover
Index of credit-default swaps on 50 companies with mostly high-yield ratings to hedge against price swings.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc is also recommending using
the Markit benchmark to buy protection against volatility. The
Crossover index was little changed this week at 397 basis
points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Volatility Trades  “Those volatility reduction trades are worth doing as we
get nearer the potential deadline,” Hickmore said. “If a
default doesn’t happen they’re easy and cheap to take off again.
People will be increasingly doing this as the shutdown wears
on.”  Two-year credit-default swaps contracts rose to 46.5 basis
points from 31, while 10-year swaps fell to 46 from 51 as the
chances of an imminent payout increases.  Trade volumes are also climbing, with swaps on Treasuries
the 15th most active of 1,000 entities tracked by the Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp. in the week through Sept. 27, up from
147th the previous period. There were 56 trades covering a gross
$2.1 billion of Treasuries, compared with 10 trades covering
$290 million the previous week, according to DTCC, which runs a
central registry for the market.  There are now 886 contracts covering a net $3.4 billion of
debt outstanding, the most since March and up from an almost
three-year low of $3.1 billion on Sept. 20. The 8 percent
increase is the biggest since June 2011.  That compares with $13.1 billion of protection on German
bunds and $16.9 billion on Italy’s debt.  “Even though it remains an unlikely scenario, we belive
credit markets are being complacent about political risks,”
said  Alberto Gallo , an analyst at RBS in  London . “While we
remain structurally long European credit, financials, high yield
and the periphery, we think October could see volatility rising
and maintain our hedge on iTraxx Crossover.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  