-- UBS Employee Takes Leave Amid Review of Puerto Rico Loans
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-10-04T12:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/ubs-employee-takes-leave-amid-review-of-puerto-rico-loans.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  said it put a financial
adviser on administrative leave in Puerto Rico while the Swiss
bank reviews loans issued to clients. One brokerage customer
said he was given credit to buy risky bond funds holding the
island’s government debt.  UBS employees in Puerto Rico circumvented curbs on margin
loans to generate  revenue  for the Zurich-based company,
according to a Sept. 30 arbitration claim filed in San Juan with
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority on behalf of Victor
M. Gomez Jr. The bank didn’t adequately explain that UBS
controlled trading and set prices in the secondary market,
according to the complaint, which cited a previous  order  from
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  “The firm is reviewing this issue of loans,” said  Karina Byrne , a spokeswoman for UBS, in an e-mailed statement. “We
have put one financial adviser on administrative leave, pending
further review.” She declined to name the adviser or comment on
specifics of the claim, saying the bank hasn’t been served with
the filing.  The New York Times reported this week that UBS encouraged
clients to borrow money to put in Puerto Rican bond funds.
Prices of the island’s municipal debt have been sliding as the
commonwealth’s economy contracts. Bloomberg News obtained a copy
of the complaint from Harold D. Vicente-Colon, a San Juan lawyer
for Gomez who said he filed it with Finra.  Closed-End Funds  Registered representatives of UBS Financial Services Inc.
of Puerto Rico offered clients loans secured by shares they
already owned in  closed-end mutual funds , which are “generally
concentrated” in Puerto Rico bonds, according to the claim. The
funds also leverage their portfolio by financing about half of
the assets, according to the filing. Because they are leveraged,
“no margin is suitable or licit for the financing of their
respective shares,” according to the claim.  UBS representatives routed the proceeds of the loans back
to the securities accounts of their clients and used the money
to buy even more shares of  UBS funds , according to the
complaint.  By opening lines of credit and disbursing UBS Bank loans to
clients, the company violated loan procedures required by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., according to the claim.  “General weakness in municipal markets across the U.S. and
Puerto Rico and apprehension about the direction of interest
rates have led to steep declines in Puerto Rico municipal bond
and closed-end fund prices and a lack of liquidity for these
securities,” Byrne said in an e-mailed statement.  The bank requires clients to sign documents affirming that
they won’t use loans that pledge securities as collateral to buy
more investments, Byrne said.  Tax Break  Interest on debt issued by Puerto Rican governments is
typically tax-free across the U.S., and yields on some issues
topped 10 percent in recent weeks amid doubt about whether
investors will be repaid. Bonds from the self-governing
commonwealth of about 3.7 million people are rated one step
above junk as Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla strives to
reduce budget deficits and strengthen a pension system that’s
more underfunded than any U.S. state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  