-- Turkey Aiding Flow of Islamist Fighters Into Syria: Assad
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-10-04T08:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/turkey-aiding-flow-of-islamist-fighters-into-syria-assad.html
Turkey  is funneling Islamist and
other fighters from more than 80 countries into Syria and will
ultimately pay a heavy price for its association with
“terrorists,” according to Syria’s President Bashar al-Assad.  The Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his
government “is responsible for the blood of tens of thousands
of Syrians,” Assad said, according to the  transcript  of an
interview with Turkey’s Halk TV and Yurt newspaper today.
“These terrorists enter Syria from neighboring countries,
primarily Turkey.”  Syria’s two-and-a-half year uprising has left more than
115,000 people dead, according to the Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights, a U.K.-based monitoring group. He’s accused by the
U.S. and human rights groups of using chemical weapons as well
as an array of conventional armaments against rebel fighters and
civilians.  Assad says he’s fighting Islamist fanatics, a charge he
repeated in the Oct. 1 interview with Turkish media, according
to a transcript published on the website of Halk TV ahead of
today’s broadcast.  Tens of thousands of “terrorists” are fighting in  Syria ,
Assad said, adding that it is not possible to determine their
exact number. “The main problem is new terrorists infiltrate
through borders, as much as we kill them,” Assad said.  Turkish authorities have blamed a Turkish group linked to
the Syrian regime for car bombings that killed 53 people in
Reyhanli near the Syrian border in May.  Family Vacation  Turkey, which has opened its doors to more than 500,000
Syrian refugees, denies arming Syria’s rebels. Ties between
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Assad, who
vacationed together with their families in 2008, have
deteriorated since the Turkish leader urged Assad to stop
massacring his own people and step down.  Turkey has said it was ready to join any international
coalition to punish the Syrian regime for its alleged use of
chemical weapons outside Damascus on Aug. 21. Turkey’s
parliament yesterday extended the mandate authorizing the
government to send armed forces abroad, including to Syria, for
one year.  Assad again denied the allegations, arguing that ordinary
army units don’t have chemical weapons and blaming “terrorist
groups” for the attack that killed about 1,400 people.  The United Nations Security Council on Sept. 28 unanimously
approved an agreement to eliminate all of Syria’s chemical
weapons and UN weapons teams are currently in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  