-- Musk Defends Model S Safety in Company’s Review of Fire
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-10-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/musk-defends-model-s-safety-in-company-s-review-of-fire.html
Elon Musk, chief executive officer of
 Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , defended the safety of the company’s flagship
Model S sedan after a fire involving one of the cars raised
questions about its lithium-ion battery pack.  A Model S driven in Kent,  Washington , near Seattle, on Oct.
1 struck metal debris on the road. The object appears to be a
“curved section” that fell off a semi-trailer, Musk said
yesterday in a statement on the  company’s website . The car’s
warning system alerted the driver to pull over and exit the
vehicle, after which the fire broke out, he  said.   “The geometry of the object caused a powerful lever action
as it went under the car, punching upward and impaling the Model
S with a peak force on the order of 25 tons,” Musk said. “Had
a conventional gasoline car encountered the same object on the
highway, the result could have been far worse.”  News of the fire, the first such incident involving a Tesla
vehicle, triggered a 10 percent drop in the company’s shares
over two days, reflecting concerns that the incident may tarnish
the automaker. Tesla, already the world’s biggest seller of
premium battery-powered cars, has soared fivefold this year
after posting its first quarterly profit, repaying a U.S. loan
nine years early and expanding Model S sales to  Europe  and  Asia .  The Washington State Patrol and local authorities are
investigating the incident. A review by U.S. safety inspectors
isn’t likely soon because they are among workers furloughed
during the U.S. government shutdown.  Stored Energy  “All cars come with risks,” said  Brett Smith , co-director
of manufacturing, engineering and technology at the Center for
Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan . The Model S “has a
lot of energy stored there, and it has some risk like other
cars,” Smith said.  “We’re driving around products every day that have
ridiculous amounts of energy stored onboard in the form of
gasoline,” he said.  Tesla  rose  4.4 percent to $180.98 yesterday at the close in
 New York . The  shares  have climbed 434 percent this year,
compared with a 20 percent gain for the Russell 1000 Index.  The collision punctured the battery pack’s aluminum casing,
creating a 3-inch (7.6-centimeter) hole, Musk said. The fire
caused by the impact was in the front battery module, one of 16
in the car, and “was contained to the front section of the car
by internal firewalls within the pack,” he said.  The Model S battery casing offers more protection than that
of gasoline-powered autos, said Musk, who is also the  Palo Alto ,
California-based company’s biggest shareholder.  Gasoline Vulnerability  “A typical gasoline car only has a thin metal sheet
protecting the underbody, leaving it vulnerable to destruction
of the fuel supply lines or fuel tank, which causes a pool of
gasoline to form and often burn the entire car to the ground,”
he said.  The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration , which
conducts crash investigations, is prohibited from doing any work
on vehicle safety matters or discussing them, it said in an Oct.
3 e-mailed statement.  “Tesla is a young company,” Smith said. “There are going
to be problems. Safety problems are of utmost concern. The most
important thing is how a company addresses the issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  