-- Four People Dead in Kenya Amid Riots After Muslim Cleric Killed
-- B y   B e n a r d   O n y a r i   a n d   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-10-04T16:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/muslim-preacher-linked-to-cleric-with-al-shabaab-ties-shot-dead.html
Four people were killed in  Kenya  in
riots that broke out after gunmen murdered a Muslim preacher
associated with an assassinated recruiter for the Somali
Islamist group, al-Shabaab, the police and Kenya Red Cross said.  The incident comes as security officials continue a probe
into an attack on a shopping mall in the capital, Nairobi, two
weeks ago that left 67 people dead, which al-Qaeda’s affiliate
in Somalia said it was responsible for organizing.  Sheikh Ibrahim Amor and three others were shot dead when
unidentified assailants sprayed their car with bullets near the
port city of Mombasa late yesterday, Mombasa county Police
Commander Robert Kitur said today by phone.  Security forces fired tear gas today to disperse about 200
people demonstrating in the city’s Majengo area after Friday
prayers at Masjid Musa, and the Salvation Army church in the
neighborhood was set ablaze. Seven people were injured in the
protests, the Kenya Red Cross said on its Twitter feed.  Amor preached at the same Mombasa mosque as Sheikh Aboud
Rogo Mohammed, whose murder in August last year in similar
circumstances sparked days of riots, Kitur said. Rogo faced
sanctions by the U.S. and the  United Nations  for fundraising and
recruiting fighters for al-Shabaab, the al-Qaeda-linked Somali
militant group.  Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the Sept. 21 attack
on the Westgate Mall in the Kenyan capital in which at least 61
civilians and six members of the security forces died.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benard Onyari in Mombasa at 
 bonyari@bloomberg.net ;
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  