-- Vivendi Chairman Fourtou to Retire After Split
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-10-04T10:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/vivendi-chairman-fourtou-to-retire-after-split.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou
plans to retire after he is done overseeing a full split of the
French telecommunications-to-media conglomerate.  Fourtou said in an interview published by the newspaper Le
Monde today that he will step down, and his comments were
confirmed by Paris-based Vivendi. The 74-year-old Frenchman has
headed the company’s  board  since 2005.  “I want to leave Vivendi in a stronger position so the
company can make a new start with a more flexible, more focused
structure,” Fourtou was cited as saying. “I’ll leave when a
split of Vivendi into two segments is complete.”  Vivendi is weighing whether to carve out its French phone
unit SFR to prepare it for an initial public offering, or
instead separate its media assets into a new structure, Fourtou
told Le Monde. Vivendi isn’t willing to sell SFR outright,
though no one has bid for the asset, he said.  As part of plans to overhaul its structure to boost its
market valuation, Vivendi is in exclusive talks to sell its
stake in Maroc Telecom SA to  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) ,
and is divesting its stake in video-game maker  Activision
Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  Deliberations are under way internally about how
Vivendi’s remaining assets -- record label Universal Music Group
Inc., pay-TV company  Canal Plus  and Brazilian Internet unit GVT
-- will be structured as two separate entities.  Fourtou will consider handing his post over to Vivendi
shareholder and Vice Chairman  Vincent Bollore  when he retires,
he said, according to Le Monde. Vivendi will also seek a new
chief executive officer for its future media division, he said.
Current CEO Jean-Francois Dubos will stay in his post until the
split is done, Fourtou said.  Vivendi shares  gained  1.7 percent to 17.17 euros at 12:48
p.m. in Paris trading, giving the company a market value of 23
billion euros ($31 billion). They have jumped 12 percent in the
past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  