-- Vo Nguyen Giap, Vietnam General Who Beat French, Dies at 102
-- B y   J a s o n   F o l k m a n i s
-- 2013-10-05T16:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/vo-nguyen-giap-vietnamese-general-who-beat-french-dies-at-102.html
Vo Nguyen Giap, whose defeat of a
French army in the remote Vietnamese valley of Dien Bien Phu
more than a half-century ago symbolized the end of an era of
colonial domination, died yesterday. He was 102.  He died in a military hospital, the Vietnamese government
said today on its website, citing a statement from the Communist
Party’s  Central Committee . Giap had become frail in recent
years, halting his custom of attending the opening sessions of
the country’s National Assembly. He resided at Central Military
Hospital 108 in Hanoi as of February, the army newspaper Quan
Doi Nhan Dan reported.  As the general in charge of the Viet Minh, Giap led a
“people’s war” against French forces that culminated in
victory at Dien Bien Phu in 1954 and the peace agreement that
led to the dividing of Vietnam into north and south.  “After Ho Chi Minh, he was the most important figure in
the 20th century Vietnamese experience,” Stanley Karnow, a
Pulitzer-Prize winning author who covered the  Vietnam War , said
in a 2008 telephone interview. “He was a self-taught general,
and the key to his generalship was a strategy of sheer
endurance.”  Within a decade of the French defeat,  Vietnam  found itself
pitted against another Western power, as U.S. involvement
increased in what is known locally as the American War. “The
aggressor army of the U.S. imperialists, although over-supplied
with arms and ammunition, cannot escape the doom that has
befallen the other invaders on this soil,” Giap wrote in 1972.  ‘Brilliant’ Strategist  Vietnam will hold a two-day national mourning period in
honor of Giap from noon local time on Oct. 11, to noon on Oct.
13. All offices will hang the flag at half mast and
entertainment activities will stop, the government said. The
general will be buried in his home province of Quang Binh, in
central Vietnam, on Oct. 13, after a funeral Oct. 12 in Hanoi.  U.S. Senator  John McCain , who was a prisoner of war in
North Vietnam for five and a half years, said yesterday in a
Twitter message that Giap was a “brilliant military strategist
who once told me that we were an ‘honorable enemy.’”  Giap’s transformation from imperialist-bashing
revolutionary to honored elder statesman mirrored Vietnam’s move
from international outcast to its self-described “friend to all
nations” policy. By 1995, Vietnam had opened diplomatic
relations with the U.S., now a top market for Vietnamese
exports.  Patriotic Father  Giap was born on Aug. 25, 1911, in the central province of
Quang Binh, a sparsely populated province with poor-quality land
pressed up against the Laotian border. Quang Binh is just to the
north of the Ben Hai River, the de facto border between North
Vietnam and South Vietnam until reunification in 1975.  The eldest surviving son in his family, Giap received a
strong dosage of patriotic ideals from his father, a scholarly
rice farmer who taught local children to read in his spare time.  At age 13, Giap went to study in the central city of Hue,
seat of the imperial court, which by then had become a virtual
puppet under the control of the French colonial administration.  Protests against French prohibitions on nationalist
activities resulted in Giap’s expulsion from school, his
introduction to Marxist studies, and ultimately to an arrest at
the age 18 for taking part in political activities. Once freed,
Giap went to Hanoi for the first time and earned a law degree
from a French-run university.  Ho Chi Minh  French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius today termed Giap an
“exceptional man” and said that the general had been
“profoundly attached” to French culture, as well as a fluent
speaker of French.  Giap’s joining of the Communist Party of Vietnam resulted
in both a marriage to a fellow militant -- who later died in
prison after being arrested by the French -- as well as
eventually a move to  China  where he first met Ho Chi Minh, who
was directing anti-French activities.  He assumed responsibility for forming guerrilla units after
returning to Vietnam and although lacking formal military
training, took control of the military activities of the Doc Lap
Dong Minh Viet Nam, known to the Western world as the Viet Minh.  Ho Chi Minh declared Vietnam independent in September 1945,
which led after a breakdown of negotiations with  France  to full-scale warfare by the end of 1946.  The “people’s war” led by Giap was an all-out societal
mobilization that included a willingness to sacrifice troops to
make it clear to the enemy that it was involved in a drawn-out
war of attrition.  ‘Holy Cause’  “You could say that Giap’s strategy was brutal, but to him
this was akin to a holy cause,” said Karnow, who had
interviewed Giap, and who died in January 2013. “There was no
limit to what he was prepared to accept in terms of losses.”  At Dien Bien Phu, Giap had troops haul supplies, including
howitzers, by hand through mountainous and jungle-laden terrain
to surround a French outpost, set up to protect neighboring
 Laos .  A two-month siege following a Viet Minh attack in March
1954 resulted in the one-by-one taking of French positions and
the humiliating French surrender in May.  “Much of the credit for Dien Bien Phu should go to Giap
and the way he adapted to the situation,” said William Duiker,
a retired professor of East Asian Studies at  Pennsylvania State
University  and the author of several books on Vietnam. “His
strategy was to find a place where the defeat of the French
would maximize its propaganda effectiveness.”  Living Legend  While Giap remained the formal military commander-in-chief
during fighting against the U.S., and was seen in the West as
the key military decision maker, his influence declined during
the 1960s, according to Duiker.  Though Giap served as defense minister and a deputy prime
minister in post-reunification Vietnam, he was removed from the
Politburo by the early 1980s. By the 1990s, when Vietnam began
fully opening its society and economy to Western influences, he
had become entrenched as a living local legend.  In 2009, his name resurfaced in the news after he wrote an
open letter to Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung to call for a
temporary halt to a planned bauxite project in order to study
the potential environmental impact.  Giap was visited in February 2013 in the Hanoi military
hospital where he resided by Defense Minister Phung Quang Thanh
ahead of Vietnam’s Tet lunar new year holiday, the Quan Doi Nhan
Dan newspaper reported.  “His major legacy was the role he played in the war
against France and his association with the idea of people’s
war, which is symbolic of the way in which a weaker force can
oppose a stronger, more technologically advanced force, using
political as well as military means,” Duiker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  