-- Vodacom Said to Seek 50% Business Boost From Neotel
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-10-04T11:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/vodacom-said-to-seek-50-business-boost-from-neotel.html
Vodacom Group Ltd.’s (VOD)  proposed
takeover of  Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM) ’s South African unit will
boost its revenue from business customers by about 50 percent,
according to a person involved in the talks.  The acquisition of Neotel Pty Ltd. will accelerate a push
for Vodacom Business, the corporate unit of the biggest provider
of mobile phone services in South Africa, to contribute as much
as 25 percent of the carrier’s South Africa service revenue by
2018, according to the person, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private.  In the year ended March 30 the unit accounted for 8 billion
rand ($800 million), or 16 percent, of Vodacom’s total revenue.
Acquiring Neotel from Mumbai-based Tata Communications will add
4 billion rand to sales, the person said.  Vodacom is in talks to buy Neotel for more than 5 billion
rand, a person familiar with the discussions said on Sept. 27,
declining to be identified because an announcement had not been
made. The Johannesburg-based company confirmed the talks on
Sept. 30 and two people familiar with the discussions said on
Oct. 1 the acquisition will involve the assumption of about $500
million in debt.  Vodacom  shares  were down 1.1 percent at 125.81 rand as of
1:27 p.m. in Johannesburg, giving it a market value of 187.1
billion rand.  Neotel is valued at 5.6 billion rand to 9.9 billion rand
because of its spectrum and market share of the small- to
medium-business market, according to HSBC Global Research
analyst Rajiv Sharma.  Deal Opposition  The proposed deal has been opposed by  South Africa ’s
Wireless Access Providers’ Association, which said the
acquisition would curb competition and lead to job cuts.  The takeover would “severely limit open wholesale access
and set back rather than increase competition and consumer
choice,” Christopher Geerdts, chairman of the association, said
in a statement.  Vodacom, which is 65 percent owned by Newbury, England-based  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , said in a Sept. 30 statement that the
proposal would create greater competition in the country’s
fixed-line market. The company is increasingly focused on small-to medium-sized business customers and expanding data services
to offset declining revenue from its South African voice
division.  Vodacom declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  