-- Twitter Look-Alike Ticker Triggers 685% Advance in Penny Stock
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-10-04T20:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/twitter-look-alike-ticker-triggers-684-advance-in-penny-stock.html
     Oct. 4 (Bloomberg) -- Tweeter Home Entertainment Group
Inc., the once-bankrupt home-entertainment retailer, surged 685
percent before trading was halted as traders confused the
company with the microblogging service Twitter Inc.  The Canton, Massachusetts-based company trades over the
counter under the ticker TWTRQ. Twitter, which filed for an
initial share sale yesterday, will list under the ticker TWTR.
Trading of Tweeter was halted at 12:42 p.m. New York time by the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Inc. The stock rallied
to as much as 15 cents, before trimming its gain to 5 cents.
More than  14.3 million  Tweeter shares changed hands today, the
most since 2007 and an amount representing less than $1 million
of trading, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Somebody probably got confused ahead of the Twitter IPO
and either misspelled the name of the company or mistyped the
ticker by adding a Q at the end,”  Larry Peruzzi , senior equity
trader at Cabrera Capital Markets LLC in Boston said by phone.
“The stocks like Tweeter and  Lehman Brothers  are out there and
are completely unregulated where somebody can just buy a few
thousand shares and it’s off to the races.”  Trading with Tweeter was temporarily halted as it
demonstrated a misunderstanding related to the possible IPO of
an unrelated security, causing a  “major disruption”  to the
marketplace, Finra said in a statement posted on its website.
Finra will notify the market when trading may resume, it said.  In the most anticipated technology offering since Facebook
Inc., San Francisco-based Twitter made public its S-1 prospectus
yesterday and said it’s seeking to raise $1 billion. Twitter
pegged the fair value of its common stock at $20.62 a share in
August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in  New York  at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  