-- Woman Killed in Capitol Chase Was Delusional, ABC Says
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2013-10-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/woman-shot-by-police-near-capitol-had-minor-legal-issues.html
A  Connecticut  woman who police say
led officers on a car chase through Washington before being shot
to death was delusional and thought President  Barack Obama  was
electronically monitoring her, ABC News reported.  The black Infiniti sedan involved in the Oct. 3 incident is
registered to Miriam Carey of Stamford, Connecticut, said a law
enforcement official who asked to not be identified to discuss
an open investigation. Carey, 34, is believed by authorities to
have been the driver, the official said.  Carey believed that Obama planned to broadcast her life on
television and that he had placed Stamford on lockdown, ABC
 reported  citing sources it didn’t identify. Her boyfriend called
police twice last year to report she was acting irrationally and
putting her baby daughter in danger, the network said.  ABC also reported that Carey’s mother, Idella Carey, said
her daughter suffered from post-partum depression after having a
baby in August 2012. “She was depressed” and was hospitalized,
ABC quoted Idella Carey as saying. She said she didn’t know why
her daughter was in  Washington , ABC said.  The shooting near the U.S. Capitol startled office workers
and tourists in an area of Washington that has been under heavy
security since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. It took
place less than three weeks after a gunman killed 12 people in a
shooting rampage at the Washington Navy Yard, a military
facility about a mile south of the Capitol.  Miriam Carey’s former lawyer, Leslie Silva of Stamford,
said yesterday she had represented Carey in several matters,
including a dispute over  unemployment  benefits and a threatened
foreclosure after she missed a condominium fee payment.  ‘Minor Problems’  “These were very minor problems, very minor and easily
resolved,” Silva said. “They weren’t cases of a desperate
nature.” She said she last saw Carey in January or February.  Silva said she handled the closing when Carey bought her
condominium in 2009. Carey was fired by the dentist who employed
her after she returned following her pregnancy, said Silva, who
said she helped Carey obtain  unemployment benefits .  The foreclosure notice was filed over an unpaid condominium
fee of less than $1,500, Silva said. The situation was worked
out and the foreclosure notice withdrawn, she said.  Erin Jackson, 31, of Stamford said in an interview that she
and Carey were next-door neighbors in the Woodside Green
Condominiums and that they occasionally smiled at one another
and exchanged greetings. They hung similar flower wreaths on
their doors, she said.  Lawn Picnic  Jackson said she sometimes saw Carey and her daughter
picnicking on the lawn across from their condominium building
during the summer.  “Never in a million years would I have thought it was
her,” Jackson said. “No one knows why or what happened.”  Following the incident, authorities conducted and overnight
search of an apartment at the condominium building.  After obtaining a search warrant, federal and local law
enforcement officers broke through a window and placed a robot
in the apartment to determine it was safe before entering,
according to  Stamford  Police Chief Jon Fontneau. They hauled
away items including a computer and cardboard boxes.  Fontneau said the woman’s apartment wasn’t unusual. “She
was nothing out of the ordinary that would draw attention to
herself at that point,” he said. Fontneau said his department
had prior experience with Carey that didn’t involve criminal
charges, while declining to disclose details.  The incident “appears to be an isolated, singular matter
with, at this point, no nexus to terrorism,” U.S. Capitol
Police Chief Kim Dine said at an Oct. 3 briefing.  Capitol Lockdown  The Capitol was locked down and the Senate and House of
Representatives recessed amid reports of gunfire. Secret Service
spokesman Ed Donovan said the afternoon incident began when the
woman tried to ram through an outer barricade on the White House
grounds, less than 2 miles (3 kilometers) away.  Uniformed Secret Service officers blocked the car at the
White House, and a chase ensued as the suspect drove through
downtown streets toward the Capitol, Washington Metropolitan
Police Chief  Cathy Lanier  told reporters after the incident.
Shots were fired in at least two locations, she said.  Officers tried to stop the suspect at Garfield circle, at
the foot of the Capitol, Dine said. She continued driving,
striking a police cruiser near 1st Street and Maryland Avenue on
 Capitol Hill . The chase ended about a block away, Dine said,
adjacent to two buildings where many senators have offices.  Carey’s sister, Amy Carey-Jones, said her family was in
shock over the incident and questioned whether authorities
needed to resort to deadly force to end it.  ‘Another Way’  “There has to be another way instead of shooting and
killing an individual,” Carey-Jones said in an interview aired
on CNN last night. “There could have been something else that
could have been done.”  A one-year-old girl was found unharmed in the car and taken
to a hospital for observation, according to a Washington police
statement. While authorities haven’t identified the child,
Carey-Jones acknowledged on CNN the girl was her sister’s
daughter and said the family has been told she’s safe.  Two officers were injured during the chase, one from the
Secret Service and one from the Capitol Police, Lanier said.  Some lawmakers and staff members at the Capitol wore
buttons yesterday that said “Thank You Capitol Police,”
referring to the officers who responded to the incident.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said yesterday that
officers are “risking their jobs without pay” during the
partial federal government shutdown that began Oct. 1. Congress
“owes it to them” to resolve its differences and open the
government, the Nevada Democrat said.  Reid said he spoke with the Capitol Police officer who was
injured in the incident, who said his job was to keep the
Capitol community safe. Reid, 73, was a part-time Capitol Police
officer while he attended law school in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  