-- WTI Heads for Weekly Gain as U.S. Seen Avoiding Default
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-10-04T12:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/wti-falls-fourth-day-this-week-as-u-s-shutdown-may-curb-demand.html
West Texas Intermediate crude headed
for its first weekly gain in a month amid speculation that the
budget standoff in the U.S. will be resolved without a debt
default that would harm economic growth and fuel demand.  Futures have advanced 0.8 percent this week in New York,
and traded little changed today. The U.S. government stoppage is
entering its fourth day as lawmakers wrangle over the budget and
an increase in the debt limit. BlackRock Inc.’s Laurence D. Fink
and Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said the
impasse won’t lead to default. Companies including Exxon Mobil
Corp. curbed Gulf of Mexico output and evacuated workers as
Tropical Storm Karen triggered a  hurricane watch .  “People are probably trying to look beyond the current
crisis, and feel that it will be over soon,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . “However, I would not underestimate the
psychological impact.”  WTI for November delivery rose as much as 44 cents to
$103.75 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was at $103.68 as of 1:08 p.m. London
time. The volume of all futures traded was about 58 percent
below the 100-day average.  Brent for November settlement gained as much as 54 cents,
or 0.5 percent, to $109.54 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange yesterday. The European benchmark was at
a premium of $5.77 to WTI, compared with $5.69 yesterday.  U.S. Shutdown  Brent gained even as Royal Dutch Shell Plc said it removed
a force majeure yesterday on Nigerian Bonny Light crude exports
after fixing one link of the Trans Niger Pipeline, according to
an e-mailed statement. Force majeure is a legal clause excusing
a company from meeting its delivery obligations.  WTI will probably decline next week on concern that the
political impasse in  Washington  may damp economic growth and
energy demand, a Bloomberg survey showed. Eighteen of 30
analysts and traders, or 60 percent, forecast crude will drop
through Oct. 11. Six respondents, or 20 percent, predicted an
increase and six said that there would be no change.  President  Barack Obama  urged House Speaker  John Boehner  to
hold a vote on funding federal operations without strings
attached, saying that that would end the crisis. The government
will run out of borrowing authority Oct. 17, according to the
Treasury, leaving only cash to pay bills.  The congressional dispute will end “very rapidly,”
Blackrock’s Fink said yesterday at an event hosted by the UCLA
Anderson School of Management at the Beverly Hilton hotel in
 Beverly Hills , California, and streamed on CNBC.com.  Gulf Storm  In the Gulf, Karen’s top sustained winds eased to 60 miles
(105 kilometers) per hour, down from 65 mph earlier. It was
about 295 miles south of the mouth of the  Mississippi River  and
moving north-northwest at 10 mph, the National Hurricane Center
in Miami said in an advisory at 4 a.m.  New York  time. The storm
may reach hurricane strength today.  Exxon curtailed output by 1,000 barrels of oil equivalent a
day and pulled non-essential personnel from offshore operations
in Karen’s path. Anadarko Petroleum Corp. shut and evacuated the
Independence Hub and three other platforms in the central and
eastern Gulf. BP Plc, Chevron Corp., Enterprise Products
Partners LP and Royal Dutch Shell Plc said they were also moving
personnel out of the system’s track yesterday.  The  region is home  to 23 percent of U.S. oil production,
5.6 percent of gas output and more than 45 percent of petroleum
refining capacity, according to data from the Energy Information
Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical arm.  The release of North Sea crude loading plans for November
began with A.P. Moeller-Maersk’s Danske Undergrunds Consortium.
There will be 3.6 million barrels, or 120,000 barrels a day, of
the DUC grade next month, a program obtained by  Bloomberg News 
showed. Schedules for the four grades that make up the Dated
Brent benchmark are due to be released on Oct. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  