-- YPF Sees 27-Month High on Oil Bond Proceeds: Buenos Aires Mover
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-10-04T18:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-04/ypf-sees-27-month-high-on-oil-bond-proceeds-buenos-aires-mover.html
YPF SA, Argentina’s largest energy
company, surged to its highest value in more than two years as
the country negotiates at least $1 billion of funding for a bond
whose proceeds will be invested in oil and gas projects.  YPF gained 6.6 percent to 196 pesos at 2:20 p.m. in Buenos
Aires, after rising earlier as much as 8.2 percent. The stock
has almost doubled in price this year to reach the  highest
intraday level since  July 7, 2011. Its American depositary
receipts jumped 6.5 percent to $21.52 in New York.  Bridas International, an Argentine energy company run by
the billionaire Bulgheroni brothers, said Oct. 2 it will invest
$500 million in the government bonds that will pay a 4 percent
coupon and mature in 2016. Other companies will follow Bridas
and grain exporters as the nation looks to attract funds to tap
shale oil and natural gas deposits to close a widening energy
deficit, said Ruben Pascuali, an analyst at Mayoral Bursatil.  “The gain is obviously because of the new cash the company
is going to get after this week,” Pascuali said by phone from
Buenos Aires. “Proceeds from the energy bonds will go to YPF’s
exploration program.”  In addition to Bridas, Argentine grain exporters are
holding talks with authorities to buy another $500 million of
government energy bonds, according to two people involved in the
discussions who aren’t authorized to speak publicly as talks are
ongoing.  Repsol (REP)  Settlement?  There’s also speculation that YPF is coming closer to
settling an investment dispute with Spain’s Repsol SA. YPF Chief
Executive Officer Miguel Galuccio told Spanish newspaper
Expansion Oct. 3 that the conflict will be resolved by year-end
either by “the negotiated route or the legal route.”  “This is positive for YPF because it would pave the way
for it to form partnerships and draw investment,” Santiago Wesenack, a Raymond James Argentina energy equity analyst, said
in a telephone interview from Buenos Aires.  Argentina seized YPF, the country’s largest oil company,
from Spain’s Repsol in April 2012 after criticizing rising oil
imports and a lack of investment.  Kristian Rix, a spokesman for Repsol, declined to comment
in a telephone interview from  Madrid .  YPF should continue rallying as the share price in pesos
doesn’t factor in the currency’s depreciation, Pascuali said.
The Argentine peso has lost 15 percent this year against the
U.S. dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  