-- Ethiopia Plans More Price Caps Amid `Unhealthy' Competition, Ministry Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2011-01-12T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-12/ethiopia-plans-more-price-caps-amid-unhealthy-competition-ministry-says.html
Ethiopia  plans to impose price
controls on more products as it tries to curb inflation that is
being fuelled by a lack of competition in the Horn of Africa
country, a Trade Ministry official said.  The government introduced caps on the cost of bread, meat,
sugar and beer, and imported products including milk powder and
rice on Jan. 6. The controls were aimed at addressing
“unhealthy market competition,” the state-owned Ethiopian News
Agency reported, citing Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi .  “There will be more products added,” Efrem Woldeselassie,
director of inspection and regulatory affairs at the ministry,
said in an interview in  Addis Ababa , the capital, on Jan. 10. He
declined to provide further details.    St. George , an Addis Ababa-based brewery, said it can cope
with the controls, though it is seeking further clarity on the
measures, said Esayas Hadera, marketing manager at the company.
Additional restrictions may limit the supply of goods to
domestic stores, as it did in Zimbabwe three years ago when
similar measures were introduced.  “The same fate awaits Meles’ policies and the birr, unless
the regime changes its policies and begins to attack the root
causes of the price hikes,” Seid Hassan, an Ethiopian professor
of economics at Murray State University in  Kentucky , said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  Birr Devalued    Ethiopia ’s central bank on Sept. 1 devalued the birr by 17
percent against the dollar. Annual inflation accelerated in the
following two months, before slowing to 10.2 percent in November
from 10.6 percent in October. Food prices rose 5.8 percent in
November from a year earlier, according to the Central
Statistical Agency.  World food prices climbed to a record high in December on
steeper sugar, grain and oilseed costs, exceeding levels reached
in 2008 that sparked deadly riots from  Haiti  to  Egypt , the
United Nations  Food and Agricultural Organization  reported on
Jan. 5. An index of 55 food commodities tracked by the UN’s FAO
gained for a sixth month to 214.7 points, above the prior all-
time high of 213.5 in June 2008.  A lack of “fair and transparent” competition in Ethiopia
is the “most serious problem” facing the authorities, which
will be addressed by changing the country’s laws, Efrem said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at 
1999 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  