-- 
Libya Crisis Will Create `Stagflationary Winds,' El-Erian Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-02-22T20:19:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-12/europe-faces-difficult-balancing-act-tackling-debt-crisis-el-erian-says.html
The spread of political turmoil to  Libya  will add “stagflationary winds” to the global economy,
according to Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at
Pacific Investment Management Co.  Protests in Libya, holder of Africa’s largest oil reserves,
poses more “systemic” risk to the global economy as opposed to
the upheaval in Egypt and Tunisia, El-Erian said in a Bloomberg
Television interview with Tom Keene on the “Surveillance
Midday” program. Western nations will face accelerating
inflation and smaller demand in the Mideast and North  Africa  for
their exports, on top of the “new normal” of slower growth and
lingering higher unemployment, according to El-Erian.  There will be “higher inflation and lower growth because
of higher  oil prices , which take away purchasing power and
transfers wealth somewhere else,” El-Erian said. There will be
“higher geopolitical risk, which tends to diminish animal
spirits and therefore impacts investments. From an economic
perspective, it’s important for the West to understand that
these are stagflationary winds.”  Oil surged to a two-year high as Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed to fight a growing rebellion until his “last drop
of blood.” Speaking in Tripoli, the capital, he also pledged to
deploy the army and police tomorrow to impose order and called
on supporters to reclaim the streets. Continued protests “will
lead to civil war,” Qaddafi said,  Qaddafi’s crackdown on a weeklong uprising has already left
more than 200 dead, according to  Human Rights Watch .  Crude Oil Gains  Crude oil for March delivery gained $7.37, or 8.6 percent,
to $93.57 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
touched $94.49 a barrel, the highest level since Oct. 3, 2008.
Futures have risen 15 percent in the past year.  Libya is the latest nation to be rocked by protests ignited
by last month’s ouster of  Tunisia ’s president and fanned by the
Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak . While violent
unrest has also spread to Bahrain, Iran and  Yemen , none of those
regimes has used as much force to quell protesters as Libya.  The unrest in the Middle East and North Africa will be
“stagflationary” for the global economy in the short term
because it will increase oil and commodity prices and shrinks
the markets in which anti-government demonstrations have taken
place, El-Erian said in commentary in the  Financial Times  today.  “Over time, however, such market apprehension is likely to
give way as the impact of greater long-term stability
in a key part of the world is felt,” he wrote. “In the long
term, after all, democracy and individual freedoms are the best
drivers of prosperity.”  Dollar ‘Warning’  The  U.S. dollar , which typically rises in times of
political unrest, was little changed against the euro, trading
at $1.3663, while currencies such as the Swiss franc rallied on
demand for a refuge from geopolitical turmoil.  The performance of the dollar is “a warning shot to
America that we cannot simply assume flight to quality, flight
to safety,” El-Erian said in the Bloomberg TV interview.
“People are starting to worry about the fiscal situation in the
U.S. They are starting to worry about the level of debt.”  The franc jumped 1.1 percent to 1.2814 versus the euro in
New York trading after earlier reaching 1.2792, the strongest
level since Jan. 31.  “We cannot assume that we will maintain the standing of
the reserve currency as we have done in the past,” El-Erian
added.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
manages $1.24 trillion of assets as the world’s biggest manager
of bond funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;  Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  