-- Chelsea's Drogba Says Latest Loss May Kill Hopes, Telegraph Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2011-02-09T09:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-12/liverpool-joins-arsenal-in-race-for-young-southampton-striker-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Chelsea’s Hopes  Chelsea striker Didier Drogba said his team’s defense of
its Premier League title might be over after the 1-0 home loss
to Liverpool last weekend, the Telegraph said.  “This latest defeat to Liverpool has cut away our legs and
jeopardized our chances of winning the league,” he said.  Pavlyuchenko to Flee to  Rome ?  Tottenham striker Roman Pavlyuchenko may end up at Zenit
St. Petersburg because the Russian transfer window doesn’t close
until the middle of March, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Or the player may leave the London club for Roma this
summer after he criticized manager  Harry Redknapp  for not
selecting him enough, Metro reported.  The Russian won’t leave White Hart Lane before the summer,
the Mail said, citing his agent Oleg Artemov.  Bendtner’s Advice  Arsenal striker Nicklas Bendtner warned England coach Fabio Capello to learn from the frustrations of Theo Walcott and not
hurt the development of midfielder Jack Wilshire, the Telegraph
said.  Wilshire, 19, will make his first national team start this
evening in an away match in  Denmark . Fellow Gunner Walcott was
selected for the 2006 World Cup, but didn’t play and was left
out of the most recent squad for the event in  South Africa .  Bendtner said England use of young players is a ‘danger,”
the newspaper said.    Luis Fabiano  to Blackburn?  Blackburn is trying to sign Sevilla and Brazil striker Luis
Fabiano,  the Daily Mirror reported .  The 30-year-old player may cost as much as 10 million
pounds ($16 million), the paper said. Fabiano’s fame has made
him an attractive signing for Venky’s, an Indian operator of
poultry farms that bought Blackburn in October. Venky’s has a
strong presence in Brazil.  Drogba’s Marseille Return?  French club Marseille wants to bring Drogba back to France
this summer by offering him a salary of 5 million pounds a year,
the  Daily Express  reported.  Drogba left Marseille for Chelsea in a 24 million-pound
deal in 2004. The Ivory Coast player has frequently spoken out
about his wish to one day return to the club where he first made
his name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 