-- 
Gucci Helle Revamps Image to Beat Sex Gap in Danish Election

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-14T12:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/-gucci-helle-revamps-image-to-beat-sex-gap-in-danish-vote-1-.html
Helle Thorning-Schmidt may be about
to become  Denmark ’s first female prime minister after ignoring
the politics of sex in the Nordic region’s most unequal society
for women.  The 44-year-old mother of two, once dubbed “Gucci Helle”
by Danish media for her preference in handbags, is set to win
tomorrow’s election when her Social Democrat-led bloc ends the
decade-long rule of Prime Minister Lars Loekke Rasmussen’s
Liberal-Conservative coalition, according to all polls published
since the vote was announced on Aug. 26. An average of 110 polls
compiled by newspaper  Berlingske  puts her bloc’s lead at 3.7
percentage points, with a margin of error of 0.7 point.  Denmark, which in 1924 became the world’s first democracy
to have a woman cabinet minister, has since been overtaken by
the other Nordic countries, where women are better represented
in parliaments and company boards. Still, Thorning-Schmidt has
avoided election issues that smack of gender politics, even
dropping plans to seek better female board representation.
Instead, she’s revamped her image and focused her campaign on
funding Denmark’s welfare state without getting sucked into
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  No ‘Dumb Blond’  “She’s in no way coming across as the dumb blond some
people may have thought she was some years ago,” Klaus
Kjoeller, associate professor of political communication at
Copenhagen University, said in a phone interview. “She’s been
playing a very fine balancing act where she needs to signal
female values and still attract male voters. And she’s done it
successfully.”  Thorning-Schmidt’s bloc would get 52.8 percent of the vote,
compared with 47 percent for the government and its allies,
according to a Gallup Denmark poll published today by
Berlingske. The poll showed that 20.7 percent of voters are
still undecided.  Denmark lags behind other Nordic countries, which occupy
the top four spots for gender equality across the world.
Iceland,  Norway ,  Finland  and Sweden led in the  World Economic
Forum ’s 2010 Global Gender Gap report. Denmark ranked seventh,
just ahead of  Lesotho . The U.S. was 19th, and the U.K. 15th.  Women executives and board members in Denmark earn as much
as 21 percent less than their male counterparts, while women
make up just 18.1 percent of Denmark’s corporate boards,
compared with 44.2 percent in Norway, where the law sets a
minimum of 40 percent.  Worst Performer  At the same time, Denmark is Scandinavia’s worst-performing
economy, as it tackles the fallout of a burst housing bubble
that’s exacerbated a local banking crisis and sapped consumer
demand. Gross domestic product will grow 1.25 percent this year,
the central bank estimates.  Sweden ’s economy will expand 4.5
percent in 2011, while Norway’s mainland output will grow 3
percent, according to the two countries’ central banks. Even
Iceland’s economy will outperform Denmark’s, growing 2.8 percent
this year, its central bank forecasts.  Thorning-Schmidt, who lost the 2007 election to Rasmussen’s
predecessor, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, has spent the past four
years shedding her Gucci moniker. Instead, the daughter-in-law
of former U.K. Labour Party Leader Neil Kinnock has appealed to
crisis-weary voters with promises of more state-funded benefits
such as better schooling and healthcare. Rasmussen has struggled
to persuade Danes they should accept a cap on public expenditure
to avoid building up an unsustainable debt mountain.  ‘Clear Choice’  After announcing the election last month, Rasmussen evoked
the specter of a deepening European fiscal crisis and warned
voters they face a “clear choice: uncontrolled debt or
sustainable welfare.” Thorning-Schmidt said the same day the
state needs to deploy more public funds, arguing that “without
growth we can’t pay down our debt, and without growth there’s no
money for welfare.”  Denmark, which is home to the world’s highest tax burden at
48.2 percent of GDP in 2009, boasts one of the world’s highest
levels of income equality. Meanwhile, gender equality has been
overlooked as voters fret over the economy, allowing sexist
trends to continue, authors Mette Bom and Nanna Kalinka Bjerke,
who between them have published eight books on gender equality,
wrote on the website of the Danish Centre for Information on
Gender, Equality and Ethnicity last month.  ‘Lost Cause’  “Campaigning on feminist issues is a completely lost
cause” in this election, Bom and Bjerke wrote. Candidates are
shunning the subject on the advice of spin doctors to avoid
coming across as “hippies” or “bleeding heart humanists,”
during an economic crisis, the two said.  Allowing sexism to fester can ultimately hurt an economy,
some studies show. Gender equality is linked to economic growth,
according to a 2005 report by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. In developed economies, gender
equality leads to higher fertility rates and helps counter aging
populations and declining labor forces, according to the OECD.  Thorning-Schmidt’s program includes policies such as
forcing banks to fund increased spending on schools, while other
welfare services will be financed through higher taxes on items
such as cigarettes and fatty foods. She rejects Rasmussen’s
proposal to phase out early retirement in an effort to balance
the budget.  The government’s program is “stronger from an economic
point of view,”  Steen Bocian , chief economist at Denmark’s
biggest lender, Danske Bank A/S, said in a Sept. 3 note.
Rasmussen’s policies are better financed and will do more to
boost Denmark’s trade competitiveness, he said.  ‘Wrong Medicine’  “It will be a very wrong medicine to introduce tax
increases, and that’s what’s going to happen if we have a change
in government,” Premier Rasmussen said today at a Copenhagen
press meeting. That will prompt Danes to ask for raises,
weakening the country’s global competitiveness and undermining
sustainable growth and job creation, he said.  While sex equality has been absent from her campaign,
Thorning-Schmidt has managed to appeal to crisis-weary voters
with what Kjoeller calls “feminine” policies. That may help
promote gender equality via the backdoor, he said.  “Even though gender issues are nowhere near the center of
the political debate, the election is actually about female
values versus male ones,” he said. Thorning-Schmidt “is the
defender of the female core value of welfare while the prime
minister is focusing on the much more masculine topic of
balancing the economy.”  Thorning-Schmidt says Danes shouldn’t expect the fact that
she’s female to play a part in her policies if she wins. Still,
becoming Denmark’s first female prime minister will send a
signal, she said.  “For young girls, whom I meet a lot when I travel around
the country, it will be a big thing,” she said yesterday at a
press briefing in Copenhagen. “It will really show them that
there’s no post in Denmark that a girl can’t aspire to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  