-- 
Pessimism Surges as 72% See U.S. Economy on Wrong Course in Poll

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-09-14T04:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/72-see-u-s-economy-on-wrong-course-poll.html
Americans’ pessimism about the
economy has deepened and confidence in both political parties
has fallen with only 20 percent saying the country is on the
right course even as they remain divided over solutions.  Just 9 percent of people say they are confident the economy
won’t slide back into recession, in a Bloomberg National Poll. A
majority says it will take at least six more years for home
values in their community to recover to pre-recession levels.  “This country is going downhill,” says Glenn Davis, 53, a
political independent and a factory worker from Lafayette,
 Indiana . “For regular people like me, it’s hard to get ahead.”  Americans are sending mixed signals on the path forward,
according to the poll, conducted Sept. 9-12 by Selzer & Co. of
 Des Moines ,  Iowa . While they embrace the need for tough
prescriptions to cut the federal deficit, including scaling back
entitlement programs such as Social Security and increasing
taxes on the wealthy, they balk at many specific spending cuts.  Still, the public is re-examining opposition to once-
politically explosive ideas such as eliminating the home
mortgage interest deduction in the income tax code and raising
the Social Security retirement age. Pluralities now support both
after a resounding rejection only nine months ago.  The broad message of Republicans is resonating, with 57
percent of the country saying the best way to create jobs is to
cut taxes and  government spending . That hasn’t stopped the
party’s brand from deteriorating, and the public rejects many
specific Republican policy prescriptions.  Declining Repeal Appeal  Support for one of the party’s central tenets is declining,
with just 34 percent of the country now favoring repeal of
President Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul, down from 41
percent six months ago. Republicans support repeal, while
political independents and Democrats don’t.  A 51 percent majority says a special congressional
committee considering how to reduce the federal deficit by $1.5
trillion should opt to raise taxes on higher-income earners
before curbing entitlements such as Medicare or Social Security,
rejecting Republican pledges against tax increases. Almost six
of 10 say the panel must do one or the other to meet its
deficit-cutting goal.  “Taxes are at the heart of the controversy because
Americans hold two conflicting views,” said J. Ann Selzer,
president of Selzer & Co. “In the abstract, they’d rather cut
than raise taxes. But in the context of near-term goals to cut
the deficit, they prefer raising taxes to cutting
entitlements.”  Losing Patience  The poll results show the public is running out of patience
with political leaders after months of protracted negotiations
over the national debt ceiling that brought the country to the
brink of default and signs that the economy is weakening.
Seventy-two percent say the country is on the wrong track.  Both sides have suffered. A 53 percent majority holds a
negative view of the  Republican Party , up from 47 percent in
June. The  Democratic Party  has also taken a hit, with a 46
percent to 44 percent plurality of respondents saying they have
an unfavorable view of the party, a reversal from a plurality of
48 percent to 42 percent with a positive view three months ago.  “Both sides need to think outside the box,” says Rachel
Reichard, 40, a political independent and full-time home-
schooling mother from Hagerstown,  Maryland . “It just seems like
everybody is thinking like they did in the Clinton
administration. They still had typewriters on the desk and
landlines back then.”  No Better Off  Only 27 percent of Americans say they are better off now
than in January 2009, when Obama took office in the depths of
the recession compounded by the September 2008 financial crisis
and the country was losing as many as 820,000 jobs a month.
That’s a decline from June, when 34 percent said they were
better off.  Unemployment and jobs are the nation’s top concern, cited
by 46 percent of Americans, ranking ahead of the combination of
the deficit and government spending at 30 percent. Among
Republicans, the combination of the deficit and spending was the
most important issue, cited by 47 percent, ranking ahead of jobs
at 36 percent.  Concern over the economy has increased as growth weakened
during the first half of the year to its slowest pace since the
recovery began, and market pessimism has risen over the European
debt crisis. In August, U.S. employers added no new net jobs,
the worst monthly results for payroll growth since September
2010.  Income Drops  Unemployment has been hovering at or above 9 percent for
more than two years and real average hourly wages for those who
have jobs declined 1.3 percent over the 12 months through July.
Even with 3 percent growth in the economy last year, real median
income for U.S. households dropped in 2010 to the lowest level
since 1996, according to a census report issued yesterday.  The benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has declined 12.8
percent since July 22 and was down 6.74 percent for the year at
the market close in  New York  yesterday.  After months of political debate dominated by struggles
over the national debt and deficit, Obama’s advantage over
Republicans on who has the better vision for the economy has now
largely eroded.  Poll respondents still favor the president’s long-term view
by 43 percent to 41 percent for Republicans, though that has
slipped from a 12-point advantage for Obama in March. Political
independents now divide almost evenly: 38 percent for Obama and
39 percent for Republicans.  The public’s view of Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is also less favorable than in the last poll. Twenty-
nine percent said they have a favorable view of the central
banker against 35 percent who have an unfavorable view. That
compares with the June poll, when 30 percent had a favorable
view, and 26 percent had an unfavorable view.  Rejecting Republican Plans  Majorities reject many specifics of Republicans’ long-term
plan to balance the budget. More than three-quarters oppose cuts
to Medicaid, the federal-state health-insurance program for the
poor, and almost 6 of 10 reject replacing the Medicare plan for
the elderly with a private voucher system.  A 54 percent majority would raise taxes on families earning
more than $250,000 per year, a measure that Republican leaders
oppose.  Public support is rising for some budget measures that much
of the country once considered untenable. Americans are now
evenly divided on gradually raising the Social Security
 retirement age  to 69, with 49 percent in favor and 48 percent
opposed. Last December, the idea was opposed 60 percent to 37
percent.  Viable Option  “It’s a viable option,” said Chris Nicholson, 44, a
political independent and a software architect in Oakland,
 Tennessee . “People live longer. My mother’s 65 and there’s no
reason for her not to work. As a matter of fact, she’d be
working now if she could find a job.”  Support for a higher retirement age is strongest among the
elderly, whose benefits wouldn’t be affected. Still, middle-aged
and younger Americans have softened their opposition. Fifty-two
percent of those under 55 are now against an increase in the
retirement age versus almost two-thirds in December.  A tax revamp that eliminates all deductions, including that
for home mortgage interest payments, in exchange for lower rates
is backed by 48 percent and opposed by 45 percent. In December,
51 percent were against the proposal compared with 41 percent in
favor.  Republicans favor the idea 54 percent to 38 percent. In
December, they opposed it 51 percent to 41 percent.  The poll, which questioned 997 U.S. adults ages 18 or older,
has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at   mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 