-- 
Mac, PC Finally Friends in Parallels Universe: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-09-14T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/mac-pc-finally-get-along-in-parallels-universe-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Take an underpowered, limited-
capacity Mac. Load it up with full versions of Microsoft’s
Windows and Office software. Now try running everything at the
same time, including the Mac’s operating system, without
crashing or slowing things to the speed of the Long Island
Expressway on a summer weekend.  Parallels Desktop 7 , the latest version of Parallels Inc.’s
Windows-in-a-Mac software, successfully navigated my little
torture test with nary a hiccup. There’s no better solution for
Mac users who want Windows compatibility and don’t mind spending
$80 extra (plus the cost of Windows itself) to get it.  You don’t need Parallels to run Windows on a Mac. Ever
since  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  switched to using the same  Intel Corp. (INTC)  chips
that run most Windows personal computers, it has had a free
program called Boot Camp that lets you switch back and forth.  Boot Camp, though, has several limitations. You have to
choose which operating system you want to start up, and reboot
if you want to go back and forth. And there’s no easy way to
share files between the two sides, or to transfer information
from one to the other.  Parallels allows the two to co-exist, letting you switch
between them seamlessly, even cutting and pasting between
applications. You can run an entire PC in a window on your Mac
desktop, complete with Windows 7’s “Aero” user interface with
its translucent borders. Or you can choose a mode called
Coherence that hides Windows, making PC programs feel and behave
almost like native Mac applications.  Two Generations Old  To try out the software, I used a year-old 11-inch MacBook
Air with a now two-generations-old Intel Core 2 Duo processor,
four gigabytes of memory and 128 gigabytes of storage. I had
previously installed Windows and Office, using Boot Camp to run
them when needed.  I started out using Parallels with the Snow Leopard version
of the Mac’s OS X, then upgraded to the latest version, Lion.
The installation process under Snow Leopard went smoothly, with
one exception: a somewhat disconcerting Microsoft message
informing me that my fully, honestly bought-and-paid-for copy of
Windows wasn’t legit.  Parallels said the warning was probably triggered because
Windows had been installed before its software was. In any
event, I was allowed to proceed with the set-up despite my
impugned integrity.  Imaginary PC  Recognizing that I had already partitioned the Mac’s flash-
memory storage to accommodate the two operating systems,
Parallels incorporated my existing Windows programs and files
into its “virtual machine” -- the imaginary PC it creates
within the Mac environment. If I hadn’t already owned Windows,
Parallels would have allowed me to buy and download a copy from
its new online Convenience Store, which includes a variety of
utilities, games and other programs as well.  The software proved to be both low-overhead and low-
maintenance. It took up less than a gigabyte of my constrained
storage capacity and speedily launched Microsoft programs in
Coherence mode from a drop-down Windows start menu accessed via
a Parallels icon on the Mac’s top bar.  All my custom macros for Microsoft Word worked without a
hitch. I was also able to easily run the special software used
for accessing the Bloomberg Professional Service, and even ran -
- slowly --  Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) ’s Major League
Baseball 2K11 game.  Hiding the Seams  Even better, Parallels has successfully hidden many of the
seams that existed in earlier versions of the program. The Mac’s
camera, for instance, can now be shared between Windows and Mac
programs without reconfiguring it.  Many of Lion’s new features are enabled for PC programs,
including gesture-based navigation, full-screen mode and the
ability to pin Windows icons to the Launchpad screen. And you
can even choose to replace Windows programs’ borders with a Mac
look, completing the illusion of complete integration.  In conjunction with the release of Parallels Desktop 7, the
company also upgraded Parallels Mobile, its iPad app ($5 for a
limited time, eventually $20) that allows you to remotely
control your virtual machine and, now, the rest of your Mac as
well. In general, I found that the app worked well but had no
particular advantage over other services that offer much the
same functionality.  Linux and Lion  If you have a more robust Mac than my little Air, you can
use Parallels Desktop 7 to manage multiple virtual machines --
not just Windows but Linux and even Lion, which could prove
useful to Mac developers seeking to try out code in a controlled
setting.  For us normal people, though, its value comes in the
meshing of the Windows applications we may need for business
with the pleasures of the Mac hardware and operating system. If
it doesn’t completely end the endless Windows-Mac debate, it
comes pretty close: Just imagine one of those “I’m a Mac, I’m a
PC” commercials with the two of them walking off arm-in-arm.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 