-- 
Accused Underpants Bomber Wasn’t Read Rights, FBI Agent Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   S t e v e   R a p h a e l
-- 
2011-09-14T22:22:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/accused-christmas-underpants-bomber-wasn-t-overmedicated-nurse-testifies.html
The man accused of the Christmas
2009 attempt to blow up a Northwest Airlines plane with
explosives hidden in his underpants wasn’t told he had a right
to remain silent when interviewed by U.S. investigators, an FBI
agent testified.  “We had to find out who he was in contact with,” Timothy
Waters of the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  testified at a
hearing before U.S. District Judge Nancy G. Edmunds in Detroit
today. “We felt there were other planes in the air with  suicide
bombers .”  The defendant,  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab , who is
representing himself, has said agents improperly questioned him
in a hospital while he was under the influence of the painkiller
fentanyl. Abdulmutallab, who was hospitalized with burns
following the incident, also said the U.S. failed to read him
his rights.  Abdulmutallab has asked the court to throw out statements
he made to U.S. agents after being taken into custody. The U.S.
has said that Abdulmutallab wasn’t impaired by drugs and that
concerns for public safety required agents to question him
immediately, before advising him of his rights.  Northwest Airlines   Northwest Airlines Flight 253, carrying 279 passengers and
11 crew members, originated in Amsterdam and was approaching
Detroit on Dec. 25, 2009, when Abdulmutallab tried to detonate
the explosives, according to prosecutors. He set fire to his
clothes and a wall before passengers subdued him, prosecutors
said.  Abdulmutallab, a 24-year-old native of  Nigeria , faces eight
criminal counts, including conspiracy to commit an act of
terrorism, attempted murder and attempted use of a weapon of
mass destruction. He has pleaded not guilty and faces a possible
life sentence if convicted. His trial is set for Oct. 4.  Edmunds didn’t decide today whether the statements will be
admitted. The hearing will continue tomorrow.  Jury selection for the trial began today with Edmunds
giving about 250 prospective jurors a questionnaire.  Osama bin Laden  “is alive,” Abdulmutallab said when he
entered the courtroom, as prospective jurors watched on a
monitor. He leaned back in his chair and put his right foot on
the table in front of him, removing it after getting a glare
from the lawyer assisting him.  The defendant, who was dressed in a white T-shirt and black
pants, complained about being forced to wear prison clothing. He
later put on an unbuttoned shirt over the T-shirt.  ‘Al-Qaeda’  Abdulmutallab told  U.S. Customs  and Border Protection
officers immediately following the airplane incident that “he
had detonated an explosive device hidden in his underwear, and
that he had been acting on behalf of al-Qaeda,” prosecutors
said in court papers Aug. 26.  Abdulmutallab was sent to a hospital at the University of
 Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , where he was treated for burns and given
fentanyl, the U.S. said. FBI agents were assured by medical
staff that the amount of the painkiller he received “would not
render him incommunicative or unable to understand them,” the
U.S. said.  “Once it became clear to the agents that what was under
way was in fact an act of terrorism that could have been a part
of a coordinated, multipronged attack similar to 9/11, it was
lawful and appropriate for the agents to ask questions intended
to respond to the imminent threat to public safety posed by the
defendant and any possible confederates or co-conspirators,”
prosecutors said in the Aug. 26 filing.  Not Overmedicated  The defendant wasn’t overmedicated and was able to respond
to agents’ questions, a nurse testified at today’s hearing.  “He didn’t appear to be high on fentanyl,” Julia
Longenecker, a treating nurse at the hospital, testified. When
asked whether the fentanyl affected the defendant, she replied:
“No, I don’t think so.”  Abdulmutallab’s statements to the U.S. should be rejected
because the U.S. used coercive means to obtain them, Anthony
Chambers, the defendant’s standby counsel, said in court
filings. Abdulmutallab fired his court-appointed attorneys last
year and is representing himself. He’s being aided by Chambers,
who has filed pretrial motions on the defendant’s behalf.  Hospital staff advised federal agents that Abdulmutallab
“could not be legally interviewed for four to six hours after
administering the fentanyl,” Chambers argued in court papers.
“Abdulmutallab was heavily sedated and semiconscious when he
was interviewed by the federal agents and made the statements.”  ‘Coercive Activity’  The agents’ interviews while Abdulmutallab was on
medication constituted “coercive activity,” Chambers said in a
filing dated Sept. 1. “Abdulmutallab lacked the cognitive
ability to terminate the questioning and to know when to refuse
to answer the question.”  Edmunds today denied a separate motion by the defendant
asking to change the location of the trial. Abdulmutallab said
extensive media coverage had created an “environment of
hostility” toward him.  “The publicity in this case has been largely impartial
reporting on the public court proceedings and motions,” Edmunds
wrote. Because the jury questionnaire and scheduled questioning
of prospective jurors “will fully expose any prejudice from
pretrial publicity, a change of venue is not warranted at this
time,” she said.  The case is U.S. v. Abdulmutallab, 10-cr-20005, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan ( Detroit ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Raphael in Detroit at 
 sraphael5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  