-- 
ADB Says India May Raise Interest Rates, Cuts Growth Forecast

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-09-14T01:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/adb-says-india-may-raise-interest-rates-cuts-growth-forecast.html
India  may raise  interest rates 
further to tame inflation, the Asian Development Bank said as it
cut the nation’s economic growth forecast for the current
financal year.  “Given the RBI’s commitment to battle persistent high
inflation, there will be further monetary tightening in the
remaining months of FY2011 until there is credible evidence of
inflation trending to the RBI’s target range,” the Manila-based
lender said in its Asian Development Outlook Update 2011 report.  India’s economy  may grow 7.9 percent in the year ending
March 31, lower than the 8.2 percent growth estimated in April,
the ADB said. Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao
has to weigh the risks to expansion posed by  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery against inflation when he
makes his next policy decision on Sept. 16.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation probably
accelerated to 9.64 percent in August from 9.22 percent in July,
according to the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. The commerce ministry will release the data today.  Inflation in India may remain “elevated” in the first
half of the current fiscal year because of higher fuel and
transport costs and “evidence of wage-price spiral,” the
report showed.  The ADB raised its inflation forecast for the year ending
March 31 to 8.5 percent from 7.8 percent, according to the
report. Inflation may ease to 6 percent the following year, the
ADB said.  Subbarao has boosted the  Reserve Bank ’s benchmark
repurchase rate by 325 basis points since mid-March 2010, the
fastest round of increases since the central bank was
established in 1935, Bloomberg data show. The repurchase rate is
8 percent.  The ADB also reduced India’s growth forecast for the fiscal
year starting April 1 to 8.3 percent from 8.8 percent “due to a
longer monetary tightening cycle and higher policy rate hikes
than expected earlier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  