-- 
ADB Reduces China Growth Estimate, Highlights Need to Rebalance Economy

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-14T01:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/adb-cuts-china-growth-estimate-says-economy-must-rebalance.html
The  Asian Development Bank  cut its
estimate for  China ’s growth this year and said that failure to
rebalance growth toward domestic consumption poses risks to the
sustainability of the nation’s expansion.  The Manila-based lender said gross domestic product will
increase 9.3 percent this year, down from an April estimate of
9.6 percent. China’s inflation forecast was raised to 5.3
percent from 4.6 percent. The revisions were given in the update
to the Asian Development Outlook released today.  The world’s most populous nation has offered a bright spot
in a global economy contending with a deepening debt crisis in
 Europe  and the threat of renewed recession in the U.S. Risks for
China include too much investment, too little consumption,
widening income disparity and an aging population, the ADB said.  The government’s latest five-year economic plan “addresses
many of these issues, but failure to continue reforming and
rebalancing risks the sustainability of economic growth in the
long term,” according to the  report . “The immediate challenge
is to implement the required policy adjustments at a time of
political transition to a new generation of leaders” starting
next year, it said.  The ruling Communist Party is set to convene a once-every
five-years Congress late next year that will select new members
of the Politburo Standing Committee, the nation’s highest
decision-making body. The committee currently has nine male
members including President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao .  Risks to Outlook  In addition to cutting China’s growth forecast for this
year, the ADB shaved its estimate for 2012 to 9.1 percent from
9.2 percent. The economy expanded 10.4 percent in 2010.
“Uncertainty” over external demand and the “rapid” increase
in local government debt are the main risks to the outlook,
according to today’s report.  The bank raised its estimate for consumer-price gains this
year because of higher-than-expected increases in food costs in
the first half of the year. The inflation rate next year will
drop to an average 4.2 percent, reflecting moderation in global
prices of oil and commodities and continued “gradual”
appreciation of the yuan which will lower imported inflation,
the ADB said.  Wen has raised  interest rates , curbed lending and imposed
limits on home purchases to rein in property and consumer prices.
Inflation has exceeded a 2011 target of about 4 percent, set in
March, every month this year.  The government is likely to maintain tightening policies
until consumer-price gains recede “significantly,” according
to the report.  Stimulate Consumption  New policies this year including reductions in personal
income tax, increases in minimum-wages and improvements in
pension coverage should help to stimulate private consumption,
the ADB said.  China’s working-age population will peak in 2015 and labor
shortages will become more common, posing new difficulties for
policy makers, according to today’s report. The country will
have 440 million people aged over 60 by 2050, accounting for
31.4 percent of the population, compared with a world average of
21.9 percent, the bank said, citing estimates from the  United
Nations .  The aging population is particularly challenging for policy
makers as the country’s real income level of around $4,000 per
capita compares with $16,200 in  South Korea  and $14,900 in  Japan 
when these countries had the same percentage of elderly, the
bank said. A weak social safety net, with most old people
depending on family support, exacerbates the situation, it said.  The government will need to develop a well-functioning
finance sector to underpin pension reform and boost old-age
support, according to the report. Currently only 15 percent of
the working-age population has any sort of social security net
and the pension system is “far from optimal,” the ADB said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  