-- 
Aerospace Association Chief Says Defense Industry Is Fragile

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-09-14T17:14:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/aerospace-industries-says-defense-industry-is-fragile.html
The head of the  Aerospace
Industries Association  described the U.S. defense industry as
“fragile” as it heads into a period of tighter budgets.  AIA Chief Executive Officer Marion Blakey, speaking in
Washington, said Defense Secretary Leon Panetta has a “very
clear” focus on protecting the defense industry.  The trade group, which represents manufacturers such as
 Boeing Co. (BA) ,  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,
has launched a campaign to stave off cuts in the national
security budget as a special congressional committee seeks to
find $1.5 trillion in deficit reduction throughout the federal
government. Company executives met with Panetta yesterday.  Blakey said she expects about $460 billion in cuts to the
Pentagon budget over the next decade. Her calculations include
$78 billion already planned by the previous defense secretary,
 Robert Gates , and expected national security cuts from $350
billion mandated under the Budget Control Act to as much as $400
billion found through a Pentagon review.  “That is simply more than we can sustain,” Blakey said
today at an industry conference in  Washington . “Defense has
already cut to the bone” under the pending efforts to reduce
the deficit, she said.  If Congress fails to act on cuts identified by the
congressional panel, the budget control deal calls for an
automatic reduction of an additional $500 billion in defense
spending, not including interest.  That action could boost the U.S. unemployment rate by a
percentage point, said AIA Chairman  Jim Albaugh , the president
and chief executive officer of Boeing Commercial Airplanes. The
rate in August was 9.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  