-- 
Air India Board Said to Meet on Delivery Plans for Boeing 787s

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 
2011-09-14T19:40:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/air-india-board-said-to-plan-discussion-on-787-as-losses-persist.html
Directors for Air India Ltd., the
money-losing carrier getting jet fuel on credit, will meet today
to discuss delivery and operations plans for its  Boeing Co. (BA)  787
Dreamliners, two people familiar with the matter said.  The agenda for the New Delhi session includes the status of
the 787 order and Air India’s readiness to add the 27 jets, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak publicly. The board may talk about other 787
topics, said one person, who declined to elaborate.  Television channel ET Now reported two days ago that the
state-owned airline doesn’t have money to pay for the jets,
citing Civil Aviation Minister Vayalar Ravi. In June, people
familiar with Air India’s strategy told Bloomberg that the
airline was considering whether to defer deliveries.  The 27 planes have a list price of $5.5 billion. Airlines
typically get a discount.  Air India  ordered the Dreamliners in
2005, and isn’t due to receive the first one until the fourth
quarter after more than three years of development delays.  An airline spokesman, K. Swaminathan, declined to comment
on any board discussions.  Ravi told Parliament in August that Air India is entitled
to $145 million in “liquidated damages” because of the
delivery delays on the 787, after the airline previously said it
was seeking $840 million in compensation. Chicago-based Boeing
has made a settlement offer, he said, without elaboration.  Boeing has repeatedly said it is in talks with airlines
about compensation for delays, while declining to discuss
specifics.  Fuel on Credit  Ravi also said in August that Air India would get  jet fuel 
on credit for as many as three months to help ease a cash
shortage, and said that the airline’s loss for the year ended
March 31, 2011, may be 69.9 billion rupees ($1.47 billion).  Air India, which has reported annual losses every year
since it was combined with state-owned Indian Airlines in 2007,
has asked the government for 175 billion rupees to help cut its
debt of 400 billion rupees as of March 31.  Boeing will deliver the first 787 plane to initial customer
All Nippon Airways Co. in August or September.  The Wall Street Journal reported on the board meeting
earlier yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  