-- 
Canadian Stocks Rise as ECB Offers Loans to Tame Credit Crisis

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-09-15T20:38:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/alarmforce-valeant-pharmaceuticals-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose for a third
day, led by financial and energy companies, on optimism that
 Europe  is working to tame its debt crisis.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ,  Canada ’s largest lender by assets,
gained 3.2 percent after the  European Central Bank  coordinated
with international policy makers to lend dollars to banks.
 Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , Canada’s second-biggest energy
company by market value, advanced 2.2 percent as crude futures
climbed.  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s second-largest gold producer
by market value, fell 1.1 percent as the metal dropped to a
September low.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index increased 131.46
points, or 1.1 percent, to 12,424.84. The index has gained 2.3
percent over three days.  “When you’re seeing the coordinated effort from the
central banks to lend dollars to the euro-area banks, I think
that’s giving investors a little bit more confidence,” said
Allison Mendes, a  money manager  at Manulife Asset Management in
Toronto. The unit of  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  oversees about
$217 billion. “This is definitely welcome news for investors.”  The S&P/TSX is set to decline for a seventh straight month,
the longest streak since 1984, as energy and financial stocks
have retreated on concern the global economic recovery is in
jeopardy. The Canadian stock benchmark has plunged 12 percent,
and the MSCI World Index 13 percent, since Feb. 28 as bond
yields in the most-heavily indebted European countries have
surged on concern  Greece  may default.  Lending Dollars  The ECB said it will lend dollars to euro-area banks to
ensure they have enough of the U.S. currency through the end of
the year. The euro rallied the most since Aug. 15 against the
dollar.  Greek 10-year government bond yields fell the most since
July 22 after German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy said they’re “convinced” Greece will
stay in the euro area. European policy makers are to meet in
Wroclaw,  Poland , tomorrow to discuss how they will implement the
expansion of the euro region’s new bailout fund.  Stocks extended their gains after the U.S. Federal Reserve
said industrial production in the country increased 0.2 percent
last month. Economists had forecast no change, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  All S&P/TSX banks and the three largest insurers climbed.
Royal Bank increased 3.2 percent to C$47.47.  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) , its biggest domestic rival, rose 2.5 percent to C$75.17.  Geared to Rates  Manulife, North America’s fourth-largest insurer, rallied
6.3 percent, the most since November, to C$12.91. “Manulife is
a stock very geared to long-term  interest rates ,”  Peter Routledge , an analyst at National Bank of Canada, said in a
telephone interview from Toronto. “If the market believes long-
term interest rates are headed back up, Manulife’s stock should
benefit.”  Energy stocks gained as crude futures advanced 0.6 percent.
Canadian Natural increased 2.2 percent to C$35.22.  Cenovus
Energy Inc. (CVE) , the country’s fifth-largest energy company, climbed
3.3 percent to C$34.10. Vermilion Energy, Inc., an oil and gas
producer with operations in  Australia , Europe and Canada, jumped
5.4 percent to C$44.71.  S&P/TSX gold stocks fell for a fifth day as the metal
dropped 2.5 percent in  New York . Goldcorp declined 1.1 percent
to C$49.83.  Eldorado Gold Corp. (ELD) , which mines in  China  and
 Turkey , decreased 2.8 percent to C$19.78.  China Gold
International Resources Corp Ltd. (CGG)  lost 5.1 percent to C$3.74,
extending its weekly plunge to 24 percent.  Silvercorp Rebounds  Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) , which operates in China, climbed
6.8 percent to C$6.90 after saying it bought C$31.2 million
($31.6 million) of its own shares. The stock plunged to the
lowest since February 2010 this week after Muddy Waters LLC, the
research firm that published assertions of financial
manipulation at Sino-Forest Corp., said it had sold Silvercorp
short. The Ontario Securities Commission  said Aug. 26  that Sino-
Forest “appears to have misrepresented some of its revenue.”  Base-metal and coal producers gained as copper futures
rebounded from a 2011 low.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , Canada’s
second-largest publicly traded copper producer, advanced 4.5
percent to C$21.13.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s biggest
company in the industry, increased 2.2 percent to C$40.01.  Propane distributor  Superior Plus Corp. (SPB)  sank 7.4 percent to
a record-low C$8.30. The shares have tumbled 12 percent since
DBRS Ltd. cut its credit ratings on the company Sept. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  