-- 
All Blacks Captain McCaw, Muliaina Join Carter on Rugby World Cup Sideline

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-15T00:35:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/all-blacks-mccaw-muliaina-ruled-out-of-japan-match-because-of-injuries.html
New Zealand  captainRichie McCaw
and full-back Mils Muliaina, the All Blacks’ two most-
experienced players, will miss tomorrow’s Rugby World Cup match
against Japan because of injuries.  McCaw, who was due to become the first New Zealander to
play 100 Test matches, suffered a minor calf strain in his left
leg in a training session yesterday, while Muliaina had a tight
right hamstring, the New Zealand Rugby Union said. Full-back
Israel Dagg also suffered a right abdominal strain.  McCaw and Muliaina, who has played 98 Tests, join All
Blacks playmaker Dan Carter in being withdrawn from the Japan
game as tournament favorite New Zealand seeks its second win in
Pool A after opening the 20-nation World Cup by beating Tonga.  “It was a bad day at the office as far as injuries are
concerned but the good news is that all the injuries are not
serious,” All Blacks team doctor Deb Robinson said in an e-
mailed statement. “There would be risk of further injury to
these players if we let them play.”  The injuries forced a reshuffle of the 22-man squad to take
on the 13th-ranked Japanese in Hamilton. The team will now be
captained by hooker  Keven Mealamu .  Isaia Toeava will start at full-back, Adam Thomson shifts
to openside flanker and Victor Vito comes off the replacements’
bench to start at No. 8. Second-rower Anthony Boric takes Vito’s
spot on the bench.  “Injuries are something that we all have to deal with and
it’s great that we have versatility in the squad,” All Blacks
coach Graham Henry said.  Carter was yesterday withdrawn from the team because of a
stiff back and will be replaced by  Colin Slade  at fly-half.  REVISED ALL BLACKS TEAM: Isaia Toeava, Cory Jane, Conrad
Smith, Ma’a Nonu, Richard Kahui, Colin Slade, Andy Ellis, Victor
Vito, Adam Thomson, Jerome Kaino, Sam Whitelock, Brad Thorn,
Owen Franks, Keven Mealamu, Tony Woodcock.  Replacements: Andrew Hore,  John Afoa ,  Ali Williams ,  Anthony
Boric ,  Jimmy Cowan , Piri Weepu, Sonny Bill Williams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  