-- 
American Express Seeks Acquisitions to Expand in Online, Mobile

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-09-14T17:03:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/american-express-seeks-acquisitions-to-expand-e-commerce-mobile-payments.html
American Express Co. (AXP)  is looking at
large international acquisitions that will help it benefit from
booming demand for mobile payments and online commerce in
emerging markets, said Executive Vice President David Messenger.  The New York-based company, the biggest credit-card issuer
by purchases, is considering deals in developing regions such as
 China , and investments in or purchases of smaller Silicon Valley
startups with valuable technology, Messenger said in an
interview this week. Last year, American Express agreed to
acquire Loyalty Partner, a marketing firm with customers mainly
in Germany, Poland and  India , for $660 million.  “You shouldn’t assume that’s the largest acquisition we
can do,” said Messenger, who was  hired  last year to run a new
online and mobile business unit at American Express. “We are
very active, and acquisitions are a key component of our
strategy.”  American Express wants to gain a bigger foothold in the
growing market for Internet commerce and payments over wireless
devices, seeking to challenge rivals such as  Visa Inc. (V)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , which have announced their own mobile-transaction
services. Payments made with mobile phones alone  will reach $670
billion  globally by 2015, up from $240 billion this year,
according to consultant Juniper Research.  In  developing countries  such as India and China, a growing
number of consumers are acquiring credit cards and smartphones.
China will surpass the U.S. as the world’s largest credit-card
market by 2020,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  said last year.  Mobile Transactions  American Express executives expect new payment methods,
such as transactions made on mobile phones, to leapfrog
traditional plastic cards in those countries, Daniel Schulman,
group president of enterprise growth, said in August at a
company meeting.  Acquisition targets may be similar to Loyalty Partner,
 David Robertson , publisher of industry newsletter  the Nilson
Report , said in an interview.  “That loyalty marketing company is indicative of what AmEx
sees as a model,” said Robertson, who is based in Carpinteria,
 California . “There will be indigenous companies in emerging
markets AmEx may see as desirable.”  Robertson said the company may seek to generate revenue
from special offers and marketing programs, in addition to
payments.  American Express is interested in making “targeted”
acquisitions of companies “with unique assets that complement
our businesses and capabilities,” Chief Executive Officer
Kenneth Chenault said in August.  Past Purchases  Besides Loyalty Partner, American Express agreed last year
to buy Accertify Inc., which helps merchants combat fraudulent
transactions, such as during online purchases.  Loyalty Partner helps companies manage loyalty programs and
cards and sends out direct mail and e-mail newsletters. American
Express has also made investments in smaller companies. In
April, it led a  $19 million investment  into Payfone, a provider
of mobile payments.  American Express announced a program in March called  Serve ,
an electronic wallet that lets consumers make payments to each
other and retailers via phones and computers. On Aug. 1,  Verizon
Wireless  said it will integrate Serve on many of its mobile
phones and tablets. American Express aims to market the service
more widely in the coming months, Messenger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  