-- 
Manning to Remain on Colts Roster Until Ruled Out by Doctors, Polian Says

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-14T17:26:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/manning-remains-on-colts-roster.html
Peyton Manning  will remain on the
Indianapolis Colts’ active roster as long as doctors say there’s
a chance the Pro Bowl quarterback can play this season following
neck surgery, General Manager Bill Polian said.  Manning sat out last week’s season-opener -- the first time
in his 14-year National Football League career he’s missed a
game -- after having vertebrae fused in his neck.  The Colts have said Manning is out indefinitely and doctors
haven’t given a time frame on when the four-time NFL Most
Valuable Player may be able to return to action. Polian said
Manning won’t be placed on injured reserve, which would rule the
quarterback out for the year and clear a roster spot for another
player, if there’s a chance he can play this year.  “That being said, it bears very, very strong emphasis that
he will not be allowed back on the field until the doctors are
satisfied that he’s 100 percent and ready to go, regardless of
what occurs with the season or doesn’t occur with the season,”
Polian said on the  team’s website . “His long-term health is
what’s the most important thing is here.”  The Colts took a similar route with former safety Bob
Sanders last season. Sanders, the NFL’s Defensive Player of the
Year in 2007, tore his right biceps in the Colts’ opening game
and remained on the active roster until Dec. 8., 13 weeks into
the season.  “The prognosis, which is just that -- it’s a guesstimate
the doctors give you, it’s not cast in concrete -- was that Bob
had a chance to make it back by the end of the season,” Polian
said. “That did not occur.”  Lost Opener  Without Manning at quarterback for the first time since the
1997 season, the Colts were routed by the Houston Texans 34-7 in
last week’s opener.  Kerry Collins  replaced Manning and will
start this week’s home game against  Cleveland .  “We’re playing the hand that’s dealt us, and we’re going
to play it to the best of our ability,” said Polian. “We’re
not going to make excuses. We’re not going to hang our heads.”  The Colts have made the playoffs 11 of the past 12 seasons
with Manning, who Polian said is recuperating from surgery.  “That will take some time,” Polian said. “We’re still
left with the question of how soon the nerve in the arm which
essentially controls the triceps muscle will regenerate. We
don’t know any time frame on either of those situations, and
there’s no point in speculating upon it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  