-- 
Arab Investors May Help Rescue Greek Economy

-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 
2011-09-14T21:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/arab-investors-may-help-rescue-greek-economy-trade-group-says.html
Arab money may help come to the
rescue of debt-ravaged  Greece , according to the man responsible
for fostering business ties with the oil-rich region.  Investors from the  Middle East  are waiting for Greece to
detail plans to raise 50 billion euros ($68.5 billion) by the
end of 2015 from state asset sales as part of its bailout
conditions, said Christos Folias, president of the  Arab-Hellenic
Chamber of Commerce and Development . Greek first-half exports to
the Arab world rose 49 percent to $14.8 billion, he said.  “Arab capital is the biggest that can invest heavily and
immediately in Greece and Arab investors are firm believers in
Greece’s growth prospects and that the country will emerge from
its crisis,” Folias, a former deputy finance minister, said in
an interview at his Athens office on Sept. 9.  Greece, scrambling to avert a debt default that’s
threatening the future of the euro, is trying to build trade
links with countries as the economy shrinks more than the
government previously forecast. At the same time, investors are
looking to buy assets at a discount.  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  and Alpha Bank SA are merging to
form the country’s largest bank, with Qatari-backed Paramount
Services Holding Ltd. holding the biggest stake in the new
entity after the transaction.  Qatar also plans to develop the site of the former Athens
airport and is awaiting the findings of a committee set up to
study how Qataris can invest in Greece, Prime Minister Sheikh
Hamad bin Jasim bin Al-Thani said June 9.  Less Competitive  The main obstacle is still bureaucracy and government
initiatives to fast-track procedures don’t go far enough, said
Folias, whose organization has links with 22 Arab countries.  “If we want Greece to solve its own problems, the country
has not to become more competitive than yesterday, but more
competitive than other countries in the region so our neighbors
don’t take potential investments away from Greece,” he said.  Greece fell seven places to 90th, the lowest ranking of the
27  European Union members , in the 2011/12 global competitiveness
list published on Sept. 7 by the Geneva-based  World Economic
Forum . It trailed behind neighboring countries Bulgaria, Romania
and  Turkey ,  with  “inefficient government bureaucracy” as the
main obstacle for foreign investment in Greece.  To help make Greece more attractive to Arab investors, the
Arab-Hellenic Chamber last week asked the Greek government to
consider a reduction in the corporate  tax rate  for Arab-owned
companies to 15 percent from 20 percent starting next year.  Other proposed initiatives include creating joint ventures
between Arab and Greek companies and making the northern port of
Thessaloniki a bespoke “saloon-door” for shipping to and from
the Middle East, Folias said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  