-- 
Tarmac-Delay Rule Making U.S. Flight Cancellations More Likely, GAO Says

-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 
2011-09-14T22:10:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/tarmac-delay-rule-making-u-s-flight-cancellations-more-likely-gao-says.html
The U.S. government’s effort to
eliminate longer delays on airport tarmacs has made it more
likely that airlines will cancel flights, according to a  study 
by the Government Accountability Office.  U.S. airlines were 24 percent more likely to more than
three times as likely to cancel a flight in 2010 after the
three-hour tarmac delay rule went into effect, compared with the
previous year, according to the GAO report.  Lengthier delays on the ground have been almost wiped out
since the rule took effect, federal records show. U.S. airlines
must offer passengers a chance to get off stuck planes or face
fines as high as $27,500 a customer, according to the
Transportation Department limit that took effect in April 2010.
It was extended to non-U.S. carriers last month.  The rule “is associated with a greater likelihood of
cancellations for flights that taxi out onto the tarmac,” the
GAO said, citing a review of flight records and statistical
modeling. “Furthermore, our results suggest that the greater
likelihood of cancellation increases with the time a plane stays
on the tarmac.”  Likelihood of Cancellation  Airlines were 24 percent more likely to cancel a flight
before leaving the gate during the most delay-prone months of
the year, May through September. The GAO compared those months
in 2009 against the same period in 2010.  The longer an aircraft sat on the tarmac, the more likely
the airline was to cancel the flight, the analysis found.  A flight parked on the tarmac for as much as an hour was 31
percent more likely to be canceled, it showed. Planes that sat
two to three hours were more than three times as likely to be
canceled, according to the report.  The U.S. Transportation Department and a passenger advocate
defended the tarmac rule and questioned the GAO’s figures.  “I completely disagree with it,”  Kate Hanni , who founded
FlyersRights.org after her flight was stranded on the ground in
2006, said in a telephone interview. “The flying public
overwhelmingly supports this tarmac rule.”  In its response to the report, the DOT argued that the
tarmac rule is justified by how passengers were treated during
longer delays on the ground, sometimes remaining for hours
without access to food, water or working lavatories.  “The U.S. Department of Transportation’s actions to
protect airline consumers have virtually ended extended tarmac
delays and have strengthened basic rights for airline
passengers,”  Olivia Alair , a spokeswoman for the agency, said
in an e-mail. “And, so far, our analysis has not indicated that
the rule has directly affected cancellation rate.  Tarmac delays three hours and longer fell to 20 from 693
during the first year the rule was in effect, the report showed.  Rural Delays Higher  In separate findings from the same report, the GAO found
that DOT’s data undercount the extent of flight delays and
disruptions at airports serving communities with less than
50,000 people.  The DOT requires the largest airlines to report on on-time
arrivals. That leaves 31 percent of airline flights carrying 15
percent of passengers, mostly on small carriers serving rural
communities, that are not reported, the DOT said.  Flight disruptions are worse at these rural airports, the
report said. Since 2005, flights from these rural airports were
about 3 1/2 times more likely to be canceled or diverted as
flights from large metropolitan communities, the report said.  The GAO used data from a private firm, FlightStats, to
study the rural delays.  The delays at rural airports aren’t reflected in the DOT
delay data. The DOT statistics show delays, cancellations and
diversions are slightly less likely at rural airports, GAO said.  Even though all the major airlines report their delays to
the government, some of the unreported delays occur on flights
that passengers book through those airlines, the GAO said. In
those cases, the major carriers contracted with small regional
airlines for the flights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  