-- 
Asia Stocks at Lowest in a Year as China Signals Europe Bailout Reluctance

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-09-14T10:17:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/asia-stocks-gain-on-easing-europe-credit-freeze-concern-south-korea-falls.html
Asian stocks fell, with the
regional benchmark index set for its lowest close in more than a
year, after the Chinese premier said economies “must put their
own houses in order” and not rely on bailouts from China.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index earlier swung between gains and
losses after French lenders dismissed concerns over their access
to funds, easing concern that Europe’s debt crisis may lead to a
freezing of credit markets.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the
nation’s largest lender by market value, slumped 2.5 percent in
Sydney. Samsung Electronics Co. led technology shares lower
after Apple Inc. won backing from a German court for a ban on
sales of a Samsung product in the country.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 1.7 percent to 116.29 as
of 7:16 p.m. in Tokyo after earlier rising as much as 0.3
percent. The measure is set to close at its lowest level since
Aug. 25, 2010, having erased all the gains since U.S. Federal
Reserve Chairman unveiled a $600 billion, second round of asset
purchases that came to be known as QE2. All 10 industry groups
on the gauge declined.  The measure slumped 8.6 percent last month, the most since
May 2010, amid concern global economic growth is slowing as
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis spreads and after  Standard &
Poor’s  cut the U.S. government’s credit rating.  “The Chinese Premier’s comments sounded sensible to me,”
said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about $1.1 billion at
Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney.  “But investors at
this time seem to want instant gratification. This stance by the
Chinese clearly won’t provide that.”  Nikkei, Kospi  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slid 1.1 percent,
reversing an earlier gain of 0.6 percent.  South Korea ’s Kospi
Index dropped 3.5 percent after being closed for the past two
days, when the MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 2.1 percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index declined 1.6 percent even
after a  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey of
1,200 consumers showed that the nation’s consumer confidence
rebounded from a two-year low in September, ending a four month
decline.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index climbed less than 0.1 percent,
reversing an earlier 2.1 percent drop. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index rose 0.6 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1
percent after falling as much as 1.5 percent today. In  New York ,
the index advanced for a second day, rising 0.9 percent
yesterday, after BNP Paribas SA,  France ’s biggest bank, and
Societe Generale SA, the country’s No. 3 lender by assets,
rebounded in Paris trading after rejecting concerns over their
access to funding.  China  Remarks  “Markets rallied on rumors China will be buying Italian
bonds and Wen’s comments today ends that speculation,” said Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-based  fund manager  at Schroders Plc,
which oversaw $323 billion as of June 30. “There’s no easy way
out of this sovereign debt crisis as Europe’s problems are
structural in nature. We could see further downside.”  Stocks fell today as Chinese Premier Wen signaled developed
nations should cut deficits and create jobs rather than relying
on China to bail out the world economy. Stocks had gained in the
U.S. on Sept. 12 after the Financial Times reported that Italy
aims to sell “significant” quantities of bonds and stakes in
strategic companies to China.  “Countries must first put their own houses in order,” Wen
said today at the  World Economic Forum  in Dalian, China.
“Developed countries must take responsible fiscal and monetary
policies. What is most important now is to prevent the further
spread of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe.”  Eyes on Europe  Commonwealth Bank of  Australia  sank 2.5 percent to A$44,
the biggest drag on the Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index and
reversing an earlier gain. Canon Inc., which depends on Europe
for about a third of its sales, slid 4.1 percent to 3,295 yen,
the second-largest negative influence on the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index. Esprit Holdings Ltd., a retailer that gets most of its
revenue from Europe, dropped 1.9 percent to HK$18.30, its lowest
close since August 2003, ahead of reporting earnings tomorrow.  “We’ve seen stocks bounce around a lot, with all eyes
still on Europe,” said Matt Riordan, who helps manage close to
$6.6 billion in Sydney at Paradice Investment Management Pty.
“The key from here is how governments manage the downside, in
terms of how they restructure Greek debt and shore up their
banks. The risk beyond this is to what extent this spreads into
some of the larger countries.”  Tepco Slides  Among other stocks that fell, Samsung Electronics dropped
3.5 percent to 753,000 won. Apple Inc., the world’s most
valuable technology company, won backing from a German court for
a ban on sales of Samsung’s Galaxy 10.1 tablet computer in the
country. Samsung filed an appeal, the Dusseldorf Regional Court
said in a statement.  China Overseas Land and Investment Ltd., a developer
controlled by the nation’s construction ministry, fell 3.6
percent to HK$13.78 on concern of reduced property sales. The
volume of China’s housing transactions will probably decline in
the second-half, Credit Suisse Group AG said in a report today.
China Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled developer, dropped
6 percent to HK$10.40, while Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd.,
a developer based in the southern city of Guangzhou, lost 6.2
percent to HK$3.50.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 14 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 6.7 percent drop by the  S&P
500  and a 20 percent loss by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 11.8 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 11.8 for the S&P
500 and 9.2 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  