-- 
Asia Currencies Weaken on Europe Debt Crisis, ADB Growth-Outlook Downgrade

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-09-14T09:17:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/asia-currencies-weaken-on-europe-debt-crisis-adb-growth-outlook-downgrade.html
Asian currencies weakened, led by
South Korea’s won, as concern the region’s economic growth is
slowing and  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening sapped demand for
emerging-market assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index dropped to its
lowest level in five months after the Asian Development Bank cut
its 2011 growth forecast for Asia excluding  Japan  today.  Bank
Indonesia  intervened to support the rupiah after it plunged as
much as 2.6 percent against the dollar. The  Reserve Bank  of
India also stepped in to buy the rupee, a Mumbai-based trader at
a state-owned bank said, declining to be identified because he
isn’t authorized to speak to the media.  The won slumped 2.7 percent to 1,107.70 per dollar as of
3 p.m. in Seoul from Sept. 9, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rupiah weakened 1.5 percent to 8,843 from
yesterday, the Philippine peso dropped 0.6 percent to 43.225 and
Malaysia’s ringgit fell 0.4 percent to 3.0805. Korean financial
markets were closed for the first two days of this week for
public holidays.  “The European debt concern prevails in the market, which
weighs on the riskier assets like the Asian currencies,” said
Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “There is concern about the economic
slowdown in  Asia , which adds to weak sentiment.”  The Asia Dollar Index touched 117.18, the lowest level
since March 30. Manila-based ADB cut its growth projection to
7.5 percent from an April estimate of 7.8 percent. It raised the
region’s inflation forecast to 5.8 percent this year, from 5.3
percent.  Currency Intervention  Bank Indonesia said it stepped in to halt losses in the
rupiah today. The central bank “intervened in the rupiah and
bond markets,” Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said. Bank
Indonesia needed to calm the market and doesn’t want the
currency to fall further, he said.  India’s rupee fell 0.4 percent to 47.785 per dollar after
plunging to as low as 48.01, the weakest level since September
2009. Inflation in  India  accelerated to 9.78 percent in August
from a year earlier, the most in more than a year, data showed
today. India’s industrial production rose in July at the slowest
pace since 2009, a report showed this week.  The Bank of  Thailand  sees increased risks to global growth,
which may pose a larger threat to the domestic economy than
inflation, Praipol Koomsup, a member of the central bank’s
monetary policy committee, said on Sept. 12.  Won Plummets  The won reached a five-month low as markets reopened after
the Chuseok holiday.  Greece ’s budget deficit widened 22 percent
in the first eight months of the year, fanning speculation the
country will fail to meet conditions for further bailout funds.  French lenders Credit Agricole SA and Societe Generale SA
had their debt ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service today
because of their Greek holdings.  “The won is weakening as  market sentiment  worsened on the
European debt crisis during Chuseok,” said Yu Won Jun, a
currency dealer at Korea Exchange Bank in  Seoul . “Currency
losses will depend on exporters’ selling dollars to capitalize
on the relatively strong dollar, and government intervention to
stabilize currency movements.”  Taiwan’s dollar declined for an eighth day, the longest
losing streak since February 2009, as foreign funds sold $328
million more Taiwan stocks than they bought. The currency
slipped 0.5 percent to NT$29.625, according to Taipei Forex Inc.  “Lingering worries over euro zone’s debt problems seem to
be weighing on investor sentiment,” said Emmanuel Ng, a
currency strategist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in
 Singapore . “This is probably causing selling of Asian
currencies.”  Elsewhere, the Singapore dollar declined 0.4 percent to
S$1.2477 against the greenback and the Thai baht slid 0.2
percent to 30.26, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 China ’s yuan gained 0.04 percent to 6.3964.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  