-- 
ATEBank, Hellenic Post Losses Widen on Greek Debt Swap Plans

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-09-14T16:50:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/atebank-hellenic-post-losses-widen-on-greek-debt-swap-plans.html
Agricultural Bank of Greece (ATE)  SA and
Hellenic Postbank SA, two Greek state-controlled lenders, posted
wider losses in the first half on higher provisions due to plans
to participate in a voluntary swap of Greek  government bonds .  ATEBank, as Agricultural Bank is called, posted a first-
half net loss of 905.1 million euros ($1.24 billion) after a
writedown of Greek bond holdings, compared with a year earlier
loss of 109.9 million euros, according to an  Athens bourse 
filing today. Hellenic Postbank’s net loss widened to 498.4
million euros in the period, from a 55.1 million euros a year
earlier, according to a statement posted on  its web site  today.  European Union leaders agreed on a second, 159 billion
euro, financing plan for  Greece  on July 21, which includes
private sector involvement, or PSI, as the program is known.  ATEBank’s “participation in the PSI program strongly
supports accuracy and transparency of its financial statements
while shielding the Group against future risks,” ATEBank
Chairman Theodoros Pantalakis said in the filing.  The lender wrote down the book value of 5.2 billion euros
of bonds eligible for inclusion in the debt swap that will help
fund Greece until 2014. ATEBank set aside additional provisions
of 836.4 million euros due to its plan to participate in the
debt swap.  The bank restructuring plan, which includes selling non-
banking assets, will be adjusted and the lender will proceed
with a capital increase, Pantalakis said. ATEBank was one of
eight European banks to fail EU stress tests on July 15 as
regulators found it had insufficient capital. The lender said at
the time that it needed 713 million euros to meet the 5 percent
Core Tier 1 capital benchmark.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 Acullen8@bloomberg.net  