-- 
Attacks in Sudan’s Darfur Region Fall 70 Percent in Three Years, UN Says

-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 
2011-09-14T08:59:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/attacks-in-sudan-s-darfur-region-fall-70-percent-in-three-years-un-says.html
The number of armed attacks in
 Sudan ’s western region of Darfur has declined 70 percent in the
past three years, the United Nations-African Union joint special
representative, Ibrahim Gambari, said.  Gambari said a  UN-African Union peacekeeping force  known as
Unamid, which numbers more than 17,000 troops and 4,500 police
officers, has succeeded in bringing stability to the region.  “Unamid has been successful in stabilizing the situation in
Darfur and pushing the peace talks forward between different
parties,” Gambari told reporters today in Khartoum, Sudan’s
capital.  Insurgents in Darfur took up arms in 2003, accusing
President Umar al-Bashir’s government of neglecting the region.
The conflict has led to the deaths of as many as 300,000 people,
mainly due to illness and starvation, and forced about 2.7
million to flee their homes, according to UN estimates. The
Sudanese government has put the death toll at about 10,000.  The main rebel movement in Darfur, the  Justice and Equality
Movement , boycotted the signing of a Qatar-brokered peace
agreement between al-Bashir’s government and the Liberation and
Justice Movement, a smaller rebel faction.  JEM leader Ibrahim Khalil returned to Darfur this month
from Libya following the fall of Muammar Qaddafi, el-Taher el-
Feki, chairman of JEM’s legislative council, said by phone Sept.
10 from  London .  “We call JEM to join the  peace process  because this is not
the time to unite for war, it’s the time to unite for peace,”
Gambari said. “Too many people have been suffering and have been
devastated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Karl Maier  at 
 kmaier2@bloomberg.net . 