-- 
Australian Confidence Rebounds on Interest-Rate Outlook

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-14T01:53:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/australian-confidence-rebounds-on-interest-rate-outlook-1-.html
Australian  consumer confidence 
rebounded from a two-year low as the central bank indicated it
will keep the developed world’s highest borrowing costs on hold
to gauge fallout from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The sentiment index rose 8.1 percent to 96.9 in September,
ending a four-month decline, according to a  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
and Melbourne Institute survey of 1,200 consumers taken Sept. 4-
11 and released today in Sydney. Most mortgages in Australia
have variable rates that move in step with the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia’s benchmark borrowing cost.  The sentiment improvement “emphasizes just how important
interest rates are to households,” Bill Evans, Westpac’s chief
economist, said in an e-mailed statement. “Concrete evidence of
the improved outlook for  interest rates  came shortly after the
August survey when the major banks actually lowered their fixed
rate mortgage rates.”  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled in a speech this month
a willingness to keep rates on hold while the nation’s consumers
retrench and global financial markets create instability for the
“foreseeable future.” The central bank board said in August it
had considered raising the nation’s benchmark rate to cool
inflation.  Every component of the index increased in September,
including measures of family finances, the 12-month outlook for
household budgets and attitudes about buying a major household
item.  Currency Gains  After the report, the Australian dollar gained as much as
0.6 percent to $1.0371 from $1.0312 late yesterday in  New York .
The local currency has advanced about 10 percent in the past
year.  In his Sept. 7 speech, Stevens said households watching
global and local events “may continue their precautionary
behavior for longer than otherwise” and help weaken demand
compared with the central bank’s August forecasts.  Monthly employment growth in Australia averaged 2,800 from
January through August this year, less than a 10th of the
average of 30,500 job gains in the first eight months of 2010.
Australia’s currency and benchmark stock index dropped last
month and the MSCI World Index of equities sank 7.3 percent as
concern increased that the Greek fiscal crisis would drag down
other euro-area economies.  Even so,  Australia ’s gross domestic product expanded 1.2
percent last quarter, the fastest pace in four years, driven by
a recovery from natural disasters in the nation’s northeast at
the start of the year.  The GDP report “gained particularly wide media coverage
and would have boosted households’ spirits,” Evans said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  