-- 
Azeri Spy Drone Downed Over Disputed Region, Karabakh Army Says

-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 
2011-09-14T17:09:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/azeri-spy-drone-downed-over-disputed-region-karabakh-army-says.html
Nagorno-Karabakh, a region that
broke away from  Azerbaijan  after the collapse of the  Soviet
Union  in 1991, said it shot down an unmanned Azeri drone over
its territory on Sept. 12.  The unmanned aircraft was downed to prevent similar
reconnaissance flights over the disputed area, which have become
more frequent along the border in recent days, the Karabakh
Defense Army said in a  statement  on its website today.  Eldar Sabiroglu, the head of the Azeri Defense Ministry’s
press service, and Teymur Abdullayev, a spokesman at the
ministry, didn’t answer phone calls today seeking comment.  Oil-exporting Azerbaijan is using energy income to acquire
modern weaponry, including unmanned planes from Israel, with
whom the Caspian Sea nation started joint production of drones,
President  Ilham Aliyev  said in April. Today’s incident marks the
first time an Azeri spy plane has ever been shot down over the
majority-Armenian populated region.  The Azeri Defense Ministry has previously not denied
Armenian media reports that some of the drones produced with
Israel are being used to monitor Nagorno-Karabakh.  Azerbaijan and landlocked Armenia fought a war over the
region that left tens of thousands of people dead and more than
1 million displaced. The territory remains a potential
flashpoint in a region where Russia in 2008 fought a five-day
war with Georgia after separatist tensions flared up.  Russia, which borders the countries along with Iran, Turkey
and Georgia, brokered a cease-fire in 1994. Talks on a final
settlement, mediated by  Russia , the U.S. and  France , have failed
to produce a binding agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  