-- 
Barclays Leads LBO Financing Retreat After Del Monte Slap

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-09-14T22:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/barclays-leads-lbo-financing-retreat-after-del-monte-criticism.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  is leading investment
banks in a retreat from a form of leveraged buyout financing
that has made the firms and their clients vulnerable to
allegations of a conflict of interest.  Barclays changed its policy following a February opinion
from a Delaware judge, who said the bank deceived  Del Monte
Foods Co. (DLM)  when it advised the company on a sale and failed to
disclose its plans to also arrange funding for the buyer until
late in the process. That funding, also known as sell-side
financing, allowed Barclays to collect about twice as much in
fees than it would have gotten from just offering M&A advice.  Since the Del Monte opinion, no firm has offered sell-side
financing for a U.S. public company buyout valued at more than
$1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the
previous 2 1/2 years, it was offered about 40 percent of the
time for deals of that size. At least nine major investment
banks, including Barclays, have reviewed their lending
practices, said people familiar with the matter, who declined to
be identified because the discussions are internal.  “This was a big hit to a bank’s reputation and got the
attention of every bank across  Wall Street ,” said Larry Hamermesh, professor of corporate law at Widener University in
Wilmington,  Delaware . “It does seem like the banks are
exercising across-the-board caution after Del Monte.”  Financing Fees  Barclays says it disagrees with the judge’s statements on
Del Monte and has safeguards in place when it is advising
sellers on transactions.  In the Del Monte takeover, Barclays was paid $23.5 million
as an adviser for Del Monte and $21 million to $24 million for
financing provided to a buyer group led by New York-based KKR &
Co., according to the Delaware lawsuit.  Chancery Court Judge James Travis Laster said in his Feb.
14 opinion that Del Monte would probably have hired another bank
if it knew Barclays planned to “double-dip” for fees. The bank
was added as defendant in the shareholder lawsuit along with  Del
Monte  and the buyer group after the judge’s comments. All the
defendants deny the claims against them.  ‘Established Safeguards’  Barclays has stopped providing sell-side financing for
public buyouts and will decide whether to keep its new rule on
in place after the court reaches a final decision, said the
people familiar with the matter, who declined to be identified
because the policy isn’t public. Regardless, the bank will
continue to provide buyout financing to acquirers when it is
advising closely held targets, since there is no risk of
litigation from public shareholders, the people said.  “Barclays has always had multiple established safeguards
with respect to financing in sell-side transactions, including
prior internal transaction review by senior executives, written
client authorization and the addition of a second independent
adviser,” said Kerrie-Ann Cohen, a spokeswoman for  Barclays
Capital , the  investment banking  unit of London-based Barclays.
She declined to comment on the bank’s willingness to provide
financing in the wake of the opinion.  “As industry standards and legal guidelines evolve,
Barclays will continue to ensure its policies meet Delaware
Court requirements, industry best practices and its own high
standards in this regard,” Cohen said.  Banks React  After the judge’s opinion,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , JPMorgan Chase,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Morgan Stanley and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  have
reviewed their own policies on financing buyouts when they also
have a role advising sellers, said people with knowledge of the
situation. Lawyers at competing banks talked with each other and
came to a consensus to be more careful about providing sell-side
financing on public-to-private deals, the people said.  “Credit Suisse has a long-standing policy under which
staple financing requests must be approved by a committee of
senior bankers,” said Jack Grone, a spokesman for the bank.
“Earlier this year the bank reviewed the guidelines as part of
this policy for managing these requests.”  Bank of America, JPMorgan and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  met with
outside lawyers and told bankers that sell-side financing should
only be pursued if the client insists on it or the financing is
difficult to find in the market, people said. The firms are also
asking clients to hire a second adviser, usually a smaller
boutique investment bank, early in the sale process, the people
said. Spokesmen for the banks declined to comment on their
internal reviews of the policies.  Potential Conflicts  “The bar has been set extremely high for a sell-side bank
to provide financing,” said Peter D. Lyons, a partner at
Shearman & Sterling LLP in  New York , which has advised banks on
the matter since the Del Monte decision. “If a client asks them
to do it, then they will think long and hard about it and
explain to the client all of the conflicts.”  Clients and their boards also want to avoid sell-side
financing, though they may ask their bankers to revisit the
practice if deteriorating capital markets make funding more
difficult to obtain, Lyons said.  Sellers often choose to have their adviser offer financing
to prospective buyers because it can help ensure a deal’s
completion. Sell-side financing can be justified if it benefits
the seller, especially if the company wants to keep the process
confidential, according to bankers.  The last major public transaction that used this type of
financing was the sale of Emergency Medical Services, announced
in February, to Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC for $3.2 billion.
Bank of America advised EMS and arranged financing for Clayton
Dubilier.  ‘Client’s Best Interest’  “Our role is to get the best price and terms for our
client, the seller,” said Stefan Selig, executive vice chairman
of global corporate and investment banking at Bank of America.
“If everything a banker does is always consistent with that
goal, then potentially providing financing to a buyer can, in
fact, be in the client’s best interest.”  On EMS, Bank of America provided staple financing, a type
of sell-side financing in which bidders are offered a pre-
arranged funding package. Total industry fees from staple
financing accounted for almost a quarter of the $2.2 billion
banks made globally from debt underwriting for leveraged buyouts
last year, according to researcher Freeman & Co.  Since then, a group including Apax Partners LLP agreed to
buy  Kinetic Concepts Inc. (KCI)  for $4.98 billion. JPMorgan advised
Kinetic on the sale, and didn’t offer or provide sell-side
financing, according to company filings. In six other deals,
sell-side financing wasn’t offered, the filings show.  Past Use  By comparison, in the 30-month period between  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s 2008 bankruptcy and the Del Monte
decision, sell-side financing was used five times in 20 deals
with an enterprise value of more than $1 billion, according to
company filings. Three other times the financing was offered and
not used.  “People do want more information and more comfort and are
asking more questions,” said Victor Lewkow, an M&A partner at
 Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP .  In the Del Monte lawsuit, shareholders originally accused
Del Monte directors of breaching their duties in handling the
sale effort and accused the buyers of aiding them.  Plaintiffs in the case intend to take testimony from
Barclays’ top investment-banking executives in depositions in
September and October. The group includes Hugh “Skip” McGee,
head of investment banking; Ros Stephenson, co-head of corporate
finance; and Joseph McGrath, head of leveraged finance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 