-- 
Barclays Defeats Lehman $500 Million Lawsuit Over Unpaid Employee Bonuses

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-09-14T21:55:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/barclays-wins-ruling-against-lehman-brothers.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  defeated a bid by
 Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. to recover $500 million from the
British bank in a dispute over the bankruptcy sale of Lehman
operations in 2008.  Lehman said Barclays was required to pay $2 billion in
employee bonuses as part of the acquisition and paid only $1.5
billion. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in  Manhattan  ruled
against Lehman in a decision filed today, calling Lehman’s
claims “baseless.”  “In common vernacular, this is a ‘no harm, no foul’
situation in which Lehman has not been hurt regardless of the
amounts paid by Barclays to transferred employees,” the judge
wrote.  The dispute stems from the purchase by Barclays of Lehman’s
North American broker-dealer following the investment bank’s
September 2008 bankruptcy filing. Lehman previously lost a bid
to recover what it said was an $11 billion windfall that went to
London-based Barclays.  Lehman argued it should be awarded $500 million in damages
resulting from Barclays’s failure to meet its obligation to pay
the full amount of bonuses. The bonus payments were part of the
consideration in the sale, Lehman said.  Total Compensation  Peck said in his decision that the $2 billion was only an
estimate of the total compensation amounts that were to be
assumed by Barclays in the transaction. Lehman no longer has
liabilities to the employees for bonuses thanks to the sale and
hasn’t suffered damages, Peck said.  “Today’s decision importantly confirms that Barclays acted
in good faith in its dealings with Lehman, just as the court
held in its February decision rejecting Lehman’s effort to
modify the sale order,” Barclays attorney Jonathan Schiller,
managing partner of Boies, Schiller & Flexner, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman, declined to
comment on the ruling.  The main case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-
13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan). The lawsuit is Lehman v. Barclays, 09-01731, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 