-- 
Barratt Developments Says Full-Year Loss Narrowed as Selling Prices Gained

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-09-14T08:15:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/barratt-developments-says-full-year-loss-narrowed-as-selling-prices-gained.html
Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , Britain’s
largest homebuilder by volume, reported a narrower full-year
loss as the average selling price of its homes rose and the
company cut costs by refinancing debt.  The net loss for the 12 months through June shrank to 13.8
million pounds ($21.7 million) from 118.4 million pounds a year
earlier, the London-based company said in a statement today.
Analysts had predicted a loss of 22.2 million pounds, the
average of three estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The selling
price of Barratt’s homes rose 7.4 percent to 198,900 pounds.  “We have made considerable progress in rebuilding
profitability,” Chief Executive Officer Mark Clare said in the
statement. “Further recovery in the housing market remains
dependent on improving economic conditions and the ability of
our customers to secure mortgage finance.”  Barratt in May predicted a “substantial improvement” in
second-half and full-year operating profit after lowering costs
and buying discounted land to boost margins. A lack of supply
has helped buoy prices even as mortgage approvals remain at less
than half the level seen before the financial crisis.  Barratt was little changed at 75.5 pence as of 9:01 a.m. in
 London  trading after rising as much as 2.4 percent, giving it a
market value of about 729 million pounds.  Financing Costs  Financing costs fell to 138.9 million pounds from 235.7
million pounds the previous year, Barratt said. Net debt
decreased to 322.6 million pounds as of June 30 from 366.9
million pounds a year earlier.  Barratt reached a 1 billion-pound refinancing deal in May
on loans that were due next year. The company had fully drawn
down its credit facilities, giving it about 500 million pounds
of cash. The agreement significantly reduced the need for
liquidity, cutting financing costs, Group Finance Director  David
Thomas  said on a conference call today.  Barratt, which hasn’t paid a dividend since 2008, won’t
resume the payments until it has returned to profit, operating
margins improve and prospects for the housing market are more
certain, Clare said on the call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Packard in London at 
 Packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 