-- 
Euro-Bond Plan From Barroso Would Keep EU on Collision Course With Germany

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-09-14T11:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/barroso-vows-euro-bond-options-soon-countering-german-concerns.html
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said he is close to proposing options on joint euro-area
bond sales, putting officials in Brussels on a collision course
with Germany over steps to contain the debt crisis.  “The commission will soon present options for the
introduction of euro bonds,” Barroso told the European
Parliament in Strasbourg, France, today, prompting applause from
lawmakers who have backed the idea. “Some of these options
could be implemented within the terms of the current treaty;
others would require treaty change.”  The idea of bonds sold jointly by the euro area’s 17
nations remains alive because unprecedented bailouts by
governments and the  European Central Bank  have failed to stamp
out debt concerns that began in Greece almost two years ago and
rattled markets in AAA rated France last month.  The disagreement over collective debt guarantees
underscores the worries of policy makers outside Europe over
euro leaders’ inability to solve the crisis. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will travel to a meeting of
European Union finance ministers in Poland this week to urge
them to step up their efforts amid Obama administration concerns
that the region’s woes may hurt the  U.S. economy .  Greek Conference Call  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will hold a
conference call at about 7 p.m. today Athens time to discuss
developments in Greece and the euro area.  European authorities “need to do whatever they can do to
calm these pressures,” Geithner told Bloomberg Television Sept.
9. “They have to demonstrate they have enough political will.”  The commission said in August that it may present draft
legislation on euro bonds when completing a report on the
feasibility of common debt sales. The commission opposed such a
step earlier this year because of German-led objections.  “We are opposed as far as the instrument of euro bonds is
concerned because we believe you can’t fight debt in  Europe  by
making it easier to take up debt,” German Foreign Minister
 Guido Westerwelle  told reporters in Berlin today. Merkel’s
government will react specifically to Barroso’s proposals when
they are on the table, he said.  In France, spokeswoman Valerie Pecresse restated her
government’s concerns. “Mutualization of debt is an arrival
point, not a departure point,” she told reporters in Paris. She
said euro bonds “would be the final stage of a process of
convergence. Right now there’s a consensus that the step to take
is repairing public finances.”  Feasibility Study  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn
said in July that the feasibility study on common bond issuance
would be ready “toward the end of the year.”  “We must be honest: this will not bring an immediate
solution for all the problems we face,” Barroso said today.  He also called  Greece ’s latest budget-austerity measures
“significant.”  The Greek government decided on Sept. 11 to cut one month’s
wages from all elected officials and impose an annual charge on
all property for two years in a bid to qualify for another
installment of international aid. The aim is to meet 2011 and
2012 targets for narrowing the  budget deficit  and to cover a
shortfall for this year that has been exacerbated by a deepening
recession, according to Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos.  “The Greek government has taken significant steps,”
Barroso said. “I urge Greece to finalize these efforts.”  Greece is seeking this month to win a sixth tranche of
loans under last year’s 110 billion-euro ($150 billion) aid
package from the euro area and  International Monetary Fund  and
to avoid a default. Prime Minister George Papandreou’s
government also wants to benefit from a planned second aid
package of 159 billion euros approved by euro-area leaders on
July 21.  “What we need now is Greece to fully carry out its reform
program,” Barroso said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France , at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  