-- 
Belarus Ruble Drops 38% as Trade Starts in Bid to Revive Market

-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 
2011-09-14T12:58:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/belarus-ruble-drops-38-as-trade-starts-in-bid-to-revive-market.html
The Belarusian ruble slumped 38
percent on its first day of unregulated trading as the
government sought to revive the domestic  currency market  amid a
balance-of-payments crisis.  The ruble fell to 8,600 per dollar, a representative of the
Belarusian Stock and Currency Exchange said by telephone today.
That compares with the 5,347 per dollar rate set for today by
the the Minsk-based Natsionalnyi Bank Respubliki Belarus.  Belarus is grappling with an economic crisis that forced a
36 percent devaluation in May. The government has sought loans
from  Russia  and the International Monetary Fund and lifted its
refinancing rate for the ninth time this year to a European high
of 30 percent from today in a bid to lure funds into ruble-
denominated assets.  Commercial banks will peg their exchange rates to the
prices generated in the daily trading sessions, which last about
an hour. BPS Bank was buying dollars today at 8,500 and selling
at 8,900, according quotes on its website. Technobank was buying
at 7,850 and selling at 8,600, while Bank Moscow-Minsk was
buying at 8,600 and selling at 8,700.  The former Soviet republic may scrap plans to seek a new
loan from the  International Monetary Fund , RIA Novosti reported
today, citing the central bank. OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest
lender, granted a $1 billion loan to state potash producer
Belaruskali, the government said Sept. 12. The loan can be
counted as part of Belarus’s foreign-currency reserves, RIA said
today, citing a central bank official.  The country requested a stabilization loan from the IMF in
June after receiving $3.5 billion in 2009. The IMF urged
authorities to show “commitment to strong policies and
structural reforms” before the country qualifies for more
financial aid, according to a report published yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  