-- 
Berkshire Agrees to Settle Australia Suit Over Chopper Crash

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-09-14T06:38:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/berkshire-agrees-to-settle-australia-suit-over-helicopter-crash-in-2005.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  agreed to settle Australian insurance claims stemming from
a 2005 crash by a Royal Australian Navy helicopter in  Indonesia 
in which nine people were killed.  The Australian government and the Defence Force sued
Berkshire and other insurers in December for refusing to pay
A$19.8 million ($20.5 million) in claims the government and the
defense department incurred in compensating families of the
victims and in the legal costs of a Navy Board inquiry.  The government and the insurers reached a settlement in
mediation last month, Shamus Toomey, the government’s lawyer,
told Federal Court Justice Geoffrey Flick at a hearing in Sydney
today. Terms of the settlement are confidential, Toomey said
after the hearing.  Berkshire was a primary insurer, responsible for 29.75
percent of any payouts, according to court documents. Great
Lakes Re (UK), a unit of Muenchener Rueckversicherungs AG, and
Converium Insurance UK Ltd., a unit of SCOR Holding Switzerland
AG, each covered 27.25 percent of the policy. The rest of the
coverage was shared by 21 other insurers.  The Australian Navy Sea King helicopter Shark 02 crashed
April 2, 2005, on the island of Nias while transporting a
medical team on a rescue mission to help civilians affected by a
March 2005 earthquake.  Maintenance  The insurers had claimed the policy was void because it
required the aircraft to be flight worthy at the start of each
flight and the Australian Navy, in a 2007 report, said a series
of errors and non-compliance with maintenance regulations were
to blame for the accident.  The crash was caused by a failure of mechanical linkages
within the flight control system, because a nut was fitted
incorrectly, according to the report.  The government had argued that reasonable care was taken to
ensure the helicopter was airworthy and it didn’t breach the
policy.  The government and the defense department paid A$17.8
million to the families of those killed and sought to recoup A$2
million of the A$8.8 million that was spent on an  inquiry 
following the crash. The A$2 million is the maximum coverage
provided by the insurers for legal costs, according to the court
documents.  The case is Commonwealth of  Australia  vs Berkshire Hathaway
International. NSD1715/2010. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  