-- 
Berlusconi Wins Confidence Vote on Italy’s $74 Billion Austerity Package

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-09-14T12:31:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/berlusconi-wins-confidence-vote-on-italy-s-74-billion-austerity-package.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
government won a confidence vote in the Chamber of Deputies on
its 54 billion-euro ($74 billion) austerity plan, paving the way
for the legislation’s final approval this evening.  The 630-seat lower house voted 316 to 302 in favor of the
government, according to a  statement  on the its website. It will
vote again at around 7:40 p.m. on the plan, in what amounts to a
procedural ballot to conform with parliamentary rules.  The lower house vote, which follows the Senate’s approval
of the package on Sept. 7, comes as concern about a possible
Greek default roils European debt markets. Italian borrowing
costs surged at an auction yesterday, when the Treasury sold 3.9
billion euros of 5-year bonds to yield 5.6 percent, up from 4.93
percent at the last sale on July 14.  “Its complete implementation will be vital,” European
Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said of the package at a press
appearance with Berlusconi in Brussels yesterday. To restore
confidence in financial markets, the plan’s “adoption is
important, not only for  Italy  but for all of the euro zone.”  The legislation revised measures in a plan the government
approved by decree last month to convince the European Central
Bank to buy the nation’s bonds. That package failed to reassure
investors after Berlusconi, bowing to political pressure from
allies, watered it down by scrapping moves such as a  wealth tax .  Bonds Plunge  The backslide prompted an 11-day fall in Italian bonds that
ended on Sept. 6, when the government beefed up the plan by
adding a one-percentage point increase in the value-added tax
and a new levy on incomes over 300,000 euros. The 320-seat
Senate, where Berlusconi’s government enjoys a wide support,
then voted 165 to 141 to adopt the package. In the lower house,
the government enjoys a smaller majority.  The premium investors demand to hold Italian 10-year bonds
instead of benchmark German bunds narrowed one basis point after
the vote to 377 basis points. Yesterday, the spread reached 391
basis points, the highest since before the  European Central Bank 
started buying Italian bonds on Aug. 8 in exchange for the
government’s approval of the original austerity package.  “There’s something that is worrying me at this stage --
the fact that, despite the ECB buying, we still see flows of
selling from the investors community, which I think is also
related to what is happening in  Greece ,”  Silvio Peruzzo , a
euro-area economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc., said today
on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” with  Owen Thomas .  After the plan’s adoption, the government will review its
policies on economic growth, Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti 
said on Sept. 10. “If there are things to change in our growth
measures we will, and if there are things to add, we will,”
Tremonti told reporters at a meeting of G-7 finance ministers in
Marseille,  France .  Ratings Outlook  Standard & Poor’s  in May and Moody’s Investors Service in
June warned that they may downgrade Italy, saying the government
may miss its revenue and deficit targets amid chronically
sluggish economic growth and possible political instability.
Italy’s economy will contract 0.1 percent in the three months
through September, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development forecast last week.  Even as austerity weighs on Italy’s expansion, the country
may need more deficit cuts, said Mario Baldassarri, head of the
Senate Finance Committee and a former Berlusconi ally. “How
long can the ECB continue to buy Italian Treasury bonds?” he
said in a Sept. 7 interview. “We may need another adjustment in
three, four weeks which will be the real answer to the European
Commission and to markets.”  Italian officials met in the past month with delegates from
 China  Investment Corp. to discuss investments in the European
country, an Italian official familiar with the matter said on
Sept 12. Government-bond purchases were not the focus of the
talks, he added. The Financial Times reported that debt sales
had been on the agenda.  The Italian government didn’t ask for “any particular
help” from China and the talks only addressed possible
“industrial investments,” Deputy Economy Minister Antonio
Gentile said in an e-mail yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  