-- 
Berlusconi’s Austerity Package Wins Final Approval in Italian Parliament

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-09-14T18:22:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/berlusconi-s-austerity-package-wins-final-approval-in-italian-parliament.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
won final parliamentary approval for a 54 billion-euro ($74
billion) austerity package that seeks to balance the budget by
2013 in an attempt to stem Italy’s surging borrowing costs.  The 630-seat lower house approved the plan tonight after
backing the government earlier today in a confidence vote called
to speed passage of the measure. Police had to use tear gas to
disperse demonstrators outside the parliament in Rome as the
vote was being carried out.  “The approval of the austerity package sends a signal of
stability,” German Economy Minister Philipp Roesler told a news
briefing in Rome, before the final vote in Parliament. “I have
respect for what Italy has done with its budget adjustment as
this will benefit the whole euro area.”  Italy  is scrambling to convince investors that it can tame
the region’s second-biggest debt burden as borrowing costs surge
amid concern that Greece may default. The austerity package, the
nation’s second since July, was adopted in exchange for European
Central Bank bond purchases that have helped reduce 10-year
yields from record highs even as they remain close to 6 percent.  The legislation revised measures in a plan the government
approved by decree last month that failed to reassure investors
after Berlusconi, bowing to political pressure from allies,
watered it down by scrapping moves such as a  wealth tax .  Bond Slump  The backslide prompted an 11-day fall in Italian bonds that
ended on Sept. 6, when the government beefed up the plan by
adding a one-percentage point increase in the value-added tax
and a new levy on incomes over 300,000 euros. The 320-seat
Senate, where Berlusconi’s government enjoys a wide support,
then adopted the package.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell to 12 basis points
today to 5.59 percent, pushing the premium investors demand to
hold the securities instead of benchmark German bunds to 372
basis points. Yesterday, the spread ended at 392 basis points,
its highest close since before the start of the euro.  While the plan’s passage is “very welcome step,” the
slowing global economy casts doubt on Italy’s ability “to meet
its fiscal targets and will also render additional corrective
measures very likely,”  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc in  London , said by e-mail. Even with ECB
backing, Italy’s debt remains “under pressure, which is
indicative of a well-rooted lack of confidence in Italy and in
the European policies to tackle the crisis.”  Euro Bonds  European Commission President  Jose Barroso , speaking to the
European Parliament in Strasbourg, France, today, said he is
close to proposing options on joint euro-area bond sales,
putting officials in Brussels on a collision course with  Germany 
over steps to contain the debt crisis.  The idea of bonds sold jointly by the euro area’s 17
nations remains alive because unprecedented bailouts by
governments and the ECB have failed to stamp out debt concerns
that began in  Greece  almost two years ago and rattled markets in
AAA-rated France last month.  Germany’s government remains “expressly” opposed to the
collective debt instruments, Roesler said today. “We cannot be
responsible for the debts of other countries,” the economy
minister told reporters in Rome.  Standard & Poor’s  in May and Moody’s Investors Service in
June warned that they may downgrade Italy, saying the government
may miss its revenue and deficit targets amid chronically
sluggish economic growth and possible political instability.
Italy’s economy will contract 0.1 percent in the three months
through September, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development forecast last week.  Plan for Growth  Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said on Sept. 10 that
Italy would review its policies on economic growth, once the
austerity plan was approved. “If there are things to change in
our growth measures we will, and if there are things to add, we
will,” he told reporters at a meeting of G-7 finance ministers
in Marseille,  France .  Seeking to boost their economy, Italian officials have met
in the past month with delegates from  China  Investment Corp. to
discuss investments in the European country, an Italian official
familiar with the matter said on Sept 12. Government-bond
purchases were not the focus of the talks, he added. The
Financial Times reported that debt sales were on the agenda.  Italy and China have “had chances to talk about
investments and even bonds,” Industry Minister Paolo Romani
told reporters in Rome today. While “Italy doesn’t rely on
China’s support” for its debt, “I don’t see why they
shouldn’t’ buy Italian bonds. That’s the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  