-- 
Bionor AIDS Injection Helps Patients Stay Off Pills in Study

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-14T16:27:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/bionor-aids-injection-helps-patients-stay-off-pills-in-study-2-.html
Bionor Pharma ASA (BIONOR) , the Norwegian
developer of an experimental AIDS treatment, said the injection
lowered viral levels in patients’ blood and helped some of them
stay off daily pills for more than a year.  As many as 30 percent of patients in a study of Bionor’s
Vacc-4x were able to stay off antiretroviral therapy more than a
year after they stopped, compared with 18 percent who got a
placebo, the Oslo-based company said in a statement today. The
results were presented at a conference in Bangkok.  The findings may help Bionor revive Vacc-4x after saying in
October it would scrap the shot because six-month data showed it
didn’t work, sending the stock down 81 percent. A month later
the company reversed the decision after further analysis showed
the treatment lowered viral levels. It now plans three more
trials to see if it can improve on today’s results, including
one combining Vacc-4x with  Celgene Corp. (CELG) ’s cancer drug Revlimid.  “We don’t see this as a standalone alternative to
antiretroviral therapy,” Vidar Wendel-Hansen, Bionor’s chief
medical officer, said in an interview. “What we do see is the
long-term potential to train the immune system to take over the
role of antiretroviral therapy. That’s the goal.”  Bionor was unchanged at 1.55 kroner at the close of trading
in Oslo.  ‘Not as Compelling’  Unlike the pills that are the mainstay of HIV treatment,
Vacc-4x is a so-called therapeutic vaccine designed to fight the
virus by marshaling the body’s immune system against it. While
the shot hasn’t yet been shown to subdue the virus as well as
antiretroviral therapy, regular injections that keep it at
relatively low levels may save patients from the side effects
and costs associated with pills.  The  trial  involved 135 patients who had been using anti-
AIDS drugs to control HIV for at least six months. Two-thirds
received six shots of Vacc-4x while taking their regular pills
over 28 weeks, then stopped taking the drugs. The other third
received an injection of water.  Six months later, those who got the shot had an average 70
percent reduction in the amount of virus in their blood compared
with the level before they started pill therapy. More than a
year after they went off treatment, 30 percent of them remained
pill-free, compared with 18 percent of the placebo group.  “Several years ago I would have been tremendously
excited” by the results, Michael Saag, director of the Center
for AIDS Research at the  University of Alabama  at Birmingham,
said in an e-mail.  “Now I find it interesting, but not as compelling,” Saag
said. “The reason is that we have growing evidence that, even
with no detectable virus among folks not on antiretroviral
therapy, there is evidence of increased inflammation.” Even low
levels of viral replication -- which the pills control -- could
be harmful to patients in the long-term, according to Saag.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  