-- 
Black Swan Funds Said to Soar Amid Europe Crisis

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-09-14T19:04:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/black-swan-hedge-funds-are-said-to-jump-as-europe-debt-crisis-intensifies.html
Hedge funds created to protect
investors against market shocks in the wake of the biggest
recession in seven decades are soaring as  Europe ’s intensifying
debt crisis infects markets globally.  Saba Capital Management LP’s $550 million so-called tail
risk fund has gained 11.5 percent in September after increasing
15 percent last month, according to a person with knowledge of
its performance. Pine River Capital Management LP’s $160 million
tail fund advanced 14.5 percent in August, an investor familiar
with the returns said. They asked not to be identified because
the results are private.  Hedge funds have lost 4.8 percent since July 30 on growing
concern that Europe’s leaders will fail to stem a crisis of
confidence that has sent borrowing costs of nations from  Greece 
to  Italy  to euro-era records. Saba, founded by former Deutsche
Bank AG credit trader Boaz Weinstein, gained as  junk bonds  had
their biggest monthly losses since the months after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in 2008.  “The tail fund benefited from our focus on credit because
equity just hasn’t moved as much proportionally,” Weinstein
said. “This is not altogether surprising considering the level
of fear and uncertainty related to sovereign and bank
solvency.”  Weinstein declined to comment on his fund’s specific
returns.  Patrick Clifford , a spokesman for Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based Pine River, also declined comment.  Black Swans  Tail funds derive their name from the outlying points, or
tails, on bell-shaped curves that forecasters use to plot the
probability of losses or gains in a given market.  Hedging against improbable events was pioneered in the
1980s by traders including Nassim  Nicholas Taleb , whose 2007
book, “The  Black Swan ,” warned that bankers relying too much
on probability models had become blind to potential
catastrophes.  Taleb consults with Universa Investments LP, a hedge fund
founded and owned by Mark Spitznagel that seeks to protect
clients against black-swan events, a reference to the widely
held belief that only white swans existed, until black ones were
discovered in  Australia  in 1697.  Pine River formed its fund in June 2010 at the request of
investors who wanted access to the techniques used by its
primary multi-strategy fund, which gained 40 percent during 2008
and 2009. Saba started its version in November.  Capula, Gramercy  Other firms running the strategy include Capula Investment
Management, which began a fund in March 2010 that’s grown to $2
billion. It climbed more than 5 percent this month after a 5.36
percent gain in August, according to an investor familiar with
the performance. The fund has risen about 11 percent this year.  A tail risk fund managed by Gramercy, a Greenwich,
Connecticut-based investment firm that oversees more than $2
billion, gained 9.8 percent in September and is up 29 percent
since its May 1 inception, according to a person familiar with
the fund’s returns.  The managers profited as the VIX index, a measure of stock-
market volatility known as Wall Street’s “fear gauge,” more
than doubled in the past two months.  A measure of price swings over a 30-day period for the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a credit-
default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses, tripled
since May, reaching the highest in 14 months, prices from Markit
Group Ltd. show.  The index, which rises as investor confidence deteriorates,
soared to 135.9 basis points on Sept. 12, the highest level in
more than two years, from 91.9 at the end of June.  Junk Bonds  Company bonds rated below BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s  and
lower than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service lost 4 percent in
August, the biggest loss since November 2008, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data. The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  decreased
5.4 percent last month, including reinvested dividends, and has
dropped 10.7 percent since the end of June through yesterday.  Hedge funds globally declined 4.8 percent in the seven
weeks ended Sept. 12, according to a Hedge Fund Research Inc.
index of preliminary data that tracks 40 firms. A broader gauge
of the Chicago-based research firm fell 2.3 percent in August,
the worst month since May 2010.  Billionaire investor  John Paulson ’s Advantage Plus Fund,
which seeks to profit from corporate events such as takeovers
and bankruptcies, lost 15 percent in August, two people familiar
with the firm said last week. The rout extended the fund’s loss
this year to 34 percent for Paulson, who has been betting on an
economic recovery by the end of 2012.  BlueMountain, PAMLI  Some credit strategies that seek to avoid big bets on the
direction of the economy, known as long/short funds, gained or
outperformed the market last month, including New York-based
Saba’s flagship $3.65 billion fund, which rose 2.5 percent, a
person familiar with the fund said last week.  BlueMountain Capital Management’s Credit Alternatives Fund,
which seeks to profit from dislocations between bonds, loans and
derivatives, fell 1.89 percent in August, leaving its gains for
the year at 3.06 percent, according to a note to investors. A
spokeswoman for the firm declined to comment.  PAMLI Capital Management LLC’s $115 million PAMLI Global
Credit Strategies fund gained 5.02 percent, according to a
person familiar with the fund’s performance. The firm was
founded in January by former Highbridge Capital Management LLC
portfolio manager Faisal Syed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  