-- 
Blade Runner Pistorius Pushes Athletic, Financial Boundaries of His Sport

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-09-14T22:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/blade-runner-pistorius-pushes-athletic-financial-boundaries-of-his-sport.html
Oscar Pistorius’s quest to become
the first athlete on prosthetic limbs to compete in the Olympics
may boost sponsorship income for paralympic sports.  Pistorius made history last month by becoming the only
double amputee athlete ever to run in the  IAAF world
championships  in  South Korea . He helped  South Africa  win a
silver medal in the 1,600-meter relay in Daegu and is now being
promoted by organizers of next year’s  Olympic and Paralympic
Games  in  London .  Being a high-profile athlete “is not only important for
me, but it’s important for paralympic sports,” Pistorius said
in an interview in London. He’s competing in the 400 meters
tomorrow at the Van Damme Memorial meet in Brussels.  Nicknamed the Blade Runner for his J-shaped carbon fiber
legs, Pistorius competed in his first able-bodied elite event in
Daegu. He got his chance after sport’s highest tribunal, the
Court of Arbitration for Sport, in 2008 overturned a ban on him
competing against able-bodied athletes imposed by the
International Association of Athletics Federations, which said
his blades give him an advantage.  Pistorius was born without fibulas. When he was 11 months
old, his father Henk and late mother Sheila followed doctors’
advice to have both his legs amputated below the knee.  As a child, he played sports including water polo, cricket,
tennis and boxing. As part of his rehabilitation after injuring
his knee while playing rugby as a 16-year-old, Pistorius took up
track. A year later he won the gold medal in the 200 meters at
the 2004 Athens Paralympics.  Endorsement Deals  The 24-year-old from  Pretoria  has signed six endorsements
with companies including  Nike Inc. (NKE) , French perfume brand  Thierry
Mugler , sunglass brand  Oakley  and U.K. phone company BT Group
Plc.  Novak Djokovic , who won the U.S. Open Sept. 12 for his
third Grand Slam tennis title of the year, has five
sponsorships.  Pistorius earns about 2 million pounds ($3.16 million) a
year, which could rise by 50 percent if he competes in the
London Olympics, Nigel Currie, director of London-based sports
marketing agency brandRapport, said in an e-mail.  The emergence of Pistorius, who won three gold medals at
the Beijing Paralympics and is targeting four at the 2012 event,
may persuade more companies to back paralympic sports, said Ian
Henry, director of the  Centre for Olympic Studies and Research 
at Loughborough University in the U.K.  Sponsorship Boost  “Having athletes competing in both Games is a very
positive aspect,” Henry said in an interview. “It valorizes
the notion of paralympic athletes as elite, world-class
athletes.”  Last year,  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-largest
supermarket company, became the first stand-alone sponsor of the
Paralympics in a deal the London  Evening Standard  said was worth
20 million pounds. Approximately 2 million Paralympic tickets
are on sale until Sept. 26.  Such endorsements will help performances in paralympic
sports, Pistorius said.  “That’s where corporate sponsorship definitely comes in
and plays a big role,” he said. “Performances can only come
when athletes have got peace of mind and when they are focused
completely on what they are doing.”  London 2012 organizers last week said they’ve raised more
than 690 million pounds from 41 domestic sponsors for the
Olympic and Paralympic Games.  Paralympics Growth  Since starting in the shadows of the Rome Olympics in 1960,
the Paralympics have grown from 400 athletes from 23 nations to
4,200 competitors from 150 countries next year in London. The
Beijing Paralympics attracted a record cumulative global
television audience of 3.8 billion people.  Pistorius’s path to Daegu was controversial, with some
scientists and athletes including former 400-meter runner  Roger
Black , who won two silver medals for Britain at the 1996 Atlanta
Olympics, saying his blades may give him an unfair edge.  “The science has proved that there is no advantage in the
legs,” Pistorius said, citing research by the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology . “Any performance increases that I’ve
made have been from training, have been from the dedication that
I show, have been from the knowledge of my coach and of my
trainers.”  Three days after being eliminated in the semifinals of the
400 meters in Daegu, Pistorius helped South Africa break an 11-
year-old national record as the leadoff runner in the 1,600
meter relay. He was dropped from the team that took silver in
the final.  “I’ll always be disappointed that I wasn’t in the final,”
Pistorius said. “I really deserved to have been there.”  ‘Superstar’  Pistorius “is a superstar” who may inspire more
paralympic athletes to compete in able-bodied competitions, Jon Sigurdsson, president and chief executive officer of Ossur Hf,
the Icelandic company that produces the runner’s blades, said in
an interview.  “What Oscar has done has been awesome,” said  April
Holmes , an American sprinter who won a 100-meter gold medal at
the Beijing Paralympics. “He’s truly a pioneer of our sport.”  Pistorius said he’s confident he’ll run the qualification
time needed to make the London Olympics, where he aims to
improve on his performance at Daegu.  “That’s what it’s all about,” he said. “It’s each year
running better and asserting yourself in a position better than
you had in previous years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 