-- 
Bloomberg Radio Announces Content Partnership

-- B y  
-- 
2011-09-14T13:18:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/bloomberg-radio-announces-content-partnership.html
                                
Press Release  ESPN  New York  1050 to provide morning sports coverage on
Bloomberg Radio in New York  New York -- Bloomberg Radio (WBBR-AM), the 24-hour, digital all-
news business radio station, today announced that it has
partnered with ESPN New York 1050 (WEPN-AM) to provide the
network’s morning sports programming.  Bloomberg Radio offers
up-to-the minute financial coverage and in-depth feature
programming from the world’s most trusted source of financial
news and business information.  ESPN host Jared Max will deliver live reports that are
specifically targeted to the New York City market on Bloomberg
Radio beginning at 5 AM/ET during “The First Word” hosted by Ken
Prewitt and “Bloomberg Surveillance” with hosts Prewitt and  Tom
Keene .  “We’re pleased to offer our listeners in the New York City metro
area with morning sports coverage by ESPN’s flagship station,”
said Al Mayers, head of Bloomberg Radio.  “In partnering with
ESPN, we’re combining the best brand in business with the best
brand in sports.”  “When it comes to serving the most passionate sports fans in the
world, ESPN New York is proud to partner with Bloomberg on this
unique endeavor,” said Justin Craig, Program Director, ESPN New
York 1050.  Bloomberg 1130 (WBBR-AM) can be heard throughout the New York,
 New Jersey  and Connecticut areas. WBBR is the flagship radio
station of Bloomberg Radio, which syndicates reports to more
than 840 radio stations worldwide. Bloomberg Radio can also be
heard nationwide on Sirius/XM Channel 113.  For more information on Bloomberg Radio, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/radio/ .  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in New York,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  About ESPN New York 1050  ESPN New York 1050 is the flagship station of ESPN Radio,
providing sports talk, news and local and national play-by-play
coverage.  It’s the official radio home of three of the New York
market’s most iconic teams:  the Jets, Knicks and Rangers, as
well as  Major League Baseball  including the entire postseason,
the NBA, the BCS, and high school sports coverage.  Also
broadcasting 24/7 at www.ESPNNewYork.com.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Amanda Cowie, +1 212-617-1689,  acowie@bloomberg.net   #<728521.6697419.2.1.95.14779.2660>#
 