-- 
BNP Paribas Plans to Bolster Capital Ratio to 9% Through U.S. Asset Cuts

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-09-14T16:21:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/bnp-paribas-to-boost-capital-ratio-cut-u-s-assets.html
BNP Paribas SA,  France ’s largest
bank, aims to boost its common equity tier 1 capital ratio to 9
percent by the start of 2013 as it scales back U.S. dollar
corporate- and investment-banking business.  BNP Paribas is taking steps to cut risk-weighted assets by
about 70 billion euros ($96 billion) to increase the capital
ratio by 1 percentage point under Basel III rules, the Paris-
based company said in a presentation on its website today. That
will free up about 6 billion euros of capital according to
Bloomberg calculations and confirmed by the bank. As part of the
effort, the lender is is cutting its corporate- and investment-
banking balance sheet by $82 billion.  “Since early 2011, the group has taken actions to adapt
the business model to the new liquidity, solvency and leverage
environment,” the bank said in the presentation.  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
trimmed assets by $22 billion in the first half, mostly in
capital-markets activities, and plans additional cuts in  dollar
assets of $60 billion by the end of 2012, by curbing lending as
well as through sales and business disposals.  BNP Paribas had its Aa2 long-term rating kept under review
for a possible cut by Moody’s Investors Service today. The
lender fell as much as 9.8 percent in Paris trading. Moody’s cut
by one level the long-term debt ratings of  Credit Agricole  SA
and Societe Generale, France’s second- and third-largest banks,
respectively.  Greek Debt  BNP Paribas’s exposure to the sovereign debt of Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  is “manageable,” the bank said. In
 Greece , the company would have a 1.7 billion-euro pretax
additional writedown on its sovereign holdings if it took a 55
percent mark-to-market impairment, it said. Any markdown on the
Greek sovereign bonds in third-quarter accounts will depend on
the implementation of the rescue package agreed to on July 21,
which involved a 21 percent writedown on debt maturing by 2020,
it said.  French lenders top the list of Greek creditors with $56.7
billion in exposure to private and public debt, according to a
June report by the Basel, Switzerland-based Bank for
International Settlements. Credit Agricole has an unprofitable
Greek subsidiary, Emporiki Bank of Greece SA, while Societe
Generale has a controlling stake in Greece’s Geniki Bank SA. BNP
Paribas doesn’t have a Greek consumer-banking unit.  “Moody’s has concluded that BNP Paribas has a sufficient
level of profitability and capital that it can absorb potential
losses it is likely to incur over time on its Greek  government
bonds ,” the ratings company said. The long-term debt and
standalone bank financial strength ratings of BNP Paribas remain
on review because of concerns about “the structural challenges
to banks’ funding and liquidity profiles,” Moody’s said.  Mortgage Lending  BNP Paribas is also aiming for a 9 billion-euro reduction
of mortgage lending at its personal-finance division in  Spain ,
the Netherlands,  Switzerland , Norway and  Hungary , the bank said.
The company is seeking to cut lending at the equipment-solutions
unit by 3 billion euros as it scales down business in the U.K.,
Switzerland and Hungary and exits some leasing activities such
as real estate, yachts and  business jets , it said.  BNP Paribas fell 3.9 percent to 26.90 euros in Paris,
bringing this year’s decline to 44 percent on escalating concern
that the European sovereign debt crisis is turning into a
banking crisis. Credit Agricole has fallen 45 percent and
 Societe Generale  57 percent. The shares advanced yesterday after
BNP Paribas and Societe Generale said they can withstand a Greek
sovereign default and a reduction in lending from U.S. money-
market funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  