-- 
Boadin, American Express, Qantas, Target, Google: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-14T11:01:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/boadin-american-express-qantas-target-google-intellectual-property.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) , Bloomberg LP,
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Dow Jones & Co. and four other media outlets were
sued for allegedly infringing two patents for “instantaneous
symbol lookup,” used on websites.  Boadin Technology LLC, which said it owns the rights to the
patents, filed the lawsuit Sept. 12 in federal court in
Wilmington,  Delaware . Boadin, whose office is in Newark,
Delaware, is seeking a finding of infringement and unspecified
compensatory damages, according to the complaint.  The news providers infringed Boadin’s patents by selling
“certain computer products that embody” the covered
technology, according to the complaint, which said the companies
used the technology on their websites.  Other defendants include News Corp. units Fox News Network
and Marketwatch Inc., Gannett Co. and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s CNBC TV
network. Bloomberg LP is the parent company of Bloomberg News.  Ty Trippet, a Bloomberg spokesman, declined to comment on
the suit. Charles Douglas, a Comcast spokesman, and Danielle
Rhoades Ha, a  New York  Times spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
comment. Jack Horner, a News Corp. spokesman, and Robin Pence, a
spokeswoman for the Gannett newspaper chain, didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment.  The case is Boadin Technology LLC v. Bloomberg LP, 11-CV-
00802, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Renesas Complaint Against Vizio TVs to Get Trade Agency Review  The U.S. International Trade Commission instituted an
investigation of a patent complaint filed Aug. 12 by Renesas
Electronics Corp. of Kawasaki,  Japan .  Renesas seeks to block closely held Vizio Inc.’s
televisions from the U.S., claiming circuits in those products
are made using the Japanese company’s patented inventions.  One patent covers an arrangement of connections on the
surface of the circuit, while the second is for a manufacturing
process that reduces corrosion.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency with the power to block
products that violate U.S. patent rights. It typically completes
investigations in 15 to 18 months.  Renesas was formed in 2003 from the semiconductor divisions
of Hitachi and Mitsubishi Electric and is owned by those two
companies and NEC Corp. The company made its request for
enforcement to the ITC in August.  Vizio, based in  Irvine ,  California , has its own patent-
infringement case pending against Renesas at the ITC that was
instituted in July. A trial in that case, which also involves
digital TVs, is scheduled for next June, according to
information on the agency’s website.  The civil case against Vizio is Renesas Electronics Corp.
v. Vizio Inc., 11-cv-00356, U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of  Texas  (Marshall).  The ITC case is In the Matter of Digital Televisions
Containing Integrated Circuit Devices, Complaint No. 2840, U.S.
International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  The Vizio case against Renesas is In the Matter of Digital
Televisions and Components Thereof, 337-789, U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  AmEx Barred from Using Marks Similar to Zone IP’s in New Zealand  American Express Co. (AXP)  can’t use marks in New Zealand that
potentially infringe on trademarks of Israel’s Zone IP Ltd.,
 according to  New Zealand’s National Business Review.  A court issued a temporary order barring the company from
using the marks until after a full trial in 2012 on the
infringement issues, according to the newspaper.  The judge noted that Tel Aviv-based Zone IP had a “not
insubstantial” business and was the fifth-largest trademark
filer in New Zealand, the National Business Review reported.  Counsel representing the Zone IP content company told the
newspaper that the court found that while New York’s AmEx wasn’t
necessarily infringing, there was enough of a similarity between
the two companies’ marks to require a future court
determination.  IMD Acquires Anti-Youth Obesity Trademark, Program Content  IMD Companies Inc., a health-care and fitness company,
acquired the trademark “Kidshape” from Healthy America Inc.,
the Delray Beach, Florida-based company said in a  statement .  The mark is to be used for a juvenile weight-loss program
aimed at reducing child and teen obesity. In addition to the
mark, IMD is acquiring copyrighted materials related to the
program. Healthy America has used the program for more than five
years, according to the statement.  IMD will use the program in conjunction with content
produced by its Positive Solutions Centers, and aims to get work
with state and local governments to implement the program in
school systems, the company said in the statement.  Terms of the acquisition weren’t disclosed.  Qantas Seeks ‘RedQ,” Related Marks for Upcoming  Asia  Service  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , the Australian airline, applied for
several trademarks likely to be used for its spinoff airline
aimed at executive travelers in Asia, the Sydney Morning Herald
reported.  The Mascot, New South Wales-based airline has filed
applications to register “RedQ,” “RedQ Executive Express,”
“RedSky” and “OneAsia,” the newspaper reported.  A potential problem with the name is Virgin Blue Airlines
Pty. Ltd.’s use of “Red Jet” as a trademark for its charity
foundation, according to the Sydney Morning Herald.  Olivia Wirth, who heads Qantas corporate affairs, told the
Sydney Morning Herald that while several different names are
under consideration for the new Asia service, the final choice
hadn’t yet been made.  Target’s Missoni Trademarked Items Hit Bulls Eye for Retailer  Target Corp. (TGT)  discovered yesterday that the draw of the
famed Italian designer Missoni SpA’s trademarks is so great that
the retailer’s website crashed multiple times.  The Minneapolis-based retailer said in a July  statement 
that it would offer Missoni merchandise through early December,
with products in the clothing and home-furnishings area ranging
in price from $1.99 through $599.99, with most items less than
$40. By contrast, a Missoni dress offered on the  website  of the
Neiman Marcus Group was priced at $1,490.  When accessed several times yesterday, the  Target website 
showed a picture of the Target logo dog standing by a red
toolbox and the text “woof! We are suddenly extremely popular.
You may not be able to access our site momentarily due to
unusually high traffic. Please stay here and we’ll try to get
you in as soon as we can!”  Dartington Residents Take Issue with Dartington Hall’s Trademark  Residents of a U.K. village whose name was first listed in
official records in 833 A.D. are incensed that the trust
operating a medieval hall near the village has registered the
village’s name as a trademark,  according to the BBC .  Dartington Hall ’s registration of “Dartington” is “pure
arrogance,” residents of the village of  Dartington  told the
 BBC .  Vaughan Lindsay, chief executive of the Dartington Hall
Trust, told the BBC registration was necessary to “protect the
brand name of the trust.”  He said that while the trust had met with locals and
listened to their concerns, a decision was made to go ahead with
the registration despite the objections, the BBC reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Authors Sue for Seizure of 7 Million Books at U.S. Universities  The Authors Guild , a U.S. advocacy group, is leading a
copyright infringement lawsuit seeking seizure of 7 million
books digitized by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and stored at five colleges
including the University of Michigan.  The writers, including the Australian Society of Authors
and the Quebec Writers Union, filed suit Sept. 12 in federal
court in New York claiming the universities obtained
unauthorized scans of the copyright-protected books. Next month
the University of Michigan plans to release 27 works by French,
Russian and American authors that it deems “orphans” for free
downloads to about 250,000 students and faculty, according to
the lawsuit.  “This is an upsetting and outrageous attempt to dismiss
authors’ rights,” Angelo Loukakis, executive director of the
Australian Society of Authors, said in a statement on the
guild’s website.  The lawsuit comes after a U.S. judge gave Google and a
group of publishers and authors more time in July to try and
negotiate a settlement of a legal dispute over the search-engine
company’s digital reproduction of books. The Mountain View,
California-based company was sued in 2005 by authors and
publishers who said the company was infringing their copyrights
by digitizing books and allowing “snippets” of them online.  The case is The Authors Guild Inc. against  HathiTrust . File
No. 11-cv-6351. U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  TCW Says Gundlach Prepared to ‘Eliminate’ Former Employer  Ex-TCW Group Inc. chief investment officer  Jeffrey Gundlach 
engineered a scheme to use his former employer’s trade secrets
to start his own firm in 2009, TCW’s lawyers told a  Los Angeles 
jury in closing arguments.  The California state court jury must try to decide whether
Gundlach secretly plotted to set up DoubleLine Capital LP while
still at TCW or whether the company breached its contract with
him, as Gundlach alleges, and fired him to avoid having to pay
him hundreds of millions of dollars in fees on the distressed-
asset funds he set up in 2007 and 2008.  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
sued Gundlach, 51, in January 2010, after more than half of its
fixed-income professionals joined DoubleLine. TCW claims it
suffered $344 million in damages from Gundlach’s alleged
interference with clients’ contracts and $222 million from a
claimed breach of fiduciary duty.  “They secretly stole, they secretly set up a Delaware
company,” TCW lawyer John Quinn told the jury yesterday. “They
were preparing to eliminate TCW as a competitor.”  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and was named
Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  The jury heard more than six weeks of testimony as the two
sides provided conflicting views of Gundlach’s falling out with
TCW Chief Executive Officer  Marc Stern  in 2009, which ended with
Stern’s buying Metropolitan West Asset Management LLC to run
TCW’s fixed-income group and firing Gundlach in December 2009.  Stern testified that he became suspicious of Gundlach after
a series of September 2009 meetings and instructed TCW’s in-
house lawyer to start monitoring the e-mail of Gundlach and
others in his group. The investigation showed Gundlach’s people
were downloading TCW’s proprietary information and looking for
office space, Stern said.  “He was the pope and the godfather, he was above it all,”
Quinn said. “You haven’t heard him repent for anything.”  Gundlach has denied that DoubleLine used any of TCW’s
proprietary software systems and data.  DoubleLine’s lawyers have argued that Stern started looking
to replace Gundlach as early as June 2009, about the time Stern
returned to active management. Gundlach and other senior
managers at TCW had opposed Stern’s return out of retirement and
had wanted the firm to be run by a management committee instead.  Gundlach had negotiated for him and his group to receive 60
percent of the performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
he set up in 2007 and 2008. The funds invested in mortgage-
backed securities that were downgraded and dropped in value with
the collapse of the U.S. housing market.  As the funds performed better than expected, Paris-based
Societe Generale and TCW wanted to replace Gundlach with a less
expensive asset manager, DoubleLine’s lawyers said. TCW has
argued that Gundlach isn’t entitled to management and
performance fees from the funds after his firing.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 