-- 
BofA Ordered to Pay $930,000 to Fired Whistleblower

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-09-14T19:58:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/bofa-ordered-to-pay-930-000-to-whistleblower.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  must pay
$930,000 to an employee who uncovered fraud at Countrywide
Financial Corp. and was fired in violation of whistleblower
protections, the U.S. Department of Labor said.  The employee was terminated soon after the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based bank took over Countrywide in 2008, the agency
said today in a  statement . The worker, who must also be
reinstated, led internal investigations that found “pervasive
wire, mail and bank fraud involving Countrywide employees,”
according to the release.  “It’s clear from our investigation that Bank of America
used illegal retaliatory tactics against this employee,” said
David Michaels, assistant secretary of the Labor Department’s
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, in the statement.
“This employee showed great courage reporting potential fraud
and standing up for the rights of other employees.”  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
51, has been settling demands from buyers and insurers of soured
mortgages created by Countrywide, which had been acquired by his
predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis . Countrywide was the biggest
creator of subprime loans, made to homeowners with the weakest
credit, and regulators and lawmakers have blamed lax
underwriting for fueling defaults.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, had
investigated the claims and is “disappointed” with the ruling,
said  Dan Frahm , a company spokesman.  Management Style  “The bank’s actions in dismissing this associate were
solely based on issues with her management style and in no way
related to the complaints and allegations she made,” Frahm said
in an e-mail. “Bank of America encourages associates to raise
issues they see. We take such escalations seriously and
investigate them thoroughly.”  The Los Angeles-area worker claimed that people who tried
to report fraud to Countrywide’s employee-relations department
suffered persistent retaliation, according to the agency. The
$930,000 includes back wages, interest, compensatory damages and
attorney fees.  The worker and Bank of America have 30 days to appeal the
monetary damages, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 