-- 
BofA Cuts May Aid PNC as Rivals Challenge Too-Big-to-Fail Firms

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-09-14T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/bofa-retreat-may-aid-pnc-as-regional-banks-challenge-too-big-to-fail-firms.html
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,
U.S. Bancorp and  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  are among firms that may
benefit as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  sells assets to raise capital.  PNC this year pushed deeper into the southeast, a Bank of
America stronghold, with the purchase of Royal Bank of Canada’s
U.S. retail unit. U.S. Bancorp is investing in corporate banking
and wealth management, a domain of BofA’s Merrill Lynch, as it
increases offerings for high-net-worth clients. Toronto-Dominion
agreed last month to buy Bank of America’s credit-card business
in Canada and also has expanded in the U.S.  “The winners out of this will be those banks that aren’t
in the too-big-to-fail category,” said Blake Howells, an
analyst at  Portland , Oregon-based Becker Capital Management
Inc., which oversees $2.2 billion, including Bank of America
shares. Regional lenders and banks aiming to round out product
lines will benefit most, he said.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
is selling businesses to build capital as housing losses drain
resources and regulators tighten rules on how lenders manage
funds. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company also
announced plans this week to cut 30,000 jobs in the next few
years to trim costs and reverse the decline of its shares.  Moynihan, 51, aims to boost investor confidence after the
stock slid 54 percent since he became CEO in January 2010. It’s
this year’s worst performer in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .
His tenure includes posting a record $8.8 billion quarterly
loss, committing $30 billion to clean up faulty mortgages and
selling about $40 billion of assets and preferred shares.  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment about how the lender’s overhaul may benefit competitors.  Biggest Lender  U.S. Bancorp and Pittsburgh-based PNC may be poised to
expand, Howells said, as Bank of America shrinks and cedes its
title as the biggest U.S. lender by assets. Other so-called
super-regional banks could seize the opportunity, according to
Rebel Cole, a former Federal Reserve economist and now a finance
professor at DePaul University in  Chicago .  “The super-regionals probably have the most to gain,”
Cole said in a phone interview. “I don’t see where the other
big banks -- the four behemoths -- will do anything, and if
anything they may see the handwriting on the wall and get
smaller themselves.”  PNC, which bought Cleveland-based National City Corp. in
2008, paid less than tangible book value to RBC for 420 branches
in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, the Carolinas and Virginia.  ‘Significant Opportunities’  “Our planned acquisition of the RBC Bank provides us with
significant opportunities to increase clients and cross-sell
products and services,” PNC CEO James Rohr, 62, said Sept. 12
at an investor conference in  New York .  Rohr declined to answer analysts’ questions about whether
the bank was picking up customers from weakened rivals.
Spokesmen for PNC, U.S. Bancorp and Toronto-based TD declined to
comment about whether their companies expect to benefit from
Bank of America’s retrenchment.  U.S. Bancorp CEO  Richard Davis  earlier this year
highlighted the Minneapolis-based firm’s recent expansion in
corporate banking.  “The coup de grace has been the absolute and undeniable
growth of our corporate bank,” Davis, 53, said during a June 2
investor presentation. “We are now a very high-quality national
-- even global -- corporate bank.”  A month later, Davis said the lender wouldn’t make an
acquisition so big that it would alter the way the company
operates or manages its balance sheet.  ING Deal  The ranks of expanding lenders include  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF) , the only gainer this year in the 24-company  KBW
Bank Index. (BKX)  The McLean, Virginia-based firm agreed in June to
purchase ING Groep NV’s U.S. online bank, a deal that would make
Capital One the fifth-largest U.S. bank by domestic deposits.
Last month, the company said it would buy about $30 billion of
credit-card assets from London-based HSBC Holdings Plc.  Bank of America, the KBW’s worst performer of 2011 through
yesterday, is divesting non-U.S. credit-card assets. It will
sell the Canada card unit, with $8.6 billion in loan balances,
to Toronto-Dominion and plans to exit the U.K. and Ireland, the
firm said last month. Its FIA Card Services unit sold a $1
billion portfolio to Regions Financial Corp., the 10th-largest
U.S. bank by deposits, and $200 million in loan balances to
Sovereign Bank, a unit of Madrid-based Banco Santander SA.  JPMorgan, Wells Fargo  Moynihan also is overhauling home-lending operations, which
posted a $14.5 billion loss in the second quarter. In February
he split the mortgage division, separating distressed loans from
performing mortgages and new lending. Bank of America said Aug.
31 that it plans to sell or shut its correspondent-mortgage
unit, which buys loans from smaller companies.  That may benefit the lender’s biggest rivals, including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   “On the mortgage side it’s pretty clear JPMorgan and Wells
Fargo are the winners,” Howells said.  Wells Fargo had 28.4 percent of the residential mortgage
market in the first quarter, up from 22.5 percent a year
earlier, while New York-based JPMorgan made 12.8 percent of U.S.
home loans, up from 9.6 percent a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of America’s share declined to
19.4 percent from 20.9 percent, the data show.  “We just don’t need to be the biggest,” Moynihan said in
a Sept. 6 interview. “It’s time to simplify the organization,
streamline the organization and make sure our business processes
are relevant when you have a smaller, more focused company.”  Deposit Leaders  JPMorgan became the largest U.S. bank by deposits in the
second quarter with $1.05 trillion, surpassing Bank of America’s
$1.04 trillion. New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  ranks third with
$866.3 billion, followed by Wells Fargo with $853.6 billion.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the insurer whose banking unit has increased
mortgage lending, also may benefit. MetLife Bank agreed in June
to become the “preferred mortgage lender” of KB Home,
replacing Bank of America in a mortgage-distribution deal. KB
Home is the Los Angeles-based builder that targets first-time
home buyers.  “Whoever is the most aggressive about gaining market share
will benefit,” said  Christopher Thornberg , co-founding
principal of Beacon Economics LLC, a Los Angeles consulting
firm. “You can pick up assets at a good price and clean them up
and generate value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 