-- 
BOJ Ready to Act Amid Strong Yen Concern

-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 
2011-09-14T03:29:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/boj-ready-to-act-amid-strong-yen-concern.html
Bank of Japan (8301)  board member Ryuzo Miyao said the central bank is ready to take “appropriate”
action as needed to support the economy amid worries that the
yen will stay strong.  “An area of concern is that the strong yen is taking
root,” Miyao, 47, said in a speech in Hakodate, northern  Japan .
If the dollar and euro remain weak against the yen on sovereign-
debt worries, “concern about the hollowing-out of domestic
industries will increase,” he said.  The yen’s appreciation to a post-World War II high last
month threatens to derail the nation’s export-dependent recovery
from the March 11 earthquake. Finance Minister Jun Azumi said
Sept. 11 he explained to counterparts of the Group of Seven
nations in Marseille,  France  that Japan is prepared to take
“bold actions” against speculative moves in the yen.  Miyao said the strong yen could hurt Japan’s growth
potential if it leads to companies moving their operations
abroad. The appreciation also has benefits such as lowering
import costs and helping companies invest overseas, he said.  “It’s important to continue to act in an appropriate
manner if it’s judged necessary,” on monetary policy, he said.  Japanese officials intervened in the  currency market  on
Aug. 4 to stem the yen’s gains. On the same day the BOJ
bolstered an asset-buying fund to 15 trillion yen ($195 billion)
from 10 trillion yen, while leaving its target interest rate
near zero percent.  Yen’s Advance  The intervention failed to stop the strengthening of the
yen, which rose to a postwar record of 75.95 per dollar on Aug.
19. Concern that U.S. economic growth will slow and  Europe ’s
debt crisis will deepen spurred buying of the yen as a haven.
The yen traded at 76.94 per dollar at 11:51 a.m. in Tokyo.  Japan’s economy shrank at a 2.1 percent annual pace in the
three months through June, the third straight quarter of
contraction. Government data suggest that the global slowdown
may weigh on Japan’s recovery, with industrial output and
machinery orders both weaker than economists forecast. The Asian
Development Bank today cut its 2011 estimate for Japan’s economy
to a 0.5 percent contraction from a previous estimate for a 1.5
percent expansion.  A magnitude-9 temblor and tsunami struck the northeast area
of Japan on March 11, leaving more than 19,000 people dead or
missing and triggering the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.
The disaster caused companies to cut production and consumers to
reduce spending amid electricity shortages and supply-chain
interruptions.  Risks to Japan’s recovery include the possibility overseas
demand will weaken as the recovery in U.S. and European
economies slow, and rising electricity costs as the country
moves away from nuclear energy, Miyao said. He also said the
lengthening of deflationary expectations is a worry.  Miyao, a Harvard-educated scholar who taught macro economic
policy at Kobe University in western Japan, joined the BOJ as a
board member last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in  Tokyo  at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  