-- 
Bolton Chasing Chilean Star Magnasco, Daily Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-09-14T10:05:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/bolton-chasing-chilean-star-magnasco-daily-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Bolton Chase  Chilean right-back Stefano Magnasco is spending two weeks
training with  Bolton Wanderers ’ first team, the  Daily Mirror 
reported.  The player, who can quit Universidad Catolica for a fee of
around 225,000 pounds ($355,000), wants to join Bolton during
the January transfer window.  Germany ’s Bayer Leverkusen has also
expressed an interest in the 18-year-old, the paper said.  Wayne Grown Up?  Wayne Rooney’s form this season, which helped him become
only the fourth player in Premier League history to score hat-
tricks in consecutive matches, is all down to his growing up,
the  Daily Telegraph  quoted  Manchester United  manager  Alex
Ferguson  as saying.  “When players get to their mid-20s, there is more thought
in their game,” Ferguson said. “Their timing is better.
Wayne’s presence is good and he is looking fantastic.”  Woodgate Woe  Former England defender Jonathan Woodgate has been dropped
from  Stoke’s  Europa League squad because the team doesn’t want
to risk injury by letting him spend too much time “cooped up”
on airplanes, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Woodgate played only four times for Spurs in the past two
years, as he was plagued by injuries, and switched to Stoke this
offseason. His new club will be playing Dinamo Kiev of Ukraine
tomorrow, and also has to travel to Israel and  Turkey  this
season.  Blackburn Protest March  Blackburn  fans are planning a march to Ewood Park before
the team plays Arsenal next weekend, demanding the club’s new
owners fire coach  Steve Kean  and bring back former boss Mark
Hughes, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Blackburn was bought last year by Indian poultry company
Venky’s for 46 million pounds. It’s currently bottom of the
Premier League, taking just one point from four games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 