-- 
Boston’s Fenway Park Celebrates 100 Years With Yankees Visit Next Season

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-14T17:14:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/boston-s-fenway-park-celebrates-100-years-with-yankees-visit-next-season.html
A  Boston Red Sox ’s centennial
celebration of Fenway Park against the  New York Yankees  is part
of Major League Baseball’s preliminary schedule for 2012.  The Red Sox host the Yankees on April 20, 100 years to the
day after beating the then- New York  Highlanders 7-6 in Fenway
Park’s baseball debut, the team said in a news release.  The Yankees begin their season April 6 with a road series
at the Tampa Bay Rays. They play their first home game April 13
versus the Los Angeles Angels, and the final series of the
season is a three-game meeting with Boston at Yankee Stadium
from Oct. 1-3.  In interleague play, the Yankees continue their subway
series with the New York Mets during matchups at both stadiums.
They also host the  Cincinnati Reds  and the Braves, and play at
the Braves and Nationals.  The Red Sox will play interleague road games at the
Philadelphia Phillies, Chicago Cubs and Miami Marlins, who will
change their name from the Florida Marlins when moving into a
new ballpark next season. Boston also hosts three National
League clubs: the Washington Nationals, Marlins and Atlanta
Braves.  The Marlins’ will open their 37,000-seat, retractable roof
stadium, currently called New Marlins Ballpark, in the season’s
first game on April 4 against the St. Louis Cardinals.  The Mets will open their 50th season with a home series
against the Braves, beginning April 5 with an afternoon game.  The Mets also host the  Baltimore Orioles  and play at the
Toronto Blue Jays and Rays in interleague matchups.  The Phillies, whose 94-51 record is the best in baseball,
begin their 2012 campaign with a road series against the
Pittsburgh Pirates and end the season at Washington. They also
play the Orioles, Minnesota Twins and Blue Jays in the American
League clubs’ ballparks, while hosting the  Red Sox  and Rays at
Citizen Bank Park in Philadelphia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 