-- 
BP Cost-Cutting, Conflicts Preceded Gulf Disaster, U.S. Says

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-09-14T20:26:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/bp-transocean-halliburton-faulted-by-u-s-in-2010-gulf-spill.html
BP Plc (BP)  managers overseeing the
Macondo well were distracted by cost overruns and personal
conflicts in the weeks before the April 2010 disaster that
fouled the  Gulf of Mexico  with almost 5 million barrels of oil,
the U.S. said today.  A 212-page report issued today by a joint Interior
Department-Coast Guard panel reflects a management team in
disarray when it was supposed to be monitoring and directing the
“critical” final stages of drilling the well 40 miles (62
kilometers) off the Louisiana coast.  While holding BP “ultimately responsible” for ensuring
the safety of crew members and the environment,  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ,
owner of the rig that was drilling the well, and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) 
shared some blame for the catastrophe that killed 11 workers,
injured 17 and led to the worst U.S. marine oil spill, the
report said. All three companies violated federal offshore
safety regulations, the panel concluded. Halliburton provided
the cement used in the well and related technical services.  John Guide, the BP engineer who led the team that designed
and oversaw the Macondo project, based key decisions involving
equipment selection and safety tests on whether they would boost
costs for a project that was already $58 million, or 61 percent,
over budget, the report said.  Team in Conflict  Evidence collected by investigators showed “BP personnel
were aware of the cost overruns and were concerned about
incurring additional costs that they deemed unnecessary,” the
panel said. Guide’s “effectiveness at reducing costs was part
of the evaluation of his performance as wells team leader.”  Guide, described by a presidential commission that
conducted a separate probe into the disaster as the Macondo
project’s “de facto leader,” worried he was about to be fired,
according to an e-mail he wrote to his boss five days before the
catastrophe, which was cited in today’s report.  David Sims , who
as drilling and completions manager was Guide’s superior,
expressed concerns about his leadership skills but failed to
make any changes, the panel said.  Including details about Guide’s work relationships in the
investigative report was “downright cowardly” and “unfair,”
David J. Stetler, a Chicago attorney representing the BP
engineer, said in an interview today. Guide, who remains a BP
employee, was unavailable to comment because he’s out of the
country, his lawyer said.  “Despite public skepticism, John Guide never once made any
decision that sacrificed safety for financial or any other
reasons, not once in his life,” Stetler said.  Personnel Conflicts  An engineer on Guide’s team was considering changing jobs
or quitting due to the turmoil, and the senior BP manager aboard
the rig,  Donald Vidrine , was fed up with multiple last-minute
changes in instructions from shore-based engineers, the report
said.  The personnel conflicts and missteps absorbed the attention
and time that Macondo team members should have been devoting to
the drilling project in the weeks and days leading up to the
catastrophe, the panel said.  BP’s American depositary receipts, each of which represents
six regular shares, rose $1.84, or 5.1 percent, to $38.29 at
4:08 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The ADRs
have lost 37 percent of their value since the April 20, 2010,
incident. Transocean rose $2.39, or 4.2 percent, to $58.89.
Halliburton fell 13 cents to $39.36.  The cement that Houston-based Halliburton poured to seal
the wellbore from the oil- and gas-soaked rock formation failed,
allowing explosive gas to surge up to the rig floor to
devastating effect, the report said.  Series of Mistakes  “The precise reasons for the failure of the production
casing cement job are not known,” the panel said. The most
likely causes were contamination of the cement with other fluids
used in well operations, or pumping the cement beyond the target
zone, creating a gap through which gas and oil could flow,
according to the report.  “BP made a series of decisions that complicated cementing
operations, added incremental risk, and may have contributed to
the ultimate failure of the cement job,” the report said.  Zelma Branch, a Halliburton spokeswoman, said BP was in
charge of design and well-construction decisions that left it
vulnerable to a blowout. “Every contributing cause where
Halliburton is named, the operational responsibility lies solely
with BP,” Branch said in an e-mailed statement.  Transocean Takes Exception  Federal investigators faulted BP for failing to apprise
Transocean crew members of all the risks associated with
numerous design decisions. Nonetheless, Transocean and
Halliburton workers aboard the Deepwater Horizon rig that night
should have noticed the tell-tale signs that a blowout was
imminent, the panel said.  “We take strong exception to criticisms of the Horizon
drill crew, nine of whom perished fighting to save their fellow
crew members and the rig, for the actions they took in the face
of such an unprecedented emergency,”  Brian Kennedy , a spokesman
for Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean, said in an e-mailed
statement.  In addition to the nine Transocean employees, two
contractors from drilling-fluid provider M-I Swaco also died in
the incident. Of the 126 people aboard the rig that night, 115
survived by getting into escape capsules or leaping from the
deck into the ocean, a drop of more than 80 feet.  “From the outset, BP acknowledged its role in the accident
and has taken concrete steps to further enhance safety and risk
management throughout its global operations, including the
implementation of new voluntary standards and practices in the
Gulf of Mexico that exceed current regulatory requirements and
strengthen the oversight of contractors,” London-based BP said
in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  