-- 
Brazil July GDP Grew at Fastest in Six Months as Rousseff Eyes 4% Growth

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-09-14T16:21:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/brazil-july-gdp-grew-at-fastest-in-six-months-as-rousseff-eyes-4-growth.html
Brazil ’s economy expanded at its
fastest pace in six months in July, even as the central bank
bets on slower growth to curb the fastest inflation in six
years.  Economic activity, a proxy for gross domestic product, rose
0.46 percent in July from the previous month, according to the
central bank’s seasonally adjusted index, after contracting a
revised 0.25 percent in June. The increase was in line with the
0.50 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 11
analysts.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini cut the benchmark
 interest rate  a half point to 12 percent on Aug. 31, after
raising it at the previous five policy meetings, citing a
“substantial deterioration” in the global economy. Traders are
betting the central bank will cut the rate to 11 percent by the
end of the year, according to Bloomberg estimates based on
interest rate futures.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell five
basis points to 10.68 percent at 11:41 a.m. New York time. The
real weakened 1.2 percent to 1.7308 per dollar.  Activity was up 1.66 percent from the same month a year
ago, according to the non-seasonally adjusted series.  Rousseff  President Dilma Rousseff today said that she hopes  Latin
America ’s biggest economy will grow “a little more” than 4
percent this year, more than analysts are forecasting.  “We’re going to make an effort for growth to reach 4
percent and a little more,” she told reporters in Brasilia.
“We’re counting on a resurgence in the last quarter.”  Economists lowered the growth forecast in the latest
central bank survey. They now expect growth to slow to 3.56
percent this year, down from a forecast of 4 percent at the
start of June. Last year the economy expanded 7.5 percent, its
fastest pace in more than two decades.  Brazil’s growth rate will lag that of Russia, India and
 China , the other so-called BRIC countries, between 2011 and
2014, according to forecasts from the  International Monetary
Fund .  Consumer prices rose 7.23 percent in the year through
August, exceeding the 6.5 percent upper limit of the central
bank’s target range for a fifth straight month. The bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  