-- 
U.K. Will Sue European Cental Bank Over Location Policy for Clearinghouses

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-15T09:33:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/britain-to-sue-ecb-over-planned-restrictions-on-clearing-houses.html
Britain will sue the  European
Central Bank  over plans to prevent some euro-denominated
securities from being cleared outside the 17 countries that
share the currency, in the first such move by a government.  The U.K. will present a legal challenge against the ECB
over its location policy for clearing houses at the  European
Court  of Justice in Luxembourg today, the Treasury in  London 
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “It does seem to indicate a possible change in the
approach that the U.K. is taking to Europe,” Darren Fox, a
financial services lawyer at Simmons & Simmons LLP, said in a
telephone interview in London. “There has been a perception in
the City that the U.K. hasn’t been doing as much in  Europe  as it
could have done to protect the interests of the U.K. financial-
services industry. Perhaps this is a sign that the worm is
turning.”  It’s the first time any European government has sought to
sue the ECB, the Treasury said. The U.K. is accusing the central
bank of going against principles of the European Union single
market and contravening European law amid wider international
efforts to regulate derivatives markets.  A spokeswoman for the Frankfurt-based ECB declined to
comment.  Relocation  The ECB’s policy “contravenes European law and fundamental
single market principles,” the U.K. Treasury said. “The
government wants to see this resolved swiftly and without
involving the courts but if necessary will not shy away from
continuing legal action.”  A change to the ECB’s location policy would force some
London-based houses that clear euro-denominated products to
relocate to a euro-region country. The ECB originally put
forward its plan a decade ago and made the proposal again a
month ago.  The development comes as  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) 
holds talks with LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. to buy all or part of
the world’s biggest clearing house for swaps, as increased
global regulation makes the business more profitable.  Clearing Risk  Clearing houses such as LCH.Clearnet and Deutsche Boerse
AG’s  Eurex Clearing  operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  European Union governments have discussed giving clearing
houses access to central-bank liquidity as a way to prevent them
from collapsing and causing a financial crisis.  The ECB has said clearing activities should take place in
the euro region if it is expected to provide such financial
support.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
said last year that access to central bank liquidity could be
useful in preventing clearing houses “becoming a source of risk
to the financial system in themselves.” It included the idea in
proposals it made in September 2010 to push trading of over-the-
counter derivatives through central clearing.  “I don’t think the U.K. has a foot to stand upon,”  Karel Lannoo , chief executive officer of the Centre for European
Policy Studies, a Brussels-based policy group, said in a
telephone interview.  “Overnight liquidity is only given by the ECB to banks in
the  euro zone , and that’s for financial stability reasons,”
Lannoo said. The ECB is simply applying the same principle to
clearing houses, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Wroclaw, Poland at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  