-- 
Brown Upgraded in Market as California Gap Shrinks: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-09-14T21:16:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/brown-upgraded-in-market-as-california-gap-shrinks-muni-credit.html
Governor  Jerry Brown ’s campaign to
shrink California’s deficit helped the most-populous U.S. state
slash borrowing costs as much as 88 percent on a $5.4 billion
note sale, exceeding yield declines in short-term municipal
securities.  California took orders for two-thirds of the revenue-
anticipation notes from individual investors, said  Tom Dresslar ,
a spokesman for Treasurer Bill Lockyer. A tranche maturing May
24 was priced at 0.38 percent, while the bulk of the bonds,
maturing June 26, were offered at 0.40 percent.  The notes, meant to bolster  cash flow  until taxes are
collected, were offered with yields as low as 17 basis points
above yields on AAA rated tax-exempt debt maturing in one year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 144
basis points above that benchmark on a $10 billion sale of such
notes in November. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “ California ’s economy is huge, it’s diverse and it’s
moving in the right direction from a fiscal perspective and it’s
being evidenced in the low yields and the relatively high level
of demand that we expect to see from this deal,” Neil Klein,
who manages $925 million at New York-based Carret Asset
Management, said yesterday in an interview.  Brown, 73, in June brokered an $85.9 billion general-fund
spending plan with fellow Democrats that filled a $26 billion
deficit with $12 billion in spending cuts and an equal amount of
revenue growth. The state would have run out of money if there
had been a repeat of last year, when Republican Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger locked horns with lawmakers over a similar
deficit for 100 days past the start of the fiscal year.  Improved Rating  California was able to offer the lower yields after
 Standard & Poor’s  awarded the revenue anticipation notes its
highest  credit rating  since 2007. The company also rescinded the
state’s negative long-term outlook after the austerity budget
was enacted in June.  Yields on the state’s short-term debt have dropped by about
80 percent compared with last year, while rates on top-rated
one-year general-obligation debt have decreased by one-third,
according to Bloomberg data.  Following Schwarzenegger’s late budget last year,
California sold $7.75 billion of RANs on Nov. 18 that matured in
June, yielding 1.75 percent, or 154 basis points more than the
0.40 percent offered today. In comparison, yields on top-rated
one-year debt were 0.21 percent yesterday, down from 0.313
percent on Nov. 18.  Improving Economy  The deal benefited from an improving economy, pent-up
demand for the debt following Brown’s January suspension of bond
issues and relatively higher yields compared with states such as
 Texas , which carries the same short-term rating. S&P rates the
state’s long-term debt at AA+, the second-highest grade,
compared with California’s A-, the lowest among U.S. states.  The note sale is “being pretty well received,” said
George Hribar, head bond trader at Alamo Capital in Walnut
Creek, California, one of the firms marketing the issue. “It
came to the market just cheap enough to be enticing for short-
term paper.”  Texas on Aug. 23 sold $9.8 billion of general-obligation
tax and revenue anticipation notes due August 2012. The security
traded the same day at an average yield of 0.25 percent, 15
basis points to 30 basis points below California’s preliminary
range yesterday of 0.40 percent to 0.55 percent.  “Historically there wasn’t necessarily this spread between
the two,” William Henderson, who oversees $16 billion of short-
term municipal assets at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  in Princeton,  New
Jersey . “But in recent years as California ran into credit
issues, there was a spread created.”  Budget Passage  Passage of the budget for the year that began July 1
cleared the way for Lockyer to sell the short-term securities
because the budget must show there’s enough money left over at
year’s end to repay investors.  Lockyer plans to use the proceeds from the revenue notes to
pay off a cash-flow loan he secured July 27 from  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , six other banks and investors.
The treasurer took the loan anticipating a possible credit-
market disruption as Congress debated raising the nation’s debt
ceiling.  Without that bridge loan, the state was in danger of
running out of money, as it did in 2009, when the controller
issued $2.6 billion of IOUs amid a legislative budget impasse.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net 
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  