-- 
Calisolar Cuts Staff After Turning Down Loan Guarantee

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-09-16T13:04:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/calisolar-fires-23-percent-after-turning-down-loan-guarantee.html
(Corrects conversion in eighth paragraph of story
published Sept. 14.)  Calisolar Inc., a solar
manufacturer that withdrew its application for a U.S. Energy
Department loan guarantee, is firing 23 percent of its workforce
as it shifts its business model.  Closely held Calisolar is firing 80 people at a solar-cell
plant and will focus on manufacturing polysilicon used to make
the cells, the Sunnyvale, California-based company said today in
an e-mailed statement. Calisolar has 350 employees, according to
its website.  The job cuts come as solar manufacturers are struggling
with foreign competition and plummeting prices for their
products. Prices for solar cells have dropped 43 percent in the
past year, and solar-panel manufacturers Evergreen Solar Inc.,
SpectraWatt Inc. and Solyndra LLC have filed for bankruptcy in
the past month.  “We will significantly downsize commercial cell production
and -- as a result -- reduce the  labor force ” at the Sunnyvale,
California, facility, the company said in the statement. The
company said it is “reviewing several options” for the plant.  The company is building a polysilicon manufacturing plant
in  Mississippi  after the state offered $75 million in
incentives.  Calisolar was offered in June a $275 million Energy
Department loan guarantee to build a plant in  Ohio . It withdrew
its application because it couldn’t begin construction by a
Sept. 30 deadline, Damien LaVera, a department spokesman, said
in an e-mail today. Solyndra received a $535 million loan
guarantee in 2009.  Shifting to Polysilicon  Shifting to polysilicon makes sense because prices have
held up better than solar-cell prices, said Aaron Chew, an
analyst at Maxim Group LLC in  New York .  Polysilicon costs $50.50 a kilogram ($22.95 a pound) this
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, 15 percent less than a year ago. Multicrystalline
solar-cell prices fell 43 percent over the same period to 80
cents a watt.  Chew expects polysilicon prices to decline in the next year
to “the mid 30s,” which will likely affect Calisolar’s
profits. “The risk with these guys is they make a big decision
based on current economics and in two years economics change,”
he said.  Calisolar is seeking to be “the lowest-cost producer” of
solar silicon, Chief Executive Officer Sandra Beach Lin said in
a September interview. The company says it uses raw materials
that cost less than what competitors use, according to its
 website .  Calisolar’s Mississippi plant will cost $600 million and
allow it to produce 16,000 metric tons a year. It will employ
951 people, according to a  statement  from the state’s governor
 Haley Barbour . The company also has a plant in Ontario,  Canada .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  