-- 
Canada Second Quarter Capacity Utilization Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-09-14T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/canada-second-quarter-capacity-utilization-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's capacity utilization report for the second
quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  Canadian industries operated at 78.4% of their
production capacity in the second quarter, down from 78.9%
in the previous quarter. The decline followed seven
consecutive quarterly increases in capacity utilization.  Declines in manufacturing industries, particularly
transportation equipment, were behind the second quarter
drop. Capacity use fell in 15 of the 21 major
manufacturing industries.  Manufacturing: Transportation equipment biggest
contributor to reduction in capacity use  Capacity use in manufacturing declined from 79.6% to
78.8% during the second quarter, following a 2.8
percentage point increase the previous quarter. However,
the second quarter rate remained higher than any rates
recorded in 2008, 2009 and 2010.  The transportation equipment industry was by far the
biggest contributor to the reduction in capacity use in
manufacturing. Other significant contributors to the
decline were manufacturers of beverage and tobacco
products, chemicals, and non-metallic mineral products.  Capacity use increased in machinery, food, primary
metals, computer and electronic products, and furniture
and related products, while it remained unchanged in
textile product mills.  In the transportation equipment industry, capacity use
fell 4.5 percentage points to 79.6%, following a 4.1
percentage point increase the previous quarter. The second
quarter rate was still much higher than the annual rates
of 2008 and 2009, and remained above the 2010 annual
level. Lower sales in the second quarter were offset by a
boost in inventory levels, thus limiting the decline in
the use of productive capacity.  The decrease in the transportation equipment industry
was mainly explained by a decline in motor vehicles and
parts manufacturing, resulting from supply chain
disruptions following the tsunami in  Japan  in March. Motor
vehicles and parts manufacturers sharply reduced
production in April, followed by a slight decrease in May.
Production started recovering in June but remained well
below March levels.  In the beverage and tobacco products industry, capacity
use declined 4.9 percentage points to 67.0%, following a
4.2 percentage point gain the previous quarter. Production
at distilleries declined sharply, while output also fell
at breweries and soft drink and ice manufacturers.  In the chemical industry, capacity use eased from 77.1%
to 75.9%. This decline was mainly a result of reduced
production of pharmaceuticals and medicine, which fell for
the fifth quarter in a row. Lower production of basic
chemicals also played a role in the decline in capacity
use in the  chemical industry .  In the non-metallic mineral products industry, capacity
use fell from 78.3% to 76.6%. Lower cement and concrete
production accounted for the decline.  Manufacturers of machinery boosted their capacity
utilization rate from 83.0% to 86.0% as a result of higher
production of mining and oil and gas machinery, and other
general purpose machinery. This corresponds with higher
exports of industrial and agricultural machinery in the
second quarter.  Non-manufacturing: Mixed performance  In forestry and logging, capacity use fell sharply from
96.4% to 89.3%. Second quarter production fell sharply
despite an increase in constant-dollar exports of forestry
products.  The oil and gas extraction industry cut back the use of
its productive capacity from 85.3% to 83.1%, as production
of both crude petroleum and natural gas decreased. Alberta
wildfires and maintenance shutdowns of refineries
negatively affected petroleum production. Exports of crude
petroleum fell, while natural gas exports rose slightly.  Capacity use in mining rose from 71.0% to 72.0%, mainly
a result of higher production in support activities for
mining and oil and gas extraction.  In the  construction industry , capacity use rose from
76.1% to 76.8%, primarily a result of an increase in
residential construction. Output also advanced in
engineering and other construction, while production in
non-residential building construction fell.  In the electric power generation, transmission and
distribution industry, capacity use increased 0.3
percentage point to 77.7%.  Note to readers  The industrial capacity utilization rate is the ratio
of an industry's actual output to its estimated potential
output. For most industries, the annual estimates are
obtained from the Capital and Repair Expenditures Survey
while the quarterly pattern is derived from output-to-
capital ratio series, the output being the real gross
domestic product at factor cost, seasonally adjusted, by
industry.  This program covers all manufacturing and selected non-
manufacturing industries.  With this release, rates have been revised back to the
first quarter of 2009 to reflect updated source data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  