-- 
Canada Trade Minister to Protest ‘Buy American’ Sections of U.S. Jobs Bill

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-09-14T20:55:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/canada-trade-minister-to-protest-buy-american-sections-of-u-s-jobs-bill.html
Canadian Trade Minister Ed Fast
said his government will protest “Buy American” provisions in
President Barack Obama’s $447 billion jobs proposal that require
the use of U.S. goods in construction and public works projects.  “Our government will raise with the Obama administration
and Congress concerns regarding measures that impede access for
Canadian workers and businesses to the U.S. market, as we did
for earlier U.S. stimulus programs,” Fast said in an e-mailed
statement. “History has shown protectionist measures stall
growth and kill jobs.”  The proposed U.S. legislation contains measures aimed at
reducing the country’s 9.1 percent jobless rate. The American
Jobs Act says only U.S.-made iron, steel and manufactured goods
can be used in building or repairing any public project that is
funded by the plan.  Fast said he was disappointed and surprised to learn of the
new provisions, given  Canada ’s opposition to a similar rule in
the $787-billion stimulus bill approved by Congress in 2009.  “The Americans understood how important it is that we
eliminate barriers in trade between our two countries, and this
just runs counter to that,” Fast said in a telephone interview.
“I’m hopeful that the arguments we made last time, which we
will make again very assertively and aggressively with the Obama
administration, will prevail.”  Canada obtained a waiver on the Buy American provisions of
the previous stimulus bill for U.S. municipal projects. That
waiver expires Sept. 30, said Fast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 