-- 
Canadian Dollar Weakens to Within One Cent of Parity as Oil, Copper Slide

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-09-14T21:20:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/canadian-currency-weakens-to-within-one-cent-of-parity-as-crude-oil-falls.html
Canada ’s dollar fell for the first
time in three days, weakening to within one cent of parity with
its U.S. counterpart, as oil and copper dropped on speculation a
global slowdown will hamper demand for raw materials.  The Canadian currency fell versus most of its major peers
as U.S. retail sales unexpectedly stagnated in August,
increasing concern the nation’s economic recovery is faltering.
Canada ships about three-quarters of its exports to the U.S.,
including almost all of its crude oil.  “It’s still external factors which are going to be the
driving force for the Canadian dollar,”  Jeremy Stretch ,
executive director of foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, said by phone from  London . Weaker
U.S. retail sales data mean “a reversal of the slightly
improved risk sentiment.”  The Canadian dollar, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.4 percent to
98.93 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with
98.57 cents yesterday. It weakened as much as 0.8 percent to
99.40 cents. It traded at C$1.0027 two days ago, the lowest
since Jan. 31. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0108.  The loonie extended losses after the Austrian parliament’s
finance committee rejected adding an overhaul of the European
Financial Stability Facility to the agenda of a meeting today,
spurring speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening.  Austria’s parliament will now call a special meeting for
the finance committee that will have the item on the agenda,
according to Harald Waiglein, a spokesman for the ministry. The
date could still be in September, he said.  Confidence on  Greece   The Canadian currency pared losses later after France’s
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said after speaking to Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  by
phone they’re convinced Greece will remain in the euro zone,
according to a statement from Sarkozy’s office.  U.S. retail sales were unchanged in August, following a 0.3
percent gain for July that was smaller than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast of 83 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was a 0.2 percent rise.  Canadian  government bonds  were little changed. The benchmark
10-year security yielded 2.20 percent. The 3.25 percent note
maturing in June 2021 traded at C$109.15.  The government drew an average yield of 0.954 percent today
at its auction of C$3.5 billion ($3.53 billion) of two-year
notes. The 1.5 percent securities due in November 2013 attracted
$8.86 billion in bids, according to a statement on the Bank of
Canada’s website.  Oil Declines  Canada’s currency fell versus 12 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts. Crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, dropped to
$88.54 a barrel in  New York  from yesterday’s one-month high of
$90.52, and copper slid 1.6 percent to $8,630 a metric ton.
Zinc, lead and tin also declined.  “I don’t know why the Canadian dollar is stronger than
par,”  John Curran , a senior vice president at CanadianForex
Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer, said by phone from
Toronto. “All we have to do is chew through some resting orders
in corporate Canada and other interested parties up around that
level. Once we break there, we’re off to the races, and C$1.03
is our target.”  The loonie gained 1.6 percent over the past week against
nine other developed-nation currencies traded by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The greenback rose 1.7
percent. The U.S. is Canada’s biggest trade partner.  Prospects Dimmed  The  Asian Development Bank  cut its growth forecast for its
region, dimming the prospects for raw materials, which account
for about half of Canada’s export revenue.  The loonie’s one-month correlation coefficient with crude
reached 0.82 today, approaching the reading of 0.88 it touched
in November 2009, which was the highest in at least a decade,
Bloomberg data show. A reading of 1 indicates the measures move
in lockstep.  “It’s most likely to be a buy-on-dips mentality that will
prevail as far as dollar-Canada is concerned,” CIBC’s Stretch
said. “There’s still huge amounts of uncertainty out there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  