-- 
Carl Lewis Says N.J. Residency Fight Helps Olympic Gold-Medalist’s Chances

-- B y   S t a c i e   S e r v e t a h
-- 
2011-09-14T17:53:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/carl-lewis-says-n-j-residency-fight-helps-olympic-gold-medalist-s-chances.html
Carl Lewis , the nine-time Olympic
gold medalist, said the legal fight over whether he is a New
Jersey resident has helped his campaign for state Senate by
making more people aware he’s running.  “I want to move on,” Lewis, 50, told reporters today
outside a sports bar in Westampton, south of Trenton, where he
announced his running mates for two Assembly seats. “We’re on
the ballot. We’re moving forward.”  Lewis, a Democrat vying to represent the state’s 8th
Legislative District, won a second federal appeals court ruling
yesterday allowing his name on the ballot. He persuaded the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in  Philadelphia  to reverse a Sept. 7 ruling
barring his name from the list of candidates.  The 2-1 decision reinstated the former track-and-field star
as the Democratic Party nominee. Lewis won an uncontested
primary in June after the appeals panel temporarily blocked a
ruling by  New Jersey ’s top elections official that Lewis was
ineligible because he didn’t meet residency requirements.  Lewis is the son of teachers who has been a volunteer track
coach at Willingboro High. He said education is his top  issue ,
and that educators should be judged on performance, not
seniority. While he supports collective bargaining for public
employees, Lewis declined to say whether he would have backed
the pension and benefit changes sought by Republican Governor
 Chris Christie  and enacted in June.  Residency Questions  Secretary of State Kim Guadagno, a Republican and
Christie’s lieutenant, wouldn’t certify Lewis as a candidate
last month, citing questions about where he lives. U.S. District
Court Judge Noel Hillman ruled last week that Guadagno’s
decision and the state’s four-year residency requirement didn’t
violate Lewis’s constitutional rights. November ballots are
scheduled to be printed by Sept. 18.  The case turned on whether Lewis had his primary residence
in the state before a Nov. 8, 2007, cutoff. Lewis grew up in New
Jersey and competed for Willingboro High School before moving to
Texas and  California . Lawyers for the former long jumper and
sprinter said he had a condominium in  Mount Laurel  in 2005 and
then bought a home in nearby Medford in 2007, where he lives.  Guadagno said the record showed Lewis didn’t buy his
current home until Nov. 16, 2007, eight days after the cutoff.
She also argued that Lewis certified he was a California
resident each time he voted there in three elections in 2008 and
one in 2009.  Republicans React  Burlington County Republicans, who initiated the legal
action, said the latest court decision “effectively eliminates
residency requirements to run for office in order to allow a
wealthy celebrity on the ballot.”  “We expect to appeal and are considering our legal
options,” Chris Russell, a spokesman for the county Republican
committee, said in a  statement .  Christie, a first-term Republican, told reporters today in
Bergenfield that he hasn’t discussed next steps with Guadagno or
the other Republicans who are party to the suit. The governor
said he has “absolutely no idea” how they will proceed.  “If the courts find that Carl Lewis is supposed to be in,
whether I agree personally or disagree is of no moment,”
Christie said. “If he’s supposed to be in, then he’s in. He
runs and we’ll see what happens. I’m really not all that focused
on it, nor do I care too much about it. It’s one of 40 races for
state Senate.”  Lewis has been campaigning to represent a district that has
traditionally elected Republicans. Incumbent Dawn Marie Addiego,
a Republican, was appointed to fill the vacancy left by  Phil Haines , who was named to the superior court bench.  “I’m not running for New Jersey Senate because I wanted to
become a politician, I’m running because I wanted to serve,”
Lewis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stacie Servetah in Trenton at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  