-- 
Case New Holland Says U.S. Should Move to Territorial Tax System

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-09-14T16:08:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/case-new-holland-says-u-s-should-move-to-territorial-tax-system.html
The U.S.  tax code  should require
levies only on income generated in the country, Michael Wall,
the vice president of corporate tax at Case New Holland Inc.,
 told  the House Budget Committee in Washington.  U.S.-based multinational companies are currently required
to pay taxes on income earned worldwide, though they don’t have
to pay the levy if the income remains offshore. A shift to a so-
called territorial tax system would put U.S. law in line with
other countries and make the U.S. system less complicated for
domestic companies, Wall told the panel today.  Under current tax law, U.S. companies must factor in the
higher rate they must pay on overseas profits “when these
earnings are repatriated to the  United States , which makes U.S.
companies less competitive relative to the global competition,”
Wall said. His company, Case New Holland, is a Racine,
Wisconsin-based manufacturer that is a majority-owned subsidiary
of Fiat Industrial SpA, based in Turin, Italy.  The taxation of offshore income is one of the most
significant sticking points as Congress debates a comprehensive
overhaul of the U.S. tax code. Lawmakers must balance a desire
to encourage corporate investment in the U.S. with concerns that
a territorial system would encourage domestic companies to move
more of their operations overseas.  Wall said he disagrees with the notion that a territorial
system would send more investment -- and jobs -- outside the
U.S.  ‘Tremendous Incentives’  “We strongly believe that a territorial system coupled
with a substantially lower U.S. corporate tax rate would provide
tremendous incentives for increasing operations in the U.S. for
both U.S.-based and foreign-based companies,” he said.  Companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  are lobbying Congress to pass legislation creating
a repatriation holiday that would allow companies to return
offshore income to the U.S. at a rate that is lower than the 35
percent statutory tax rate. Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas
Republican, has introduced legislation that would allow
companies to bring home income at a 5.25 percent tax rate.  Speaking at a conference in  New York  today, Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said the Obama administration would
consider repatriation or other tools to encourage investment in
the U.S. as part of a comprehensive tax code rewrite.  “You’ll see us propose ways to strengthen incentives to
bring that money back,” Geithner said at the conference, which
was sponsored by CNBC and Institutional Investor. “But we’re
not going to do that outside of corporate  tax reform  for the
simple reason that it costs a lot of money.”  Corporate  Tax Rate   Wall said he supports House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan’s proposal to lower the corporate tax rate to 25 percent.
Wall wouldn’t say which tax benefits Case New Holland would be
willing to give up to pay for lowering rates, though he said he
was open to a consumption-based levy, such as a value-added tax.  He said Congress should retain tax benefits for research
and development and accelerated depreciation.  “This is always the rub,” said Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland, the top Democrat on the Budget Committee.
“People want to talk about how to do this in general
concepts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  