-- 
McCaw Sets Mark, Carter Withdrawn; Sheridan’s Cup Over: World Cup Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-14T05:23:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/mccaw-to-set-all-blacks-record-sheridan-out-rugby-world-cup-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
stories from the 2011 Rugby World Cup in  New Zealand .  McCaw’s Milestone  New Zealand captain Richie McCaw will become the first All
Black to play 100 Test matches when he leads the team in its
Pool A game against Japan in two days.  McCaw, the only three-time International Player of the
Year, becomes the 19th person in the sport’s history to get to
100 Test appearances. Mils Muliaina was recalled at full-back to
face Japan and will play his 99th Test for New Zealand.  Muliaina’s inclusion was one of eight changes to the team
that opened the World Cup last week by beating Tonga 41-10. Andy
Ellis, Conrad Smith and  Cory Jane  also join the backline, while
 Colin Slade  will replace Dan Carter at fly-half after the All
Blacks’ playmaker failed to recover from a back injury sustained
in the Tonga match. Adam Thomson,  Keven Mealamu  and Sam
Whitelock come into the forward pack.  NEW ZEALAND: Mils Muliaina, Cory Jane, Conrad Smith, Ma’a
Nonu,  Richard Kahui , Colin Slade, Andy Ellis, Adam Thomson,
Richie McCaw (Captain), Jerome Kaino, Sam Whitelock, Brad Thorn,
Owen Franks, Keven Mealamu, Tony Woodcock.  Replacements: Andrew Hore,  John Afoa ,  Ali Williams , Victor
Vito,  Piri Weepu ,  Jimmy Cowan , Sonny Bill Williams.  Carter Not Risked  Carter, Test rugby’s leading points scorer, was withdrawn
after pulling up sore at an indoor training session today, All
Blacks doctor Deb Robinson said in a team statement. New Zealand
faces France on Sept. 24 before playing Canada on Oct. 2  “We have made the decision not to risk him for the  Japan 
match and we will aim to have him back fully training next week
in preparation for the France Test,” Robinson said.  Scrum-half Piri Weepu will provide backup to Slade, while
Jimmy Cowan was called onto the replacements’ bench to provide
cover for starting No. 9 Ellis.  Sheridan Ruled Out  England prop Andrew Sheridan was ruled out of the rest of
the World Cup after injuring his left shoulder injury in his
team’s opening match against Argentina.  The 6-foot-5, 275-pound (1.96 meter, 124 kg) Sheridan, who
had just come back after reconstructive surgery on his right
shoulder, will return home for treatment, subject to approval
from the tournament’s medical director, England’s Rugby Football
Union said in a  statement . Under  World Cup  rules, Sheridan will
not be allowed to rejoin the squad in New Zealand.  “We brought five props so we have options there and we can
bring another player out but we will decide what to do about
that in due course,” England team manager Martin Johnson said.  Habana Misses Fiji  Springboks wing Bryan Habana won’t be considered for
selection for the Pool D match against Fiji in Wellington
because of a knee injury, the South African Rugby Union said.  “Bryan could play if needed but we don’t want to take
chances,” Springboks coach Peter de Villiers said in a
statement. “We have a few weeks to go in the tournament and we
don’t want to take risks and we have some other great wings in
the squad. This is their opportunity, I hope they take it.”  Lock Victor Matfield and center Jean de Villiers have
already been ruled out of the Springboks’ second group match.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  