-- 
CFTC Should Re-Propose Swap-Dealer Definition, O’Malia Says

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-09-14T17:08:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/cftc-should-re-propose-swap-dealer-definition-o-malia-says.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  should redefine which companies are considered swaps
dealers because the drafted rules could put an unnecessary
burden on commercial energy firms, CFTC member  Scott O’Malia 
said.  If such companies are labeled dealers under the new law,
they would face margin and clearing requirements that “could
devour firms’ balance sheets and force them to make difficult
decisions between making new investments and hedging their
current commercial exposure,” O’Malia said in a speech to a
 Futures Industry Association  conference in  New York  today. The
rule, which is scheduled to be considered at a mid-October
meeting, should be re-proposed to have a more “risk-based
approach,” he said after the speech.  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  are
drafting rules under the Dodd-Frank Act governing the $601
trillion swaps market, which includes trades conducted by
Citigroup Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Cargill Inc. Dodd-
Frank, the financial-overhaul enacted in July 2010, aims to
reduce risk and boost transparency after largely unregulated
trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  Companies defined as dealers and major swap participants
will face clearing rules that lead to requirements to post
margin, or collateral, to reduce risk in the trades.  The SEC has  scheduled  a Sept. 19 meeting to propose rules
governing registration of swap dealers and other major swap
participants for derivatives tied to securities.  The CFTC’s proposed definition includes exemptions that are
“too narrow” and would lead energy firms and other end-users
to be “unintentionally caught up,” O’Malia said. A company
should be defined as a dealer if at least 15 percent of its
overall business is for trading activity, he said.  The CFTC should alter its proposal so it can “avoid
capturing firms that had nothing to do with the financial
meltdown, that would never rise to the level of ‘too big to
fail’ because they simply are not -- nor were they ever --
systemically risky,” O’Malia said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  