-- 
China’s Stocks Advance for First Time in Four Days; Coal Producers Climb

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-14T08:03:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/china-stocks-rise-for-first-time-in-four-days-commodities-producers-gain.html
China’s stocks rose, snapping three
days of losses by the benchmark index that drove valuations to a
record low, as investors speculated declines were excessive.  China United Network Communications Ltd. (600050)  rallied to a six-
week high after Sinolink Securities Co. said the stock is
“undervalued.” China Coal Energy Co., the nation’s second-
largest coal producer, advanced 1.9 percent after boosting
production. Anhui Conch Cement Co. fell 2.8 percent on concern
demand for the material will slump after the  Shanghai  Securities
News said home sales dropped in major cities.  “Stock valuations are already very low,” said Wei Wei, an
analyst at West China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Though
concerns about slowing earnings and economic growth are still
there, most of the pessimism should already be priced in now.”  The Shanghai Composite Index added 13.52 points, or 0.6
percent, to 2,484.83 at the 3 p.m. close, erasing earlier losses
of 0.6 percent and halting a three-day, 1.8 percent decline. The
 CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  gained 0.5 percent to 2,733.11.  The Shanghai gauge has slumped 12 percent this year,
extending last year’s 14 percent plunge, as the government took
steps to cool inflation that’s at an almost three-year high. The
stock gauge is valued at 11.5 times estimated profit, the lowest
on record, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg dating
back to January 2006.  Inflation will moderate in the coming months and the
country won’t see high inflation next year as it did in the
first half of the year, central bank adviser  Li Daokui  said at
the forum today.  Premier  Wen Jiabao , facing calls to widen support for
indebted European countries, signaled that developed nations
should cut deficits and create jobs rather than relying on China
to bail out the world economy.  ‘Responsible’ Policies  “Countries must first put their own houses in order,” Wen
said today at the  World Economic Forum  in Dalian, China.
“Developed countries must take responsible fiscal and monetary
policies. What is most important now is to prevent the further
spread of the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe .”  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will hold a
conference call with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy today amid increasing speculation that
 Greece  will default.  Spain  is scheduled to sell debt tomorrow,
after demand dropped during an auction by  Italy  yesterday.  China United, which controls the nation’s second-largest
cell phone operator, rose 3.2 percent to 5.10 yuan, its highest
close since Aug. 2.  Sinolink Securities set a share-price estimate of 6.96
yuan, saying China United is likely to have an “explosive”
growth in the number of subscribers of its third-generation
networks, Chen Yunhong, an analyst at the brokerage, wrote in a
report yesterday.  Coal Producers  China  Coal rose 1.9 percent to 9.64 yuan after production
of the fuel rose 17 percent last month.  Other coal producers advanced. China Shenhua Energy Co.,
the nation’s largest, added 0.6 percent to 25.64 yuan. Datong
Coal Industry Co., the third biggest, gained 1 percent to 16.02
yuan.  Anhui Conch, China’s biggest cement maker, slid 2.8 percent
to 17.77 yuan. Gansu Qilianshan Cement Group Co. lost 1 percent
to 12.69 yuan. Huaxin Cement Co., the Chinese affiliate of
Holcim Ltd., retreated 2.9 percent to 18.23 yuan.  Home transaction volumes in the cities of Beijing, Shanghai
and Shenzhen continued to fall this month, Shanghai Securities
News reported today, citing Centaline Property Agency Ltd. and
Century21. Property sales in 19 out of the 35 Chinese cities
surveyed fell last week, according to Soufun Holdings Ltd., the
country’s biggest real-estate website owner.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  