-- 
Wen Says World Must Get ‘Houses in Order,’ Not Rely on China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-14T09:52:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/china-s-wen-says-world-must-cut-debt-and-deficits-increase-jobs.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao , facing
calls to widen support for indebted European countries, signaled
that developed nations should cut deficits and open markets
rather than rely on China to bail out the world economy.  “Countries must first put their own houses in order,” Wen
said today at the  World Economic Forum  in the Chinese city of
Dalian. “Developed countries must take responsible fiscal and
monetary policies. What is most important now is to prevent the
further spread of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe.”  China can best contribute to the global economic recovery
by ensuring steady growth at home, Wen said, calling on the
European Union and U.S. to allow more Chinese investment in
return. Stocks dropped in Asia as the comments damped optimism
that  China  would help stabilize the euro region, after  Italy 
this month followed  Spain , Portugal and Greece in seeking
investment from the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  “What he is basically saying is China wants to help, they
want to invest, but we can’t help you take the proper measures
to control the debt crisis, you’ve got to do that on your own,”
said William Rhodes, a senior adviser to Citigroup Inc. who was
at Wen’s speech.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gave up its early gain of as
much as 0.3 percent to trade 1.8 percent lower at 5:19 p.m. in
 Hong Kong . Crude oil in  New York  was 1.2 percent down at $89.17
a barrel. Losses were capped after Chinese business magazine
Caijing reported that China is still willing to buy bonds of
crisis-hit nations, citing  Zhang Xiaoqiang , a vice chairman of
the National Development and Reform Commission.  ‘Doomsday’ Scenario  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou will hold a
conference call with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy today amid increasing speculation that
 Greece  will default. Spain is scheduled to sell debt tomorrow,
after demand fell at an auction by Italy yesterday.  A default by Greece would be a “doomsday” scenario, Rhee Chang Yong, chief economist of the Asian Development Bank, said
in Hong Kong today. “That’s the responsibility of the European
and advanced economies’ policy makers not to let this happen,
because if this happens, there would be huge turmoil in the
global financial market.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will press EU
finance ministers to do more to combat the crisis when he meets
with them this week, a euro-area official said. The official
spoke on condition of anonymity because preparations for the
meeting in Wroclaw,  Poland , on Sept. 16 and 17 are confidential.
It will be the first time Geithner has attended a session of
 Europe ’s Economic and Financial Affairs Council, or Ecofin.  Sustainable Growth  The European crisis was “very, very damaging in the
American economy last summer,” Geithner told Bloomberg
Television on Sept. 9. “It’s very important to the world that
Europeans do what they need to do so that the problems they’re
facing don’t spread.”  Wen said he was confident that China would achieve “longer
term, better quality” economic expansion, and that this would
be the country’s contribution to sustainable global growth. The
Chinese government would adopt policies to avoid volatility in
its economy, he said.  In return, Wen called on the U.S. to maintain fiscal and
financial stability and “ensure the interests of global
investors.” China’s $3.2 trillion of foreign-exchange reserves
make it the biggest holder of U.S. Treasuries.  The U.S. needs to lift export restrictions and, together
with the EU, open markets to investment by Chinese companies,
Wen said.  Quid Pro Quo  “We have on many occasions expressed our readiness to
extend a helping hand, and our readiness to increase our
investment in Europe,” Wen said. At the same time, “they
should recognize China’s full market economy status” before the
2016 deadline set by the World Trade Organization. “To show
one’s sincerity on this issue a few years ahead of that time is
the way a friend treats another friend,” he said.  Market economy status would help Chinese exporters defend
themselves in investigations that they are selling goods at
below cost in the EU. As part of its accession agreement to join
the WTO in December 2001, China agreed to be recognized as a
non-market economy for 15 years in anti-dumping probes.  “China knows ‘we’re in this together,’ and it will benefit
by helping its two biggest export markets,” said Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities  Asia 
Ltd. who has worked for the  International Monetary Fund  and
 European Central Bank . China’s leaders are taking “into account
the nation’s own development strategy, such as recognition of
market status, which is very important for Chinese business.”  ‘Last Resort’  The Chinese government shouldn’t buy bonds issued by
individual euro-area countries because their leaders and the
European Central Bank are in disarray, Yu Yongding, a former
adviser to China’s central bank, said in e-mailed comments
today.  The nation is not a lender of last resort for “troubled
countries,” said Yu. “China has to wait until it can see a
clearer road map by euro countries for solving sovereign-debt
problems,” he said today.  Finance ministers from  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India , China and
 South Africa  will meet on Sept. 22 to discuss the European debt
crisis and make a decision on whether they will help, R.
Gopalan, secretary in the Department of Economic Affairs in
India’s finance ministry, said in  New Delhi  today.  ‘Not Poor’  The European “countries are not poor,” said Rhodes,
author of “Banker to the World: Leadership Lessons from the
Front Lines of Global Finance.” “They have got to get their
act together, just like we have to in the  United States .”  Italian officials held talks in the past few weeks with
Chinese counterparts about potential investments in the country,
an Italian government official said Sept. 12, adding that bonds
weren’t the focus.  “A few months ago, China said it would buy Eurozone debt
but then they bought really little of it at auctions,” said Jan Lambregts, global head of financial market research at Rabobank
International in  London . “They haven’t really been putting
their money where their mouth is.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  