-- 
China Willing to Buy Bonds From Sovereign-Debt-Crisis Nations, Zhang Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-15T05:16:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/china-willing-to-buy-bonds-from-sovereign-debt-crisis-nations-zhang-says.html
China is willing to buy euro bonds
from countries involved in the sovereign debt crisis “within
its capacity,”  Zhang Xiaoqiang , vice chairman of the nation’s
top economic planning agency, said today.  China is prepared to offer assistance, Zhang said at the
 World Economic Forum  in Dalian in a reiteration of comments
Premier Wen Jiabao made yesterday at the event. Zhang, who
didn’t elaborate on China’s possible purchase of euro bonds,
also made similar remarks yesterday in an interview with media,
according to a  transcript  posted to the website of the National
Development and Reform Commission.  Wen, facing calls to widen support for indebted European
countries, said developed nations must first “put their own
houses in order,” cut deficits and open markets rather than
rely on China to bail out the world economy. China can best
contribute to the global recovery by ensuring steady growth at
home, he said.  “People are hoping that China will lift the world economy,
but I think this is just wishful thinking,” Zhang, a deputy
head of the planning agency, said at the forum today during a
panel discussion. “ Europe , U.S. and  Japan  should adopt the
right policies according to their own situations and shoulder
their responsibilities,” Zhang said.  China accounts for less than 10 percent of the world
economy whereas the U.S., Europe and Japan combined account for
more than 60 percent, Zhang said.  Overestimated Role  Guo Shuqing , chairman of China Construction Bank Corp. and
former head of the nation’s foreign exchange regulator, echoed
Zhang’s view at the forum today. China’s role in the world
economy should not be overestimated and the country should buy
bonds of European governments within its capacity, Guo said.  Purchase of such debt will help the country diversify its
foreign-exchange reserves, Guo said.  China  is actively allocating its foreign-currency holdings
via commercial banks to support domestic companies going abroad,
Zhang said yesterday, according to the transcript. China will
also use the reserves to secure important commodities or obtain
resources assets overseas, he said. Caijing magazine attended
the briefing yesterday and published an article earlier.  Countries including the U.S. should become more open to
investment by Chinese companies which would create local jobs,
Zhang said yesterday.  A double-dip recession abroad is “avoidable” if the
global community increases coordination adopts “appropriate”
measures, he said.  A third round of quantitative easing in the U.S. would
increase global inflationary pressure, Zhang said yesterday.
China’s consumer price index may rise by “a bit more than 4
percent” this year, he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net 
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  