-- 
China Bad Debt Crisis ‘Impossible’ for Merchants Bank’s Ma as Risks Curbed

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-15T02:33:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/china-safe-from-defaults-merchants-bank-president.html
Chinese regulators have taken steps
to curb risks from the nation’s record lending boom and a repeat
of the bad debts that led to a $650 billion bailout last decade
is “impossible,”  China  Merchants Bank Co. said.  Non-performing assets will be “diluted” by China’s
economic growth in the next eight to 10 years, President Ma Weihua said in an interview yesterday. Regulators also
identified problems such as souring debt by local governments
“relatively early” and sought to curb risks, said the
president of China’s sixth biggest bank by market value.  A record credit boom that began in 2009 and more than $1.7
trillion of local government liabilities has fueled concerns
that China’s banks will be saddled with bad loans. Regulators
this year raised  capital requirements  and clamped down on off-
balance sheet assets, prompting Merchants Bank to seek as much
as 35 billion yuan ($5.5 billion) in a rights offer.  “It’s impossible to have a repeat of the large-scale non-
performing assets” seen at Chinese banks before the government
spent more than $650 billion in the past decade to bailout and
list the nation’s biggest lenders, Ma said in the Chinese port
city of Dalian while attending the World Economic Forum
meetings.  Shares of Shenzhen-based  Merchants Bank  rose 1.7 percent to
HK$15.24 as of 10:11 a.m. local time in  Hong Kong . The stock has
dropped 22 percent this year, compared with a 17 percent tumble
in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Local Government Debt  China’s local governments, barred from borrowing debt
directly, set up 6,576 financing vehicles by the end of 2010 to
fund projects such as new roads and airports, according to a
report from the  National Audit Office  on June 27. They had 10.7
trillion yuan in outstanding liabilities at the end of last
year, of which 8.5 trillion yuan was from bank loans, it said.  Merchants Bank last month posted a 41 percent increase in
first-half net income to 18.6 billion yuan. The lender said its
bad-loan ratio narrowed to 0.61 percent as of June 30, from 0.67
percent a year ago.  Merchants Bank is bolstering capital as China joins U.S.
and European regulators in tightening requirements to curb risks
after governments were forced to bail out lenders following the
global credit crisis. Local lenders are also raising funds to
meet credit demand in China, where outstanding loans climbed 15
percent in August from a year earlier. Shareholders approved the
lender’s planned rights offer to raise funds from China and Hong
Kong last week.  Managing Loan Rates  Ma also said yesterday that Merchants Bank will strive to
bolster its ability to price risk as the nation works to
liberalize its system for setting  interest rates . The central
bank currently sets a ceiling for the interest rate paid on  bank
deposits  and a floor on the rate for bank lending.  Central Bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said at the end of
2010 that China would make “noticeable progress” in the next
five years on interest-rate liberalization.  “A good bank should seek a balance of risk and return,”
Ma said. “We think that the bank will be unable to build its
ability for risk pricing if it always focuses on enterprises
with low risk and runs low-risk businesses.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  