-- 
China Must Avoid Lending to ‘Troubled’ Euro-Area Nations, Yu Yongding Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-14T01:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/china-must-avoid-loans-to-troubled-nations-yongding.html
China  shouldn’t buy bonds issued by
individual euro-area countries because their leaders and the
 European Central Bank  are in disarray, said Yu Yongding, a
former adviser to China’s central bank.  “China has to wait until it can see a clearer road map by
euro countries for solving sovereign-debt problems,” Yu, who is
based in Beijing, said in e-mailed comments today. The nation is
not a lender of last resort for “troubled countries,” he
added.  Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega said yesterday
that officials from Russia, India, China and  South Africa  will
discuss next week ways to help  Europe  overcome its debt crisis.
Italy is struggling to avoid a collapse in investor confidence
and German Chancellor Angela Merkel has warned that an
“uncontrolled insolvency of  Greece ” would roil markets.  Italian officials held talks in the past few weeks with
Chinese counterparts about potential investments in the country,
an Italian government official said Sept. 12, adding that bonds
weren’t the focus.  Leaders of euro-area countries and the European Central
Bank are “in disarray” and the ECB’s own purchases of euro
members’ sovereign bonds are controversial, Yu said.  China can consider buying bonds of the European Financial
Stability Facility, a temporary bailout fund, or European common
bonds if they become available, said Yu, who’s a researcher at
an institute under the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
Common bonds, which have been ruled out by Merkel, would enable
high-deficit countries to access financial markets at lower
rates than they currently pay.  `Helping Hand'  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in June that China can offer “a
helping hand” to Europe by buying a limited volume of sovereign
bonds. The Asian nation pledged that month to buy Hungarian
 government bonds  and agreed to extend a 1 billion euro ($1.37
billion) loan for development projects in the country that
needed an International Monetary Fund-led bailout in 2008.  Italy joined Spain, Greece, Portugal and investment bank
Morgan Stanley among distressed borrowers that turned to China,
holder of the world’s largest foreign-exchange reserves, after
the 2007 collapse in U.S. mortgage securities set off a crisis
that widened to engulf euro-region sovereign debtors.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  