-- 
Chipotle Opens Asian Eatery in Challenge to Panda Express

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-09-15T20:10:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/chipotle-s-asian-themed-restaurant-opens-tomorrow-in-washington.html
Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  opens
its first Asian-themed restaurant today in  Washington  as the
company moves to expand beyond burritos.  ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen will open to the public
in the city’s DuPont Circle, Chris Arnold, a Chipotle spokesman,
said in an interview yesterday. ShopHouse customers will move
along a line and customize their food in a format similar to a
Chipotle store, he said.  It will take a “substantial amount of time” for ShopHouse
to rival Chipotle, said Bart Glenn, an analyst at D.A. Davidson
& Co. in  Lake Oswego ,  Oregon . “There’s never a sure thing with
a restaurant concept, but I wouldn’t bet against them.” Glenn
advises buying the shares.  Instead of beans and tortillas, diners will choose between
rice and noodles topped with ingredients such as chicken satay,
tofu, pork meatballs, Chinese broccoli and eggplant, Arnold
said. The bowls will sell for $6.50 to $7.50, compared with $7
to $8 for a Chipotle burrito. The chain also will have
traditional banh mi Vietnamese sandwiches with green papaya slaw
and chopped peanuts.  Chipotle’s new Asian concept will be taking on the likes of
Panda Express and Pei Wei Asian Diner, which last year accounted
for the biggest share of U.S. dollars spent at limited-service
Asian chains.  Panda Restaurant Group Inc. , which operates about
1,400 Panda Express locations in the U.S. and  Puerto Rico , had
$1.4 billion in sales last year, according to Chicago-based
researcher Technomic Inc. Pei Wei, with about 173 U.S. stores,
is owned by P.F. Chang’s China Bistro Inc.  Menu Fiddling  Co-Chief Executive Officer Steve Ells, a classically
trained chef, opened the first Chipotle in 1993. He has been
cooking and fiddling with the ShopHouse menu for about a year,
Arnold said. At the chain, diners can top off noodle bowls with
several different curry sauces, a tamarind vinaigrette or Asian
pickles.  The first ShopHouse will have a rustic appearance, with
earth tones and a few splashes of bright colors mimicking
Southeast Asian spices, Arnold said. The decor -- exposed-bulb
lights and teak-like seating -- is “very minimal” he said. The
company also imported a Coca-Cola Co. machine from  Thailand  for
the store.  “We always design restaurants in a way that says something
about the food,” Arnold said. The shop was inspired by stores
in Thailand, Malaysia and  Vietnam  where families live upstairs
and run their restaurants or markets on the ground level,
Chipotle said earlier this year.  Asian Dining  Sales at limited-service Asian restaurants grew 5.9 percent
last year, faster than any other menu category, according to
Technomic. This year, sales at Asian dining spots are expected
to rise 5 percent, compared with 4 percent for all limited-
service restaurants.  Chipotle operates more than 1,100 U.S. stores. Revenue
climbed 22 percent to $571.6 million in the quarter ended June
30, the Denver-based company said in July, marking the fifth
straight quarter in which sales increased at least 20 percent.  Chipotle rose 24 cents to $316.15 at 4:07 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Last year, the shares more
than doubled and were the best performing in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Restaurant Index, topping  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ,  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  and Yum! Brands Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  