-- 
City Trader Turns Killer, Beach Boy’s Gershwin: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-09-14T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/city-trader-turns-killer-beach-boy-s-gershwin-soho-tapas-london-weekend.html
Beach Boy  Brian Wilson  is coming to
London to take George Gershwin surfin’.  “Summertime” and “It Ain’t Necessarily So” are given a
Californian-pop makeover by Wilson, who says that “Rhapsody in
Blue” is one of his favorite tunes. He is back at London’s Royal
Festival Hall, where in recent years he has run through all of
the Beach Boys’ “Pet Sounds” and “Smile” albums.  Southbank Centre, Belvedere Road, SE1 8XX, Sept. 16-18.
Information: +44-20-7960-4200,  http://www.brianwilson.com  or
 http://www.southbankcentre.co.uk/   Saturday  The brand-new Buicks in Lee Friedlander’s photographs look
pretty unappetizing.  The American photographer (now 77) was asked by Harper’s
Bazaar in 1963-4 to shoot the new Buick and Ford models. The
results were so unglamorous that they never ran. Fished out of
his archive and now on show, they’re yours for $6,000 each.  Far more alluring (and priced $9,500 each) are the black-
and-white Hasselblad prints taken in the last decade and a half
from inside his car. Like a road movie, they show America
through its roadside diners, highways, and tacky billboards. The
dashboard, windshield and steering wheel act as frame dividers,
making the images look almost abstract.  The show ends Oct. 1 at the Timothy Taylor Gallery, 15
Carlos Place,  London  W1K 2EX. Information:
 http://www.timothytaylorgallery.co.uk  or +44-20-7409-3344.  Murano, near the gallery, is the modern Italian restaurant
of  Angela Hartnett , the Good Food Guide’s chef of the year. The
set lunch is 30 pounds ($47.23), and might include dishes such
as roasted sea trout, aubergine parmigiana, tomato vinaigrette.
Information:  http://www.muranolondon.com/  or +44-20-7592-1222.  Saturday Night  A City trader named Johnny goes out to dinner, attacks a
young woman, and kills her dad.  Johnny is actually Don Giovanni, in an updated production
by the pop-up troupe  OperaUpClose . Shortened to 2 hours and 15
minutes, the Mozart opera has some live piano and electronic
sounds mixed in for even more of a contemporary touch.  As in the original, Johnny has more than one woman on the
go. In this version, he also has an uppity intern. Uneven though
the production may be, it makes for an unusual night out.  “ Don Giovanni ” ends Saturday at the Soho Theatre, 21 Dean
Street, W1D 3NE. Information: +44-20-7478-0100 or
 http://www.sohotheatre.com .  Soho is home to so many good restaurants, it can be hard to
choose. If you want to eat before “Don Giovanni,” Barrafina is
a fine pick. Long lines form at this fashionable tapas bar, yet
you can grab seats if you arrive just after it opens at 5 p.m.
Information:  http://www.barrafina.co.uk/  or +44-20-7813-8016.  Rock fans get a rare chance on Saturday to hear electronic
pioneer  Gary Numan . The man known for hits such as “Cars” has
just released a new album, “Dead Son Rising.”  O2 Shepherd’s Bush Empire, Shepherd’s Bush Green, W12 8TT,
Sept. 11. Information:  http://www.o2shepherdsbushempire.co.uk   Sunday  Those passing the Victoria & Albert museum will stumble
across a new three-story structure in front of the main door.
The latticed circle, made of red oak and dubbed “Timber Wave,”
is by Amanda Levete, the architect designing the V&A’s new
extension.  It’s an eye-catching display that’s part of the London
Design Festival, now in its ninth year and involving some 200
organizations.  Other architects with projects around town are David Chipperfield, who has a glass structure outside the Royal
Festival Hall, and John Pawson, whose optical devices in  St.
Paul’s Cathedral  reflect the interior from unusual angles.  The festival ends Sept. 25. Information:
 http://www.londondesignfestival.com .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts & leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 