-- 
CMC of Kenya Plans to Recoup as Much as 2 Billion Shillings

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-09-14T15:47:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/cmc-of-kenya-plans-to-recoup-as-much-as-2-billion-shillings-1-.html
CMC Holdings Ltd. (CMCH) ,  Kenya ’s biggest
publicly traded auto dealer, said it may have been overcharged
as much as 2 billion shillings ($21 million) over the past five
years by a freight-forwarding company run by former chairman
Peter Muthoka.  Andy Forwarders Services Ltd. , the largest supplier of
services to CMC, overcharged the company in some instances by as
much as 100 times the market rate, CMC said in a statement e-
mailed by the  Nairobi Stock Exchange  today.  “Management is working very hard to get this money back
into the company,” CMC Chief Executive Officer Bill Lay told
reporters in Nairobi. Muthoka, CEO of Andy Forwarders, said in
an e-mailed statement the allegations are “utterly inaccurate
and not based on fact.”  CMC in May reported a 9.6 percent decline in first-half
revenue to 6.19 billion shillings that reduced net income by 0.7
percent. A month later, the company hired Lay, the former CEO of
General Motors East Africa Ltd., to run the company and said it
would spend as much as 1 billion shillings on a turnaround
strategy.  Muthoka, who was replaced by Joel Kibe as chairman of CMC
on Sept. 9, said he was consulting his lawyers and may take
legal action over Lay’s statements.  Andy Forwarders has had a contract with CMC for the past 17
years, Muthoka said. Rates billed by the company “are
negotiated, agreed and signed by the CMC management in a most
competitive manner,” he said.  Lay also announced today that CMC plans to cut costs by at
least 10 percent in the next financial year that begins on Oct.
1, while growing its market share to 20 percent in the next
fiscal year from 13 percent now, Lay said at a presentation
today.  “Our bottom-line results have been disappointing and
unacceptable,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 