-- 
Cohen, SAC Capital Win Bid to Be Dropped From $8 Billion Fairfax Lawsuit

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-09-14T18:42:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/cohen-sac-capital-win-bid-to-be-dropped-from-fairfax-suit-over-share-drop.html
Billionaire  Steven A. Cohen  and his
SAC Capital Advisors LP won their bid to be dropped from an
$8 billion lawsuit accusing them and other hedge funds of
spreading negative information to drive down  Fairfax Financial
Holdings Ltd. (FFH) ’s stock price.  New Jersey  Superior Court Judge Stephan C. Hansbury in
Morristown on Sept. 12 granted Cohen and  Stamford , Connecticut-
based SAC Capital’s request that he rule in their favor without
the need of a trial.  “There is no direct evidence of any sort of conspiracy
involving SAC to take down Fairfax,” Hansbury wrote.  Fairfax, a Toronto-based insurer, sued the hedge funds in
2006, alleging they acted to harm the company because they were
betting its stock price would decline. The  hedge funds  named in
the suit, including  James Chanos ’s New York-based Kynikos
Associates LP and  Daniel Loeb ’s New York-based Third Point LLC,
have denied Fairfax’s accusations.  “Fairfax intends to appeal the ruling, which it believes
is incorrect,” Seth Faison, a spokesman for the insurer, said
in an e-mailed statement. “Otherwise, Fairfax remains confident
in its claims against the other defendants. Indeed, a central
basis for SAC’s motion was that it was very differently situated
from the other defendants and did not trade in the same manner
as the other defendants.”  ‘Entirely Baseless’  “After five years of litigation, the court’s ruling
affirms, as we have always maintained, that this vexatious
proceeding against us was entirely baseless and without
merit,’” Peter Nussbaum, SAC Capital’s general counsel, said in
an e-mailed statement.  The funds coaxed John Gwynn, a former insurance analyst at
Morgan Keegan & Co. in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , into giving them his
negative Fairfax reports before they were published, Michael J. Bowe, a lawyer for Fairfax, said at an Aug. 5 hearing on Cohen
and SAC Capital’s motion. They also disseminated false
information about the company to the media, the government and
ratings services, Bowe said.  “We simply didn’t do anything to injure Fairfax,” Martin B. Klotz, a lawyer for Cohen and SAC Capital, told Hansbury at
the August hearing. “We did nothing to participate in the
enterprise alleged here.”  Buying Stock  In December 2003 and January 2004, when Fairfax alleges SAC
Capital was “shorting” the stock in anticipation of Gwynn’s
first report, it was actually eliminating its short position and
buying the stock, Klotz said.  SAC Capital held a long Fairfax position for most of 2004
and no Fairfax position in 2005, when the funds are accused of
hiring an outside analyst, Spyro Contogouris, to spread false
Fairfax information, Klotz said.  Bowe argued that SAC Capital, which has $14 billion under
management, didn’t include certain trading in Fairfax in its
calculations.  In a short sale, an investor sells borrowed shares hoping
to replace them later at a lower cost, pocketing the difference.
Hansbury wrote that the other short positions Bowe mentioned
were offset by convertible bonds and the net position was
positive.  “The fact that at no time did SAC trade similarly to its
alleged enterprise members is baffling, and without explanation
by” Fairfax, the judge wrote.  Morgan Keegan, a unit of Birmingham, Alabama-based bank
company  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , fired Gwynn in 2008 for
disclosing research on Fairfax to selected clients before
publication. He has since died.  Bowe is a partner at Kasowitz Benson Torres & Friedman LLP
in  New York . Klotz is a partner at Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP
in New York. Willkie Farr’s clients include Bloomberg LP, the
parent of Bloomberg News.  The case is Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. v. SAC Capital
Management LLC, L-2032-06, Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris
County (Morristown).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn , New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 