-- 
Colonial First’s Halmarick Says Europe at Risk of Bank Crisis

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-09-14T01:41:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/colonial-first-s-halmarick-says-europe-at-risk-of-bank-crisis.html
Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based
head of investment markets research at Colonial First State
Global Asset Management, which oversees about $150 billion,
commented on Europe’s debt crisis in a Bloomberg TV interview
today with Susan Li.  On the potential for a banking crisis:  “The big issue is that if  Greece  does default in some way,
shape or form, banks that hold that debt are going to be under a
lot of pressure.  “If we do get a continuation of this sovereign-debt crisis,
the risk really is that we’re going to end up with a banking
crisis, or certainly a situation where interbank funding is
severely limited. Clearly, financial markets are going to be
worried about that.  “The leaders in  Europe  are pretty determined to avoid that
outcome.  “I’m pretty sure the politicians are aware of what the
stakes are here. Let’s hope we learnt the lessons from that
episode in late 2008, and that the politicians, the  European
Central Bank , and the political system in Europe can actually do
something to sort out this issue.”  On investment prospects:  “Clearly, confidence is taking a real hit at the moment
and markets are going to continue to struggle. Obviously, the
European issue is going to be a big weight.  “Investors will have to get used to a lower return on
assets, and portfolios that can handle lots of volatility, can
handle rolling concerns about the macroeconomic outlook.”  On  China :  “The data coming out of China remains pretty robust. If we
look at the Asian part of the world, that’s where most of the
world’s growth is going to be. That’s where investors should be
looking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 