-- 
Commodity ETP Investments Decline to $7.8 Billion, Barclays Capital Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-09-14T13:58:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/commodity-etp-investments-decline-to-7-8-billion-barclays-capital-says.html
Investors placed 29 percent less
cash in commodity exchange-traded products in the first seven
months of the year,  Barclays Capital  said in a report.  Commodity-based ETP inflows totaled about $7.8 billion,
down from from $11 billion a year earlier, Barclays Capital
analyst Roxanna Mohammadian-Molina said today in the e-mailed
report. Investors cut inflows into commodities even as economic
news pushed up gold prices by 15 percent in the year through
July and Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials gained
8.6 percent.  “This picture across the mainly retail investor-driven ETP
market contrasts with the rising official sector appetite for
gold, the healthy demand for physical gold and the increase in
net-long positions in the  futures markets ,” Mohammadian-Molina
wrote in the report. “Despite the sheer number of potentially
damaging risks affecting the economy, commodity-linked ETPs have
seen weak inflows.”  Gold futures in New York rose to a record $1,923.70 an
ounce on Sept. 6 as investors sought to protect their wealth
from slowing economies in the European Union and the U.S.  Inflows into precious metal ETPs shrunk by two-thirds in
the year through July, Barclays said. Base-metal ETPs had their
largest outflow of money on record in August while  agriculture-
based products saw a fifth consecutive monthly outflow,
according to the report. Commodities have still fared better
than most asset classes, Mohammadian-Molina said.  “We’ve had some months in which we’ve seen the big
outflows,” Mohammadian-Molina said by phone. “It’s important
to realize that  commodities markets  have held up much better
than some markets such as the equities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  