-- 
Container-Ship Glut Clips Peak Season Asia-Europe Rates, Maersk Chief Says

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-14T07:47:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/container-ship-glut-clips-peak-season-asia-europe-rates-maersk-chief-says.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the No. 1
container line, said it’s struggling to raise peak-season rates
on the Asia- Europe  shipping route, the world’s second-busiest,
as an influx of new vessels leads to a glut in capacity.  The Danish company’s Maersk Line unit imposed a “pretty ok
dividend” on most other routes, with the exception of Asia- North
America , the busiest global flow, where expansion has been “very
modest,” Chief Executive Officer Eivind Kolding said in London.  “Most of the new big ships actually go to northern Europe,
so this is where you have the bigger problem,” the CEO said in
an interview. “It’s difficult to make a decision to pull a lot
of capacity, especially if hypothetically one line should decide
to do it, then actually the rest of the market will benefit.”  Maersk has implemented rate increases on some Mediterranean
routes since the start of the peak season, which began on Aug.
15 and runs until Nov. 30, Kolding said, and trade in emerging
markets and some regional routes is showing “double digit”
growth. Still, the CEO said he’s concerned that “nervousness” in
financial markets could spill over into the wider economy.  “We have a much more mixed picture than in 2009, where we
saw a collapse basically across the board,” he said. “We’re
slightly concerned because we did see a good momentum of
recovery, not a fast, but a fairly fast, recovery.”  Holiday Stockpiles  Europe usually imports more goods in the third quarter as
shops stockpile for the Christmas and New Year holidays, a gain
that may be curbed as retailers anticipate that concern about
economies and jobs will hurt  consumer spending .  For the moment, fleet utilization remains at more than 90
percent on Asia-Europe routes, matching the global average,
Kolding said, giving shipping lines little incentive to slash
capacity, especially with new vessels arriving later this year.  While growth in container volumes has slowed for four
consecutive quarters, declines are nowhere near the 22 percent
contractions seen in the first half of 2009. Only a drop of a
similar magnitude will force all container lines to conclude
that pulling capacity is the right strategy, he said.  The industry may lose $2.5 billion to $3 billion this year,
according to  Philip Damas , director of liner shipping and supply
chains at Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. in  London . Owners and
operators lost $20 billion in 2009, when the global container
trade contracted for the first time ever, Drewry says.  “People are definitely more concerned today than they were,
say, around the end of June,” Kolding said. “We definitely hear
some concerns from our retail customers as well. It’s Europe,
North America and  Japan  that are negative. The rest of the world
is doing very much more nicely.”  Kolding spoke Sept. 12 after Maersk said it will deploy 70
ships on the first guaranteed daily sailings between Europe and
 Asia  in a bid to win market share as demand stutters. The
Copenhagen-based company will also offer fixed cut-off times and
a discount of at least $100 for delayed containers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  