-- 
Credit Suisse Sees YPF Outperforming on Potential in Guyana, Higher Crude

-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-09-14T11:57:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/credit-suisse-sees-ypf-outperforming-on-potential-in-guyana-higher-crude.html
YPF SA (YPFD) , Argentina’s largest oil
company, is likely to benefit from rising domestic crude prices
and from the potential discovery of deep-water oil in the
Caribbean, Credit Suisse AG said.  The bank initiated coverage of Buenos Aires-based YPF’s
American depositary receipts this week with an “outperform”
rating and a 12-month price estimate of $50, Emerson Leite and
Vinicius Canheu, analysts at Credit Suisse in Sao Paulo, wrote
in a Sept. 12 note to clients. YPF rose 2.5 percent to $38.09
yesterday on the New York Composite Exchange.  YPF, which is 57.43 percent owned by Spain’s Repsol  YPF SA (YPF) ,
produces about 40 percent of Argentina’s oil and is the
country’s biggest fuel retailer. Argentine  oil prices  lag behind
international levels as the government caps exports at about $42
a barrel, less than half the $89.79 a barrel in international
markets. Crude is sold on the domestic market at about $55.  “YPF is currently in a unique position of facing an upside
risk to its realized fuel prices at a time when wider commodity
prices have remained persistently high amidst volatile
markets,” Leite and Canheu said. Argentine oil prices need to
increase toward international levels, they said.  YPF also has the “possibility of a significant event if
the Jaguar well in Guyana proves successful this October,” the
analysts said. YPF holds a 30 percent stake in Jaguar, offshore
Guyana. Jaguar is near French Guiana’s offshore Zaedyus well,
where  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  announced Sept. 9 the first oil discovery
in the region, opening a new oil frontier in Latin America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Buenos Aires  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  