-- 
Credit Agricole Debt Ratings Cut by Moody’s Along With Societe Generale’s

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-09-14T22:49:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/credit-agricole-ratings-lowered-one-level-to-aa2-by-moody-s-on-greek-debt.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and Societe
Generale SA, France’s second- and third-largest banks, had their
long-term credit ratings cut one level by Moody’s Investors
Service, which now plans to examine the impact of tighter
financing markets on French lenders.  Moody’s put the companies, along with  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, on
review for a possible downgrade on June 15, citing the risks
posed by their investments in Greece. Since then, concern over
 Europe ’s escalating sovereign debt crisis has crimped European
banks’ ability to raise funds in dollars.  “We extended the review to take into account the system
fragility in the banks’ financing markets,” said Nicholas Hill,
senior vice president at Moody’s in Paris, in an interview.  Credit Agricole  was lowered to Aa2, Moody’s third-highest
rating, and remains under review. Paris-based  Societe Generale (GLE) 
was reduced to Aa3, with a negative outlook, as Moody’s re-
evaluated its level of state support. BNP Paribas, the largest
French bank, had its Aa2 long-term rating kept on review for a
possible cut.  French lenders top the list of Greek creditors with $56.7
billion in exposure to private and public debt, according to a
June report by the Basel, Switzerland-based Bank for
International Settlements. Credit Agricole has an unprofitable
Greek subsidiary, Emporiki Bank of Greece SA, while Societe
Generale has a controlling stake in Greece’s Geniki Bank SA. BNP
Paribas doesn’t have a Greek consumer-banking unit.  Sovereign Crisis  Credit Agricole’s new ratings “are more consistent with
the bank’s sizeable exposures to the  Greek economy ,” Moody’s
said in the statement.  Credit Agricole rose 1.2 percent to 5.22 euros in Paris
trading, after initially dropping 5.9 percent. Societe Generale
declined 2.9 percent to 17.39 euros, while BNP Paribas slid 3.9
percent to 26.90 euros.  Before today, BNP Paribas had declined 41 percent in Paris
trading this year, Credit Agricole had fallen 46 percent and
Societe Generale had dropped 55 percent on escalating concern
that the European sovereign debt crisis is turning into a
banking crisis. The shares advanced yesterday after BNP Paribas
and Societe Generale said they can withstand a Greek sovereign
default and a reduction in lending from U.S. money-market funds.  Sufficient Profitability  “Moody’s has concluded that BNP Paribas has a sufficient
level of profitability and capital that it can absorb potential
losses it is likely to incur over time on its Greek  government
bonds ,” the rating company said. The long-term debt and
standalone bank financial strength ratings of BNP Paribas remain
on review because of concerns about “the structural challenges
to banks’ funding and liquidity profiles.”  The standalone bank financial strength ratings of Societe
Generale and Credit Agricole are also under review.  “It’s a pretty fast-moving situation and the rating
agencies will just keep revisiting it moment after moment,”
said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage 16 billion pounds
($25 billion) at Rathbone Brothers Plc in  London .  The  European Central Bank  said it will lend dollars to two
euro-area banks tomorrow, a sign they are finding it difficult
to borrow the U.S. currency in markets. The ECB allotted $575
million in a regular seven-day liquidity-providing operation at
a fixed rate of 1.1 percent. It’s the first time since Aug. 17
that a lender requested dollars from the ECB. An ECB spokesman
declined to comment on which banks borrowed the funds.  Loan Rollover  U.S. money-market funds “have stopped rolling over dollar
loans of European banks,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of market
analysis at Schneider Foreign Exchange in London. “I wouldn’t
be surprised if demand increased in the next weeks.”  U.S. money-market fund managers have cut their lending to
French banks at a pace that may force them to raise capital by
selling assets, according to a Sept. 9 report by William Prophet, a desk analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.  Societe Generale Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea 
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday that
the bank could resist a freeze in dollar financing from U.S.
money-market funds indefinitely.  “Even if it were to go to zero, there would be no
problem,” Oudea said. “We have plenty of buffers of liquidity
and we are adjusting to the reduction in the money-market fund
exposure.”  Takeover Target?  Societe Generale’s share plunge makes it a possible
takeover target for a foreign bank, Jean-Pierre Balligand, a
Socialist lawmaker who sits on the finance committee of  France ’s
National Assembly, said in an interview today.  Oudea dismissed speculation of a merger or takeover in the
interview yesterday, pointing out that most lenders’ shares have
tumbled and that a “big” banking merger wouldn’t help solve
the euro-region crisis.  BNP Paribas’s cost of borrowing in dollars has risen in the
past four weeks amid concern U.S. money-market funds are
shutting off lending to France’s banks because of their holdings
of Greek government debt. BNP Paribas yesterday said it is able
to finance its dollar needs at normal levels “directly and
through foreign-exchange swaps.”  The Paris-based bank said today it aims to boost its common
equity tier 1 capital ratio to 9 percent by the start of 2013,
under Basel III rules, as it scales back U.S. dollar corporate-
and investment-banking business.  Financing Market ‘Fragility’  Societe Generale has adequate capital to support its
exposure to  Greece , Portugal and Ireland, Moody’s said today.
The bank financial strength rating remains under review as
Moody’s examines the impact of “potentially persistent
fragility” in bank funding markets. Moody’s said that it
anticipates that rating would be cut by no more than one level.  The ratings actions are “relatively good news,” Bank of
France Governor  Christian Noyer  said on RTL radio in Paris. “It
was a limited downgrade. It was two banks out of three. All
Moody’s has done is put them on the same level as other rating
agencies and at the same level as other major European banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 