-- 
Commodities Drop, Paced by Oil and Copper, on Concern Demand May Weaken

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-09-14T16:38:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/crude-oil-copper-lead-declines-in-commodities-on-demand-outlook-concerns.html
Commodities declined, led by crude
oil and copper, on concerns that demand for raw materials may
ease as the euro-zone debt crisis remains unresolved and the
 Asian Development Bank  cut its growth forecast for the region.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will hold a
conference call with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy today amid increasing speculation that
Greece will default. The Manila-based ADB cut its 2011 growth
forecast for Asia excluding Japan to 7.5 percent from an April
estimate of 7.8 percent, according to the Asian Development
Outlook 2011 Update report released today.  “Sovereign-debt problems still wait for credible
solutions, leaving risk appetite on shaky ground,” Stefan Graber, a commodity analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich,
wrote in an e-mailed report today. “For now we take a cautious
stance on the cyclical metals space.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index tracking raw materials
fell 0.8 percent to 653 by 5:20 p.m. in  London . New York-traded
oil futures lost $1.54, or 1.7 percent, to $88.67 a barrel and
copper for December delivery fell 1.7 percent to $3.9035 a pound
on Comex.  Commodities gauged by the S&P GSCI Index pared this year’s
gain to 3.4 percent, weighed down by investors’ concerns about
the slowing U.S. and European economies. The ADB raised the
region’s inflation estimate to 5.8 percent this year, from a
previous forecast of 5.3 percent. China, the top user of copper,
energy and grains, raised interest rates for the third time this
year in July to combat rising consumer prices.  ETP Outflows  Cash put into commodity-based exchange-traded products
dropped 29 percent to $7.8 billion from January through July
compared with a year earlier, according to a Barclays Capital
report. Precious metal ETPs that traditionally accounted for the
majority of investor exposure to commodities have declined by
two-thirds this year, Barclays analyst Roxanna Mohammadian-
Molina said.  “This year has seen some of the largest ever monthly
outflows from precious metal ETPs, in January, in May and most
recently in August,” Mohammadian-Molina said. “So far this
year, despite the sheer number of potentially damaging risks
affecting the economy, commodity-linked ETPs have seen weak
inflows.”  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  called on developed nations to
cut their deficits and create jobs rather than relying on his
country to bail out the world economy.  The Paris-based  International Energy Agency  cut its
estimate for 2012 global oil consumption by 400,000 barrels a
day, and for 2011 by 200,000 a day yesterday. Worldwide demand
will rise by 1.2 percent to 89.3 million barrels a day this year
and by 1.6 percent to 90.7 million next year. The full
resumption of Libyan exports following the ouster of  Muammar Qaddafi  will be “long and difficult,” it said.  Downward Revision  Copper for delivery in three months has lost 10 percent
this year in London. The contract was at a record $10,190 a
metric ton on Feb. 15.  “The downward revision of the growth forecast of Asian
countries raised concern that a slowing economy will hurt
demand,” said Chaiwat Muenmee, an analyst at Bangkok-based
commodity broker DS Futures Co. “Besides, debt issues in  Europe 
remain unresolved.”  Gold for December delivery fell $10.20, or 0.6 percent, to
$1,819.90 an ounce after climbing 1 percent earlier in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  Singapore  at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 