-- 
Crude Oil Slides From Six-Week High on Concern Economic Recovery to Falter

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-09-14T12:50:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/crude-oil-drops-from-six-week-high-on-concern-economic-recovery-to-falter.html
Oil declined from a six-week high
on concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis and the faltering U.S.
economic recovery will temper fuel demand.  Futures fell as much as 1.9 percent after technical
indicators signaled gains of more than 3 percent in the past two
days may have been excessive. The  European Central Bank  said it
will lend two euro-area banks dollars tomorrow, a sign they are
having difficulties with borrowing. Retail sales in the U.S.
unexpectedly stagnated in August, data from the Commerce
Department showed. The Energy Department may say U.S. crude
stockpiles fell last week, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “The euro sovereign debt crisis continues to develop,”
said Thorbjorn Bak Jensen, an analyst at Global Risk Management
in Middelfart,  Denmark , who predicts Brent will average $107 in
the fourth quarter. “Whether speculators re-balance their
portfolios with oil as a safe haven, or the focus will be on
fear of lower economic activity, remains to be seen.”  Crude for October delivery declined as much as $1.68 to
$88.53 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $89.52 at 1:42 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday rose $2.02 to $90.21, the highest since Aug.
3. Futures have lost 2 percent so far this year.  Brent oil for October settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was up 47 cents at $112.36 after falling
as much as 79 cents to $111.10 a barrel. The European benchmark
contract was at a premium of $22.67 to U.S. futures, down from a
record close of $26.66 on Sept. 6.  Technical Indicators  The unchanged reading for retail sales followed a 0.3
percent gain for July that was smaller than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The median  forecast of 83 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was a 0.2 percent rise.  New York oil’s five-day stochastic oscillators climbed
above 80, signaling prices have increased too quickly, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures also stopped advancing
yesterday before the 50-day moving average, at $90.70 a barrel
today. A failure to breach technical resistance often means
prices will change direction.  The  International Energy Agency  yesterday cut global oil-
consumption forecasts for this year and 2012. The Paris-based
IEA reduced its estimate for oil demand this year by 200,000
barrels a day and by 400,000 in 2012. Worldwide consumption will
rise 1.2 percent to 89.3 million barrels a day this year and 1.6
percent to 90.7 million in 2012. A full resumption of exports
from  Libya  following the ouster of  Muammar Qaddafi  will be
“long and difficult,” said the energy-security adviser to
developed nations.  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will meet
European Union finance ministers in Wroclaw,  Poland , on Sept. 16
and Sept. 17 to discuss efforts to contain the region’s
sovereign-debt troubles, according to a euro-area official who
spoke on condition of anonymity. It will be the first time he
attends a session of Europe’s Economic and Financial Affairs
Council, known as Ecofin.  “The market will focus on developments in the  euro zone ,
ongoing weakness in economic data, and the restart of production
in Libya,” Tom Pawlicki, a Chicago-based analyst at MF Global
Holdings Ltd., said in a note.  Gasoline inventories rose 2.76 million barrels in the week
ended Sept. 9, the industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute 
said yesterday. A median decline of 500,000 barrels was forecast
by 14 analysts in a Bloomberg News poll before an Energy
Department report today.  Crude stockpiles fell 5.05 million barrels, the API said.
The Energy Department report was forecast to show supplies
dropped 3 million barrels after Tropical Storm Lee shut output
in the  Gulf of Mexico , based on the Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  