-- 
AMD, TCW, BNY Mellon, News Corp., HSBC in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-09-14T10:09:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/tcw-bny-mellon-news-corp-hsbc-clients-sac-capital-in-court-news.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam’s arrest for  insider trading  in October 2009 made a
former  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  employee afraid the U.S.
suspected him of passing tips to the fund, he said.  “I was pretty scared, pretty paranoid,” testified Mark
Anthony Longoria, a former AMD manager. “I thought I was the
individual giving out information that they were referring to.”  Longoria, who pleaded guilty in June and is cooperating
with the U.S., is testifying at the insider-trading trial of
James Fleishman, a Primary Global Research LLC executive. The
 Mountain View , California-based firm, also known as PGR, matches
employees of public companies with fund managers for a fee.  Fleishman, of Santa Clara, California, is on trial in
federal court in Manhattan, charged with two counts of
conspiracy for his role in what prosecutors say was a scheme in
which technology-company employees working as consultants for
Primary Global passed secret tips to hedge fund managers.
Fleishman, who has pleaded not guilty, faces as long as 25 years
in prison if convicted.  Longoria testified yesterday that he gave confidential
information about AMD to Fleishman and fund managers “two or
three times” while moonlighting as a PGR consultant from 2006
until 2010. Longoria said he couldn’t remember when he
specifically passed this information nor say whether he gave
Fleishman specific information on revenue.  Longoria said that after he read about the arrest of
Rajaratnam and five others on Oct. 16, 2009, he telephoned
Fleishman to find out if PRG did business with Galleon.
Rajaratnam was charged with running a $20 million insider-
trading scheme.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation wiretapped the call,
which was played yesterday for the jury.  Longoria was one of four people arrested in December 2010
by federal prosecutors in  New York  in overlapping insider-
trading probes involving Galleon and other funds by Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office.  He pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit securities and
 wire fraud ,  securities fraud , wire fraud and making false
statements to prosecutors and FBI agents. He said he faces as
long as 50 years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Fleishman, 11-CR-32, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  TCW Says Gundlach Prepared to ‘Eliminate’ Former Employer  Ex-TCW Group Inc. chief investment officer  Jeffrey Gundlach 
engineered a scheme to use his former employer’s trade secrets
to start his own firm in 2009, TCW’s lawyers told a  Los Angeles 
jury in closing arguments.  The California state court jury must try to decide whether
Gundlach secretly plotted to set up DoubleLine Capital LP while
still at TCW or whether the company breached its contract with
him, as Gundlach alleges, and fired him to avoid having to pay
him hundreds of millions of dollars in fees on the distressed-
asset funds he set up in 2007 and 2008.  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
sued Gundlach, 51, in January 2010, after more than half of its
fixed-income professionals joined DoubleLine. TCW claims it
suffered $344 million in damages from Gundlach’s alleged
interference with clients’ contracts and $222 million from a
claimed breach of fiduciary duty.  “They secretly stole, they secretly set up a Delaware
company,” TCW lawyer John Quinn told the jury yesterday. “They
were preparing to eliminate TCW as a competitor.”  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and was named
Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  The jury heard more than six weeks of testimony as the two
sides provided conflicting views of Gundlach’s falling out with
TCW Chief Executive Officer Marc Stern in 2009, which ended with
Stern’s buying Metropolitan West Asset Management LLC to run
TCW’s fixed-income group and firing Gundlach in December 2009.  Gundlach has denied that DoubleLine used any of TCW’s
proprietary software systems and data.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  BNY Mellon Sued Over Lehman Losses by Detroit Pension Funds  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  was accused in a lawsuit by
Detroit pension funds of mishandling their money invested in
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   The pension funds allege in their complaint that BNY Mellon
encouraged them to join its securities lending program, under
which the bank would lend securities owned by the funds to
creditworthy borrowers. The funds viewed the program as “akin
to a conservative money market account,” according to the
complaint filed Sept. 12 in federal court in New York.  The bank invested in Lehman notes in 2006 on behalf of the
pension funds and continued to maintain the investments as
uncertainty surrounding Lehman grew, the funds said.  BNY Mellon, based in New York, breached its fiduciary duty
to the pension funds for city employees, including police
officers and firefighters, they said in their complaint. The
funds seek to represent a group of investors that together lost
more than $1 billion in the notes.  Kevin Heine, a BNY Mellon spokesman, had no immediate
comment yesterday.  The case is General Retirement System of the City of
Detroit v. BNY Mellon N.A., 11-06345, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  News Corp. (NWS)  Unit Sued by Mother of 7/7 London Terror Victim  News Corp.’s U.K. unit was sued by the mother of a victim
of the July 7, 2005, terrorist attacks claiming that reporters
hacked into voice mail to get stories regarding her son.  The complaint was added yesterday to a group of test cases
that will determine the level of appropriate damages in phone
hacking lawsuits. The latest case, filed by Sheila Henry, is the
first lodged by a victim of a crime,  Hugh Tomlinson , a lawyer
for some phone-hacking plaintiffs, said at a hearing.  Revelations that the voice mail of murdered schoolgirl
Milly Dowler’s phone was hacked led  News Corp. (NWSA)  to close the 168-
year-old News of the World tabloid in July. The paper has been
sued by dozens of celebrities and politicians, including actor
Jude Law and former Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott, who
claim the paper accessed their voice mails for stories.  “Milly Dowler’s family has not issued proceedings yet, but
another victim of crime started proceedings yesterday,”
Tomlinson told Judge Geoffrey Vos yesterday.  News Corp.’s U.K. unit “continues to cooperate fully with
the Metropolitan Police Service in its investigations,” the
company said in a statement. “We are eager to assist it in any
way possible to ensure that those responsible for criminal acts
are brought to justice.”  The case is Sheila Henry v. News Group Newspapers & Glenn
Michael Mulcaire, case no. 11-3086, High Court of Justice,
Chancery Division (London).  For more, click here.  FDA Insider-Trading Defendant Charged With Child Pornography  Andrew Liang, accused of joining an insider-trading scheme
with his father, a U.S. Food and Drug Administration chemist,
was charged with possessing child pornography found in the
course of the fraud investigation.  Liang, and his father, Cheng Yi Liang, who worked for the
FDA’s  Center for Drug Evaluation and Research , allegedly reaped
at least $3 million from trading on nonpublic information
related to drug-approval applications.  Liang was charged yesterday in federal court in Maryland
with one count of possessing child pornography. The government
asked that Liang forfeit a MacBook laptop computer seized at his
Gaithersburg, Maryland home during raids by the Federal Bureau
of Investigation in March and April.  Liang’s lawyer, Timothy Sullivan, didn’t immediately return
telephone messages seeking comment on the new charge.  If convicted, Liang faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in
prison and a $250,000 fine. Liang would also be required to
register as a sex offender. Liang is free pending a court date,
which has yet to be scheduled, said Marcia Murphy, a spokeswoman
for U.S. Attorney Rod Rosenstein.  The insider-trading case has been postponed because “the
parties are near resolution of this matter,” David Salem,
assistant U.S. attorney, said in an Aug. 29 filing.  The new case is U.S. v. Andrew Liang, 11-cr-00501. The
insider trading cases are U.S. v. Chen Yi Liang, 8:11-mj-01236-
WGC, and U.S. v. Andrew Liang, 8:11-mj-01237-WGC, U.S. District
Court, District of Maryland (Greenbelt).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Foreclosure Deal Shouldn’t Waive All Claims, Official Says  Banks shouldn’t be protected from liability for mortgage
securitization as part of a national foreclosure settlement,
said Minnesota’s attorney general, joining other states voicing
concern over the issue.  Any settlement shouldn’t release the banks from liability
for the bundling of mortgages into securities or for the use of
a mortgage registry known as MERS, Attorney General Lori Swanson
said in a Sept. 9 letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  “The banks should not be released from liability for
conduct that has not been investigated and is not appropriately
remedied in any settlement,” Swanson wrote to her counterparts
in New York and Iowa.  State and federal officials are negotiating a settlement
with the five largest mortgage servicers in the U.S., including
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  All 50 states
announced an investigation into bank foreclosure practices last
year.  Government officials are seeking an agreement that provides
funding for writedowns on mortgage loans for borrowers and sets
standards for how the banks service loans, interact with
borrowers and conduct foreclosures, according to terms proposed
in March.  Some attorneys general have criticized any agreement that
would provide the banks with releases for certain claims, such
as securitization, and protect the companies from state
investigations.  “We have received Attorney General Swanson’s letter and
agree that any agreement must not prevent attorneys general
investigating the mortgage crisis from following the facts
wherever they lead,” Danny Kanner, a spokesman for New York
Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, said in an e-mail.  State officials negotiating the settlement with the banks
don’t intend to release securitization claims, Geoff Greenwood,
a spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, said in an
interview. Miller, a Democrat, is leading talks for the states.
The liability releases are being negotiated, said Greenwood, who
declined to comment about whether claims related to the MERS
database would be released.  “We share a lot of common ground with Attorney General
Swanson, and we appreciate her input,” Greenwood said.  For more, click here.  U.K. Probe of HSBC Clients Said to Widen Over Swiss Tax Dodge  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  clients with accounts at its  Swiss
private bank  in Geneva are the target of a widening
investigation by U.K. authorities into alleged  tax evasion ,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Revenue and Customs, known as HMRC, will write to an
additional 4,500 clients of the London-based bank, giving them
the choice of making a full disclosure or face investigation,
said the people, who declined to be named because the matter is
confidential. About 800 customers have already been sent so-
called  Code of Practice 9  letters informing them that their tax
affairs over the past 20 years will be probed, they said.  The U.K. tax authority is allocating more staff to the
project as it widens the probe of Swiss bank account holders at
Europe’s biggest lender, the people said. HMRC received the data
from its French counterparts after Herve Falciani, a former
software technician at HSBC in Geneva, stole details on at least
24,000 accounts.  Patrick O’Brien, a spokesman for HMRC in London, and a
spokesman for HSBC in Geneva declined to comment.  First-half outflows from European clients were
“considerable,” partly because of the data theft, Alexandre
Zeller, chief executive officer of HSBC’s Swiss unit, said last
month, without providing details.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Former SAC Capital Portfolio Manager Settles With SEC  Donald Longueuil, a former junior portfolio manager at SAC
Capital Advisors LP, agreed to settle a civil suit filed by the
U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission .  Longueuil was sentenced to 30 months in prison in July
after pleading guilty to criminal charges of conspiracy and
securities fraud in a case that also included former SAC
portfolio manager Noah Freeman, Samir Barai, founder of Barai
Capital Management, and Jason Pflaum, an analyst who worked for
Barai.  All four men pleaded guilty in a U.S. investigation
targeting insider trading at hedge funds. The settlement, filed
in U.S. District Court in Manhattan yesterday, says that
Longueuil is cooperating with the SEC’s investigation.  Longueuil agreed to pay the SEC $353,000 in the settlement.
The agreement gives him credit for the larger amount, $1.25
million, that he is required to forfeit to the government as
part of the criminal conviction.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Longoria,
11-CV-753, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Judge Invalidates Health-Care Act’s Insurance-Buying Mandate  The insurance-buying mandate in President Barack Obama’s
health-care reform legislation is unconstitutional, a federal
judge in Pennsylvania ruled.  U.S. District Judge Christopher C. Conner in Harrisburg
yesterday said Congress exceeded its powers under the federal
constitution when it included in the act Obama signed into law
last year a provision requiring almost all Americans to have
medical insurance starting in 2014.  “The federal government,” Conner said, “is one of
limited enumerated powers, and Congress’s efforts to remedy the
ailing health care and health insurance markets must fit
squarely within the boundaries of those powers.”  Three federal appeals courts have weighed in on the issue
since June 29. A Cincinnati panel backed the provision, 2-1,
while one in Atlanta voted it down by the same margin. The U.S.
appeals court in Richmond on Sept. 8 rejected two separate
challenges on jurisdictional grounds.  The Harrisburg ruling, if appealed, would be heard by the
U.S. Court of Appeals in Philadelphia, which hasn’t yet ruled on
the merits of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.  Tracy Schmaler, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, didn’t immediately reply to voice-mail and e-mail
requests for comment.  The case is Goudy-Bachman v. U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services, 10-cv-763, U.S. District Court, Middle District
of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  For more, click here.  Sabre Wins Dismissal of Antitrust Claims in US Airways Suit  Sabre Holdings Corp., which was sued by  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC)  over its system for distributing data to travel agents, won
dismissal of two of the antitrust claims against it.  In a one-page, handwritten ruling filed Sept. 12, U.S.
District Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum in Manhattan threw out
US Airways’ claims that Sabre conspired and monopolized what it
called the “Sabre travel agent market.”  Cedarbaum ordered US Airways to file an amended complaint
to provide the sources of information and bases for its
allegations in the two remaining counts.  US Airways’ antitrust suit against Sabre, the largest so-
called global distribution system based in the U.S., followed a
complaint filed by  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines in Texas state
court in January as the carriers seek more control over
dissemination and sale of their products.  In the remaining claims, US Airways said Sabre restrained
competition through a series of agreements with airlines and
travel agents and that it conspired with other operators of
global distribution systems, which provide travel agents with
fare and schedule information, to keep out competitors.  US Airways spokesman Todd Lehmacher declined to comment on
the ruling except to say the case is going forward. In papers it
filed in August seeking dismissal of the complaint, Sabre, based
in Southlake, Texas, said the suit is “US Airways’ attempt to
renegotiate the three-year contract” with the airline.  The case is U.S. Airways Inc. v. Sabre Holdings Corp., 11-
cv-02725, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 