-- 
Thorning-Schmidt Wins Danish Election After Vowing to Spend

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-16T06:37:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/danes-set-to-elect-welfare-government-as-budget-curbs-rejected.html
Helle Thorning-Schmidt will become
 Denmark ’s first female prime minister after promising voters
more welfare spending in exchange for higher taxes.  Thorning-Schmidt’s Social Democrat-led bloc will have 92
lawmakers in the country’s 179-seat parliament, broadcaster DR
said, after all votes were counted. Outgoing Prime Minister Lars Loekke Rasmussen’s group will have 87 seats. The result was
narrower than polls had indicated, with the average of more than
100 Gallup Denmark polls in newspaper Berlingske giving
Thorning-Schmidt a nine seat lead.  “Today is the day things change in Denmark,” Thorning-
Schmidt, 44, said at a party rally in Copenhagen. “This evening
we’ve shown that the Social Democrats are a big and driving
force in Denmark. We’ve written history today.”  The  Social Democrats  ended a decade of Liberal-Conservative
rule after promising to raise taxes for banks and the wealthy to
help pay for better schools and hospitals. The new government
has pledged to spend about 21 billion kroner ($3.9 billion) more
a year on welfare than Rasmussen’s bloc had promised. The
policies will put pressure on AAA rated Denmark’s public
finances and threaten the country’s haven status, Rasmussen, 47,
has warned.  Addressing Deficits  His bloc’s election defeat means the government must now
submit its request to Queen Margrethe II to seek formal
resignation, Rasmussen said. “Danish voters have spoken,” he
said. Rasmussen’s party will remain the biggest in parliament
with 47 seats.  Thorning-Schmidt has assured voters her economic plans
won’t hurt Denmark’s fiscal stability, and argues that jump-
starting household demand is the best way to safeguard growth
and welfare.  “Of course we have to address the deficit if we win,” she
said earlier this week.  The yield difference between Denmark’s 10-year bond and
German bunds of a similar maturity narrowed to 21 basis point
points today from 22 yesterday. The spread between Danish and
German 10-year debt is smaller than the yield difference for any
euro member.  The new government, which will rule with the backing of the
Socialist  People’s Party , the Social Liberals and the Red Green
Alliance, may struggle to get some of its policies through
parliament. The Social Liberals, which won 17 seats, have said
they won’t back Thorning-Schmidt’s plan to maintain the
 retirement age  or keep in place the previous government’s strict
immigration rules.  Coalition Split  Still, the Social Liberals will be invited to join the new
government, Morten Boedskov, Social Democrat finance spokesman,
said in an interview in Copenhagen.  The Social Democrats lost one seat versus the 2007
election, giving the party 44 lawmakers, while the Socialist
People’s Party sank seven seats to 16. The Social Liberals and
the Red Green Alliance both gained eight seats versus the last
election.  The next government is unlikely to get enough support in
parliament to push through a planned 6 billion-krone bank tax,
according to  Peter Straarup , chief executive officer at Danske
Bank A/S, the country’s biggest lender.  “I’m not overly concerned,” Straarup said in  Stockholm 
yesterday. “They will have to rely on the Social Liberal Party,
which has a very healthy view on taxation, and there is no way
they will be able to do this.”  Economic Laggard  The anti-immigration Danish People’s Party, which backed
Rasmussen’s bloc, saw its support slip three seats, giving it 22
lawmakers in parliament.  “We’ll be a tough opposition party,” Danish People’s
Party leader Pia Kjaersgaard said in an interview broadcast by
DR.  Denmark is Scandinavia’s worst-performing economy, after a
burst housing bubble fueled a banking crisis and choked  consumer
spending . Gross domestic product will expand 1.25 percent this
year, the central bank said this month. Sweden’s economy will
surge 4.5 percent,  Norway ’s mainland output will grow 3 percent
while Iceland’s GDP will expand 2.8 percent, according to the
countries’ central banks.  Denmark’s  budget deficit  will reach 3.8 percent of GDP this
year, and widen to 4.6 percent in 2012, the  Finance Ministry 
said Aug. 24. The average shortfall in the euro area will be 4.3
percent in 2011 and improve to 3.5 percent in 2012, according to
the European Commission’s latest forecasts from May.  Credit Default Swaps  The new coalition will strive to bring the budget deficit
within the European Union’s 3 percent threshold of GDP, Boedskov
said.  The difference in yield between Denmark’s 10-year
government bond and German bunds of a similar maturity has
averaged 21 basis points since the end of April, a narrower
spread than that of any euro member. Still, credit default swaps
on Danish five-year bonds have risen more than contracts on
equivalent German debt. Danish swaps have surged 49 percent
since the beginning of August, compared with a 33 percent rise
for German contracts, according to CMA. Swedish CDS gained 35
percent in the period.  After announcing the election on Aug. 26, Rasmussen evoked
the specter of a deepening European fiscal crisis and warned
voters they face a “clear choice: uncontrolled debt or
sustainable welfare.” Thorning-Schmidt said the same day the
state needs to deploy more public funds, arguing that “without
growth we can’t pay down our debt, and without growth there’s no
money for welfare.”  “Under the opposition’s plan Denmark’s public sector will
grow and there are some unanswered questions about the full
financing of the measures,” said  Steen Bocian , an economist at
Danske Bank A/S, Denmark’s largest lender. “The government’s
plan is more complete from an economic point of view.”  Thorning-Schmidt, who lost the 2007 election to Rasmussen’s
predecessor, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, is the daughter-in-law of
former U.K. Labour Party Leader Neil Kinnock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  