-- 
Danny Meyer Flop Reopens as $5.5 Million Bet on Peru’s Cuisine

-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-09-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/danny-meyer-flop-reopens-as-la-mar-5-5-million-gamble-on-peru-s-cebiche.html
Workmen toil with buzz saws
downstairs at 11 Madison Avenue, while chefs fine-tune sauces in
the kitchen and haggle over plate rims with suppliers.  Peruvian restaurateur Gaston Acurio passes through with the
easy-going assurance he’s developed while creating seven
restaurant franchises that he’s exported to 11 countries.  Acurio, 43, is betting $5.5 million on a space where Danny Meyer’s Tabla struggled for profitability. It’s a gamble in part
because the 180-seat La Mar Cebicheria Peruana, scheduled to
open Sept. 20, will feature a cuisine that has yet to take hold
in  New York . The first U.S. La Mar had its debut on  San
Francisco ’s Embarcadero three years ago.  “Cebiche is our flagship dish and this is how we want to
bring Peruvian food to New York,” Acurio said during a visit to
the site.  Peruvian cebiche (also spelled ceviche and seviche) is
typically a cold dish of raw fish, hot aji limo peppers, lime
juice, red onions and a touch of cilantro. La Mar’s most
expensive main dish will be a cooked cebiche made with grilled
lobster, accompanied by an Andean potato side.  “The potatoes are a recipe from Victoriano’s family,”
Acurio says, referring to La Mar chef Victoriano Lopez, who’s a
head shorter than his boss. Lopez, 40, dons chef’s whites with
red-and-white Peruvian flags on the collars, while Acurio, his
dark wavy hair worn longer, wears an untucked white dress shirt
over jeans and black boots.  Pushcart Food  Among early jobs, Lopez sold street food from a pushcart
before landing in the original Astrid & Gaston, Acurio’s first
high-end room, 17 years ago. He’s worked in each of Acurio’s
restaurants and overseen every opening abroad, he said.  “I’m Gaston’s right-hand man,” Lopez said. “This time
I’m going to stick around. They’ve moved me here to run
things.”  Spanish chef Ferran Adria, who closed El Bulli in July to
found a culinary foundation, is in  Peru  this month to spend
several weeks working on a documentary that will look at the
role pride in Peruvian cuisine has played in the country’s
rebirth, Acurio said.  Adria is also taking part in the third-annual  Mistura , an
exposition that runs through Sept. 18 in the Peruvian capital
that Acurio dreamed up to spotlight a national cuisine that
fuses foods from the country’s Andean, Amazon and coastal
regions with techniques brought by emigrants from  Africa ,  China ,
 Europe  and  Japan . (Sushi master Nobu Matsuhisa spent formative
years in a Lima restaurant during his 20s.)  Food School  Besides the restaurants and Mistura, Acurio has written
many books, hosts television shows and established Fundacion
Pachacutec, a culinary institute that runs a school for
underprivileged students on a dusty hilltop slum outside  Lima .  He’s bringing La Mar to the states as he shrinks the scope
of Astrid & Gaston to just one flagship.  Appetizers at La Mar New York will run $9 to $18, entrees
$24 to $32, Acurio said. Drinks will be made with a rotating
supply of pisco, Peru’s clear, un-oaked grape brandy, in a bid
to promote smaller producers.  Peruvian food relies on a handful of basic ingredients
including four hot peppers -- aji panca, aji amarillo, aji limo,
and rocoto -- and an Andean black mint called huacatay. Foods
served at La Mar New York will be organic and harvested locally,
Acurio said, adding that the local flounder known as fluke
adapts especially well to cebiche.  “Thirty years ago people were reluctant to eat sushi and
today even babies eat wasabi,” Acurio said. “We want Peruvian
cuisine to follow the same path.”  La Mar Cebicheria Peruana, 11 Madison Ave., New York.
Information:  http://bit.ly/Sq2l9 .  To contact the writer on the story:
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 