-- 
Darfur’s Main Rebels Reject Appointment of Sudan Vice-President

-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 
2011-09-14T14:27:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/darfur-s-main-rebels-reject-appointment-of-sudan-vice-president.html
The main rebel group in  Sudan ’s
western region of Darfur rejected President Umar al-Bashir’s
appointment of a vice president from the region, where
insurgents have battled government forces for eight years.  Al-Bashir yesterday named Adam Youssef as his second vice-
president, the state-run Suna news agency reported from
Khartoum, the capital. Youssef, an ethnic Arab, switched
allegiance from the opposition Popular Congress Party to the
ruling  National Congress Party , it said.  “He’s an Arab Islamist, part of the governing party and
the Arabization of darfur,” el-Taher el-Feki, chairman of the
rebel Justice and Equality Movement’s legislative council, said
today by phone from  London . “His appointment doesn’t mean
anything to the marginalized people in Darfur.”  Insurgents accuse the government of neglecting the region
and favoring Darfur’s largely nomadic Arabs over African ethnic
groups. The conflict has led to the deaths of as many as 300,000
people, mainly due to illness and starvation, and forced about
2.7 million to flee their homes, according to United Nations
estimates. The Sudanese government has put the death toll at
about 10,000.  “We are fighting for real democracy and real
representation for the people of Darfur, and not for a
diplomatic post,” el-Feki said.  JEM has boycotted the agreement between Sudanese government
and the Liberation and Justice Movement signed on July 14 in
Doha, Qatar.  Al-Bashir has been indicted by the  International Criminal
Court  for responsibility for genocide and war crimes in Darfur.
He denies the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Johannesburg at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  