-- 
Deadly Drug Contamination Inevitable:FDA

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-09-14T19:32:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/deadly-drug-contamination-inevitable-fda-says-in-seeking-power.html
Fatal drug contamination like a
2008 incident involving  Baxter International Inc. (BAX) ’s blood
thinner Heparin that sickened and killed hundreds is inevitable
unless the agency gets enhanced inspection and recall powers for
non-U.S. factories, a top regulator said.  Another crisis is “not a matter of if, it’s a matter of
when,” Deborah Autor, the  Food and Drug Administration ’s deputy
commissioner for global regulatory operations and policy, told a
U.S. Senate committee today.  The agency is asking Congress for power to compel
drugmakers to recall risky medicines and institute a track-and-
trace system that could follow treatments from manufacturer to
shelf. Forty percent of drugs Americans take are made outside
the U.S. and 80 percent of active ingredients in pharmaceuticals
come from beyond national borders, FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  told the panel on July 28.  Autor also held up at today’s hearing a counterfeit version
of New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s cholesterol-fighting drug
Lipitor, and said that $20 million worth of the copies were
dispensed to patients in 2003.  Senator Michael Enzi of  Wyoming , the senior Republican on
the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee,
called the agency’s ideas “politically dramatic” and an
“overreach.” Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat who chairs
the committee, has pledged a bipartisan bill that will help the
FDA secure the drugs that come into the U.S.  “Right now my concern is FDA over-regulating, not FDA
under-regulating,” Enzi said.  Mandatory Recall Power  The FDA has mandatory recall power for medical devices and
has only used its power three times, Enzi said. He also said a
track system, at $110,000 for an independent pharmacy, would be
too expensive to expect a small business to buy when most
counterfeits come from Internet purchases.  The China-made contaminated Heparin from Deerfield,
Illinois-based Baxter spotlighted how the FDA inspects foreign
plants less than those of domestic drug manufacturers. Without
resources to inspect every non-U.S. plant, the FDA has said
Congress should give the agency the ability to refuse products
at the border when a maker declines an inspection.  “Because counterfeiting is a global problem requiring a
global solution, Pfizer partners with regulatory,  law
enforcement  and customs agencies around the world to help ensure
patients have access to authentic, safe and effective
medicines,” said Raul Damas, a spokesman for Pfizer.  Protecting the security of the drug supply “is a top
priority,” said Karl Uhlendorf, vice president at the
 Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America , the
industry’s lobbying group in  Washington .  Laureen Cassidy, a Baxter spokeswoman, declined to comment
because she said she hadn’t heard Autor’s comments.  Inspection Rate  Hamburg in July appointed Autor to her newly created
position. The FDA also released a report outlining how the
agency will attempt to increase its ability to handle a global
pharmaceutical supply, including expanding its collaboration
with foreign counterparts.  The FDA inspected 424 non-U.S. drug establishments, or 11
percent, in fiscal 2009, the Government Accountability Office
 found  a year ago. The investigative arm of Congress estimated at
that rate it would take the FDA nine years to inspect each
foreign establishment once. The agency examines domestic firms
about once every 2 1/2 years.  Enzi said the FDA should be able to target plants for
inspections based on risk, regardless of location, to help level
the playing field. Harkin said he’s leaning toward the idea, and
asked whether drugmakers should pay a fee to fund inspections.  The 2009 numbers are an improvement over fiscal years 2007
and 2008 when the FDA inspected 333 and 324 foreign plants
respectively, according to the Government Accountability Office.  China  has the most establishments in the FDA’s inventory,
920 in fiscal 2011, according to the office, followed by  India 
with 502,  Canada  with 310 and  Germany  with 228.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 