-- 
Detroit Span Owner Keeps Canada Crossing With Koch Aid

-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 
2011-09-16T20:40:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/detroit-bridge-owner-gets-kochs-backing-to-keep-canada-crossing-his-alone.html
(Corrects to remove erroneous traffic data contained in
fifth paragraph of story published Sept. 14.)  Billionaire Manuel Moroun, who beat
out  Warren Buffett  to buy the  Ambassador Bridge  more than three
decades ago, is fighting a plan championed by Michigan Governor
 Rick Snyder  to build a public competitor to the busiest U.S.-
Canada border crossing.  Moroun, 84, a Detroit trucking-company owner known as
Matty, controls his city’s 81-year-old, traffic-choked main link
to Windsor, Ontario. He wants to build his own adjoining six-
lane span and has lobbied lawmakers and spent more than $1
million on television ads labeling the Republican governor’s
idea a boondoggle.  At stake in the fight, which has drawn in diplomats, the
Tea-Party-backing Koch brothers and residents of one of
Detroit’s poorest neighborhoods, is control of a crossing that
carries one-quarter of the truck commerce between the U.S. and
 Canada  and more than 7 million vehicles a year, according to the
 Public Border Operators Association.   “This is Canada’s No. 1 national infrastructure
priority,”  Roy Norton , the nation’s consul general in Detroit,
said in a phone interview.  Ford Motor Co. estimates that trucking delays at the toll
bridge cost the company $13.7 million in 2010, according to the
Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor , Michigan.  New Opening  Under Snyder’s plan, Michigan and Canada would hire a
contractor to build and run a Detroit River bridge two miles
south of the Ambassador. The contractor would determine
financing for the estimated $950 million cost of the so-called
New International Trade Crossing.  Canada has offered to foot as much as $550 million of
 Michigan ’s bill for connecting roads, money that might leverage
$2 billion in U.S. highway funds for projects around the state.
Norton said tolls would repay the sum.  The U.S. and Canadian governments also would build customs
plazas, costing about $400 million on each side, according to a
Michigan Department of Transportation report.  Today, the Senate Economic Development Committee will
resume hearings on the plan, which has tested Snyder’s sway in
the state capital dominated by his fellow Republicans.  “As of now, the votes are not there,” said Republican
Senator  Mike Kowall , who chairs the committee.  Hands Off  Snyder’s bill would authorize a joint Michigan-Canada
authority to hire a builder and issue revenue bonds on its
behalf to finance the bridge. Any bonds wouldn’t have the
state’s credit backing, nor would Michigan spend any money on
the span itself beyond paying the contractor.  “It’s very rare for these arrangements to go forward
without state assistance,” said Bryan Grote, co-founder of
Mercator Advisors LLC, a Philadelphia-based financial adviser on
public infrastructure projects.  The four-lane Ambassador was completed in 1929 by banker
Joseph Bower. At 7,490 feet, it was the world’s longest
suspension bridge at the time, according to the bridge’s
website. In 1979, Moroun bought the controlling interest in the
bridge company, outbidding Buffett, chairman of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc.  Matthew Moroun, 38, is Manuel’s son, family spokesman and
vice chairman of the  Detroit  International Bridge Co. He said a
public project would likely put it out of business. Traffic over
the bridge has dropped 40 percent since 2000, he said.  Its revenue was estimated at $81 million in 2004, according
to a state report. Matthew Moroun said that’s too high, though
he wouldn’t disclose numbers.  Deserted Lanes  A public bridge would cost the Ambassador close to half its
commercial traffic, according to a state Transportation
Department  analysis .  “We would have a hard time, if not an impossible time,
paying our bills,” Moroun said in an interview.  The family also stands to lose money from its duty-free gas
station on the Detroit side, which is exempt from 60 cents per
gallon in taxes but charges prices similar to those of taxed
retailers.  Moroun’s company plans to build a six-lane bridge next to
the Ambassador Bridge, which would be overhauled and kept open.
Canada opposes the idea because it would feed truck traffic on
Windsor’s congested streets.  Moroun’s arguments, however, resonate in the Legislature.  “Republicans and Democrats have a philosophical problem
with putting a private business out of business by building a
publicly owned bridge,” said Representative Paul Opsommer, 58,
a DeWitt Republican who is chairman of the House Transportation
Committee.  Enter the Kochs  A new public bridge is the key to increased commerce, said
Lieutenant Governor Brian Calley, who drafted the legislation
and is Snyder’s lead lobbyist for the project.  “Everyone wants a private bridge,” Calley said in a
telephone interview. “The question is, do they want a private
bridge for one politically active family with exclusive access
to a monopoly?”  The battle has spread as far as Toronto, where Moroun paid
for television ads. Fox TV commentator  Dick Morris  said in an
interview with WJR-AM radio in March that Moroun had hired him
to advise the campaign.  Americans for Prosperity , the free-
market advocacy group founded by billionaire industrialists
Charles and  David Koch , conducted a public relations campaign,
including mass mailings to voters.  “He has co-opted some of the Tea Party movement, which
sends shivers up Republicans’ backbones,” said Tom Shields,
spokesman for a  coalition  of business, labor and political
leaders supporting Snyder’s plan. “He’s done a pretty good job
of taking a stand that this is free enterprise versus big
government.”  Attuned to Dollars  Forbes in March estimated Manuel Moroun’s worth at $1.7
billion, making him the 275th richest individual in the U.S. His
family contributed  $565,000 to state candidates  for the 2010
election, according to campaign finance reports. That includes
15 senators and 30 House members.  “Those people respond to money,” said Rich Robinson,
director of Michigan Campaign Finance Network, which tracks
political spending. “It’s got to be the money-in-politics issue
in Michigan this year.”  Snyder’s new bridge is not just an issue in Lansing, it
would affect one of Detroit’s poorest neighborhoods, Delray, in
the city’s southwest corner. The bridge’s 160-acre plaza would
swallow up blocks, some nearly vacant from years of flight by
residents.  Help the People  Delray Mechanical Corp., which services industrial
equipment, has been in the area for 22 years, said Julie Ebsch,
the owner’s wife.  “People hear that you live or work in Delray and it’s
like, ‘Nobody goes there,’” said Ebsch, who was mowing the
business’ lawn. “It’s blighted because we have problems that
need addressing.”  Some lawmakers have demanded that the project pay for
improvements, hire residents for construction and limit
pollution from trucks.  “There should be some giveback to the community,” said
Representative Fred Durhal, a Detroit Democrat.  Snyder is pressing lawmakers to vote before year-end. Even
if Moroun blocks the bridge for a year or two it would be a
victory for him, said Wayne County Executive Robert Ficano, a
Democrat who supports Snyder.  “That’s two years of tolls,” Ficano said. “It might be
that simple of a business plan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  