-- 
Diabetes Fanning TB Hampers India’s Fight Against Both Diseases

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-09-14T23:12:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/diabetes-fanning-tb-hampers-india-s-fight-against-both-diseases.html
India has the world’s most diabetes
deaths and the disease is now fanning the spread of another
killer: tuberculosis.  The country’s more than 50 million diabetics are 2-3 times
more likely to catch TB because the metabolic condition weakens
the immune system, according to the  World Health Organization .
TB has become more serious because of the spread of drug-evading
forms that have transformed a disease that could be treated with
$20 worth of medication into an unstoppable scourge.  “People working on TB are now coming to us and saying,
‘we’re never going to eradicate TB because the huge epidemic of
diabetes is driving TB with it,’” said  Ann Keeling , chief
executive officer of Brussels-based  International Diabetes
Federation .  India already has the most TB cases in the world -- 2
million new ones each year from a global total of 9 million and
diabetes contributes to 15 percent of the nation’s TB infections.  The burden of  diabetes  and other so-called non-communicable
diseases is one of the biggest development challenges of the
21st century, according to the  United Nations , which will
discuss the issue at a  meeting  of world leaders in  New York  next
week.  Diabetes killed about 1 million Indians last year, more
than in any other country, according to the diabetes federation.
It estimates 87 million Indians will have the disease by 2030.  TB and Diabetes  The Geneva-based WHO and the International Union Against
Tuberculosis and Lung Disease in Paris developed  guidance  on
caring and controlling TB and diabetes, they said in a joint
statement this month. The guidelines include ways to improve
detection and management of TB in patients with diabetes and
diabetes in patients with TB.  “Diabetes is rising precipitously in low- and middle-
income countries undergoing rapid economic, social and lifestyle
changes,” the groups said in a Sept. 1 e-mail. “It is also
gaining ground in the low-income countries where TB has always
thrived. This is a major concern since the increase in diabetes
cases could jeopardize progress made in the global fight against
TB over the last decade.”  More than 90 percent of the world’s 366 million diabetics
have the obesity-linked Type-2 form in which the hormone insulin
is unable to regulate sugar in the blood. High blood-glucose
levels weaken infection-fighting white blood cells, said  A.
Ramachandran , an endocrinologist and president of the  India 
Diabetes Research Foundation.  “This is the reason people with diabetes are at risk of
getting all kinds of infections,” Ramachandran said in an
interview in Chennai. Even small injuries can transform into
life-threatening complications, he said.  TB Superbugs  TB spreads through the air similar to the common cold. When
people who are sick with TB in their lungs cough, sneeze, talk
or spit, they propel TB germs, known as bacilli, into the air. A
person needs only to inhale a small number of these to be
infected, according to a WHO  fact sheet .  Bhanumati Joshi, a 66-year-old diabetic in Mumbai, said her
TB infection caused a persistent cough that went undiagnosed for
two months because X-rays weren’t able to detect any cavities in
the lung that are characteristic of the disease. In mid February,
she developed lesions around her neck from which blood samples
were taken and found to contain the tuberculosis bacterium.  Undetected Cases  Current surveillance identifies about 60 percent of the
cases predicted by epidemiological studies. A lack of testing
centers and a failure to detect TB cases means 3.6 million
sufferers worldwide aren’t being treated. Half of multidrug-
resistant cases globally occur in India and  China , leading to
150,000 deaths in 2008, the WHO estimates.  “They cough, they sneeze, they die quietly, and nobody
knows where they are,” said Lucica Ditiu, executive director of
the WHO’s  Stop TB  partnership in Geneva. “By screening all
diabetics we may be able to find these missing cases.”  Treating TB in diabetes sufferers takes longer because the
infection progresses faster and is more aggressive than in non-
diabetics, said Reinout van Crevel, an infectious disease
specialist at Radboud University in the Dutch city of Nijmegen,
who has studied both diseases in  Indonesia .  Cross Reaction  Also the TB-fighting antibiotic  rifampicin  speeds the
breakdown of sugar in the liver, interfering with the activity
of diabetic drugs, Crevel said. Doctors need to monitor the
effectiveness of both treatment regimens regularly to ensure
optimal therapeutic benefit, he said.  At her home in suburban Mumbai, Joshi is reclining on her
bed, nursing a hip injury that occurred when she fell during a
dizzy spell.  “This diabetes leaves me very tired everyday in the
evening,” she said. “I can’t cook and just have to lie down
and rest.”  TB is adding to her fatigue as well as the family’s medical
costs -- about 1,200 rupees ($25) a month for medications alone,
she says.  Her husband Jagdish leafs through hundreds of pages of her
medical records gathered over the past decade. The couple knew
little about diabetes or how it should be managed when Joshi was
diagnosed with it in 1978.  “Back then, we thought diabetes was a small problem that
will go away in a few months,” Jagdish said. “It’s just been
one blow after the other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  