-- 
Serial Killer Lured Jews, Fooled Gestapo in Nazi France: Books

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-09-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/doctor-butchered-jews-fooled-gestapo-in-nazi-france-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
As a youngster, Marcel Petiot tried
to boil the family cat and, when thwarted by his horrified
mother, succeeded in smothering the beast later that night.  Worse was to come.  Before he was guillotined in 1946, Petiot may have murdered
more than 100 people in the four years that the Nazis occupied
France.  The number is vague because so little was left of his
victims once the bits and pieces were shoved into an oven or
tossed into a lime pit.  Petiot was ultimately charged with butchering 27 men and
women -- most of them Jews, though he was hardly encouraged, it
seems, by any Nazi overlords.  “ Death in the City of Light: The Serial Killer of Nazi-
Occupied Paris ” is author David King’s weirdly absorbing caper
through a sinister French capital darkened by a 10 p.m. curfew
and festooned with Third Reich bunting.   King  starts off with the grisly findings at a smoke-
belching mansion in the rue Le Sueur on March 11, 1944. A
charred hand is still cooking in the coal stove; body parts
litter the basement room. Gagging from the smell, members of the
fire brigade stagger into the street.  Nice Guy  The owner of the mansion was, of course, little Marcel!
He’d grown up into a mad doctor with a pretty wife, a normal son
and a lot of flabbergasted friends and acquaintances.  “It’s unbelievable. He’s a man so sweet, so calm,” said
a woman who worked with the homicide department.  Even more unbelievably, the officer she called Captain
Henri-Jean Valeri was, in fact, Petiot, who had sprouted a lot
of new facial hair and smoothly inserted himself into the
ongoing investigation of himself.  The police spent seven months hunting him down, unearthing
a string of aliases, suspicious disappearances and a startling
number of suitcases.  These suitcases, hidden in an attic of an electronics shop
in the Burgundy region, numbered 49 and, as the commissaire
began opening them, they revealed what he called “the most
tragic cargo.”  The doctor had stuffed them with handbags, evening gowns,
jackets, socks, slippers, belts, eyeglasses, hairpins -- some
1,760 items in all.  These were the things once worn by the frightened people
who had come to Petiot believing he could smuggle them to
safety. In fact, he took their money, killed them and hoarded
their belongings.  The Gestapo  An underground network of lowlifes who preyed on Jews and
other frightened people benefited as well from his psychopathic
enterprise. At times, he posed as the patriotic Dr. Eugene, who
risked his life for members of the Resistance in their battle
against the Germans.  Petiot seems to have been that rarest of creatures, a mass
murderer even the Gestapo found creepy. About a year before the
startling discovery in the rue Le Sueur, Gestapo agents had
hauled him into a small room and tortured him with dental
equipment, apparently thinking he was helping Jews get out of
 France . But then they let him go.  Why? Even King, who had unusual access to restricted police
dossiers, finds the Gestapo connection puzzling.  Neither is he sure just how Petiot killed so many people
with such ease. As a doctor, he had easy access to cyanide and
could have injected his victims with a syringe. Or maybe he
gassed them, creating his own mini-Auschwitz for the sad,
gullible people hoping for help.  By the time Petiot stood trial in the fall of 1944, France
had just rushed into the light as the Occupation gave way to the
chaos of the Liberation.  Loving Details  Unsurprisingly, Petiot loved his trial, preening until the
end, joshing with the spectators and generally besting the
prosecutors. The accusations were simply incredible, he
exclaimed. He expected to be given a medal for killing Nazis as
a brave member of the Resistance! His trial was a farce!  Some of the stories unfolded by King would have benefited
from a scalpel; his cast of characters can get confusing. Still,
his descriptions of the underworld are fascinating and I
appreciated his attention to detail.  That jar of genitals really lingers in the mind.  “Death in the City of Light: The Serial Killer of Nazi-
Occupied Paris” is from Crown (416 pages, $26). To buy this
book in  North America , click  here .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions are her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New
York  at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 Jburke21@bloomberg.net . 