-- 
Dos Santos Grip on Power Is ‘Dangerous’ for Angola, Ex-Premier Moco Says

-- B y   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s
-- 
2011-09-14T11:09:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/dos-santos-grip-on-power-is-dangerous-for-angola-ex-premier-moco-says.html
Angolan President Jose Eduardo  dos Santos ’s 32-year grip on power is “very dangerous” for the
country, former Prime Minister Marcolino Moco said.  Angolans enjoy fewer individual liberties and human rights
today than during the period of one-party rule between 1975 and
1992, Moco, a law professor at the state-run Universidade
Agostinho Neto, told reporters in yesterday in the capital,
Luanda.  Dos Santos’s Popular Movement for the Liberation of  Angola ,
or MPLA, won 82 percent of the seats in the 2008 parliamentary
elections, the first in 16 years. The party changed the
constitution so that lawmakers elect the president, scrapping a
public vote scheduled for 2009.  The MPLA last week signaled for the first time that Dos
Santos’s rule in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-biggest oil
producer may be coming to an end. The president may step down
before or after next year’s parliamentary elections, Rui Falcao
de Andrade, a member of the party’s political bureau, said in a
Sept. 6 interview.  A court on Sept. 12 sentenced 18 protesters who had
demanded an end to Dos Santos’s presidency to as much as three
months in prison, and similar charges are pending against about
30 more dissidents.  Human Rights Watch  has condemned the trials,
and Moco said the sentences will show whether Angolan courts are
independent or “an extension” of the executive.  Moco was prime minister between 1992 and 1996. He was
sacked by Dos Santos after proposing negotiations to end the
civil war that began with the country’s independence in 1975,
departing from the official line that the rebels must be
crushed, according to news reports at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candido Mendes in Luanda at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 