-- 
DreamWorks, American Eagle Attractive M&A Targets, Report Says

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-09-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/dreamworks-american-eagle-make-attractive-buyout-targets-report-says.html
Companies from DreamWorks Animation
SKG to  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)  are attractive takeover
targets because they have cash-heavy balance sheets and their
stocks have declined, said  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   While deals valued at more than $10 billion may be put on
hold until next year amid economic concerns in the U.S. and
 Europe , companies with market capitalizations below that level
offer “ample opportunities” for buyers to expand vertically or
gain footholds in emerging markets, Chicago-based Morningstar
said in a report yesterday.  “The small- to mid-cap names on our takeover list shot up
the rankings,” said Morningstar director R.J. Hottovy, the
report’s editor, in a telephone interview. “These are more
feasible targets given the current environment. We still expect
M&A activity to happen, but largely small-cap, all-cash deals.”  Of 25 deals worth more than $10 billion announced in the
past 12 months, six were canceled, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. July was the fourth consecutive month in which fewer
deals were announced than in the same month last year, Hottovy
said.  “We expected a lot of blockbuster, transformational deals
to happen, and certainly the credit markets seemed to support
that earlier in the year,” said Hottovy. “But the recent
market volatility we’ve had and fears about the credit situation
in the U.S. and Europe have put mega-cap deals on the
backburner.”  Riverbed, Sprint  Among the companies Morningstar ranked as “top takeover
candidates” are  Riverbed Technology Inc. (RVBD) , which makes computer-
networking products, clothing retailer American Eagle and oil
producer  SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD)  Of the 13 companies on the list,
11 have market capitalizations less than $5 billion.  Morningstar analysts used characteristics such as a
target’s size, leverage and cash flow to rank 88 takeover
targets across eight industries. The authors also identified
potential acquirers, including  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   “While we think there is a reasonable chance that Sprint
will pursue one of its smaller rivals in the near future, the
firm could also become the prey of a larger firm,” the report
said. “As the last independent nationwide wireless carrier
around, a number of other financially strong firms could be
interested,” Morningstar said, including cable companies such
as  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  or another international operator looking to
gain a foothold in the U.S.  American Eagle, based in Pittsburgh, plunged 25 percent
this year through yesterday. The company, which has a market
capitalization of about $2.1 billion, reported cash and
equivalents of $389 million as of July 30. DreamWorks, based in
Glendale,  California , has a market value of $1.7 billion. The
movie studio reported cash and equivalents of $113 million as of
June 30. Its stock has tumbled 32 percent.  Below are the companies with the most potential to attract
takeover bids, according to Morningstar:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net  