-- 
Kolon Loses $920 Million Verdict to DuPont in Trial Over Kevlar

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y ,   G a r y   R o b e r t s   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-09-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/dupont-wins-at-least-919-million-in-kevlar-trade-secrets-case.html
Kolon Industries Inc. (120110)  lost a $919.9
million jury verdict to DuPont Co. over the theft of trade
secrets about the manufacture of Kevlar, an anti-ballistic fiber
used in police and military gear.  Jurors in federal court in  Richmond , Virginia, deliberated
about 10 hours over two days before finding Gyeonggi, South
Korea-based Kolon and its U.S. unit wrongfully obtained DuPont’s
proprietary information about Kevlar by hiring some of the
company’s former engineers and marketers. The award yesterday is
the third-largest jury verdict this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  DuPont, based in Wilmington, Delaware, is spending more
than $500 million to boost  Kevlar  production and meet rising
demand for armor and lightweight materials that reduce energy
use. Kevlar and  Nomex , a related fiber used in firefighting
gear, accounted for about $1.4 billion of DuPont’s $31.5 billion
in sales last year.  The “jury decision is an enormous victory for global
intellectual property protection,” Thomas L. Sager, DuPont’s
general counsel, said in a statement. “It also sends a message
to potential thieves of intellectual property that DuPont will
pursue all legal remedies to protect our significant investment
in research and development.”  DuPont rose 86 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $45.52 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. The shares have
declined 8.7 percent this year.  Kolon said it disagrees with the verdict and will appeal.  ‘Multiyear Campaign’  The “verdict is the result of a multiyear campaign by
DuPont aimed at forcing Kolon out of the aramid fiber market,”
Kolon said in a statement e-mailed by Dan Tudesco of Brodeur
Partners, a public relations agency. “Kolon had no need for and
did not solicit any  trade secrets  or proprietary information of
DuPont, and had no reason to believe that the consultants it
engaged were providing such information. Indeed, many of the
‘secrets’ alleged in this case are public knowledge.”  Kolon said it will continue to pursue an antitrust case
against DuPont, which is scheduled for a March trial. DuPont
will file motions later this year to have the case dismissed,
Sager said in a telephone interview.  DuPont will pursue recovery of the award “wherever we can
find Kolon assets,” Sager said. The company also will seek
punitive damages for each of the 149 stolen secrets,
reimbursement of more than $30 million in attorney’s fees and an
order barring Kolon from making products with DuPont’s
information, Sager said.  Body Armor  DuPont, the largest U.S. chemical company by market value,
sued Kolon in February 2009 alleging it stole confidential data
about Kevlar. DuPont began selling the bullet-resistant fiber in
1965 and it’s used in body armor, military helmets, ropes,
cables and tires. Kolon began making its own version of the
para-aramid fiber in 2005.  DuPont argued in court filings that Kolon executives
conspired with five former employees of the U.S. chemical maker
or its Japanese joint venture, DuPont-Toray Co., to gain access
to Kevlar information.  To spur sales of its Heracron aramid fiber, Kolon hired
 Michael Mitchell , a former DuPont engineer who also had served
as a Kevlar marketing executive, DuPont said in court papers.
DuPont contended that Mitchell, hired as a consultant, provided
Kolon with proprietary information about Kevlar.  ‘Home Computer’  Mitchell “retained certain highly confidential information
on his home computer” and passed the information to Kolon,
DuPont alleged in court filings.  After learning about Mitchell’s activities, DuPont
executives alerted the  Federal Bureau of Investigation ,
according to U.S. Justice Department officials.  During a search of Mitchell’s  Virginia  home, FBI agents
uncovered DuPont documents and computers containing confidential
information belonging to his former employer, federal
prosecutors said last year.  Mitchell pleaded guilty to theft of trade secrets and
obstruction of justice and was sentenced in March 2010 to 18
months in prison.  Kolon recruited other former DuPont workers, including
engineers and researchers, as part of a “concerted effort” to
obtain information about Kevlar, according to court filings.  “DuPont’s investment in developing this information,
amounting to hundreds of millions of dollars over many years,
was thereby essentially lost,” the company said in a filing in
October. “Kolon is now able to compete against DuPont in the
aramid marketing using DuPont’s own information against it.”  The case is E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. v. Kolon
Industries Inc., 09-cv-58, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware  at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Roberts in London at 
 g.roberts@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  