-- 
Enrolling Uninsured Expands Health Insurer Base

-- B y   C a r o l   E i s e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-14T15:13:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/health-insurer-push-to-enroll-uninsured-expands-customer-base.html
Health insurers, pharmaceutical
companies, hospitals and consumer groups kicked off an effort to
sign up a record 49.9 million uninsured Americans for coverage
under the health-care law.  The coalition, called “Enroll America,” pledged a $6
million payment today to cover operations as the U.S. Census
Bureau reported the unprecedented number of Americans lacking
health insurance in 2010. While some companies opposed the
health-care law, participants benefit from more enrollees,
organizers said.  “Within the group, there are varying views on health
reform, but there’s a recognition that it is the law and it’s a
good thing to get as many people covered as possible,” said
Paul Markovich, executive vice president and chief operating
officer of Blue Shield of  California , part of the group’s
advisory board.  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimates 32 million
uninsured Americans will get coverage under the law by 2019
through tax credits for private plans or expansion of the
Medicaid program for the poor. Added enrollment will translate
into new revenue for insurers, drugmakers and health providers,
organizers said.  Legal challenges to the law are making their way through
the courts as Republicans pledge to dismantle the overhaul.  Drug companies pledged $2.5 million, insurers promise $1.5
million, hospitals agreed to $825,000 and foundations represent
$1.3 million. Members include the American Hospital Association
trade group, generic drugs maker Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, the
National Association of Health Underwriters and  Kaiser
Permanente .  For Related News and Information:
Today’s most popular health-care stories: MNI HEA
Top health news  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Eisenberg in Washington at 
 Ceisenberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 