-- 
ECB Will Lend Dollars to Two Euro-Region Banks as Market Funding Tightens

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-09-14T22:45:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/ecb-lends-dollars-to-two-banks-in-the-euro-area-as-credit-markets-tighten.html
The  European Central Bank  said it
will lend dollars to two euro-area banks tomorrow, a sign they
are finding it difficult to borrow the U.S. currency in markets.  The ECB allotted $575 million in a regular seven-day
liquidity-providing operation at a fixed rate of 1.1 percent.
It’s the first time since Aug. 17 that a lender requested
dollars from the ECB. The spot rate was $1.3625. An ECB
spokesman declined to comment on which banks borrowed the funds.  The premium European banks pay to borrow in dollars through
the swaps market is close to the highest level in almost three
years. The cost of converting euro-based payments into dollars,
as measured by the one-year cross-currency basis swap, was 99.1
basis points below the euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor,
at 12:24 p.m. in  Frankfurt , indicating a premium to buy the
greenback. It widened to as much as 112.6 basis points earlier
this week, the most since Dec. 2, 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. money-market funds “have stopped rolling over dollar
loans of European banks,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of market
analysis at Schneider Foreign Exchange in  London . “I wouldn’t
be surprised if demand increased in the next weeks.”  U.S. funds are cutting their holdings in European banks on
concern the institutions may face funding problems as the
sovereign-debt crisis escalates.  Credit Ratings  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and Societe Generale SA had their long-
term credit ratings cut one level today by Moody’s Investors
Service, which said it will now evaluate the impact of tighter
financing markets on French banks. BNP Paribas SA, the largest
French bank, had its long-term rating kept on review for a
possible cut.  BNP Paribas didn’t borrow dollars from the ECB, Paris-based
spokeswoman Carine Lauru said by phone today.  U.S. money-market fund managers have cut their lending to
French banks at a pace that may force them to raise capital by
selling assets, according to a Sept. 9 report by William Prophet, a desk analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.  Societe Generale (GLE)  Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea 
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday that
the bank could resist a freeze in dollar financing from U.S.
money-market funds indefinitely.  “Even if it were to go to zero, there would be no
problem,” Oudea said. “We have plenty of buffers of liquidity
and we are adjusting to the reduction in the money-market fund
exposure.”  Disposals  Societe Generale,  France ’s third-largest bank by assets,
reduced its short-term dollar funding to 60 billion euros ($82
billion) by the end of August from 72 billion euros at the end
of June, the bank said on Sept. 12. Societe Generale also said
it plans to free up 4 billion euros in capital through disposals
by 2013 to reassure investors about its finances.  BNP Paribas (BNP) ’s cost of borrowing in dollars has risen in the
past four weeks amid concern U.S. money-market funds are
shutting off lending to France’s banks because of their holdings
of Greek government debt. BNP Paribas yesterday said it is able
to finance its dollar needs at normal levels “directly and
through foreign-exchange swaps.”  The Paris-based bank said today it aims to boost its common
equity tier 1 capital ratio to 9 percent by the start of 2013,
under Basel III rules, as it scales back U.S. dollar corporate-
and investment-banking business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  