-- 
Hedge Funds Facing Succession Challenge as Kovner Hands Off Caxton to Law

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-09-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/hedge-funds-facing-succession-challenge-as-kovner-hands-off-caxton-to-law.html
Bruce Kovner  is betting he can pull
off what eluded  Stanley Druckenmiller  and  Julian Robertson :
Keeping his hedge fund alive after retiring from trading client
money.  Kovner yesterday named chief investment officer Andrew Law,
45, to run his $10 billion Caxton Associates LP. Kovner, 66, who
started the New York-based firm in 1983, told clients in a
letter that he will retire by the end of the year to pursue
personal interests. Peter D’Angelo, 64, the firm’s president and
co-founder, will also step aside.  Caxton is confronting a difficult challenge for a growing
number of hedge funds: managing succession in a business where
success is built on the founders’ trading skill and reputation.
Unlike private-equity firms such as  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , which
transformed themselves from private investment partnerships into
public, diversified asset managers, top hedge funds from
Robertson’s Tiger Management LLC to Druckenmiller’s Duquesne
Capital Management LLC returned investor money after the
founders stepped back.  “Hedge funds haven’t done a great job at succession
planning,” said Myron Kaplan, a partner at New York law firm
Kleinberg, Kaplan, Wolff & Cohen PC who advises hedge funds.
“The key is to institutionalize the firm and change investors’
perceptions of the fund as a single guru’s shop.”  Hedge-Fund Legends  In the past year, at least three top hedge-fund managers
ceased investing client money.  George Soros , the 81-year-old
billionaire, told investors in July that he would turn  New York- 
based Soros Fund Management LLC into a family office. Chris Shumway, 45, founder of Shumway Capital Partners LLC in
Greenwich, Connecticut, said in February that he would return
capital to clients. Druckenmiller, 58, shuttered his New York
hedge fund in August 2010.  Hedge-fund legends including Robertson, 79, and Michael Steinhardt, 70, returned client money in 2000 and 1995
respectively.  “It’s a shame that franchise value is being dissipated and
not realized by all the people involved, be it the founder, his
employees and investors,” said Kaplan.  In contrast, the founders of the largest private-equity
firms, many of whom are in their sixties, have diversified their
businesses and sold shares to the public as part of their
efforts to ensure the long-term survival of their companies.  KKR’s Future  Blackstone, the biggest private-equity firm, and Fortress
Investment Group LLC went public in 2007. KKR & Co. gained a  New
York  listing last year, and Apollo Global Management LLC did the
same in March. Carlyle Group this month filed for an initial
public offering.  At KKR in New York, co-chairmen  Henry Kravis  and George Roberts set up a management committee where they share oversight
of the firm with younger executives who may one day run the
business. Kravis, 67, said at the firm’s investor day in March
that succession is on his and Roberts’ minds.  “You have to be assured that George and I think about this
every day,” he said. “We talk about what will be the future at
KKR and you can’t run any company, in our view, unless you build
a very deep bench of people.”  Blackstone said in its 2007 IPO filing that President  Tony James , 60, would succeed 64-year-old Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Schwarzman if he steps down. Schwarzman started New
York-based Blackstone in 1985 with  Peter G. Peterson , 85, who
retired at the end of 2008.  ‘Ahead of Hedge Funds’  Private-equity firms raise money from investors to take
over companies, financing the purchases mostly with debt, with
the intention of selling them later for a profit. Hedge funds
are mostly private pools of capital whose managers participate
substantially in the profits from their speculation on whether
the price of assets will rise or fall.  “Succession is one of the things where private equity is
ahead of hedge funds,” said Daniel Celeghin, a partner at
Casey, Quirk & Associates LLC in Darien,  Connecticut , which
advises asset-management firms. “They have an advantage because
the nature of their businesses is more collaborative, decision-
making is shared among teams.”  Buyout firms are also at an advantage, according to
Celeghin, because the capital in their funds is locked up for
longer periods, usually 10 years, compared with the common
quarterly withdrawal notices for hedge-fund investors.  Preparing Investors  For succession to work at hedge funds, the founders must
delegate responsibilities, communicate that to investors and
ensure those with added responsibilities are more visible as
well as recognized for their contributions, according to Eric Weinstein, who runs the $4 billion fund-of-hedge-funds business
at Neuberger Berman Group LLC in New York.  “This must happen incrementally over a period of years or
investors will take their money out following a change of
control that can be viewed as sudden,” he said.  At Caxton, one of the first hedge funds that sought to
profit from macroeconomic trends, Kovner started preparing
clients for the change about three years ago when he promoted
Law, who joined the firm in 2003, to the new role of CIO. Law
manages about 20 percent of the assets, including leverage, of
the main Caxton Global Investment fund, or about $3.5 billion,
and has been the main contact for investors.  The fund has returned an average of 21 percent a year since
inception, compared with an average gain of 11 percent including
dividends by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The $7 billion
fund had one losing year, in 1994, when it fell 2.5 percent. In
Kovner’s time at Caxton, the S&P fell in five calendar years,
including a 37 percent drop in 2008.  ‘Prove Myself’  “I felt that I didn’t need to leave and start my own hedge
fund because Bruce had a vision for the firm that meant that I
had the opportunity to prove myself,” Law, who is based in
London and will continue to split his time between the U.K.
capital and New York, said in an interview in Caxton’s Park
Avenue office. Kovner declined to be interviewed for this
article.  Shumway found out the hard way just how quick investors are
to pull their money when he named a new CIO in November and told
clients that he plans to step back from managing money. Shumway
had sold a stake in his firm to a buyout fund run by Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. early last year and said at that time that he
planned to set up a partnership.  Within months of the November announcement, clients asked
to redeem $3 billion, prompting Shumway to return all outside
money by the end of the first quarter. A Tiger Management
alumnus whose firm oversaw more than $8 billion before shutting,
he now runs a family office and invests in new hedge funds.  ‘Lack of Trust’  “I don’t recall staying with a hedge fund after the main
manager stepped away,” said Peter Rup, CIO of New York-based
Artemis Wealth Advisors LLC, which invests in hedge funds for
clients. “It’s down to a lack of trust in the ability of the
successors to step up, so as an investor, why take the risk?”  Other funds have struggled to find and keep the right
successor. Soros went through four investment chiefs after the
departure of Druckenmiller, his right-hand man from late 1988
until 2000.  Keith Anderson , his CIO since 2008, left after Soros
said he would return all client money.  Louis Bacon , the 55-year-old founder of Moore Capital
Management LP in New York, in the past three years hired senior
traders including Greg Coffey and Jean-Philippe Blochet. Blochet
quit after 17 months to pursue philanthropy. Bacon hasn’t
publicly named a successor.  “Succession is not something that some managers want to
think about,” said Joel Press, founder of New York-based Press
Management LLC, who advises hedge funds on succession planning.
“It takes a lot of time, effort and creates additional
pressures to running their businesses.”  ‘Deep Bench’  Tudor Investment Corp., the $11 billion hedge fund run by
Paul Tudor Jones, hasn’t announced a succession plan, according
to two people familiar with the matter. Jones, 57, who started
his main fund in 1986, told AR Magazine last year that he had no
intention to cease trading or retire in the following five
years. Tudor is based in Greenwich, Connecticut.  Leon Cooperman , the 68-year-old founder of $6 billion hedge
fund Omega Advisors Inc. in New York, said he doesn’t lose much
sleep over succession planning. The hedge fund, which employs 35
people, has a “deep bench of talent,” he said in a telephone
interview, referring to Vice Chairman Steven Einhorn, 62, who
has been with Omega since 1999, and co-directors of research Sam Martini, 36, and Jon Aborn, 39, who joined in January.  “Succession is not on my mind,” Cooperman said. “I want
to be able to match someone like George Soros” who is investing
past the age of 80, he said.  Going Public  Among the funds that have managed to reduce the dependence
on their founders, many follow strategies that distribute
investment decisions among groups of traders or use computer
models, rather than relying on a single trader.  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC (OZM) , the $30 billion New York company that went
public in 2007, is a multistrategy firm that invests in a broad
range of assets from stocks to real estate.  James Simons, the 73-year-old founder of Renaissance
Technologies Corp. in East Setauket, New York, last year turned
over responsibility for his firm, which uses computer models to
invest the firm’s $20 billion in assets, to former co-presidents
Bob Mercer, 65, and Peter Brown, 56.  David Shaw , founder of D.E. Shaw & Co., in 2002 handed
running of his $21 billion hedge fund to a six-person committee.
Shaw, 60, sold a stake in his firm to Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2007 and spends most of his time as chief scientist at
 D.E. Shaw Research , which conducts research in computational
biochemistry.  ‘Real Transition’  “For some firms, we have to ask whether it’s a real
transition,” said Kaplan, whose firm is counsel to hedge fund
Elliott Management Corp. “Are the founders still running their
firms from the shadows, did they share a fair amount of equity
and have an appropriate profit-sharing arrangement in place?”  Israel Englander, 62, founder of Millennium Management LLC,
has held talks about selling a minority stake in his firm,
according to a person briefed on the matter. Englander, who told
a conference in November that he plans to be in the business
until he’s about 80 years old, started New York-based Millennium
in 1989 and stepped away from directly trading money five years
later. The firm has more than 110 portfolio managers who oversee
$10.8 billion in assets.  ‘Mentor’ Dalio  At Bridgewater Associates Inc., 62-year-old founder  Ray
Dalio  in the past year started sharing his role as chief
executive officer with Greg Jensen, 37, David McCormick, 46, and
Eileen Murray, 53, before relinquishing that position in July
when he became “mentor.” Dalio retained his CIO role, which he
has shared with Bob Prince since 1986. Bridgewater oversees $122
billion out of Westport, Connecticut.  Arrangements such as Dalio’s, where the founder gradually
shares responsibility with co-executives rather than handing
them over entirely, have been popular with a number of other
funds.  Paul Singer , the 67-year-old founder of Elliott Management,
a $17.4 billion hedge fund in New York, last year promoted Jon Pollock, 47, to co-CIO. Singer last year created a four-person
board of directors that would take control of the hedge fund if
Singer were to no longer run the business.  Mark Kingdon, 62, who started Kingdon Capital Management
LLC in New York in 1983, told investors in 2009 of his plans to
step down by the age of 70 and last year set up a four-person
committee, which includes CIO Richard Rieger, to help with the
$4.6 billion firm’s succession process.  Spreading Responsibility  At SAC Capital Advisors LP, founder  Steven A. Cohen  manages
less than 10 percent of the firm’s capital, with the rest
allocated to about 125 portfolio managers, according to a person
familiar with the fund. Last year Cohen, 55, picked four senior
traders to help select investments for the $3 billion he
personally oversees. An eight-person team that includes the SAC
Capital’s head trader oversees the running of the $14 billion
hedge fund in Stamford, Connecticut.  “Management committees are not the most important part of
the succession process,” said Press. “Managers must also think
about equity, compensation and governance.”  Investors in Paulson & Co., the $35 billion hedge fund run
by  John Paulson , were told at a Paris event in June that Andrew Hoine, 37, director of research, would become CIO if the 55-
year-old billionaire were to step away from the business,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter. Paulson has
told clients that age 70 would be a good time to retire, said
two investors who asked not to be named because the fund is
private.  ‘One-Man Shows’  Paulson owns more than 75 percent of his New York-based
firm, while Hoine is one of four employees who each have a stake
of less than 5 percent, according to a regulatory filing in
March.  “Even with a lot of institutionalization, many hedge funds
are to a large extent one-man shows,” said Ronan Cosgrave,
portfolio manager at Pacific Alternative Asset Management Co.,
an Irvine, California-based firm that invests in hedge funds on
behalf of clients.  Officials for the hedge funds declined to comment.  At Caxton, Law oversees 26 trading teams, which trade a
range of assets from commodities to currencies to profit from
economic trends. Seven of those teams are based in London, where
they manage more than half of the firm’s risk. Starting next
year, Law, who will be chairman and CEO, plans to institute an
operating committee to run the day-to-day business of the firm,
which has 220 employees worldwide.  Learning From Kovner  Kovner and D’Angelo will remain investors in the fund and
will retain “substantial minority stakes” in the firm, Law
said. Law, who has no plans to move to New York, said his
trading style has always been similar to Kovner’s, and he’s
learned some valuable lessons, such as understanding markets and
cutting risk when they seem to make no sense.  “Most transitions fail due to lack of profitability and
personality issues,” Law, a former head of Goldman Sachs’s
proprietary-trading business in London, said in the interview.
“When you don’t get the markets right, that’s when people fall
out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  