-- 
Medicare Eligibility Age Should Rise to 67, Health CEOs Say

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-09-14T20:26:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/medicare-eligibility-age-needs-to-rise-to-67-health-ceos-say.html
A congressional panel negotiating
U.S. spending cuts should raise the age when people become
eligible for Medicare to 67 from 65, a group representing
health-care chief executives said today.  The Washington-based Healthcare Leadership Council included
the recommendation in four proposals it said would save $410
billion in a decade, along with having private health plans to
cover additional Medicare recipients and make people earning
more than $150,000 pay for the full cost of the program’s
premiums.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and Merck & Co., the two largest U.S.
drugmakers by revenue, are members of the council.  “This supercommittee process is a unique opportunity to do
more than simply chop away at budgets,” Mary Grealy, the
group’s president, said in a statement, referring to the 12-
member congressional debt panel. The council called for
overhauling the legal liability system for medical providers.  Medicare, the U.S. health program for the elderly and
disabled, currently covers 47 million people and spends $519
billion a year, according to the  Menlo Park , California-based
 Kasier Family Foundation .  The program is a prime target for the debt panel, which is
made up of six lawmakers from each party. Unless members reach a
deal to cut $1.2 trillion from  government spending , a mechanism
will automatically trim 2 percent, or $123 billion, from the
$6.1 trillion the U.S. is projected to spend on Medicare in
coming years, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Hospitals’ Position  Lobbying group the American Hospital Association has
already backed raising the Medicare age to 67. In a memo sent to
hospitals, the Chicago-based group said that cuts to health-care
providers would damage the industry, and that instead its
members should support the age increase.  Along with the executives from New York-based Pfizer and
Merck, of  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , the group includes
senior executives from  Aetna Inc. (AET) , based in Hartford,
Connecticut, device maker  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  of Minneapolis and
Deerfield, Illinois-based drugstore chain  Walgreen Co. (WAG)   The council called for raising the Medicare eligibility age
in two-month increments until it reaches 67. People who would
have been covered by Medicare would have to buy policies through
new marketplaces called insurance exchanges created by the 2010
health law.  President  Barack Obama  said during a July press conference
that he would be willing to look at raising the Medicare
eligibility age in the future. In a Sept. 9 speech, Obama
reiterated that Medicare and Medicaid would both be up for
changes, in spite of concerns of fellow Democrats, who have
criticized Republican proposals to alter the programs.  “I realize there are some in my party who don’t think we
should make any changes at all to Medicare and Medicaid,” Obama
said in his address to Congress last week. “If we don’t
gradually reform the system while protecting current
beneficiaries, it won’t be there when future retirees need it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 