-- 
Eircom Said to Win Waiver Averting $5 Billion Debt Default

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-09-14T16:57:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/eircom-said-to-win-waiver-from-lenders-averting-5-billion-debt-default.html
Eircom Group Ltd., Ireland’s
biggest phone company, reached an agreement with lenders to
waive debt terms and avert a $5 billion default, two people with
direct knowledge of the matter said.  A spokesman for the Dublin-based company declined to
comment on the waiver, which required approval from two-thirds
of senior lenders.  Eircom, saddled with 3.75 billion euros ($5.1 billion) of
debt, is struggling to meet loan conditions as austerity
measures weigh on its earnings. The covenant waiver may be a
temporary fix, said Steven Mitra, a partner at LNG Capital LLP.  “In a debt restructuring situation, getting a waiver is by
no means an indication the company is close to being out of the
crisis,” said London-based Mitra, who doesn’t hold the
company’s debt. “If covenants are getting busted and valuations
don’t stack up, shareholders will need to either recapitalize or
inject more equity.”  Eircom began talks with lenders in May for a three-
month waiver on covenants after saying a breach was likely.
Irish borrowers are suffering from the stigma of the
government’s 85 billion-euro bailout last year to rescue the
nation’s ailing lenders.  Eircom’s capital structure is “unsustainable” as a weak
Irish economy drains its earnings, Moody’s Investors Service
said in June when it downgraded the ratings on its parent to
Caa2 from Caa1 citing a possible default. The company cut its
annual earnings forecast to about 550 million euros from more
than 600 million euros, two people familiar with the borrower
said in June.  The senior lenders are represented by Alcentra Group Ltd.,
Avoca Capital Holdings,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , GSO Capital Partners
LP, Harbourmaster Capital Management Ltd. and Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc., Eircom said July 7. They are being advised
by Houlihan Lokey.  To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net 
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net  