-- 
Electronic Cigarette Ban Sought by U.S. on Airline Flights

-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 
2011-09-14T18:26:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/electronic-cigarette-ban-sought-by-u-s-on-commercial-flights.html
The  U.S. Transportation Department 
is proposing a ban on electronic cigarettes on airline flights
over concerns about the risks of other passengers breathing
vapors from the devices.  The department, in a proposed rule published in the Federal
Register today, cited medical studies raising health concerns
about e-cigarettes.  “Airline passengers have rights, and this new rule would
enhance passenger comfort and reduce any confusion surrounding
the use of electronic cigarettes in flight,” Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood said in a statement.  The devices don’t ignite tobacco. They contain liquid
nicotine, which is warmed and turned into a vapor.  Some airlines have decided on their own to ban e-
cigarettes, said  Steve Lott , spokesman for the industry’s
Washington-based trade group, the  Air Transport Association .  Smoking was banned on U.S. airline flights in 2000. The
“increasing promotion and availability of electronic
cigarettes” prompted the department to act, it said in the
rule. The electronic-cigarette industry generates an estimated
$100 million in annual sales, it said.  Health Questions  In addition to nicotine, the devices contain propylene
glycol to aid the vaporization process, the rule said. Propylene
glycol, which is used as a food additive, can cause “acute”
irritation in the respiratory system, it said.  The effects of inhaling propylene glycol have not been
adequately studied in humans, according to an article published
July 21 in the New England Journal of Medicine and cited in the
DOT’s proposed rule. The article also raised concerns about
quality control and variable nicotine content of electronic
cigarettes.  The department is giving the industry and the public 60
days to comment on the proposal.  A shipment of electronic cigarettes was linked to a fire
aboard a  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  cargo flight on Aug. 14, 2009, that landed
at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport, according to a
 report  by the  Federal Aviation Administration . Lithium batteries
in the devices ignited, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  