-- 
Electric-Car Battery Makers’ Capacity Will Be Double Demand

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-09-14T16:38:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/electric-car-battery-capacity-will-double-demand-study-says.html
Producers of electric-car batteries
such as  LG Chem Ltd. (051910)  and  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)  are building new
plants at such a pace that capacity will grow to almost double
automakers’ demand, a Bloomberg New Energy Finance report shows.  While manufacturers will have capacity to make 35 gigawatt
hours of batteries by 2013, carmakers have committed to produce
as many as 839,000 plug-in electric vehicles needing a total of
18 gigawatt-hours of storage, the London-based researcher said.  “The larger, mainly Asian, conglomerates can cope with
limited demand and compete by lowering prices but smaller pure-
play battery makers will be left vying for an increasingly
limited number of supply contracts,” said Ali Izadi-Najafabadi,
an energy technologies analyst at New Energy Finance.  The glut of factories may push smaller manufacturers out of
the running for orders and into areas such as  energy storage  for
surplus power from electricity grids, according to today’s
report. Battery prices may also decline to $350 per kilowatt-
hour in 2020 from $800 to $1,000 now, New Energy Finance said.  Among Asian companies best able to cope with the surplus
are LG Chem,  South Korea ’s biggest chemicals maker, Seoul-based
SK Innovation Co.,  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  in  Tokyo  and SB LiMotive, a
joint venture between Samsung Electronics Co. and  Robert Bosch
GmbH , said Shu Sun, another analyst at the research group.  Nissan, GM  LG Chem in April said it aims to spend 2 trillion won ($1.8
billion) by 2013 to expand its battery capacity for electric
cars. Nissan Motor Co. plans to make 500,000 batteries a year by
2015 through its Automotive Energy Supply Corp. venture.  Nissan, based in Yokohama,  Japan , and Detroit-based  General
Motors Co. (GM)  both began selling new electric cars in December.
Battery making has surged in the U.S., where spending under the
government’s Recovery Act has channeled about $2.4 billion into
the products, their components and charging infrastructure for
vehicles, according to U.S. Department of Energy figures.  The U.S. is set to hold as much as  40 percent  of capacity
by 2015, up from 2 percent before the stimulus, according to the
energy department. Of companies receiving funding,  Ener1 Inc. (HEV) ’s
EnerDel unit is expected to struggle the most, Sun said. It
received a grant of $118.5 million for a plant in Indianapolis.  Brian Sinderson, a spokesman for Ener1, didn’t immediately
reply to an e-mail and voicemail seeking comment.  The department also provided $299.2 million for a Johnson
Controls factory in Holland,  Michigan , the largest grant under
the program. Waltham, Massachusetts-based  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  got
$249.1 million for plant at Romulus and Brownstown in the state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 