-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Decline to 13-Month Low on European Debt Concerns

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-14T22:20:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/emerging-stocks-drop-to-13-month-low-on-u-s-data-europe-debt.html
Emerging-market stocks fell,
sending the benchmark index to the lowest level in more than 13
months, on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will sap demand and as
data showed further signs the U.S. economy is slowing.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 1.2 percent to
952.55 by 4:30 p.m.  New York  time, the lowest closing level
since July 2010. The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  sank 3.5 percent, the most in
 Asia , as South Korean markets resumed trading after a two-day
holiday. Taiwan’s TAIEX Index lost 2.2 percent, and Turkey’s
XU100 gauge dipped 0.9 percent. Benchmarks in Indonesia,
Malaysia and the  Czech Republic  also declined.  U.S. Commerce Department figures today showed retail sales
unexpectedly stagnated in August, following a 0.3 percent gain
for July, as a lack of jobs restrained shoppers. Another report
from the department indicated business inventories rose less
than forecast in July. European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said he is close to proposing options on joint euro-area
bond sales, while  Germany  was against using euro bonds as a tool
to help solve Europe’s debt problems.  “The U.S. data, somewhat disappointing, has dragged
markets down a bit,” John Lomax, an emerging-markets strategist
at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a phone interview from  London .
“The sentiment is just very fragile. The European situation is
still very unclear.”  20 Percent  The MSCI emerging markets measure entered a bear market
yesterday, after falling 20 percent from this year’s high
reached on May 2. The gauge has lost 17 percent this year,
compared with an 11 percent drop in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index.
Companies on the emerging-market benchmark are trading at 9
times estimated 12-month earnings, compared with 10.4 times for
stocks in developed markets.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said they are “convinced”  Greece  will remain in
the euro area and that Greek budget cuts will restore stability
to markets after they spoke to Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou by telephone today.  Earlier today, German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle 
told reporters in Berlin his nation is opposed to the euro bonds
because “you can’t fight debt in Europe by making it easier to
take up debt.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will travel to
a meeting of European Union finance ministers in  Poland  this
week to urge them to step up their efforts amid Obama
administration concerns that the region’s woes may hurt the  U.S.
economy .  Currencies Fall  Most currencies across emerging markets weakened against
the dollar, led by the Indonesian rupiah with a 2.5 percent
decline. Bank Indonesia “intervened in the rupiah and bond
markets,” Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said, adding that the
central bank doesn’t want the currency to fall further.  South Africa’s rand depreciated 1.2 percent and the Korean
won dropped 1.1 percent. Brazil’s real fell for a night day the
longest losing streak since 2005. The real lost 0.3 percent to
1.7144 per dollar, the weakest level since November.  Brazil’s Bovespa Index advanced 1.3 percent, erasing
earlier losses after the leaders of Europe’s two biggest
economies issued the statement on Greece. Embraer SA, the
world’s fourth-largest planemaker by sales, gained the most
among companies in the benchmark. The shares surged 4.9 percent
to the highest level in more than six weeks.  Poland,  China   The  MSCI EM (MXEF)  Emerging Europe Index pared losses of as much
as 1.1 percent after  Zhang Xiaoqiang , a vice chairman of China’s
top planning agency said the nation is still willing to buy
bonds from crisis-hit nations, according to interview
 transcripts  on the website of the National Development and
Reform Commission.  PKO Bank Polski SA, Poland’s biggest bank, rose 1.5 percent
in Warsaw, leading the WIG20 Index 0.7 percent higher. The BUX
Index advanced 0.9 percent in Budapest after four consecutive
days of decline. The Micex Index gained 0.5 percent in Moscow.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said today developed countries
“must first put their own houses in order” and not rely on
bailouts from his nation.  The Asian Development Bank cut today its 2011 growth
forecast for Asia excluding  Japan  to 7.5 percent from an April
estimate of 7.8 percent, in part because of global risks.  Samsung Electronics Co., South Korea’s biggest exporter of
consumer electronics, fell 3.5 percent in  Seoul .  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 3.90 percentage points, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net 
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  