-- 
Erste Agrees to Raise Stake in Romanian BCR for $599 Million

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-09-15T15:44:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/erste-agrees-to-raise-stake-in-romanian-bcr-for-599-million-1-.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , eastern
Europe’s second-biggest lender, agreed with four Romanian
investment funds to buy their 24.1 percent stake in its Banca
Comerciala Romana SA unit for 435 million euros ($599 million).  Four out of the five minority shareholders, known as SIFs,
will receive a total 453.9 million lei ($145 million) for their
shares and a stake of as much as 1 percent each in Erste through
a share swap, according to a statement from the Vienna-based
lender yesterday after markets closed. The accord is pending
approval from the funds’ shareholders.  “It has always been our strategy to hold the highest
possible stake in our subsidiaries and we are glad to have now
this possibility also in  Romania ,” Erste’s Chief Financial
Officer Manfred Wimmer said in the statement.  The agreement, which when completed raises Erste’s stake in
BCR to 93.5 percent, will give the lender greater access to its
Romanian unit’s earnings and capital by reducing the requirement
of deductions for minority shareholders, analysts including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Heiner Luz and UBS AG’s Daniele Brupbacher have said. It will also streamline decision-making
because the funds had veto rights for some issues, according to
BCR’s statutes.  Shares Rise  Erste shares rose 3.1 percent to 20.58 euros at the 5:30
p.m. close in Vienna, the biggest increase since Aug. 12. The
lender’s shares have declined 41 percent this year.  The Bucharest bourse’s BET-FI index, which tracks the five
investment funds, closed 3.2 percent higher at 18,662.72 points
in the Romanian capital.  The agreement “enhances Erste’s long-term growth profile
by increasing its emerging-market exposure,” Goldman’s Luz
wrote in a note to customers today. “We believe the deal was
widely expected and the valuation in line with book value takes
out some tail risks.”  Erste agreed to buy its initial 61.9 percent stake in BCR
in 2005 for 3.75 billion euros, or 5.8 times book value. That
made the acquisition the biggest bank purchase in eastern  Europe 
announced that year, and the one with the highest price in
relation to book value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BCR Listing  Yesterday’s accord values BCR at a multiple of 1.26 times
book based on Erste’s one-month share price average, it said in
the statement, adding that this was “in line with market
valuations” for banks in Romania and the region.  When it agreed to buy BCR in 2005, Erste pledged to list
BCR’s shares within three years to give the SIFs an exit option.
It agreed with the funds to delay that target date to October
because of adverse market conditions. Earlier this year, Erste
Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl said he would now rather
add to his 69.4 percent stake than list.  The SIFs will waive their rights to request a listing of
Romania’s biggest bank by assets and to special dividends,
according to the agreement. The four SIFs are SIF Banat-Crisana
SA, SIF Transilvania SA, SIF Muntenia SA and SIF Oltenia SA. The
fifth fund, SIF Moldova SA, also has the possibility to enter
into the same agreement, Erste said.  The value of the transaction could rise to 543 million
euros under an agreement with all the five funds, Erste said
today in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions.  SIF Moldova may also consider selling its stake in BCR,
pending a shareholders’ approval on Sept. 23 or Sept. 24, Chief
Executive Officer Costel Ceocea said in a phone interview today.  SIF Banat-Crisana’s executive board said in a statement to
the Bucharest bourse today that it deemed the transaction
favorable for the fund, while SIF Muntenia said the transaction
is pending shareholders’ approval at a meeting on Sept. 21 or
Sept. 22.  Property Funds  The SIFs originate from Romania’s five Private Property
Funds, established when parliament adopted the country’s first
privatization law in 1990. The law split most of the state’s
property among the State Ownership Fund, which had 70 percent,
and Romanian citizens, who received the remaining 30 percent.  Erste bought its initial stake in BCR from the Romanian
government, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
and the  World Bank , while the SIFs and BCR staff retained their
shares. The Vienna-based lender bought out about 7 percent held
by the employees in 2006 and started a secondary listing of
Erste’s stock at the Bucharest exchange in 2008.  The cash portion of the deal will be paid from retained
earnings, Erste said, adding that the deal will have a maximum
negative impact on the bank’s capital ratios of 0.1 percent
after it issues 16 million new shares from existing capital for
the stock swap. Erste’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of
financial strength, stood at 8 percent at the end of June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  