-- 
Heston Blumenthal Triumphs, Ramsay Loses in Zagat London Guide

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-09-14T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/heston-blumenthal-triumphs-ramsay-loses-in-zagat-london-restaurant-guide.html
Dinner by  Heston Blumenthal  was
today named London’s best new restaurant by the Zagat Guide,
beating competition from other leading chefs in a year when the
cost of eating out jumped 6.3 percent, the most in a decade.  Gordon Ramsay  Restaurant lost the top place for popularity,
beaten by the Wolseley, which came third last year and also
leapfrogged J Sheekey. The Ledbury held onto the title as best
for food, which it took from Gordon Ramsay last year.  The cost of a meal for one rose to 43.40 pounds ($68.68)
from 40.84 pounds a year earlier, yet diners ate out more often,
doing so an average 2.4 times a week, compared with 2.2 times.
That’s the first increase in three years. Tim Zagat, who heads
the guide, said there was still value to be found.  “Having observed London dining for many years, it is clear
that there has never been a better time to eat out,” Zagat,
chief executive of New York-based Zagat Survey, said today in an
e-mailed release. “Almost every neighborhood has a wealth of
choices for great food at excellent prices.”  Google Inc. (GOOG)  acquired Zagat Survey last week, adding
features designed to boost advertising revenue from local
businesses.  Mountain View , California-based Google, the world’s
largest Internet-search company, announced the purchase on Sept.
9 and didn’t disclose terms of the transaction.  Zagat’s findings follow the release last month of the
London-based Harden’s Guide, which also named the Ledbury best
for food. The Ledbury’s chef is Newcastle, Australian-born Brett Graham. During riots last month, the restaurant was attacked by
robbers, who were repelled by staff.  (Harden’s said the cost of a meal for two in restaurants in
its guide jumped 11 percent to more than 90 pounds.)  Blumenthal’s best-newcomer award looked like a triumph over
chef Jason Atherton, who opened Pollen Street Social this year.
Zagat said after the announcment this morning that Pollen Street
Social was too late to be included. Atherton beat Blumenthal in 
the Good Food Guide last month.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 