-- 
EU Sells Bailout Bonds at Premium to German, Finnish Debt

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-14T14:55:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/eu-sells-bailout-bonds-at-yield-premium-to-german-finnish-debt.html
The European Union sold 5 billion
euros ($6.85 billion) of 10-year Portugal rescue bonds at a
yield premium to the debt of the region’s top-rated nations.  The  European Financial Stabilisation Mechanism  priced the
AAA rated securities to yield 20 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate, according to a banker with knowledge of the
sale, giving the bond a yield of about 2.7 percent. That
compares with 1.8 percent on similar-maturity German government
debt, 2.3 percent on Finnish bonds and 2.6 percent for French
sovereign notes.  The EFSM, which is run by the EU’s 27-nation executive arm,
has already raised 19.1 billion euros from bonds this year to
fund the rescues of Portugal and Ireland and finance loans to
 Romania . Concern that  Greece  may default and  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis will infect other countries has roiled bond markets
and driven up yields on the region’s peripheral government debt.  The EU is selling a “very high-rated, low-risk bond with a
diffuse revenue basis which will sell like hotcakes,”  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank
International in  London , said before the bonds were priced.  The yield on the EFSM bonds is still less than that of the
EU’s riskier nations. Italian 10-year debt, which is rated Aa2
by Moody’s Investors Service, yields 5.6 percent, while Spanish
bonds due in 10 years, also graded Aa2 by the rating company,
yield 5.3 percent. Similar-maturity Italian bond yields earlier
climbed to 5.77 percent, the highest since Aug. 5.  Wider Spread  The EFSM last issued bonds in May, including a 4.75
billion-euro offering of 3.5 percent notes due 2021 that were
priced at 14 basis points more than swaps, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The EU’s other bailout fund, the European
Financial Stability Facility, is overseen by euro-area
governments.  European Commission spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  in Brussels
didn’t comment on the terms of the sale. The transaction is was
managed by  Barclays Capital , BNP Paribas SA, Commerzbank AG,
HSBC Holdings Plc and UBS AG.  Relative yields on corporate debt have widened amid
mounting concern Europe’s economic recovery is stuttering. The
extra yield investors demand to hold investment-grade European
company bonds relative to the swap rate jumped 87 basis points
since the end of July to 227, the highest since July 2009,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  