-- 
EU Trade Chief De Gucht Reveals a Passion for Art: Interview

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-09-14T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/eu-trade-chief-de-gucht-reveals-a-passion-for-art-interview.html
“I like this,” says Karel  De Gucht , the European Union’s trade commissioner, as he admires an
AK-47 assault rifle bristling with rusty nails.  The EU’s senior trade negotiator is in London snatching a
quick tour of  Tate Modern  between meetings. De Gucht likes art,
and “Fetish VI” by Johannesburg-based Michael MacGarry has
caught his eye. “Africa has a lively art scene, if not good
infrastructure and governance,” says the former deputy prime
minister of  Belgium  and law professor, moving purposely from
work to work.  The silver-haired commissioner, 57, is a stocky, combative
presence in a gray pinstripe suit and a loosened blue paisley
tie. Over the years he has collected as he has traveled. While
visiting  Africa , he bought work by Tanzanian artist George
Lilanga, who also designed scarves for Hermes.  He’s particularly proud of a Masai robe made out of bark
that he snapped up in an African market under some cheap tourist
trinkets.  “I paid less for that than the price of the artworks on
top of it,” De Gucht says with a grin.  He strides past the concrete space recently occupied by Ai Wei Wei’s “Sunflower Seeds” installation. “That was a
wonderful piece by a brave man,” he says. The dissident artist
was released in June after being detained by the Chinese
authorities for more than two months. De Gucht met Commerce
Minister Chen Deming in Beijing in July to encourage deeper
trading links between  China  and the EU.  Chinese Model  “People think China doesn’t have any weaknesses or
problems,” says De Gucht, who has a reputation for airing
forthright views. “Their golden age won’t go on forever. Sooner
or later they’ll have to switch to another model of development
and over time they won’t be able to sustain the restrictiveness
of their political system.”  The commissioner also has his doubts about some of the
Chinese art on which wealthy Western collectors have been
spending millions. “The prices paid on the American markets are
very high,” De Gucht says. “There are good artists like Ai.
Others are like a  production line . They might not prove to be
the best investment in 20 years.”  In between rounds of trade talks, he tries to find time to
visit exhibitions and commercial events such as  Art Basel  and
the  Foire Internationale d’Art Contemporain  in Paris.  What would he buy if he wasn’t a politician and had the
spending power of a billionaire collector? “Maybe a  Jean-Michel Basquiat , or an early Flemish painting, or an Anish Kapoor,” he
says. “Wire me the money and I’ll tell you.”  Miro Print  The commissioner is just in time to catch the last week of
the Tate Modern’s Joan Miro retrospective. He lingers in front
of a minimalist blue abstract made by the Spanish surrealist in
the 1930s. “I have a Miro,” he says. “I bought a print by him
in Paris in 1980 to celebrate becoming a member of the  European
Parliament .”  De Gucht remains upbeat about the 27-state EU, even amid
the continuing sovereign-debt woes. “I recently took part in a
debate in  France ,” the commissioner says. “People were too
pessimistic. The EU still has an economy that is almost three
times as big as China’s. Companies are in much better shape than
they were in 2008. Sure, we have too much debt. It’s just going
to take time.” He looks at his watch. The next appointment
beckons.  He was appointed EU trade commissioner in February 2010,
having been in charge of Development and Humanitarian Aid since
July 2009. De Gucht is currently representing the EU in 10
separate sets of negotiations. The latest round of talks to
secure a free-trade agreement with Ukraine starts on Sept. 19.  “Sometimes it almost overwhelms me,” he says. This is
why, when he can, he takes time out to see Miro at the Tate or
Kapoor at the  Grand Palais  in Paris. “Art reconnects me with
life,” says De Gucht. With that remark, he tightens his tie and
resumes his whirlwind schedule of meetings.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in  London  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 