-- 
Stocks, Euro Extend Advance as Germany, France Confirm Support for Greece

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-14T23:24:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/euro-declines-for-fifth-day-as-asia-stocks-oil-fall-on-european-debt-risk.html
Stocks rallied, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index higher for a third day, and the euro
extended gains as German and French leaders expressed support
for  Greece  to remain in the euro monetary union and speculation
grew that China may help  Europe ’s most-indebted nations.  The S&P 500 gained 1.4 percent to close at 1,188.68, while
its December futures slid less than 0.1 percent as of 7:21 p.m.
in  New York . The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 1.5 percent. The
euro rose 0.6 percent to $1.3755. Ten-year Treasury yields fell
one basis point to 1.98 percent. Oil futures fell 1.4 percent to
$88.91 a barrel after an increase in fuel inventories and crude
helped lead the S&P GSCI Index of commodities down 0.6 percent.  U.S. stocks and the euro extended gains as French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said they’re
convinced Greece will remain in the euro area, according to a
statement issued by Sarkozy after they spoke to Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  by telephone. Italian and Spanish
debt rose as  Zhang Xiaoqiang , a vice chairman of the National
Development and Reform Commission, said China is willing to buy
bonds of nations hit by the debt crisis.  “It’s a relief rally,”  John Carey , a Boston-based  money
manager  at Pioneer Investments, said in a telephone interview.
The firm oversees about $250 billion. “Over the last few days,
there had been speculation that  Germany  was about to pull the
plug and abandon the effort to keep Greece solvent and funded.
Stocks have been beaten up and there are bargains. On the
slightest bit of potentially good news, people tend to come in
and scoop up some of those bargains.”  Plunge Erased  The S&P 500 climbed to the highest level since Sept. 7,
with the three-day rally erasing a 2.7 percent slide on Sept. 9
that was triggered by reports Germany was preparing to shore up
banks in the event of a Greek default.  Industrial, consumer-discretionary and technology companies
climbed at least 1.6 percent collectively to lead gains among
all 10 of the main industry groups in the  S&P 500 . General
Electric Co., Home Depot Inc. and Walt Disney Co. rose at least
2.5 percent for the biggest gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , which surged 140.88 points, or 1.3 percent, to
11,246.73. Yahoo! Inc. climbed 2.1 percent as investor Third
Point LLC ramped up pressure on the company’s board, saying it
may add to its 5.2 percent stake and the All Things D blog
reported that potential buyers were preparing bids for the
company.  Greece’s Papandreou today committed to meet deficit-
reduction targets demanded as a condition for an international
bailout, according to statements distributed by Athens and Paris.
Sarkozy and Merkel “are convinced that the future of Greece is
in the euro zone,” the French statement said, easing concern
that the monetary union may fall apart. European equity markets
closed before the statement was released.  Austria Vote  The S&P 500 briefly erased gains and European stocks
trimmed their advance earlier as Austria’s finance ministry said
a parliamentary vote on an overhaul of the European Financial
Stability Facility bailout fund will be delayed. The
parliament’s finance committee rejected adding the item to the
agenda of a meeting today.  China  is willing to offer assistance, NDRC’s Zhang said
without elaborating, adding that Premier Wen Jiabao made similar
remarks earlier, according to a transcript distributed on the
planning agency’s website yesterday evening. Caijing magazine
attended the briefing and published an article earlier.  U.S. stocks rose even after the Commerce Department said
retail sales were unchanged in August, following a 0.3 percent
gain for July that was smaller than previously estimated. The
median forecast of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
a 0.2 percent rise. Another report from the Commerce Department
showed inventories rose a less-than-forecast 0.4 percent in July,
indicating companies are bracing for a slowdown in demand.  Credit Risk  A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk declined for a second
day from a two-year high. The Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 2.1 basis points to a mid-price of 129 basis points,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Concern the global economy will slip back into a recession
amid a worsening sovereign-debt crisis triggered an 18 percent
plunge in the S&P 500 between the end of April and Aug. 8. The
index has rebounded 6.2 percent since. The Stoxx 600 climbed 2.4
percent in two days after reaching a two-year low at the
beginning of the week. Developing nation equities entered a  bear
market  yesterday, with the MSCI Emerging Markets Index extending
its loss from its high for the year to 20 percent and slipping
another 1.2 percent today.  U.S. Pessimism  Pessimism about the economy has deepened and confidence in
both U.S. political parties has fallen, with only 20 percent
saying the country is on the right course. As little as 9
percent of Americans say they are confident the economy won’t
slide into a recession, according to a Bloomberg National Poll.  Ten-year Treasury yields reached an all-time low of 1.877
percent on Sept. 12 and gold futures rallied to a record
$1,923.70 an ounce on Sept. 6 as investors pursued assets
considered to be the most safe. Gold for December delivery lost
0.2 percent to $1,826.50 today.  Treasury 30-year bonds rose today after the U.S. sold $13
billion of the securities at a record low yield of 3.31 percent
amid bets the  Federal Reserve  will buy more bonds. The auction
was the last of three sales totaling $66 billion this week.
Existing 30-year bond yields lost six basis points to 3.27
percent.  Driving the Markets  “At the end of the day, Europe is still driving these
markets for the foreseeable future,” said Justin Lederer, an
interest-rate strategist at primary dealer Cantor Fitzgerald LP
in New York. “We might see small moves, but the European
problems have underscored these low rates.”  Almost six shares advanced for each that declined in the
Stoxx 600. Next Plc rallied 6.3 percent as the U.K.’s second-
largest clothing retailer reported a gain in first-half earnings
and said next year may not be as challenging for the industry.  Societe Generale SA,  France ’s third-largest bank by assets,
fell 2.9 percent after Moody’s Investors Service cut its long-
term debt rating by one level.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, which was kept on
review for a possible cut, lost 3.9 percent.  Oil, Gasoline  Crude oil declined after the U.S. government reported that
fuel inventories climbed, demand dropped and retail sales
stalled in the world’s biggest oil-consuming country. Futures
decreased as much as 2.2 percent after the Energy Department
said gasoline supplies rose 1.94 million barrels last week, the
biggest gain since June. Fuel use fell 3.8 percent. Gasoline for
October delivery lost 0.6 percent to $2.7258 a gallon on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  Societe Generale went “underweight” on commodities,
saying the asset class is “in the danger zone.”  “Prices of cyclically sensitive commodity prices, such as
crude oil and copper, have held up well over recent weeks
despite the recent deceleration in economic activity, and we
believe that this should contribute to a meaningful drop,” the
French bank said in its cross-asset research report.  Societe
Generale (GLE)  is recommending investors position for higher gold
prices and lower  oil prices .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  