-- 
Europe Needs Its Own TARP as Debt Crisis Deepens, Marathon Says

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-09-14T23:14:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/europe-needs-its-own-tarp-as-debt-crisis-deepens-marathon-says.html
Europe  will be the “mother lode”
of distressed investing as the region seeks to avert defaults by
Greece, Ireland and Portugal that may leave its banks $500
billion short of capital, according to Marathon Asset Management
LP’s Bruce Richards.  Europe’s leaders will need to pump as much as $400 billion
into bank balance sheets through a measure similar to the
Troubled Assets Relief Program in the U.S. as it seeks to stem
the crisis of confidence that is pushing borrowing costs of
countries including Italy and  Spain  to euro-era records,
Richards said yesterday at a conference in  New York  organized by
CNBC and Institutional Investor.  “What’s really required is a TARP for Europe,” said
Richards, who runs the $10 billion New York-based hedge fund.
“The banking system in Europe is under-capitalized by as much
as $500 billion today, and that’s if things don’t get worse.”
The most banks may be able to raise in  equity capital markets 
during the next 12 to 18 months is $100 billion, he said.  TARP, a $700 billion program, was started in 2008 to
provide capital injections to banks after the collapse of the
U.S. housing market and the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  The cost of protecting against defaults by European banks
soared to records this week amid concerns that they aren’t
holding enough capital to cushion against losses from plunging
government bond prices.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index, linked to the senior
debt of 25 banks and insurers in Europe including  France ’s
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, jumped to an end-of-day
record of 314 basis points on Sept. 12 and has more than doubled
since the end of June, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  ‘Come Clean’  The measure fell 29 basis points to 285 as German and
French leaders expressed support for  Greece  to remain in the
euro monetary union.  Banks “haven’t come clean” on the value of Greek debt
that they’re holding,” Boaz Weinstein, founder of the $4.2
billion investment firm Saba Capital Management LP, said on the
panel. “There are plenty of European banks that have Greek debt
marked at or near par,” he said, adding that it’s preventing
investors from having the confidence to invest in the
institutions.  Saba has bought one-year Greek debt at 38 cents on the
dollar, a price he said factors in at least a 75 percent chance
of default, Weinstein said.  Stemming the plunge in government debt prices may cost
European governments and the  International Monetary Fund  between
$2 trillion and $3 trillion and will require a restructuring of
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal , Marathon’s Richards said.  “You need to have a line in the sand,” he said. “You’re
not going to risk Spain or Italy or  Belgium . You need a big
enough war chest of capital to do that.”  Marathon told investors in mid-June that it’s evaluating
the purchase of portfolios of $1 billion or more of real estate
and corporate loans from banks in Portugal, Ireland, Spain, the
U.K. and Italy as they are forced to sell debt to raise capital,
according to a presentation to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  