-- 
Euro Strengthens as Merkel, Sarkozy Support Greek Efforts on Budget, Debt

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-09-14T21:13:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/euro-reverses-drop-versus-dollar-yen-strengthens-0-3-percent-to-1-3724.html
The euro rose against the majority
of its most-traded counterparts after French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said  Greece  should
remain in the union, damping concerns of turmoil in the region.  The 17-nation currency extended its gains against the
dollar after Greece reaffirmed commitment to its budget plan
following a conference call among the leaders of Germany,  France 
and Greece. The yen approached a post-World War II record
against the dollar after U.S. retail sales unexpectedly
stagnated in August, increasing concern the nation’s economic
recovery is faltering.  “Sarkozy and Merkel are saying they’re convinced that
Greece should remain in the euro zone and that’s giving it some
support,” said  John Doyle , a strategist in Washington at
currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc. “Greece
reiterating that they’re determined to meet their budget plan is
a good thing. They’re just words at this point, but that’s why
we’re seeing the euro pop against the dollar.”  The euro rose 0.6 percent to $1.3755 at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
after rising the most on an intraday basis, 0.8 percent, since
Sept. 7. The currency added 0.1 percent to 105.39 yen. The yen
strengthened 0.4 percent to 76.62 per dollar.  Greek Talks  Sarkozy and Merkel are “convinced” Greece should remain
in the euro, Sarkozy’s office said in a statement today after
the leaders met with Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou .
Papandreou committed to meet deficit-reduction targets demanded
as a condition for an international bailout, according to
statements distributed by Athens and Paris.  “The president of the republic and the chancellor have
underscored that it is more than ever indispensable to fully
implement the decisions adopted on July 21 by the heads of state
and government of the euro zone to assure the stability of the
euro zone,” the statement said.  The yen strengthened for a third straight day against the
dollar, approaching its record of 75.95 reached Aug. 19.  Bank of Japan  board member Ryuzo Miyao said the central
bank is ready to take “appropriate” action as needed to
support the economy amid worries that the yen will stay strong.  “An area of concern is that the strong yen is taking
root,” Miyao, 47, said in a speech in Hakodate, northern  Japan .
If the dollar and euro remain weak against the yen on sovereign-
debt worries, “concern about the hollowing-out of domestic
industries will increase,” he said.  Yen Sales  Japan last intervened in the  currency market , selling yen
to try to curb its climb, on Aug. 4, when it touched 76.97 to
the dollar.  The Japanese currency has appreciated 3.6 percent this year
against the currencies of its nine developed-nation
counterparts, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indices. The Swiss franc has appreciated the most among
the currencies, rising 4.5 percent. The euro has risen 0.2
percent and the dollar has lost 2.8 percent.  The euro was boosted earlier after European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  said he is close to proposing options on
joint euro-area bond sales, putting officials in Brussels on a
collision course with  Germany .  “The commission will soon present options for the
introduction of euro bonds,” Barroso told the European
Parliament in Strasbourg, France, today, prompting applause from
lawmakers who have backed the idea. “Some of these options
could be implemented within the terms of the current treaty;
others would require treaty change.”  Euro Funds  European Union leaders in July proposed expanding the role
of the 440 billion euro ($602 billion) EFSF -- the fund that has
helped bail out Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  -- to buy bonds in
the secondary markets, aid troubled banks and offer lines of
credit. The plan will go into effect after the parliaments of
member nations approve it.  Austria’s parliament’s finance committee rejected adding
the item to the agenda of a meeting today. The parliament will
call a special meeting for the finance committee that will have
the item on the agenda, according to Harald Waiglein, a
spokesman for the ministry.  “It feels like the euro leaders really want to make the
Greek deal happen,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of
research at online currency trader GFT Forex in New York. “If
they can avoid a Greek bankruptcy, it effectively lifts that
black cloud over the euro. The moment traders sensed that the
bankruptcy wasn’t imminent, they started buying up the euro on a
short-term basis.”  China  View  Caijing magazine reported that China is still willing to
buy bonds of nations hit by the debt crisis, citing  Zhang Xiaoqiang , a vice chairman of the National Development and
Reform Commission.  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  signaled developed nations
should cut deficits and create jobs rather than relying on his
country to bail out the world economy. The European Union and
the U.S. should open their markets in return for investments,
Wen said today.  Australia ’s currency weakened against the greenback after
the statistics bureau released new methodology for calculating
seasonally adjusted inflation that indicated the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia’s core measures may have been lower last quarter.  The Aussie slid 0.3 percent to $1.0283, after earlier
reaching $1.0178, the least since Aug. 11. It dropped 0.7
percent to 78.80 yen.  U.S. retail sales were unchanged in August, following a 0.3
percent gain for July that was smaller than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast of 83 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was a 0.2 percent rise.  “What we need to see in order to rescue the market from a
reactive course is a clear trend in hard economic data, and
retail sales definitely wasn’t there,” said Andrew Cox, a
currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  