-- 
European Industrial Production Rebounds

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-09-14T09:05:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/europe-industrial-production-rebounded-in-july-led-by-germany.html
European  industrial production 
rebounded in July led by surging German output after the biggest
drop in more than a year in the previous month.  Production in the 17-nation euro area advanced 1 percent
from June, when it fell 0.8 percent, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. That’s the biggest
gain since November 2010. Economists forecast a gain of 1.5
percent, the median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
showed. In the year, output advanced 4.2 percent.  European manufacturers have helped bolster the region’s
expansion as a worsening debt crisis forced governments to cut
spending, eroding  consumer confidence .  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW)  Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said on Sept. 8
that the German luxury carmaker’s factories are “working at
full tilt” partly on stronger demand in markets such as  China .  “We’ll see increasing signs of economic weakness,” said
Gerd Hassel, an economist at BHF Bank AG in Frankfurt. “The
euro-region economy will probably fail to expand in the third
and fourth quarters while growth rates in emerging markets have
weakened but will remain relatively solid.”  The euro was little lower against the dollar, trading at
$1.3650 at 10:04 a.m. in  London , down 0.2 percent on the day.  In  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, which has powered the
region’s economic expansion, industrial output surged 4.1
percent from June, when it fell 0.8 percent, today’s report
showed. French production advanced 1.6 percent, while Italy
showed a 0.7 percent drop. In Spain, output also decreased.  ‘Downside Risks’  Euro-region growth may weaken to 1.3 percent in 2012 from
1.6 percent this year, the  European Central Bank  said on Sept.
8. It had previously forecast the economy to expand 1.9 percent
and 1.7 percent this year and next, respectively.  A drop in  government spending  and slowing exports were
among the reasons why economic growth eased to 0.2 percent in
the second quarter from 0.8 percent in the previous three
months. ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet, who will retire at
the end of October, said on  Sept. 8  that he expects the euro-
area economy to expand “moderately, subject to particularly
high uncertainty and intensified downside risks.”  Group of Seven finance chiefs vowed on Sept. 9 to support
banks and buoy growth as Europe’s debt crisis roiled financial
markets and threatened a global slump. The Greek Cabinet earlier
this month approved additional measures to meet the country’s
deficit targets this year and next to prevent a default and help
restore investor confidence.  Recession Risk  With governments from Spain to Ireland cutting spending to
plug their budget holes, manufacturers have relied on faster-
growing markets to bolster sales. BMW,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-
Benz and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi are forecasting record sales this
year on increasing demand in China and the U.S. Audi said last
month that it is hiring staff to boost car production.  Euro-region output of capital goods jumped 3 percent from
June, when it fell 1.5 percent, today’s report showed. Energy
production slipped 0.8 percent and output of intermediate goods
rose 0.8 percent. Production of durable consumer goods advanced
2.9 percent, according to the statistics office.  BHF Bank’s Hassel said the euro-region economy may expand
at less than half the pace the ECB projected for 2012, or 0.5
percent, forcing the central bank to keep borrowing costs at 1.5
percent after two increases in the benchmark this year.  “It’s not enough reason for the ECB to lower  interest
rates  but increases won’t play a role either,” he said.
“There’s still a 50 to 50 chance of a renewed recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  