-- 
Euro Bonds Are Wrong Fix in Half-Way Union: Riccardo Barbieri

-- B y   R i c c a r d o   B a r b i e r i
-- 
2011-09-14T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/euro-bonds-are-wrong-fix-in-flawed-union-commentary-by-riccardo-barbieri.html
A number of European politicians
and economists are hailing the euro-bond proposal as the only
viable solution to the region’s sovereign-debt dilemma.  In their view, joint issuance of euro bonds would take
advantage of the creditworthiness of core European Union
countries such as  Germany  without throwing their deficit and
debt ratios out of whack. Yes, goes the argument, there are a
few technical hurdles, but they can be easily overcome.  What proponents of euro bonds ignore is that, unless the
initiative stems from a broader process leading to economic and
fiscal union, it risks taking the euro area into an even more
disruptive phase in the future. Euro bonds would buy the weaker
European countries time to complete their economic and fiscal
adjustments. However, if these adjustments failed, or if the
appetite for reforms and fiscal austerity waned, the weaker
countries would have to return to issuing domestic bonds at
prohibitively high yields and may ultimately default. If they
were also required to post official reserves and other state
assets to secure the euro bonds, they would risk losing
everything should a more serious crisis strike.  For the fiscally sounder countries, the risk is that the
guarantees on euro bonds will become their liabilities, thus
causing their own government debt to balloon. Political and
economic tensions between euro-area countries could arise from
defaults and demands for reparations. And even before we got
there, the rating companies may decide that euro bonds warrant a
downgrade of the existing debt of the AAA countries.  Red and Blue  The advantages and risks of euro bonds depend on how they
are structured. One of the proposals getting a lot of attention
was formulated in 2010 by economists Jacques Delpla, an adviser
to French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , and  Jakob von Weizsacker ,
an economist at Bruegel, a Belgian think tank. They envision
euro-area countries issuing two classes of bonds, which they
labeled “blue” and “red.”  Blue bonds would be jointly backed by the euro-area nations
for up to 60 percent of the gross domestic product of the
region. Additional borrowing would have to be financed by red
bonds, which would be separately issued by each country and
would be junior to the blue ones. Red bonds issued by the
fiscally weaker countries would carry higher yields than blue
bonds. Red and blue bonds would gradually replace existing
government bonds throughout the euro region. Each country’s
ability to access euro bonds would be regulated by an oversight
board on the basis of fiscal and macroeconomic benchmarks.  Depth, Liquidity  Over time, as the stock of blue bonds outstanding rose
toward 60 percent of the region’s GDP, the euro-bond market
would approach the size of the U.S. Treasury market, thus
achieving greater levels of depth and liquidity than European
markets have today. This would lower bond yields. The relatively
low debt ratio covered by the blue bonds, their senior status
and the risk diversification would secure a AAA rating for these
securities. On the other hand, the red bonds issued by the
weaker euro-area countries would probably have an even lower
rating than their existing bonds.  Implementing the euro-bond project may be more difficult
than suggested by its proponents. First, the stock of  government
securities  outstanding is significantly smaller than suggested
by total debt ratios. For instance, German federal government
securities are equal to only about 40 percent of GDP. Germany,
as well as the Netherlands and  Finland , are unlikely to support
euro-bond issuance in excess of that level.  In addition, joint issuance of bonds would amount to an
implicit transfer from the stronger to the weaker countries. The
more creditworthy countries would demand some type of offsetting
compensation, and doing so would be a contentious affair. The
speed at which member countries would be allowed to issue blue
bonds would also pose problems given countries’ different annual
borrowing needs.  Weaker Countries  Although the blue-red bond proposal has been strongly
backed by Italian politicians such as Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti , it entails significant risks for the fiscally weaker
countries. For one thing, the project explicitly envisages the
possibility of defaults on the red bonds -- something that would
make high-debt countries like Italy more vulnerable. Second,
existing longer-maturity bonds would become riskier because the
market would anticipate these bonds being rolled over as red
bonds, once the room to issue blue bonds runs up against the 60
percent ceiling. This would inflict losses on banks, insurance
companies and pension funds.  If a weak country didn’t restore fiscal balance, it would
run a high risk of defaulting either during or immediately after
the issuance of the blue bonds because investors would shun its
red bonds as excessively risky. Any default would be
particularly damaging if blue bonds were backed by collateral
such as a nation’s gold and currency reserves. Once such a
country defaulted it would find itself with no remaining assets
to back International Monetary Fund loans and possibly have no
choice but to return to a national currency.  Germany’s Concern  To understand why Germany and other prudent countries
resist the euro-bond option, consider what could happen in the
event of a default by  Italy  and  Spain . Based on the 60 percent-
of-GDP version of the plan and assuming a 50 percent recovery,
the cost for Germany would be 216 billion euros ($300 billion),
or 8.4 percent of its GDP. This would have traumatic economic
and political repercussions. Anti-euro and nationalistic
political movements in northern  Europe  would gain support,
threatening the continent’s political equilibrium.  Proponents of the currency union have been arguing that
only a crisis would spur a move toward fiscal and political
union. Given the severity of the debacle now unfolding, we can
only hope they are right. However, on their own euro bonds look
like the wrong fix for a failing currency union.  (Riccardo Barbieri is chief European economist at Mizuho
International. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Riccardo Barbieri at  riccardo.barbieri@uk.mizuho-sc.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 