-- 
European Stocks Gain for Second Day on China Support Speculation

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-09-14T16:33:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/europe-stock-futures-drop-on-bank-downgrades-china-reluctance.html
European stocks rose for a second
day amid speculation China may still buy the region’s government
bonds even after Premier Wen Jiabao said indebted countries must
not rely on bailouts.  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  soared the most in 13 years on a report
that Italy’s biggest arms company may sell railway units to
General Electric Co.  Next Plc (NXT)  rallied to a record as earnings
increased.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA slid 2.9 percent after Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded the French bank’s credit rating.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index advanced 1.5 percent
to 224.17 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The gauge erased an
earlier loss of as much as 1 percent after Caijing magazine
reported that China is still willing to buy bonds of nations hit
by the debt crisis, citing  Zhang Xiaoqiang , a vice chairman of
the National Development and Reform Commission.  The comments from Zhang “may have eased worries about the
European debt crisis,” said Alexander Kraemer, a cross-asset
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “We may also see
short covering ahead of the triple witching on Friday” when
futures and options on European equity indexes expire.  National indexes rose in 16 of the 18 western European
countries. Germany’s DAX advanced 3.4 percent, the U.K.’s FTSE
100 gained 1 percent and France’s CAC 40 climbed 1.9 percent.  European stocks almost erased their gains in afternoon
trading as Austria delayed a parliamentary vote on an overhaul
of the European bailout fund, causing confusion among investors.
They later rebounded.  Debt Crisis  The Stoxx 600 has plunged 23 percent from this year’s peak
in February as the debt crisis spread from Greece to the larger
economies of  Italy , Spain and France. Greek Prime Minister
George Papandreou is holding a conference call with German
Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy
today amid increasing speculation that Greece will default.
Spain is scheduled to sell debt tomorrow, after demand fell at
an auction by Italy yesterday.  “A Greek default is not going to ripple the same way and
in the same magnitude that we saw in 2008,” Paul Chew, head of
investments at Brown Advisory in Baltimore, said in an interview
in London. “We got into the current situation in a much better
state than in 2007. That makes us confident that any crisis in
Greece is not going to snowball.”  Wen, speaking at the  World Economic Forum  in Dalian,  China ,
signaled that developed nations should cut deficits and create
jobs rather than relying on China to bail out the world economy.
Stocks gained in the U.S. on Sept. 12 after the Financial Times
reported that Italy aims to sell “significant” quantities of
bonds and stakes in strategic companies to China.  ‘Houses in Order’  “Countries must first put their own houses in order,” Wen
said. “Developed countries must take responsible fiscal and
monetary policies. What is most important now is to prevent the
further spread of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe.”  Finance ministers from Brazil, Russia, India and China will
meet on Sept. 22 to discuss ways to help Europe overcome its
debt crisis, R. Gopalan, secretary in the Department of Economic
Affairs in the  finance ministry , said in  New Delhi .  A Commerce Department report today showed U.S. retail sales
unexpectedly stagnated in August, falling short of an average
forecast for a 0.2 percent increase in a Bloomberg survey of 83
economists.  Finmeccanica Jumps  Finmeccanica soared 17 percent to 5.26 euros, the biggest
gain since January 1998. The company may be close to an
agreement to sell its AnsaldoBreda train-making division to
General Electric, il Tirreno reported, citing a city of Pistoia
politician, Alessio Bartolomei.  Ansaldo STS SpA (STS)  jumped 20
percent to 6.62 euros as the newspaper said GE may also be
interested in the railway-technology unit, citing no one.  Finmeccanica said it’s still reviewing its strategy for the
transportation business and it plans to communicate with the
market after a review has been completed.  Next rallied 6.3 percent to 2,483 pence, the highest price
since at least 1988, as the U.K.’s second-largest clothing
retailer reported a jump in first-half earnings and said next
year may not be as challenging for the industry.  Debenhams Plc (DEB) ,
the U.K.’s biggest department-store retailer, rose 7 percent to
56.1 pence.  BP Plc (BP/)  climbed 3.5 percent to 395.1 pence after a U.S.
investigation into last year’s explosion at the Deepwater
Horizon oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico spread the blame between
the company and contractors.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , which owned the rig, rose 2 percent to 50
Swiss francs in Zurich.  Sonova Soars  Sonova Holding AG (SOON) , Europe’s biggest hearing aid-maker,
surged 14 percent to 75.90 francs after receiving approval from
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to resume sales of the
HiRes 90K cochlear implant following a recall.  Automakers had the biggest gain of 19 industry groups in
the Stoxx 600, soaring 5.1 percent as a group. Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG rose 6 percent to 55.07 euros and Volkswagen AG
rallied 5.1 percent to 108.50 euros.  Societe Generale, France’s third-largest bank by assets,
fell 2.9 percent to 17.39 euros after Moody’s Investors Service
cut its long-term debt rating by one level.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,
which was kept on review for a possible cut, lost 3.9 percent to
26.90 euros.  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , the third-largest Swedish lender and the
biggest bank in the Baltic countries, declined 5.6 percent to
73.15 kronor after halting share buybacks due to the
“intensified financial anxiety in Europe.”  “We see today no altered risk in our portfolio but the
perception of our buyback program is not supporting Swedbank’s
brand in the current market situation,” Chief Executive Officer
Michael Wolf said in a statement today. “On my recommendation.
the board have decided to halt further repurchases until the
market situation becomes clearer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  