-- 
Ex-SAP Unit Pleads Guilty to Illegal Oracle Downloads

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-09-14T23:36:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/ex-sap-unit-pleads-guilty-to-illegal-oracle-downloads-to-pay-20-million.html
SAP AG (SAP) ’s defunct TomorrowNow
software-maintenance unit pleaded guilty to charges related to
unauthorized downloading of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  software and agreed to
pay a $20 million penalty.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton accepted the plea by
the closed SAP unit today in Oakland,  California . TomorrowNow
was charged on Sept. 8 with 11 counts of unauthorized computer
access and one count of criminal copyright infringement.  “No other SAP entity, including SAP AG or SAP America,
will face charges arising out of the office’s investigation,”
James Dever, an SAP spokesman, said of the Justice Department
probe in an e-mailed statement. The parent company is paying the
fine, he said.  SAP, the world’s largest maker of  business software , was
sued by Oracle, its biggest competitor, in 2007 over the
downloads. Waldorff, Germany-based SAP shut the Bryan, Texas-
based unit in 2008 and didn’t contest at trial that it was
liable for infringement by TomorrowNow, which offered software
upgrades and fixes to customers who used products made by
companies acquired by Oracle.  Oracle claimed at trial that SAP was trying to steal its
customers and avoid paying a license fee for the software.
Oracle’s expert testified that SAP was liable for as much as
$1.7 billion in damages.  Maximum Penalty  The maximum penalty for each count of unauthorized computer
access that TomorrowNow faced is $500,000 or as much as twice
the loss or gain caused by the conduct, Hamilton said.  The $20 million fine reflects “the seriousness of the
conduct” and is appropriate “especially in the light of the
size of TomorrowNow and the revenue it earned during its
existence,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Kyle Waldinger said at the
hearing.  The plea agreement included no restitution because those
damages would be accounted for in the civil case, he said.  SAP said at trial that TomorrowNow never turned a profit
and had just tens of millions of dollars in revenue. Oracle lost
at most $19.3 million in profit from TomorrowNow’s actions, Greg Lanier, an attorney for SAP, said after the hearing.  “Oracle has spent the last four years uncovering SAP’s
massive copyright theft and SAP finally pleaded guilty in
federal court to criminal charges for its illegal scheme,” said
 Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, in an e-mail. She
declined to comment on the fine.  Individual Crimes  The plea agreement specifies that TomorrowNow will
cooperate with government probes of crimes individuals may have
committed in connection with the charges brought against the
company, Hamilton said during the hearing.  Lanier said he doesn’t know where the government
investigation stands or whether it is pursuing anyone. Waldinger
declined to comment after the hearing.  TomorrowNow still exists as a legal entity. It has fewer
than 10 employees in  Texas  who maintain computer files needed
for the civil court proceedings in the Oracle case, Lanier said.
At its peak, the company employed 160 people. There were about
30 left when it was shut, he said.  In the civil case, Hamilton last week threw out a jury’s
$1.3 billion verdict for Oracle against SAP. The judge called
the amount “grossly excessive,” and said Oracle could agree to
accept no more than $272 million in damages or retry its case.  Oracle asked Hamilton to put the case on hold until after
any appellate court reviews of her decision on damages,
according to a court filing yesterday.  The criminal case is U.S. v. TomorrowNow Inc., 11-00642,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  