-- 
SAP Former Unit ‘Expected’ to Plead Guilty to Oracle Downloads

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-09-14T19:16:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/ex-sap-unit-expected-to-plead-guilty-to-oracle-downloads-spokesman-says.html
SAP AG (SAP) ’s former TomorrowNow
software maintenance unit is “expected to plead guilty today”
to charges related to unauthorized downloading of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
software, an SAP spokesman said.  At a hearing scheduled for today in federal court in
Oakland,  California , the company is expected to enter the plea,
and an agreement between the closed unit and prosecutors
resolving the case will be unsealed, said Jim Dever, a spokesman
for Waldorff, Germany-based SAP, the world’s largest maker of
 business software .  TomorrowNow was charged Sept. 8 with 11 counts of
unauthorized computer access and one count of criminal copyright
infringement. The company will enter guilty pleas to all 12
counts pursuant to the plea agreement, federal prosecutors said
in a court filing. Reuters news agency reported that the company
will pay a $20 million fine. Dever declined to comment on the
terms of the plea agreement.  TomorrowNow entered a not guilty plea in court today. A
change-of-plea hearing is scheduled for later today.  SAP, which shut the Bryan, Texas-based unit in 2008, was
sued by Oracle in 2007 over the downloads. SAP didn’t contest
that it was liable for infringement by the company, which
offered software upgrades and fixes to customers who used
products made by companies that were acquired by Oracle.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton in Oakland last week
threw out a jury’s $1.3 billion damage award to Oracle in its
civil lawsuit against SAP. Hamilton called the amount “grossly
excessive,” and said Oracle could agree to accept no more than
$272 million in damages or retry its case.  The criminal case is U.S. v. TomorrowNow, 11-00642, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  