-- 
Apple IPad Data Was Given to PGR’s Fleishman, Samsung Witness Tells Jurors

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/ex-samsung-worker-says-he-gave-apple-ipad-data-to-fleishman.html
An ex-Samsung Electronics Co.
manager, testifying at the insider-trader trial of Primary
Global Research LLC executive James Fleishman, told jurors he
disclosed confidential shipping data for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPad
components.  Suk-Joo Hwang, who worked for 14 years at the U.S. division
of Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, told jurors yesterday in
federal court in New York after he was granted immunity from
prosecution by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who’s presiding
over the case.  Hwang said that during lunch at a restaurant in  Mountain
View ,  California , with Fleishman and a hedge  fund manager  he
identified as “Greg,” he gave them confidential information
about Samsung’s shipment of liquid crystal display screens it
was supplying to Apple. The iPad made its U.S. debut in April
2010, four months after the lunch.  “One particular thing I remember vividly was that I talked
about the shipment numbers of Apple, it was about iPad,” he
said. “This is in December 2009, before it came out with the
tablet PC, they didn’t know the name then, so I talked to them
about the tablet shipment estimates in that meeting.”  Expert Networking  Fleishman, of  Santa Clara , California, is charged with two
counts of conspiracy for facilitating a scheme in which
employees at public companies passed confidential information to
fund manager clients of Primary Global, also known as PGR, a
Mountain View-based expert-networking firm. He has pleaded not
guilty to the charges and faces as long as 25 years in prison if
convicted.  Samsung was a supplier for the iPad screens along with
 Seiko Epson Corp. (6724)  and LG Display Co., Hwang said. Assistant U.S.
Attorney Antonia Apps asked Hwang how Fleishman and the fund
manager reacted to the information he was sharing.  “They didn’t know about it,” Hwang said, adding that the
fund manager “was very excited.”  “In fact, I said, ‘Please, just keep this to yourself,’”
Hwang testified, lowering his voice for the jury and gesturing
downwardly with his right hand. “I remember after I said this,
James, he was nodding his head.”  ‘Freaked Out’  Hwang said that as soon as he spoke he realized that a man
at a nearby table was staring at him. He said he became
concerned the man was an Apple employee who’d overheard his
comments. He told jurors he turned his company badge around to
hide his name and Samsung logo.  “After I said it, I looked around,” Hwang said. “The
first thing I thought was ‘Wow, I said it too loud’ and then I
really freaked out.”  Hwang, who said he worked as a consultant for the PGR from
2004 to 2010, said he earned about $38,000 for his work as an
expert-networking consultant.  He said he grew concerned about being discovered as a leak
on Apple data. Soon after the lunch, Hwang said, he was told by
a colleague that Samsung had lost a supply contract with Apple.  “I thought, ‘Oh that guy was an Apple guy and they found
out,’” Hwang said. “I was scared.”  FBI Agents  After he received a promotion in February 2010, Hwang
notified PGR executives that he wanted to stop working for them.
He said Primary Global officials told him they would allow him
to work anonymously and said they also offered to raise his
consultation fee from $200 an hour to $350.  Hwang agreed and worked for PGR until August 2010. He said
he was approached by  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agents in
October when they came to his home and asked him about his work
with PGR. He said he didn’t initially tell agents the truth
about his actions.  Hwang said he was fired by Samsung in June 2011 and said he
hasn’t been charged with any crimes. Under Rakoff’s order,
Hwang’s testimony can’t be used against him and he can only be
prosecuted if he commits perjury. His testimony continues today.  Chris Goodhart , a Samsung spokeswoman in  San Jose ,
California, declined to comment on Hwang’s testimony. Steve Dowling, a spokesman for the Cupertino, California-based Apple,
also declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Fleishman, 11-cr-00032, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 