-- 
Fastest-Growing European Bourse Targets Bonds to Spur Trading in Warsaw

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z
-- 
2011-09-15T14:42:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/fastest-growing-european-bourse-targets-bonds-to-spur-trading-in-warsaw.html
The Warsaw Stock Exchange , Europe’s
fastest-growing equity market, is seeking to boost corporate
bond trading by allowing banks for the first time to buy and
sell the securities without using a broker.  The bourse’s two-year-old  Catalyst bond market , with more
than 30 billion zloty ($9.5 billion) of debt, had 3.4 million
zloty of trades yesterday, compared with an average daily
turnover of 1.12 billion zloty in stocks this year. The amount
of trading in Polish non-state debt was less than 5 percent of
the transactions on the Istanbul Stock Exchange in the first
eight months of the year, according to data from the Federation
of European Securities Exchanges.  “Turnover is too small,” Warsaw bourse Chief Executive
Officer  Ludwik Sobolewski  said in an interview. He said a
proposal to let banks trade bonds was sent to the Finance
Ministry in July.  Sobolewski is pushing for increased bond trading after 144
companies listed on Poland’s sole equity market this year, more
than for all western European markets combined and second after
China among emerging countries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The market value of companies listed on Warsaw’s
state-controlled exchange, founded two decades ago after the
fall of communism, has grown to $147 billion, the third-biggest
among European developing nations after Russia and Turkey.  Warsaw Bond Trading  Warsaw trading of domestic, non-public sector bonds totaled
101 million euros ($139 million) in the first eight months of
the year, compared with 2.1 billion euros in Istanbul, according
to data from the Federation of European Securities Exchanges.  The Finance Ministry is analyzing the proposed changes to
the law and their compatibility with European Union regulations
and best practices of other countries in the bloc, it said in an
e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.  “The problem of the Polish corporate bond market is that
investors, for example banks, participate in debt offerings and
then hold the bonds till maturity, treating them like a loan,”
 Kamil Stolarski , a Warsaw-based analyst at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, said by phone. “It’s good that the exchange is
taking steps to improve liquidity on the market but in my
opinion not much will change soon.”  Higher profits from bank loans are hampering new bond
sales, Sobolewski said in the Sept. 13 interview at his office
in Warsaw.  ‘Product Diversification’  “I hope that increasing expectations, by companies seeking
broader product diversification, will gradually change the
situation,” he said.  The amount of corporate and municipal bonds rose 34 percent
to 78.5 billion zloty in the first half from a year earlier,
according to data from Fitch Ratings. That’s still 33 percent of
the total 237 billion zloty in corporate loans in Poland, data
from the country’s financial regulator showed.  Polish pension funds favor government debt and equities,
with non-government securities accounting for less than 10
percent of their total 226 billion zloty of assets at the end of
August, according to data from the financial regulator.
Investments in stocks stood at 76.2 billion zloty and government
debt 119.4 billion zloty.  Forty-three foreign companies from 20 countries are listed
in Warsaw, including 11 Ukrainian companies, and the market may
see the first listing by a Russian company, Sobolewski said.  Russian Development  Ukrainian and Russian companies “may arrive to the market
by end of this year,” he said. “Russia is something totally
new to us. It never happened before that Russian companies
considered the Warsaw capital market as a place for further
development.”  Valinor Public Ltd., a Russian agriculture producer, and
ViOil Holding SA of Ukraine postponed their Warsaw initial
public offerings in July, citing worsening market conditions.  The  benchmark WIG20 Index  jumped 3.1 percent to 2,277.59 at
4:35 p.m. in Warsaw, trimming its drop this year to 17 percent.
Poland’s government bonds have returned 5.14 percent in the
first eight months of this year, according to Bank of
America/Merrill Lynch index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  