-- 
Ferrari Proves Recession Proof as Ultra-Luxury Sells Out: Cars

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t ,   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r   a n d   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-14T22:01:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/ferrari-proves-recession-proof-as-ultra-luxury-sells-out-cars.html
Maserati SpA’s new sport-utility
vehicle was one of the most sought-after models at the Frankfurt
car show this week and Ferrari SpA predicted record sales as
executives said ultra-luxury remains recession-proof.  “If you go to the Ferrari stand, there aren’t any customers
worried about the recession,” Fiat Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  said at the International Motor Show. “The
last Ferrari customers I saw at the show weren’t crying.”  Fiat’s two upscale brands may help the Turin, Italy-based
carmaker weather a decline at its main business as Europe’s
credit crisis worsens. Even without the Kubang SUV, Maserati
aims to boost deliveries by almost eightfold to 45,000 cars in
2014 as it increases dealers by 150 percent worldwide.
Lamborghini SpA’s new Aventador model is sold out for 18 months
and Rolls-Royce Cars announced a 10 million-pound ($15.8
million) expansion at its Goodwood, England plant.  Ferrari expects to deliver 7,000 cars in 2011 on demand for
its first family car, the $356,000 four-seat FF that came to
market this year. Fiat’s most profitable unit plans to cap sales
at 7,000 going forward to maintain exclusivity. Ferrari targets
“significant” results this year after earnings before interest
and taxes rose 23 percent in 2010 to 302 million euros ($414
million) on revenue of 1.92 billion euros, Chairman Luca Cordero di Montezemolo said.  “I’m not worried because we have quality, exclusivity, a
strong brand and innovative technology,” Montezemolo said in an
interview when asked about the effect of the economic slowdown.  Mixed Fortunes  The ultra-luxury optimism stands in contrast to concern
voiced from volume carmakers that a worsening debt crisis in
 Europe  is prompting consumers to rein in spending. PSA Peugeot
Citroen CEO Philippe Varin said this week that Europe is facing
a possible recession, while  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said sales in the
region next year will be little changed.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, is the best performer in the Stoxx 600 Automobiles
& Parts Index this year. BMW stock has slipped 6.4 percent,
compared with a 24 percent loss for the index. Fiat, which also
owns Chrysler Group LLC in the U.S., is the worst performer on
the index, with a 42 percent decline.  Sales of the main high-end European luxury brands --
Maserati, Lamborghini, Ferrari, Bentley, Rolls-Royce and  Aston
Martin  -- will rise 19 percent this year to 28,090 vehicles, and
gain another 13 percent in 2012, according to a forecast from
industry analyst IHS Automotive.  “The rich have gotten richer and the number of
millionaires in emerging countries is really growing so the
demographic trend is very positive” for the ultra-luxury
carmakers, said Erich Hauser, a London-based Credit Suisse
automotive analyst. “Things would have to get very nasty before
they face a problem.”  Rolls-Royce Record  Rolls-Royce, owned by BMW, expects in 2011 to break last
year’s sales record of 2,711 cars, Chief Executive Torsten Mueller-Oetvoes said, adding that  China  may overtake the U.S. as
its top market.  The German executive said he’s ”optimistic” about the
prospects for the super-luxury segment and that his company so
far has not been affected by the slowdown. The ultra-premium
segment is likely to weather this downturn better than the
previous crisis, Mueller-Oetvoes said.  Along with the factory expansion, Rolls-Royce may boost its
dealerships to 100 from the current 85 and add a coupe version
of its best-selling Ghost model, he said. The carmaker debuted
an extended-wheelbase version of the Ghost in Frankfurt.  Lamborghini, owned by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , unveiled the 189,000-
euro Gallardo LP 570-4 Super Trofeo Stradale at the show, the
most powerful addition to the Gallardo series. The 570-
horsepower vehicle comes with matte black finish on the large
rear spoiler, engine hood and front air intakes and surges to
100 kilometers (62 miles) in 3.4 seconds.  Limited Edition  Deliveries of the model, which has a top speed of 320
kilometers per hour, will be confined to 150 and start in
December, Chief Executive Officer Stephan Winkelmann said in an
interview. The Volkswagen division also announced production of
the 1.6 million-euro Sesto Elemento. No more than 20 will be
built with deliveries due in early 2013.  Lamborghini sales may advance from last year’s 1,302 on the
back of the Aventador LP 700-4, which will hit showrooms in
October and is sold out for 18 months, Winkelmann said.  “The super-luxury market has been in steady recovery from
its low in 2009,” Winkelmann said in an interview, adding that
order books at Lamborghini are showing no declines. “We’re
aware that there are risks.”  Bentley Convertible  Bentley Motors Ltd., whose customers include  Queen Elizabeth II  and the Sultan of  Brunei , rolled out an updated
version of the Continental GTC convertible with deliveries of
the 575-horsepower model starting before the end of the year.  Powered by revamps of the Mulsanne and Continental models
announced over the past year, full-year deliveries may top the
7,000 mark which would mark a 40-percent gain on 2010, CEO
Wolfgang Duerheimer said in an interview.  An SUV that the Crewe, England-based VW unit is considering
may help more than double sales to 15,000 by about 2018, he
said.  “We’re very optimistic, our business is developing
extremely soundly and the order situation is looking good,”
Duerheimer said. “We mustn’t talk up a crisis. Growing debt
problems in Europe and the U.S. are giving enough reason for
concern, but the underlying economic picture remains positive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Andreas Cremer in  Frankfurt  via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net . 