-- 
For Deficit Talks, the $705 Billion Bipartisan Solution: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-14T00:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/for-deficit-cutting-negotiations-a-705-billion-bipartisan-solution-view.html
Much has been made of the idea of
President  Barack Obama  reaching a grand bargain with Republicans
on a deficit-cutting package. Just this week, 60 business
leaders and former officials urged the congressional
supercommittee to  “go big”  by adding trillions more to its
deficit-reduction target of $1.2 trillion.  It’s a laudable goal, one we have endorsed in the past, yet
with elections only 14 months off increasingly unrealistic.
Instead of aiming for the sun, the White House and lawmakers
should settle for a planet, even a moon. They should find the
areas of agreement -- yes, there are quite a few -- and
incorporate them into a package. Such a mini-deal would go a
long way toward restoring faith, at home and abroad, in the
U.S.’s ability to govern itself.  Many good ideas live on common ground. The Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget, part of the  New America Foundation ,
an independent, nonpartisan policy institute, recently outlined
40-plus  proposals  from  House Republicans  and various bipartisan
panels, including the  deficit commission  led by  Alan Simpson  and
 Erskine Bowles . They also listed ideas very nearly agreed on
(until a last-minute blowup) during this summer’s debt-limit
negotiations between the White House and Republicans.  Chained CPI  One such proposal involves what economists call a  “chained
Consumer Price Index.”  The current CPI measures inflation in a
fixed basket of household goods but doesn’t account for the
substitutions consumers make when, for example, the cost of a
steak increases but chicken legs do not. By accounting for such
shopping decisions, the chained CPI would lower cost-of-living
adjustments to government programs, including Social Security.
The 10-year savings: $232 billion.  Several overlapping proposals would reduce Medicare costs.
One would save $125 billion over a decade by gradually
increasing the age when Medicare benefits begin, to 67 from 65.
Another would shave off some $75 billion by discouraging overuse
of the health system. (This would be done by increasing Medicare
cost-sharing with a $550 deductible, a 20 percent co-payment and
a cap on out-of-pocket costs beyond $7,500.) To prevent dilution
of such cost-sharing incentives by Medigap plans -- the private
insurance policies that cover much of what Medicare doesn’t --
first-dollar coverage could be barred at the same time, for a
$53 billion savings. A final Medicare proposal would means-test
Medicare to increase premiums for high-earners, trimming $38
billion.  Managed Care  There are similar, overlapping ideas for Medicaid. For
starters, states could be given more flexibility to use managed
care. The government could also stop paying matching funds for
state taxes paid by health-care providers -- a gimmick many
states use to inflate federal payments. Taken together, these
reforms equal about $110 billion in savings.  Prominent members of both parties have voiced agreement on
reducing  farm subsidies , such as lowering direct payments to
farmers and overhauling the crop insurance program, to cut $28
billion. Similarly, there appears to be bipartisan resolve to
increase pension contributions by federal employees. The U.S.
could save about $47 billion by increasing worker contributions
and basing the benefit formula on the highest five years of
earnings instead of the highest three years.  In 2009, Obama opened the door to overhauling the medical-
malpractice system, a high-priority item for many Republicans
who think the legal system is skewed toward plaintiffs. By
deducting workers’ compensation and insurance payments from jury
awards, allowing safe havens for providers who follow best
practices, and capping noneconomic damages, the U.S. could save
about $62 billion.  Tradeoffs  Needless to say, entitlement cuts and legal reforms do not
rank high on Democrats’ priority lists. As a tradeoff,
Republicans could accept an expansion of Medicaid drug rebates
to the Medicare drug program, to trim $160 billion. This would
require pharmaceutical companies to provide rebates to the
federal government for a selection of  prescription drugs .  There is little overlap between the parties when it comes
to Obama’s job-creation proposal, with one big exception -- the
payroll-tax cut for employers. House Republican leaders have
spoken approvingly of the cut, to 3.1 percent from 6.2 percent,
in the employer portion of payroll taxes, as well as the small-
business tax break for those creating new jobs or increasing
wages. This tax break would cost $65 billion.  Add it all up, and the 10-year savings comes to $705
billion. It’s not exactly a $4 trillion grand bargain. But it’s
more than halfway to the mandatory $1.2 trillion target that the
supercommittee must hit to avoid triggering automatic cuts. In a
sclerotic era, that more than qualifies as progress.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 