-- 
Former New York Jets Player, Broadcaster Sam DeLuca Dies at 75 of Cancer

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-14T19:06:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/former-new-york-jets-player-broadcaster-sam-deluca-dies-at-75-of-cancer.html
Sam DeLuca, who played three
seasons with the  New York Jets  before becoming a broadcaster for
the National Football League team, has died. He was 75.  DeLuca, whose final season as a radio voice of the Jets was
in 1986, passed away yesterday of pancreatic cancer, the  New
York Post reported . The team announced the death in a news
release.  DeLuca was a guard for the Jets from 1964 to 1966 and his
playing career ended with a knee injury in the team’s final
preseason game in 1967. He joined the WABC radio booth,
initially as a fill-in, and worked alongside Merle Harmon
through the 1972 season. After several years working regional
telecasts for NBC, DeLuca returned to the Jets’ radio booth in
1979, the Post said.  “We are deeply saddened by the loss of Sam DeLuca,” Jets
owner  Woody Johnson  said in the statement. “Though an injury
ended his playing career prematurely, he remained a part of this
organization, calling games on radio and providing color for
television. A former team captain, he truly embodied what it
means to be a Jet.”  The Jets said they plan to “acknowledge his passing”
during the Sept. 18 game against the Jacksonville Jaguars.  A native of Brooklyn,  New York , DeLuca was high school
friends with Baseball Hall of Fame pitcher Sandy Koufax and New
York Mets principal owner Fred Wilpon, the Post said. He was
drafted by the  New York Giants  with the 23rd pick in 1957 out of
the University of  South Carolina  and spent three seasons in the
Canadian Football League before joining the  San Diego Chargers 
in 1960.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  