-- 
Fortune’s Beam CEO ’Won’t Feel Constrained’ on Acquisitions

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-09-14T23:07:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/fortune-s-beam-ceo-won-t-feel-constrained-on-acquisitions.html
Fortune Brands Inc. (FO) ’s Beam liquor
division, which begins trading as a standalone company next
month, said it’s prepared to make large acquisitions if the
right opportunity arises.  “We won’t feel constrained in terms of the scale,” Beam
Inc. Chief Executive Officer Matt Shattock said today in a
telephone interview. “We have a strong and very flexible
capital structure and that gives us the opportunity to
contemplate various types of transactions.” He declined to
identify potential acquisitions or how much the company may pay.  Fortune, which sold its Titleist golf unit for $1.23
billion this year and will spin off its home and security unit,
is shifting focus to liquor after investor  William Ackman  pushed
for change. Beam may buy smaller companies “that aren’t on the
radar” and also has the capacity to consider brands such as
Bacardi rum or Constellation Brands Inc.’s Svedka vodka, said
Tim Ramey, an analyst with D.A. Davidson & Co.  The company is more likely to consider acquisitions of as
much as $500 million, Ramey, who is based in  Lake Oswego ,
 Oregon , said in an interview today.  “The spirits business globally remains quite fragmented,”
said Ramey. “They will be a consolidator.”  Flavored Bourbon  The highest priority for Beam, which begins trading Oct. 4,
is to spend its free cash on marketing, sales and distribution
to grow existing brands, Shattock said. The company is adding
new versions of established brands in the U.S. and boosting
sales of  Jim Beam bourbon  and Teacher’s whisky in overseas
markets including  India  and  Latin America .  Since the beginning of last year, Deerfield, Illinois-based
Fortune has boosted brand marketing by $50 million. Almost a
quarter of sales growth last year came from new products,
Shattock said. Product introductions must help margins, boost
awareness of existing brands and attract new consumers, he said.  Next week, Beam will announce a new flavored bourbon and a
new version of Courvoisier cognac, Shattock said. The products
will be introduced to Beam’s sales force next week and will be
shipped in the first quarter. The company recently introduced
black cherry-infused Jim Beam called Red Stag and a Courvoisier
Rose blended with French red wine grapes.  “Our fundamental strategy is we have a great opportunity
to grow the organic value of this business significantly,”
Shattock said. “Our objective is to outperform the markets in
which we operate at the sales line.”  Larger Deals  The fourth-largest global spirits company also will
consider acquiring new brands and distribution to accelerate
growth, he said.  “In this industry, acquisition is a very important driver
and something that we will be looking at very seriously,” said
Shattock, who is 49.  Beam’s strategy to take control of its distribution system
in recent years will justify larger deals, Ramey said. The
company in 2008 and 2009 took control of the distribution of 75
percent of its global sales, up from 8 percent.  “They could make a case that they could buy something and
immediately have a steep change in the reach and intensity and
success of their distribution on a new brand,” Ramey said.  Asset values in the global spirits industry are “very
high” because the sector has been resilient in a weak economy
and provides strong cash flows, Shattock said.  “It’s a fact of life in this industry and a reflection of
industry strength,” he said. “Given those values, we will
look, as will others, to make sure that any opportunities out
there are ones that we can deliver incremental value against.”  Vodka, Tequila  Fortune’s spirits unit, which includes Maker’s Mark
bourbon, Effen vodka and  Sauza tequila , is the company’s most
profitable unit, reporting income of $544.3 million last year.  Fortune rose $1.52, or 2.7 percent, to $58.11 today in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined
3.6 percent this year.  Fortune Director  David Mackay , former CEO of Kellogg Co.,
will take over as the non-executive chairman of Beam. Fortune
CEO Bruce Carbonari will retire at the end of 2011, the company
has said.  Diageo Plc, based in  London , is the largest liquor company
in the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  