-- 
French Nuclear Watchdog Sought Safety Improvements at Blast Site

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-09-14T13:03:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/french-nuclear-watchdog-sought-safety-improvements-at-blast-site.html
The French atomic regulator
repeatedly sought safety improvements at a nuclear-waste
processing site owned by Electricite de  France  SA before this
week’s explosion that killed one person and injured four.  An investigation into the Sept. 12 accident at the Centraco
plant in southern France “will show whether it had to do with
the safety lapses we uncovered,” said Jean-Christophe Niel, who
heads the Autorite de Surete Nucleaire, or ASN.  The plant in the town of Codolet wasn’t previously shut
down because the ASN “felt the situation was moving in the
right direction,” Niel said today at a Paris press conference.  The explosion and fire at the low-level nuclear waste
processing site spurred calls for France to toughen safety tests
begun in the aftermath of  Japan ’s Fukushima atomic disaster.  The accident happened just three days before EDF, operator
of the country’s 58 reactors, and other operators of atomic
sites were due to report back to the ASN on their ability to
withstand emergencies such as earthquakes, floods and cuts to
power and cooling systems.  The Centraco plant wasn’t included among the 80
“priority” sites for which safety audits will be carried out
by the regulator before the end of the year.  Expand Operations  Socodei, the EDF unit that operates the site, was aiming to
expand operations because of the need to treat increasing
amounts of waste from reactors, according to the ASN’s 2010
annual report. The plant incinerates or melts waste including
low-level radioactive metals.  The watchdog called in the head of Centraco in November
2008 to discuss safety “gaps” and progress was noted at the
end of last year in improving the situation, the report states.  The agency said today it had asked for a plan to improve
safety at the site in 2008 and carried out nine inspections
there in 2009, five in 2010 and five this year, including one
surprise visit during the night of May 31.  The ASN has put online letters and documents about prior
incidents that include surpassing limits on the amount of
radioactive effluents from the plant and malfunctioning fire and
radiation detectors. Following the surprise inspection in May,
the ASN asked Socodei to improve its ability to cope with
potential accident situations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Cunningham at 
 scunningha10@bloomberg.net  