-- 
French Energy Group Appeals Government Gas Price Freeze

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-09-14T15:35:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/french-energy-group-appeals-government-gas-price-freeze.html
A group of French natural gas
suppliers filed an appeal with  France ’s highest court over a
government freeze on prices it says will hinder competition.  “The government’s refusal to pass on higher supply costs
for GDF Suez through regulated rates is not tenable in the long
term,” said a statement from the organization called Anode,
which represents suppliers Altergaz, Direct Energie, Gaz de
Paris and  Poweo. (ALPWO)  “Making rates political is dangerous.”  The companies compete for customers with former state-
controlled monopoly GDF Suez SA. They say promoting competition
will lower rates for consumers.  The French government in April froze household gas prices
for a year, a decision the country’s energy regulator has ruled
should be reversed from Oct. 1 to allow  GDF Suez (GSZ)  to cover supply
costs. The government hasn’t said whether rates could change on
that date.  “We don’t at all want there to be a freeze,” GDF Suez
Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet said in August. Such a
scenario would wipe around 340 million euros ($466 million) from
earnings in the fourth quarter, he said.  The freeze in regulated rates, which are set by the
government, could “severely hurt” alternative suppliers of the
energy competing with GDF Suez, according to today’s statement
from Anode. The challenge before the French court, which was
filed Aug. 26 and made public today, is aimed at getting a
reversal of a June 27 government decree that left rates
unchanged for households and small businesses when they should
have been raised due to higher supply costs.  ‘Victim’  “We are a victim of a period when there is at the same
time greater budgetary needs and a tendency to regulate,”
Mestrallet said today in a speech, referring to governments in
 Europe .  GDF Suez and the government reached a so-called public
service agreement for 2010-2013 that gives partial
responsibility for regulating household prices to the regulator,
known as the CRE. Under the plan, the regulator would have a
“binding opinion” on rates that would take the pressure off
the government, which is reluctant to raise rates in the lead up
the French presidential elections.  At the end of 2009, GDF Suez said it hadn’t covered supply
costs in France in four of the previous five years because
state-set rates were too low. In August of that year, the
accumulated shortfall was almost 2 billion euros.  “France has traditionally been regarded as the country
with the highest political risk for utilities,” Citigroup
Global Markets analysts including  Peter Atherton  and Sofia
Savvantidou wrote in a report published yesterday. Decisions on
whether to increase tariffs “have on many occasions been driven
by political considerations rather than economics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  