-- 
Gazprom Sees LNG Plant Expansion Backed By Sakhalin-2 Fields

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-09-14T15:04:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/gazprom-says-sakhalin-2-fields-can-support-lng-plant-expansion.html
OAO Gazprom expects the Sakhalin-2
venture to produce enough fuel to support the expansion of
Russia’s only liquefied natural gas plant as its partner  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  seeks resources outside the project.  The partners plan to extend the Piltun-Astokhskoye field to
feed Sakhalin-2’s liquefied natural gas plant, Vsevolod Cherepanov, head of Gazprom’s gas, condensate and oil production
department, told reporters today in  St. Petersburg . Additional
volumes from producing fields may feed the plant’s expansion or
be shipped via the Gazprom-owned pipeline network, he said.  There will be enough gas for a third LNG train “if there
is such a will,” Cherepanov said. The project’s two LNG units,
called trains, are working at their full capacity, producing
more than 9.6 million metric tons of liquid fuel a year.  Shell has been pushing to add a third LNG production unit
at the $22 billion Sakhalin-2 venture north of  Japan  as the
Hague-based producer seeks to boost gas production worldwide.
Gazprom hasn’t yet agreed as it tries to balance its obligations
to supply gas domestically against the attractiveness of exports
to  Asia ’s growing markets.  Cameron in Moscow  Expansion of the LNG plant, which was designed to
accommodate a third unit, was on the agenda for talks between
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  in Moscow earlier this week. Shell Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Voser  met with his Gazprom counterpart  Alexei
Miller  yesterday, the Russian company said in a statement.  Producing gas at the southern part of Piltun-Astokhskoye,
one of the two offshore fields that feed the plant, may be
challenging as it lies under layers of oil and condensate,
Cherepanov said. Gazprom, Shell and its partners in Sakhalin-2
 Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and Mitsui & Co. will seek to develop the
extension as “the next stage,” boosting profitability,
Cherepanov said.  Output at the Lunskoye field may be increased, a Kremlin
official said ahead of Cameron’s visit.  The two producing fields may boost output by 4 billion
cubic meters a year for as long as five years, Cherepanov said.
The additional gas may be supplied to the LNG plant or into the
pipeline system to supply to domestic consumers, he said. That
volume would be sufficient for about 3 million metric tons of
LNG, while the additional LNG unit may have a capacity to
produce almost 5 million tons.  Supply Sources  “Sources of supply will be discussed by Gazprom and Shell
as part of a protocol signed in November 2010,” Vera Surzhenko,
a spokeswoman for Shell in  Russia , said by phone today. They
will include existing fields and potentially new fields, she
said.  Gazprom and Shell in November agreed to expand cooperation
in Russia and abroad. Shell may offer Gazprom assets in Asia in
exchange for a deal to expand Sakhalin-2, people with knowledge
of the negotiations said in February.  Gazprom last week opened a domestic pipeline from Sakhalin
Island to the port city of Vladivostok on Russia’s Pacific coast
under government orders to build pipelines and supply gas to
Russia’s infrastructure-poor eastern regions.  Output from Gazprom’s Kirinskoye field, part of the
neighboring Sakhalin-3 project, will be the main field feeding
the link after production starts next year. Reserves at Yuzhno-
Kirinskoye, also part of Sakhalin-3, may rise by as much as 100
billion cubic meters to 360 billion cubic meters this year after
new exploration data, Cherepanov said.  Shell looked at Gazprom’s nearby Sakhalin-3 development for
reserves on concerns the Sakhalin-2 fields may not be sufficient
for the expansion. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  invited Shell
to participate in Sakhalin-3 during a meeting in 2009 with
outgoing CEO Jeroen van der Veer and his replacement Voser.
Gazprom has since said it wants to develop Sakhalin-3 without
foreign partners.  Gazprom, Russia’s biggest gas producer and export monopoly,
agreed in 2006 to buy just more than 50 percent of the Sakhalin-
2 venture for $7.45 billion. Shell controls 27.5 percent of the
Sakhalin Energy Investment Co. operator, and Mitsubishi and
Mitsui hold the balance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  