-- 
Geithner Says Europe’s Leaders Committed to Avoiding Lehman-Style Collapse

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-09-14T14:05:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/geithner-says-europe-s-leaders-committed-to-avoiding-lehman-style-collapse.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said “there is no chance that the major countries of
Europe will let their institutions be at risk in the eyes of the
market.”  Geithner, speaking at a conference in  New York  today, said
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has repeatedly said “we are not
going to have a  Lehman Brothers ,” a reference to the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, which deepened the
financial crisis.  “I think she recognizes that they’ve got to do some more
to make sure that they make that commitment credible to the
world,” Geithner said at the Delivering Alpha conference
produced by CNBC and Institutional Investor.  On Sept. 16, Geithner will attend a session of  Europe ’s
Economic and Financial Affairs Council, known as Ecofin, in
Wroclaw, Poland. At the meetings with European Union finance
ministers, he will urge European governments to step up their
crisis-fighting efforts.  Geithner said European leaders need to have “more force
behind their commitments” to ensure that Italy and Spain can
keep sustainable  interest rates . He said Europe must undertake
reforms for  Greece , Ireland and Portugal, and have the capacity
to stand behind the European financial system.  “They recognize that they are going to have to do more to
earn the confidence of the world, that they have the political
will to do this,” Geithner said.  Europe Trip  Geithner’s trip to Wroclaw will be his second to Europe in
a week. He returned to Washington on Sept. 10 from a gathering
of Group of Seven finance ministers and central bankers in
Marseille, France, where he urged European leaders to “act more
forcefully.” The meeting in  Poland  includes officials from all
27 EU nations, a broader gathering than the G-7.  He said today the problems in Europe matter to the United
States because they add to caution around the world.  “We have a big interest in helping them through this but
this is their challenge and they have the economic and financial
capacity to meet this challenge,” Geithner said. “People who
are concerned that this is beyond their grasp are mistaken. The
size of the challenges they face, financial, economically, are
completely within the capacity of the stronger European members
to manage”  Geithner said a failure by Congress to approve President
 Barack Obama ’s $447 billion jobs program would weaken the
economy.  Weaker Growth  “If we do not pass a package this large and this powerful,
then economic growth in the  United States  will be weaker, no
doubt about it,” he said.  Obama proposed a jobs plan that is weighted toward tax
cuts, which account for more than half the dollar value of the
plan. The rest would provide money for improving infrastructure,
modernizing schools and helping states keep teachers and
emergency workers on the job. The centerpiece is a cut in the
 payroll tax , which covers the first $106,800 in earnings and is
evenly split between employers and employees. Obama would reduce
the portion paid between workers next year to 3.1 percent from
4.2 percent now.  Geithner said changes in rules giving U.S. companies
incentives to return overseas profits to the United States would
be proposed as part of a broader overhaul of corporate-tax laws.  “You’ll see us propose ways to strengthen incentives to
bring that money back, but we’re not going to do that --
repatriation outside of corporate  tax reform  -- for the simple
reason it costs a lot of money,” Geithner said.  His comments at the conference were broadcast on CNBC
television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  