-- 
Geithner Takes Tougher Tone on Europe to Fight Debt Crisis Roiling Markets

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-09-14T04:13:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/geithner-takes-tougher-tone-on-europe-to-fight-debt-crisis-roiling-markets.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will urge European governments to step up their crisis-
fighting efforts amid Obama administration concerns that the
region’s woes may hurt the  U.S. economy .  Geithner will press European Union finance ministers when
he meets with them this week, a euro-area official said. The
official spoke on condition of anonymity because preparations
for the meeting, which takes place in Wroclaw, Poland, on Sept.
16 and 17, are confidential. It will be the first time Geithner
has attended a session of  Europe ’s Economic and Financial
Affairs Council, known as Ecofin.  “The U.S. has always been discretely preoccupied and
discretely present, and now it’s starting to be intensely
preoccupied and intensely present,” said Nicolas Veron, a
senior fellow at Bruegel, a Brussels-based economics research
group.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao today indicated limits to what
his nation will do to counter the European crisis. In a speech
at the  World Economic Forum  in Dalian,  China , he said that
countries must “put their own houses in order.” He added that
China’s own stable growth is among its contributions to the
world economy.  Geithner’s trip to Wroclaw will be his second to Europe in
a week. He returned to Washington on Sept. 10 from a gathering
of Group of Seven finance ministers and central bankers in
Marseille,  France , where he urged European leaders to “act more
forcefully.” The meeting in Poland includes officials from all
27 EU nations, a broader gathering than the G-7.  U.S. ‘Nervousness’  The visit “underlines the nervousness of the
administration in the U.S. about what’s happening in Europe”
and the effect the region’s debt crisis is having on U.S.
financial markets,  Julian Jessop , chief global economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said in an interview
yesterday.  President  Barack Obama  told a group of Spanish-language
journalists at the White House on Sept. 12 that “we’re deeply
engaged with Europeans to try to solve this crisis.”  Large European countries “are going to have to get
together and make a decision about how they can match currency
integration with a more effective set of coordinated fiscal
policies,” Obama said, according to a transcript of the
interview obtained by Bloomberg News.  ‘Very Damaging’  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.9 percent yesterday.
Societe Generale SA, which had plunged 8.1 percent, rallied 15
percent and BNP Paribas SA added 7.2 percent following a 12
percent retreat after the French banks said they are able to
finance their operations.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.9 percent at 4
p.m.  New York  time yesterday. The index is down 14 percent from
its 2011 high on April 29.  The European crisis was “very, very damaging in the
American economy last summer,” Geithner told Bloomberg
Television on Sept. 9. “It’s been a significant cause to the
slowdown we’ve had this summer and I think it’s very important
to the world that Europeans do what they need to do so that the
problems they’re facing don’t spread, don’t add to the pressures
on the world economy as a whole.”  U.S. Slowdown  Hiring in the U.S. unexpectedly stagnated in August and
manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in two years, reports
this month showed. The economy will grow 1.8 percent in the
third quarter, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists Sept. 2-7, down from a forecast of 2.1 percent in the
previous month’s survey.  Geithner could urge European leaders at the  Poland  meeting
to be more decisive, said  Phillip Swagel , who was an assistant
Treasury secretary for economic policy in the George W. Bush
administration. “If they’re going to support the countries in
trouble, do it,” Swagel said. “Or Germany and France should
just decide they’re going to focus on their own banks.”  While Geithner takes a more visible approach toward Europe,
the new management team at the  International Monetary Fund  also
is increasing the pressure.  David Lipton, a former adviser to Obama, spent five weeks
as a special adviser to  Christine Lagarde , the new IMF managing
director, before starting as her first deputy this month.  Jackson Hole  Lipton played a substantial role in drafting a speech
Lagarde gave at the  Federal Reserve ’s annual forum in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming, according to three IMF officials who declined to
be named because the information isn’t public.  “Mr. Lipton was among various people who offered comments
on speech drafts,” IMF spokesman William Murray said in an e-
mail response to a question about Lipton’s role.  Lagarde said in the speech that European banks should be
forced to build up their capital to prevent the continent’s debt
crisis from infecting more countries.  Without an “urgent” recapitalization, “we could easily
see the further spread of economic weakness to core countries,
or even a debilitating liquidity crisis,” said Lagarde, a
former French finance minister.  Lipton held various positions in the 1990s at the Treasury,
where he worked with Geithner in the international affairs
division.  “The way the U.S. handled the financial crisis and the
lessons learned from that could become a much more important
part of the IMF message to Europe,” said  Eswar Prasad , a senior
fellow at the Brookings Institution in  Washington  and a
professor at  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York.  “Lipton has been very much a part of what’s been happening
in terms of the financial system and broader recovery effects,”
Prasad, a former head of the IMF’s financial studies division,
said in an interview yesterday. “Almost certainly those lessons
are going to be much more incorporated into the senior
management’s thinking.”  The IMF and  World Bank  meet Sept. 23-25 in Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  