-- 
German Bonds Decline as Demand for Safety Eases; ECB Buys Italian Debt

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-09-14T15:36:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/german-bunds-advance-after-moody-s-downgrades-two-french-banks.html
German 10-year bunds fell for a
second day as stocks gained and a Chinese official said his
nation may invest in countries affected by the region’s debt
crisis, reducing demand for safer assets.  Italian government bonds advanced for the first time in
five days as the  European Central Bank  was said to buy the
country’s debt in a bid to stop borrowing costs from rising.
German two-year notes dropped as the nation sold 4.1 billion
euros ($5.6 billion) of the securities. Greek 10-year bonds slid
for a ninth day, pushing yields above 25 percent, amid
speculation the nation will default.  “ Risk aversion  is coming down,” said  Karsten Linowsky , a
fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.
“Equities are recovering and that means the flight into safe-
haven assets like bunds is also coming down. The bund yield is
still at very low levels. There is some support for Italian and
Spanish bonds and this has a lot to do with the ECB.”  Ten-year bund yields climbed seven basis points to 1.86
percent at 4:28 p.m. in London, after dropping to a record 1.679
percent yesterday. The 2.25 percent security due in September
2021 fell 0.630, or 6.30 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to
103.495. Two-year yields rose four basis points to 0.54 percent.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index advanced for a second day,
gaining 1.4 percent.  Chinese Support  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told a
conference in  New York  today “there is no chance that the major
countries of Europe will let their institutions be at risk in
the eyes of the market.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy will send a “clear signal” to Greece today on
the need to meet deficit-cutting goals, German Economy Minister
Philipp Roesler said at a news conference in  Rome . The leaders
will hold a conference call with Prime Minister  George Papandreou  at around 7 p.m. Greece time.  China ’s Caijing magazine cited  Zhang Xiaoqiang , a vice
chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission, as
saying the country remains willing to buy the debt of nations
affected by the sovereign debt crisis.  Bund yields have dropped more than a percentage point in
the past three months as investors sought the relative safety of
top-rated  government securities  after the region’s debt crisis
deepened and data showed the U.S. recovery is slowing.  ECB Buying  Italian 10-year bond yields dropped nine basis points to
5.62 percent, after earlier climbing to 5.77 percent, the
highest level since Aug. 5. Two-year yields fell 11 basis points
to 4.53 percent.  The ECB bought the nation’s  government bonds  according to
five people with knowledge of the transactions, who asked not to
be identified because the deals are confidential. A spokesman
for the Frankfurt-based central bank declined to comment.  “We’ve seen quite a worrying increase in Italian yields in
the past few weeks and that means the volumes that the ECB will
have to purchase is increasing,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-
income strategist at WestLB AG in London. “The ECB doesn’t seem
to be willing to buy in the amounts necessary to stabilize
Italian and Spanish yields in the 5 percent area.”  Spain ’s bonds gained amid speculation the ECB will buy more
of the securities after it started purchasing Italian and
Spanish debt on Aug. 8. Ten-year yields declined two basis
points to 5.36 percent, and two-year rates fell 11 basis points
to 3.76 percent.  German Auction  The ECB said on Sept. 12 it settled 14 billion euros ($19.2
billion) of bond purchases last week, up from 13.3 billion euros
the previous week.  Germany ’s Juergen Stark resigned from the
ECB’s Executive Board on Sept. 9 in protest at the purchases,
which he says blur the line between monetary and fiscal policy
by lowering borrowing costs for distressed governments.  Germany sold its two-year notes at an average yield of 0.51
percent, compared with 0.73 percent at the previous auction on
Aug. 17. Demand from investors increased to 1.8 times the amount
on offer from 1.4 times.  The auction showed “robust demand” for short-maturity
German securities, even in the “current ultra-low yield
environment,” WestLB’s Leister wrote in an e-mail.  French two-year notes declined as the nation prepared to
sell securities maturing in 2013, 2014 and 2016 tomorrow. It
also plans to auction inflation-linked bonds due in 2019 and
2022. The two-year yield increased five basis points to 1.08
percent, and the 10-year yield climbed seven basis points to
2.66 percent. Spain also plans to sell bonds tomorrow.  Halt Payments  Greece  should halt payments on its debt to stop a
deterioration of the economy that threatens the European Union,
said Mario Blejer, who managed Argentina’s central bank in the
aftermath of the world’s biggest sovereign default.  Ten-year Greek yields climbed 118 basis points to 25.65
percent, after earlier reaching a euro-era record 26.46 percent.
Two-year yields surged as much as 779 basis points, or 7.79
percentage points, to a record 84.52 percent, before settling at
75.43 percent.  German government bonds have returned 8 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Treasuries gained
8.2 percent. Greek bonds have lost 42 percent and Italian bonds
have declined 3.9 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  