-- 
Ghana Inflation Stays at 8.4%, Pointing to Unchanged Rate

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-09-14T13:23:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/ghana-inflation-stays-at-8-4-pointing-to-unchanged-rate-1-.html
Ghana’s  inflation rate was
unchanged in August as rising electricity costs offset a
moderation in food price pressures, adding to expectations the
central bank may keep its key  interest rate  on hold.  Inflation stayed at 8.4 percent in July,  Grace Bediako , a
statistician at the Ghana Statistical Service, told reporters in
the capital, Accra, today. Prices declined 0.7 percent in the
month, she said.  The Bank of Ghana left its key interest rate unchanged at
12.5 percent for the first time in three meetings on Sept. 1,
concerned about rising electricity and water costs. Wage
increases are also adding pressure to inflation, indicating the
bank may keep the rate steady at its next meeting.  “Inflation has bottomed and we now expect it to be up in
September,” Yvonne Mhango, sub-Saharan Africa economist at
Renaissance Capital in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.
“We expect the Monetary Policy Committee to keep the policy
rate unchanged at the next meeting.”  The cedi weakened as much as 1 percent against the dollar
to 1.5630 and was trading at 1.5599 as of 1:11 p.m. in Accra.  Ghana  raised the price for water by 6.7 percent and
electricity by 7 percent on Aug. 29, while public sector
workers’ wages were boosted by 20 percent last month. That may
add to inflation pressure after food prices rose 3.8 percent
last month, up from 3.3 percent in July, according to the
statistics office.  “The inflation rate will likely increase this month due to
the utility price increases and public sector wage increases,”
Bediako said. “The impact may remain till the end of the year,
depending on how food inflation behaves.”  Ghana became Africa’s newest oil exporter in December, when
production began at the offshore Jubilee oil field, which is
operated by U.K.-based  Tullow Oil Plc. (TLW)  Ghana is the world’s
second-largest cocoa producer after  Ivory Coast  and the
continent’s No. 2 gold producer after  South Africa .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 