-- 
Goodfriend Says Fed Needs More Data Before New Round of Asset Purchases

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-09-14T17:47:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/goodfriend-says-fed-needs-more-data-before-new-round-of-asset-purchases.html
The  Federal Reserve  should wait for
more evidence the economy is slowing before starting a third
round of quantitative easing, or QE3, according to  Marvin Goodfriend , a former Richmond Fed policy adviser.  “The Fed shouldn’t be premature about that,” Goodfriend,
a professor at  Carnegie Mellon University  in Pittsburgh, said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday”
with Tom Keene. “It should wait to see whether this slowdown
develops into a more serious contraction and whether
disinflation develops into an incipient deflation before it
acts.”  Retail sales in the U.S. unexpectedly stagnated in August
as a lack of employment and limited income growth restrained
demand, highlighting the risk the economy will stall, a report
today from the Commerce Department showed. Other recent reports
showed payrolls didn’t grow in August and manufacturing expanded
at the slowest pace in two years.  “The Fed needs to make sure this downturn doesn’t slide
into a deflation,” Goodfriend said. “There is no question in
my mind the Fed can do that by going to QE3 and printing more
money.”  Fed policy makers at their meeting Sept. 20-21 may decide
to replace short-term  Treasury securities  in the central bank’s
$1.65 trillion portfolio with long-term bonds in a bid to reduce
rates on everything from mortgages to  car loans , according to
economists at Wells Fargo & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last month said policy makers
will discuss the tools they could use to boost the recovery at
their next meeting and stand ready to use them if necessary.  Inflating the Economy  “If it acts prematurely, I’m afraid markets will infer
that the Fed is trying to inflate the economy perhaps in order
to deflate the real value of the public debt as a way of getting
us out of a debt overhang problem,” Goodfriend said. “And I
think that would cause long-term bond rates to start spiking up,
and that would be an utter disaster.”  Treasury 30-year bonds rose after the government sold $13
billion of the debt at a record low yield as European sovereign-
debt concern spurred demand. The bonds drew a yield of 3.310
percent, below the previous record of 3.540 percent at the
February 2009 offering.  Economists cut their forecasts for growth, according to a
Bloomberg News survey taken from Sept. 2 to Sept. 7. The median
forecast calls for a 1.8 percent annual pace of expansion in the
third quarter, down from 2.1 percent in the previous month’s
survey. Growth next year is forecast to average 2.2 percent,
down from 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  