-- 
Good Energies Venture Plans 990-Megawatt Wind Farm in Nevada

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-09-14T23:06:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/good-energies-venture-plans-990-megawatt-wind-farm-in-nevada-1-.html
Champlin/GEI Wind Holdings LLC, a
North American wind-energy developer backed by Good Energies
Inc., asked state regulators for permission to build a 990-
megawatt wind farm in southeast  Nevada .  The project would use as many as 350 turbines, according to
a permit application  filed  with the  Nevada Public Utilities
Commission . The cost wasn’t disclosed.  The project is one of the first proposed by Santa Barbara,
California-based Champlin/GEI since its creation in November,
after Good Energies agreed to provide as much as $50 million to
co-owner  Champlin Windpower LLC , a closely held company formed
in 2006 to develop U.S. projects.  The Wilson Creek project would be located on federal land
managed by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management about 20 miles (32
kilometers) northeast of Pioche, in Lincoln County, Nevada,
according to the Aug. 31  application .  The project would be developed in phases and would require
a right of way from the federal government in addition to state
permits. The agency  began  environmental analysis in July, and
the capacity of the first phase would be as much as 500
megawatts.  Champlin/GEI is developing other sites in  California ,
Hawaii,  Utah , and Nevada it estimates may have total capacity of
4,500 megawatts, Casey Willis, senior project manager, said
today in an e-mail.  “The company is looking to expand into the Northwest and
Midwest by buying early- to mid-stage wind projects,” Willis
said. Wilson Creek’s first phase may come online in 2015, he
said.  NextEra Energy Resources LLC operates the largest wind
power plant in the U.S., the 735.5-megawatt Horse Hollow project
in  Texas . Terra-Gen Power LLC is building the 1,550-megawatt
Alta Wind Energy Center in southern California, and Caithness
Energy LLC is constructing its 845-megawatt Shepherds Flat
project in  Oregon .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 