-- 
Google Buys 1,023 IBM Patents to Bolster Defense of Android

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-09-14T20:36:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/google-purchases-1-023-patents-from-ibm-to-bolster-portfolio.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  bought 1,023 patents
from  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  as the Internet
search and advertising company bolsters its strategy of
defending against smartphone lawsuits.  Transfers  recorded  by the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office’s website yesterday show Google acquired the patents Aug.
17. Jim Prosser, a spokesman for the  Mountain View , California-
based company, confirmed the transaction today without providing
details or financial terms. Chris Andrews, a spokesman for
Armonk, New York-based IBM, declined to comment.  Google is building an arsenal of patents that the company
has said is largely designed to counter a “hostile, organized
campaign” by companies including Apple Inc. and Microsoft Corp.
against the Android operating system for mobile devices. Google
had already acquired 1,030 patents from IBM in a transaction
recorded in July, and will obtain more than 17,000 with its
$12.5 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  Android is a free, open-source program that relies on some
nonproprietary features Google didn’t create and allows outside
developers to modify the code. That has left the company and
handset makers that use the system vulnerable to lawsuits
claiming Android was built on the backs of research done by
other technology companies.  Android handset makers  HTC Corp. (2498) , Samsung Electronics Co.
and Motorola Mobility have each been targeted in lawsuits by
Cupertino, California-based Apple, and Microsoft and Motorola
Mobility have exchanged patent-infringement allegations.  To help in the fight, Google last month transfered to HTC
nine patents it bought in the past year from companies including
the former Motorola Inc. and Openwave Systems Inc. Taoyuan,
Taiwan-based HTC used those patents last week in a new lawsuit
that escalates its patent battle with Apple.  The IBM sale was previously reported by the SEO by the Sea
blog.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  