-- 
Google Adds Group Deal Aggregating Service to China Website

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-14T03:02:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/google-adds-group-deal-aggregating-service-to-china-website.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , which moved its
Chinese search-engine service offshore last year to avoid the
country’s online censorship rules, said it added a new service
to collect group-buying deals in the Asian nation.  The experimental service, called  Shihui , started yesterday
and provides information on group discounts that is supplied by
more than 100 partner sites, Taj Meadows, a Tokyo-based Google
spokesman, said in a phone interview today. Shihui can be
translated as “a timely benefit.”  “Shihui is in the early stages of development and we’ll be
working closely with our partners to see what features drive the
best traffic to their sites and help users find the offers that
are most valuable to them,” Meadows said.  Google has been losing market share in  China ’s search
market to Baidu Inc. since January 2010, when the  Mountain View ,
California-based company said it was no longer willing to comply
with China’s requirements for websites to self-censor content.
Two months later, Google redirected Chinese users to an
unfiltered site in  Hong Kong .  Google’s share of China’s search market fell to 19 percent
in the second quarter of this year, from a peak of 36 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2009, according to data from Analysys
International, a research firm in Beijing.  The Shihui page can be sorted by types of products
including food, hotels, entertainment and beauty products, as
well as by group-buying site. Providers listed at the top of the
page include Groupon Inc.’s China venture Gaopeng.com and local
rivals such as Lashou.com, Manzuo and Tuanbaowang.  Google’s Internet license, which must be reviewed annually,
was approved by China’s Ministry of Industry and  Information
Technology  earlier this month.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  