-- 
Google Bid for Motorola Mobility Rose 33% Before Agreement, Filing Shows

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-09-14T01:42:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/google-bid-for-motorola-mobility-rose-33-before-agreement-filing-shows.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s bid for Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. climbed by 33 percent from its opening
offer before being accepted by the handset maker, a Motorola
Mobility filing released today shows.  On Aug. 1, Google made an initial offer of $30 per share, a
bid that was countered by Motorola Mobility’s advisers with word
that it was seeking $43.50 per share, the document shows. Google
raised its bid to $37 a share on Aug. 9, and on the same day
lifted it again, to $40, according to the filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Google, maker of the Android mobile-phone platform, agreed
to pay $12.5 billion, or $40 a share, to try and gain more clout
as it battles  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone for wireless market share.
Motorola Mobility, under pressure from activist investor  Carl Icahn  to shift strategy, gives Google more than 17,000 patents
it can leverage in negotiations with competitors such as Apple.  Direct discussions between the two companies about the
future of Motorola Mobility’s patent portfolio had begun in
early July following Google’s failed bid to buy Nortel Networks
Corp.’s patents, according to the document. By July 21,
discussions led by Motorola Mobility Chief Executive Officer
Sanjay Jha and  Andy Rubin , senior vice president of mobile at
Google, had moved on to the possibility of Google buying
Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola Mobility.  On Aug. 10, Motorola Mobility’s board met with its
advisers, including  Frank Quattrone ’s Qatalyst Partners LLC, to
discuss the possibility of soliciting other bids before deciding
to proceed with negotiations just with  Mountain View ,
California-based Google. The companies entered into their merger
agreement on Aug. 15 and announced it the same day, the filing
shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  