-- 
Gramercy Capital Said to Consider Sale After Restructuring

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-09-14T21:26:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/gramercy-capital-said-to-consider-sale-after-debt-restructuring.html
Gramercy Capital Corp., the real
estate investment trust whose stock has more than doubled in the
past year, may consider a sale of the company after it completes
a debt restructuring, said two people familiar with the plan.
The shares surged almost 10 percent.  Gramercy, which is working with  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and the
bank’s Eastdil Secured LLC unit, plans to contact private-equity
firms if it pursues a sale, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the process is private. TPG and Angelo Gordon
& Co. are among the firms that have previously expressed an
interest in the New York-based REIT, one of the people said.  “Private-equity firms looking for a publicly traded real
estate platform would likely have an interest in Gramercy,”
said  Ben Thypin , director of market analysis for New York-based
Real Capital Analytics Inc. “With the company’s restructuring
in place, Eastdil should be able to shop it as an opportunity to
create or grow such a platform.”  Gramercy, which had been in default on its loans, agreed on
Sept. 1 to settle $549.7 million in mortgage debt with lenders
by transferring hundreds of U.S. buildings. The company plans to
file financial reports for last year and the first two quarters
of 2011 with regulators by Sept. 30. It may pursue a sale or
other strategic options after submitting those filings,
according to the people.  Officials for Gramercy, TPG, Angelo Gordon and Wells Fargo
declined to comment.  Public REITs  Gramercy climbed 33 cents, or 9.7 percent, to $3.72 at 4:15
p.m. in  New York , giving the company a market value of $185.8
million. The shares have jumped 172 percent in the past 12
months, making it the top performer in the 33-member Bloomberg
Mortgage REIT Index.  Apollo Global Management LLC,  Colony Capital LLC  and
Starwood Capital Group LLC are among private-equity firms that
have backed publicly traded REITs. The companies are valuable to
buyout firms because they invest in property and loans and have
access to low-cost capital through the  bond market , Thypin said.  “Publicly traded shares give the firm and its investors
more liquidity than they have with their private partnership
interests,” Thypin said.  Buyout managers such as TPG and KKR & Co. have been
expanding their real estate efforts as they seek to rely less on
traditional corporate takeovers for profits. Blackstone Group
LP, the world’s largest private-equity company by total assets,
is raising a new property fund slated to total about $10
billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 