-- 
Greece Pushes $1.4 Billion in Solar Projects to Aid Economy

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-09-14T15:46:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/greece-pushes-1-4-billion-in-solar-investment-to-boost-economy.html
Greece, which pays  Europe ’s highest
premium for solar power,  said  it will fast-track three solar
photovoltaic projects with a total investment of 1 billion euros
($1.37 billion) to help revive its shrinking economy.  They include the 200-megawatt Kozani plant, to be developed
by  Public Power  Corp. SA, the country’s biggest electricity
producer, said Aristomenis Syngros, the head of Invest in
Greece, the agency that implements a law aimed at speeding up
projects deemed important to the  Greek economy .  Solar Cells
Hellas Group  is planning a 131-megawatt plant and  Silcio SA  has
one that would generate 127 megawatts under the program.  The law is aimed at bolstering growth in an economy that
may shrink more than 5 percent in 2011 as the government trims
spending to avoid default on its bonds.  Greece ’s relatively
strong solar radiation and high price paid by utilities and
consumers for power from the sun might turn the nation into
Germany’s rival as Europe’s biggest solar market.  “PV is probably the only sector which shows strong
development trends in Greece,” the Hellenic Association of
Photovoltaic Cos., an industry lobby, wrote on its website.  Developers applied for licenses to generate 9.5 gigawatts
of power in Greece, according to figures published in March.
Germany by comparison added 7.4 gigawatts of solar capacity last
year, making it the world’s biggest market for the cells.  Red Tape  So far, Greece’s bureaucratic hurdles have prevented a
solar boom as seen in Italy and  Spain , said Pietro Radoia, a
solar analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London . That
may have been the country’s luck, he said.  “Greece is in no economic shape to pay for a solar boom
and the EU has already called for a reduction in the feed-in-
tariffs,” Radoia said.  Greece has resisted those calls as it hopes the solar
sector can draw investments and fuel economic growth. Earlier
this month, Greek Energy Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said
Europe needs an “urgent” agreement that would allow sunnier
countries in the south to export solar power to those in the
north.  There’s a “clear need, especially in Germany,” for
imports of renewable energy from southern Europe given the
country’s vow to abandon atomic power, and political turmoil in
the  Middle East , Papaconstantinou said Sept. 5 in Hamburg.  The fast-track law adopted last year removes bureaucratic
hurdles to speed up domestic projects that “generate
quantitative and qualitative results of major significance to
the national economy” and “facilitate the country’s exit from
the economic crisis,” according to a  translation of the law 
posted on the Invest in Greece website.  Yingli as Investor  Public Power said it aims to win a strategic investor from
15 contenders, including  China ’s Yingli Green Energy Holding
Co.,  Siemens AG (SIE)  from Germany and a team of  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and
 Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , for its 500 million-euro Kozani project by
early next year. Kozani requires the set-up of a nearby module-
production facility.  The company hopes to complete the licensing process by the
end of January before a scheduled reduction to the feed-in-
tariff and start construction in the summer or fall of 2012,
Ioannis Tsipouridis, chief executive officer of Public Power’s
renewables unit, said in an interview today. Being included in
the fast-track program “is a great comfort for us and the
investors,” Tsipouridis said by phone.  Greece may add as much as 600 megawatts of solar capacity
this year, four times the level in 2010, according to estimates
from Bloomberg New Energy Finance. More than 200 megawatts were
installed through August, Stelios Psomas, a policy adviser at
the solar lobby, said by e-mail.  Greece  pays  35 to 40 euro cents per kilowatt-hour for
photovoltaic electricity.  Germany ’s premium varies from 21 to 29
cents.  Should new installations rise as much or greater than
projected, “there is a possibility of really drastic or even
retroactive cuts in the coming years” to rates, Radoia said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  