-- 
Greece Euro Exit Best Answer to Crisis, BNY Mellon Unit Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   B a u m g a e r t e l   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-09-14T13:33:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/greece-euro-exit-best-answer-to-crisis-bny-mellon-unit-says-1-.html
Kicking  Greece  out of the euro is
the best way to end the volatility in European markets and help
the region’s economic recovery, according to a study by  Bank of
New York Mellon Corp. (BK)   “We have believed for some time that Greece’s withdrawal
from the  euro zone  is inevitable and all plans introduced until
now have simply been about building enough time for the European
financial system to prepare for this eventuality,” Paul Brain,
investment leader for fixed income at Newton, a BNY Mellon
asset-management unit in  London , said today in a statement on
PRN. “With the possibility of a Greek default becoming more
likely every day, time has run out.”  Brain estimated that the default resulting from Greece
leaving the euro zone would have a 40 percent recovery rate. The
move would cut the Greek deficit to a more sustainable level and
strengthen the euro, he said.  “The hit to the  Greek economy  would be huge, but would it
be any worse than the present situation of depression and
growing deficits?” Brain said in the statement.  Greek two-year notes today erased a decline, pushing the
yield on the securities down 150 basis points, or 1.50
percentage points, to 75.23 percent at 9:10 a.m. in London. The
yield earlier climbed 779 basis points to a euro-era record of
84.52 percent.  Brain is portfolio manager of the $942 million BNY Mellon
Global Bond Fund, which is based in Dublin. The fund, which
holds mainly sovereign debt, returned 7.4 percent annually for
the past five years, beating 89 percent of peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Newton oversees $76 billion. BNY Mellon manages $1.3
trillion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Baumgaertel in Boston at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  