-- 
Greece’s Ruling Party Condemns ‘Threats’ by Taxi Federation

-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 
2011-09-14T11:37:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/greece-s-ruling-party-condemns-threats-by-taxi-federation.html
Greek lawmakers condemned
“threats” by the Greek Taxi Federation president against
politicians as the government seeks to make it easier to obtain
taxi licenses.  “Threats launched against Transport Minister Yiannis Ragousis and members of parliament are unacceptable,” according
to an e-mailed statement sent yesterday from Pasok, the party
headed by Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou .  Thymios Lymberopoulos, president of the taxi federation,
said lawmakers that vote for the legislation will be targeted,
Greek-daily newspaper  Kathimerini  reported. Lymberopoulos
couldn’t be reached for comment. Makis Kasidiaris, vice-
president of the Association of Attica Taxi Drivers, confirmed
the comments were made. He said the comments were misinterpreted
and meant that politicians who voted for the bill should be
defeated at the next election rather than a physical threat.  Taxi owners are opposing attempts by the government to make
it easier to obtain taxi licences and lift restrictions on the
number available. The changes are part of a push to open up so-
called closed professions in Greece, one of the conditions for
last year’s 110 billion-euro ($155 billion) European Union-led
bailout.  About 5,000 striking taxi drivers gathered in front of
 Greece ’s parliament yesterday, according to police estimates, as
lawmakers discussed the bill inside. Taxi drivers held a 48-hour
strike starting on Sept. 12 after striking for almost three
weeks at the height of Greece’s tourist season. Taxi drivers
also clashed with riot police Sept. 10 in the northern city of
Thessaloniki before a speech by Papandreou.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in  Athens  at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  