-- 
Greece Needs to Default, Exit Euro Over Loan, Slovak Party Leader Says

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-09-15T11:17:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/greece-needs-to-default-exit-euro-over-loan-slovak-party-leader-says.html
Greece  should default on its debt
and abandon the euro as further loans won’t solve its crisis, a
Slovak lawmaker whose vote in parliament may decide whether the
country backs a bailout package for the currency area said.  The Freedom and Solidarity party, a member of  Slovakia ’s
coalition government, will vote in parliament against the
European bailout system, founder and parliamentary speaker
Richard Sulik said in an interview. His party, known as the SaS,
wants member states to “keep to the rules” guiding the euro
and “start saving money.”  “The first step is, Greece has to go bankrupt,” he said
at his office in the Slovak parliament in Bratislava. “There is
no possibility that” Greece “not now, not in the future, not
in 50 years, will” pay back “the loans. My personal opinion is
it would be better for Greece to leave the eurozone.”  Greece is seeking this month to win a sixth tranche of
loans under last year’s 110 billion-euro ($150 billion) aid
package from the euro region and  International Monetary Fund  and
to avoid a default. Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s
government also wants to benefit from a planned second aid
package of 159 billion euros approved by euro-area leaders on
July 21.  ‘Bad Solution’  The European Commission and the  European Central Bank  have
urged member countries to speed up adoption of the second
package, which includes bolstering the size of the bailout fund
and boosting its powers to provide direct loans to distressed
countries and buy their bonds. Failure to ratify the agreement
in Slovakia would force countries to come up with a different
plan to deal with spreading of the crisis.  “We will vote against the bad solution,” said Sulik, 43.
“I’m sorry if we cause some problems for  Europe .”  EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said he
trusts that Slovakia will ratify the July 21 agreement to
enhance the European Financial Stability Facility.  “I can only appeal and trust that the Slovakian parliament
will be able to approve” the law, he told reporters in Brussels
today.  The failure to solve the crisis, which has threatened to
spread to  Italy  and  Spain , has rocked financial markets. The
euro has weakened 5 percent against the dollar in the past month
and bank stocks have dropped on fear of further writedowns
should Greece default.  Debt Purchases  The ECB began buying Italian debt on Aug. 8 after the 10-
year yield reached a euro-era record 6.4 percent and Berlusconi
agreed to the new budget cuts. Even though the ECB has spent
more than 60 billion euros buying euro-region debt since then,
Italy’s 10-year yield remains around 5.7 percent amid investor
concern about the fallout from a possible Greek default.  Sulik said Italy should sell its  gold reserves  instead of
also participating in any bailout program.  Slovakia, the euro-region’s second-poorest member, was the
only country in the 17-member bloc which didn’t participate in
the first loan for Greece last year after the administration of
Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova , which came to power in July 2010,
reversed the decision of the previous government. Still,
Slovakia didn’t block the creation of the EFSF, a temporary
bailout fund created to help countries with liquidity problems
to bypass market financing.  No Trade  Sulik, an entrepreneur who founded the SaS party a year
before the 2010 elections and led calls for Slovakia to remain
out of the Greek bailout that year, said his party isn’t seeking
to trade its vote on the bailout in exchange for other
legislation.  The coalition has agreed that  Slovakia  will be the last in
the euro area to try and approve changes to the EFSF. The
earliest the 150-seat parliament, in which SaS has 22 deputies,
will vote on the package is in the middle of October, Sulik
said, adding the country won’t seek to delay the vote after all
other members have backed the overhaul.  His party, which wants to keep taxes low, deregulate
markets and decriminalize rules on use of marijuana, has printed
a public brochure as a way to rally support in which it called
the bailouts a “road to socialism.” Sulik stressed that he
sees the conflict over the program outside of the coalition
agreement and doesn’t want to link the vote to a confidence
motion, a move advocated by some coalition officials.  Without the SaS votes, Radicova needs to secure support
from the opposition. Smer, the largest opposition party headed
by former Premier  Robert Fico , has said it won’t vote for the
measures unless the coalition is united in its support. The
 Slovak National Party , another opposition party, has pledged to
reject the package.  “We will have problems, but they will be smaller” than in
a situation where the bailouts continue, Sulik said. The package
“won’t solve the problem. We are only buying time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net . 