-- 
Gryphon Boiler-Room ‘Mastermind’ Kenneth Marsh’s Sentence Postponed

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-09-14T19:25:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/gryphon-boiler-room-mastermind-kenneth-marsh-s-sentence-postponed.html
Kenneth Marsh, the “mastermind”
behind the Gryphon Holdings Inc. boiler-room scheme on  New
York ’s  Staten Island , may be able to withdraw his guilty plea
after objecting to a 10-year prison term, a judge said.  At an Aug. 11 hearing on Marsh’s sentence, U.S. District
Judge Jack Weinstein in Brooklyn, New, York, said he leaned
toward a five-year term and then heard from seven victims of the
scam. Weinstein said at a hearing today he planned to impose 10
years, prompting a protest from Marsh’s lawyer. The sentencing
was postponed to Sept. 20.  “I have now seen this crime in its full depth and what
it’s meant to all these people,” Weinstein said.  Marsh, 44, pleaded guilty in April to one count of
 securities fraud , admitting he misled investors into paying for
phony stock tips. Gryphon charged clients as little as $99 and
as much as $250,000 for access to its investment
recommendations, according to a related civil lawsuit by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Gryphon defrauded
almost 5,500 people out of $20 million, according to the
government.  All 18 defendants in the Gryphon scheme, including members
of its sales force, pleaded guilty. Weinstein sentenced other
Gryphon defendants today, some ranging from three months to 25
months in prison.  “It’s possible for him to withdraw the plea,” one of
Marsh’s lawyers, Alan Futerfas, said after the hearing today.
“We are cautiously optimistic that the court will reconsider
all of the proceedings, including some of the sentences he has
imposed today. His sentence should be proportional to some of
the sentences imposed.”  Jail Since November  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch
in Brooklyn, didn’t have a comment on today’s postponement.  Marsh was charged in April 2010. He has been in jail since
November, after he was accused by prosecutors of engaging in
conduct similar to actions that led to his arrest and he was
unable to raise the additional bail required.  Gryphon falsely claimed to have a trading desk and a $1.4
billion hedge fund, according to the government. The company
sometimes told investors its office was in the New York Stock
Exchange when it was in a strip mall on Staten Island, according
to prosecutors.  Seven former salesmen and Marsh’s ex-wife, Nicole Marsh,
who ran Gryphon with him, cooperated with prosecutors, assistant
U.S. attorneys Roger Burlingame and Patrick S. Sinclair wrote in
an Aug. 8 letter to Weinstein. She was sentenced today to three
months in prison.  Marsh “is the mastermind behind a devastating fraud,”
Burlingame and Sinclair wrote.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Marsh, 10-cr-00480, and the
SEC case is SEC v. Gryphon Holdings Inc., 10-cv-01742, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 