-- 
Gulf Keystone Exits Mol Project to Focus on Kurdish Fields

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-09-14T16:05:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/gulf-keystone-exits-project-with-mol-to-focus-on-kurdish-fields.html
Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. (GKP) , an
oil and gas explorer focusing on Kurdistan, plans to exit a
project with  Hungary ’s Mol Nyrt. to concentrate on other fields
in the region.  Gulf will sell its 20 percent stake in the  Akri-Bijeel
block , with about 2.6 billion barrels of oil in place in the
Iraqi region of Kurdistan, said Chief Executive Officer Todd Kozel. The company plans to pump about 15,000 barrels of oil a
day by the end of the year and is designing a pipeline with at
least 440,000 barrels-a-day capacity to connect its Shaikan
field to the Kirkuk-Ceyhan export pipeline in 2013, he said.  “Kurdistan is a hot market in the merger and acquisition
business,” Kozel said in a phone interview. “There will be a
lot of international  oil companies  looking at the opportunity to
purchase Akri-Bijeel and I don’t think we will be in a position
of working too hard to find a buyer.”  Gulf, which plans to join the FTSE 250 Index next year,
will focus on the Shaikan field development with 10 billion
barrels of oil resources. Vallares Plc, a company founded by BP
Plc’s former CEO  Tony Hayward , is the latest entrant into
Kurdistan exploration following  Hess Corp. (HES) ,  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR) ,
 Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , which secured projects in
the region in the past 12 months.  “While we are drilling in Kurdistan we are discovering 23
million barrels of oil per day,” Kozel said. “That isn’t
duplicated anywhere in the world.”  Shares Fall  Gulf Keystone shares fell 1.2 percent to 179.25 pence in
London trading. The stock has risen 29 percent this month.  “Progress has been swift and numbers look very
encouraging, but the recent rapid rise in the share price
suggests much has already been priced in,”  Richard Griffith , a
London-based analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd., wrote in an
e-mailed report.  Oil exports, which were suspended last week because of
mechanical disruptions, have resumed from Kurdistan, Kozel said.
Gulf expects the Iraqi central government and Kurdistan Regional
Government to overcome disagreements over a proposed petroleum
law and complete the bill by the end of the year.  “While technical problems may have been the main cause,
the new oil law, which the KRG have been extremely unhappy
about, has also been an important factor,” Barclays Plc
analysts Helima Croft and Amrita Sen said in a report e-mailed
today. “Semi-autonomous Kurdistan insists that it has the legal
authority to negotiate its own oil concessions and is seeking a
larger share of the oil revenue that is divvied out by the
central government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  