-- 
Libya’s Sirte Short of Food, Water as Anti-Qaddafi Fighters Pursue Siege

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-09-14T16:51:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/libya-s-sirte-lacking-food-water-as-anti-qaddafi-fighters-pursue-siege.html
Living conditions inside Sirte, the
Libyan coastal city held by forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi , are
deteriorating as food and water run low.  The Misrata Military Council, which helped direct a
rebellion against Qaddafi’s forces, described conditions in his
hometown of Sirte in a statement today. The anti-Qaddafi
National Transitional Council has been trying for several weeks
to negotiate the peaceful handover of Sirte, 450 kilometers (280
miles) southeast of Tripoli, and Bani Walid, 145 kilometers
southeast of the capital, as its fighters lay siege to both.  “There is not much food inside, no water,” Khalifa, 20, a
member of the opposition forces’ Misrata-based Sirte Brigade who
declined to give his full name for fear of reprisals, said in an
interview today after his escape from the city. “This week the
electricity was cut off.”  More than six months of fighting to end Qaddafi’s 42-year
rule have reduced oil output and disrupted power supplies in the
country with  Africa ’s largest crude reserves. NTC forces remain
on the highway to the east and west of Sirte, the Misrata
Military Council said. They retain control of Waddan, 240
kilometers to the south, and have cut all highway links into the
city for pro-Qaddafi forces, it said.  At the bases of anti-Qaddafi fighters who are trying to
take Sirte and Bani Walid, more than 300 armed jeeps, as well as
seven tanks and four artillery pieces, are ready to be deployed
for a final push to gain control of the areas.  “We are still waiting, because we don’t want blood any
more,” Khalifa said.  Loyalist Checkpoints  The fighter, in new combat pants and a green T-shirt, said
he fled Sirte to join other comrades after making Qaddafi
soldiers at a checkpoint west of Sirte believe he was going to
Zam Zam, a settlement midway between pro-Qaddafi lines and rebel
units 125 kilometers west. Once through the checkpoint, the road
was open to rebel lines, Khalifa said.  The central district of Sirte, home to merchants originally
from Misrata, was ringed by pro-Qaddafi checkpoints that
prevented food from getting to the civilians within it. The
streets of Sirte are patrolled by militia members from the
Qaddafi tribe, which inhabits smaller villages in hills south of
Sirte itself, and most of the loyalist soldiers are also from
the tribe, Khalifa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Stephen  in Misrata through the Dubai newsroom at 
   barden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 