-- 
Microsoft Reports 500,000 Downloads of New Windows Preview

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-09-14T22:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/microsoft-reports-500-000-downloads-of-new-windows-preview.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said developers
have downloaded 500,000 copies of the preview version of Windows
8 since its debut yesterday, evidence of interest in an
operating system that will vie with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  software.  “While it’s clear we have a long way to go still with
Windows 8, we’ve been gratified by the reactions and the
interest,” Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  said today at
a conference for developers in Anaheim,  California . One area
needing more work: a Windows 8 version that runs on chips with
technology from ARM Holdings Plc, which is “very, very
important to us,” Ballmer said.  Microsoft is rushing to complete Windows 8 because the
company wants an operating system capable of running thinner,
lighter tablet machines with battery power that can rival
Apple’s iPad. That need has led the world’s largest software
maker to make its Windows personal-computer operating system
compatible with ARM-based chips for the first time. ARM
processors typically run smartphones and other mobile gadgets.  At the conference, Microsoft gave attendees a prototype
machine running an  Intel Corp. (INTC)  chip rather than an ARM model, a
sign that version is farther along. Microsoft hasn’t said when
Windows 8 devices will go on sale.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , rose 46 cents to
$26.50 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The
shares have lost 5.1 percent of their value this year.  ‘Re-Imagining’ Company  While Microsoft Windows President Steven Sinofsky yesterday
said that Windows 8 “re-imagines” what Windows can do, Ballmer
today said that the effort -- as well as Microsoft’s push into
Internet-based cloud services and new types of hardware --
represent a “re-imagining” of the entire company.  Even as it focuses on tablets, phones and cloud computing,
the company will keep Windows at the heart of its strategy,
Ballmer said.  “Windows is at the center,” he said. “People question
whether that is a good idea. I think it’s an exceptionally good
idea.”  Windows Phone, the mobile-phone software that Microsoft
released last year, hasn’t performed as well as Ballmer would
have liked, he said. Still, positive reception from those who
have bought the devices, as well as the support from handset
makers, gives him hope for the future, he said.  “I’m not saying I love where we are, but I am very
optimistic on where we can be,” Ballmer said.  When asked if Microsoft’s Internet-search partnership with
Yahoo was at risk, given the company’s ouster of CEO  Carol Bartz , Ballmer said he’s not worried.  “The partnership will remain strong no matter where they
want to take their business or whoever they happen to install
next as CEO,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  