-- 
Time Warner Cable Net Customer Additions Stronger Than Expected, CEO Says

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-14T21:14:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/time-warner-cable-net-customer-additions-stronger-than-expected-ceo-says.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) ’s customer
additions were stronger in August than the company had expected
when it reported second-quarter results, said Chief Executive
Officer Glenn Britt. Shares rose the most in 11 months.  Britt said the company was showing “relative strength” in
net additions of video, voice and high-speed data customers
compared with 2010. He estimated further growth in September,
when seasonal trends including students leaving for college and
the beginning of the football season lead to more subscriptions.  “We’re doing a lot better than we thought back in the
second quarter,” said Britt, speaking at the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Media, Communications & Entertainment Conference
in  Beverly Hills ,  California .  The second-largest U.S. cable company lost 130,000
residential video subscribers, while adding 54,000 residential
broadband customers in the second quarter, lower than some
analyst estimates. Chief Operating Officer Rob Marcus said
during the company’s conference call in July that the company
saw “weakness” continue into the early part of the third
quarter. Time Warner Cable shares had fallen 16 percent before
today since the earnings report on July 28.  Time Warner Cable rose $2.67, or 4.3 percent, to $64.65 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the largest
one-day gain since Nov. 4. Rivals  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) 
and  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  also rose on the news.  ‘Remaining Resilient’  “It could be that cable and media businesses are remaining
resilient despite what’s gone on in financial markets and
consumer sentiment,” said Jaison Blair, an analyst at Telsey
Advisory Group in New York. “The cable stocks have sold off a
lot, they’re all buying back shares, and these are still very
high-quality businesses.”  Cablevision, the fifth largest U.S. cable company by
subscribers, gained $1.16, or 7 percent, to $17.83 at 4 p.m. on
the New York Stock Exchange. Shares have fallen 25 percent this
year.  Charter, the fourth-largest U.S. cable company by
subscribers, rose $1.59, or 3.3 percent, to $49.23 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  