-- 
IMF Says Inflation Targets Should Exclude Food, Energy Prices

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-09-14T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/imf-says-inflation-targets-should-exclude-food-energy-prices.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
said central banks should focus on measures of inflation that
exclude food and energy in their efforts to keep the cost of
living under control.  Central banks “should set and communicate monetary policy
based on developments in underlying inflation,” which it said
reflects trends that are “likely to be sustained over the
medium term,” the Washington-based IMF said in a chapter of its
World Economic Outlook released today.  The  European Central Bank  has an inflation “goal” of just
under 2 percent, and the  Bank of England  and Bank of Canada both
have targets of 2 percent. The Bank of Canada also uses core
inflation as an “operational guide” that gives policy makers a
sense of price trends. While the  Federal Reserve  doesn’t have a
formal target, policy makers say they seek to keep inflation at
1.7 percent to 2 percent in the long term.  Central banks around the world are contending with rising
food and energy prices, which the IMF said pose a greater threat
to developing nations, where food accounts for a larger portion
of household budgets. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, in a speech
on Sept. 8, said inflation is likely to moderate as the
“transitory” influence of higher food and gasoline prices
wanes.  “Because shocks to commodity price inflation are typically
beyond the control of policy makers, hard to predict, and often
not sustained, central banks seeking to establish credibility
are generally better off setting and communicating their
monetary policy in terms of underlying inflation rather than
headline inflation,” the IMF said.  Subject of Debate  The Fed’s focus on so-called  core inflation  has been a
subject of debate among policy makers. Federal Reserve Bank of
St. Louis President  James Bullard  this year has argued for an
inflation target that includes food and energy, lest it “create
the appearance of avoiding responsibility for inflation.”  Particularly in developing economies, a target on overall
inflation can damage the credibility of the central bank when
prices of commodities result in gains above the target, the IMF
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  