-- 
Indian Inflation Quickens to 13-Month High, Adds to Interest-Rate Pressure

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-09-14T07:20:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/indian-inflation-quickens-to-13-month-high-adds-to-interest-rate-pressure.html
India ’s inflation accelerated to
the highest level in more than a year, maintaining pressure for
further interest-rate increases even as economic growth slows.  The benchmark wholesale-price index rose 9.78 percent in
August from a year earlier after a 9.22 percent jump in July,
the commerce ministry said in a statement in New Delhi today.
The median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
9.64 percent gain.  The Reserve Bank of India will probably raise rates by a
quarter of a percentage point at the Sept. 16 policy meeting,
according to 11 of 12 economists in another Bloomberg survey.
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has to weigh the risks to expansion
from  Europe ’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery against
price pressures, which may be stoked by a weaker rupee.  “It is a bad enough number that the RBI cannot switch off
just yet,” said  Rajeev Malik , a senior economist at CLSA Asia
Pacific Markets in  Singapore . “The global backdrop is an
important opposing force but the domestic inflation numbers
don’t leave much room. So, some action has to happen.”  The Indian rupee dropped 0.4 percent to 47.79 at 12:33 p.m.
in Mumbai. The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index slid 0.1
percent. The yield on the 7.8 percent bond due April 2021 fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.32 percent.  Worst Performer  The currency has weakened 6.5 percent against the dollar
this quarter, the worst performer in  Asia , threatening higher
import costs.  Indian Oil Corp., the country’s biggest refiner, will take
a decision on increasing gasoline prices tomorrow, Finance
Director P.K. Goyal said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV
today. Losses from selling fuels below cost are increasing
following the rupee’s decline against the dollar, Goyal said.  The fall in the rupee could be a “short-term disruption,”
R. Gopalan, secretary, Department of Economic Affairs in the
finance ministry, said in New Delhi today.  Inflation in India is the highest among the so-called BRICS
nations. Policy makers have raised borrowing costs by a total of
325 basis points since mid-March 2010, the fastest round of
increases since the  Reserve Bank  was established in 1935,
Bloomberg data show. The central bank’s repurchase rate is 8
percent.  BRICS Inflation  Consumer prices rose 7.2 percent in  Brazil , 8.2 percent in
 Russia  and 6.2 percent in  China  last month from a year earlier.
In  South Africa , they climbed 5.3 percent in July.  Inflation is a political issue in India as it erodes
spending power in a nation where the  World Bank  estimates more
than three-quarters of the population live on less than $2 a
day.  India may boost borrowing costs further to tame inflation,
the Asian Development Bank said today as it cut the nation’s
growth forecast for the current financal year.  India’s economy may expand 7.9 percent in the year ending
March 31, lower than the 8.2 percent growth estimated in April,
the ADB said in a report.  India’s industrial production growth slowed to 3.3 percent
in July, the weakest pace in almost two years, signaling
consumer demand is waning in Asia’s third-largest economy.  Sales at carmakers including  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  fell
for the second straight month in August from a year earlier.
India’s steel demand this fiscal year will probably grow at half
the pace forecast in May as soaring rates damp purchases of cars
and homes and stall public works projects, according to G.K.
Basak, executive secretary of the steel ministry’s joint plant
committee.  Still, “given the RBI’s commitment to battle persistent
high inflation, there will be further monetary tightening in the
remaining months of FY2011 until there is credible evidence of
inflation trending to the RBI’s target range,” the ADB said.  In his last policy decision on July 26, Subbarao raised the
central bank’s repurchase rate by half a percentage point and
predicted inflation by the end of March will be 7 percent, a
percentage point higher than his previous guidance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  