-- 
Infiniti Plans Mercedes-Based Compact in Renault-Daimler Pact

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-09-14T13:47:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/infiniti-plans-mercedes-based-compact-in-renault-daimler-pact.html
The Renault-Nissan alliance plans
to build a compact car for the Infiniti brand using technology
from  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz division, as the automakers
extend cooperation aimed at $4 billion in cost savings.  The small car from Nissan Motor Co.’s Infiniti is due to be
introduced in 2014 and will be based on the same platform as
Mercedes-Benz’s B-Class to reduce spending and speed
development,  Carlos Ghosn , who heads both  Renault SA (RNO)  and Nissan,
said today at the International Motor Show in  Frankfurt .  The new Infiniti model, which Ghosn said will probably be
available globally, marks a deepening of a partnership that
began in April 2010. The companies also agreed to use Renault
motors and Daimler batteries for electric versions of Daimler’s
Smart and Renault SA’s Twingo, which will share a platform, or
chassis and major components.  “Our strategic cooperation is moving on a fast track and
has now extended well beyond the original agreement,” Ghosn
said at a joint press briefing with Daimler Chief Executive
Officer Dieter Zetsche.  The automakers entered the partnership, which encompasses
engine sharing and a jointly developed delivery van, to lower
expenses, especially for low-margin small cars that have become
increasingly important for attracting urban customers and
meeting regulators’ demands to cut fuel consumption.  Original Agreement  Under the original agreement, cooperation between Mercedes-
Benz and Infiniti would have been limited to supplying the
luxury unit of Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan with diesel and
gasoline motors.  The companies didn’t specify where the joint Infiniti model
will be built. Ghosn, who wants to produce vehicles for the
brand outside  Japan  because of the yen’s exchange rate against
the dollar, said a site will be chosen later. Stuttgart,
Germany-based Daimler may not have space to build the vehicle at
its two small-car plants, as it expects to fill capacity with
demand for new Mercedes-Benz models, Zetsche said.  Three- and four-cylinder engines built by Boulogne-
Billancourt, France-based Renault will be made available for
Mercedes-Benz compacts with the introduction of the A-Class
hatchback, Zetsche said, adding that Mercedes expects to supply
more than 10,000 four- and six-cylinder engines to Infiniti
under the partnership.  Additional projects may involve upscale Renault models
using Mercedes-Benz technology as the companies explore further
cooperation, Ghosn said. The first tangible sign of the
partnership will be a small delivery van from Renault and
Mercedes, which will be introduced next year, the CEO said.  Mercedes-Benz is at the Frankfurt show to introduce a new
version of the B-Class, the first in a line of five compacts
underpinning the manufacturer’s effort to retake the luxury-car
industry lead from  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. (BMW)  All five models
will share the same front-wheel-drive platform.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Frankfurt via 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Frost in Frankfurt via 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  