-- 
Innkeepers Wins Approval to Extend Control Over Bankruptcy Until November

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-09-14T17:34:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/innkeepers-allowed-to-extend-control-over-bankruptcy-case-until-november.html
Innkeepers USA Trust  won approval
to extend control over its bankruptcy amid a dispute with
Cerberus Capital Management LP and  Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT)  over
whether they will buy 64 of its hotels.  The new deadline to file a Chapter 11 plan will be Nov. 10
once a formal order is submitted, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman said today in  Manhattan . Control over the case had been
set to expire Oct. 1. Innkeepers scaled back a request to extend
the date to Jan. 19, saying it would revisit the issue Nov. 9 if
needed.  The operator of 71 hotels, including Residence Inns,
Marriott hotels and Hampton Inns, received court approval of a
plan in June, before Cerberus and Chatham sought to cancel their
$1.1 billion purchase citing a change in market conditions or
Innkeepers’ business. Innkeepers sued, saying there has been no
such change since reaching the binding agreement May 16.  Cerberus and Chatham haven’t disclosed what the change is,
Daniel Donovan, a lawyer for  Palm Beach , Florida-based
Innkeepers, told Chapman today. Innkeepers is still in the
investigation stage of its lawsuit against the firms, he said.  Separately, Innkeepers said in court papers filed today
that it amended a loan agreement for $17.5 million with Solar
Finance Inc., an affiliate of Lehman Ali, to make the maturity
date Sept. 19 rather than Sept. 12.  Plan Rejected  Innkeepers, whose parent is managed by an affiliate of  Leon Black ’s private-equity firm Apollo Global Management LLC, filed
for bankruptcy in July 2010 with a pre-arranged reorganization
plan proposed by Apollo and Lehman Ali, a unit of bankrupt
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Creditors rejected that plan.  Cerberus and Chatham later won an auction to acquire the 64
hotels after topping a $970.7 million offer from Lehman Ali and
Five Mile Capital Partners. Innkeepers’ initial Chapter 11
petition listed assets of $1.5 billion against debt totaling
$1.52 billion.  “We’ve been evaluating various paths forward and
considering how litigation will interplay with the plan,” Brian
Lennon, a lawyer for Innkeepers, told Chapman today. The company
is considering a way for hotels that aren’t involved in the
dispute to exit bankruptcy during the lawsuit, he said.  The material adverse change clause in Innkeepers’ agreement
allowed Cerberus and Chatham  to pull out of the deal for “any
condition, change or development that could reasonably be
expected to have a material adverse effect on the business,
assets, liabilities or operations, condition or prospect” of
Innkeepers.  Chatham, a Palm Beach-based hotel-investment company, owns
properties under Hilton brands including DoubleTree and Hampton
Inn, and Marriott brands including Courtyard and Residence Inn,
according to its website. Cerberus, a private equity investor,
is based in  New York .  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 