-- 
Internet-Naming Authority Needs Ethics Rules, U.S. Senator Says

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-09-14T22:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/internet-naming-authority-needs-ethics-rules-u-s-senator-says.html
The organization that manages the
Internet’s domain-name system under contract with the U.S.
Commerce Department should have “revolving door” ethics rules
for its leadership, a U.S. lawmaker said today.  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, wrote in a letter to
the Commerce Department that it should include ethics and
conflict-of-interest rules in a future contract to manage the
domain-name system, which includes dot-com, dot-org and dot-gov.  Any group overseeing the system “is hugely important in
regulating the multimillion-dollar domain name industry” and
should be “subject to the same financial-disclosure, ethics or
conflict-of-interest rules as executive leadership at federal
agencies or in Congress,” Wyden wrote.  The nonprofit Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and
Numbers has performed that function since 1998, and its current
contract with the Commerce Department is due to expire in March.  Icann voted on June 20 to approve a plan to allow
potentially hundreds of new Web suffixes such as dot-bank and
dot-nyc to spur online innovation. Trade groups representing
large corporations and advertisers have criticized the
expansion, saying the change offers few benefits while
increasing businesses’ costs.  Four days after the vote, Peter Dengate Thrush, the group’s
chairman, finished his term and within a month joined a London
company called Top Level Domain Holdings Ltd., which intends to
acquire Web suffixes created by the new plan and offer Internet
registry services.  Public Comments  Dengate Thrush’s move and that of another former Icann
employee who joined the Financial Services Roundtable, a
Washington-based lobbying group whose members include  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , drew criticism from
government watchdogs.  The Commerce Department’s National Telecommunications and
Information Administration, which oversees the Icann contract,
is reviewing public comments on whether the terms should be
amended, and has said it is considering adding conflict-of-
interest rules.  NTIA plans to open the contract for bidding this fall. The
agency has received Wyden’s letter and plans to respond “in an
appropriate manner,” Moira Vahey, an NTIA spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  