-- 
Intel $5 Billion Bond Sale is First Non-Convert Issue Since ’87

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 
2011-09-14T22:21:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/intel-plans-first-straight-bond-issue-in-24-years-to-fund-stock-buybacks.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
chipmaker, sold $5 billion of debt in its first non-convertible
bond offering in more than two decades as issuance revives in
September with borrowing costs at about record lows.  Proceeds will mainly be used to fund stock buybacks,  Santa
Clara , California-based Intel said today in a statement
distributed by  Business Wire . The chipmaker last tapped the
market for bonds that aren’t convertible into stock in 1987,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , which is buying Royal
Bank of Canada’s U.S. retail banking unit,  American Express Co. (AXP) 
and mining firm  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  were among companies that sold
$12.2 billion of debt today as yields on investment-grade
corporate debt hover within 30 basis points, or 0.3 percentage
point, of the lowest on record, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. A combination of the weak stock market and low
rates are likely driving Intel’s bond sale, said Rajeev Sharma
of First Investors Management Co.  “Any name that hasn’t come to market with typical straight
up, fixed-rate debt is pretty well received because there’s
demand for a new name, new interest and I think it’s primed to
do pretty well,” said Sharma, a  money manager  who helps oversee
$1.5 billion of investment-grade debt. “It’s very cheap
financing.”  Intel raised $1.5 billion of 1.95 percent, five-year notes
that pay 110 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A $2 billion portion of
10-year 3.3 percent debt pays a 135 basis point spread and $1.5
billion of 4.8 percent 30-year bonds pay 160 basis points more
than the benchmark.  Strong Demand  The company is graded A1 by Moody’s Investors Service and
A+ by  Standard & Poor’s , Bloomberg data show.  The average A rated bond pays a 217 basis-point spread and
the average AA graded company debenture offers a 187 basis-point
spread, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The chipmaker plans to use remaining proceeds from the sale
for general corporate purposes, according to today’s statement.  Yields on investment-grade debt fell to 3.74 percent from
4.1 percent at the start of the year, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. That’s up from a record low of 3.45 percent on
Aug. 4.  PNC, based in Pittsburgh, sold $1.25 billion of 2.7 percent
five-year debt; American Express Credit Corp. issued $1.3
billion of 2.8 percent five-year notes; and  Rio Tinto  sold $2
billion of 5-, 10-and 30-year debt, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net 
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  