-- 
Investor Quinlan’s Dublin House Said to Be Near Sale to Belgian Embassy

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-09-14T10:11:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/investor-quinlan-s-dublin-house-said-to-be-near-sale-to-belgian-embassy.html
A former Dublin home owned by Derek
Quinlan, once one of Ireland’s richest men, may be sold and used
by the Belgian embassy, said two people with knowledge of the
matter.  The Belgian government is in talks to buy the refurbished
Victorian-era property on Elgin Road in Dublin for 2.5 million
euros ($3.4 million) to 2.9 million euros, said one of the two
people, who declined to be identified because the talks aren’t
concluded. The sale may close by the end of the year, according
to the person.  Former taxman Quinlan was one of the highest-profile real-
estate investors during the Irish property boom. In 2004,
his private equity company, from which he stepped down in 2009,
led investors buying the Savoy Hotel group for about 1 billion
euros. Ireland’s National Asset Management Agency in April
appointed Paul McDowell of  Knight Frank  Ireland as receiver to
nine Quinlan family properties after he failed to present an
“appropriate” debt plan, the realtor said on April 14.  The 6-bedroom semi-detached house has a floor area of
about 372 square meters, according to Knight Frank. The realtor
had been seeking 2.95 million euros for the  property , according
to Knight Frank’s website. The property is close to the U.S. and
U.K. embassies.  Quinlan bought the house in 2006 for 7 million euros, and
spent more refurbishing it, the Irish Times said in March,
without citing anyone.  A Belgian embassy spokesman declined to comment. McDowell at
Knight Frank declined to comment on talks with potential buyers.  Set up in 2009 to purge banks of risky commercial real
estate loans, NAMA paid 30.2 billion euros in 2010 for loans
with a face value of 71.2 billion euros, after the real estate
boom collapsed in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  