-- 
IPO for Aerospace Company Avio Reconsidered

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-09-14T13:39:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/ipo-for-aerospace-company-avio-reconsidered.html
Cinven Ltd. may delay its initial
public offering for Italian aerospace company Avio as market
turmoil saps demand for new stock, said two people with
knowledge of the transaction.  Cinven, which planned the Avio IPO for this year, may push
it to early 2012, said the people, who declined to be identified
as the process is private. The IPO may fetch as much as 1.5
billion euros ($2.1 billion), said one person. The buyout firm
will decide on timing in a few weeks, one of the people said.  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis has dragged stocks down
across the continent, making some investors wary of initial
stock sales. At least 23 IPOs have been postponed or delayed in
western Europe in 2011, almost twice the amount a year earlier.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index, Europe’s equity benchmark, has
dropped 18 percent since the start of July and is now near its
lowest level in two years.  A spokesman for London-based Cinven declined to comment.
The buyout firm, which is seeking 5 billion euros for a new
fund, is planning to sell assets including a stake in Ziggo BV,
the Dutch cable-television company, to return cash to investors.  Cinven bought Avio in 2006 from the  Carlyle Group  and
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  in a deal that valued the company at about 2.6
billion euros. Finmeccanica,  Italy ’s biggest defense company,
still owns 14 percent of Avio, according to its website.  Avio, founded more than a century ago, makes components
used in propulsion systems for helicopters and other aircraft.
Revenue topped 1.75 billion euros in 2010, according to the
Torino-based company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at  
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at  
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at  
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  