-- 
Israeli Inflation Probably Slowed in August on Consumer Protests

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-09-14T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/israeli-inflation-probably-slowed-in-august-on-consumer-protests.html
Israeli inflation probably eased in
August for a second month as consumer protests brought down food
costs and end-of-season sales reduced clothing and shoe prices.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.2 percent from 3.4 percent,
according to the median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The  consumer price index  advanced 0.3 percent from
the previous month, according to the survey. The Jerusalem-based
 Central Bureau of Statistics  is scheduled to release the data at
6:30 p.m. local time today.  “Inflation is moderating,” Victor Bahar, economics
department deputy manager at Bank Hapoalim Ltd. in  Tel Aviv ,
said in a telephone interview. “The consumer protests brought
down food prices, and the government may decide to reduce
indirect taxes as well.”  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  pledged Sept. 4 to ease
the cost of living after rallies brought more than 400,000
people onto the streets. Netanyahu said he will act on
recommendations from a panel headed by Tel Aviv University
economist Manuel Trajtenberg that are due by the end of this
month and aim to provide cheaper housing and bring down prices
for food, child care and transportation.  On Aug. 29,  Bank of Israel  Governor Stanley Fischer held
the benchmark  interest rate  at 3.25 percent for a third month
after raising it 10 times in the past two years. Inflation has
exceeded the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent target since
the beginning of the year.  Interest-Rate Swaps  Two-year interest-rate swaps, an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, fell four basis points
to 2.9 percent. The two-year breakeven rate, which reflects
expectations for inflation over the period, dropped eight basis
points to 184, the lowest since at least June 2010. That implies
an average annual inflation rate of about 1.84 percent.  Economists’ 12-month inflation expectations declined to 2.5
percent from 2.9 percent a month earlier, the central bank
reported Aug. 21, bringing it to its lowest since March 2010.  The Bank of  Israel  cut its forecast for economic growth
this year and next on Aug. 2, saying debt-reduction plans in
developed countries may lead to a global slowdown. The economy
will expand 4.8 percent in 2011 and 3.9 percent in 2012, the
central bank said, lowering its forecasts from 5.2 percent and
4.2 percent.  Shufersal Ltd. (SAE) , the country’s largest food retailer by
market value, has declined by about 30 percent since June, when
the protests began, almost twice the decline in the TA-100
benchmark index. Alon Holdings Blue Square Israel Ltd., the
second biggest, has declined by close to 40 percent over the
same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 