-- 
Mitsui Fudosan, Mitsubishi Estate to Beat Japanese REIT Shares, UBS Says

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   S a m   W a i t e
-- 
2011-09-14T00:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/mitsui-fudosan-mitsubishi-estate-to-beat-japanese-reit-shares-ubs-says.html
Mitsui Fudosan Co., Mitsubishi
Estate Co. and other large Japanese developers have more
attractive valuations and will likely outperform real estate
investment trusts, the nation’s top-rated property analyst said.  Developers are trading at a discount of about 50 percent to
their net asset values, while Japanese REITs or J-REITs are 10
percent less than the measure, said Toshihiko Okino, a senior
analyst at UBS Securities Japan Ltd. Shares of developers may
start rebounding in six months after some volatility in the next
two to three months amid global economic uncertainties, he said.  “Developers look cheaper than J-REITs,” said Okino in a
telephone interview in  Tokyo . “If we can see some prospects of
an economic recovery toward next year going forward, we can
probably expect the rebound of developers’ share prices.”  The 44-member  Topix Real Estate Index (TPREAL)  has declined 23
percent, almost twice the 12 percent drop in the Tokyo Stock
Exchange REIT Index, since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Large developers are set to gain over the next six to 12
months as rents may recover when supply peaks in April, and as
demand increases for high-quality buildings after the temblor,
said Okino, ranked by Institutional Investor as the top Japanese
housing and real estate analyst for eight straight years.  Rents for buildings less than a year old have dropped 36
percent to 23,285 yen per tsubo from a peak of 36,607 in
November 2007, according to Miki Shoji Co., a privately held
brokerage. One tsubo, a standard measure of property area in
 Japan , is 3.3 square meters or 35.5 square feet.  Stronger Demand  “Demand for class-A buildings is even stronger after the
earthquake,” Okino said. “High-quality class-A buildings have
become quite affordable. We will probably see some stabilization
of rent decline in the spring of next year.”  Okino has a 1,500 yen target price for both Mitsui Fudosan
and Mitsubishi Estate. Mitsui Fudosan climbed 2.3 percent to
1,229 yen at the close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange yesterday,
and Mitsubishi Estate gained 2.2 percent to 1,231 yen.  The  Bank of Japan  has bought 42.6 billion yen ($553 million)
in Japanese real estate investment trusts since December as part
of an effort to stimulate the economy, the central bank said on
its website. That includes two purchases of 1.7 billion yen each
on Sept. 9 and Sept. 12.  The government should instead focus on the deregulation of
REITs such as allowing them to issue convertible bonds or
retaining  capital gains  or profits for dividend payouts, Okino
said.  “The Bank of Japan’s purchase probably won’t support the
J-REIT index anymore,” said Okino. “We will need a much more
fundamental improvement such as vacancy rate or deregulation.
That would sustain the performance of J-REITs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  