-- 
J&J Must Face 2012 Arkansas Trial Over Risperdal Marketing

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   E r i c   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-09-14T23:33:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/j-j-to-face-2012-arkansas-trial-over-risperdal-marketing-efforts.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  must face a trial
over  Arkansas  officials’ claims the drugmaker hid the risks of
its anti-psychotic drug Risperdal when selling it to residents
covered by the state’s Medicaid program, a judge ruled.  J&J, the second-biggest maker of health products, will face
a March 2012 trial of a lawsuit filed by Arkansas Attorney
General Dustin McDaniel over the company’s Risperdal marketing
campaign, Circuit Judge  Tim Fox  in  Little Rock  said today. Fox
rejected the company’s bid to have the state’s case thrown out.  Arkansas officials contend J&J and one of its units
defrauded the state’s Medicaid program by failing to properly
outline the anti-psychotic medicine’s risks in its warning
label. They also allege J&J officials deceptively marketed the
drug as safer and better than competing medicines.  The U.S. has been investigating Risperdal sales practices
since 2004, including allegations the company marketed the drug
for unapproved uses, J&J executives said in an Aug. 9 filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In May,
company officials said in another regulatory filing that they
had reserved funds to resolve the government’s Risperdal claims.
J&J didn’t say how much had been set aside.  J&J officials said a little more than a month ago that the
drugmaker had reached an agreement with federal prosecutors to
resolve a criminal charge over its Risperdal marketing
practices.  Greg Panico , a spokesman for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based J&J, didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment after
regular business hours today.  Sales Peak  Risperdal’s global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007 and
declined after the company lost patent protection. The drug
generated $3.4 billion in sales in 2008, or 5.4 percent of New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J’s total revenue, according to
company filings. Sales of the drug fell to $527 million last
year, according to a January earnings report.  Risperdal  Consta , the long-acting version of the
antipsychotic drug, generated $1.5 billion in sales last year
for J&J, according to company filings.  Arkansas officials contend J&J and its Ortho-McNeil-Janssen
Pharmaceuticals unit  violated  the state’s trade-practices laws
and defrauded its Medicaid program by failing to include a
proper warning about the drug’s links to diabetes on its label.  The state’s lawyers also argue the companies marketed the
drugs for “unapproved uses, including various symptoms in
children and the elderly” after being warned by federal to halt
such sales, according to the state’s suit.  Penalties Sought  The state seeks a penalty of as much as $10,000 for each
Risperdal prescription written in Arkansas over a 13-year period
starting in 1994 in connection with the Medicaid fraud claim,
 Robert Cowan , one of the state’s lawyers, said in an interview
in August.  J&J’s lawyers countered J&J and Janssen officials provided
proper warnings about Risperdal’s diabetes risks on the drug’s
label and that federal regulators had approved that label.  The state’s efforts to tie its labeling claims to Medicare
fraud should fail because “compliance with federal drug
labeling statutes and regulations is not a condition of payment
or participating in a” state Medicaid program, the companies’
lawyers said in a July 29 court filing.  State Lawsuits  J&J and the Janssen unit have been sued by 11 states
seeking reimbursement for Medicaid or other public funds paid on
Risperdal prescriptions, the company said. The lawsuits allege
that J&J promoted the drug for dementia, mood and anxiety
disorders and other unapproved uses, or downplayed risks.  Last year, jurors in  Louisiana  ordered the drugmaker to
pay almost $258 million to state officials for making misleading
claims about the anti-psychotic medicine’s safety. J&J has
appealed.  In June, a South Carolina judge ordered J&J officials to
pay $327 million in penalties for deceptively marketing the
medicine. J&J has asked the judge to throw that verdict out.  The Arkansas case is State of Arkansas v. Ortho-McNeil-
Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc., CV07-15345, Pulaski County Circuit
Court (Little Rock).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Frances in Little Rock, Arkansas, at  eric.francis@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  