-- 
Japan Warehouses Draw Investors on Returns Post Quake

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-09-19T02:47:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/japan-warehouses-draw-investors-after-quake-as-office-market-returns-stall.html
When Prologis Inc. built  Japan ’s
first logistics center in 2002 for inventory management, storage
and distribution, potential clients and lenders told the company
to invest in malls or apartments instead.  “Investment in logistics facilities was unheard of in
Japan,” said Tokyo-based Miki Yamada, president of Japan
operations at Prologis, the world’s biggest warehouse owner.
“Everyone said it doesn’t work and no one was interested.”  Now, Japan’s distribution centers are rebounding from
record-high vacancies two years ago amid demand for modern
storage after the March 11  earthquake  and tsunami destroyed
industrial spaces, drawing investors looking for returns amid a
slump in the office market. Investment in logistics may surge to
more than 2 trillion yen ($26 billion) this year from almost
zero in 2002, according to CB Richard Ellis Group Inc.  “The earthquake in March reaffirmed the importance of
logistics and supply chain management,” said Yamada. “As
companies continue to seek efficiencies, the demand for modern,
efficient distribution facilities will undoubtedly continue to
increase moving forward.”  Investment Plans  Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP) , the biggest owner of
Japanese industrial properties, started exclusive talks in July
to buy about 20 properties from LaSalle Investment Management
Inc., two people with direct knowledge of the deal said then,
outbidding  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and Blackstone Group LP. Mitsubishi
Estate Co., Japan’s largest developer by market value, entered
the industrial market for the first time in April with a Tokyo
Bay logistics center it’s building with Mitsui & Co., the
nation’s second-largest trading house.  Mitsui Fudosan Co., Japan’s biggest developer by sales,
said on Sept. 8 it may start investing in storage and
distribution centers in the country for the first time.  Sales of industrial properties nearly doubled in the first
half of the year to $1.14 billion from the same period last year,
while transactions of office buildings fell 15 percent to $7.54
billion, according Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based
research firm.  Industrial spaces returned 9.2 percent on average for the
year ended April 30, twice that for residential properties,
while office buildings offered a loss, according to London-based
Investment Property Databank Ltd.  Becoming Popular  “Logistics properties have become popular,” said Tokyo-
based Naoshi Ogikubo, chief executive officer of Diamond Realty
Management Inc., a unit of Mitsubishi, Japan’s biggest trading
house. “That may lead to a gradual increase in property prices
for modern warehouses as the office and retail leasing markets
remain tough.”  The higher return of distribution and storage centers has
been partly helped by a shortage in supply after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 froze credit
markets. The addition of new space fell by about half in 2009
and plunged 74 percent in 2010 in Japan, Los Angeles-based CB
Richard Ellis said.  Office rents have declined for three years in  Tokyo  and
stayed at a record low for a seventh month in August, according
to Miki Shoji Co., a privately held brokerage company. The
vacancy rate rose to a peak of 9.2 percent in March after the
earthquake hit Japan’s northeastern region.  Vacancy Rates  The vacancy rate for warehouses fell to 7 percent in June
from a peak of 20 percent in September 2009, CB Richard Ellis
said. For Tokyo’s office buildings 8.7 percent of the space was
vacant as of August, according to Miki Shoji.  The shortage of new logistics centers and warehouses may
lift effective rents, or the amount tenants pay property owners,
by as much as 10 percent over the next six to 12 months, Yamada
of  Prologis (PLD)  said.  Industrial rents in Tokyo are the most expensive in the
world, followed by London and  Singapore , according to CB Richard
Ellis. Annual average warehouse rental in Tokyo was $22.15 per
square foot in the first quarter, it said.  Rents have been more stable for industrial spaces. Average
rents for Tokyo distribution centers fell 3 percent to 5,510 yen
per tsubo a month in 2010 from 2007, according to CB Richard
Ellis, while office rents dropped 20 percent in the period,
according to Miki Shoji. One tsubo, a standard measure of
property area in Japan, is 3.3 square meters or 35.5 square feet.  The rental return has helped the number of warehouse owners
in Japan double in the past five years, according to CB Richard
Ellis. Yet, modern logistics facilities account for only 2
percent of total warehouse space in Japan, it said.  Online Shopping  “The rent for warehouse properties is very stable and
there is plenty of room for growth in this investment market,”
said Tokyo-based Junichi Taguchi, managing director of
industrial services at CB Richard Ellis. “We expect to see more
new players coming to the market.”  Distribution centers also are benefiting as more people
shop on the Internet, driving demand from online retailers and
transportation companies that require larger, more modern
centers for storing and handling goods.  Total sales of e-commerce in Japan exceeded department
store sales for the first time in 2010, surging 16.3 percent to
7.8 trillion yen, according to  Japan Department Stores
Association  and  the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry .
Nationwide department store sales in Japan fell 3.1 percent to
6.29 trillion yen for the same period.  Modern Warehouses  “Modern logistic facilities have really become the store
front for e-commerce,” said Jeffrey Schwartz, deputy chairman
of Singapore-based Global Logistic.  With that first distribution center in Shinkiba near Tokyo
Bay, San-Francisco based Prologis pioneered leasing large
facilities to Japanese logistics companies that offer a range of
services such as inventory management, storage and distribution
of goods. Prior to Prologis, firms traditionally owned their own
storage space or leased space from warehouse operators.  Sales of industrial sites, which drew little competition
previously, now attract as many as a dozen bidders, Prologis’s
Yamada said.  “Even banks approach us to see if there are any lending
opportunities,” he said.  The accessibility of trucks at older warehouses in Japan
tends to be limited to the ground floor, Yamada said. Elevators
are used to carry merchandise, which is less efficient compared
with modern facilities where trucks reach every floor via ramps,
he said. The design, which cut the time needed to load and
unload goods by about 39 percent, is now standard for logistics
properties in Japan and is also being used in Singapore and  Hong
Kong  where land is scarce, according to Prologis.  ‘Robust Demand’  Prologis, which merged with AMB Property Corp. in June,
commanded 20 percent of the warehouse market in Japan in terms
of space as of June, while Global Logistic had a 22 percent
share, according to CB Richard Ellis data.  Prologis sold its stake in a Japan industrial property fund
more than two years ago to  Government of Singapore Investment
Corp. , which in turn listed Global Logistic in October 2010 in a
S$3.45 billion ($2.9 billion) share sale in Singapore.  Global Logistic said Sept. 1 it formed a joint venture with
the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board to develop and hold
storage and distribution centers in greater Tokyo and Osaka
areas. The venture will build up to 12 warehouses that may be
worth as much as $1.4 billion.  “We see nothing but extremely robust demand from
institutional investors,” Schwartz said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  