-- 
Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Gain on Support for Greece

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-09-14T23:14:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/japan-australian-stock-futures-gain-on-europe-leaders-support-for-greece.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures advanced after German and French leaders said they are
convinced Greece will remain in the euro zone and as optimism
that China may support Europe’s most-indebted nations eased
concerns of turmoil in the region.  American depositary receipts of  Sony Corp. (6758) , a consumer
electronics exporter that earns more than 20 percent of its
revenue from Europe, jumped 1.6 percent from the closing share
price in Tokyo. Those of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest
carmaker by market value, gained 1.3 percent. ADRs of  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s No. 2 lender by market value, climbed
2.3 percent.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,575 in Chicago yesterday compared with
8,460 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,570
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index gained 1.8 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.5 percent in Wellington.  “There was a concern that France and Germany would one-
sidedly blame  Greece  and show no support, but the situation on
Greece was not as bad as expected,” said Mitsushige Akino, who
oversees about $600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co. “Following the stronger euro, more companies
sensitive to the euro on earnings will likely be bought.”  Greece Support  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent
today. In New York, the index advanced for a third day, rising
1.4 percent yesterday. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and
German Chancellor Angela Merkel are “convinced” Greece will
remain in the euro area, according to a statement issued by
Sarkozy after they spoke to Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  by telephone.  Also,  China  is willing to buy the bonds of nations hit by
the debt crisis, Caijing reported on its website yesterday,
citing Zhang Xiaoqiang, a vice chairman of the National
Development and Reform Commission.  Earlier yesterday in New York, stocks slumped after
inventories in the U.S. rose less than forecast in July,
indicating companies are bracing for slowing demand.  The yen approached a post-World War II record against the
dollar after separate data showed U.S. retail sales unexpectedly
stagnated in August as a lack of employment and limited income
growth restrained demand, highlighting the risk the world’s
biggest economy will stall.  The euro rose against the majority of its most-traded
counterparts after Sarkozy and Merkel said Greece should remain
in the  euro zone , damping concerns of turmoil in the region.
Against the euro, the yen weakened to 105.59 from 104.82.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 16 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 5.5 percent drop by the  S&P
500  and a 19 percent loss by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark are valued at 11.6 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 11.9 for the S&P 500 and 9.4
times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 