-- 
Japan to Boost LNG Imports From U.S. as Nuclear Power Declines

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-09-14T11:50:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/japan-to-boost-lng-imports-from-u-s-as-nuclear-power-declines.html
Japan , the world’s largest importer
of liquefied natural gas, plans to seek more U.S. cargoes to
ensure adequate power supplies after its use of nuclear reactors
fell to an all-time low.  Japan’s senior vice minister of trade and industry, Seishu
Makino, asked U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu at a meeting
yesterday in  San Francisco  to increase LNG exports, Akinobu
Yoshikawa, deputy manager for the Petroleum and Natural Gas
Division, told reporters today in Tokyo.  “I believe we gained the U.S.’s understanding to some
extent,” said Yoshikawa. “We can’t buy LNG from the U.S.
unless the Department of Energy approves LNG plant owners to
export. There is one plant that recently won the approval and
there are two others in progress.”  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) , the Blackstone Group LP-backed owner
of Sabine Pass terminal in  Louisiana , got approval to ship LNG
to Japan in May. The Freeport LNG terminal in  Texas  and the Lake
Charles terminal in Louisiana are now seeking approval for
exports, according to Yoshikawa. Japan imported 70,873 metric
tons of LNG from the U.S. in the four-month period by July, down
60 percent from the same period last year, according to data
compiled by the Ministry of Finance.  Annual LNG output at Sabine Pass is around 15 million tons,
Yoshikawa said. “Not all of the 15 million tons will be
exported to Japan, but I believe the impact for our imports will
be big,” he said.  Record High Demand  Tokyo Electric Corp. and Tokyo Gas Co., the first Asian
buyers of LNG, had a joint contract to buy the fuel from a plant
in Alaska owned by  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  The
contract, initially signed in 1969, expired at the end of March
this year, Tokyo Electric’s spokesman Ryo Shimizu and Tokyo Gas
spokesman Takeshi Ujiie said by phone today. They declined to
comment whether the two companies still buy spot cargoes of LNG
from the project.  Japan’s 10 regional power utilities’ imports of liquefied
natural gas rose to a record for a second month in August. Of
the 54 reactors in the country, 41 units were idled because of
the meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami, maintenance and other disruptions at the
end of August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in  Tokyo  at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  