-- 
Johnny Hallyday Fans Rave as Rocker Barks in Camp Play: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-09-14T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/johnny-hallyday-fans-rave-as-rocker-barks-in-camp-play-review.html
That  France ’s only real rock star
appears for the first time in a play is remarkable enough. That
he has chosen a forgotten drama by  Tennessee Williams  for his
acting debut is even more perplexing.  Johnny Hallyday, born Jean-Philippe Smet, is a cult figure.
He has sold more than 100 million records and done more than 100
tours. His four marriages, his (real or alleged) love affairs,
his legal and medical troubles are the stuff of headlines.  A botched operation on his spine after which he almost died
was experienced as a national tragedy. He had to be put into an
artificial coma for a second operation. The first surgeon faces
a lawsuit.  Hallyday’s convalescence interrupted his frantic schedule,
and he suddenly found time for an old project.  More than 20 years ago, director Bernard Murat, a friend,
tried to talk him into playing Chicken in Williams’s “Kingdom
of Earth.” One of Hallyday’s hits in the 1980s, “Quelque Chose
de  Tennessee ,” had been a tribute to the playwright.  The plan came to nothing -- until now.  The choice of “Kingdom of Earth” is a wager. The 1968
play has never before been performed in France. In  New York ,
where it was staged under the title “The Seven Descents of
Myrtle,” it flopped and closed after a month.  Stoned Tennessee  The play belongs to a particularly chaotic period in the
author’s life when drugs, drink and dementia had ruined much of
his talent. Jokingly, he himself referred to it as his “Stoned
Age.” Much of what he wrote in those years borders on self-
parody.  As so often in Williams’s work, the action is set in the
Deep South, a Mississippi farmhouse on the eve of a devastating
flood. The three characters have much in common with those in
earlier works.  Lot, the owner of the house, a sexually ambivalent,
tubercular young man, has come home to die. The day before, he
married Myrtle, a girl with a colorful past and five
illegitimate children she put up for adoption.  He married her to prevent Chicken, his hated half-brother,
from inheriting the house. In the end, though, Myrtle makes
peace with Chicken, who saves her when the flood comes, while
Lot, a soul mate of Hitchcock’s Norman Bates in “Psycho,” dies
dressed in his late mother’s clothes.  The key to the eponymous “Kingdom of Earth” is sex: “If
on the bed you seen a woman waiting,” Chicken says, “and she
looked up at you and said to you, ‘Daddy, I want it,’ why, then
I say you got a square deal out of life. That’s how I see it
now, in this kingdom of earth.”  Swarthy Chieftain  Chicken is, according to the stage directions, “a young
man of 30 or 35.” Hallyday is 68. With his bronze complexion,
he looks more like an Indian chief than the son of a white
father and a dark-skinned mother.  His acting is stiff, yet he barks his lines without a
memory lapse and without an earpiece, a feat proudly peddled by
the theater. A guitar makes a brief appearance, though there’s
no singing.  Hallyday’s rigidity is more than offset by Audrey Dana’s
unbridled hamming. Myrtle’s reaction after the first gulp of
Chicken’s home-made brandy has to be seen to be believed: She
rolls her eyes, she breathes heavily, she pounds the kitchen
table (on which she will later have oral sex with Chicken) and
stamps her feet.  Julien Cottereau’s whiny Lot perfectly fits into the
melodramatic, high-camp production.  The audience at the fourth performance, which I saw, was
delirious and gave everybody a big hand of applause.  Rating: *.  “Le Paradis sur Terre” runs at the Theatre Edouard VII.
Information:  http://www.theatreedouard7.com  or +33-1-4742-5992.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net . 