-- 
John Lewis Profit Declines on Opening Costs

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-09-14T09:15:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/john-lewis-profit-declines-on-opening-costs.html
John Lewis  Partnership Plc, the
owner of the U.K.’s largest department-store chain, said first-
half earnings fell 23 percent, weighed down by store-opening
costs and its promise to match competitors’ prices.  Operating profit dropped to 111.5 million pounds ($175.3
million) in the six months through July, from 145.2 million
pounds a year earlier, the employee-owned retailer said today.
Sales climbed 6.4 percent to 4.05 billion pounds as the London-
based company opened 16 new stores, up from nine a year earlier.  John Lewis invested a record amount in its “Never
Knowingly Undersold” guarantee to match rivals’ prices,
spending 9.3 million pounds more than last year, said Managing
Director Andy Street.  The company , which opened its first full-
range department store in 20 years at Stratford’s new Westfield
shopping mall in  London  yesterday, forecast that difficult
business conditions will continue into next year.  “Our profit performance in the first half reflects not
only the extremely challenging trading conditions, particularly
in John Lewis, but also the significant investments we are
making to accelerate growth,” Chairman Charlie Mayfield said in
the statement. “Trading conditions are set to remain
challenging through the rest of this year and into 2012.”  The company’s Waitrose supermarket chain sought to avoid
raising prices and had to absorb inflation, it said.  ‘Green Shoots’  Street said John Lewis expects some “green shoots” next
year as a value-added tax increase won’t be repeated. It expects
to keep outperforming the overall retail market, which will be
“flat to marginally negative” for the remainder of 2011, he
said.  Mayfield said there has been an “encouraging step-up” in
same-store sales since the period, which bodes well for the
second half, when John Lewis typically generates between 60 and
80 percent of profits.  The department store chain will open another two standalone
home outlets this month, and a further five next year even as
Britons spend less on home furnishings and larger items, Street
said. Sales are a “wee bit down” at the stores but the
continued rollout “shows confidence with the model.”  The company’s pension fund liability increased by 5 percent
to 3.025 billion pounds. The fund sold its stake in  Ocado Group
Plc (OCDO) , the U.K. online grocery retailer supplied by Waitrose, for
150.5 million pounds in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 