-- 
Blame for 2010 Gulf Blast, Spill Will Be Decided by Trial Judge

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-09-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/judge-will-decide-who-shares-blame-for-deepwater-horizon-blast.html
Which companies share the blame for
the  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill and will have to pay for it will be
decided in a non-jury trial set to begin Feb. 27, a federal
judge in New Orleans said.  BP Plc (BP) , which owned the subsea well that exploded off
 Louisiana  in April 2010, claims  Transocean Ltd (RIG) ,  Halliburton Co. (HAL) ,
 Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  and other contractors involved in
the offshore drilling operation share responsibility for
mistakes that caused the disaster.  “The trial will address all allocation of fault issues
that may properly be tried to the bench without a jury,” U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier  said yesterday in a written order.
This includes “the negligence, gross negligence, or other bases
of liability of, and the proportion of liability allocable to
the various defendants, third parties, and non-parties,” he
said.  The Macondo blowout and the explosion that followed killed
11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil spill in U.S.
history. The accident and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against London-based BP and its partners and contractors. The
lawsuits over economic losses and personal injuries have been
combined before Barbier in New Orleans.  The lawsuits also name as defendants Transocean, the
Switzerland-based owner and operator of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig that exploded; Houston-based Halliburton, which
provided cementing services to the well; and Cameron
International, which provided blowout-prevention equipment. BP’s
minority partners in the well,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and
Mitsui & Co.’s Moex Offshore LLC unit, were also sued.  First Phase  Barbier said the first phase of the three-part trial will
focus on causes of the blowout and explosion to determine which
companies must share the cost of billions of dollars in economic
and property damage, which BP has so far been paying alone.  In a second trial phase, Barbier will gauge companies’
liability for actions and decisions during the months it took to
stop the subsea gusher. This phase will also determine how much
oil and gas was spilled into the Gulf, a figure the U.S. will
use to calculate any civil or criminal fines.  Barbier reserved a third phase of the trial for remaining
liability issues, including claims related to efforts to contain
and clean up the spill. The judge will also determine which
parties, if any, bear responsibility for property damage and
injuries allegedly caused by a chemical dispersant used to break
up the spill.  The first test trial on damages is scheduled for July.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net  and;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 