-- 
Kenya Bank Moves to Restore Credibility With Rate Increase

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-15T13:59:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/kenya-central-bank-moves-to-restore-credibility-with-suprise-rate-rise.html
Kenya’s central bank raised its
benchmark  interest rate  in a special meeting yesterday, in a bid
to restore credibility after it said earlier actions had led to
volatility in financial markets.  The central bank rate was lifted to 7 percent from 6.25
percent, the biggest increase since the rate was introduced in
2006. Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said in a statement yesterday the
bank’s “overriding objective” is to curb inflation and earlier
actions “failed to deliver stability.”  “This should help boost market confidence going forward,”
 Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research at Standard
Chartered Plc in  London , said in an e-mailed note. “It’s an
overwhelming positive move, that sets out to confront the
confusion over policy that had arisen in the recent past and
makes clear the intent of policy makers in the future.”  Ndung’u, 52, cut the key rate in January even as the worst
regional drought in six decades boosted inflation, triggering a
15 percent slump in the shilling against the dollar. The bank
reversed the decision two months later and restricted liquidity
to commercial lenders in a bid to shore up the currency. That
policy failed, with banks losing faith in the central bank’s
ability to manage the crisis.  Shilling Gains  The Monetary Policy Committee “strongly reiterated its
overriding objective to fight inflation and to bring it down to
target levels,” Ndung’u said in the bank’s statement yesterday.
“The committee noted that some of its earlier reactions to the
crisis had failed to deliver stability and they were even
interpreted adversely.”  The shilling gained as much as 0.8 percent to 94.35 against
the dollar today and was trading at 94.55 as of 4:15 p.m. in
Nairobi.  Inflation quickened to 16.7 percent in August, more than
triple the government’s 5 percent target, the statistics office
said on Aug. 30. Price pressures are persisting and “the return
to normal prices has been slower than the experience in 2009,”
the central bank said.  Ndung’u may need to take stronger action to curb inflation,
said Celeste Fauconnier, an Africa analyst at Rand Merchant Bank
in Johannesburg.  “The Central Bank of  Kenya  is still behind the curve in
normalizing policy, necessitating continued interest rate hikes
to tame inflation, help strengthen the shilling and restore
faith in the central bank’s policymaking abilities,” she said
in an e-mailed note to clients today.  Discount Window Rate  The central bank surprised the market at its last meeting
in July by leaving the key lending rate at 6.25 percent, saying
monetary policy won’t prevent “supply-side inflation”
pressures from rising food and energy costs.  To counter a weaker currency, the bank began last month
adjusting its discount window rate, which is the cost commercial
lenders pay to borrow from the central bank, boosting it by more
than 20 percentage points to 31.4 percent within two weeks in
August.  Confusion over the use of the central  bank rate  and the
discount window rate undermined monetary policy, leading
investors to call for more clarity and prompting Finance
Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  to urge for a restoration of monetary
stability last month.  “The inability to message the market in a normal and
rational manner has been causing at least a third of the
confusion,”  Aly-Khan Satchu , head of Rich Management, an
 investment company  for wealthy people, said in a phone interview
from Nairobi before the rate decision.  International Bond Sale  The central bank said its policy rate will be tied to
targets on domestic  money supply  with the aim of controlling
inflation. To help ease liquidity and strengthen the shilling,
the government has requested additional support from the
 International Monetary Fund  and will raise funds through the
sale of infrastructure bonds.  The  Finance Ministry  is also considering bringing forward a
plan to sell an international bond during the current fiscal
year that ends in June, Ndung’u said.  Kenya’s six-month borrowing costs climbed to the highest in
a decade to 11.935 percent at an auction this week, according to
data from the central bank, which received bids for about half
of the 6.5 billion shillings it offered for the 182-day
securities.  A regular MPC meeting scheduled to take place at the end of
this month was canceled, MPC member Sheila M’Mbijjewe said by
phone today from Nairobi.  “The MPC had a very extensive meeting yesterday and we
will continue to monitor the situation,” she said. “We will
meet whenever is necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  