-- 
Kenyan Shilling Falls Against Dollar Ahead of Central Bank’s MPC Meeting

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-14T10:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/kenyan-shilling-falls-against-dollar-ahead-of-central-bank-s-mpc-meeting.html
Kenya’s shilling weakened before a
special meeting of the  Central Bank  of Kenya’s Monetary Policy
Committee today.  Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, who leads the committee, may say
that inflation will peak as early as this month and the
resumption of seasonal rains will ease food prices, said Fred Mweni, managing director of Nairobi-based Tsavo Securities Ltd.
The bank, which will hold its regular meeting at the end of the
month, hasn’t said whether it will adjust its benchmark  interest
rate  from 6.25 percent today.  The shilling declined as much as 0.5 percent against the
dollar to 94.95 and traded down 0.2 at 94.65 by 12:41 p.m. in
Nairobi, the capital. It closed at 94.45 yesterday after
touching a 17-year low of 95.80 earlier in the day.  The worst regional drought in 60 years has fueled price
pressures in  East Africa ’s biggest economy, triggering a 15
percent slide in the shilling against the dollar this year.  The central bank left its key rate unchanged at its
previous meeting in July, defying economists’ expectations of an
increase. The bank has instead adjusted its discount-window
rate, which is the cost commercial lenders pay to borrow from
the central bank, several times since June to tighten liquidity.  “I don’t see any drastic actions coming out of the
meeting,” Mweni said in a phone interview yesterday. The
central bank may indicate “ food production  could improve,
easing inflation, maybe in the next month or two.”  The bank is scheduled to announce the outcome of its
meeting today.  Rainfall  Inflation surged for a 10th month in August, reaching 16.7
percent, as the shilling’s depreciation added to import costs,
the statistics office said on Aug. 30. Near-normal precipitation
is forecast during the October to December short-rain season,
according to the  Kenya  Meteorological Department, easing the
impact of a drought that’s left 3.75 million Kenyans in need of
food aid.  Consumer prices should drop by December, Joseph Kinyua,
permanent secretary in the  Finance Ministry , told reporters in
Nairobi today. “With the onset of rains because of the food
component being one of those that have been driving inflation
up, other things being constant, I see in the next three months
inflation beginning to come down,” Kinyua said.  Ndung’u is under pressure to increase the benchmark rate to
restore confidence in the central bank after a series of
monetary policy decisions that were reversed this year.  Prediction ‘Difficult’  “The frequent and unexpected decisions of the Central Bank
of Kenya this year makes it difficult to predict what the
meeting will hold,” Celeste Fauconnier, Africa analyst at Rand
Merchant Bank, a unit of Johannesburg-based FirstRand Ltd., said
in a note to clients yesterday.  The central bank restricted commercial banks’ access to
funds from its discount window since August to prevent them from
borrowing cheaply and investing in higher-yielding Treasury
bills. That pushed up the discount-window rate by more than 20
percentage points to 31.4 percent in the two weeks through Aug.
26.  Changes made since then have helped lower the rate to 9.25
percent today, according to the central bank’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 