-- 
Kenya’s Central Bank Lifts Benchmark Interest Rate to 7%, Admiting Errors

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-14T15:04:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/kenyan-central-bank-lifts-benchmark-interest-rate-to-7-admits-errors.html
Kenya ’s central bank raised its
benchmark  interest rate  by 0.75 percentage points as inflation
pressures persist, while admitting its earlier actions have led
to volatility in financial markets.  The central  bank rate  was lifted to 7 percent from 6.25
percent, the biggest increase since the rate was introduced in
2006, Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said in an e-mailed statement
from the central bank today following a special meeting of the
Monetary Policy Committee in Nairobi.  Inflation in Kenya soared to 16.7 percent in August, more
than triple the government’s 5 percent target as the worst
drought in six decades in the Horn of  Africa  damaged crops and
the shilling slid 15 percent against the dollar this year. The
central bank has restricted liquidity to commercial banks in a
bid to curb  currency speculation  and reversed several rate
decisions this year, undermining monetary policy.  The Monetary Policy Committee “strongly reiterated its
overriding objective to fight inflation and to bring it down to
target levels,” Ndung’u said. “The committee noted that some
of its earlier reactions to the crisis had failed to deliver
stability and they were even interpreted adversely.”  Surprised the Market  The central bank cut its key lending rate by a quarter of a
percentage point in January, to a record low, and then raised it
by the same margin at each of the next two meetings to bolster
the currency. The central bank surprised the market at its last
meeting in July by leaving the key lending rate at 6.25 percent,
saying monetary measures can’t stop supply-side inflation.  The bank has instead adjusted its discount-window rate,
which is the cost commercial lenders pay to borrow from the
central bank, four times since June to tighten liquidity.  The policy reversals this year have led investors to urge
the central bank to clarify its stance, while Finance Minister
 Uhuru Kenyatta  last month called for the restoration of monetary
stability.  “The inability to message the market in a normal and
rational manner has been causing at least a third of the
confusion,”  Aly-Khan Satchu , head of Rich Management, an
 investment company  for wealthy people, said by phone before the
meeting. “We are starting to see a more coordinated approach
and we are hoping to see further evidence of that.”  The shilling weakened as much as 0.7 percent to 95.10
against the dollar as of 6 p.m. in Nairobi.  Near-normal rainfall is forecast during the October to
December short-rain season, according to the Kenya
Meteorological Department. That would ease the impact of a
drought that has left 3.75 million Kenyans in need of food aid,
though it has also triggered warnings of possible flooding and
mudslides in some areas.  “The timely coming of short rains signifies better
prospects for food production and prices,” said Joseph Kinyua,
permanent secretary at the Ministry of Finance, at a conference
in Nairobi today. Growth in  East Africa ’s largest economy may
accelerate to 6 percent next year, from between 5 percent and
5.5 percent this year, said Kinyua.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 