-- 
Korean Won Slides, Bonds Gain as European Debt Crisis Worsens

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-09-14T07:05:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/korean-won-slides-bonds-gain-as-european-debt-crisis-worsens.html
South Korea’s won slumped to the
lowest level since March on its first trading day after the
Chuseok holiday as  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis sapped demand
for emerging-market assets.  Government bonds  rose.  The  finance ministry  held an emergency meeting yesterday to
discuss Europe and said officials will enhance monitoring of
capital flows and markets to cope with any turbulence. Greece’s
budget deficit widened 22 percent in the first eight months of
the year, fanning speculation the country will fail to meet
conditions for bailout funds. French lenders Credit Agricole SA
and Societe General SA had their debt ratings cut by Moody’s
Investors Service today because of their Greek holdings.  “Reports on the European debt crisis boosted the risk-
averse sentiment in the market, dragging the won down,” said
Lee Jin Ill, a Seoul-based senior currency dealer with Hana
Bank. “There was speculation that policy makers intervened to
stabilize currency movements.”  The won fell 2.7 percent from last week’s closing level to
1,107.70 per dollar at the 3 p.m. close in  Seoul , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level since March
30. Local financial markets were closed the last two days for
Chuseok.  Italian borrowing costs jumped at a government bond auction
yesterday as investors shunned assets from indebted European
nations. Benchmark five-year bonds were sold to yield 5.6
percent, up from 4.93 percent when similar-maturity notes were
last auctioned in July. Greece’s Prime Minister  George
Papandreou  will discuss developments in his nation and the euro
area with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy today.  South Korea’s benchmark three-year bonds rose for a third
day, pushing yields down to the lowest level since December. The
yield on the government’s 3.5 percent bonds due June 2014 fell 6
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 3.29 percent, Korea
Exchange Inc. prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  