-- 
Korea Finance Offers Samurais as Yields Diverge From World: Japan Credit

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 
2011-09-15T06:31:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/korea-finance-offers-samurais-as-yields-diverge-from-world-japan-credit.html
Korea Finance Corp., the state-
owned financier, entered  Japan ’s debt market for the first time
to tap the lowest relative cost to borrow since February 2009
compared with the rest of the world.  Formed in 2009, Korea Finance offered so-called Samurai
bonds today, selling 30 billion yen ($391 million) of
securities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales of
yen-denominated debt by Korean borrowers have more than doubled
to a record 275 billion yen this year from the same period in
2010, the data show.  Foreign borrowers are able to raise cash in Japan at yields
averaging 110 basis points more than benchmarks, compared with
247 in the global corporate bond market, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show. The difference of 134 basis points, close to
the widest since Feb. 20, 2009, has expanded from 43 in April as
investors assigned a higher risk to holding debentures outside
Japan while the global economic recovery slows and the fiscal
crisis in  Europe  deepens.  “The Japanese  bond market  is somehow detached from the
widening spreads in overseas market,” said Kyoko Kaji, a Tokyo-
based credit analyst at Nomura Securities Co.  While a government report this week showed that large
manufacturers in Japan became more optimistic about their
business outlook during the third quarter, the Asia Development
Bank cut its 2011 estimate yesterday for the nation’s economy to
a 0.5 percent contraction from its previous estimate for a 1.5
percent expansion.  Near-Zero Rates  Borrowing costs in Japan dipped to a four-month low as the
 Bank of Japan  kept its key  interest rate  near zero last week to
stoke growth and combat deflation. Yield premiums in the U.S.
and Europe have climbed on speculation  Greece  will default,
deepening the debt crisis and crippling economic growth.  Spreads on Samurai bonds have widened 13 basis points, or
0.13 percentage point, since the end of June, while those for
global bonds have expanded 83 basis points.  Korea  Finance, based in Seoul, today priced 15.5 billion
yen of two-year, 0.99 percent bonds to yield 60 basis points
more than the yen swap rate. The lender also sold 7.5 billion
yen of three-year, 1.11 percent notes at a spread of 70 basis
points, and 7 billion yen in five-year, 1.36 percent debt at 85
basis points, according to the data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market’s ample liquidity and demand for short-term
bonds are the reason for the sale,” said Kim Heung Sang, Seoul-
based head of the global funding team at Korea Finance.
“Japanese investors prefer short-term bonds because of the
ultra-low domestic borrowing cost.”  Relative Spreads  Korea Finance was formed in October 2009 after being spun
off from  Korea Development Bank  to handle policy financing, such
as the bailout of Hynix Semiconductor Inc., in the wake of the
Asian financial crisis.  The 70 basis-point spread on the three-year notes compares
with the 20 paid by Japanese trading company  Sojitz Corp. (2768)  on its
similar-maturity 0.6 percent securities on Aug. 30, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Tokyo-based company is rated
BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s , or four levels below Korea Finance.  “We used to be doubtful of the strength of the Korean
economy, but seeing it in good condition over the last few years
shifted our view and the certainty is increasing,” said
Yoshihiro Nakatani, a Tokyo-based senior  fund manager  who helps
oversee 98 billion yen at Asahi Life Asset Management Co.  Posco (005490) ,  South Korea ’s biggest steel maker, hired BNP Paribas
SA, Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., HSBC
Holdings Plc. and UBS AG for a sale of Samurai bonds, according
to a person with direct knowledge of the matter today.  The company last sold Samurai bonds in June 2006 when it
raised 50 billion yen from a sale of 2.05 percent notes at a
spread of 32 basis points more than the yen swap rate, Bloomberg
data show.  Inflation Target  President  Lee Myung Bak  said on Sept. 8 that the country’s
inflation may exceed the 4 percent target this year. The  Bank of
Korea  kept its benchmark rate unchanged at 3.25 percent for a
third month on the same day and said it may not be able to
increase borrowing costs until “external” issues such as
Europe’s debt crisis are under control.  A record 14-month rally in Samurai bonds ended in August
after securities issued by Bank of America Corp. lost 3.16
percent and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s debt posted a 1.78
percent loss, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Bonds offered by  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  returned 0.36 percent.  No U.S. or European financial institution has offered
Samurai bonds since July 22, after selling 415.6 billion yen in
the same period a year earlier, Bloomberg data show. Oslo-based
Eksportfinans ASA was the last European borrower in the market,
selling 30 billion yen of 0.72 percent debt to yield 15 basis
points more than the yen swap rate, the data show.  Government Yields  Hana Bank, a unit of South Korea’s fourth-largest financial
company, issued 30 billion yen of Samurai bonds on Aug. 4,
including 8.3 billion yen of three-year, 1.42 percent notes at a
spread of 99 basis points, according to Bloomberg data. On the
same day,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  Australia ’s second-biggest
lender, raised 100 billion yen from a sale that included 74.4
billion yen of five-year, 1 percent notes at a spread of 47.  The yield on Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond was little
changed at 0.99 percent today in  Tokyo , after touching the
lowest level since November on Aug. 19, according to Japan Bond
Trading Co. Ten-year Treasury yields slid to a record 1.88
percent on Sept. 12.  Export-Led Recovery  The yen gained versus all 16 major counterparts yesterday
and traded as high as 76.70 per dollar today in Tokyo. The
Japanese currency appreciated to a post-World War II high of
75.95 per dollar on Aug. 19, threatening to derail Japan’s
export-led recovery.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of credit-default swaps fell
4 basis points to 158 basis points as of 9:40 a.m. in Tokyo,
Citigroup Inc. prices show. The risk benchmark was at 164.5
basis points on Sept. 13, the highest level since May 2010,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The index climbed from 98 the day before the
earthquake.  Credit-default swaps protect bondholders against default
and traders use them to speculate on  credit quality . A drop
signals improving perceptions of creditworthiness, while an
increase suggests the opposite. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities if a borrower
fails to meet its debt agreements.  Contracts to insure Japanese government debt against
default for five years fell 0.5 to a record 122.3 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net 
Taejin Park in Seoul 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  