-- 
National Football League Retirees Sue Union Over Contract

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-09-15T01:54:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/national-football-league-retirees-sue-players-union-over-labor-contract.html
National Football League  players
favored current players and rookies over retirees in negotiating
a labor contract with the league, retirees said in a lawsuit.  Current players shortchanged them in negotiations with the
league, cutting back a commitment to increase pensions to
pre-1993 retirees and changing post-career medical options,
retirees said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
Minneapolis. The retirees are suing as group, seeking class-
action status to represent all retired NFL players.  Current players and the union have a “conflict of
interest” in representing retirees, former players said in the
complaint. Ex-players Carl Eller, Chuck Bednarik, Lem Barney and
25 others asked the  Minnesota  court to set aside issues related
to retirees in the current contract and require renegotiation.  The union and current individual players “had no authority
to negotiate with the league the terms of pension, retirement,
and disability benefits with respect to the class of retired NFL
players,” Eller and the others said in the complaint. The
retirees asked the Minnesota court to give them bargaining
rights and benefits with the league.  The NFL declared a labor lockout on March 12 after talks to
create a new collective bargaining agreement failed and the
players association said it no longer would act as a union. The
lockout ended in July after the league and players reached an
agreement.  ‘A Tradeoff’  “There was a tradeoff for the benefit of currently active
players, free agents and rookies” in the new contract,  Michael Hausfeld , a lawyer for the retirees, said today in an interview.
“We’re talking about the rights of people who are no longer
players and have no employment relationship with the league.”  George Atallah, spokesman for the National Football League
Players Association, declined to comment.  The lawsuit names as defendants the players union, its
 executive director ,  DeMaurice Smith , and players  Tom Brady  and
Mike Vrabel. Brady and Vrabel were among a group of players who
sued the league and its teams, claiming violations of U.S.
antitrust laws. Their lawsuit, filed in federal court in  St.
Paul , Minnesota, was dropped after players and the league agreed
on a new contract.  The case is Eller v. National Football League Players
Association, 11-cv-02623, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota ( Minneapolis ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  