-- 
Nestle Using Franc Makes Mead Johnson Takeover Target: Real M&A

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y ,   T o m   R a n d a l l   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-14T20:20:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/nestle-using-strong-franc-in-takeovers-puts-mead-johnson-in-play-real-m-a.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  is turning to takeovers
after more than $10 billion in stock repurchases failed to stem
a decline in  shareholder value . That may put  Mead Johnson
Nutrition Co. (MJN)  in its sights.  Nestle, which spent 10 billion Swiss francs ($11.4 billion)
on buybacks in the past 14 months, will stop buying shares and
may instead pursue acquisitions, Chief Financial Officer James Singh said last month after the currency reached a record. The
world’s largest food company lost 5.4 percent during the buyback
period as its rivals gained. While Nestle’s revenue is projected
to drop this year, the franc’s appreciation -- the biggest of
any major currency in the past year -- is now making takeovers
cheaper than ever, James Investment Research Inc. said.  Buying Mead Johnson, the world’s largest standalone baby
formula maker, would help Nestle revive growth and rebuild its
business in China, the only major market where the company isn’t
one of the biggest sellers of infant nutrition after authorities
there found in 2005 that its products contained too much iodine.
With  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  delaying a sale of its own baby formula unit,
according to people with direct knowledge of the plan, a deal
for Mead Johnson instead would give Nestle more than half the
U.S. baby food market, according to Euromonitor International.  “This is an asset that works best in Nestle, more than
anywhere else,” Tom Pirko, president of Bevmark LLC, a
Buellton, California-based consulting firm, said in a telephone
interview. The firm counts Nestle as a client, according to its
website. “Everything we’ve looked at so far says this is a very
good fit, and it is a deal that should be put together.”  Shareholder Returns  Nina Caren Backes, a spokeswoman at Vevey, Switzerland-
based Nestle, declined to comment on whether it is considering a
takeover of Mead Johnson. Chris Perille, a spokesman for Mead
Johnson in Glenview,  Illinois , declined to comment on whether it
was approached by Nestle or would consider a sale.  “We never comment on marketplace speculation,” Perille
said in a telephone interview.  Today, Mead Johnson climbed 3.8 percent to a record $75.25,
while shares of Nestle rose 0.1 percent.  Nestle, which purchased more than 188 million of its own
shares in its latest plan, said Aug. 10 that it decided against
buying more of its common equity. The program, completed last
week, didn’t keep Nestle from declining over the 14-month span,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Create Value’  Companies that sell consumer staples in the MSCI World
Index of developed markets advanced an average of 16 percent.  In the previous three years, Nestle had bought back 25
billion francs worth of stock, coinciding with a 6 percent gain.  “The share buyback hasn’t been as successful as they
believed it would be,” said Joerg de Vries-Hippen, Frankfurt-
based chief investment officer for European equities at Allianz
Global Investors, which oversees more than $100 billion,
including Nestle shares. “In the end, it didn’t create value.”  The announcement to end Nestle’s buyback program came one
day after the franc climbed to an all-time high against the
dollar on Aug 9. While the Swiss currency retreated after the
nation’s central bank last week said it would cap the franc’s
rate for the first time since 1978, it has still appreciated 14
percent in the past year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Given the fact that there are potential alternative uses
for our cash, such as investments in capabilities and bolt-ons,
that provide greater long term strategic value for our
shareholders, we believe that today is not the right time to be
launching a new share buyback,” Nestle’s Singh  said  Aug. 10.  Shunning Buybacks  Nestle is shunning buybacks to pursue acquisitions as it
tries to bolster growth. After reporting 87.9 billion francs in
revenue last year, analysts estimate that Nestle’s sales will
fall more than 5 percent this year.  That makes a takeover offer for Mead Johnson, which is
forecast to increase earnings twice as much as Nestle in 2012, a
“high possibility” this year, according to  David Hayes , a
London-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  “They’ve got a strong currency to take advantage of,”
 Barry James , president of James Investment Research in Xenia,
 Ohio , said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees $2.5
billion. “It makes perfect sense that they would be seeking
that diversification abroad.”  While Nestle is the biggest seller of infant nutrition in
the world, it has lost market share in China after being forced
to withdraw two varieties of its Neslac milk powder in 2005
because they had iodine levels that exceeded Chinese norms.  Fake Milk Powder  A year earlier, 13 babies died of malnutrition after being
fed fake milk powder sold with false labels and no nutritional
value. Three years ago, melamine-tainted milk powder sickened
thousands of children in  China  and killed at least six infants.
The incidents didn’t involve Nestle products.  “Consumers want products that come from pharmaceutical
companies as it gives them greater assurance,” said Ildiko Szalai, an analyst at Euromonitor in  London .  That’s why “Mead
Johnson became number one in China last year” as consumers
moved away from Chinese brands, he said.  Acquiring Mead Johnson, the $14.8 billion company split off
from Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. in 2009, would help Nestle
leapfrog  Danone (BN)  and become the biggest seller of infant-
nutrition products in China, the largest market for baby food.  Mead Johnson had 11.7 percent of China’s infant formula
market last year, while Paris-based Danone’s share equaled 9.8
percent, data compiled by Euromonitor showed.  ‘Brand Matters’  Nestle didn’t rank in the top five in China, where sales of
 baby food  through 2015 are forecast to increase almost three
times as fast as the industry average, the data showed.  “The main piece would be to get access to the Chinese
market,”  Mark Demos , a manager at Fifth Third Asset Management
in  Minneapolis , which oversees about $18 billion and owns Mead
Johnson shares, said in a telephone interview. “Infant formula
is one of those things where the brand matters. They simply
cannot replicate it by building a franchise like Mead Johnson in
China. Mead Johnson is established.”  In the U.S., Mead Johnson would help Nestle more than
double its share of baby food sales to about 58 percent. A deal
would also enable Nestle to market its Gerber baby food to
consumers already using Mead Johnson’s Enfamil formula as their
babies switch from milk to eating purees and solid foods,
according to Nomura’s Hayes.  “Nestle is very able to make the U.S. business at Mead
work” because of the Gerber business, Hayes wrote in a report
dated Sept. 12. “Nestle would be able to target more mothers in
the U.S. with umbrella branded Gerber-Enfamil Formula.”  Nomura estimates that Nestle would have to pay at least a
25 percent premium to buy Mead Johnson, which would equal $18.5
billion. That would make the baby formula maker Nestle’s biggest
acquisition on record, as well as one of the most expensive
based on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Mead Johnson is not going to come cheaply,” Fifth
Third’s Demos said. Still, “if you’re a consumer products food
company worldwide and you want access to growth, Mead Johnson is
a company that would achieve that for you.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Randall  in  New York  at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at +31-20-589-8505 or  cperri@bloomberg.net . 