-- 
Bollard’s ‘Downbeat’ Outlook May Extend New Zealand Rate Pause Into 2012

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-09-16T03:02:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/new-zealand-leaves-main-rate-at-2-5-on-weaker-outlook-in-export-markets.html
New Zealand ’s central bank may
delay its next interest-rate increase until next year,
economists said after Governor Alan Bollard signaled growing
global risks are a threat to the nation’s export-driven economy.  Seven of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News yesterday
predicted Bollard will keep the official cash rate at a record-
low of 2.5 percent until at least January. Last week, 13 of 15
expected higher borrowing costs by December.  New Zealand’s currency is set to fall against the yen this
week after Bollard left rates unchanged and investors raised
bets he’ll pause through the rest of this year. A private report
today showed  consumer confidence  slid this month, signaling
concern a faltering global economy will outweigh the short-term
spending boost from the  Rugby World Cup .  “Not only did the Reserve Bank stay on hold, it produced a
more downbeat statement about the state of the world,” said
Stephen Toplis, head of research at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington. “We find it hard to fault in these uncertain
times.”  The ANZ National Bank Ltd.-Roy Morgan confidence index
declined to 112.6 from 113.3 in August, the Auckland-based
lender said in an e-mailed report today. The gauge has gained
from a two-year low of 101.4 reached in March and April.  The local currency bought 82.31 U.S. cents at 2:47 p.m. in
Wellington from 82.38 late yesterday in  New York . Against the
yen, it traded at 63.25, set for a 0.9 percent decline this week.  Rate Outlook  Swaps markets indicated a 68 percent chance Bollard will
hold the cash rate at 2.5 percent for the rest of the year,
according to data today from Westpac Banking Corp. As recently
as Aug. 24, traders were certain he would lift the benchmark to
at least 2.75 percent.  Toplis forecast the cash rate will remain at 2.5 percent
until March, when it may rise a quarter of a percentage point.
Before yesterday, he expected a quarter-point increase in
October.  Bollard yesterday reiterated that eventual increases in
borrowing costs will hinge on a decline in global financial
risks and a sustained domestic recovery after an earthquake
demolished businesses, roads and houses in the South Island city
of Christchurch in February.  “If recent global developments have only a mild impact on
the New Zealand economy, it is likely that the cash rate will
need to increase,” he said.  The six-week-long rugby tournament began last week, drawing
an estimated 95,000 foreign visitors.  Market Turmoil  Investors began reducing bets on a rate rise last month
after Europe’s fiscal crisis deepened and  Standard & Poor’s  cut
the U.S. government’s credit rating. The MSCI World Index of
equities has slumped about 13 percent since Bollard’s July 28
rate-setting meeting.  “Sovereign debt concerns in Europe and the weakened global
outlook have caused international bank-funding markets to
tighten,” Bollard said yesterday. “If conditions do not
improve, New Zealand bank funding costs will increase.”  The New Zealand dollar’s 13 percent gain the past six
months, making it the best performing among 16 counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg, is also curbing exports, which make up 30
percent of gross domestic product, he said.  “The  exchange rate  is significantly penalizing some
activity in the traded sector, hurting some New Zealand firms
and that’s a medium-term effect not a short-term effect,” he
told reporters in Wellington after yesterday’s meeting.  Stronger Kiwi  The currency has strengthened because New Zealand’s economy
has outperformed others in the developed world, Bollard said.  New Zealand’s economic recovery may be slower next year
than government forecasts as a high currency and weaker growth
in the U.S. and  Europe  curb exports, Finance Minister  Bill English  said in a Sept. 14 interview.  For households, “there’s a bit of a relief factor there
with  interest rates  looking like they’re going to be lower for
longer,” English said in Wellington.  New Zealand’s three biggest exports are dairy, meat and
wood products. Prices of commodity exports fell for a third
month in August, according to an ANZ National Bank Ltd. index on
Sept. 1.  Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s
largest dairy exporter, said Sept. 2 that it may pay its New
Zealand suppliers 10 percent less for milk in the year ending
May 31, maintaining an earlier forecast amid a strengthening
currency and signs of increasing global dairy production.  Growth Outlook  The central bank yesterday lowered its forecast for
economic growth in the year ending March 31 to 3.6 percent, from
4.4 percent projected in its June policy statement. Growth the
following year will be 2.6 percent, less than the 3.6 percent
previous estimate.  “The  Reserve Bank  seems particularly nervous about the
possibility of global banking sector strains,” said  Philip Borkin , economist at Goldman Sachs & Partners New Zealand Ltd.
in Auckland, who expects no rate change until March. “This is
where New Zealand is most vulnerable. It is easy to envisage a
scenario against the backdrop of higher bank-funding costs where
rate hikes were delayed further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  