-- 
News Corp. Hacking Troubleshooter Worked With Reporter Arrested in Probe

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-14T23:01:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/news-corp-hacking-troubleshooter-worked-with-reporter-arrested-in-probe.html
News Corp.’s  Simon Greenberg , a
member of an internal panel tasked with reviewing phone hacking
at the News of the World and the company’s other U.K.
newspapers, once oversaw a reporter at another publication
arrested last week in a police probe.  Greenberg, 42, was the associate editor for sports at the
Evening Standard until 2004 when Raoul Simons worked there as a
soccer reporter. Simons, who is heard discussing phone hacking
on a 2005 tape recording, was arrested by London police Sept. 7,
a person familiar with the matter said. Simons moved to News
Corp.’s Times in 2009.  While there is no implication Greenberg was involved in any
wrongdoing, Simons’s arrest shows phone hacking may have spread
beyond the News of the World and emphasises the difficulties
associated with investigating it. The failure of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
previous attempts to determine the extent of phone hacking puts
a higher standard on the current investigation, said Martin Moore, director of the Media Standards Trust in London.  Any investigation that News Corp.’s News International unit
“does now or in the future has to be both transparent and
rigorous and have high levels of accountability or else people
are going to have a lot of trouble regarding it as credible,”
Moore said. Media Standards Trust is a non-profit organization
that focuses on transparency in the press and has made
recommendations to Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s media inquiry.  News International and Greenberg declined to comment.  16th Arrest  Simons was the 16th person arrested in connection with the
scandal this year, including Rebekah Brooks, the chief executive
officer of the company’s U.K. publishing unit. Brooks and  Les Hinton , who was running News Corp.’s Dow Jones & CO. unit in  New
York , were forced to resign after revelations that News of the
World hacked into the phone of a murdered schoolgirl in 2002.  News Corp.’s management and standards committee, which
Greenberg is on, was given the mandate to conduct internal
inquiries. The company said in August that its primary objective
has been providing information to police and other government
investigations.  Greenberg was sports editor of the Evening Standard,
overseeing as many as 35 editors and reporters, until he took a
public relations position with the  Chelsea Football Club  in
2004. Greenberg was chief of staff for  England ’s unsuccessful
bid to host the 2018 soccer  World Cup . He joined News
International in January as director of corporate affairs.  A recording of Simons speaking with a private investigator
about how to hack into voicemails was made at least six months
after Greenberg had left the paper, according to two people at
the company who declined to be identified because the matter is
confidential.  Simons Suspended  In the tape, Simons is heard in a recording being instructed
by private detective  Glenn Mulcaire  about how to hack into a
mobile phone, the person said. Mulcaire worked for the News of
the World before being jailed in 2007 after pleading guilty to
phone hacking related charges.  The police, who didn’t confirm the identity of the arrested
35-year-old man, said last week that he was detained and
released on bail. The tape was made in 2005, at least six months
after Greenberg left the Evening Standard, the people said.  By the time Greenberg was appointed to the management and
standards committee, the News Corp. publication had suspended
Simons following the release of the recording online, the people
said.  Simons was deputy football editor at the Times when he was
suspended last year, one of the people said. Simons is still
employed by the newspaper and is on extended leave pending a
review of his conduct, the person said.  The Times didn’t respond to requests to provide contact
information for Simons.  Murdered Schoolgirl  News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit shut down the News of the
World tabloid in July after reports surfaced that reporters had
hacked into the voicemail of murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler .
 Clive Goodman , a former reporter at the tabloid, had been jailed
along with Mulcaire in 2007 for admitting to listening to
messages sent by the royal family.  In addition to Greenberg, the management and standards
committee is comprised of attorney Anthony Grabiner, William
Lewis, a former general manager at the company’s U.K. newspaper
unit, and Jeff Palker, News Corp.’s general counsel for Europe
and  Asia .  Previous Probes  U.K. lawmakers last week criticized News Corp.’s previous
probes into phone hacking at News of the World, which were
touted by News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  at hearings in
July. The probes by two law firms later turned out to be a
limited inquiry into Goodman’s wrongful termination case and
another effort to coordinate police requests during their
initial investigation.  Greenberg was praised by Sue Akers, who is heading the
investigation by the police force, for cooperating with the
probe in a July 12 meeting at the U.K. Parliament’s Home Affairs
select committee.  News Corp. “is going to be very sensitive to any potential
conflict of interest given the nature and the high stakes,”
said Niri Shan, a media lawyer at Taylor Wessing LLP in  London .
“Having said that, the fact that they worked together so long
ago may reassure them that a conflict does not actually arise.”  The arrest of Simons also potentially widens the scandal to
other newspapers. The Evening Standard, sold in 2009 to Russian
billionaire  Alexander Lebedev , belonged to the  Daily Mail  and
General Trust Plc when Simons worked there.  Daily Mail spokesman Oliver Lloyd didn’t return a two calls
seeking comment.  Other Papers  Other newspapers have been implicated in a study by the
 Information Commissioner’s Office , a U.K. group tasked with
monitoring data privacy and information rights, called
“Operation Motorman.” The  report , published in December 2006
found evidence that 305 journalists working for 32 newspapers
and magazines bought illegally obtained information.  Cameron has appointed Lord Justice Brian Leveson to
investigate the country’s media in the wake of the scandal. A
seven-member panel has asked for responses from newspapers,
including the Daily Mail, and will call witnesses from the media
as it investigates the press, its ethics and the relationship
with politicians and police.  News Corp.’s own investigations, started after Goodman pled
guilty to hacking in 2006, failed to indicate widespread hacking
at the News of the World. The law firm Harbottle & Lewis LLP and
the company’s legal manager Tom Crone looked through 2,500 e-
mails from employees Goodman had identified as being involved
with the voicemail scheme and said they found no evidence that
reporters were getting information illegally.  Law firm BCL Burton Copeland, which worked for News
International when the scandal erupted in 2006 and 2007, said
its role was limited to providing documents to the police and
wasn’t asked to carry out an investigation into phone hacking.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
units of News Corp. in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  