-- 
News Corp. May Be Assessed Along With BBC in U.K. Media Competition Study

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-09-14T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/news-corp-may-be-assessed-with-bbc-in-u-k-competition-study.html
U.K. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt 
has asked regulator Ofcom to consider whether limits should be
set on the market shares of media companies such as Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. and the British Broadcasting Corp.  Ofcom will consider the influence of businesses with media
on multiple platforms, such as print, TV and websites, Hunt said
in a speech to the Royal Television Society in Cambridge today.
He oversaw the approval process for News Corp.’s bid for full
control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the U.K.’s
biggest pay-TV company, before the 7.8 billion-pound ($12.3
billion) offer was withdrawn because of a phone-hacking scandal.  Ofcom regulators will examine options for measuring media
plurality and will “look at whether or not it is practical or
advisable to set absolute limits on news market share; whether
they believe a framework for measuring levels of plurality could
or should include websites and if so which ones; and whether or
how it should include the  BBC ,” Hunt said.  News Corp. (NWSA)  dropped its BSkyB bid in July after hacking by
its News of the World tabloid raised concerns about its ethics.
The BBC, the world’s oldest public-service broadcaster, offers
news and entertainment via its website and runs TV and radio
services. It competes with BSkyB for viewers and is funded by a
license fee paid by owners of TV sets. In October, the
government said that the fee would be frozen for six years.  News Plurality  “As a citizen, I want plurality of news provision so I can
be confident that no one person or organization exerts too much
control over where I get my news,” Hunt said.  News Corp., which owns the Times and the Sun, Britain’s
biggest-selling tabloid, may retreat from newspapers in the
U.K., Johnathan Barrett, an analyst at Singer Capital Markets,
said in July.  “Exiting the U.K. newspapers may not necessarily be such a
bad thing, particularly if it takes off the issue of conflict
with the ownership of those assets and they come back to bid for
Sky in a year’s time,” Barrett said.  BSkyB, based in Isleworth, west of  London , has about 16,500
employees and 10 million U.K. customers for services that
include sports, on-demand TV and high-end international content
from networks such as Time Warner Inc.’s HBO.  Public Interest  “One of the main things to emerge from the BSkyB merger
proposal was the fact that public-interest interventions can
only take place when there is a specific transaction to
approve,” Hunt said. “Media plurality should mirror
competition policy more closely, with independent regulators
given the right to start investigations into media plurality and
propose remedies to protect plurality even in the absence of
corporate transactions.”  The report will be submitted to an inquiry into U.K. media
practices led by Justice Brian Leveson. The inquiry will have
two public sessions to discuss the present regulation of the
media and the roles of bodies including Ofcom. A third, private
session, will “provide information on technical aspects of
mobile and e-mail interception,” Leveson said this month.  News Corp. shut down the News of the World in July after
accusations that employees hacked into the voicemails of a
missing schoolgirl who was later found murdered, prompting Prime
Minister  David Cameron  to create the Leveson probe.  A police inquiry has led to the arrests of at least 16
people, including Rebekah Brooks, who was chief executive
officer of the News International publishing unit.  Les Hinton , a
former News International chairman, stepped down as the head of
News Corp.’s Dow Jones & Co. unit on July 15.  A separate parliamentary committee is questioning current
and former executives about phone hacking at News Corp. and how
those executives dealt with initial reports.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
units of New York-based News Corp. in providing financial news
and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  