-- 
Next Shares Jump to Record as Retailer Sees Better Outlook

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-09-14T16:36:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/next-says-2012-may-be-less-challenging-in-retail.html
Next Plc (NXT) , the U.K.’s second-largest
clothing retailer, forecast that next year may be less
challenging for retailers and raised its annual profit forecast,
sending the shares to a record close.  Consumer spending  may start to improve in the second
quarter of 2012, Chief Executive Officer Simon Wolfson said
today as Next reported a jump in first-half earnings.  “Any recovery in spending is likely to be slow and take a
long time, but it seems reasonable to believe that by the second
quarter of next year we will begin to see some recovery in the
consumer environment,” Wolfson said in a statement.  U.K. retail sales have stagnated this year as government
spending cuts and rising fuel prices leave consumers with less
to spend. Next has benefited from its position as the U.K.’s
biggest online clothing retailer as more people seek the
convenience of home shopping. Sales at the Next Directory unit
rose 15 percent in the first half, while revenue at the
company’s stores fell 1.8 percent, the company said today.  “Next has executed very well in the half,” said  Simon Irwin , an analyst at  Liberum Capital  with a “sell”
recommendation on the shares. The retailer is one of only a few
globally to have managed “significant price rises” through
tight management of inventory and promotions, he said.  Higher Prices  Next said prices increased by 7 percent in the first half
because of higher costs and an increase in U.K. value-added tax.  Selling prices will be broadly unchanged in the first half
of next year as cotton inflation eases and supplier capacity in
the  Far East  improves, Wolfson said.  Next rose 148 pence, or 6.3 percent, to 2,483 pence as of
the 4:30 p.m. close of trading in  London , the steepest gain
since Sept. 15. The stock has gained 26 percent this year, while
larger rival Marks & Spencer Group Plc has fallen 12 percent.  Pretax profit climbed to 228 million pounds ($359 million)
in the six months ended July 30 from 210 million pounds a year
earlier, the Leicester, England-based retailer said. That
compared with the 227.8 million-pound average estimate of nine
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Better availability of products improved sales by 1 percent
to 2 percent in the period as Next placed large orders earlier
in the season, Wolfson said in an interview.  Increased Forecast  “We’ve done slightly better in the first half than we were
expecting and obviously the new season has started relatively
well,” both online and in stores, the CEO said.  Next said it now expects annual pretax profit of 545
million pounds to 590 million pounds, excluding the Ventura
customer-services unit which it sold this year. That’s up from a
prior target of 535 million pounds to 585 million pounds.  Wolfson said his outlook for an improvement in the consumer
climate could be hurt by a worsening European sovereign debt
crisis or more rises in energy prices in the U.K.  The peak Christmas period won’t be “dramatically
different” from the rest of the year, he said.  Home-furnishing sales were “poor,” Next said, as Britons
spent less on more expensive discretionary items.  “People can make do without their sofa or dining room for
longer” than they can do without new clothes, Wolfson said. The
executive said the retailer will continue to open standalone
Home outlets, with another six planned for the remainder of the
year, as it secures better leases from landlords.  “The stores we are opening are all extremely profitable so
though the market as a whole is having a tough time it actually
is a good time to be acquiring” leases, he said.  The retailer increased the interim dividend by 10 percent
to 27.5 pence a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 