-- 
Nigeria Inflation Rate Stays Near Target in August, GDP Growth Accelerates

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-09-14T12:07:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/nigeria-s-annual-inflation-rate-declines-to-9-3-in-august-agency-says.html
Inflation in  Nigeria ,  Africa ’s
biggest oil producer, stayed near the limit of a central bank
target and the economy expanded 7.72 percent in the second
quarter, keeping pressure on the bank to raise interest rates.  The inflation rate fell for a second month to 9.3 percent,
the lowest level in more than three years, from 9.4 percent a
month earlier, Yemi Kale, head of the  National Bureau of
Statistics  told reporters today in Abuja, the capital.  “Much of the improvement in headline consumer price
inflation can still be explained by the positive influence of
domestic food prices, and this should continue in the months
ahead,”  Razia Khan , the London-based head of African economic
research at Standard Chartered Bank Ltd., said today in an e-
mailed note to clients.  The central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate  on July
26 for the fourth consecutive time as it sought to stabilize the
naira and slow inflation to below its 10 percent target. The
bank is determined to make sure inflation remains under control,
Governor Lamido Sanusi said Sept. 7. Policy makers give their
next decision on interest rates on Sept. 20.  With fiscal policy contributing to “excessive liquidity
conditions” and plans by the state-owned Asset Management Corp.
of Nigeria to increase debt issuance, even a pause in inflation
“is unlikely to be the end of Nigeria’s tightening cycle,”
Kahn said.  Nigeria’s economy, the second-biggest in sub-Saharan Africa
after  South Africa , expanded 7.72 percent in the second quarter,
compared with 7.69 percent a year earlier, Kale said. Growth was
driven by the non-oil sector, which expanded 8.82 percent, he
said.  Crude oil production rose to an average of 2.45 million
barrels a day in the second quarter, compared with 2.35 million
barrels a year earlier, boosted by less violence in oil-
producing areas, Kale said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  