-- 
Japanese Stocks Decline as China Signals Reluctance on Europe Bailout

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-09-14T06:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/nikkei-225-advances-as-european-debt-concern-eases-energy-companies-rise.html
Japanese stocks dropped after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said indebted economies must “put their own
houses in order,” damping speculation  China  would rescue  Europe 
from a crisis that has sent global financial markets plunging.  Canon Inc. (7751) , which depends on Europe for about a third of
its sales, sank 4.1 percent.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,
Japan’s largest publicly traded lender, fell 1.8 percent. Sharp
Corp. climbed 3.3 percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised the
electronics maker’s investment rating to “neutral.”  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slipped 1.1 percent to
8,518.57 at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo, reversing earlier gains
of as much as 0.6 percent after Wen’s comments today at the
 World Economic Forum  in the Chinese city of Dalian. The broader
Topix slid 1.1 percent to 741.69.  “He put to rest any speculation China will buy more
European debt,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , who helps oversee $6
billion at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo . “Still nobody
thought that the bond purchases would be enough to solve the
crisis, anyway. There won’t be a resolution unless Europe
addresses its debts in a fundamental way.”  The Topix has fallen 17 percent this year amid concern U.S.
growth is sputtering and Europe’s debt crisis will damage the
banking system, damping demand in two of Japan’s biggest export
markets.  Wen Rebuffs Europe  Japanese stocks extended declines after Wen, facing calls
to widen support for indebted European countries, signaled that
developed nations should cut deficits and create jobs rather
than relying on China to bail out the world economy.  “Countries must first put their own houses in order,” he
said. “Developed countries must take responsible fiscal and
monetary policies. What is most important now is to prevent the
further spread of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe.”  Canon, which counts Europe as its biggest market, sank 4.1
percent to 3,295 yen, extending its decline after Wen’s comments.
Kyocera Corp., an electronics maker that gets almost 20 percent
of its sales in Europe, slumped 1.9 percent to 6,610 yen.  The euro weakened to as much as 104.59 yen, compared with
105.28 when the market opened today in Tokyo. A euro cuts the
value income from the market for  Japan ’s exporters.  Japanese banks dropped on speculation Europe’s crisis will
spread to the financial sector. Mitsubishi UFJ fell 1.8 percent
to 325 yen and its closest rival Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. slid 1.6 percent to 2,072 yen.  Among companies that gained, Sharp climbed 3.3 percent to
595 yen after JPMorgan boosted its investment rating on the
maker of flat-screen panels  to “neutral” from
“underweight.” Sharp said in a statement yesterday it expects
sales in  Indonesia  to grow 27 percent this fiscal year.  Bridgestone Corp. rose 1 percent to 1,683 yen. The
tiremaker said a U.S. unit will raise prices of radial tires for
trucks and buses by as much as 8 percent on Sept. 12 because of
increasing material costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 