-- 
Nippon Steel, Gerdau Said to Be in Talks to Buy Brazil Steelmaker Usiminas

-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 
2011-09-14T22:56:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/nippon-steel-gerdau-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-brazil-steelmaker-usiminas.html
Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) ,  Japan ’s largest
steelmaker, and Brazil’s  Gerdau SA (GGBR4)  are in talks to stave off a
rival $2.9 billion bid for a stake in  Usinas Siderurgicas de
Minas Gerais SA (USIM5) , or Usiminas, said two people familiar with the
negotiations.  Nippon Steel may exercise its right of first refusal and
buy out its partners in the group that controls Usiminas to
thwart the takeover offer from Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA, or
CSN, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
talks are private. Nippon Steel would then resell to Gerdau part
of the 26 percent stake in Usiminas now held by partners Camargo Correa SA and Grupo Votorantim, they said.  CSN,  Brazil ’s third-largest steelmaker, has been buying
Usiminas stock in the market since at least January, when it
said it may boost holdings to a level that may alter management
or the control structure. A move by Nippon Steel to block CSN
and gain control of Usiminas would help the company pursue a
global expansion, analyst Kazuhiro Harada said. Speculation of a
deal helped fueled a rally in Brazil steel stocks today.  “Brazil is one of a few very important bases for Nippon
Steel as it seeks to expand globally,” said Harada, a SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. senior analyst. Usiminas “is best
positioned to target the U.S.,  Latin America  and  Europe  and
 Africa .”  Usiminas rose 3.5 percent to 12.11 reais in Sao Paulo.
Gerdau climbed 3.9 percent to 14.36 reais and CSN rose 2.4
percent to 15.67 reais. Nippon Steel gained 0.9 percent to 223
yen in  Tokyo .  ‘Calling Attention’  The possibility of a deal “is calling the attention of the
market to this sector,” Leonardo Alves, an equity analyst at
Link Investimentos, said by telephone from Sao Paulo.  CSN Chief Executive Officer Benjamin Steinbruch has been in
talks with Camargo Correa and Votorantim and offered to buy
their voting stock for 40 reais each, valuing the 26 percent
stake at 5 billion reais ($2.9 billion), said the same people.  Gerdau is more likely to earn the backing of the government
to lead a consolidation in the steel industry to compete in the
global market, the people said. Brazil’s government is seeking
to boost supplies of the metal used in construction for
infrastructure projects ahead of the 2014  World Cup  and 2016
 Olympic Games .  Nippon Steel, based in Tokyo, aims to derail CSN’s offer
following a disagreement with the steelmaker over how to manage
their Namisa iron-ore unit in Brazil, said the people. Nippon
Steel, as part of a group that included Posco and Itochu Corp.,
agreed in 2008 to buy 40 percent of Namisa from CSN for $3.12
billion. Nippon Steel sold its stake in June.  Boosted Holdings  CSN, which is based in  Sao Paulo , disclosed Aug. 19 that it
raised its stake in Usiminas to 15.15 percent of preferred
shares and 11.29 percent of common stock. Nippon Steel, Camargo
Correa, Votorantim and Mitsubishi Corp. control Usiminas with
53.8 percent of the ordinary shares.  Hiroshi Nakashima, a spokesman for Nippon Steel, declined
to comment. Gerdau, based in  Porto Alegre , Brazil, said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday it’s not involved in negotiations to
buy Usiminas. CSN and Usiminas officials declined to comment.  Nippon Steel is also considering making an offer for the
10.1 percent voting stake held by the pension fund for Usiminas
employees, which CSN is also trying to buy, according to the
people. The fund has hired Credit Suisse Group AG to manage the
sale, they said.  Usiminas, which is based in  Belo Horizonte , Brazil, has
sought backing from Brazil’s government to block CSN’s takeover
attempt, a government official familiar with the issue said
yesterday. Usiminas representatives and antitrust officials from
the finance and justice ministries met last week to discuss the
stake purchases, said the official, who asked not to be
identified because the meetings were private.  Usiminas confirmed in an e-mailed statement yesterday it
met with antitrust officials to “seek clarification from a
competitive standpoint” following CSN’s share purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  