-- 
No Jobs for Bureaucrats as East India’s Bihar State Bids to Curb Poverty

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-09-14T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/no-jobs-for-bureaucrats-as-india-s-bihar-bids-to-curb-poverty.html
Bihar’s chief minister, Nitish Kumar, who runs  India ’s poorest and one of its most corrupt
regions, announced a novel bid to tackle endemic poverty: taking
the state’s bureaucrats out of governing.  His administration placed advertisements in newspapers this
week, seeking a team of professionals to manage a $1.3 billion
annual budget for programs involving  job creation , housing,
infrastructure and microfinance. In Bihar, a state of 103
million people in eastern India at the heart of a nationwide
battle with Maoist guerrillas who draw support from impoverished
peasants, a third of the population live in poverty, the  World
Bank  says.  “We are in the process of creating a new Bihar, and we are
looking for people who want a challenge,” Santhosh Mathew, 50,
the government official in charge of setting up the program,
said in an interview yesterday. “There will be no back-seat
driving” from government officials.  The state government will aim to set up the agency by
December, recruiting about 32 people with a background in
economic development. Bihar is hoping to lure talent from
international bodies like the  World Bank  and the  United Nations ,
according to Mathew.  Since Kumar was elected in 2005, Bihar’s fortunes have
improved. The economy expanded 14.15 percent in the year to
March 2011, the fastest among India’s states, according to
government figures. Rates of robbery, kidnapping and murder have
fallen, removing a stigma of lawlessness. In a state where caste
and class allegiances had for more than a decade determined
voting patterns, his government was returned to power in
November by prioritizing development.  ‘Alarming’ Corruption  “Theoretically this is not a bad idea, taking certain
schemes outside the government structure and outsourcing it to
private hands,” said Shaibal Gupta, secretary of the Patna,
Bihar-based Asian Development Research Institute. It’s no
guarantee of success though, he said  In India, government-run programs seeking to alleviate
poverty are ridden by corruption. About two-thirds of the
subsidized food intended for the poor fails to reach its target,
according a report by the World Bank in May. Bihar has the
lowest annual per-capita income of India’s 32 states and
territories at 16,000 rupees ($340), according to a
parliamentary reply in February.  Bihar was among the Indian states where people faced an
“alarming level” of corruption in accessing government
services, according to a  2008 study  by Transparency
International India and the New Delhi-based Centre for Media
Studies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  