-- 
Nokia Says Chennai Plant Conditions Better Than Report Concludes

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-09-14T09:46:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/nokia-says-chennai-plant-s-conditions-better-than-rights-report-concludes.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s largest
mobile-phone maker by units, said workers at its factory in
Chennai,  India , are better off than concluded in a report by
human-rights organizations.  “As the report says, Nokia pays the highest wages in the
area,”  Doug Dawson , a spokesman for the Espoo, Finland-based
manufacturer, said today in an interview. “The wage comparison
also didn’t take into account benefits like occupational health,
meals, day care and transportation.”  Three business-practice monitoring groups, including
Helsinki-based  Finnwatch , published a study yesterday of four
foreign mobile-phone manufacturers and component makers in
India, calling on the companies to treat temporary and permanent
workers equally and offer high enough pay to allow employees to
start families. Nokia cooperated in the preparation of the
 report , Dawson said.  Nokia’s  Chennai  plant, which Dawson said is the company’s
biggest worldwide, produces more than 300,000 handsets a day and
employs 11,364 people, of whom 19 percent are contract workers
and 26 percent trainees, according to the joint report by
Finnwatch, Amsterdam-based Somo and Bangalore, India-based
Cividep.  Workers at the Chennai site went on strike for two days in
January 2010 to protest disciplinary suspensions.  Wages  Permanent employees at Nokia make 6,000 rupees ($125) to
11,666 rupees a month compared with a minimum wage for India
calculated at 7,967 rupees a month by the Asia Floor Wage
campaign, according to the report. Nokia disagrees with the
rights groups’ comparison of its wages paid in Chennai with
minimum wages in the New Delhi area, Dawson said.  Contract workers received a lower wage of 4,400 rupees
monthly, according to the report. Chennai workers said they
needed at least 9,000 rupees monthly to rent a room and start a
family, it said.  In addition to the Nokia plant, the rights groups’ study
focused on Chennai-area factories of Salcomp Oyj, Flextronics
International Ltd. and Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. The
London-based Financial Times reported on the findings on Nokia
in today’s edition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  