-- 
Novo Sees Degludec Overtaking Lantus ‘in Next 10 Years’

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-09-15T06:43:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/novo-sees-degludec-overtaking-lantus-sometime-in-next-10-years-.html
Novo Nordisk A/S’s experimental
insulin degludec probably will overtake Sanofi’s Lantus
“sometime in the next 10 years,” Novo Chief Science Officer
Mads Krogsgaard Thomsen said.  Degludec helped reduce diabetics’ blood-sugar levels as
well as Lantus, the world’s top-selling insulin, even when
patients didn’t take the drug at set times, according to a study
released yesterday at the  European Association for the Study of
Diabetes  conference in Lisbon.  An aging population and lifestyle changes in poorer
countries are contributing to a surge in the worldwide number of
diabetics, exacerbating the rivalry for market share between
Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novo Nordisk and Paris-based Sanofi.
Novo Nordisk wants degludec to be the first insulin approved for
use at any time of day, giving it a chance to leapfrog Lantus,
which Sanofi says is used by 7 million patients.  “Degludec will be the biggest insulin,” Thomsen, 50, said
in an interview in Lisbon. “It will take years. Which year it
is, I can’t tell you at this point, but degludec is a superior
product. We’re committed to making it the number one basal
insulin in the world.”  Diabetes afflicts 366 million people, killing one every
seven seconds, according to figures released Sept. 13 by the
 International Diabetes Federation .  Regulatory Plan  Novo Nordisk sought a new long-acting insulin because sales
of its older product, Levemir, trailed Lantus. The company will
file degludec with European and U.S. regulators “in the next
very few months,” Thomsen said. The treatment may be approved
as early as next year in the U.S., he said.  “We have a very, very compelling case with degludec” and
“we will be prepared” if U.S. regulators approve the drug in
the second half of 2012, Thomsen said during the interview.
Otherwise the approval will likely come in the first six months
of 2013, he said.  Diabetes is caused by a lack of insulin needed to convert
blood sugar into energy. If not treated, the condition can lead
to kidney damage, blindness, heart problems and death. Long-
acting insulins such as Lantus seek to replicate the steady
stream of the hormone that healthy people produce over 24 hours.  Dosage Timing Range  The study presented yesterday showed that patients taking
degludec once a day at varying times fared about as well as
those taking Lantus at a fixed hour. In the  26-week trial ,
patients were asked to alternate the timing of insulin
injections to suit their daily activities, creating dosing
intervals ranging from eight to 40 hours, according to an
abstract of the study.  It shows degludec can be taken “any time of day, on any
day, in any patient,” Thomsen said. “You can achieve the same
safety and efficacy even with very erratic doses schemes.”  Degludec has been shown to control blood sugar for as long
as 42 hours with a single shot, meaning it won’t be a problem if
patients forget an injection, Thomsen said. The treatment is an
“ultra long-acting” insulin, although Novo decided against
seeking a three-times-a-week label for it, he said.  The drug is likely to reap annual sales of 12 billion
kroner ($2.2 billion) by 2017, according to Alistair Campbell, a
London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank. Philippe Lanone, an
analyst at Natixis Securities based in Paris, forecasts degludec
will garner 18 billion kroner in revenue a year by 2023.  ‘Good Drug’  “Degludec is a very good drug,” Campbell said in a
telephone interview last week. “As it stands now, Levemir has a
distinct disadvantage compared to Lantus. Degludec has to
improve Novo’s market position.”  Sanofi said last week that it expects sales of Lantus to
reach about 4 billion euros ($5.48 billion) this year. Pierre Chancel, who heads Sanofi’s diabetes division, said Lantus
remains “the gold standard” and will keep growing “well
beyond 2015.”  The “differential between degludec and Lantus is going to
be minimal,” Campbell said. “I don’t see lots of patients
switching off Lantus and going to degludec. What will happen is
that in the market share for new-patient starts on insulin, Novo
will now be on a much more level playing field.”  Pricing  Degludec is “a pretty smart insulin” and Novo’s target to
unseat Lantus “is certainly achievable if they get the pricing
right,” David Matthews, professor of diabetes medicine at the
 University of Oxford , said in an interview.  Patients and health-care professionals would be sure to
pick degludec over insulin glargine, the chemical name for
Lantus, “if they do equivalent pricing,” enabling the Novo
Nordisk product to overtake the Sanofi competitor “easily,
within five years,” Matthews said. “But my betting would be
they will get it wrong” and make the new drug more expensive.  Novo Nordisk, which hasn’t announced a brand name for
degludec, will price the new insulin “anywhere in the range of
10 percent to 30 percent” above Lantus, Thomsen said.  “We will not have a dramatic price premium, even though in
the old days this compound could have commanded a very
significant price premium,” he said. “We don’t see a situation
where this is prudent at this point, because of all the health-
care reforms and the macroeconomic environment.”  Target Customers  Degludec will start by initially winning over patients who
turn to insulin for the first time, Thomsen said. It will be a
treatment option even for diabetics with erratic lifestyles and
those who need a lot of insulin and are currently stuck with two
Lantus shots a day, he said.  Degludec also will probably be a favorite for family
members or health-care professionals who administer the shots to
older diabetics and would appreciate more flexible schedules,
according to Stephen Atkin, lead investigator of the degludec
trial and head of academic endocrinology, diabetes and
metabolism at  Hull York Medical School  in  England .  The difference between Lantus and degludec is like that
between “a standard Ford and one that’s got a few bells and
whistles on it,” Matthews said. “If you want everything to be
automatic, you will have to pay a little more. A lot of people
won’t do that.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  