-- 
To Save Euro, Turn Banks Into Mutual Funds: Laurence Kotlikoff

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 
2011-09-14T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/to-save-euro-turn-to-mutual-fund-banks-commentary-by-laurence-kotlikoff.html
Eleven years ago, economic
historian  Niall Ferguson  and I marked the euro’s birth with
a Foreign Affairs article titled “The Degeneration of EMU.” We
argued that absent centralized fiscal policy, euro-zone
countries would fight over how much money the  European Central
Bank  should print to help pay their bills. We gave the euro a
decade.  Tragically, we may end up close to the mark. The euro could
collapse this fall unless the ECB commits to printing every last
euro needed to keep Greece,  Portugal , Ireland,  Italy , Spain and
Lord knows who else (think Belgium and  France ) afloat. That’s a
tall order.  The five most financially strapped euro-area governments
collectively owe more than 3 trillion euros ($4.1 trillion),
much of it short-term debt. They must roll over these
obligations as they come due and issue new bonds to cover their
still huge annual budget deficits. If the private sector doesn’t
buy their paper, the ECB must. The  International Monetary Fund 
and the European Financial Stability Facility can help, but
their lending capacities are limited.  Why not force Greece and other troubled governments to
enact deeper spending cuts and larger tax increases? Lots of
luck. They don’t fancy more rioting, and their economies are
shrinking. In the short run, they have no choice but to borrow
or default.  No Appetite  Unfortunately, the private sector has no appetite for
Greek, Portuguese, and Irish bonds and is losing interest in
Spanish and Italian debt. Greece’s 10-year private borrowing
rate is more than 20 percent. Portugal’s is 11
percent. Ireland’s is 8 percent. These rates are simply
unaffordable, leaving all three governments as wards of the ECB.  Thanks to recent ECB intervention,  Spain  and Italy can
borrow at 5 percent and 6 percent, respectively. But Spain and
Italy must refinance 660 billion euros through the end of 2012.
Private lenders might balk.  Germany  and other solvent nations won’t raise new taxes to
bail out their euro-area neighbors. And they won’t let the ECB
print trillions of euros to continue financing Europe’s current
malfeasants. They know there are more supplicants, both
sovereign states and private banks, waiting in the wings. As
important, they have a deep-seated fear of inflation going back
almost a century.  Calling Quits  Even if the Germans don’t call it quits, struggling
governments might. Greece’s latest bailout -- the 109 billion
euros “agreed to” in July -- contains conditions that  Greece ,
its private creditors and all euro-area members need to accept.
Getting all three to say yes will be tough.  The subtext of this fiscal crisis is the horrendous
financial meltdown that sovereign defaults could trigger. The
 government bonds  are held, in large part, by European
banks. Many of them would be insolvent today were they marking
the bonds to market. But, as the  International Accounting
Standards Board  just confirmed, these lenders are booking this
junk at much higher prices than the market will pay.  Formal defaults would force financial institutions to tell
the truth and declare their own insolvencies. This could trigger
a massive bank run. Euro-zone members guarantee deposits, but
they don’t have reserves remotely sufficient to cover a full-
scale run. Nor can they print money to back account balances.  Cans of Soup  The ECB might step in and “protect” deposits. But if people
kept withdrawing money, this, too, would require printing
trillions of euros, which the public would cart off from banks
they don’t trust. Then, with their money in unsafe keeping,
consumers would try to buy something real: cars, cans of soup,
you name it. They would turn the euro into a hot potato,
producing hyperinflation. Consequently, those who didn’t run on
the banks would retain secure claims to worthless pieces of
colored paper.  Sovereign defaults are only the proximate cause of this
euro-killing nightmare. The real culprit is bank leverage. If
the lenders had no debt, sovereign defaults would reduce the
value of their equity, but wouldn’t shut them down, thereby
destroying the financial-intermediation system.  Non-leveraged banks are, effectively, mutual funds. If
appropriately regulated, mutual funds don’t make promises they
can’t keep and never go bankrupt. Yet they can readily handle
all manner of financial intermediation as 10,000 of them in the
U.S. make abundantly clear.  Default  Countries get into trouble, just like households and firms.
Similarly, nations should be permitted to default without
threatening the global economy. Forcing the banks to operate
with 100 percent equity by transforming them into mutual funds -
- as I have advocated in my  Purple Financial Plan  -- is the
answer to  Europe ’s growing sovereign-debt crisis.  In a nutshell, the ECB tells the banks: “No more borrowing
to buy risky assets, including sovereign debt, and forcing
taxpayers to take the hit when things go south. You’re now
limited to marketing mutual funds, including ones that hold
nothing but cash and will constitute our new payment system.”  Banks would convert checking accounts to cash mutual funds,
which they would back to the buck with reserves. They would
gradually sell their remaining assets to pay off debts, while
the mutual funds built up assets with money attracted from new
shareholders. In cases where the banks’ assets didn’t cover
their debts, governments or the ECB would pitch in money to make
up the difference. But once the mutual-fund banks were up and
running, there would be no need for further bailouts. And the
euro would be safe if and when Greece and other governments
defaulted.  ( Laurence Kotlikoff , a professor of economics at  Boston
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 