-- 
Oaktree Offers $670 Million for Jakks, Saying Toymaker Won’t Enter Talks

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-09-14T13:33:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/oaktree-offers-670-million-for-jakks-saying-toymaker-won-t-enter-talks.html
Oaktree Capital Management LP, the
investment company that oversees $80 billion, said funds it
manages plan to buy  Jakks Pacific Inc. (JAKK)  for about $670 million
after the toymaker refused to enter “meaningful” talks.  The cash offer of $20 a share is about 25 percent more than
Jakks’s closing price yesterday and its 30-day average, Los
Angeles-based Oaktree said in a statement today. The firm said
its funds and accounts now own 4.9 percent of the Malibu,
California-based maker of action figures and electronic toys.  The deal would be the biggest in the toy industry in more
than five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Oaktree’s offer is 6.97 times Jakks’ earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization last year, compared with
the median 8.38 for 16 similar deals since 2006, the data show.
Jakks sells toys under the Pokemon and Star Wars brands.  “We are strong believers in the potential for long-term
value creation at Jakks,” Oaktree said. Taking Jakks private
“would enable the company to execute a long-term value creation
strategy free from the pressures of managing short-term
objectives and seasonality,” the  investment company  said.  Jakks surged $4.25, or 27 percent, to $20.25 at 9:30 a.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The
shares had fallen 12 percent this year before today.  ‘Repeatedly Rebuffed’  The toymaker’s management has since March “repeatedly
rebuffed” the proposal to take the company private, Oaktree
said. “Since the time of our initial discussions in March,
macro-economic conditions have deteriorated significantly, and
the company’s prospects have not improved.”  Jakks Chief Executive Officer Stephen Berman said in a
letter released today that the company would “carefully
consider” the offer. Rothschild Inc. and Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom LLP are acting as Jakks’ advisers, Berman said.  Kirkland & Ellis LLP is advising Oaktree, according to the
investment firm’s statement.  The deal will be the biggest purchase in the toy industry
since  Carlyle Group  paid $1.1 billion for Oriental Trading Co.
in July 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jakks’ products include princess dolls licensed from Walt
Disney Co. and Hello Kitty products through an agreement with
 Japan ’s Sanrio Co. The company in July gained the global master
toy license for the “Men in Black 3” movie being produced by
Sony Corp.’s  Columbia Pictures .  It also produces electronic games that plug into
televisions such as “Big Buck Hunter” and “Pac-Man.”  Second-quarter net income rose 43 percent to $4.24 million
on sales that grew 7 percent to $132 million, Jakks reported in
July. The company affirmed 2011 forecast earnings per share of
$1.32 to $1.35.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  