-- 
Obama Says Jobs Plan Would Boost Hiring by Small Businesses

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-09-15T00:49:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/obama-says-jobs-plan-would-boost-hiring-by-small-businesses-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  again
pressed Congress to act on his plan for boosting hiring, telling
an audience in North Carolina the legislation would help small
businesses expand and help young people and veterans find jobs.  The $447 billion  package  of tax and spending measures
targets benefits to small businesses and would help create jobs
by keeping teachers employed and putting construction crews on
the job rebuilding roads, bridges and school buildings, he said.  “If you’re in favor of America’s jobs creators, this is
your bill,” Obama said at  North Carolina State University  in
Raleigh. “The time for gridlock and games is over. The time for
action is now.”  Obama, who faces re-election next year, is confronting
skepticism from lawmakers and voters about his economic
policies. A majority of Americans don’t believe his $447 billion
jobs plan will help lower the unemployment rate, a Bloomberg
National Poll conducted Sept. 9-12 shows. The poll found 62
percent disapprove of his handling of the economy. The
president’s overall job approval rating was at 45 percent, the
lowest of his presidency.  Obama spoke after touring WestStar Precision, a small
business in Apex,  North Carolina , that specializes in quick
machine work for commercial and industrial clients. The company
has tripled the number of its workers since 2000, according to
the White House.  Action From Congress  Ervin Portman, the company’s founder, said his business
would benefit from the payroll tax provisions of Obama’s plan.  “Let’s tell Congress loud and clear,” Portman said as he
introduced Obama at the university’s Reynolds Coliseum. “It’s
time to get serious about jobs.”  The North Carolina stop marks the president’s third trip to
an electoral battleground state to promote the jobs package
since he unveiled it before a joint session of Congress on Sept.
8. His aides have said he will campaign for it across the
country in an effort to put pressure on Congress to adopt the
measure as the nation’s  unemployment rate  is at 9.1 percent.  Obama repeated his pitch tonight at the Congressional
Hispanic Caucus Institute’s awards gala at the Washington
Convention Center, where he warned that U.S. economic
competitors such as  China  are investing in infrastructure and
education. The U.S. risks being left behind, he said.  He asked his audience for support to win passage, saying
economic progress in the U.S. is intertwined with that of the
Hispanic community.  ‘Political Circus’  “Can we finally put a stop to the political circus and do
something about the economy,” Obama said. “I believe we can
and I believe we must.”  The centerpiece of his plan is a cut in the payroll tax,
which covers the first $106,800 in earnings and is evenly split
between employers and employees. Obama would reduce the portion
paid by workers next year to 3.1 percent from 4.2 percent now.
The rate was cut two percentage points under the terms of a tax
deal reached last year. That cut is set to expire Dec. 31, which
would push the  tax rate  back to 6.2 percent.  Spending Provisions  The package contains spending provisions as well, including
a $105 billion infrastructure proposal for school modernization,
transportation projects and rehabilitation of vacant properties.
The administration also is seeking $35 billion in direct aid to
state and local governments to stem layoffs of educators and
emergency personnel.  Obama would cover most of the cost of his proposal by
raising taxes on top earners, generating about $400 billion over
a decade by capping some deductions and exclusions, according to
the administration’s estimates. The plan also would raise
revenue by taxing carried interest, or profits-based
compensation, of private equity managers, real estate investors
and venture capitalists as ordinary income, instead of more
lightly taxed capital gains, and by ending special tax breaks
for oil and gas companies.  In all, the plan would offset the  payroll tax  cuts,
incentives for small businesses and spending on infrastructure,
school and aid to states by raising $467 billion.  Outlining Choices  As he did in appearances in Ohio yesterday and in Virginia
on Sept. 9, Obama said in North Carolina that the choices are
clear.  “Do we want to keep tax breaks for millionaires and
billionaires?” he said. “Or do you want to cut taxes for small
business owners and middle class families.”  “We know what’s right,” Obama said.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s No. 2
Democrat, said his caucus isn’t yet united behind all of Obama’s
proposals to cover the bill’s $447 billion cost. The resistance
from Obama’s fellow Democrats indicates the president’s plan may
not survive intact, as leaders of the Republican-controlled
House already have said they oppose the proposed tax increase on
the wealthy as well as the spending provisions.  Representative Richard Neal, a Massachusetts Democrat who
is on the Ways and Means panel, said “there is great
skepticism” among party lawmakers about the ways Obama has
proposed to pay for the jobs bill. He called the offsets
“talking points.”  Resistance in Congress  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia  said
yesterday he expects the tax increases Obama is proposing to pay
for his plan will be split off from measures to cut taxes for
workers and small businesses. The more contentious parts of the
legislation may have to be put off until after the 2012
election, he said.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday the
special 12-member congressional panel charged with trimming $1.5
trillion from the nation’s long-term deficit can modify the
administration proposals, as long as the measures aimed at
stimulating hiring are paid for. The president wouldn’t veto
legislation that only enacted part of his plan, he said.  “He would sign it, and then he would return to press the
Congress to get the rest of the job done,” Carney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Raleigh at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 