-- 
Obama Approval Plummets Among Americans Skeptical of Jobs Plan

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/obama-approval-drops-on-skepticism-of-jobs-plan.html
A majority of Americans don’t
believe President Barack Obama’s $447 billion jobs plan will
help lower the  unemployment rate , skepticism he must overcome as
he presses Congress for action and positions himself for re-
election.  The downbeat assessment of the American Jobs Act reflects a
growing and broad sense of dissatisfaction with the president.
Americans disapprove of his handling of the economy by 62
percent to 33 percent, a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Sept.
9-12 shows. The disapproval number represents a nine point
increase from six months ago.  The president’s job approval rating also stands at the
lowest of his presidency -- 45 percent. That rating is driven
down in part by a majority of independents, 53 percent, who
disapprove of his performance.  “I don’t think he’s done as good a job as I think he could
have,” said Paul Kaplan, 58, an unemployed Democrat from
Philadelphia. “We were hopeful that things would improve in the
economy and they’ve only gotten worse. People in Washington just
don’t seem to want to cooperate with each other and work for the
people.”  The poll hands Obama new lows in each of the categories
that measures his performance on the economy: only 36 percent of
respondents approve of his efforts to create jobs, 30 percent
approve of how he’s tackled the  budget deficit  and 39 percent
approve of his handling of health care.  Jobs Bill Skepticism  By a margin of 51 percent to 40 percent, Americans doubt
the package of tax cuts and spending proposals intended to
jumpstart  job creation  that Obama submitted to Congress this
week will bring down the 9.1 percent jobless rate. That
sentiment undermines one of the core arguments the president is
making on the job act’s behalf in a nationwide campaign to build
public support.  Compounding Obama’s challenge is that 56 percent of
independents, whom the president won in 2008 and will need to
win in 2012, are skeptical it will work.  “I think the jobs bill is a good start, but it’s hard to
look at it real positively in light of what’s just happened with
the budget,” said Jason Dumas, a 40 year-old independent voter
from  Charlotte , North Carolina. “The partisanship is still
there and it seems like we’re gearing up more for the
election.”  In all of the categories gauging Obama’s performance on
economic issues, the president’s disapproval rating among
independents is above 50 percent.  Independents’ Disapproval  On the economy, 29 percent of independents approve of the
job Obama is doing while 66 percent disapprove. Obama is weakest
among independents when it comes to his ability to reduce the
deficit -- under a quarter of those respondents approve of his
job in that category, while 67 percent disapprove. On job
creation, 30 percent of independents approve of Obama’s efforts
while 63 percent disapprove. He scored slightly better among
independents on health care with 34 percent approving and 57
percent disapproving.  Forty-six percent of independents say they definitely won’t
vote to re-elect the president, compared to 21 percent who
definitely will support him. In 2008, Obama was backed by 52
percent of independent voters, compared to 44 percent who backed
Republican nominee  John McCain , an Arizona senator, according to
 exit polls .  In addition to lost ground with independents, Obama’s 2008
supporters are less enthused in the wake of the summer’s fight
to raise the debt ceiling and avoid a default, according to the
poll of 997 adults conducted by Selzer & Co., based in  Des
Moines ,  Iowa .  Core Support Decline  Of the respondents who said they’ve supported Obama at one
point since he launched his presidential campaign in 2007, fewer
than half say they still support him as fervently. Thirty-
seven percent say their support has waned and 19 percent say he
lost their backing because they’ve grown disappointed or angry
with his leadership.  Almost a third of Democrats and Democratic-leaning
respondents say they’d like to see Obama face a primary
challenge.  The job performance areas where Obama scores favorably are
his handling of the situation in  Libya  and fighting terrorism.
Another rare bright spot in the poll is his favorability rating,
which stands at 50 percent and is better than all of his
prospective Republican rivals. House Speaker  John Boehner , an
 Ohio  Republican, has a favorability rating of 33 percent
compared to 38 percent who view him unfavorably, a ten point
jump from June before the debt ceiling standoff in August.  Unfavorability Rating  Even that ray of hope is a dim one. Obama’s unfavorability
rating is 47 percent, just three percentage points below his
favorability, which is within the poll’s margin of error of plus
or minus 3.1 percentage points.  “I personally don’t think it’s his fault, I think it’s
Congress,” said Krystal Carter, 40, a Democrat, who is an
esthetician in Davenport,  Florida . “They’re like a bunch of
kindergarteners. I think we just need to vote all them out and
start over.”  As Obama urges Congress to act on the jobs bill and
prepares to engage in debate over a $1.5 trillion to $2 trillion
debt-reduction plan, Americans give him low marks on his
negotiating style. By a margin of 52 percent to 37 percent, they
disapprove of how Obama negotiates with the Republican majority
in the  House of Representatives . Fifty-eight percent of
Democrats approve of Obama’s negotiating skills, while 71
percent of Republicans disapprove. Among independents, 55
percent are critical of his skills.  Stand for Something  “If he believes in something, then he needs to stand for
it,” said Dumas, the  North Carolina  independent who works in
video production. “He needs to back it and not play both sides.
It hasn’t really served him well.”  Obama has pledged to stand firm on the jobs program. “This
isn’t about giving Democrats or Republicans a win. It’s about
giving the American people a win,” he said at a jobs event in
Columbus, Ohio, yesterday.  While respondents are skeptical that the program will
reduce the unemployment rate, the poll found support for some of
its components.  The plan’s call for approximately $35 billion in direct aid
to state and local governments to stem layoffs of educators and
emergency personnel is favored by 71 percent of Americans
compared to 27 percent who oppose it. While the proposal was the
most popular in the poll, it is also the least likely to pass
Congress because Republicans have expressed opposition to new
spending.  Tax Centerpiece  The centerpiece of the proposal -- and the plank that
Republicans have said they are most willing to consider -- is  a
cut in payroll taxes, which cover the first $106,800 in earnings
and are evenly split between employers and employees.  Respondents are evenly split at 45 percent on this
approach, which would cost $240 billion to the  U.S. Treasury .
Independents oppose it 47 percent versus 43 percent who favor
it.  The White House also would use temporary payroll tax
reductions next year to offer incentives for new hiring and to
assist small businesses -- something Kaplan, a Democratic Party
official in Philadelphia, said would help him.  “I hope it gets passed quickly, I’m one of the people who
might benefit from it directly,” he said. “I myself have been
out of work for six months now. I haven’t even had an
interview.”  Others are less optimistic. Since World War II, no U.S.
president has won re-election with a jobless rate above 6
percent, with the exception of  Ronald Reagan , who faced 7.2
percent unemployment on Election Day in 1984.  “He can promise the moon,” said Carter. “But if Congress
can’t get their act together and vote to pass it, it’s never
going to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Washington  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 