-- 
Obama Plan to Tax Health Insurance Stirs Opposition

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 
2011-09-14T17:54:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/obama-tax-plan-attacks-top-earners-health-insurance-in-redux-of-2010-fight.html
President  Barack Obama  is asking
lawmakers to tax the health-insurance benefits of top earners,
stirring opposition from congressional Democrats who fought a
similar proposal in the 2010 health-care law.  The provision, tucked deep inside the 155-page jobs
 legislation  Obama submitted to Congress on Sept. 12, would make
health plans provided by employers partially taxable for couples
earning more than $250,000 a year and individuals earning more
than $200,000.  For these taxpayers, the proposal is a dramatic departure
from their current tax treatment, in which all their health
benefits are exempt from taxation. It also revives a debate
among Democrats over whether taxing health-insurance plans for
the wealthy sets the stage for one day expanding the tax to
lower-income brackets.  “To a large degree, we’ve visited that, and we already --
in health care reform -- did some of that,” said Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat and Finance Committee member who
said he would rather focus on higher taxes for big  oil companies 
than reopen the issue of taxing health benefits.  The resistance from Obama’s fellow Democrats indicates the
president’s plan may not survive intact, as leaders of the
Republican-controlled House have said they oppose other tax
provisions intended to offset the cost of cutting payroll tax
rates and spending on infrastructure, schools and aid to states.  Not United  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s No. 2
Democrat, said the caucus isn’t united behind Obama’s proposals
to cover the bill’s $447 billion cost. Some Democrats would
again oppose taxing some health plans, he said.  House Democrats last year forced revisions to a tax on
high-value insurance plans that was included in the health-care
law. Labor unions, which have fought to increase benefits for
members as companies resisted wage increases, objected to the
levy and pushed successfully to increase the threshold and delay
implementation.  Starting in 2018, a 40 percent tax will be levied on plans
worth more than $10,200 for individuals and $27,500 for
families. The tax will be paid by insurance companies, though
opponents argue that costs will be passed on to consumers.  Bush Tax Cuts  The insurance proposal included in the jobs package would
affect taxpayers in the top brackets starting in 2013. That
year, under the administration’s assumption that lower tax rates
for high earners passed under President  George W. Bush  are
allowed to expire, someone in the 36 percent bracket with a
$10,000 health-insurance policy would be required to pay an
additional $800. Someone in the 39.6 percent bracket with a
$20,000 policy would pay an extra $2,320.  Obama didn’t mention the health-care proposal during a trip
to  Ohio  yesterday to promote the jobs package. The
administration’s summary doesn’t specifically mention it, and
the administration hasn’t promoted the policy rationale.  “This administration that tries to boast about how
transparent it is certainly did not make clear” that it was
proposing to tax health insurance, said Senator  Orrin Hatch  of
 Utah , the top Republican on the Finance Committee, at a panel
hearing today.  Hatch said the administration’s position was “odd” given
that it ran campaign ads in 2008 criticizing a proposal from
Republican candidate  John McCain  that included taxation of
health insurance.  ‘Cadillac’ Plans  An administration official, speaking on condition of
anonymity, said there was no comparison between taxing plans for
the highest earners and the earlier debate over taxing high-
value, so-called Cadillac, health plans. The official, who
wasn’t authorized to speak on the record about the proposal,
said it targets high-income taxpayers who get a greater benefit
from the current tax structure than do middle-income workers.  The official declined to comment on objections being raised
by Democrats.  Senator Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat whose state
includes some of the wealthiest counties in the U.S., said she
didn’t support the health-care tax.  “I disagree with the president,” she said.  The proposal, she said, would be problematic for people
with fluctuating incomes. Some of her constituents “might make
one year $300,000 and the next year $30,000,” she said.  Democratic Skepticism  Representative Richard Neal, a Massachusetts Democrat on
the Ways and Means panel, said “there is great skepticism”
among party lawmakers about the ways Obama has proposed to pay
for the jobs bill. He called the offsets “talking points.”  Representative Joe Courtney, a Connecticut Democrat, was
one of the staunchest opponents in the House to the
administration’s proposal to tax health-insurance plans based on
the size of their premiums. He said yesterday that the
administration’s focus on income thresholds is better.  “To the extent that it’s limited to the highest of
incomes, I think you could make some argument that that’s really
not threatening employment-based benefits as a public policy,”
he said. “This one is not really targeted at scope of benefits
as much as it is means testing.”  Compared with the tax on high-cost plans included in the
health-care overhaul, the new administration proposal would do
less to encourage insurers and employers to rein in health-care
costs, said Paul van de Water, a senior fellow at the  Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities , a Washington-based group that
advocates for low-income people.  Higher Taxes  “Its effect will be much more focused simply on raising
taxes on upper-income people rather than changing behavior,” he
said. “That’s not a bad thing.”  The health-care provision is part of a broader proposal
from the administration to cap at 28 percent itemized deductions
as well as limit other deductions, such as moving expenses, and
some exclusions for high-income taxpayers. Interest earned on
municipal bonds by wealthy individuals would be subject to the
28 percent threshold.  Capping the range of deductions and exclusions would
generate about $400 billion in revenue over a decade, according
to the administration’s estimates. Obama would also find revenue
by taxing the carried interest, or profits-based compensation,
of private equity managers, real estate investors and venture
capitalists as ordinary income, instead of more lightly taxed
capital gains.  Obama’s chief spokesman,  Jay Carney , said yesterday the
special 12-member congressional panel charged with cutting $1.5
trillion from the nation’s long-term deficit can modify the
administration proposals, as long as the measures aimed at
stimulating hiring are offset. The president wouldn’t veto
legislation that enacted only part of his plan, he said.  Obama Would Sign  “He would sign it, and then he would return to press the
Congress to get the rest of the job done,” Carney said.  Representative Rob Andrews, a New Jersey Democrat, said the
health-care provision was “one of the least objectionable among
a bunch of bad ideas.”  “I don’t relish anyone paying more or having to deduct
less,” he said. “But given the fact that we’re borrowing 40
cents of every dollar we’re spending, and we need money to pay
for this jobs bill, I think that’s a plausible and credible
idea.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  