-- 
Obama Aides Pushed For Solyndra Decision

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-14T16:21:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/obama-aides-pushed-for-solyndra-decision.html
President  Barack Obama ’s aides
pressured White House budget officials to complete a review of a
$535 million U.S. loan guarantee to Solyndra LLC, a solar-panel
maker that has filed for  bankruptcy protection , according to a
U.S. House committee report based on e-mails and documents.  Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee
released the findings of a seven-month investigation into U.S.
support for Fremont, California-based Solyndra today before a
hearing where two administration officials faced questions
about White House support for the company and its goals for 
clean energy.  The Department of Energy and the Office of Management and
Budget “did not take adequate steps to protect taxpayer
dollars,” according to the report.  Solyndra, promoted by the Obama administration as a
successful example of the use of stimulus money to spur
development of a clean-energy industry, filed for bankruptcy on
Sept. 6, and two days later its offices were raided by the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation .  “Was Solyndra just one bad bet by an administration
rushing to claim credit for the first loan guarantee, or is it
the tip of the iceberg?” said Committee Chairman Fred Upton, a
Michigan Republican.  Documents collected during the Republicans’ investigation
“raise troubling questions” about whether the staff at the
Office of Management and Budget “was rushed to complete its
review of the Solyndra loan guarantee by Sept. 4, 2009, in time
for a groundbreaking event organized at Solyndra’s facilities
organized by the White House,” according to the report.  Biden, Chu  White House officials wanted Vice President  Joe Biden  and
Energy Secretary Steven Chu to participate in the event.  Obama administration officials weren’t trying to influence
or accelerate the Solyndra review, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said today. The e-mails in the committee report show only
that “there was an urgency to make a decision about a
scheduling matter,” he told reporters traveling with Obama to
an event in  North Carolina . “People were simply looking for
answers about whether or not they can move forward.”  Carney said he hasn’t discussed the matter with Obama. The
administration stands by its investments in alternative-energy
technology, he said.  Jonathan Silver, executive director of the Energy
Department’s loan office, told the committee that pressure from
 China , not senior administration officials, led the department
to support clean-energy companies. That nation provided $30
billion in credit to its largest solar manufacturers last year,
about 20 times the U.S. investment, Silver said.  ‘Cede Leadership’  “The question is whether we are willing to take on this
challenge, or whether we will simply cede leadership in clean
energy to other nations and watch as tens of thousands of jobs
are created overseas,” Silver said.  The Republicans’ report found that the average review time
for loan-guarantee projects after Sept. 1, 2009, was 28 days,
and the review of Solyndra’s proposal, from the Energy
Department’s first presentation to OMB, was nine days.  Earlier in the approval process for Solyndra, in an e-mail
on March 10, 2009, an official at OMB wrote a colleague, “This
deal is NOT ready for prime time.”  Republicans criticized the administration officials for
agreeing to let taxpayer support for Solyndra take a back seat
to $75 million in funds from new investors in an effort to save
the company in a restructuring of the loan terms completed
earlier this year.  ‘Rapid Decline’  “The rapid decline of Solyndra after the restructuring
also raises questions about DOE’s analysis of the company and
the market,” the committee report, referring to the  Department
of Energy .  The financial model used by a credit-rating company to
review the Solyndra guarantee showed “the project would run out
of cash in September 2011,” according to the report.  “This is a liquidity issue,” according to an Aug. 20,
2009, e-mail between Energy Department officials who weren’t
named in the report.  “Should anyone be fired?”  Cliff Stearns , a Florida
Republican and chairman of the Energy Committee’s investigations
panel, said.  Silver said the restructuring gave the company “a fighting
chance to compete and succeed.” Between the new agreement and
the bankruptcy filing, Solyndra paid employees and suppliers
more than $200 million, he said.  Executives’ Testimony  Silver and Jeffrey Zients, deputy director of the White
House Office of Management and Budget, were the only witnesses
today before the House Energy and Commerce panel, after
executives from Fremont, California-based Solyndra delayed their
appearances.  An Energy Committee spokesman said Brian Harrison,
Solyndra’s chief executive officer, and Bill Stover, the chief
financial officer, will testify on Sept. 23.  Representative Henry Waxman, a  California  Democrat, said
executives painted “rosy scenarios” about the company’s
finances two months before it shut down in meetings with members
of Congress.  Republicans and Democrats disputed the role  George W. Bush ’s administration played in the process, as well as the
value of supporting clean energy.  Stearns said a credit-review committee in January 2009,
when Bush was president, denied approval of Solyndra’s
application and asked loan program officials for more
information.  ‘Pushed Through’  “Only after the Obama administration took control, and the
stimulus passed, was the Solyndra deal pushed through,” Stearns
said.  Silver said it wasn’t unusual for the credit committee,
made up of career employees from federal agencies, to seek
additional details during the loan process. Two months later,
after Obama took office, the committee unanimously approved the
application,  Damien LaVera , an Energy Department spokesman, said
in an e-mail.  The Energy Department has provided about $9.6 billion in
loan guarantees to 18 developers and manufacturers since 2009,
including $1.2 billion yesterday to  Abengoa SA (ABG)  of Seville,
 Spain , for its Mojave Solar Project, a 250-megawatt facility in
San Bernardino County, California.  An additional 14 projects have received conditional
commitments for $9.2 billion in guarantees, according to the
Energy Department website.  Silver said most projects are for the generation of
renewable energy, not clean energy manufacturing, and have
different “risk profiles than Solyndra.”  Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat,
said the U.S. was in a “global race” to develop clean energy
technologies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  