-- 
Hoboken Hospital Lawyer Says He Quit Rather Than Participate in Fraud

-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-09-14T20:33:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/hoboken-hospital-attorney-says-he-quit-rather-than-participate-in-fraud.html
The former attorney for Hudson
Healthcare Inc., the nonprofit operator of  Hoboken University
Medical Center  in New Jersey, said he quit rather than take part
in an attempted fraud by the Hoboken Municipal Hospital
Authority.  “I will not participate in the fraud I believe your team
of lawyers is attempting to perpetuate in the  bankruptcy
court ,” Donald Scarinci said to Hudson Healthcare attorney
Joseph DiPasquale, in an e-mail filed with court papers on Sept.
12. “As everyone knows, I resigned from HHI precisely because I
could not and would not be a part of any of this.”  Scarinci, a partner at Scarinci & Hollenbeck, was general
counsel for Hudson Healthcare until mid-July, when he resigned.
Hudson Healthcare filed for Chapter 11 protection Aug. 1 in
 Newark , New Jersey, while the hospital is being sold.  “I was a first hand witness to a pattern of conduct by
HMHA members to intimidate, threaten, control, abuse, and
attempt to force” the chief executive officer and other members
of the Hudson Healthcare board to “take actions adverse to its
charter and otherwise violate the laws of the State of  New
Jersey ,” Scarinci said in court papers.  The hospital itself is owned by Hudson Healthcare, an
authority established by the city of Hoboken when it took over
the facility in early 2007. Hudson Healthcare is the operator of
the hospital.  City Guarantee  The hospital’s bonds are guaranteed by the city. A 2007
bond issue of $51.6 million was refinanced a year later. Since
the money raised was invested in U.S. government securities,
which repay the debt, the bankruptcy doesn’t have any effect on
bondholders. A 2009 bond issue of $9.72 million was redeemed by
the hospital this month.  The hospital lost $39 million from 2008 to 2010 on revenue
of $375 million, a court filing said. Revenue in 2010 was $132
million. The Chapter 11 case is designed to allow operations at
the hospital to continue until the sale can be completed. At
that time, Hudson Healthcare’s contract to operate the hospital
will terminate.  The case is Hudson Healthcare Inc., 11-33014,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  