-- 
Crude Oil Falls as U.S. Gasoline Inventories Increase Unexpectedly in Week

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-09-14T14:38:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/oil-declines-after-inventories-fall-gasoline-stockpiles-rise.html
Crude oil futures maintained their
losses after a U.S. government report showed a decline in
inventories and an unexpected gain in gasoline stockpiles.  Gasoline inventories rose 1.94 million barrels to 210.8
million last week, the Energy Department said today. Stockpiles
were forecast to fall 500,000 barrels, according to the median
of 15 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Inventories of crude oil declined 6.7 million barrels to
346.4 million, the department said. Supplies were forecast to
fall 3 million barrels.  Crude oil for October delivery fell 91 cents, or 1 percent,
to $89.30 a barrel at 10:36 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Oil traded at $89.07 a barrel before the release of
the report at 10:30 a.m. in  Washington .  Oil also declined after government data showed U.S. retail
sales unexpectedly stalled last month, spurring concern over the
strength of the economy and fuel demand.  Futures declined as much as 1.9 percent as the Commerce
Department said sales were unchanged in August following a 0.3
percent gain in July. The  European Central Bank  said it will
lend two banks dollars tomorrow, signaling they are having
borrowing difficulties.  “The  U.S. economy  isn’t looking that good,” said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives and research with Blue
Ocean LLC in  New York . “We’re continuing to look at the
European debt crisis. It’s no longer so much about the Greek
debt itself, but about the banks that hold it, especially the
French banks.”  Retail Sales  Retail sales were forecast to climb 0.2 percent, according
to the median forecast of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Wholesale prices were also little changed in August as
costs decreased for energy and automobiles, according to a Labor
Department report today. The  producer price index  was unchanged
after a 0.2 percent increase in July.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will meet
European Union finance ministers in Wroclaw, Poland, on Sept. 16
and Sept. 17 to discuss efforts to contain the region’s
sovereign-debt troubles, according to a euro-area official who
spoke on condition of anonymity. It will be the first time he
attends a session of Europe’s Economic and Financial Affairs
Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  