-- 
Oil Declines After U.S. Fuel Supplies Increase as Demand Falls

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-09-14T19:54:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/oil-holds-losses-after-energy-department-report-on-inventories.html
Crude oil declined after the U.S.
government reported that fuel inventories climbed, demand
dropped and retail sales stalled in the world’s biggest oil-
consuming country.  Futures decreased 1.4 percent after the Energy Department
said gasoline supplies rose 1.94 million barrels last week, the
biggest gain since June. Fuel use fell 3.8 percent to 18.7
million barrels a day. Refineries operated at 87 percent of
capacity, down 2.3 percentage points from the prior week. The
Commerce Department said retail sales were unchanged in August.  “The market is unsettled because the product builds were
huge, especially given that refinery runs dropped,” said Jason Schenker, the president of Prestige Economics, an energy
advisory company in Austin, Texas. “The retail sales numbers
are another sign that the  U.S. economy  is stagnating, which is a
big concern for the oil market.”  Crude oil for October delivery declined $1.30 to settle at
$88.91 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Yesterday,
the contract climbed 2.3 percent to $90.21, the highest
settlement since Aug. 3.  Brent oil for October settlement rose 51 cents to $112.40 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract was at a premium of $23.49 to U.S.
futures, down from a record $26.62 on Sept. 6 based on
settlement prices.  Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, increased 1.71 million barrels to 158.5
million, the highest level since February, the report showed.  Crude Oil Supplies  Inventories of crude oil declined 6.7 million barrels to
346.4 million, the biggest drop since December, the report
showed. Supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
West Texas Intermediate crude, the U.S. benchmark, fell 460,000
barrels to 32.2 million, the lowest level since November.  Output in the  Gulf of Mexico , which accounts for 27 percent
of U.S. supply, was cut as much as 61 percent last week after
Tropical Storm Lee shut production platforms.  “That’s a huge drawdown in crude supplies,” said Sean Brodrick, a natural resource analyst with  Weiss Research  in
Jupiter,  Florida . “It’s being discounted because of the
tropical storms, which reduced production.”  Gasoline Demand  Gasoline consumption dropped 1.2 percent to 8.85 million
barrels a day in the week ended Sept. 9, the lowest level since
May. U.S. gasoline demand for the fuel peaks during the driving
season, which began with the Memorial Day holiday in late May
and ended with Labor Day on Sept. 5.  “We’ve got ongoing weakness for gasoline, regardless of
the storms,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in  New York . “The crude draw was due to Tropical
Storm Lee and won’t be an ongoing factor.”  U.S. retail sales were forecast to climb 0.2 percent,
according to the median forecast of 83 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Wholesale prices were also little changed in
August as costs decreased for energy and automobiles, according
to a Labor Department report today. The  producer price index  was
unchanged after a 0.2 percent increase in July.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel are “convinced”  Greece  will remain in the euro
area, according to a statement issued by Sarkozy after they
spoke to Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  by telephone
today. Papandreou committed to meet deficit-reduction targets
demanded as a condition for an international bailout.  Dollar Declines  The dollar dropped 0.6 percent to $1.3753 against the euro,
from $1.3678 yesterday, after the statement’s release. A weaker
U.S. currency bolsters the appeal of dollar-denominated raw
materials as an investment.  The  European Central Bank  said it will lend two banks
dollars tomorrow, signaling they are having borrowing
difficulties.  “The U.S. economy isn’t looking that good,” said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives and research with Blue
Ocean LLC in New York. “We’re continuing to look at the
European debt crisis. It’s no longer so much about the Greek
debt itself, but about the banks that hold it, especially the
French banks.”  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, France’s
second- and third-largest banks, had their long-term credit
ratings cut one level by Moody’s Investors Service. Moody’s put
the companies, along with BNP Paribas SA, on review for a
possible downgrade on June 15, citing the risks posed by their
investments in Greece.  Geithner’s Trip  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will meet EU
finance ministers in Wroclaw, Poland, on Sept. 16 and Sept. 17
to discuss efforts to contain the region’s sovereign-debt
troubles, according to a euro-area official who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  “Unless the market can close above $90 you have to be a
seller,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh
Trading Group in New York. “I think we’ll probably test $75
before long.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 645,064
contracts as of 3:09 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 815,122
contracts yesterday. Open interest was 1.46 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 