-- 
Oil Trades Near 2-Day Low on Rising Fuel Stockpiles, European Debt Outlook

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-09-15T00:25:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/oil-declines-for-second-day-in-new-york-as-u-s-fuel-stockpiles-increase.html
Oil traded near a two-day low in
 New York  as signals that U.S. fuel demand is weakening countered
optimism that European leaders will step up efforts to resolve
the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Futures were little changed after slipping as much as 0.4
percent. Gasoline stockpiles rose 1.94 million barrels last
week, the biggest gain since June, according to the Energy
Department. Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, increased to the highest level
since February. Equities and the euro climbed after German and
French leaders said they are “convinced” Greece will remain in
the single currency.  Crude for October delivery was at $88.80 a barrel, down 11
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 10:23 a.m. Sydney time. The contract yesterday slid $1.30, or
1.4 percent, to $88.91. Prices are up 17 percent the past year.  Brent oil for October rose 1 cent to $112.41 a barrel on
the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange yesterday. The
European benchmark contract was at a premium of $23.49 to U.S.
futures, compared with a record $26.87 on Sept. 6.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles were forecast to fall, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts. Consumption of the motor
fuel dropped 1.2 percent to 8.85 million barrels a day in the
week ended Sept. 9, the lowest since May, the Energy Department
report shows.  Angela Merkel  and  Nicolas Sarkozy , the leaders of Europe’s
two biggest economies, issued a statement yesterday following a
telephone conversation with Greek Prime Minister  George
Papandreou . Papandreou committed to meet deficit-reduction
targets demanded as a condition for an international bailout,
according to statements from governments in Athens, Berlin and
Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  