-- 
Old Equipment May Skew Dominion’s Quake Data, Scientist Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-09-14T21:59:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/old-equipment-may-skew-dominion-s-seismic-data-scientist-says.html
Seismic monitoring instruments from
the 1970s, such as the equipment used at a Dominion Resources
Inc. nuclear-power plant in  Virginia , may not provide accurate
readings, a U.S. earthquake scientist said.  Dominion’s monitors at the North Anna plant are “an older
system from the 1970s and it is probably not accurate within 10
percent” and possibly as much as 20 percent, William Leith,
earthquake hazards program coordinator at the  U.S. Geological
Survey , said today at a Nuclear Regulatory Commission meeting.  “Modern systems can certainly provide much faster
information, much more accurate information, than these older
systems that are in many of the nuclear-power plants in the
Eastern U.S.,” he said.  Twin reactors at the North Anna plant, about 11 miles (18
kilometers) from the epicenter of a 5.8-magnitude temblor on
Aug. 23, are shut while the company and NRC inspectors examine
the earthquake’s effects on the facility. Dominion officials
have said that they have found no damage to safety-related
equipment and plan to have the Unit 1 reactor ready for re-start
by Sept. 22, pending regulatory approval.  “It is our experience that ‘70s technology is robust, more
than some newer technologies,’’ Dominion spokesman Richard
Zuercher said in an e-mail today.  Dominion at North Anna relied on tape recorders and
‘‘scratch plates’’ to record ground movement. The plant was
struck by jolts as much as twice its design limit, NRC staff
estimated.  Exceeded Design  The company calculated that the shaking exceeded the
plant’s design by less, ‘‘something between 10 and 20 percent,’’
Eugene Grecheck, vice president for nuclear development, told
reporters Sept. 8. Dominion is ‘‘absolutely confident’’ in its
readings from the equipment at North Anna, he said.  Every nuclear plant should ‘‘at a minimum have a free-field
instrument’’ that records seismic movement away from buildings,
Leith said.  Dominion is installing free-field instruments today, and it
has an ‘‘uninterruptible power supply system’’ for its seismic
equipment in power-plant buildings, Zuercher said. The plant’s
scratch plates are in a reactor containment building and an
auxiliary building.  The lack of modern instrumentation ‘‘hinders a quick, well-
informed decision-making’’ by reactor owners and the NRC, Leith
said. It also ‘‘severely limits an engineer’s ability to
understand’’ how plant components react to ground movement, he
said, citing Dominion’s assessment of nuclear-waste storage
casks at North Anna that moved during the earthquake.  Guidelines established by the Electric Power Research
Institute based in  Palo Alto ,  California , show that for an
earthquake of ‘‘this level of intensity and duration, you should
expect to see no significant damage,’’ Zuercher said. ‘‘And that
is what we are seeing.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  