-- 
Toyota Expands Research on Auto Deaths to Aid Image Repair

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-09-14T20:17:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/toyota-adds-to-safety-sponsorships-at-u-s-technical-center.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Asia ’s largest
carmaker, added 10 projects and six research institutions as
partners to broaden a research effort to reduce auto deaths and
injuries as it tries to win back buyers after record recalls.  Toyota said in January it would spend $50 million over the
next five years on its Collaborative Safety Research Center,
housed at the company’s Ann Arbor,  Michigan , technical center,
focused on reducing harm to children, teenagers and seniors.
Today’s announcement adds research on driver education, crash
avoidance, accident reconstruction and crash-data analysis.  Toyota’s reputation for safety and reliability was damaged
by recalls of millions of cars and light trucks in the U.S. last
year, most for flaws linked to unintended acceleration. Toyota
paid a record $48.8 million in recall-related fines and still
faces lawsuits alleging lost vehicle value, injury or death
resulting from the flaws.  “The establishment of the Collaborative Safety Research
Center is a direct result of the commitment Akio Toyoda made to
Congress and the American people that Toyota was going to do
more to advance automotive safety research,” Chuck Gulash,
director of the research center, told reporters yesterday.  Toyoda is chief executive officer of the Toyota City,
Japan-based automaker and the grandson of its founder.  The new research partners are Massachusetts Institute of
Technology’s AgeLab, Indiana University-Purdue University
Indianapolis’s Transportation Active Safety Institute, Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State University, Wake Forest School
of Medicine, Washtenaw Area Transportation Study and Wayne State
University School of Medicine, Toyota said.  The safety research center will also work with researchers
from the  University of Michigan , Virginia Tech and Children’s
Hospital of Philadelphia on studies, Toyota said in January.  Toyota’s U.S. sales unit is based in Torrance,  California .
The company’s American depositary receipts, representing two
ordinary shares, rose 52 cents, or 0.75 percent, to $69.57 at
4:03 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  