-- 
Toys ‘R’ Us Will Keep Holiday Hiring Unchanged, Boost TV Ads

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-09-14T17:41:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/toys-r-us-will-keep-holiday-hiring-unchanged-boost-tv-ads.html
Toys “R” Us Inc., the world’s
largest toy chain, plans to hire the same amount of seasonal
workers for the holiday season as last year, about 45,000, while
also opening fewer temporary locations.  The number of so-called pop-up stores will be more than the
90 opened in 2009 and less than the 600 operated last year,
Chief Executive Officer Gerald Storch said today during a
presentation in  New York . The retailer has cut these locations
because rents aren’t as favorable and it’s added permanent
stores since last year. The reduction isn’t because the retailer
expects a decline in demand, Storch said in an interview.  “We can produce stronger results with fewer stores,” said
Storch, who is also chairman of the company. “Most retail
initiatives go through a period of learning until they get
perfected.”  The retailer, based in Wayne,  New Jersey , also plans to
spend more money on advertising its exclusive toy lines to help
it stand out from competitors such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and
 Target Corp. (TGT)  It hired an advertising firm to create commercials
for three toys from partners. That was a first for the company,
which had relied on toymakers for mentions in commercials. The
company also mailed a catalog of 350 exclusive items this week.  The company, purchased by private-equity firms KKR & Co.
and Bain Capital LLC along with  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  for $6.6
billion in 2005, declined to comment on its plans for an initial
public offering.  In the quarter ended July 30, the retailer’s sales rose 3.2
percent to $2.65 billion. Sales at stores open at least 56 weeks
in that period fell 2.2 percent, a drop Storch blamed on a
decline in the video-game industry. The net loss was $34 million
compared with a loss of $14 million a year earlier. Earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted
for some items, gained 16 percent to $162 million.  “Go back to 2005, 2006 and people had questions about our
destiny,” said Storch, whose been CEO since 2006. “I believe
we’ve exceeded expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  