-- 
HP Investor ‘Exasperation’ Runs High, Bernstein Report Says

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-09-14T20:25:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/hp-investors-exasperation-runs-high-bernstein-analyst-sacconaghi-says.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  investors are
exasperated with the company’s management and its shares lack an
immediate reason to climb, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst
 Toni Sacconaghi  said in a research report.  The company’s $10.3 billion agreement to acquire software
company Autonomy Corp., announced on Aug. 18, and a plan to
possibly spin off its personal-computer division have investors’
frustration running high, wrote Sacconaghi, who is based in  New
York  and has an “outperform” rating on the shares.  “The overwhelming majority of large HP shareholders remain
opposed to the HP/Autonomy deal,” Sacconaghi said in the report
dated yesterday. “Investor exasperation with the company is the
highest we have seen in 13 years following the sector.”  Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  is trying to jump-
start growth and lift the company’s stock after cutting sales
forecasts three times in less than 11 months at the helm. The
same day it unveiled the Autonomy deal, viewed by some investors
as too expensive, the world’s largest computer maker said it
would explore options for its $41 billion PC unit.  Chairman  Ray Lane  said in a Sept. 1 interview that the
spinoff of the personal-systems group could interest so-called
value investors who want returns through dividends and share
repurchases, and potentially attract investors looking for
growth to Hewlett-Packard shares.  Stock Drops  Shares of Hewlett-Packard had declined 27 percent from Aug.
17, the day before the acquisition and possible spinoff were
disclosed. The stock gained 23 cents, or 1 percent, to $22.93 at
4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange.  Investors are also frustrated with decisions by Hewlett-
Packard’s board, Sacconaghi said. They view the ouster of former
CEO  Mark Hurd  and Apotheker’s hiring as counter to their
interests, Sacconaghi said. There is still a chance for a
takeover bid by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , though the odds of a deal are low,
he said.  Mylene Mangalindan, a spokeswoman for Palo Alto,
California-based Hewlett-Packard, declined to comment.  “Barring a public intervention by activists or a failure
for the Autonomy deal to go through, we see no short-term
catalyst for the stock, even at such depressed valuation
levels,” Sacconaghi said. The shares trade at about five times
expected earnings per share this year. Still, long-term
investors could benefit from Hewlett-Packard’s leadership in
businesses including enterprise computing and printing, and
Sacconaghi expects the shares to reach $37 within a year.  “HP’s stock requires patience,” he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  