-- 
Palestinian Authority Must Cut Spending as Aid Drops, IMF Says

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-09-14T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/palestinian-authority-must-cut-spending-as-aid-drops-imf-says.html
The Palestinian Authority should
cut spending and step up efforts to boost domestic tax
collection as donor countries fail to meet their commitments,
the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The aid shortfall is among factors that have led to a
“significant” slowdown of growth and a liquidity crisis in the
West Bank, the IMF said in a report released today. The
economies of the West Bank and  Gaza Strip  are facing increased
risks, it said.  The Palestinian Authority received $400 million in aid in
the first eight months of the year, compared with an expected
$700 million. This has led to an accumulation of “substantial”
payment arrears, affecting wages for the first time since 2007,
and borrowing up to commercial banks’ limits, the IMF said.  “It is essential that the PA caps expenditure commitments
below budgeted levels,” according to the report. “This will
require strict cost-saving measures.”  Economic growth in the  West Bank  probably will slow to 4
percent this year from 7.6 percent last year, according to the
IMF forecast. Gaza’s growth is likely to accelerate to 17
percent this year from 15.2 percent last year, following the
easing of some import controls by Israel in mid-2010. The Gaza
recovery is “bound to wane” without a further easing of
Israeli restrictions on private-investment inputs, it said.  The IMF report will be presented at a Sept. 18 meeting of
donor nations in  New York  before a Palestinian request for
recognition of statehood by the  United Nations  during the annual
General Assembly meeting that starts Sept. 20.  Demands on Donors  “Donors are experiencing their own financial difficulties,
as they face competing demands for aid from other countries, as
well as domestic pressures for budget cuts,” the IMF said.  Prime Minister Salam Fayyad said in July that the
 Palestinian Authority  had entered a financial crisis and
couldn’t pay full salaries to civil servants because banks
wouldn’t lend it more money and donor states hadn’t fulfilled
their pledges.  The authority plans to pay August salaries a week late, on
Sept. 15, after two months of erratic paychecks, spokesman
 Ghassan Khatib  said Sept. 10.  The Palestinian Authority, led by President Mahmoud Abbas
of the Fatah faction, administers the West Bank. The Islamic
group Hamas, which won Palestinian parliamentary elections in
2006, ousted forces loyal to Abbas from Gaza in 2007 to gain
control of the enclave. Hamas is designated a terrorist group by
Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 