-- 
Pemex Scrapping Peso Bond Sale Signals Deepening Slowdown: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-09-14T12:15:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/pemex-scrapping-bond-sale-deepens-slowdown-in-local-market-mexico-credit.html
Petroleos Mexicanos’s decision to
scrap its first peso bond sale in seven months signals the slump
in local debt issues is deepening.  Pemex, as  Mexico ’s state-controlled oil producer is known,
canceled plans to raise as much as 10 billion pesos ($776
million) in a debt offering yesterday, citing “high
volatility” in markets. Only Mexichem SAB has sold peso debt
this month, extending a slump after offerings sank to a 10-month
low of 7.4 billion pesos in August. In  Russia , no company has
tapped the local market this month after offerings fell to a
four-year low of 20 billion rubles ($662 million) in August.  Mounting concern  Greece ’s debt crisis is spreading to other
European countries is prompting investors to shun higher-
yielding emerging-market assets. Yields on Pemex’s peso bonds
due in 2020 jumped 42 basis points, or 0.42 percentage point, in
the past week, to 7.59 percent, according to data compiled by
Valuacion Operativa y Referencias de Mercado SA..  “We’re living in a disorganized market with the Greece
situation and the expectations for  Italy ,  Spain ,”  Alejandro Hernandez , who helps manage about $1.5 billion of debt at
Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City, said in a
telephone interview. “There will be companies that already have
scheduled placements that obviously need them to keep working,
or to invest, or to do things they need to do. There will be
others like Pemex that say, ‘I’ll wait, I don’t have to rush.’”  Greek Default  Yields on Mexican government peso bonds due in 2021, the
benchmark for companies selling debt in the local market, soared
41 basis points in the past week to 6.44 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on similar-maturity Brazilian
debt rose 13 basis points in the period.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s vow to avoid letting
Greece go into “uncontrolled insolvency” because of the risk
of contagion for other euro-area countries has failed to
reassure investors. There’s a 98 percent chance Greece will
default in the next five years, trading in credit-default swaps
shows.  Slowing growth in the U.S., which buys 80 percent of
Mexico’s exports, is also curbing demand for debt in Latin
America’s second-biggest economy. U.S. gross domestic product
will expand at a 1.6 percent rate in 2011, according to the
median forecasts of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Due to adverse market conditions that have had
repercussions in the local curve, Pemex decided to suspend,
until later notice, the sale of the bonds,” the company’s press
officer said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Pemex will
seek windows of opportunity that it considers convenient in the
market to carry out its financing operations, in accordance with
its needs and annual program.”  Pemex, based in Mexico City, had planned to sell fixed-
rate, floating-rate and inflation-linked bonds.  Paying a Premium  “They sort of feel that because of the noise they’ll have
to pay a premium to the investor to price in this market,”
Bevan Rosenbloom, a credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “If they don’t have to do
it, why would they do it?”  The cost of insuring against default on European sovereign
and bank debt has soared amid concern a default by Greece will
trigger losses for banks holding the government’s bonds.  Pemex’s canceled offering doesn’t mean the company was
unable to find buyers for its debt or that other Mexican
companies will refrain from tapping the market, said  Guillermo Rodriguez , who helps manage about $5.5 billion at Corp. Actinver
SAB. Comision Federal de Electricidad,  Ford Motor  Co.’s local
unit, and Banco Compartamos SA plan to sell debt as soon as this
month, according to stock exchange filings.  ‘Secure Credit’  Pemex is “a very secure credit,” Rodriguez said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City. “It was more the decision
of the company than the market. The rate movements in the last
two or three days have been very important in terms of
increasing the cost for the company, and if you don’t have such
big financing needs, then I say you can wait until they
normalize.”  Compartamos is seeking regulatory authorization to sell its
bonds as soon as Sept. 22, said Patricio Diez de Bonilla, the
company’s chief financial officer.  “We’ll keep seeing volatile markets in the coming
months,” Diez de Bonilla said in a telephone interview from
Mexico City. “Depending on when they give us the authorization,
we’ll be analyzing whether the conditions of the market are
favorable for the sale. We still see the possibility of doing
it, despite the volatility.”  CFE is also planning to go ahead with its sale, spokesman
Estefano Conde said in a telephone interview from Mexico City,
without giving a specific date for the offering.  A local press official for Ford Motor didn’t immediately
return messages seeking comment.  Investment Plans  Pemex,  Latin America ’s largest oil producer, will invest
about $27 billion a year during the next decade to reverse a
six-year decline in oil output, according to company
presentations this year.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  fell three basis points to 222
at 8:11 a.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
index.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 12.8681 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on futures contracts due in October, known as TIIE,
rose one basis point to 4.70 percent yesterday, signaling  Banco
de Mexico  may lower the key rate that month to shore up growth
amid the global slowdown.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell three basis points yesterday to 169, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on Pemex’s peso bonds due in 2021 touched 7 percent
on Aug. 22, the lowest since the securities were issued in
January 2010, before the sell-off, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The funding bogey that they were looking to hit is
obviously quite sensitive to present market conditions,”
 Michael Roche , an emerging-market strategist at MF Global in  New
York , said in a telephone interview. “Getting a deal off
domestically is a bit more costly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  