-- 
Pension Funds Punished for Lowest Bond Stakes: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-09-15T04:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/pension-funds-punished-for-lowest-allocations-to-bonds-australia-credit.html
Australian pension funds, which
manage the world’s fourth-largest pool of assets, are being
punished for the lowest allocations to bonds among developed
nations as fixed-income securities beat stocks for the longest
stretch since at least 1997.  Australian superannuation funds posted a 0.9 percent loss
in the second quarter, according to the  Australian Prudential 
Regulation Authority. About 11 percent of the $1.2 trillion in
 Australia ’s retirement funds was invested in bills and bonds
last year, the least of 27 nations tracked by the  Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development . Forty-seven percent
was in equities, the most after the U.S. and  Finland .  Debt in Australia has gained every month in 2011 while
stocks have lost 11 percent since Dec. 31, based on the
Australian Stock Exchange Accumulation All Ordinaries Index.
Sovereign securities are poised for their best year since 2008
as near-zero interest rates in the U.S., Japan and  Switzerland ,
prompt investors to buy the South Pacific nation’s higher-
yielding bonds.  “In Australia we still have this cult of equity even
though bonds have provided much better returns over the past
five years,” said Vimal Gor, the Sydney-based head of income
and fixed interest at BT Investment Management Ltd., where he
oversees A$13 billion ($13.3 billion). “We’ve got a lot of
great companies here in Australia but you can’t really expect
the Australian equity market to be unaffected by a global
storm.”  Above Average Returns  The country’s debt has offered the second-best returns
since Dec. 31 across 26 markets, while its stocks were the
third-biggest losers among developed Asia-Pacific economies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The median return on
bond funds in Australia was 3.7 percent for the three months
ended Aug. 31, compared with an 8.2 percent loss for equity
funds, Morningstar Inc. rankings show.  “If global equity markets continue to come under stress we
fully expect further gains in sovereign bonds,” Gor said.  Australian federal debt has returned 10.9 percent this
year, behind only the 11.1 percent for Swedish bonds among
markets covered by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analyst Societies. Australian notes rallied 20 percent
in 2008.  Stocks Lose  The All Ordinaries index of the stocks of Australia’s 500
largest companies has lost 0.3 percent for investors since Aug.
31, 2006, compared with a 43 percent return for Australian bonds
in Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Retirement funds delivered an annual average net loss of
2.8 percent from 2008 to 2010, the worst performance after
Estonia’s negative 3.7 percent, the OECD’s “Pension Markets in
Focus” report released in July showed. The weighted average
return for 26 markets was 0.4 percent, with the U.S.,  Japan ,
U.K. and Australia the four largest, the data showed.  “In most OECD countries for which we received data, bonds
-- not equity -- remain by far the dominant asset class,” the
OECD said in its report. Countries where equities make up 30
percent or less of the overall portfolio have suffered less from
turmoil in global stock markets, the report said.  Before 2008, the All Ordinaries stock index rose in nine of
the previous 10 years with BHP Billiton Ltd., Rio Tinto Group
and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  contributing most to the
advances.  BHP, Rio Gains  Gains in BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, and Rio,
the second-largest, have been driven by Chinese imports of
Australian commodities including  iron ore  and coal. The value of
the nation’s iron ore exports surged to A$5.3 billion a month in
July from A$356 million in December 1997 and coking coal
shipments climbed to A$2.4 billion from A$548 million at the end
of 1997.  “We stand out globally as having a bit more of a growth or
equity bias across allocations in super funds,” said Susan Buckley, head of global fixed-interest at QIC, which manages
about A$25 billion in bonds and cash.  Australia’s growth prospects prompted central bank Governor
 Glenn Stevens  to raise benchmark borrowing costs seven times
beginning in October 2009, to 4.75 percent in November 2010 to
help control inflation.  China  is Australia’s largest export market followed by
Japan,  South Korea  and  India , Australian government data show.  Aussie Dollar  The central bank’s actions spurred gains in the Australian
dollar to as much as $1.1081 on July 27, its strongest level
since being freely floated in 1983. The currency traded at
$1.0211 as of 2:05 p.m. in Sydney.  Higher yields and the links to  Asia  have drawn foreign
investors seeking alternatives to fiscal crises and slower
growth in  Europe  and the U.S. Seventy-five percent of
Australia’s sovereign debt was held by offshore investors in the
second quarter, up from 73 percent in the previous three months
and 63 percent at the end of 2009, according to data from the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia and the statistics bureau.  Three-year sovereign yields in Australia slid 1.79
percentage points this year to 3.48 percent today, heading for
the biggest decline since 2008’s 3.82-point drop.  The next 1 to 1.5 percentage points of change for the
three-year bond yield is “most probably lower not higher,”
said BT Investment’s Gor. The flagship A$760 million BT
Government Bond Fund has delivered 89 basis points more in
returns than the UBS Government Index in the eight months ended
Aug. 31, he said.  Yields Fall  The benchmark 10-year bond yield has fallen 26 basis
points, or 0.26 percentage point, in September to 4.11 percent.
That’s down from this year’s high of 5.84 percent in February
and compares with 1.98 percent on similar-maturity notes in the
U.S., 1.88 percent in  Germany  and 0.99 percent in Japan.  A drop for September would mark the ninth monthly decline
in 10-year rates, the longest stretch since at least 1978.  “Rather than saying  interest rates  are too low, investors
should be more concerned about what low rates are telling them
about economic growth and expected returns on risky assets,”
said  Robert Mead , a  money manager  in Sydney at Pacific
Investment Management Co., which oversees the world’s biggest
bond fund.  The OECD slashed its growth forecasts for the U.S. and
Japan this month and said central banks around the world should
be ready to ease monetary policy to aid their economies.  Cash Futures  The  U.S. economy  will expand 1.1 percent in the third
quarter and 0.4 percent in the fourth, instead of the 2.9
percent and 3 percent predicted in May, the OECD said Sept. 8.
Japan will grow 4.1 percent in the third quarter before stalling
in the fourth.  Cash-rate futures show traders are wagering that the RBA
will reduce Australia’s benchmark to 3.80 percent by December.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of stocks has dropped 5.2 percent in
September, heading for its first five-month losing streak since
a six-month retreat completed in November 2008. The Australian
All Ordinaries Index is down 5.4 percent.  While pension funds have responded to those declines by
paring equity holdings, they’re favoring investments such as
private equity and infrastructure rather than adding bonds, said
Pauline Vamos, the Sydney-based chief executive officer of the
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia Ltd.  APRA data show that 29 percent of retirement assets were
invested in Australian equities as of June 2010, with 23 percent
in international stocks and about 16 percent in fixed-interest
investments.  ‘Spreading Their Risk’  “Pension funds are investing longer-term and they’re
looking at spreading their risk as much as possible,” said
Vamos, whose organization’s membership represents more than 90
percent of Australians holding retirement accounts. “I’m not
sure we’ve going to see much of an increase in fixed interest
because of the global financial crisis since it was seen to be
so volatile and illiquid in the end.”  Concern the global economic recovery is stalling has
boosted the perceived risk of Australian corporate bonds.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index of credit-default swaps
rose to 194.8 basis points on Sept. 12, the most since July
2009, according to data from CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The gauge surged to 443.3 in March 2009 amid
the credit freeze following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  The index dropped 3.5 basis points to 183.5 basis points as
of 10:35 a.m. in Sydney, according to Credit Agricole CIB
prices.  The spread between the interest Australian banks pay when
borrowing from each other for three months and swaps tracking
expectations for the RBA’s benchmark fell four basis points
today to 55 basis points and closed at 61 basis points on Aug.
8, the highest since January 2009. The gap is a gauge of banks’
difficulty in accessing funds.  The extra yield investors demand to own company bonds in
Australia instead of similar-maturity government debt fell to
224 basis points yesterday after reaching 227 on Sept. 12, the
most since December 2009. It widened to as much as 433 basis
points in April 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Australian Corporate & Collateralized Index.  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan today introduced
legislation allowing financial companies to sell covered bonds
at home, a move the nation’s Treasury estimates may lead to
A$130 billion ($133 billion) of sales.  The law will amend the nation’s Banking Act to allow
domestic lenders to sell the debt for the first time.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  