-- 
Perry’s Merck Donations Raise Questions About Vaccine Mandate

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-09-14T04:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/perry-s-merck-donations-raise-questions-about-vaccine-mandate.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  ‘s
decision to require pre-teen girls to be vaccinated against a
virus that causes cervical cancer has ignited debate over
whether the presidential hopeful used his office to do favors
for political allies.  Perry, who is seeking the Republican presidential
nomination, received at least $23,500 in campaign contributions
from drug-maker Merck & Co., including $5,000 in 2006, the year
before he ordered girls throughout the state to take a new Merck
vaccine. The drug-maker also has donated about $500,000 to the
 Republican Governors Association , a group which Perry headed
twice and has been among his most generous campaign donors.  One of Perry’s rivals for the presidential nomination,
Representative  Michele Bachmann , a Minnesota Republican,
suggested during a debate two days ago that the governor issued
the executive order to help a political donor that also employed
a former senior aide as a lobbyist.  “The question is, is it about life or was it about
millions of dollars, and potentially billions, for a  drug
company ?” Bachmann asked during the debate in Tampa sponsored
by  CNN  and Tea Party activists.  “If you’re saying that I can be bought for $5,000, I’m
offended,” Perry responded, implying that was the extent of his
support from the Whitehouse Station,  New Jersey , company.  Perry spokesman Mark Miner suggested Bachmann was using the
issue to get herself back into the headlines.  Misleading Facts  “There are people in this race who are trying to elevate
their names and get into the news cycle based on false and
misleading facts,” Miner said in a telephone interview.  In addition to the political donations, Perry’s ties to the
company have come under scrutiny because he issued the
vaccination mandate at a time when his former chief of staff was
working for the  Texas  Lobby Group, which was retained by Merck.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  approved the vaccine
Gardasil in June 2006. The following year, Perry issued an
executive order that Texas girls be vaccinated against human
papillomavirus (HPV) by age 12, and Gardasil was the only such
drug on the market. Perry said his goal was saving lives by
reducing cases of cervical cancer and other diseases.  “The governor erred on the side of life,” Miner said.  The state legislature didn’t agree with Perry and
overturned his order. The mandate was never implemented, Miner
said.  Successful Fundraiser  The Texas governor has been one of the most successful
fund-raisers, bringing in more than $100 million during his
decade in Austin and boosting the influence of the governors’
association while in the leadership of that group.  Pam Eisele, a Merck spokeswoman, said the firm “is
strongly committed to decreasing the number of males and females
impacted by HPV related diseases.”  In 2007, Eisele said, the company’s lobbying became a
distraction in several states, including Texas. “So, in an
effort to get the focus back to this important issue, Merck
suspended its lobbying efforts on state school requirements,”
she said.  About 12,000 women are diagnosed with and 4,000 die from
cervical cancer each year, and most cases are caused by HPV, she
said.  Perry’s own Merck donations date back to 2004, according to
campaign finance disclosures compiled by the Helena, Montana-
based National Institute on Money in State Politics.  Annual Contributions  The company donated about $500,000 to the RGA since 2003,
according to the Washington-based Center for Responsive
Politics, including annual checks for $50,000 from 2005 through
this year. Perry served as RGA vice chairman in 2007 and
chairman in 2008 and for several months of this year.  The pharmaceutical industry has been a major contributor to
the governor’s association, with several companies donating far
more than Merck ever did.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  contributed almost $1
million to the group in the 2008 election cycle, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  wrote checks
totaling more than $600,000 in the 2010 cycle.  In addition, Mike Toomey, a former Texas state House member
who served as Perry’s chief of staff, became a lobbyist for the
firm after leaving the governor’s office.  Toomey also is a founder of the pro-Perry Super PAC, Make
Us Great Again, which is raising money to help get the Texas
governor elected to the White House. Toomey didn’t respond to a
telephone message seeking comment.  “This is just another shameful example showing Rick Perry
putting his special interest friends ahead of the people of
Texas,´ said Ty Matsdorf, a spokesman for American Bridge 21st
Century, a pro-Democrat opposition research group. “He has built
a pay-to-play network during his tenure that represents
everything the American people believe is wrong with politics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  