-- 
Perry Courts Evangelical Voters in Urging `Christian Values' as Guide

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-09-15T04:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/perry-wants-christian-values-guiding-nation.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Rick Perry , in an appeal to evangelical voters, said “Christian
values” and not “a bunch of Washington politicians” should be
the touchstone guiding how Americans conduct their lives.  In a 20-minute address at  Liberty University , a Christian
institution in Lynchburg,  Virginia , the  Texas  governor -- and
his party’s White House frontrunner -- avoided specific campaign
issues in describing his own “faith journey.” Perry is working
to maintain momentum in the a race for the Republican nomination
whose outcome could turn in large part on the preferences of
evangelicals.  “America is going to be guided by some set of values,”
Perry told a crowd of 13,000 students and faculty members
yesterday at a sports arena on the school’s campus. “The
question is going to be, ‘Whose values?’” He said it should be
“those Christian values that this country was based upon.”  Perry, under attack from the left and right as Republican
opponents challenge his positions on Social Security,
immigration and vaccinations, bypassed those issues at the
university’s thrice-weekly convocation service.  Instead, he introduced himself as an imperfect underdog who
grew up poor -- with no indoor plumbing until age 5 and wearing
clothes sewn by his mother -- struggled in school and lost his
way before finding God.  ‘Faith Journey’  “My faith journey is not the story of someone who turned
to God because I wanted to; it was because I had nowhere else to
turn,” Perry said, recounting how, as a confused 27-year-old
Air Force pilot, he turned to religion to give him direction in
life. “He doesn’t require perfect people to execute his perfect
plan,” Perry said. “God uses broken people to reach a broken
world.”  Evangelical voters have been influential in recent
Republican presidential primaries, comprising almost half of
those who turn out to vote, according to polling analysts. They
hold outsized sway in  Iowa , site of the nation’s first caucuses,
where 60 percent of participants in the 2008 Republican contest
described themselves to pollsters as born-again or evangelical
Christians.  Perry is competing for this bloc primarily with
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , the winner of the
Aug. 13 Iowa straw poll who has seen her standing in public
surveys plummet since Perry entered the race the following day.  Bachmann Next  Bachmann is to speak at Liberty on Sept. 28. School
Chancellor Jerry Falwell Jr. -- son and namesake of the late social conservative commentator who founded the university --
said he had invited Perry to speak before he was a candidate for
president. By month’s end, Falwell said, five of the eight
Republican presidential contenders will have spoken here.  It’s no longer solely social issues that will determine the
preferences of evangelical voters, Falwell said in an interview
before Perry spoke.  “The shift towards socialism -- I think that’s become an
overriding issue,” Falwell said. “It used to be abortion, gay
marriage, whatever. But now it’s more: How much of my taxes, how
much more is government going to grow, how many of my freedoms
are going to be taken away? That’s what’s brought the  Tea Party 
and social conservatives and fiscal conservatives all
together.”  Perry closed his talk with a dig at the federal government,
telling students: “Don’t leave it to a bunch of Washington
politicians to tell you how to live your life.”  No Endorsement  Falwell said he hasn’t endorsed any Republican presidential
contender, yet made it clear he is a fan of Perry’s. He waved
off a controversy over Perry’s 2007 attempt to mandate
vaccinations of pre-teen girls in Texas against the sexually
transmitted human papillomavirus, a cause of cervical cancer.  Perry said during a Sept. 12 debate that it was a
“mistake” not to have consulted with the Texas legislature on
the move, an answer Falwell said was “good enough for me.”  Falwell introduced Perry to students as a successful
governor with an “A-plus” grade from the  National Rifle
Association  and “among the most pro-life governors in American
history.” He compared Perry favorably with  Ronald Reagan .  Falwell recounted how, as a freshman at Liberty, he went to
hear then-California Governor Reagan speak at a time of national
malaise, then watched as he was elected president and “returned
America to prominence and prosperity.”  “I have a feeling today that history is about to repeat
itself,” Falwell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Lynchburg, Virginia, at
  or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  