-- 
Ackman Bets Hong Kong Dollar to Appreciate

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-09-15T07:12:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/pershing-s-ackman-bets-hong-kong-dollar-to-appreciate-against-its-u-s-peg.html
William Ackman , founder of hedge
fund Pershing Square Capital Management LP, said he’s placed a
wager that would profit if Hong Kong allows its currency to
appreciate against the dollar.  Ackman is buying Hong Kong dollar call options, which give
investors the right to buy the currency at a set price by a
specific date, because they are inexpensive, he said. The
easiest way for the authorities to allow the currency to
appreciate would be to change the peg to HK$6 versus per  U.S.
dollar , a 30 percent gain, and then link to the yuan over three
to six years, he said.  “It’s a small trade, but if it’s successful, it will be
our most profitable,” said Ackman, speaking at an investor
conference yesterday in New York organized by CNBC and
Institutional Investor.  The  Hong Kong  dollar has been kept at about HK$7.80 versus
the greenback since 1983, causing it to weaken 7 percent against
the Chinese yuan in the past two years, fueling inflation and a
surge in property prices. The Hong Kong Monetary Authority “has
no plan or intention to change the system as it continues to
serve Hong Kong well,” the de facto central bank said in an e-
mail reply to questions from Bloomberg News today.  Given the small and externally oriented nature of the Hong
Kong economy, maintaining exchange-rate stability remains
appropriate for the city, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said
in an earlier reply on Sept. 6.  Implied Volatility  The implied volatility on two-year options for the  exchange
rate  between U.S. and Hong Kong dollars has jumped to 3.6
percent from 1.7 percent at the start of the year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Implied volatility, which traders
quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
swings in an underlying currency.  Implied volatility on two-year options for the exchange
rate between U.S. and the yuan rose to 7.37 percent from 5.25
percent at the beginning of the year, Bloomberg data show.  The fixed exchange rate means Hong Kong monetary policy is
largely dictated by the U.S., where a 9.2 percent jobless rate
and housing slump have led the  Federal Reserve  to favor near-
zero  interest rates  and asset purchases to prop up the economy.
Hong Kong’s 3.5 percent unemployment rate is near the lowest
level since 2008, and real-estate values climbed in each of the
last 10 quarters, jumping 75 percent in that time. Inflation was
7.9 percent last month, the fastest pace since 1995.  Interest Rates  Some economists and bankers agree that Hong Kong can’t
sustain the current peg with the U.S. dollar. In January, Hong
Kong lawmakers Chim Pui Chung and Lam Tai Fai urged a review of
the peg.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  chief executive  Stuart Gulliver  and
his counterpart at the  Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23) , David Li, said
last month that any shift by Hong Kong could be to a link with a
basket of currencies.  “The inflation print in Hong Kong remains quite high and
the low-interest rate policy isn’t appropriate,” said David Dimmock, director of fixed income and currencies at Societe
Generale SA in Hong Kong. “However, with slowdown in growth and
more uncertainty in the global environment, it’s difficult to
see the HKMA will take the risky move to change the policy until
things settle down.”  Chinese officials told European Union business executives
that the yuan will achieve “full convertibility” by 2015, EU
Chamber of Commerce in China President Davide Cucino said on
Sept. 7. Inability to exchange the currency freely prevents it
from being used in reserves or in a linked exchange-rate system.  “Pegging the  Hong Kong dollar  to the yuan is only possible
when the Chinese currency is convertible, which will likely be
in at least 2015,” said Tommy Ong, senior vice-president of
treasury and markets at DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Ltd. “Linking to
an appreciating currency like the yuan could harm Hong Kong’s
exports. It’s not something Hong Kong wants to see given the
gloomy economic outlook.”  Ackman, 45, has been hinting at a new trade since an Aug.
17 investor letter, in which he wrote about “an attractive
standalone investment and one that offers significant hedging
benefits for our portfolio. For a modest amount of capital
commitment, this investment offers the potential for
extraordinary profits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  