-- 
Peru’s Mining Tax Change to Maximize Revenue, Castilla Says

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-09-14T19:31:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/peru-s-mining-tax-change-to-maximize-revenue-castilla-says-1-.html
Peru ’s overhaul of its mining tax
system will maximize government revenue while ensuring companies
proceed with more than $40 billion of investment in new mines,
Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said.  Companies won’t pay more than 50 percent of their operating
profits under the new tax regime, Castilla told reporters in
Lima. The government will send the legislation to congress
today, he said.  President  Ollanta Humala  won June 5 presidential elections
on pledges to raise mining royalties and tighten state control
over natural resources. Peru, the world’s third-largest producer
of copper and zinc and sixth of gold, boosted first-half mining
export revenue by 31 percent as  gold prices  climbed to an all-
time high.  “The new legislation will maximize government revenue,
protect the competitiveness of the industry and preserve the
juridical security of contracts that have been signed,”
Castilla said.  Under Peru’s existing system, royalties are based on sales.
The new system will be fairer because it levies taxes on
operating profits instead of revenue, Castilla said.  Companies with contracts that protect them from higher
taxes will be subject to a separate levy on profits, he said.  Windfall Tax  Mining companies agreed last month to pay the levy, which
would provide the government with an annual windfall of 3
billion soles ($1.1 billion) based on metal prices in the first
half of this year, Cabinet Chief Salomon Lerner said Aug. 25.  The figure “is an approximate number, as with falling
copper prices the tax may be lower,”  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) 
Chief Executive Officer Oscar Gonzalez Rocha, said in an
interview yesterday. “The tax will be paid when it becomes law,
which may be Jan. 1, but with the government’s urgency, they may
bring the date forward.”  The Andean country is relying on investments by companies
including  Southern Copper ,  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , and  Xstrata Plc (XTA) 
to halt a decline in minerals output as aging mines deplete. The
expansion of copper and zinc mines will boost production next
year, Mining Minister Carlos Herrera said Sept. 9.  Peru’s sol was little changed at 2.7315 per  U.S. dollar  at
2:44 p.m. in  New York , compared with 2.7310 yesterday.  Stimulus Package  Rising metal prices will allow the government to post its
first fiscal surplus since 2008 this year and help pay for a
package of stimulus measures designed to counter the effects of
a global slowdown, Castilla said.  The government will have a fiscal surplus of more than 1
percent of gross domestic product, even after spending 0.5
percent of GDP on the stimulus, which it will implement before
the end of this year, he said.  “We’ll initiate a preventive economic stimulus to mitigate
a likely decline in activity next year,” Castilla said. “The
winds that are blowing aren’t going to be favorable for Peru or
the world.”  The government will accelerate small infrastructure
projects and step up the rebuilding of the southern coastal town
of Pisco, which was devastated by an earthquake in 2007, he
said. The government is also studying measures to help exporters
if demand for their products contracts.  The $153 billion economy remains “solid” and may have
grown 6 percent in July from a year earlier, Castilla said.  Peru’s National Statistics Institute will publish a report
on July’s GDP tomorrow. The economy expanded 5.3 percent in June
and 6.6 percent in the second quarter of this year, according to
the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  