-- 
Philippine Peso Falls to 2-Month Low on Growth Risk; Bonds Drop

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-09-14T08:45:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/philippine-peso-declines-to-two-month-low-on-slowdown-concerns.html
The Philippine peso fell to a two-
month low after the central bank said the economic slowdown in
the U.S. and  Europe  poses risks to remittances from abroad,
exports and investment.  Government bonds  dropped.  Capital inflows are a “key headwind,” Governor Amando
Tetangco said in a speech to traders and fund managers
yesterday. Policy makers may raise the charges for trading non-
deliverable forwards to ensure they are used only for legitimate
hedging purposes, he told reporters.  “Global risks remain the main concern, plus stronger
pronouncements from the regulator that it won’t tolerate
unnecessary gains in the currency prompted investors to cover
short positions,” said Lito Mercado, head of trading at Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp. in Manila. A short position is a bet an
asset will decline in value.  The peso dropped 0.6 percent to 43.225 per dollar at the 4
p.m. close of trading in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon
Plc. It touched 43.28, the weakest level since July 1.  The  Philippines  will keep a market-determined  exchange rate 
“with scope for official action to maintain orderly market
conditions,” Tetangco said in the speech last night. The
central bank is urging the government to pay some of its
overseas debt ahead of schedule by borrowing from the domestic
market, he said.  “It has always been our position that there is a place for
NDFs that cover legitimate hedging transactions,” he said.
“But not for much else. Perhaps the time has come to consider
if the NDF has ceased to meet the need it was intended for.”  The yield on the government’s 6.5 percent bonds due April
2021 rose 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 5.70
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. That’s the
biggest increase since May 17.  The government is “amenable” to paying some foreign-
currency debt ahead of schedule, depending on opportunity and
price, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  