-- 
Portugal’s Ongoing May Invest in Brazil Education, Chairman Says

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   J i m   S i l v e r
-- 
2011-09-14T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/portugal-s-ongoing-may-invest-in-brazil-education-chairman-says.html
Ongoing Strategy Investment SGPS
SA, the second-biggest shareholder of  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC) ,
is looking to invest in education in  Brazil  to help meet demand
from a growing middle class, Chairman Nuno Vasconcellos said.  “We’ve been working for some time on a long-distance
education project,” he said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York . Brazil’s economic growth
and the government’s emphasis on improving the country’s levels
of schooling provide “a good opportunity for people to start
investing in education in Brazil.”  Ongoing Strategy’s 10 percent stake in Portugal Telecom,
the second largest after Banco Espirito Santo SA, gives it an
indirect holding in Oi, Brazil’s largest fixed-line company. It
also owns the O Dia newspaper and business daily Brasil
Economico in the country.  The Portuguese investment firm aims to invest in education
in  Latin America ’s largest economy, where 25 million people
escaped poverty and 36 million moved into the lowest rung of the
middle class over the past decade, according to researchers at
the Rio de Janeiro-based Getulio Vargas Foundation.  Ongoing Strategy said in July it plans to spend 350 million
euros ($479 million) in three years to expand outside Portugal.
The focus is on Portuguese-speaking countries, mainly Brazil, as
about two-thirds of the world’s Portuguese speakers are there,
Vasconcellos said.  He declined to give details about possible education
investments. Ongoing is also seeking investments in China,
Vasconcellos said.  “There isn’t a business lunch I have where I don’t come up
with a business proposition on the table” in Brazil and  China ,
he said. “It’s not like this in Europe or in the  United
States .”  Portugal Telecom bought 25.3 percent of Brazilian carrier
Telemar Norte Leste SA, which operates under the Oi brand, in
March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Silver in New York at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Brad Skillman at 
 bskillman1@bloomberg.net  