-- 
Prokhorov Blames Kremlin in ‘Hostile Takeover’ of His Party

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-09-14T17:05:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/prokhorov-blames-kremlin-in-hostile-takeover-of-his-party-1-.html
Russian billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  dissolved the executive committee of the pro-business
Pravoye Delo party amid what he called an attempted “hostile
takeover” by the Kremlin.  Twenty-one “fake” candidates appeared at a party congress
today, replacing elected party members from the regions in a
“raid,” Prokhorov, the New Jersey Nets owner, told reporters
in Moscow.  “You are waiting for my announcement that I am stepping
down as the party Chairman? Fat chance!” Prokhorov told a crowd
of reporters in his office in the center of Moscow today. The
Kremlin press service declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg.  Prokhorov, owner of a fortune that Forbes estimates at
about $18 billion, headed the pro-business party in June.
Pravoye Delo is set to battle with  Vladimir Putin ’s United
 Russia  during parliamentary elections in December.  Prokhorov, an investor in United Co. Rusal and Polyus Gold
International Ltd., said he discussed the development of Pravoye
Delo with  Vladislav Surkov , the first deputy chief of staff of
President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s administration, earlier this week.  Members of Pravoye Delo, representing Russia’s different
territories, have been pressed by the regions for participating
in an opposition party, Prokhorov said. Upon arrival in Moscow
for today’s party congress, some of them were invited for
‘talks’ with Kremlin administration, he said.  The congress chose a mandate committee and a counting board
behind the chairman’s back, while the discussions and voting
were scheduled for Sept. 15, Prokhorov said. He fired the
officials elected as “illegitimate,” using his right set in
the party’s charter, he said.  The real congress meeting will take place tomorrow, the
chairman said. Prokhorov promised to attend and draw final
conclusions on today’s attack on the party. Alla Pugachyova, a
62-year-old ex-Soviet singer, agreed to attend the congress
tomorrow, Prokhorov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  