-- 
Qaddafi’s Son Saadi Transferred to Presidential Villa in Niger’s Capital

-- B y   D j i b r i l   S a i d o u   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-14T07:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/qaddafi-s-son-saadi-is-transferred-to-presidential-villa-in-niger-capital.html
Muammar Qaddafi’s son, Saadi, was
transferred to a house in the presidential villa in  Niger ’s
capital, Niamey.  Qaddafi was flown from Agadez in northern Niger to Niamey
yesterday and traveled in a five-car convoy from the airport to
a house near the residence of Nigerien President Mahamadou Issoufo, said Mohamed Moussa, a police officer who escorted the
procession. Images of Qaddafi’s arrival on board a Niger army
aircraft were shown on Tele Dounia, a closely held broadcaster.  “He arrived in Niamey and was taken to a villa,” Moussa
said in a phone interview yesterday. Other former Libyan
officials, including three generals, are also being housed in
villas in the city, he said.  Saadi Qaddafi went to Niger several days after some of his
father’s senior loyalists, including his intelligence chief,
fled to Niamey.  Muammar Qaddafi ’s wife, Safia, daughter Aisha
and two sons, Hannibal and Mohammed, with their wives and
children, arrived at the end of August in Algeria, where they
were granted exile.  While these family members, including Saadi, have no arrest
warrants against them, their journeys outside Libya may violate
a United Nations travel ban.  Saadi Qaddafi is “essentially” under house arrest and is
being detained in a government facility, U.S. State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said late yesterday in  Washington .
Niger and Libya’s new leaders in the National Transitional
Council are trying to “work through this together,” she said.  Qaddafi Eludes Capture  About three weeks after the opposition took control of the
capital, Tripoli, Muammar Qaddafi has eluded capture. His
spokesman, Moussa Ibrahim, says he is in  Libya . The North
African nation’s new leaders are attempting to consolidate their
gains, restore stability and create a functioning government.  More than six months of fighting to end Qaddafi’s 42-year
rule have reduced oil output and disrupted power supplies in the
country with Africa’s largest crude reserves.  Amnesty International  said in  a report  yesterday that the
NTC must do more to stop its forces from committing abuses that
may amount to  war crimes .  It urged the transitional council to stop arbitrary
detentions, stamp out racism and xenophobia among its fighters
against black Africans and treat detainees humanely.  At least 32 Libyans have arrived in Niger since Sept. 2 and
are being hosted by the West African nation for “humanitarian
reasons,” Prime Minister Brigi Rafini told reporters yesterday
in Niamey.  “Among these people, no one is under an international
arrest warrant,” Rafini said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Djibril Saidou in Niamey via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 