-- 
Trabzonspor Upsets Inter Milan in Champions League; Manchester Clubs Draw

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-09-14T23:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/trabzonspor-beats-inter-in-champions-league-bayern-real-win.html
Trabzonspor defeated three-time
champion  Inter Milan  1-0 in its debut in soccer’s Champions
League group stage.  Ondrej Celustka scored with Trabzonspor’s only shot on
target to give the Turkish team the away win in Group B. 
Trabzonspor got a place after Fenerbahce was banned from 
 Europe ’s elite club competition by the Turkish federation.  “Unfortunately we didn’t manage to finish, and with only
one shot on goal they scored,” Inter captain Javier Zanetti
told his team’s website. “The only thing to do is put our heads
down and work.”  Former champions Bayern Munich and Real Madrid both won
away matches last night, while Premier League rivals  Manchester
United  and Manchester City rallied for draws.  At the Stadio Giuseppe Meazza in Milan, Celustka scored in
the 76th minute. The defender fired a shot past Inter goalkeeper
Julio Cesar after Halil Altintop’s shot rang off the crossbar
and into his path.  Trabzonspor gained a place in the group stage after losing
to Benfica in qualifying when the Turkish soccer federation
last month withdrew champion Fenerbahce, which is involved in a 
police investigation into alleged match fixing.  Toni Kroos and Rafinha got the goals as  Bayern Munich  won
2-0 at Villarreal in Group A, while Manchester City drew 1-1 at
home with Napoli in a matchup of teams making their debuts in
the group stage.  ‘Good Performance’  “We did a fine job,” Bayern coach Jupp Heynckes said on
UEFA’s website. “My players knew before the match that we
needed a good performance and that’s what they delivered.”  Aleksandar Kolarov scored with a free kick in the 74th
minute to earn City the tie. It came five minutes after Edinson
Cavani gave Napoli the lead with a shot past Joe Hart.  “The first game is always difficult,” City manager
 Roberto Mancini  told  Sky Sports . “We wanted to win, but the
Champions League is hard. For us it was important to play
well.”  Angel  Di Maria  scored in the 53rd minute to give record
nine-time winner Real Madrid a 1-0 win at Dinamo Zagreb in Group
D. Real finished with 10 men after defender Marcelo received his
second yellow card in the 73rd minute. Ajax and Lyon drew 0-0 in
the group’s other match.  Giggs Scores  Ryan Giggs’s goal three minutes before halftime gave
Manchester United, runner-up last season to Barcelona, a 1-1
draw at Benfica in Group C. The 37-year-old cut toward the
middle from the right side and fired a left-footed shot from
about 20 yards (18 meters) past goalkeeper Artur.  Oscar Cardozo  scored for Benfica in the 24th minute. United
didn’t allow a goal in six  Champions League  away matches last
season en route to the final.  Fabian Frei put Basel ahead with a 39th-minute goal and
Alexander Frei’s penalty kick with six minutes remaining gave
the home team a 2-1 win over Otelul Galati in the other Group C
match.  Basel’s Benjamin Huggel picked up his second yellow card in
the 87th minute, five minutes after Adrian Salageanu was red-
carded for the Romanian team.  Seydou Doumbia’s second goal of the game in the final
minute earned CSKA Moscow a 2-2 tie at Lille in Group B. Moussa
Sow and Benoit Pedretti scored for the French side.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 