-- 
Rand, South African Bonds Weaken on MOunting European Debt-Crisis Concern

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-09-14T14:07:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/rand-south-african-bonds-weaken-on-mounting-european-debt-crisis-concern.html
The rand weakened for a second day
against the dollar and bond yields climbed to the highest in a
month as commodity prices slumped on concern the euro-zone debt
crisis will dim prospects for the nation’s raw-material exports.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy depreciated as
much as 1.8 percent to 7.4337 per dollar and traded 1.1 percent
weaker at 7.3820 as of 3:41 p.m. in Johannesburg. The 13.5
percent notes due 2015 dropped 37 cents to 122.533 rand,
boosting the yield eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
to 6.936 percent. The yield has climbed 61 basis points since
falling to a record low of 6.327 on a closing basis on Sept. 9.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou will hold a
conference call with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy today amid increasing speculation that
 Greece  will default. Commodities gauged by the S&P GSCI Index
slumped to a two-week low, weighed down by investors’ concerns  “The market is still straining under debt and global
growth fears,” Standard Bank Group Ltd. analysts led by
Johannesburg-based Michael Keenan wrote in a research note. “We
still favor selling into rand strength,” they added, referring
to selling the currency when it temporarily rallies.  The rand may decline to 7.52 per dollar this week, the
Standard Bank analysts said.  The Manila-based  Asian Development Bank  cut its growth
forecasts for the region excluding  Japan  today and raised the
area’s inflation estimate to 5.8 percent this year, from a
previous forecast of 5.3 percent, saying price increases will
put pressure on policy makers to raise rates even as a faltering
global recovery curbs growth.  China , the top user of copper, energy and grains, raised
 interest rates  for the third time this year in July to combat
rising consumer prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  