-- 
Transnet of South Africa to End Manganese-Line Expansion Study by February

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-09-14T15:34:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/transnet-of-south-africa-to-end-manganese-line-expansion-study-by-february.html
Transnet SOC Ltd.,  South Africa ’s
state-run port and rail utility, plans to complete a feasibility
study on expanding a manganese rail line to its deepwater Ngqura
export harbor in Eastern Cape Province by February.  Transnet is seeking to expand capacity on its line to the
city of  Port Elizabeth , which passes Ngqura, to 12 million
metric tons a year from 7 million tons now, Siyabonga Gama, head
of the company’s freight-rail business, told reporters at the
Tshipi mine in Northern Cape province today. Transnet may boost
the figure to as much as 22 million tons after 2017, he said.  Manganese producers including  African Rainbow Minerals Ltd. (ARI) 
and  BHP Billiton Plc (BIL) ’s 60 percent-held Samancor Manganese that
are seeking access to a line used to transport  iron ore  from the
mining center of Sishen in the Northern Cape to the West Coast
harbor of Saldanha won’t be able to use the railroad, Gama said.  “We need a single channel to run iron ore, and a different
channel to run manganese,” he said, adding that Saldanha will
remain an iron port.  South African manganese producers are facing rail and port
infrastructure constraints. Transnet is able to transport about
4.8 million tons a year by rail for export from Port Elizabeth
and 1 million tons through Durban, Africa’s busiest port. About
1 million tons are trucked to Richards Bay harbor, Gama said.  Rail, Port Constraints  Producers including  Kalahari Resources  and  Tshipi e Ntle
Manganese Mining Ltd.  in the Kalahari basin, the richest deposit
in the world, need to wait for rail slots before shipments can
begin, Gama said. That may be in March 2013, when current rail
contracts expire. Kalahari Resources and Tshipi are pre-
qualified for rail allocation “for long-term purposes,” Gama
said. “They are not allocated any capacity at the moment.”  Output will depend on capacity to transport ore, Tshipi
Chairman Saki Macozoma said at the mine. Tshipi forecast annual
output of 2.4 million tons from the first half of 2012 on its
website.  “We won’t extract more than we can sell,” he said. The
company is in talks with Transnet over an “interim solution”
before rail capacity is available in 2013, Macozoma said, adding
that Tshipi is not interested in transporting ore by road.  The company will also rely on diesel generators as Eskom
Holdings SOC will only provide power from 2013, he said.  The state-run electricity company is struggling with power
shortages after the government delayed expansion plans. South
 Africa  is seeking alternatives to coal-fired power stations
after blackouts closed mines in the country in early 2008.  Transnet, which is funding the feasibility study, said it
is “open-minded” about companies joining the project and is
having “very detailed” discussions with potential partners.
It’s too early to talk about the expansion’s costs, Gama said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  