-- 
Treasuries Drop as Eased European Concern Pares Refuge Demand

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-09-14T12:59:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/treasuries-snap-two-day-slide-before-retail-sales-producer-price-reports.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell for a
third straight day as speculation China will buy bonds from
European nations stricken by the sovereign-debt crisis damped
demand for the safety of  U.S. debt .  Thirty-year bonds declined as the government prepared to
sell $13 billion of the securities today. U.S. debt securities
briefly pared their losses as government reports showed
America’s retail sales unexpectedly stalled in August and
producer prices were unchanged.  “Retail sales are weaker than anticipated, but there
wasn’t a huge amount of hope for the numbers,” said Guy LeBas,
chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia.  Yields on 10-year notes increased three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 2.02 percent at 8:53 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
securities due in August 2021 fell 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 29/32. The yield earlier today touched 1.96
percent and fell on Sept. 12 to a record low 1.8770 percent.  U.S. 30-year bond yields climbed four basis points to 3.37
percent before today’s auction. Two-year note yields were little
changed at 0.20 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.7
percent after earlier rising 1.2 percent. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index rose 1.5 percent, reversing an earlier decline of as much
as 1 percent.  U.S. retail sales were flat in August after a revised
increase of 0.3 percent in the prior month, the Commerce
Department reported. The median forecast of 83 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for 0.2 percent gain.  Wholesale Prices  The Labor Department’s producer price index was unchanged
last month after a 0.2 percent increase in July, matching the
median forecast in a separate Bloomberg News survey.  “If the  U.S. economy  is to avoid another recession,
economic growth must accelerate above its stall speed of about 2
percent,” wrote  Tony Crescenzi , a market strategist and
portfolio manager for Pacific Investment Management Co. in
 Newport Beach ,  California , in an e-mailed message. “The
preponderance of data indicate continued growth at or below the
economy’s stall speed,” he said.  The $245 billion Pimco Total Return Fund increased holdings
of Treasuries to 16 percent of assets in August from 10 percent
in July, according to the company website.  The 30-year bonds being sold today yielded 3.355 percent in
pre-auction trading, compared with 3.750 percent at the previous
sale of the securities on Aug. 11. Bonds tumbled that day as
speculation  Federal Reserve  policies will stoke inflation sapped
demand at the auction.  Auction Demand  Investors bid for 2.08 times the amount of debt offered
last month, the least since February 2009. Indirect bidders, the
investor group that includes foreign central banks, bought 12.2
percent of the securities, the lowest level since 2008.  The long bonds have returned 23 percent this year, compared
with 15 percent for 10-year notes and 1.4 percent for two-year
securities, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  “The bullish momentum can continue,” said Tomohisa Fujiki, an interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas Securities
Japan Ltd. in  Tokyo . “Our economist is forecasting that the
U.S. is going to shrink in the fourth quarter, and that will
help Treasuries.” BNP’s U.S. unit is one of the 20 primary
dealers that trade directly with the Fed.  In  Italy , Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s government won
a confidence vote in the Chamber of Deputies on its 54 billion-
euro ($74 billion) austerity package, paving the way for final
approval of the legislation.  Euro Bonds  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said he is close
to proposing options on joint euro-area bond sales, putting
officials in Brussels on a collision course with  Germany  over
steps to contain the debt crisis.  “The commission will soon present options for the
introduction of euro bonds,” Barroso told the European
Parliament in Strasbourg,  France , today, prompting applause from
lawmakers who have backed the idea. “Some of these options could
be implemented within the terms of the current treaty; others
would require treaty change.”  China ’s Caijing magazine cited  Zhang Xiaoqiang , a vice
chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission, as
saying the country would buy the bonds of euro-area nations hit
by the debt crisis.  Premier Wen Jiabao, facing calls to widen support for
indebted European countries, signaled at the  World Economic
Forum  in Dalian, China, that developed nations should cut
deficits and open markets rather than rely on the Asian nation
to bail out the world economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  