-- 
Treasury Department’s Watchdog Probes Federal Bank Role in Solyndra’s Loan

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-09-14T18:32:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/treasury-department-s-watchdog-probes-federal-bank-role-in-solyndra-s-loan.html
The U.S. Treasury Department’s
inspector general is investigating the Federal Financing Bank’s
role in providing $527 million of federal financing to Solyndra
LLC, a solar-panel manufacturer that filed for  bankruptcy
protection  this month.  The watchdog is examining the circumstances of the loan,
part of a process that occurs “whenever there are questions
raised as to the efficiency or integrity of a Treasury program
or operation,” Rich Delmar, counsel to the Treasury’s inspector
general, said today in an e-mailed statement.  Solyndra, promoted by the Obama administration as a
successful example of stimulus money spurring development of a
clean-energy industry, filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 6. The
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  raided the company’s Fremont,
California, headquarters two days later joined by the Energy
Department’s office of inspector general, which has questioned
the Obama administration’s documentation of loan guarantees.  The  financing bank , part of the Treasury, loaned money to
Solyndra under the administration’s guarantees.  David Miller , a
Solyndra spokesman, didn’t have an immediate response to the
investigation.  An inspector general’s routine audit of the Federal
Financing Bank for fiscal 2010, using an independent public
accountant, reviewed whether some disbursements for the Solyndra
loan were properly authorized and recorded, and “found that
they were,” Delmar said.  Republicans on the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee
today released findings from a seven-month investigation into
U.S. support for the company before a hearing where lawmakers
questioned two administration officials about White House
support for the company and its goals for clean energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  