-- 
Rebekah Brooks Loses Bid to Join U.K. Inquiry of News Corp. Phone Hacking

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-14T15:58:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/rebekah-brooks-loses-bid-to-gain-core-status-at-u-k-phone-hacking-inquiry.html
Rebekah Brooks, the former chief
executive officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s British publishing unit, lost
a bid to have formal legal representation in the U.K.
government’s inquiry into phone hacking.  Brooks, who was arrested in July, shouldn’t be a so-called
core participant in the inquiry’s hearings because she resigned
as CEO, according to a judgment today by Justice Brian Leveson,
who is leading the review. Core-participant status and right to
have a lawyer present was granted to 46 lawyers and potential
hacking victims, including Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling and
British actor  Hugh Grant .  “Had Mrs. Brooks still been employed by News International
Ltd., it may be that she would have coordinated its response;
that responsibility now passes to someone else,” Leveson said
today. News Corp.’s U.K. unit and the Metropolitan Police were
also given core-participant status.  The probe of the culture, practices and ethics of the press
was announced on July 13 by U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
nine days after the revelation that journalists at News Corp.’s
News of the World hacked into the phone of murdered school girl
Milly Dowler. The probe’s scope extends beyond the now-shuttered
tabloid, covering the wider press, including journalists’
contact with politicians and the police.  Brooks, 43, edited the News of the World from 2000 to 2003
and then The Sun newspaper until 2009 before being promoted to
CEO of News International, which published both titles. She
stepped down on July 15, two days before being arrested.  Mulcaire Hacking  While Brooks was editing the News of the World, the
company’s private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  was hacking into
celebrities’ mobile phones to get scoops for reporters. She has
denied knowing about the practice. Mulcaire pleaded guilty to
hacking and was jailed in 2007.  A spokeswoman for Brooks with Bell Pottinger in  London ,
declined to comment.  Police, who have arrested 16 people since reopening the
hacking probe in January, are also investigating whether
journalists bribed officers for confidential information. The
scandal led New York-based News Corp. to close the 168-year-old
tabloid and drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.3 billion) bid for
full control of British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc.  Leveson said in July he would use his powers to compel
witnesses to give statements and provide documents. He said he
may miss Cameron’s suggested 12-month deadline for an initial
report because of the complexities and breadth of the inquiry.  Taylor Settlement  Mark Lewis , a lawyer for dozens of alleged victims,
including Dowler’s parents and sister, was also made a core
participant. He represented  Gordon Taylor  when News Corp. paid
the chief executive of the Professional Footballers’ Association
a then-secret settlement over phone hacking.  “I hope that my evidence will assist the inquiry into
determining the true extent of the power of the press,” Lewis
said in a statement. The press’s influence over politics and
policing affects people both directly and indirectly, he said.  Dowler’s family was granted core-participant status, as
were celebrity lawyer Graham Shear, whose phone may have been
hacked, and  Sienna Miller , the actress whose early civil lawsuit
against News International resulted in new hacking evidence
being uncovered.  Other core participants include sports agent Sky Andrew,
politician  Simon Hughes , celebrity publicist  Max Clifford  and
former Formula One executive  Max Mosley , who won a record
60,000-pound judgment in 2008 against News of the World for
violating his right to privacy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  