-- 
Redwood Plans Second Mortgage-Bond Deal in Market of 2011

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-09-14T19:58:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/redwood-plans-second-mortgage-securitization-tied-to-jumbo-loans-in-2011.html
Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT) , the only issuer
of new home-loan securities without government backing since the
market froze, plans to sell bonds tied to $375 million of so-
called jumbo mortgages, in the second deal this year.  The loans, whose balances average $793,292, were acquired
from six lenders, with 80 percent from  First Republic Bank  and
PHH Mortgage Corp.,  Fitch Ratings  said today in an e-mailed
report. Almost $348 million of the securities are expected to
get the top credit grades, the ranking company said.  Redwood, an investment firm based in Mill Valley,
California, has conducted the only three securitizations of new
U.S. mortgages since the market seized up in mid-2008 amid
soaring defaults, tumbling  home prices  and a global financial
crisis. The firm packaged $534 million of loans into securities
in the deals, after annual issuance of non-agency home-loan
bonds peaked at about $1.2 trillion in each of 2005 and 2006.  “The market is still thawing from its deep freeze,”
Martin S. Hughes, the company’s chief executive officer and
president, told lawmakers during a Sept. 7 hearing in
 Washington . Redwood, which issued mortgage securities in
February, expects to do two more deals this year, he said.  Hurdles to the mortgage-bond market’s revival include
demand from banks for loans to hold on their balance sheets and
government programs “crowding out” private financing, he said.  Michael McMahon, a spokesman for Redwood, declined to
comment on its latest deal.  Lawmakers Consider  Jumbo mortgages are larger than government-supported  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac  can finance, from $417,000 in most places to
$729,750 in high-cost areas, a limit that is set to decrease on
Oct. 1 unless lawmakers renew it.  Loans bought or guaranteed by the Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac
or the  Federal Housing Administration  have accounted for about
95 percent of new home lending since 2009.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the
world’s largest money manager, and  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO) ,
an investment firm run by Pine Rive Capital Management LP, are
among companies that have said they are also seeking loans for
non-agency securities, which lack government backing.  Lawmakers have been considering how the $10 trillion U.S.
housing-finance market should evolve. A Senate panel yesterday
questioned three professors and Peter J. Wallison, a member of
the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, on whether the market
requires government guarantees.  Key Issues  The mortgage-bond market has to “resolve several key
regulatory and market issues, including reform of underwriting
and servicing standards, greater investor protections, and
addressing the second mortgage problem,” Redwood’s Martin said
last week during a House subcommittee hearing, referring to
borrowers’ ability to reduce  home equity  with additional loans
after their mortgages are originated.  Richard Green , chairman of the Lusk Center for Real Estate
at the University of Southern  California , said at yesterday’s
hearing that explicit government guarantees of mortgage lending
are necessary. He pointed to a recent experience obtaining a
jumbo mortgage in the private market.  “It was very striking to me because when my wife and I got
our first mortgage, when we had our jobs for a year and all we
had in the bank was a down-payment and that was it, it took like
two days to get approved,” he said. “It took us four months to
get approved on our jumbo non-cashout refinance.”  Wallison, the FCIC member who wrote a dissenting report
blaming the government for the financial crisis, argued
yesterday the mortgage market can be left to private firms.  Junk Bonds   “There’s $13 trillion in fixed-income investments made by
institutional investors,” said Wallison, a fellow at the
 American Enterprise Institute . “They’re looking for more fixed-
income investments of various kinds of course.” Their
willingness to take credit risk is shown in purchases of
corporate bonds with junk ratings, he said.  Speculative-grade, or junk-rated companies, have raised
$201.3 billion of bonds this year, after $287.6 billion last
year, the most ever, according to data compiled by Bloomberg  Almost $17 billion of non-agency home-loan bonds were
created in the first half of this year, down from more than $31
billion last year, as banks and investment firms repackaged
older securities and created notes backed by troubled or
seasoned loans, according to  newsletter  Asset-Backed Alert.  Redwood may sell the AAA rated securities on its latest
deal at projected yields over benchmark rates of 2.4 percentage
points to 2.5 percentage points, according to a person familiar
with the deal who declined to be identified because the
transaction is private. The firm may also sell $10.3 million of
AA rated bonds, the person said.  Borrowers in the Redwood deal have average annual income of
$537,000, and almost 90 percent have liquid assets equal to more
than two years of their monthly mortgage payments, according to
Fitch. Credit scores average 773 and average combined loan-to-
value ratio is 64.2 percent, the firm said in its report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  