-- 
Regulator Probing Sino-Forest Says Canada Should Discuss Reverse Takeovers

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-09-14T20:39:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/regulator-probing-sino-forest-says-canada-should-discuss-reverse-takeovers.html
(Corrects to say regulator “varied” order in ninth
paragraph.)  The head of Canada’s largest
regulator, investigating fraud allegations at  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) ,
said the country needs to discuss whether reverse takeovers are
appropriate for Toronto-listed companies that have operations
overseas.  “We need to take a look at RTOs,” Ontario Securities
Commission Chairman Howard Wetston said today at a Toronto Board
of Trade event. “One of the issues that might flow from our
examinations of the emerging-markets issues is to have a good
discussion about whether the RTO as a vehicle is appropriate.”  The OSC is investigating Sino-Forest, a timber producer
with holdings in  China  that listed in Canada through a reverse
takeover. In a reverse takeover, a closely held firm becomes
public by purchasing a shell company that already trades. In
June, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued a
warning about buying stakes in companies that gain listings on
American exchanges that way.  The OSC,  Canada ’s main securities regulator, this week
extended a trading ban on Sino-Forest shares to Jan. 25. The
stock has plunged 74 percent in Toronto since June 1, the day
before short seller Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC research
firm said in a report Sino-Forest overstated timber holdings in
China. Sino-Forest has denied the allegations.  Listed in Alberta  Sino-Forest listed in Canada in 1994 through the reverse
takeover of a dormant company on the Alberta Stock Exchange.
Sino-Forest, based in  Hong Kong  and Mississauga, Ontario,
eventually shifted to the Toronto exchange.  Sino-Forest has established an independent committee of
directors to examine and respond to the allegations in the Muddy
Waters report and hired PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to assist.  The OSC suspended trading in Sino-Forest on Aug. 26 and
ordered the resignation of five executives including Chief
Executive Officer  Allen Chan  before rescinding the order the
same day. Chan “voluntarily” resigned two days later, the
company said.  Wetston told reporters after a Toronto Board of Trade event
in Toronto today that the OSC’s reputation hasn’t been tarnished
by its decision to reverse its suspension of Sino-Forest
executives and that it made the right decision.  “A decision was made, an application was brought to vary
it, it was clear that the order needed to be varied and the
commission did what was the responsible thing and varied the
order,” he said.  “One way or another, a suspension or administrative leaves
or resignations occurred” for the five Sino-Forest executives,
Wetston said. “On balance I think what was achieved was what
the commission believed was necessary to ensure the cease-trade
was effective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 