-- 
Reliance Increases Fuel Exports in August, Shipping Data Show

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-09-14T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/reliance-increases-fuel-exports-in-august-shipping-data-show.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of
the world’s biggest refining complex, increased exports last
month from its plants on  India ’s west coast to at least 2.4
million metric tons of oil products, shipping data show.  Mumbai-based Reliance, India’s largest listed company,
delivered the products from its Jamnagar facility in the state
of Gujarat to destinations including the U.S.,  Europe , Brazil,
 Africa  and the Middle East, according ship transmissions and
vessel chartering tracked by Bloomberg and data from  Clarkson
Research  Services Ltd.  The company’s oil-product exports in July were at least 1.3
million tons, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Shipbrokers aren’t obliged to report charters, so the scope of
data capture can vary from month to month. All figures from
Clarkson are for single-voyage bookings and exclude long-term
charters.  Reliance exported at least 910,000 tons of gasoline in
August, with shipments headed to destinations including the
 Middle East ,  Singapore  and Europe, according to transmissions
captured by AISLive on Bloomberg and data from Clarkson
Research, a unit of the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Manoj Warrier, a spokesman for Reliance in Mumbai, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment. The company doesn’t
disclose details of its oil-product exports.  Khawr Aladid  The company hired the vessel Khawr Aladid to transport
80,000 tons of gasoline to Europe from the port of Sikka near
Jamnagar, vessel-charter data show. The ship sailed from the
Indian port in late August and was last tracked in the
Mediterranean Sea after passing through the Suez Canal,
according to transmissions captured by Bloomberg.  Reliance’s gasoil, or diesel, shipments totaled at least
630,000 tons in August, with destinations including Brazil, Sri
Lanka and Africa.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-
controlled oil company, hired the Swarna Kamal to transport
90,000 tons of the fuel to the Latin American nation, vessel-
fixture data show. The ship left Sikka in early August and was
last tracked near the coast of Brazil after sailing through the
south of Africa, transmissions show.  Reliance also shipped at least 140,000 tons of jet fuel and
220,000 tons of naphtha to destinations including Japan and
Europe, according to the data. The type of product couldn’t be
determined for 530,000 tons that left Sikka during July.  Reliance, controlled by billionaire Mukesh Ambani, runs two
refineries in Gujarat state. They can process heavy grades of
crude and have a throughput of as much as 1.24 million barrels a
day, accounting for about 1.6 percent of global refining
capacity, according to the company’s  website .  The company exports more products from its plants than
state-owned rivals including Indian Oil Corp. and Bharat
Petroleum Corp., which sell most of their fuels domestically.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  