-- 
U.S. Retail Sales Stall on Lack of Job Growth

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-14T20:09:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/retail-sales-in-u-s-unexpectedly-stagnate-as-lack-of-jobs-damps-spending.html
Retail sales in the U.S.
unexpectedly stagnated in August as a lack of employment and
limited income growth restrained demand, highlighting the risk
the economy will stall.  The unchanged reading followed a 0.3 percent gain for July
that was smaller than previously estimated, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington. Prices paid by producers
were also unchanged in August, according to the Labor
Department, while so-called core costs that exclude food and
fuel rose less than forecast.  Retailers like Best Buy Co. and  Target Corp. (TGT)  are saying a
struggling job market that has battered  consumer confidence  is
hurting sales. The dim outlook for household spending, which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, will make it
harder for the two-year old recovery to gain speed, giving the
Federal Reserve reason to take additional steps to spur growth.  “Consumers are being more cautious given all the economic
headwinds,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York . “Policy makers have to be
focused on growth because growth seems to have come close to
stalling in August.”  Signs inflation is limited may make it easier for Fed
officials to ease monetary policy further if they deem it
necessary. The  producer price index  was unchanged after a 0.2
percent increase in July, the Labor Department said. The core
measure of wholesale prices rose 0.1 percent.  Inventories Rise  Another report from the Commerce Department showed
inventories rose less than forecast in July, indicating
companies are bracing for a slowdown in demand. The 0.4 percent
increase in stockpiles matched the revised gain in June that was
larger than initially estimated. The median projection in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.5 percent advance. Sales
climbed 0.7 percent in July, the most since March.  Stocks rallied, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
higher for a third day as German and French leaders expressed
support for  Greece  to remain in the euro monetary union. The  S&P
500  rose 1.4 percent to 1,188.68 at the 4 p.m. close in New
York. Treasuries fell, pushing the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note up to 2 percent from 1.99 percent late yesterday.  The median forecast of retail sales by 83 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.2 percent rise.
Estimates ranged from a gain of 0.7 percent to a decline of 0.5
percent. The Commerce Department revised the July increase down
from a previously reported 0.5 percent advance.  Clothing Sales  Eight of 13 major categories showed gains last month, led
by grocery and sporting goods stores. Demand declined for big-
ticket items like automobiles and furniture. Sales at clothing
stores dropped 0.7 percent, the biggest drop since December.  Retail sales aren’t adjusted for inflation, indicating
demand may have dropped after taking prices into account.  Purchases at automobile dealers dropped 0.3 percent after
rising 0.2 percent in July, today’s report showed. The results
are in sync with industry figures. Cars and light trucks sold at
a 12.1 million seasonally adjusted annual rate in August, down
from a 12.5 million pace in the first half of the year and
little changed from July, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Purchases excluding autos increased 0.1 percent, today’s
report showed. They were projected to rise 0.2 percent, the
survey median showed.  The  auto industry  is trying to recover from supply
disruptions caused by  Japan ’s earthquake in March, which hurt
production, availability and sales.  Worst This Year  Excluding autos, gasoline and building materials, which are
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, sales were
unchanged, the weakest performance so far this year, after a 0.3
percent increase in July.  Spending on cars and appliances is threatened by a lack of
 job creation . Payrolls in the world’s largest economy stagnated
last month, and unemployment held at 9.1 percent, Labor
Department figures showed earlier this month.  The risk of a broader pullback in the economy has increased
pressure on the Fed, Obama administration and Congress to step
up efforts to spur the economy.  A plan from President  Barack Obama , announced before a
joint session of Congress on Sept. 8, called for an extension of
a payroll-tax break for Americans and unemployment assistance.
He also pushed for a payroll tax break for small businesses, an
increase in infrastructure spending and more aid for cash-
strapped state governments.  More Pessimism  Americans’ pessimism about the economy has deepened, with
20 percent saying the U.S. is on the right course. Some 9
percent of people say they are confident the economy won’t slide
back into recession, according to a Bloomberg National Poll.  A majority of Americans don’t believe Obama’s $447 billion
jobs proposal will help lower the  unemployment rate , the poll,
conducted Sept. 9-12 by Selzer & Co. of  Des Moines ,  Iowa ,
showed.  Best Buy, the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, yesterday cut its full-year earnings forecast. The
Richfield, Minnesota-based chain also reported a 30 percent
decline in second-quarter profit.  “The consumer is making very measured choices,” Chief
Executive Officer Brian Dunn said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “I don’t think it’s a year where someone is going to
buy a TV and a tablet and a new smartphone and go to
Disneyland.”  Sales gains at Minneapolis-based Target, the second-largest
U.S. discount retailer, are “a bit more challenging” than
expected at the beginning of the year, Douglas Scovanner, chief
financial officer, said at a Sept. 8 conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  