-- 
Retail Sales in U.S. Likely Cooled in August

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-14T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-rose-at-slower-pace-as-employment-stagnated.html
Retail sales in the U.S. probably
rose in August at the slowest pace in three months as a lack of
jobs restrained shoppers, economists said before a report today.  The 0.2 percent rise would follow a 0.5 percent increase in
July, according to the median forecast of 83 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. A separate report may show inflation at the
wholesale level cooled last month.  Chains like J.C. Penney Co. and  Target Corp. (TGT)  are among
those saying a stagnant labor market that’s battered confidence
is hurting sales. The dim outlook for household spending, which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, means it will be
harder for the two-year old economic recovery to gain speed.  “Consumers are not spending all that much,” said Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.
“People are nervous about the economic recovery and they’re
stretched for money.”  The Commerce Department’s sales figures are due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a gain of
0.7 percent to a decline of 0.5 percent.  Also at 8:30 a.m., a report from the Labor Department will
show the  producer price index  was unchanged in August after
rising 0.2 percent in July, according to the survey median. Core
prices, which exclude volatile food and fuel costs, may have
climbed 0.2 percent from the prior month and 2.6 percent from
July 2010, economists forecast.  The retail report may also show purchases excluding
automobiles rose 0.2 percent after increasing 0.5 percent in
July, economists said. The  auto industry  is trying to recover
from supply disruptions caused by  Japan ’s earthquake in March,
which hurt production, availability and sales.  Auto Sales  Cars and light trucks sold at a 12.1 million seasonally
adjusted annual rate in August, down from a 12.5 million pace in
the first half of the year and little changed from July,
according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Spending on so-called big-ticket items such as cars and
appliances is threatened by a lack of job growth. Payrolls in
the world’s largest economy stagnated last month and
unemployment held at 9.1 percent, Labor Department figures
showed earlier this month.  The risk of a broader pullback in the economy has increased
pressure on the  Federal Reserve , Obama administration and
Congress to step up efforts to spur the economy.  Obama’s Jobs Plan  A plan from President  Barack Obama , announced before a
joint session of Congress on Sept. 8, called for an extension of
a payroll-tax break for Americans and unemployment assistance.
He also pushed for a payroll tax break for small businesses, an
increase in infrastructure spending and more aid for cash-
strapped state governments.  Sales gains at Target, the second-largest U.S. discount
retailer, are “a bit more challenging” than expected at the
beginning of the year, according to executives.  “What we’re experiencing now is what we expect for quite
some time,” Douglas Scovanner, chief financial officer of
Minneapolis-based Target, said at a Sept. 8 conference. “This
is a challenging environment.”  Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney, like other retailers, is
seeing less mall traffic and more cautious consumer spending on
non-essential products, according to Chief Executive Officer
Myron Ullman.  “Everybody wishes the economy were better, the job growth,
real income growth and the things that drive the economy were
more vibrant,” he said in a Sept. 7 conference presentation.
“The upper-income customer, with more exposure to the stock
market, has been more enthusiastic about discretionary spending
and the bottom quartile customer has had to make it work with
high unemployment and gas prices and food prices.”  Retailer Shares  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has
fallen 6.9 percent since July 15, while the broader  S&P 500
Index (SPX)  declined 11 percent during the same period.  Building materials and garden supply stores may have gotten
a boost in August as many communities along the East coast
prepared for  Hurricane Irene  and made repairs in its aftermath,
according to economists including  Patrick Newport  of IHS Global
Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week cited high
unemployment, slow wage gains, falling  home prices  and still-
high debt burdens as constraints on Americans and reiterated
that price pressures were tame.  “One striking aspect of the recovery is the unusual
weakness in household spending,” Bernanke told the Economic
Club of  Minnesota  on Sept. 8. “We see little indication that
the higher rate of inflation experienced so far this year has
become ingrained in the economy.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  