-- 
RIM Poised to Miss Tablet Estimates as IPad Wins 19-1: Tech

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-09-14T20:32:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/rim-poised-to-miss-tablet-estimates-as-ipad-wins-19-1-tech.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , depending
on its new PlayBook to bolster sales as demand for its
BlackBerry phones withers, may have shipped just one of the
tablet computers last quarter for every 19 iPads from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The company, which reports earnings tomorrow, probably sold
about 490,000 PlayBooks during the first full quarter of sales,
according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts, compared with the
9.25 million iPads shipped last quarter. Analysts cut estimates
for full-year PlayBook shipments, to an average of 2.2 million,
according to the survey.  “RIM overplayed the PlayBook in terms of its sales and
prospects,” said  Charlie Wolf , an analyst at Needham & Co. in
New York. “What this really shows is that the company’s
prospects will depend on the next generation of BlackBerrys.”  When RIM first disclosed plans for a tablet last year,
analysts including Tero Kuittinen, then at MKM Partners LLC,
said the device had the potential to evolve into a significant
new product category. Yet RIM didn’t get the 7-inch tablet to
market until April, a year after the first iPad and behind
rivals such as Samsung Electronics Co. Even then, RIM drew
criticism for introducing the PlayBook without dedicated e-mail
or instant messaging and a shortage of consumer applications
like  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  movies.  The company will ship about 1.5 million tablets this year,
compared with 39.2 million for Apple and 7 million for Samsung,
said Michael Walkley, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd.  “RIM hasn’t given up on the PlayBook, but it’s clearly off
to a poor start,” said Minneapolis-based Walkley, who has a
“hold” rating on the company. That creates “huge pressure”
on the new BlackBerry phones, he said.  Revenue Decline  Last week, Walkley lowered his PlayBook forecast for fiscal
2012 to 1.5 million from 2.2 million, and  William Power , an
analyst at Robert W Baird & Co., cut his 2012 estimate to 2
million units from 2.45 million. This week, Steven Li, an
analyst at Raymond James Ltd., reduced his PlayBook forecast to
2.4 million units from 4 million.  Jamie Ernst, a spokeswoman for RIM, said the company won’t
have any comment before its quarterly earnings announcement.  The Waterloo, Ontario-based company will likely report its
first revenue decline in nine years when it releases results
tomorrow. Sales for the fiscal second quarter will probably
decline to $4.53 billion from $4.62 billion, according to a
Bloomberg survey of analysts. Profit may drop to 91 cents a
share from $1.46, according to analysts.  New Smartphones  RIM is struggling to compete in the smartphone market
against Apple and companies such as Samsung and Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system. RIM’s share of the global smartphone-software market
dropped to 12 percent in the second quarter from 19 percent a
year earlier, according to  Gartner Inc.  In the same period,
Apple climbed to 18 percent from 14 percent, and Android rose to
43 percent of the market.  After its last earnings report in June, RIM tumbled 21
percent as the company cut its profit forecast for the year. RIM
also unveiled plans to eliminate about 2,000 jobs, or a 10th of
its workforce.  RIM fell 41 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $29.72 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has dropped
49 percent this year.  The company is introducing new smartphones to gain back
ground against rivals. RIM started selling phones that run on
the BlackBerry 7 operating system in the U.S. this month and in
 Europe  last month. The company plans to shift to a new operating
system, QNX, with a lineup of phones that co-Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Lazaridis  said will come out in early 2012.  Analysts have mixed impressions of the latest phones.
Power, of Robert W Baird, said early sales of the BlackBerry 7
phones are sluggish. Ehud Gelblum, an analyst at Morgan Stanley,
said positive initial reviews may bolster sales.  QNX Prospects  Models like the new touch-screen Bold 9900 are proving
popular with corporate users and existing BlackBerry fans, while
phones without keyboards like the Torch 9850, aimed at ordinary
customers, are selling less well, said Canaccord’s Walkley.  “Consumer-centric retail store checks indicated smartphone
customers continue to overwhelmingly choose the iPhone 4 or new
Android smartphones,” he said.  The real test of RIM’s ability to compete with Apple and
Google will come when it introduces the first QNX phones, said
Gelblum. Because of how long it took RIM to get the PlayBook on
the market, he’s concerned they may be delayed.  “BB7 is just a stepping stone to QNX devices, but given
RIM’s recent track record, it is difficult to know for certain
if these devices ship on time,” said Gelblum, who is based in
 New York  and rates RIM “equal weight.”  Slow sales of RIM’s PlayBook raise the stakes for the next
generation of smartphones, said Needham’s Wolf. Now more than
ever, the company needs a hit, he said.  “If they can pull that off, then you could see a rebound
in the company’s fortunes,” he said. “If not, I fear it’s
going to be downhill from there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  