-- 
Rousseff Says Brazil Ready to Join Effort to Help Europe Ease Debt Crisis

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 
2011-09-14T21:59:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/rousseff-says-brazil-ready-to-join-effort-to-help-europe-ease-debt-crisis.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
said her country is willing to help  Europe  overcome its debt
crisis as speculation mounts that  China  and other big emerging
markets may buy euro-area bonds.  “It’s necessary to speed up any rescue,” Rousseff told
reporters today in Brasilia. “Brazil will always be willing to
participate in any international effort.”  Finance ministers from Brazil, Russia, India, China and
 South Africa , the so-called BRICS nations, plan to meet in
Washington Sept. 22 and will decide whether to assist Europe
overcome the crisis.  While Rousseff did not say how Brazil can help Europe, Sao
Paulo-based newspaper Valor Economico reported this week that
BRIC nations may use part of their international reserves to
increase purchases of German and U.K.-issued debt.  Brazil ’s central bank holds a near-record $352 billion in
reserves, though it is bound by a policy that prioritizes the
safety and liquidity of these assets over potential returns.
More than 80 percent of its reserves are invested in dollar-
denominated assets.  Rousseff said today that using Brazil’s $9 billion
sovereign wealth fund, which has greater freedom to invest its
assets than the central bank, may not be the best way to assist
European nations.  “There are other ways,” she said, adding that the burden
was on Europe and the U.S. to resolve their respective debt
challenges.  European Commission President Jose Barroso today said he is
close to proposing options on euro-area bond sales even as
 Germany  continues to oppose joint debt issuance. Russia is
“theoretically” prepared to buy common euro-area bonds, Deputy
Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said yesterday.  Even while extending Brazil’s help to Europe, Rousseff
warned the U.S. against another round of monetary stimulus that
she said is “spreading dollars throughout the world” and
“threatens” the competitiveness of companies in Latin
America’s biggest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  