-- 
Rubber Drops as Slumping Economies, European Debt Crisis May Curb Demand

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-09-14T08:39:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/rubber-futures-drop-in-tokyo-as-european-debt-crisis-seen-lowering-demand.html
Rubber declined amid speculation
that slowing growth in Asian economies and  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis may weaken demand for the commodity used in tires.  The February-delivery contract fell as much as 1.6 percent
to 359.1 yen a kilogram ($4,670 a metric ton), the lowest level
since Sept. 6, before settling at 360.5 yen on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange.  Oil retreated from a six-week high in  New York  after the
 Asian Development Bank  cut its 2011 growth forecast for the
region excluding Japan today. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao , facing
calls to widen support for indebted European countries, signaled
that developed nations should cut deficits and create jobs
rather than rely on China to bail out the world economy.  “The downward revision of growth forecast of Asian
countries raised concern that slowing economy will hurt
demand,” said Chaiwat Muenmee, analyst at Bangkok-based
commodity broker DS Futures Co. “Besides, debt issues in Europe
remain unresolved.”  The Manila-based lender cut its 2011 growth forecast to 7.5
percent from an April estimate of 7.8 percent, according to the
Asian Development Outlook 2011 Update report released today.  The euro weakened versus the yen for a fifth day on concern
 Greece ’s debt woes will raise borrowing costs for other
countries in the region. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  will urge European governments to step up their crisis-
fighting efforts when he meets finance ministers this week, a
euro-area official said.  Thailand Floods  Rubber declined 13 percent this year after reaching a
record 535.7 yen on Feb. 18 amid worries that the crisis in
Europe would hurt the global economic recovery.  “Flooding in Thailand caused some concerns over the supply
situation, while the macro economy is still uncertain,” Ker Chung Yang, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte., said by phone
from Singapore. Investors are worried that the debt crisis in
Europe may spread and lower demand, he added.  Flash floods and landslides in  Thailand  have submerged 48
of the country’s 77 provinces in the last two months, according
to the Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation, with 21
provinces still affected. About 3.68 million rai (588,800
hectares) of farm land may have been damaged, the Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives said on its website yesterday.  The cash price of Thai rubber was at 141.4 baht ($4.67) a
kilogram today, according to the Rubber Research Institute of
Thailand. In Shanghai, rubber for January delivery fell 2.2
percent to close at 32,950 yuan ($5,153) a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Aya Takada at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  