-- 
Indonesia Joined by India, South Korea in Intervening to Buoy Currencies

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-14T09:23:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/rupiah-rebounds-from-5-month-low-as-central-bank-may-cut-rates.html
Indonesia ’s central bank intervened
to curb losses in the rupiah, while traders said authorities in
India and South Korea also sold dollars, a sign  Europe ’s debt 
crisis is undermining confidence in Asian emerging markets.  Bank Indonesia “intervened in the rupiah and bond
markets,” Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said in an interview 
in Jakarta. The  Reserve Bank  of India sold the greenback as the 
rupee weakened beyond 48 per dollar for the first time since 2009, 
a Mumbai-based trader at a state-owned bank said, declining to be
identified because he isn’t authorized to speak to the media.  The Asian Development Bank cut its 2011 growth forecast for
 Asia  excluding  Japan  today to 7.5 percent from 7.8 percent on
signs a global economic recovery is faltering. Greece’s budget
deficit widened 22 percent in the first eight months of the
year, fanning speculation the country will fail to meet
conditions for further bailout funds.  “Bank Indonesia coming in to intervene is a reflection of
the kind of risk aversion in the market right now,” said  Vishnu
Varathan , an economist at Capital Economics (Asia) Pte in
Singapore. “Central banks, being central banks, will have to
react to ensure that volatility doesn’t get out of hand.”  The rupiah fell as much as 2.6 percent today to 8,939 per
dollar and was trading 2 percent lower at 8,883 as of 4:28
p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
rupee weakened 0.9 percent to 48.01, before paring its loss to
47.78. The won slid to 1,107.82, the weakest level since March, 
before closing at 1,107.70.  Reserves to Spend  Central banks intervene in currency markets by arranging
purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Indonesia has $125
billion in reserves with which to defend the rupiah,  India  has
$285 billion and South Korea $312 billion.  The rupiah is the best-performer among the 10 most-active
currencies in Asia outside of Japan since end-2008, having
gained 23 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  "Since the first quarter of 2009, it’s been on an unabated
appreciation path,’’ said Varathan. “There was never any reason
along the way for Bank Indonesia to come in.”  Bank Indonesia needed to calm the market and doesn’t want
further declines, Sarwono said. The rupiah’s loss was caused by
sentiment from the debt crisis in Europe and “technical
factors,” he said.  European Flu  The sharp weakness in the rupiah is the first clear sign
that Asian markets could catch European flu,  Sebastien Galy , a
senior foreign-exchange strategist at  Societe Generale  SA in
 London , wrote in a note to media today.  “This is what a rush to exit looks like,” Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale in  Hong
Kong , wrote in an e-mail to clients. “The market has finally
woken up to the subtle easing from  Bank Indonesia  last week.”  Perry Warjiyo, Bank Indonesia’s director of economic
research, said yesterday in Jakarta that policy makers are ready
to “mix monetary policy toward loosening” if inflation slows
and the economy expands less than expected.  The rupee has lost 6.5 percent this quarter, the worst
performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies, headed for
the biggest loss since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in September 2008. The RBI doesn’t comment on day-to-day
movements in the currency, Spokeswoman Alpana Killawala said.  “It looks like the RBI is in the market because we have
seen some nationalized banks offering dollars since the rupee
crossed 48,” said Vikas Babu, a currency trader in Mumbai at
Andhra Bank Ltd. “Since then, speculative bidding has
reduced.”  The won slumped as the finance ministry held an emergency
meeting yesterday and said it will enhance monitoring of capital
flows and markets to cope with any turbulence.  “Reports on the European debt crisis boosted the risk-
averse sentiment in the market,” said Lee Jin Ill, a Seoul-
based senior currency dealer with Hana Bank. “There was
speculation that policy makers intervened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  