-- 
Russia Unexpectedly Lowers Repurchase Rate on Ruble Liquidity Risk

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 
2011-09-14T12:15:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/russia-keeps-refinancing-rate-unchanged-unexpectedly-raises-deposit-rate.html
Russia ’s central bank unexpectedly
cut its repurchase rate and raised the rate it pays on deposits
to avert a potential ruble shortage in money markets as a slower
global economy threatens the world’s biggest energy exporter.  The overnight auction-based repo rate was lowered a
quarter-point to 5.25 percent, the first cut since last May, and
the overnight deposit rate was increased by the same amount to
3.75 percent, the Moscow-based Bank Rossii said today in a
statement, surprising all 23 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
The refinancing rate was left at 8.25 percent, as expected.  Price pressures are easing around the world as the global
economic recovery runs out of steam amid  Europe ’s debt crisis
and U.S. efforts to avert recession. Russian growth missed
analyst forecasts in the first half of the year and, with ruble
liquidity deteriorating, the central bank may be preparing for a
global decline, according to  Neil Shearing , chief emerging-
markets economist at  Capital Economics .  Today’s decision “is an attempt to wrest back control over
market interest rates, and may be a sign that policy makers are
preparing themselves for a slowdown on the global economy,”
London-based Shearing said in an e-mailed note. The narrower
spread may shift transactions away from the  interbank market ,
giving the regulator more control over liquidity, he added.  The ruble kept declines after the decision and traded near
its lowest level in more than eight months against the dollar as
 oil prices  dropped. It slipped 0.3 percent to 30.3170 against
the dollar by 2:59 p.m. in Moscow. It slid 0.4 percent against
the euro to 41.5891.  ‘Liquidity Deficit’  Today’s moves “will help contain the volatility of money-
market interest rates amid emerging risks of a ruble liquidity
deficit in the banking sector,” the central bank  said . Rates
are “appropriate” for balancing risks of quicker price growth
and an economic slowdown in “the near term,” it added.  Liquidity has tightened in recent weeks, with lenders
seeking more than five times the amount of spare budget money
provided by the  Finance Ministry  at an auction yesterday.  Money held on correspondent accounts and deposits at the
central bank, a gauge of liquidity, averaged about 880 billion
rubles ($29 billion) this month, compared with 1.2 trillion
rubles for the year so far, Bloomberg data show. Liquidity has
tightened on global market volatility, growing budget savings
and limited activity by the central bank on money markets, VTB
Capital analyst Alexei Moiseev said today by e-mail.  “We clearly welcome the central bank’s decision as we have
been quite concerned by the recent deterioration in the
liquidity conditions in Russia,” Moscow-based Moiseev wrote.  Lower Rates  Brazil  on Sept. 1 became the second country in the Group of
20 Nations after  Turkey  to lower borrowing costs in response to
the worsening global outlook.  Mexico  signaled Aug. 26 that it
may follow suit, while  Indonesia  voiced similar plans yesterday.  Russian economic growth slowed to 3.4 percent in the second
quarter from 4.1 percent in the first. Growth was 4 percent last
year after a record 7.8 percent contraction in 2009.  Output may shrink 1.4 percent next year under the  Economy
Ministry ’s worst-case scenario, which envisages a “world
recession” cutting the average price of Urals crude to $60 a
barrel, almost half the current level, according to a document
obtained by Bloomberg. The base-case forecast sees 4.1 percent
growth this year, 3.7 percent in 2012 and 4 percent in 2013,
Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said Aug. 27.  Russian inflation has slowed the most this year among the
so-called BRIC group as a good harvest eased food costs.
Inflation won’t exceed a 7 percent target for 2011, the slowest
since the Soviet Union’s 1991 collapse, First Deputy Chairman
 Alexei Ulyukayev  said this month. Consumer-price growth fell to
8 percent as of Sept. 5, according to the central bank.  “We are effectively seeing the start of a monetary easing
cycle,” Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist at Bank of America
Corp. in Moscow, said by e-mail, adding that he expects a half-
point cut in the refinancing rate by year-end. “With inflation
set to slow further in the near future, the monetary easing will
continue and intensify.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  