-- 
Samoa, Canada Open Rugby World Cup Campaigns With Wins; Scots Beat Georgia

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-14T13:44:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/samoa-scores-six-tries-to-beat-namibia-49-12-in-first-rugby-world-cup-game.html
Dan Parks scored all of  Scotland ’s
points as the team struggled to defeat  Georgia  15-6 in a Rugby
World Cup pool game. Samoa opened its campaign by beating
 Namibia  49-12 as Canada rallied to defeat Tonga 25-20.  Parks had four penalties and a drop goal in the Pool B
match in rainy Invercargill,  New Zealand . It was the first
tryless game in the tournament, and the sixth in Rugby World Cup
history. Merab Kvirikashvili scored two penalties for Georgia.  Scotland had more than half of the possession in the game,
but had 11 handling errors to Georgia’s 5 as downpours made
passing difficult.  “We could blame the conditions but actually I’m
disappointed we couldn’t hold on to the ball more,” Scotland
coach Andy Robinson said. “We were not accurate and that’s why
it became close.”  Scotland leads Pool B with 9 points, although it’s the only
team to have played two games. England has four points and
 Argentina  has one point. Georgia and  Romania  don’t have any
points.  In Pool D, Samoa’s 267-pound winger, Alesana Tuilagi,
became the first player to score a hat trick for the team at the
four-yearly championship as the  10th-ranked  Samoans outscored
Namibia by six tries to two in Rotorua.  “We’ve been waiting the whole week, we’ve been watching a
lot of rugby the last couple of days and the boys were pretty
itchy to get out there,” Samoa captain Mahonri Schwalger said
in a televised interview. “I’m pleased with the way the boys
performed but we’ve still got more room to improve.”  Pool D  Two-time quarterfinalist Samoa joined Fiji atop  Pool D ,
which includes defending champion  South Africa  and sixth-ranked
 Wales , with five points after collecting a bonus point for
scoring at least four tries. Namibia is in last place after
losing 49-25 to the Fijians in its opening match.  Canada got two tries in the last 13 minutes in Whangarei to
beat a Tonga team rated two spots above it in the International
Rugby Board’s rankings. Winger Phil Mackenzie scored the match-
winner in the 73rd-minute and James Pritchard converted to
preserve Canada’s 100 percent World Cup record against Tonga.  “I’m so proud of the boys in the way they played and the
guts they showed,” Canada captain Pat Riordan said in a
televised interview. “That was awesome.”  Russia  is the only one of the 20 teams in the tournament
not to have played at least one match. The Bears face the U.S.
in their tournament debut tomorrow.  Three Tries  Samoa’s Tuilagi got three tries at Rotorua International
Stadium after scrum-half Kahn Fotuali’i grabbed the fastest try
of the tournament on 49 seconds. After Tuilagi sprinted over for
his third in the 53rd minute, full-back  Paul Williams  sliced
through Namibia’s defense and converted his try to make it 42-0.  Namibia’s Danie van Wyk touched down to make it 42-5 before
Samoa was awarded a penalty try when Namibia illegally stopped
an attempted pushover. Williams converted to take his personal
haul to 14 points before Namibia fly-half Theuns Kotze scored
and converted a try to complete the scoring and move atop the
tournament’s  points-scoring list .  “It’s a good way to start the tournament,” Williams said
in comments distributed by tournament organizers. “This is our
moment. All hands on deck.”  Canada  Wins  Canada handed Tonga, which lost to the All Blacks in the
opening game last week, its second loss in five days after
coming back from 20-13 down with 13 minutes remaining at the
Northland Events Centre, the tournament’s most northerly venue.  No. 8 Aaron Carpenter powered over for a 67th minute try to
get the 14th-ranked Canadians within two points. Six minutes
later, Mackenzie picked the ball up off the back of a ruck and
sped through a gap to seal Canada’s third victory over Tonga in
as many World Cup meetings.  A try in each half from center Siale Piutau had helped
Tonga take a seven-point lead after Canada, which made 100
tackles in the match to 74 from  Tonga , had gone 10-0 up through
a Jebb Sinclair converted try and James Pritchard penalty.
Pritchard finished with 10 points.  “They just gutted it out so well in the second half to
come back,” Canada coach Kieran Crowley said. “We had to make
a hell of a lot of tackles and that takes it out of you.”  In Pool C, Ireland hooker Jerry Flannery is set to miss the
rest of the tournament after tearing his left calf in training.
He’ll be out for four to six weeks, the Irish Rugby Football
Union said  in a statement .  Sean Cronin will move on to the replacements bench for the
match with table-topping  Australia  in three days. Damien Varley
of Munster has been called into the squad.  Ireland beat the U.S. 22-10 in its opening game and
Australia defeated Italy 32-6. The tournament final is on Oct
23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  