-- 
Greece Is to Remain in Euro: Sarkozy, Merkel

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 
2011-09-15T06:53:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/sarkozy-merkel-convinced-greece-to-stay-in-euro-area-amid-fiscal-steps.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said they are “convinced”
Greece will stay in the euro area as they faced international
calls to step up efforts in fighting the region’s debt crisis.  The euro rose after the leaders of Europe’s two biggest
economies issued a statement yesterday following a telephone
conversation with Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou . It
erased most of those gains today. Papandreou committed to meet
deficit-reduction targets demanded as a condition for an
international bailout, according to statements from governments
in Berlin, Athens and Paris.  European governments are aiming to ratify a July 21
agreement to bolster the euro region’s bailout fund and extend a
second rescue to  Greece . Investor skittishness over the spread
of the debt crisis has raised banks’ funding costs and roiled
markets worldwide.  “I am skeptical that this will help to reassure markets,”
Tullia Bucco, an economist at UniCredit Global Research in
Milan, said of the leaders’ statement. “The road to the
implementation of the second aid package is still quite long and
may prove bumpy.”  The euro was up 0.1 percent to $1.3731 at 8:43 a.m. in
Berlin, as futures on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index added 1.2 percent.  Geithner’s Travels  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will travel to
Wroclaw,  Poland , to attend a session for the first time of the
European Union’s Economic and Financial Affairs Council that
begins tomorrow. Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao yesterday called on
other countries to “put their houses in order.”  Underscoring divisions in  Europe , European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  said he was close to proposing options on
joint euro-area bond sales, putting officials in Brussels on a
collision course with  Germany  over steps to contain the
sovereign debt crisis.  “The commission will soon present options for the
introduction of euro bonds,” Barroso told the European
Parliament yesterday in Strasbourg,  France , prompting applause
from lawmakers who have backed the idea and a swift rejection
from officials in Berlin. “Some of these options could be
implemented within the terms of the current treaty; others would
require treaty change.”  In the three-way telephone call, Papandreou committed to
enacting policies demanded by the EU and International Monetary
fund to keep the bailout funds flowing. Sarkozy and Merkel “are
convinced that the future of Greece is in the euro zone,” the
French statement said.  Greek Steps  The Greek Cabinet this month endorsed measures to help meet
deficit targets of 17.1 billion euros ($23.6 billion) in 2011
and 14.9 billion euros in 2012, covering a 2 billion-euro
shortfall for this year that has been exacerbated by a deepening
recession.  The fulfillment of Greece’s adjustment program is “more
than ever” essential and is a condition for the payment of
further aid tranches, Merkel said in the call, according to an
e-mailed statement from her chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert.  Papandreou said Sept. 10 that the government’s top priority
is “to save the country from bankruptcy” and said he would do
whatever is necessary to meet targets.  Putting austerity programs into place “is indispensable to
establish sustainable and balanced growth in Greece,” according
to the statement issued in Paris. “The success of the Greek
plan will provide stability to the euro zone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  