-- 
SAT Scores Decline as More Students Take Test

-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 
2011-09-14T16:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/sat-scores-decline-as-more-students-take-test.html
Average SAT scores for high school
seniors declined three points in reading, one point in math and
two points in writing from last year as a record number of
students took the test used for admission at most U.S. colleges.  The average reading score of 497 marked the lowest since
data became available in 1972, according to a  report  released
today by the  College Board , which administers the exam. The math
result of 514 has wavered within 1 point the past five years.
The score for writing has fallen in all but one year since being
added to the exam in 2005, and dropped to 489 this year.  The nonprofit College Board attributed declining scores to
a larger and more diverse group taking the test, especially
lower-income students and those who speak English as their
second language. Blacks and Hispanics lagged behind their white
peers, while Asian-Americans outperformed them in math and
writing. Almost 1.65 million students in the 2011 graduating
class took the test, according to the College Board.  “These groups may have less access to high-quality
education,” Kathleen Steinberg, a spokeswoman for the New York-
based  College Board , said in a phone interview. “When you
increase the pool, you have a greater variability in the
abilities of the test takers.”  Wake-Up Call  The decline in scores undercuts academic progress cited
under No Child Left Behind, the nation’s main public schools
law, said Bob Schaeffer, a spokesman for the  National Center for
Fair & Open Testing , a Boston-based nonprofit group critical of
standardized exams.  The federal law penalizes public schools if they don’t
improve on state standardized tests and aims to lift the
performance of disadvantaged students. States have reported
rising test scores, while federal exams and the SAT don’t
confirm that progress, Schaeffer said.  “How many wake-up calls do policy makers need before they
admit that their test-and-punish strategy is a failure,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  