-- 
Saudi Petrochemical Output to Grow 32% by 2015, NCB Forecasts

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-09-14T13:13:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/saudi-petrochemical-output-to-grow-32-by-2015-ncb-forecasts.html
Saudi Arabia  will produce 32
percent more petrochemicals by 2015 even amid a possible
feedstock shortage and anti-dumping cases against local
exporters, according to the country’s largest lender by assets.  Producers including  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world’s biggest petrochemicals maker, are likely to expand
output from a combined 53.2 million metric tons a year in 2009
to 70.2 million tons six years later, the National Commercial
Bank said in an e-mailed forecast. The kingdom would account for
9.2 percent of global supply in 2015, it said.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, plans to
expand petrochemicals output to diversify its economy away from
crude, which generates 86 percent of official revenue. The Saudi
industry has 62 petrochemicals projects valued at roughly 236
billion Saudi riyals ($63 billion), the Jeddah-based bank said.  The scarcity of ethane, the primary feedstock in the
country, is the “most important challenge of the sector,”
according to the report. Other risks include a shortage of
skilled workers, anti-dumping duties and a short-lived recovery
for demand in  China , it said.  Deputy Minister of Trade for Technical Affairs Mohammed al-
Kathiri said on Jan. 8 that his ministry was negotiating with
 India , China,  Turkey , and Pakistan to end anti-dumping claims
against Saudi exporters. Saudi Arabia may keep unchanged for
another year the comparatively low prices it charges local
petrochemical producers for ethane and other feedstock, a
government official with knowledge of the matter said June 15.  Demand for Saudi petrochemicals has been strong this year,
especially in China and elsewhere in  Asia . Saudi Arabia shipped
17.7 million tons of petrochemicals in the seven months ending
in July, compared with 16.8 million tons in the same period last
year, according to Saudi Ports Authority data published Sept. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Dubai at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  