-- 
HSBC Said to Seek Acquirer for Non-Life Insurance Operations

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-09-14T07:17:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/hsbc-said-to-seek-acquirer-for-non-life-insurance-operations.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank, is seeking buyers for its non-life insurance unit, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  The London-based bank is seeking preliminary bids for the
business by Oct. 13, one of the people said, asking not to be
identified because the sale process is private. The unit may be
valued at about $1.5 billion, depending on the final terms of an
exclusive insurance distribution agreement that would accompany
the sale, the person said.  European lenders will need to raise an extra 423 billion
euros ($611 billion) by 2019 to comply with global capital rules
approved by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision,
according to a European Union study. HSBC is cutting jobs and
closing offices to reduce costs by as much as $3.5 billion over
the next two years as it prepares for the stricter capital rules.  HSBC reported $1.3 billion of gross premiums for its non-
life insurance business last year, accounting for about 11
percent of total insurance premiums, according to its  annual
report . The non-life insurance operations in  Asia  brought in
about $700 million of premiums in 2010, one of the people said.  Gareth Hewett, a spokesman for HSBC in  Hong Kong , declined
to comment on the sale of the non-life insurance operations.
Reuters reported the plan on Sept. 12, citing people it didn’t
identify.  The Basel committee said in July that 28 banks would be
subject to additional  capital requirements  to rein in too-big-
to-fail lenders.  HSBC in July agreed to sell almost half its U.S. branches
to First Niagara Financial Group Inc. for about $1 billion. The
lender said last month it will reap a $2.4 billion after-tax
gain from the sale its U.S. credit card division to  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  The company has also sold part of its Russian
consumer banking unit and said it will shut 10 retail branches
in Poland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  