-- 
HSBC to Apply for Extra Quota for Yuan Bonds

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-14T00:54:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/hsbc-to-apply-for-extra-quota-for-yuan-bonds.html
HSBC Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s biggest
bank, said it will apply for an additional investment quota to
buy bonds in China as its yuan deposits in  Hong Kong  surge.  “It would be great if we can have a larger quota to invest
in the onshore market,” Justin Chan, HSBC’s deputy head of
global markets in Asia Pacific, said in an interview in  Shanghai 
last week. “If policy makers want to develop an offshore market,
they need to give offshore banks something to invest in.”  Yuan deposits in Hong Kong climbed 82 percent this year to
a record 572.2 billion yuan ($89 billion) at the end of July,
data released by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority show. The
People’s Bank of  China  has allowed 31 overseas banks or foreign
units of Chinese lenders to invest in onshore bonds, according
to the  China Foreign Exchange Trade System , a subsidiary of the
central bank. It didn’t reveal the size of their quotas.  The Bank of Thailand was approved to invest 7 billion yuan
in the  interbank market , said the Bank of Thailand deputy
governor Atchana Waiquamdee on Sept. 8. The Hong Kong Monetary
Authority received a quota of $300 million to invest in stocks
and bonds in China, Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said Jun. 24.  Overseas demand for the yuan has grown, with the currency
appreciating 6.7 percent since the central bank ended a two-year
dollar peg in June 2010, the best performance among the so-
called BRIC nations over the period. Investment in onshore bonds
is becoming more attractive as the yield on three-year
government debt climbed 53 basis points this year to 3.94
percent on Sept. 9, compared with 0.83 percent on similar-
maturity yuan bonds in Hong Kong, known as dim sum debt.  Doubled Headcount  China is allowing greater use of its currency in global
trade and investment to reduce reliance on the dollar. Vice
Premier  Li Keqiang  outlined a range of measures to boost Hong
Kong’s status as an offshore yuan center last month, including
rules allowing holdings of the currency in the city to be used
for foreign direct investment in China.  HSBC has managed 25.3 billion yuan of dim sum sales this
year, compared with 7.7 billion yuan in 2010, making it the top
underwriter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank
has doubled the number of Hong Kong-based staff overseeing the
market this year to help cope with a “strong pipeline,” Chan
said, declining to reveal employee numbers.  “That’s one of the key areas we aim to expand further,”
he said. “Probably we will have to extend the team to the
region or the rest of the world, or probably  London , when it
becomes an offshore yuan center.”  HSBC forecasts the yuan will become a convertible currency
by 2020, though there will likely still be some restrictions on
the capital account, Chan said. Central bank purchases of the
greenback to slow gains in the yuan swelled the nation’s
foreign-exchange reserves to $3.2 trillion in June.  “There are so many variables: whether domestic or
international markets can cope; whether Chinese companies will
be given enough tools to hedge moves in the  exchange rate ; and
whether the global economy is good or not,” he said.  --Judy Chen, Fion Li. Editors: Andrew Janes, Sandy Hendry  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 