-- 
SEC’s Khuzami Says Document Destruction Hasn’t Hurt Probes

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-09-15T00:57:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/sec-s-khuzami-says-document-destruction-hasn-t-harmed-probes.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said the agency’s
investigations haven’t been harmed by a policy of discarding
documents related to initial inquiries.  The SEC maintains electronic records of all so-called
Matters Under Investigation going back about 20 years, enabling
investigators to draw connections to previous conduct even if it
didn’t result in a formal investigation, Khuzami wrote in a
letter to U.S. Senator  Charles Grassley . Khuzami’s letter, dated
today, was a response to the Iowa Republican’s request that SEC
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  respond to a whistleblower’s claim that
the agency was illegally destroying documents.  In his letter, Khuzami said the SEC sets a low threshold
for opening an MUI in order to encourage enforcement staff to
cast a wide net for possible securities violations. During that
initial phase of an inquiry, investigators don’t have authority
to issue subpoenas or compel subjects of the inquiry to testify
or produce non-public documents, Khuzami wrote.  “We do not believe that current or future investigations
have been harmed,” Khuzami said, referring to a policy dating
back to 1998 that MUI files not be stored as official files of
the SEC, according to the letter.  Darcy Flynn   Grassley said last month that his request was prompted by a
letter from Darcy Flynn, a 13-year SEC employee who claimed the
agency destroyed documents including materials related to
Goldman Sachs’ trades of American International Group Inc.
credit-default swaps in 2009, insider-trading probes of Deutsche
Bank AG, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and SAC Capital Advisors
LP, and investigations of possible financial fraud at Wells
Fargo & Co. and Bank of America Corp. in 2007 and 2008.  “The SEC’s argument seems to rely on its claim that
nothing significant was destroyed,” Grassley said today in an
e-mailed statement. “But, since the documents are gone, we’ll
never know how important they might have been. How do you know
whether you might have been helped by something you no longer
have?”  While the agency didn’t retain documents such as publicly
available news articles or company filings related to closed
MUIs, it kept an electronic record of each matter, including the
source of the case, the general subject matter and a list of
staff and other parties involved, Khuzami wrote.  In light of Grassley’s questions and the ongoing
discussions with the  National Archives  and Records
Administration, the SEC recently halted the policy, requiring
all documents created or received for all enforcement matters to
be retained until the agency is certain that the policies meet
federal standards, according to the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  