-- 
Senate May Not Be Able to Vote on FAA Bill, Reid Says

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 
2011-09-14T22:43:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/senate-may-not-be-able-to-vote-on-faa-bill-this-week-reid-says.html
The Senate may not be able to vote
on a bill to keep aviation and highway programs operating before
aviation funding expires Sept. 16, as one lawmaker is blocking
the measure, Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said.  Without a vote, the  Federal Aviation Administration  would
face a second partial shutdown in two months. The House
yesterday approved FAA funding, packaged with money for highway
and transit programs, which expire Sept. 30 unless extended.  While Reid today did not identify the senator,  Tom Coburn 
took responsibility for holding up the bill. The Oklahoma
Republican said he wants language allowing states to opt out of
a “stupid” requirement to use a portion of their federal
highway grants on so-called enhancements, such as bike paths and
pedestrian walkways.  “I don’t want an amendment,” Coburn said in an interview.
“Why would we spend money on enhancements when the trust fund’s
broke and we’re broke?”  80,000 Jobs  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said failure to pass the extension
bill by the weekend would put about 80,000 people out of work,
including 4,000 FAA employees and 70,000 to 75,000 on airport
construction jobs.  “I’m convinced his issue would lose overwhelmingly,” Reid
said. “But he’s holding this legislation up.”  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said he hasn’t spoken with Coburn about his
objection to the extension bill. “We need to pass it this week
and we’ll be working on it,” he said in an interview.  The legislation would extend FAA operations through Jan. 31
and highway and transit programs through March 31.  Coburn held up Senate action on an earlier extension of
aviation funding over a desire for deeper cuts than the House
sought to a program that subsidizes air service to rural
communities. His objection combined with Democrats’ opposition
to making any cuts to the program kept Congress in July from
renewing the FAA’s revenue-raising authority.  That led to a two-week partial shutdown of the agency,
4,000 worker furloughs and a temporary halt to airport
construction projects, before the Senate agreed to pass the
House’s extension measure.  President  Barack Obama ’s job-creation proposal requires
states to devote 3 percent of any new highway funds they receive
to enhancements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laurie Asseo at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net  