-- 
Senate Panel Votes to Boost Funding for Financial Regulators

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-09-14T16:39:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/senate-democrats-move-to-boost-funding-for-financial-regulators.html
A U.S. Senate panel approved a bill
that would increase funding for financial-industry regulators as
Democrats counter Republican efforts to reduce spending for
agencies implementing the Dodd-Frank Act.  The Securities and Exchange Commission would get an
additional $222 million for fiscal 2012 and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission another $37.7 million under a $21.7
billion draft spending bill approved today by a Senate
appropriations subcommittee in a voice vote.  “My top priority is to make sure these two watchdog
agencies have the resources they need to maintain the integrity
of the markets in America,” Senator  Richard Durbin , the
Illinois Democrat who leads the Financial Services and General
Government subcommittee, said before the vote. “These agencies
occupy pivotal positions because of the Dodd-Frank bill, and the
volume of work they face is growing geometrically.”  The SEC and CFTC, which are responsible for writing most of
the new rules required by the financial-regulation overhaul
enacted last year, have been caught in a tug-of-war between
Republicans pushing to cut federal spending and Democrats aiming
to give regulators funding to complete work on the rules. The
increases in the Senate bill would represent a 19 percent boost,
to $1.4 billion, for the SEC and an 18 percent rise, to $240
million, for the CFTC.  House Cuts  The  House of Representatives  in June passed a spending bill
that would cut the CFTC’s budget by 15 percent, or $30 million
from its current spending level, and is waiting to act on a
committee-approved bill that denied President  Barack Obama ’s
request to increase the SEC’s funding.  Senator Jerry Moran of  Kansas , the top Republican on the
panel, said he had concerns with the CFTC funding levels in the
bill and would consider amendments to make changes during full
committee consideration.  “The CFTC has failed to prioritize its rulemaking
process,” Moran said today. “I believe this bill is an
opportunity for us to get the CFTC to change their methodology
in regard to those rules.”  Moran also questioned the funding structure for the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which was created in Dodd-
Frank. The senator, who has introduced a bill that would change
how the bureau is funded and how its leader are chosen, said the
spending bill could be “a vehicle” for those changes.  CFPB Funding  Under the law, the CFPB is to be funded from a percentage
of the  Federal Reserve ’s budget, as much as $500 million a year,
with the bureau’s director deciding how much is needed. The
House Republican spending bill calls for the agency to be funded
by congressional appropriations starting Oct. 1, 2012.  Even with the increases, Durbin said, the Senate bill fails
to meet the needs of the SEC and CFTC as lawmakers look to
reduce deficit spending in the federal budget.  “We’ve had to make some hard decisions in this bill a
number of which I don’t like one darn bit,” Durbin said. “We
can’t give them the resources they need because of the budget
cutbacks.”  The Senate bill, which would provide $4.3 billion less than
Obama had sought, also includes $11.6 billion for the  Internal
Revenue Service .  The IRS received $12.1 billion this year and requested
$13.3 billion for fiscal 2012 as it seeks to bolster tax
enforcement and implement parts of the health-care law passed in
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  