-- 
Serena Williams Blames Her Emotions for Rant at Umpire in U.S. Open Final

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-14T14:55:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/serena-williams-blames-her-emotions-for-rant-at-umpire-in-u-s-open-final.html
Serena Williams  said she was
overcome by her emotions during her U.S. Open women’s final
defeat, causing her to berate an umpire. She still didn’t
apologize.  “My emotions did get the best of me this past weekend when
I disagreed with the umpire,” Williams said in a Twitter post
today. “It has been a long road to get back to the U.S. Open
this year, and I am thankful to have had such a great two weeks
in  New York .”  Williams was fined $2,000 by the U.S. Tennis Association
for verbally abusing chair umpire Eva Asderaki during her Sept.
12 women’s final loss to Samantha Stosur of  Australia . The
verbal abuse began after Asderaki took a point away when
Williams shouted “Come on!” during a point after she thought
she had hit a clean winner.  Williams criticized Asderaki immediately after the point
and during a 90-second changeover later in the set, calling the
umpire “a hater and unattractive inside.” She refused to shake
the umpire’s hand after the match.  Several times during a post-match news conference Williams
was given an opportunity to apologize to the umpire, though she
ignored reporters’ questions on the issue. When asked if she
regretted her comments, Williams responded, “I am really
excited to be here, really, and to have gotten so far.”  Williams, who missed the 2010 tournament due to injury, has
battled injuries and illness for much of the past two seasons,
dropping her seeding to 28th at the tennis season’s final Grand
Slam event.  Her outburst could have led to a ban from next year’s  U.S.
Open , as she was on probation after threatening a lineswoman
following a foot fault in a loss to  Kim Clijsters  during the
semifinals in 2009.  Another major offense would have triggered the ban, though
tournament referee Brian Earley ruled that “the fine is
consistent with similar offenses at Grand Slam events,” and
that “Ms. Williams’s conduct, while verbally abusive, does not
rise to the level of a major offense under the Grand Slam Code
of Conduct.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 