-- 
SES Chief Would Consider Buying Hellas Sat Division of Greece’s OTE

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-14T16:32:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/ses-chief-would-consider-buying-hellas-sat-division-of-greece-s-ote.html
SES SA (SESG)  would be interested in
buying the Hellas Sat satellite unit of Greece’s Hellenic
Telecommunications Organizaton SA, Chief Executive Officer
Romain Bausch said in Paris today.  “OTE may consider selling Hellas Sat,” Bausch said on the
sidelines of a conference in Paris. “The decision on the sale
hasn’t been taken, but once they decide we’re interested in
looking.”  OTE, Greece’s largest phone company, needs to cut costs as
the country experiences the third year of a recession. OTE has
been losing fixed-line and mobile-phone customers, leading to a
7.6 percent drop in second-quarter sales. The company is
considering a freeze on wages as it seeks to cut payroll costs,
the Kathimerini newspaper said yesterday, without citing anyone.  OTE, based in  Athens , said Aug. 4 that it had no plans to
sell the satellite unit. Spokespeople for OTE didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment today. The company is controlled by
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  Europe ’s biggest phone company.  SES, the world’s largest publicly-traded satellite
operator, has embarked on the largest expansion in the industry.
The Luxembourg-based company, alongside rival Eutelsat
Communications SA, is launching new satellites to add capacity.  More than 200 commercial communication satellites will be
launched by 2020 as a surging number of television stations
boosts demand for broadcasting services, Euroconsult estimates.  OTE gained 1.5 percent to 3.99 euros in Athens trading
today, while SES rose 2.2 percent to 17.82 euros in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  