-- 
Sexy, Brainy Lovers in ‘Completeness’ Fool Around, Yak: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-09-14T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/sexy-brainy-lovers-in-completeness-fool-around-yak-away-jeremy-gerard.html
Elliot and Molly are so instantly
attracted to one another that they’ve barely tapped the whiskey
bottle in his apartment before garments are being lobbed over
shoulders.  When the action under the covers briefly freezes in Itamar
Moses’ funny, ridiculously smart new play, “Completeness,” at
 New York ’s  Playwrights Horizons , Elliot naturally wonders what’s
going on.  “Having sex without examining the genitals is like biting
into a piece of fruit without looking at it,” Molly says with
an offhand insouciance that merely heightens the lust vibe.  They’re graduate students -- he in computer science, she in
molecular biology -- whose respective obsessions are algorithms
and experiments involving yeast.  Both are fresh from other love affairs, Molly with her
obnoxious faculty adviser (Brian Avers), Elliot with a fellow
computer wonkette (Meredith Forlenza). He’s something of a self-
admitted cad, though she can deflect his cloddish remarks with
practiced -- perhaps too practiced -- elan.  If all the talk about thermonuclear physics and quantum
theory and horticulture turned you off to the beauties of Tom Stoppard’s “Arcadia,” you may be similarly repelled here.
Moses pads his love story with long nerdy speeches in a language
only grad students will find electrifying.  Graduate Love  But I haven’t seen another play recently that so perfectly
captured love -- hot-blooded, fearless, fickle -- at this stage
in life. Nor have I been so moved by that thing that happens
when two people find they’ve fallen more deeply than they
bargained for, and it scares the jargon out of them. Elliot and
Molly are as articulate on matters of the heart as they are on
brainier subjects.  Played by two utterly charming actors, wiry Karl Miller and
delicate Aubrey Dollar, and directed by Pam MacKinnon with
respect for letting things unfold in the most natural-seeming
way, Elliot and Molly won me over. So did Moses, even though he
indulges in a jarring bit of silliness in the second act that,
in lesser hands, might have derailed the evening. Fortunately,
it didn’t, and I was left with nothing but admiration.  Through Sept. 25 at 416 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-
279-4200;  http://www.playwrightshorizons.org 
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 