-- 
Siemens Delays Osram Lighting Unit IPO as Markets Retreat

-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 
2011-09-14T15:43:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/siemens-postpones-osram-lighting-unit-s-ipo-amid-global-slump-in-equities.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  delayed an initial
public offering of its Osram lighting unit that was planned in
the coming weeks, following a slump in global equity markets.  Siemens is “firmly holding” to the planned sale, the
Munich-based engineering company said in a release. It didn’t
specify when a new opportunity might arise, saying the timing of
a listing depends on “the stabilization of market conditions.”
Siemens had previous targeted “the fall” of 2011.  The German company had sought to separate the division as
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  narrows the portfolio to
energy, health-care equipment and infrastructure. Osram, the
world’s second-largest maker of lighting, could better capture
growth independently in an industry moving from traditional
bulbs to light-emitting diodes, Siemens has said.  “Preparations are on track and will be continued,”
Siemens said in the statement today. “The parent company
remains committed to retaining a minority stake in Osram AG as
an anchor shareholder over the long term.”  Long-Term Relationship  Osram has been part of Siemens’s product portfolio for
almost a century. The unit generated sales of 4.68 billion euros
($6.42 billion) last year and operating profit of 569 million
euros. Osram has a market value of about 3.2 billion euros,
Metzler Equity Research estimated in a Sept. 13 note.  The holdup on Osram follows the delays of other initial
public offerings amid market volatility. Evonik Industries AG, a
German specialty chemicals company, probably will push its
planned listing to the end of the year or the start of 2012,
three people familiar with the plan said last week. The listing
would have been the biggest in  Germany  in a decade.  Groupon Inc., which makes most of its revenue selling daily
deals for restaurants, hotels and other merchants, filed earlier
this year to raise $750 million in an IPO and postponed the sale
because of the volatile stock market, people familiar with the
matter said earlier this month.  “It’s not a terrible surprise,”  Ben Uglow , an analyst at
Morgan Stanley in  London , said of the delayed Osram IPO.  Siemens, Germany’s biggest company by market
capitalization, has fallen about 28 percent in value since the
beginning of the year. That puts the stock on target for its
first annual decline in three years. Germany’s benchmark  DAX
Index (DAX)  has lost about 24 percent this year.  The lighting industry has suffered from higher raw-material
costs and increased competition from companies in  Asia . Royal
Philips Electronics NV, the industry leader, on July 18 cut its
outlook for sales growth in the global lighting market to as
little as 5 percent a year until 2015 from as much as 9 percent.  Osram, run by Wolfgang Dehen, is listed as a discontinued
operation in Siemens’s accounts. The company, whose name is
derived from the materials osmium and wolfram traditionally used
in light bulbs, employs about 39,000 people globally.  Siemens hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
and  UBS AG (UBSN)  to manage the share sale of Osram.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  