-- 
Silvercorp Denies Report Questioning Sales, Ore; Says FBI Seeking Authors

-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y   a n d   J o s h u a   F i n e m a n
-- 
2011-09-14T20:25:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/silvercorp-denies-report-questioning-sales-ore-says-fbi-seeking-authors.html
Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) , the Chinese
miner accused of fraud in an anonymous letter last month,
rejected another report that questioned the quality of the
company’s ore and volume of sales to a related party.  The  report  was published yesterday by Alfredlittle.com, a
website that posts research on companies doing business in
China. Silvercorp denied the report’s findings and posted
documents today on its website that it said disprove the
allegations. The shares rose 4.2 percent in New York.  Silvercorp says a group of short sellers is targeting the
company by publishing “false, selective or ignorant statements
and rumors.” The Vancouver-based company previously denied an
Aug. 29 anonymous letter that said Silvercorp reported a profit
in calendar 2010 to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
while posting a loss to regulators in  China .  “I invite the authors of the anonymous allegations to come
out of the shadows and participate with the regulators in their
investigations,” Silvercorp Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Rui Feng said in a statement.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation , the SEC, the  British
Columbia Securities Commission  and the  Royal Canadian Mounted
Police  are trying to identify the authors of the reports,
Silvercorp said.  Simon Moore, who says he’s a managing editor at
Alfredlittle.com, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
request for comment.  Silvercorp rose 26 cents to C$6.46 as of 4:10 p.m. in
Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The shares, which have declined
49 percent this year, dropped 20 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Fineman at   jfineman@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 