-- 
SocGen Risks Becoming Takeover Target

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-09-14T10:19:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/socgen-risks-becoming-takeover-target.html
Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, the French
bank that has shed more than a quarter of its market value this
month, risks becoming the target of a takeover by a foreign
bank, a French lawmaker said.  “We’re headed for a takeover attempt on Societe Generale
by a foreign bank at a good price,” Jean-Pierre Balligand, a
Socialist lawmaker who sits on the finance committee of the
National Assembly, said in an interview. “It would be taking
advantage of the euro crisis and that’s not good for France.”  The remarks underline French political anxiety about the
independence of the nation’s major lenders in the face of a
sovereign debt crisis that has crimped their ability to raise
funds. Shares of major French banks have dropped this year on
concerns about their holdings of sovereign debt in Greece,
Portugal, Ireland, Italy and Spain and the growing reluctance of
money-market funds to lend to them.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Societe Generale’s debt and
deposit ratings by one level today to Aa3 from Aa2 with a
negative outlook and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s long-term ratings to
Aa2 from Aa1.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA’s Aa2 long-term rating was kept on
review for a possible cut.  Before today, BNP Paribas had slid 41 percent in Paris
trading this year,  Credit Agricole  had fallen 46 percent and
Societe Generale had dropped 55 percent on escalating concern
that the European sovereign debt crisis is turning into a
banking crisis. Societe Generale has fallen more than 27 percent
just this month.  ‘Not a Solution’  The market value of Societe Generale, France’s third-
largest bank by assets, is now about 13.4 billion euros ($18.3
billion). In contrast, New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co. is
valued at $126.7 billion.  Societe Generale Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea 
dismissed speculation of a merger or takeover, pointing out that
most lenders’ shares have tumbled and that a “big” banking
merger wouldn’t help solve the euro-region crisis.  “I don’t think a big merger is the solution to this crisis
of confidence,” Oudea said in an interview yesterday with
Bloomberg Television in  New York .  Societe Generale spokeswoman Helene Mazier declined to
comment on remarks made by lawmaker Balligand, saying the bank
doesn’t comment on speculation.  Societe Generale was the subject of takeover speculation in
2008 when it said it lost 4.9 billion euros because of
unauthorized transactions by trader  Jerome Kerviel . French Prime
Minister  Francois Fillon  said then that “Societe Generale is a
great French bank and will remain a great French bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  