-- 
SocGen Says It’s Underweight in Commodities Which Are Now in ‘Danger Zone’

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-09-14T20:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/socgen-says-it-s-underweight-in-commodities-which-are-now-in-danger-zone-.html
Societe Generale SA’s global asset
allocation team went “underweight” on commodities, saying the
asset class is in the “danger zone.”  The team recommends that investors position for higher gold
prices and lower oil prices, one of seven key calls made in the
report distributed today by the Paris-based bank. The precious
metal should benefit from  risk aversion , central-bank purchases
and negative real  interest rates , the team wrote. Crude and
copper may decline as economic growth slows and the dollar gains
against the euro.  “Prices of cyclically sensitive commodity prices, such as
crude oil and copper, have held up well over recent weeks
despite the recent deceleration in economic activity,” Societe
General strategists  Alain Bokobza , Roland Kaloyan, Arthur Van Slooten and Philippe Ferreira wrote in the report. “This should
contribute to a meaningful drop in the prices of these
commodities.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities is down
14 percent since reaching a two-year high on April 11 amid
mounting concern that demand for fuel, metals and food will slow
as the European debt crisis deepens, U.S. employment stagnates
and Chinese demand slows. This week, the dollar climbed to the
highest since February against a basket of six major currencies,
including the euro.  Investor skittishness over the spread of  Europe ’s debt
crisis has raised banks’ funding costs and roiled markets
worldwide. European governments are aiming to ratify a July 21
agreement to bolster the euro bailout fund and extend a second
rescue to  Greece . Moody’s Investors Service cut long-term credit
ratings today for SocGen and Credit Agricole SA by one level,
citing risks posed by the banks’ investments in Greece.  Speculator Holdings  Speculators are holding their biggest wager on higher
commodity prices in almost three months, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show, anticipating shortages of
everything from corn to copper. The GSCI’s 3.7 percent gain this
year compares with a 9.9 percent decline in the MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities.  Still, investors placed 29 percent less cash in commodity
exchange-traded products in the first seven months of the year,
Barclays Capital analyst Roxanna Mohammadian-Molina said today
in a report. Commodity-based ETP inflows totaled about $7.8
billion, down from $11 billion a year earlier.  Oil Outlook  Oil prices  may average $73.30 a barrel in the fourth
quarter this year and the first quarter of 2012, before
rebounding to $78.30 in the second quarter next year, the SocGen
strategists wrote. Today, the commodity dropped 1.4 percent to
$88.91 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , after a U.S. Energy
Department report showed declining fuel use.  The dollar is likely to appreciate further against the
euro, which “supports our view that commodities and especially
energy prices may fall,” SocGen said.  Copper may average $8,710 a metric ton on the London Metal
Exchange in 2012, the bank wrote. So far this year, prices have
averaged $9,360.31. Copper settled at $8,630 today, down 1.6
percent from yesterday and 15 percent below a high of $10,190 in
February.  Gold prices  next year may average $2,275 an ounce, SocGen
said. That’s 18 percent above a record $1,923.70 set on Sept. 6.
Gold settled at $1,826.50 today in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  