-- 
Solutia Falls After Cutting Profit Forecast on Demand

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-09-14T20:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/solutia-falls-after-cutting-profit-forecast-on-demand-1-.html
Solutia Inc. (SOA) , the world’s biggest
maker of thermal window-films, fell as much as 11 percent in New
York trading after reducing its full-year earnings forecast
because of lower-than-expected demand.  Adjusted earnings will be $1.95 to $2.05 a share, down from
an Aug. 9 forecast of $2.10 to $2.25, St. Louis-based Solutia
said in a statement today.  Sales in the second half haven’t improved from the first
half, Chief Executive Officer Jeffry Quinn said in the
statement. Growth in demand from the truck and bus, solar and
electronic markets is slower than expected, Solutia said. Raw-
material costs also affected the forecast, the company said.  “We have not seen an improved volume pattern develop, and
the self-fulfilling nature of lower economic expectations
associated with continued volatility in financial markets over
the past month has impacted the company’s outlook,” Quinn said.  Solutia fell 54 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $15.54 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading after earlier
touching $14.25. The shares have dropped 33 percent this year.  Chinese demand for rubber additives used in truck and bus
tires fell during the third quarter as customers used up
inventories, Quinn said today on a webcast from a KeyBanc
Capital Markets conference. Demand stabilized in September, he
said.  Lower Demand  Customer destocking also cut demand for films used in
electronic readers, he said. Lower demand for solar panels in
 Europe  has reduced prices the company gets for its encapsulation
materials, he said.  The annual contracts used to sell Safelex window films have
limited the company’s ability to recoup higher costs, which
Quinn said he is trying to change.  The forecast implies third-quarter earnings of 40 cents to
45 cents a share and fourth-quarter profit of 48 cents to 54
cents, Laurence Alexander, a New York-based analyst at Jefferies
& Co., said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  