-- 
Soros’s Adecoagro Drops Argentine Dam Project After Environmental Dispute

-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 
2011-09-14T18:47:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/soros-s-adecoagro-drops-argentine-dam-project-after-environmental-dispute.html
Adecoagro SA, the South American
farm venture backed by billionaire  George Soros , pulled out of a
project to build a dam and grow rice in  Argentina  after the
government said the development may harm the environment.  Adecoagro, whose headquarters are outside  Buenos Aires ,
opted out of the project known as Ayui Grande in northeastern
Argentina because it doesn’t want to participate in a
controversial development, a company official, who can’t be
named under corporate policy, said in a phone interview today.  The project would cause “serious and irreversible” damage
to the Uruguay River and affect water quality, Argentina’s
Environment Secretariat  said  in an Aug. 25 statement published
in the official gazette. The government also said the project in
Corrientes province is incompatible with a bi-national treaty
signed with Uruguay and international environmental laws.  Adecoagro owned a 20 percent stake in Ayui Grande through
its subsidiary Pilaga SA, according to a June 29 U.S. regulatory
filing. The project has five partners, including operator COPRA
SA. Pilaga didn’t have restrictions for leaving the project, the
filing said. All project decisions required approval by Pilaga
and Copra, it said.  Soros is the biggest stakeholder in Adecoagro, with a 22.8
percent stake. The company, which held a $424 million initial
public offering in  New York  in January, produces sugar, coffee,
soybeans, corn, rice and milk on farms in  Brazil , Argentina and
Uruguay.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Price in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  