-- 
South Africa Futures Trading Falls to Four-Year Low With On-Screen Market

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-09-15T11:07:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/south-africa-futures-trading-falls-to-4-year-low-with-on-screen-market.html
South African trading in single-
stock futures fell to its lowest level in at least four years
after the  Johannesburg Stock Exchange  forced brokers and banks
to move to electronic platforms, cutting the profit they make
from buying and selling contracts.  Trading has dropped 19 percent in the first eight months of
this year from a year earlier to 35 million contracts, the
fewest since at least 2007 when data on the  JSE Ltd.’s website 
began. The value of trades totaled 141 billion rand ($19
billion) through the end of August, down from 174 billion rand
in the same period last year and more than the 137 billion rand
in 2009, the data show.  The switch in December cut fees by 75 to 80 percent for
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, a unit of  South Africa ’s
fourth-largest bank, said Eugene van Rensburg, head of prime
services.  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Australia ’s largest investment
bank, exited the on-screen market in July because of falling
fees and reduced trading, said Graham Crawford, chief operating
officer at its Derivatives and DeltaOne unit in  Cape Town .  “It’s unsustainable at current volumes,” said Van
Rensburg, who sits on the JSE’s derivatives advisory committee.  The JSE is following bourses from  Brazil  to  India  in
turning to cheaper and more transparent trading to help lure
investors after it slipped to fourth place from the top three
years ago for the number of contracts traded in the  World
Federation of Exchanges .  Europe ’s oldest options exchange,
Euronext Amsterdam, moved to electronic trading in 2002 while
 NYSE Euronext (NYX)  runs a combination of electronic and floor trades.  ‘Purely Price Taker’  “If you look at the prices between bid and offer, there is
not a lot left for the market makers and execution providers,”
said Macquarie’s Crawford. “We are making prices off screen,
but will not pursue products where we view our role as purely a
price taker.”  The JSE operates  Africa ’s largest stock and bond markets.
Equity derivatives accounted for 9 percent of the exchange’s
1.26 billion rand of revenue last year. The JSE said it also
plans to introduce electronic trading for  stock options .  Some market participants resisted the move to on-screen
trading because of the cut in fees and the need to increase
investment in computer systems, said Allan Thomson, the head of
derivatives at the JSE.  “We had a big reduction in the single- stock futures 
market,” said Thomson. “In the long term, we’re not
particularly worried.”  Financial Crisis  The fall in trading volumes also followed the financial
market crisis in 2008 and a significant drop in smaller, riskier
shares, Thomson said. Trade in larger shares has helped support
the value of contracts traded.  The exchange is talking to international bourses to help
boost foreign participation in the JSE’s single-stock futures by
giving them direct  market access , said Magnus de Wet, manager of
the JSE’s derivatives specialist trading division who is leading
the project. The JSE has licensing agreements in place with  CME
Group Inc. (CME) , the Chicago-based derivatives exchange, for trade in
commodity derivatives, financial contracts whose value is based
on underlying assets including metals and corn.  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , operator of Brazil’s stock, futures and
commodities exchanges, in September 2008 agreed to trade
products through CME’s electronic platform.  Markets Eliminated  In India, the start of electronic trading in 1994 virtually
eliminated the traditional market makers, who bought and sold
stocks when no one else would. The  Securities and Exchange Board
of India  says bourses will be allowed to offer reduced fees,
cash payments or shares in the exchanges to brokers who take on
the role of market making. The National Stock Exchange of India
Ltd. has more than 90 percent of the country’s futures and
options market.  Some South African brokers have shifted to so-called
contracts for difference, over-the-counter products that allow
investors to bet on securities without owning them, said John
Vorster, head of online initiatives at Johannesburg-based PSG
Online, a unit of investment holding company  PSG Group Ltd. (PSG)   “Liquidity is a problem” for single-stock futures
trading, said Vorster. “Our clients are retail clients and they
depend on liquidity.”  Trading may improve as investors become more comfortable
with the new platform, he said. PSG Online trades CFDs and
single-stock futures, he said.  Losing Liquidity  “There’s no doubt we have lost some liquidity to CFDs,”
said the JSE’s Thomson. The drop-off was evident at the
beginning of the year when the JSE’s single-stock futures
central order book slipped to about 50,000 orders a day. They
subsequently rose to a peak of about 4 million a day when
futures contracts were closed in June, he said.  “You need to have a market in which you can actually see
the market and are able to trade at the press of a button;
that’s a massive positive development,”  David Shapiro , a
director at Sasfin Securities Ltd., said by phone from
Johannesburg. “I don’t think people who deal in the CFD market
fully understand the risks. It is an unregulated market.”  The move to the electronic platform has eroded the
relationship between counterparties, such as brokers and hedge
funds and the large banks that provide liquidity, said Richard Swain, head of listed products at the equity derivatives unit of
Investec Securities in Johannesburg.  Over-the-counter trading guaranteed “efficient and
competitive pricing because you had that relationship in
place,” he said. The brokerage boosted CFD trades this year.  “This regulation has put us right back to square one from
a liquidity provider’s perspective,” Swain said. “It takes a
lot of time to wean people off their relationship and to go on
screen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  