-- 
South Africa’s Malema Says ANC Youth League to Appeal Hate Speech Ruling

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-09-14T14:27:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/south-africa-s-malema-says-anc-youth-league-to-appeal-hate-speech-ruling.html
Julius Malema , the leader of the
youth wing of South Africa’s ruling  African National Congress ,
will appeal a decision by the  High Court  in Johannesburg
declaring an anti-apartheid song containing the words “shoot
the farmer” to be hate speech.  Malema will appeal to the  Supreme Court  and the
Constitutional Court against the Sept. 12 ruling, he told
reporters in Johannesburg today. He said the league will also
ask parliament to enact laws to protect the country’s history.  The song was “banned under apartheid and now it’s still
banned under democracy,” Malema said, adding that the ruling by
judge Colin Lamont was a way of “bringing apartheid back in
through the back door.” “Boer” is the Afrikaans word for
farmer.  “The courts still haven’t been completely transformed by
democracy,” the youth leader said. “They need to know that
 South Africa ’s Equality Act is there to protect all citizens and
the judgment banning the song undermines the struggle for
equality in South Africa.”  Malema is already facing disciplinary action within the ANC
for bringing the party into disrepute by calling for the removal
of the government of neighboring Botswana headed by Ian Khama,
whom he called a “puppet of the West” in July.  Gwede Mantashe, the secretary-general of the ANC who
testified in support of the song, said in an interview today
that the party has no intention of carrying out a “war on
whites.” He declined to comment on the disciplinary proceedings
against Malema.  The ANC won’t stop people from singing “Shoot the Boer”
because it has no control over what people do, Malema said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net . 