-- 
Borrowings by Spanish Banks From ECB Surged to $96 Billion in August

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-09-14T11:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/spain-banks-ecb-borrowings-surge-to-96-billion-in-august-1-.html
Spanish banks increased their
borrowings from the  European Central Bank  in August, a month in
which the ECB began buying bonds from  Spain  and  Italy  to curb
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Net ECB borrowings surged to 69.9 billion euros ($95.5
billion), an 11-month-high, from 52.05 billion euros in July,
the Bank of Spain said on its  website  today.  Divisions among European governments over how to tackle the
region’s debt crisis have helped drive up borrowing costs for
banks from countries including Spain and Italy, narrowing their
access to the wholesale debt markets they need to fund their
business. Investors monitor bank use of ECB borrowings to gauge
pressure on their ability to tap financing from other sources.  “It just shows that liquidity has become more complicated
at a time when the banks can’t issue debt,” said Juan Pablo
Lopez, an analyst at Banco Espirito Santo SA in  Madrid .  The jump in ECB borrowings by Spanish banks follows a surge
in their use by their Italian counterparts, which tapped 85.1
billion euros in funds in August, more than twice the amount
they were using in June.  The Bank of Spain also said today that average one-day
deposits by Spanish banks at the ECB climbed to 11.3 billion
euros from 5.2 billion euros in July. The August number, the
highest since the 18.2 billion euros deposited in May last year,
may be a sign that banks are more cautious about lending money
to other financial firms and prefer to park it at the ECB, said
Lopez.  Spanish banks’ use of ECB funds amounts to about 2 percent
of banking assets, about the same ratio as Italian lenders. The
proportion is about 8 percent for banks in  Portugal  and 21
percent for Greek banks.  The gap between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs
narrowed four basis points to 355 basis points today, according
to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  