-- 
Stockpiles at U.S. Companies Climbed Less Than Forecast in July

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-14T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/stockpiles-at-u-s-companies-climbed-less-than-forecast-in-july.html
Inventories in the U.S. rose less
than forecast in July, indicating companies are bracing for a
slowdown in demand.  The 0.4 percent increase in stockpiles matched the revised
gain in June that was larger than initially estimated, the
Commerce Department said today in Washington. The median
projection in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.5 percent
advance. Sales climbed 0.7 percent in July, the most since March.  Businesses are keeping stockpiles in line as they gauge
whether spending and the economy cool further. Smaller
inventories mean companies have fewer products to work through
when demand slumps, which may limit the depth of an economic
slowdown.  “Companies are doing a pretty good job of managing their
inventory levels at this stage because the change in inventories
isn’t really swinging around,” Tom porcelli, chief U.S.
economist at RBC Capital Markets Corp. in  New York , said before
the report.  Estimates for stockpiles ranged from little changed to
increases of 1 percent in the Bloomberg News survey of 49
economists. June stockpiles were revised from a previously
reported 0.3 percent advance.  Other reports today showed retails sales and producer prices
stagnated in August, signaling a slowdown in growth is helping
cool inflation.  Sales Stagnate  The unchanged reading for purchases last month followed a
0.3 percent July gain that was smaller than previously estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed. The median forecast of 83
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was a 0.2 percent rise.  Wholesale prices were also little changed as costs decreased
for energy and automobiles, according to a Labor Department
report. The so-called core measure, which excludes volatile food
and energy, rose 0.1 percent, less than forecast.  Retailers’ inventories, the only part of today’s stockpile
report not previously released, were little changed in July as
sales increased 0.3 percent.  Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent of
total stockpiles, grew 0.5 percent in July, the Commerce
Department said Aug. 31. Another 30 percent of inventories, held
by wholesalers, grew 0.8 percent during the month, figures showed
Sept. 9.  At the current sales pace, businesses had enough goods on
hand to last 1.27 months in July, down from 1.28 in June and the
fewest in three months, according to today’s figures.  Spending Slowdown  Consumer spending , the largest part of the economy, has
slowed in the past two quarters, which may keep companies from
placing new orders that would lift inventories in coming months.
Purchases among households dropped from a 3.6-percent increase in
the final three months of 2010 to a 0.4 percent gain in this
year’s second quarter.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest maker of analog chips,
said third-quarter sales may fall short of earlier forecasts as
bookings for electronics components slump, leading the company to
accumulate inventory as it slows output.  “Macroeconomic weakness is resulting in broadly lower
demand from both consumers and enterprises,”  Ron Slaymaker , vice
president of the Dallas-based company, said in a Sept. 8 call
with analysts.  “We had planned operationally for a stronger demand
environment than what is evident to us today,” he said. “We had
already reduced production starts even coming out of second
quarter, although there’ll be some lag time before that action
would impact the inventory level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  