-- 
U.K. Stocks Advance for a Second Day as Next, Kingfisher Shares Increase

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-09-14T15:58:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/stocks-advance-rebounding-from-earlier-losses-in-opening-trade-in-london.html
U.K. stocks rose for a second day
as  Next Plc (NXT)  reported a jump in first-half earnings and investors
speculated that the slump in shares during the past two months
isn’t commensurate with the outlook for companies’ earnings.  Next posted its steepest advance in a year after the U.K.’s
second-largest clothing retailer increased its annual profit
forecast.  Kingfisher Plc (KGF)  climbed 2.4 percent.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rose 52.77, or 1 percent, to
5,227.02 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge last month
slumped 7.2 percent, dragging equities to their cheapest
valuation compared with estimated earnings since March 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The FTSE All-Share
Index also gained 1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
advanced 1.9 percent.  “Valuations for European equities are very cheap relative
to other asset classes and very attractive for longer-term
investors,” said Nigel Bolton, the head of European equities at
BlackRock Inc. in London.  European stocks rose for a second day as investors
speculated that China may still buy the region’s government
bonds even as concern increases that Greece may default.
France’s  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and Societe Generale SA today had
their credit ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service, which now
plans to examine the impact of tighter financing markets on
French lenders.  Greece’s Debt Crisis  “A Greek default is not going to ripple the same way and
in the same magnitude that we saw in 2008,” Paul Chew, head of
investments at Brown Advisory in Baltimore, said in an interview
in London. “We got into the current situation in a much better
state than in 2007. That makes us confident than any crisis in
Greece is not going to snowball.”  Next climbed 6.3 percent to 2,483 pence. The shares closed
at their highest price since 1988 after Chief Executive Officer
Simon Wolfson said consumer spending may start to improve in the
second quarter of 2012.  Kingfisher advanced 2.4 percent to 239.6 pence.  Burberry
Group Plc (BRBY)  rose 5.6 percent to 1,367 pence.  Asos Plc (ASC)  jumped 3.7 percent to 1,725 after HSBC Holdings
Plc upgraded its recommendation on the shares to “overweight”
from “neutral.”  Entertainment One Ltd. (ETO)  surged 19 percent to 194.5 pence
after saying it will consider “strategic options,” which may
include a sale of the company, in response to interest it has
received. The company has hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Credit
Suisse Group AG to advise it, it said.  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) , Europe’s second-biggest tobacco
company, dropped 2 percent to 2,012 pence, for the largest
decline on the FTSE 100. Bank of America Corp. analysts wrote in
a report that fourth-quarter earnings, due on Sept. 21, may
disappoint as markets are “soft.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  