-- 
Supermax Shares ‘Good Bargain’ After Slide, Chairman Thai Says

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-09-14T05:30:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/supermax-shares-good-bargain-after-slide-chairman-thai-says.html
Stanley Thai, executive chairman of
Supermax Corp., the world’s second-largest maker of rubber
gloves, comments on the company’s share price, raw material
costs, profit margins and earnings outlook. He made the remarks
in an interview in Kuala Lumpur today.  Supermax shares fell 8.1 percent to 2.37 ringgit at 12:30
p.m. midday break in Kuala Lumpur, set for a seventh consecutive
day of losses. The stock has fallen 51 percent over the past
year, compared with a 2 percent drop in the benchmark  FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index.  On Supermax’s falling share price:  “We have a high percentage of institutional shareholdings.
Foreign funds are investing in the rubber-gloves industry. When
they exit or take profit, our counter gets hit. This is a good
time where there is good bargain for people who understand our
industry.”  On raw material costs:  “The volatility of the raw material prices will actually
affect our margin. As far as the demand and consumption is
concerned, we are still enjoying quite good demand. We are still
able to have a compounded annual growth rate of over 20
percent.”  On global rubber supply:  “Supply should increase because of new acreage of
plantations coming up in  Cambodia  and southern  Vietnam . When it
happens, all the new capacity will go to  China  because it will
be a big consumer for material. Once the new supply comes in,
we’re going to see natural rubber prices come down.”  On the ringgit’s strength:  “So long as the ringgit appreciation is in tandem with
regional currencies, we should be able to compete globally. We
are in a recession-proof industry. We are pretty much
resilient.”  On European and U.S. glove-market outlook:  “We can grow at least 50 percent in terms of earnings and
revenue in European market, and at least 25 percent growth in
our American market. We see tremendous growth potential in
emerging economies.”  “We’re looking at new emerging economies such as the BRICs
nations and  South Africa .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  