-- 
Swan Restricting Australian Central Bank in Setting Salaries With Autonomy

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-09-15T03:58:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/swan-restricts-central-bank-in-setting-salaries-with-autonomy.html
Australia’s central bank, which
pays its governor more than Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and European Central Bank PresidentJean-Claude Trichet
combined, will for the first time lose its sole power to set
compensation for its board and executives, Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
said.  The salaries at the  Reserve Bank of Australia  will be fixed
within benchmarks that exist in the Remuneration Tribunal, a
body that decides how much politicians and civil servants earn,
Swan said. The independent authority determines, reports on or
provides advice about pay, including allowances and entitlements
for federal lawmakers, judicial and non-judicial offices of
federal courts and tribunals.  “I’ve put in place a set of arrangements that mean that
future decisions taken about those salaries will be in the
context of other salaries paid to comparable people in the
public sector,” Swan, 57, said in an interview in Canberra
yesterday. “I have taken that action so that when the board
takes its decision, it takes its decision within a framework set
by government.”  The move is a culmination of months of debate over central
bank salaries, with lawmakers including  Bob Katter  of northern
Queensland state saying RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens ’s pay
increase during the global financial crisis was “outrageous.”
Swan wasn’t told until almost a year after the central bank
chief got a A$234,000 ($239,000) raise in October 2008.  Pay Levels  The RBA chief’s 2010 total compensation was A$1.05 million,
with an A$805,000 base salary. Trichet was paid 367,863 euros
($504,900) last year, 2 percent more than his 2009 salary,
according to the ECB’s annual accounts published in March.
Bernanke earned $199,700.  Stevens, 53, has been governor since September 2006, and
his term ends in September 2013. The RBA’s board has had 
oversight of the governor’s and deputy governor’s pay since
the central bank was founded in 1960.  Under the previous practice, the top two RBA officers’ pay
was referred to a compensation committee formed of three of the
bank’s board members drawn from outside the central bank. Pay
was set taking account of “market levels,” according to the bank.  The practice worked “very well,” Jillian Broadbent, an
RBA board member who sits on the bank’s remuneration committee,
said in correspondence with Swan in September last year.  Roger Corbett, an RBA board member who is also chairman of
Fairfax Media Ltd. and heads the RBA’s compensation committee,
declined to comment on the government’s move.  Comparative Pay  “It makes sense to bring the arrangements for setting the
RBA governor’s remuneration in line with other public officials
for consistency,” said Stephen Kirchner, a research fellow at
the Centre for Independent Studies in Sydney. The remuneration
tribunal “will need to take account of the fact that the level
of remuneration for the  Reserve Bank  governor isn’t going to be
necessarily the same as for other public officials,” he said.  Former central bank chief Bernie Fraser said in May the
burden carried by the governor justifies the salary.  “I do not set my own pay,” Stevens said last month at a
parliamentary committee hearing. “The board set it.”  Swan in September last year urged the RBA compensation
committee to “discharge its powers with an emphasis on ensuring
that salaries are adjusted to be in line with community
expectations of senior officials’ remuneration,” according to
correspondence between the central bank and the Treasurer’s
office obtained under the Freedom of Information Act request
earlier this year.  Transparency Gap  Stevens oversees a bank that’s less transparent than
 Poland ’s in setting policy. The governor, who this month kept
the RBA’s benchmark interest rate at a developed-world high of
4.75 percent, makes the call on adjusting borrowing costs
without a publicly revealed vote of the board -- an anomaly
relative to the standard followed by peers in nations from the
U.S. to Japan to Poland.  Swan said he wouldn’t ask the RBA to reveal a vote on
borrowing costs.  “I don’t wish to buy into an argument about whether they
should publish their votes or not,” he said. “My personal view
is that I don’t see that it adds to anything.”  Stevens has held borrowing costs unchanged after seven
increases from October 2009 to December last year.  Economic Growth  Australia , the only major developed nation to avoid a
recession during the 2008-2009 global slump, has relied on
 China ’s demand for  iron ore  and coal to propel its expansion.
Gross domestic product rose 1.2 percent in the second quarter
from the previous three months, the most in four years, a
government report showed last week.  Swan, who took office in December 2007, said that  Asia  will
continue to lead global growth, and played down concern that
 China’s economy  will falter. Fund managers  James Chanos  and  Marc Faber , Citigroup Inc. economists Willem Buiter and Shen Minggao,
and Harvard University professor Kenneth Rogoff are among those
who have warned of a crash in China stemming from a debt and
property bubble.  “I’m not in the camp that says, and you read this
frequently, that China is falling over,” Swan said, referring
to some observers as “professional pessimists on China.” He
added that “I’m not unrealistic about it either.”  ADB Outlook  The Asian Development Bank yesterday forecast that China’s
GDP will rise 9.3 percent this year, compared with an April
estimate of 9.6 percent, after 10.4 percent growth last year.
Asia excluding  Japan  will see an expansion of 7.5 percent, the
Manila-based development lender said.  “An increasing proportion of global growth is going to
come from the region,” Swan said. “This region is the hope of
the world when it comes to global growth.”  At the same time, Swan said that he “would never want to
see our economy become too excessively dependent upon one
country or one commodity.”  The Australian dollar’s appreciation, and the fact that the
nation has the highest benchmark rate in the developed world,
are a consequence of the performance of the country’s economy,
the Treasurer said.  “ Interest rates , as in the dollar, tend to be a reflection
of our domestic economic strength, but we are committed to an
independent Reserve Bank which takes those decisions
independently,” Swan said.  Dollar’s Gain  Swan said he wouldn’t impose a cap on the currency’s
exchange rate, such as  Switzerland  executed last week for the
franc against the euro. Australia’s dollar has advanced about 19
percent versus its U.S. counterpart in the past two years, and
reached $1.1081 on July 27, the highest level since it was
freely floated in 1983.  “Not at all; we’re committed to market-based exchange
rates,” Swan said when asked whether he’d consider a Swiss-type
measure.  Swan, who is also deputy prime minister, played down the
importance of the government’s slump in public approval. The
government will be rewarded by carrying out tough reforms like
the carbon tax which had helped make the ruling coalition
unpopular, Swan said. Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s personal
popularity has fallen to its lowest level yet in Newspoll and
Nielsen surveys published in the past two weeks.  “I wouldn’t be making any call on what’s going on in
politics based on a couple of opinion polls right now,” Swan
said. “What really counts is policies you put in place, the way
in which you go out and market them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Winkler  at   mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  