-- 
Sweden Is Ready to Tackle Crisis Fallout, Reinfeldt Says

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-09-14T14:08:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/sweden-is-ready-to-tackle-crisis-fallout-reinfeldt-says.html
Sweden  is ready to deal with any
contagion from a deepening European debt and banking crisis,
Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said.  “There will be facilities in place to support banks that
may have problems,” Reinfeldt said in an interview today in
Stockholm. That’s why the government is ensuring the budget
steers clear of a deficit, because recovery risks may require a
second stimulus package later, he said.  The government last month scrapped a plan to cut income
taxes as it seeks to safeguard public finances. Finance Minister
Anders Borg on Aug. 26 slashed the 2012 forecast for growth in
the largest Nordic economy to 1.3 percent from 3.8 percent
previously, as a global market rout thwarts recovery prospects.
The budget will reach a 0.1 percent surplus this year and be in
balance in 2012, the government estimates.  Sweden, which suffered through a banking crisis in the
early 1990s and then again in 2008 and 2009, chose to inject
capital into struggling banks only in return for equity to avoid
raising deficits and burdening taxpayers. The government in 2008
set up a financial stability fund by charging banks an annual
fee and enacted various crisis-management measures including a
bank guarantee program to help support lending.  The fund will grow to 2.5 percent of gross domestic
product by 2023, as a buffer against  bank failures , and stood at
36 billion kronor ($5.2 billion), including shares in  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA) , at the end of June, according to the  Swedish National
Debt Office . The guarantee program, which ended on June 30 with
a volume of 136 billion kroner in guarantees, at its peak backed
354 billion kroner in loans.  No Difficulties  While Swedish lenders aren’t having difficulties tapping
funding, a deepening debt crisis could change that, Financial
Markets Minister Peter Norman also said today.  The European banking system “is a big source of worry and
since the banking systems are so interconnected we’re not
immune,” Norman told reporters in Stockholm. “If the problems
in southern  Europe  worsen, it will spread north and also affect
Sweden, so it’s important to be on guard.”  Dollar Funding  The  European Central Bank  said today it will lend dollars
to two euro-area banks tomorrow, a sign they are finding it
difficult to borrow the U.S. currency. The ECB allotted $575
million in a regular seven-day liquidity-providing operation at
a fixed rate of 1.1 percent. It’s the first time since Aug. 17
that a lender requested dollars from the ECB. An ECB spokesman
declined to comment on which banks borrowed the funds.  Sweden’s Borg said last week that the government may force
the country’s banks to curb their reliance on dollar funding
through law changes as a global liquidity crisis shows signs of
reigniting.  Swedish policy makers have been pressing for the nation’s
lenders to seek longer-term funding after the financial crisis
in 2008. Following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., Sweden’s central bank provided dollar liquidity peaking at
$30 billion after the country’s banks weren’t able to borrow in
the U.S. currency to repay short-term loans.  Sweden’s biggest lenders, which include Nordea,  Swedbank
AB (SWEDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and SEB AB, passed the European
Banking Authority’s stress test on July 15 with a core Tier 1
capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, of at least 8.6
percent under an adverse scenario. The minimum requirement was 5
percent.  Sweden’s four largest banks have combined assets four times
the size of the economy.  Swedbank, Sweden’s third-largest lender by market value,
today said it would halt a buyback of shares because of
“intensified financial anxiety in Europe.” Borg last month
urged the Stockholm-based lender to scrap its repurchases to
strengthen its balance sheet.  Nordea fell 1.1 percent today as of 4:04 p.m. in Stockholm
trading, Swedbank slumped 5.3 percent, while Handelsbanken rose
1.1 percent and SEB climbed 1.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  