-- 
No Financing Problems for Swedish Banks

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-09-14T07:58:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/swedish-banks-have-no-financing-difficulties-norman-says-1-.html
Swedish banks aren’t having 
difficulties tapping funding markets though a deepening
European debt crisis could change that picture, the Nordic
nation’s Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman said.  The European banking system “is a big source of worry and
since the banking systems are so interconnected we’re not
immune,” Norman told reporters in Stockholm today. “If the
problems in southern  Europe  worsen, it will spread north and
also affect  Sweden , so it’s important to be on guard.”  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , Sweden’s third-largest lender by market value,
today said it would halt its buyback of shares because of
“intensified financial anxiety in Europe.” Finance Minister
Anders Borg last month urged the Stockholm-based lender to scrap
its repurchases to strengthen its balance sheet.  Group of Seven finance chiefs vowed on Sept. 9 to support
banks and buoy slowing economic growth as Europe’s debt crisis
roiled financial markets and threatened a global recession.  Swedish policy makers have been pressing for the nation’s
lenders to seek longer-term funding after the financial crisis
in 2008. Following the collapse of Lehman, Sweden’s central bank
provided dollar liquidity peaking at $30 billion because the
country’s banks weren’t able to borrow in the U.S. currency to
repay short-term loans.  Sweden’s biggest lenders, which also include  Nordea Bank
AB (NDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and SEB AB, all passed the European
Banking Authority’s stress test on July 15 with a core Tier 1
capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, of at least 8.6
percent under an adverse scenario. The minimum requirement was 5
percent.  Sweden’s four largest banks have combined assets four times
the size of the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  