-- 
Swiss Stocks Rise for Second Day; Swatch, Richemont, Sonova Shares Advance

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-09-14T16:11:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/swiss-stocks-rise-for-second-day-swatch-richemont-sonova-shares-advance.html
Swiss stocks climbed for a second
day, erasing earlier losses, as luxury-goods makers rose amid
speculation China may offer support for the euro area.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA both
gained more than 4 percent in Zurich.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  and  Adecco SA (ADEN) 
also advanced.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  jumped 14 percent after
receiving U.S. approval to resume sales of its cochlear
implants.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, advanced 1.1 percent to 5,417.89 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge has still tumbled 19
percent from this year’s high on Feb. 18 amid concern that
European leaders won’t contain the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis. The broader Swiss Performance Index also increased 1.1
percent today.  “Stocks posted a second day of consecutive gains as
investors continued to bargain hunt in some of the badly beaten
down sectors,” said Sean Power, an equity analyst at  City Index 
in London.  Stocks climbed across Europe as Caijing magazine reported
that China is still willing to buy bonds of nations hit by the
debt crisis. The magazine cited Zhang Xiaoqiang, a vice chairman
of the National Development and Reform Commission.  Wen Jiabao Speech  The report followed comments from Premier Wen Jiabao that
developed nations should cut their deficits rather than relying
on China to bail out the world economy.  Separately, finance ministers from Brazil, Russia, India
and China will meet on Sept. 22 to discuss ways to help Europe
overcome its debt crisis, R. Gopalan, secretary in the
Department of Economic Affairs in the finance ministry, said in
 New Delhi .  Swatch, the biggest watchmaker, and Richemont increased 4.1
percent to 376.90 francs and 6.3 percent to 48.04 francs,
respectively.  CA Cheuvreux today wrote in report to clients that the
least sensitive and most defensive industries in a euro-area
financial crisis are those exposed to the global economy, such
as luxury-goods makers.  Both Swatch and Richemont, the world’s second-biggest
luxury goods company, generate more than 50 percent of their
revenue outside the euro area.  Adecco, the world’s largest temporary-staffing company,
gained 3.6 percent to 34.91 francs. ABB, the largest maker of
power-transmission gear, rose 2.4 percent to 16.10 francs.  Sonova jumped 14 percent to 75.90 francs after receiving
approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to resume
sales of its HiRes 90K cochlear implants following a recall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  