-- 
U.K. Trails U.S. in Public Cloud Adoption, Salesforce CEO Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-14T14:48:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/u-k-trails-u-s-in-public-cloud-adoption-salesforce-chief-benioff-says.html
The U.K. government is “way
behind” the U.S. in the adoption of public cloud services,
according to Marc Benioff, chief executive officer of
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)   Benioff, who met with U.K. Cabinet Office Minister Francis Maude yesterday, said the government was too focused on building
its own Internet-based computing and storage services, rather
than using publicly available cloud systems.  “The government should stop hiding behind the private
cloud” in this way, the CEO said.  In the U.S., Benioff and VCE, a cloud services provider
founded by Cisco Systems Inc. and EMC Corp., sent a report to
the Obama administration in July, urging it to accelerate
government and commercial uptake of cloud computing. The global
market for these services may rise to $148.8 billion in 2014
from $68.3 billion in 2010, researcher Gartner Inc. said.  Salesforce.com will build its first U.K. data center next
year and is in talks with four vendors, Benioff said at the
Cloudforce conference in  London . The San Francisco-based company
is seeking to provide more local bases for data storage to allay
security concerns.  In the European Union, Commissioner  Neelie Kroes ,
responsible for the region’s  Digital Agenda , has asked providers
and users of cloud computing to participate in talks about data
protection and privacy as well as technical and commercial
standards.  “The cloud is critical to  Europe ’s growth,” Kroes  said  in
March. She said the EU needs to develop the right legal
framework, encourage more technology research and push the
public sector to use cloud computing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  