-- 
U.K., France Extend Drone Alliance to Unmanned Fighter Craft

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-09-14T16:46:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/u-k-france-extend-drone-alliance-to-fighter-craft-correct-.html
Britain and France have extended
cooperation on drone technology to an unmanned replacement for
fighter aircraft,  Peter Luff , the U.K. defense-procurement
minister, said today at a military exposition in London.  Jointly producing an unmanned combat air vehicle or UCAV
would result in “genuine” cost savings and efficiencies and
enhance inter-operability, Luff said in an interview on the
sidelines of the DSEi show.  “We are working together on developing the science, the
capability requirements, the doctrines,” the minister said.
“Where it will end I won’t tell you because I don’t know.”  France and Britain pledged last November to jointly develop
the next generation of medium-altitude, long-endurance, or MALE,
drones to end their dependence on U.S. and Israeli unmanned
aircraft for reconnaissance and strike missions, which are
increasingly used in conflicts such as Afghanistan and Libya.  In one scenario, combining efforts to develop a UCAV could
bring together London-based  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and Paris-based
 Dassault Aviation SA (AM) , Luff said. The two companies are already
jointly developing the MALE drone, with an announcement on the
project likely at an upcoming Anglo-French summit, he said.  The drones market today is dominated by offerings from
companies based in the U.S., including San Diego-based General
Atomics and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  of  Falls Church , Virginia, as
well as  Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT)  and Israel Aerospace Industries Ltd.
The European defense industry is eager to develop its own
unmanned aircraft for military use to keep engineers working.  UCAV programs already under way include the Neuron being
developed by Dassault, and BAE’s Taranis program, as well as a
number of projects in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in  London  at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  