-- 
U.S. August Producer Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-09-14T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/u-s-august-producer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
U.S. producer price report for Aug. released by the Labor
Department.  PRODUCER PRICE INDEXES - AUGUST 2011  The Producer Price Index for finished goods was unchanged in
August, seasonally adjusted, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics  reported today. Finished goods prices advanced 0.2
percent in July and declined 0.4 percent in June. At the
earlier stages of processing, prices received by manufacturers
of intermediate goods decreased 0.5 percent in August, and the
crude goods index moved up 0.2 percent. On an unadjusted
basis, prices for finished goods increased 6.5 percent for the
12 months ended August 2011, the smallest year-over-year
advance since a 5.6-percent rise in March 2011.  Stage-of-Processing Analysis  Finished goods  The index for finished goods was unchanged in August, as a 1.1-
percent increase in finished consumer foods prices and a 0.1-
percent advance in the index for finished goods less foods and
energy offset a 1.0-percent decrease in prices for finished
energy goods.  Finished foods:  The index for finished consumer foods jumped
1.1 percent in August, the third straight rise. Over thirty
percent of the August advance can be traced to meat prices,
which climbed 2.4 percent. Higher prices for processed poultry
and eggs for fresh use also were major factors in the increase
in the finished foods index.  Finished core:  Prices for finished goods less foods and
energy inched up 0.1 percent in August, the ninth consecutive
advance. Over twenty percent of the August increase is
attributable to the index for tires, which climbed 1.4
percent. Higher prices for radio and television communication
equipment also contributed to the rise in the finished core
index.  Finished energy:  The index for finished energy goods fell 1.0
percent in August, the third straight decrease. Over half of
the August decline is due to a 6.0-percent drop in prices for
liquefied petroleum gas. Lower prices for gasoline and diesel
fuel also were significant factors in the decrease in the
finished energy goods index.  Intermediate goods  The  Producer Price Index  for intermediate materials, supplies,
and components fell 0.5 percent in August, the first decrease
since July 2010. Most of the August decline can be attributed
to lower prices for intermediate energy goods, which dropped
2.3 percent. The index for intermediate materials less foods
and energy also contributed to this decrease, edging down 0.1
percent. By contrast, prices for intermediate foods and feeds
advanced 1.7 percent. On a 12-month basis, the index for
intermediate goods moved up 10.3 percent in August.  Intermediate energy:  The index for intermediate energy goods
fell 2.3 percent in August, the largest decline since a 2.6-
percent drop in July 2009. Nearly thirty percent of the August
decrease can be attributed to diesel fuel prices, which fell
5.9 percent. Declines in the indexes for lubricating oil base
stocks and liquefied petroleum gas also contributed to lower
intermediate energy goods prices.  Intermediate core:  The index for intermediate goods less
foods and energy edged down 0.1 percent in August, the first
decline since July 2010. In August, about eighty-five percent
of the decrease can be traced to a 2.6-percent drop in prices
for thermoplastic resins and materials. A decline in the index
for hot rolled steel sheet and strip also contributed to lower
intermediate core prices.  Intermediate foods:  The index for intermediate foods and
feeds rose 1.7 percent in August, the third consecutive
advance. Over twenty percent of the August increase is
attributable to formula feed prices, which climbed 3.7
percent.  Crude goods  The Producer Price Index for crude materials for further
processing moved up 0.2 percent in August. For the 3-month
period ending in August, prices for crude materials declined
1.6 percent following a 1.3-percent drop from February to May.
In August, the increase in the crude goods index is mostly
attributable to prices for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs,
which climbed 4.7 percent. Also contributing to the August
advance was a 1.6-percent rise in prices for crude nonfood
materials less energy. By contrast, the index for crude energy
materials decreased 5.1 percent.  Crude foods:  Prices for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs
jumped 4.7 percent in August. From May to August, the crude
foods index rose 6.0 percent subsequent to a 0.7-percent
decline for the 3 months ended in May. The monthly increase in
August was led by a 9.2-percent advance in the corn index.
Higher prices for slaughter steers and heifers and for
slaughter chickens also were factors in the rise in the crude
foods index.  Crude core:  The index for crude nonfood materials less energy
rose 1.6 percent in August. For the 3 months ended in August,
crude core prices advanced 3.4 percent after declining 0.4
percent from February to May. In August, over half of the
monthly increase is attributable to a 9.3-percent rise in
prices for gold ores. An advance in the corn index also was a
significant factor in higher crude core prices.  Crude energy:  Prices for crude energy materials fell 5.1
percent in August. From May to August, the crude energy
materials index moved down 11.4 percent following a 2.2-
percent decrease for the 3-month period ending in May. The
August monthly decline in crude energy prices was the result
of an 11.3-percent drop in the index for crude petroleum.  Services Analysis  Trade industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output
of total trade industries moved up 1.6 percent in August, the
largest increase since a 2.2-percent jump in January 2007.
(Trade indexes measure changes in margins received by
wholesalers and retailers.) About one-third of the August
advance can be traced to margins received by merchant
wholesalers of durable goods, which moved up 2.3 percent.
Higher margins received by gasoline stations and grocery
stores also contributed to the rise in the total trade
industries index.  Transportation and warehousing industries:  The Producer Price
Index for the net output of transportation and warehousing
industries moved up 0.2 percent in August, the eleventh
straight increase. The August advance is mostly attributable
to a 3.0-percent rise in prices received by the scheduled
passenger air transportation industry. Higher prices received
by the industries for long-distance general freight trucking
(less than truckload) and for Coastal and Great Lakes freight
transportation also were factors in the rise in the
transportation and warehousing industries index.  Traditional  service industries :  The Producer Price Index for
the net output of total traditional service industries climbed
0.2 percent in August, the third consecutive increase. About
one-fifth of the August advance can be traced to prices
received by the commercial banking industry, which moved up
0.5 percent. Increases in the indexes for direct property and
casualty insurance carriers and for non-casino hotels and
motels also contributed to the advance in the total
traditional service industries index.  ____________
The Producer Price Index for September 2011 is scheduled to be
released on Tuesday, October 18, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. (EDT).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  