-- 
U.S. Fiscal Plans Not Enough to Help Current Account, IMF Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-09-14T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/u-s-fiscal-plans-not-enough-to-help-current-account-imf-says.html
The U.S. fiscal policy plans so far
will do little to reduce the country’s current account deficit,
the  International Monetary Fund  said.  An analysis of fiscal tightening over the past 30 years in
developed economies shows that the current account, the broadest
measure of international trade, responds “substantially” to
fiscal policy, the IMF said in a chapter of its World Economic
Outlook report released today. When several countries act at the
same time, the impact depends on the amount of permanent
measures countries are taking relative to one another, the IMF
said.  “Looking ahead, the differing magnitudes of fiscal
adjustment plans across the world will help lower imbalances
within the euro area and reduce emerging  Asia ’s external
surpluses,” the IMF said in its report. “The relative lack of
permanent consolidation measures in the U.S. suggests that
fiscal policy will contribute little to lessening the U.S.
external deficit.”  Developed economies whose deficits surged during the global
recession are now under pressure to narrow them as the European
debt crisis threatens to spread to the core of the euro region.
The  U.S. Congress , after agreeing to cut $917 billion in
spending over a decade, has yet to craft an additional $1.5
trillion plan to reduce its national debt.  The study looks at the implications of planned fiscal
adjustment in the U.S.,  Japan ,  Germany , the euro area excluding
Germany, emerging Asia and the rest of the world between 2010
and 2016.  Permanent Measures  “Because the bulk of the large fiscal adjustment in the
U.S. is due to the expiration of temporary fiscal stimulus and
not because of new, permanent fiscal measures, the planned
fiscal adjustment around the world is not likely to help narrow
the U.S. current account deficit,” according to the report.  The study doesn’t take into account the additional measures
that have not yet been agreed on in the U.S., Abdul Abiad, one
of the study’s authors, told reporters in  Washington  today. If
they were implemented, that would help reduce the current
account deficit, he said.  The U.S. current-account deficit widened to $119.3 billion
in the first quarter amid surging oil costs that boosted imports
at the beginning of 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 