-- 
Wholesale Prices in U.S. Are Little Changed as Energy, Vehicle Costs Drop

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-14T12:48:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/u-s-producer-price-index-was-unchanged-in-august-core-up-0-1-.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S. were
little changed in August as costs decreased for energy and
automobiles.  The  producer price index  was unchanged after a 0.2 percent
increase in July, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. Economists projected no change, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The so-called core
measure, which excludes volatile food and energy, rose 0.1
percent, less than forecast.  Slowing growth overseas and in the U.S. is helping restrain
raw-material costs, underscoring Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke view that price gains are “transitory.” Cooling
prices make it easier for policy makers to take additional steps
when they meet next week to keep the economy expanding.  “Inflation is cooling and that will provide some relief
for consumers,” said  Mark Vitner , a senior economist at  Wells
Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , who projected
no change in August producer prices. “With inflation seeming to
crest, it gives the Fed a freer hand.”  Retail sales in August unexpectedly stagnated as a lack of
jobs restrained shoppers, highlighting the risk the economy will
stall. The unchanged reading followed a 0.3 percent gain for
July that was smaller than previously estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed in Washington.  Index Futures  Stock-index futures trimmed gains after the reports. The
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in
December rose 0.8 percent to 1,174.6 at 8:45 a.m. in  New York 
after rallying as much as 1.2 percent earlier.  The median estimate for producer prices was based on
forecasts from 77 economists. Projections ranged from declines
of 0.6 percent to increases of 0.9 percent.  Compared with August 2010, companies paid 6.5 percent more
for goods last month, the smallest gain since April, after a 7.2
percent rise in July.  Wholesale prices excluding volatile food and energy costs,
were projected to rise 0.2 percent from the prior month, the
Bloomberg survey showed. Core wholesale prices climbed 2.5
percent in the 12 months ended in August.  Tire Prices  The biggest price gain for tires since April accounted for
more than 20 percent of the increase in the core measure, the
Labor Department said. Higher costs for radio and television
communications equipment also contributed to the gain in the
core index. Tire prices climbed 1.4 percent.  Fuel costs fell 1 percent, reflecting declines for
liquefied petroleum gas, diesel, heating oil and gasoline,
today’s report showed. The cost of finished consumer foods rose
1.1 percent, the most since February, led by eggs and poultry.
Processed poultry costs rose the most since August 2006.  Expenses for intermediate goods decreased 0.5 percent from
the prior month, the first decline since July 2010, while prices
of crude goods rose 0.2 percent.  Lowe’s Cos. Inc., the second-largest home-improvement
retailer, has been raising its prices on some goods as it sees
increased costs from vendors.  “Vendors are coming forward with price-increase
requests,” Robert Gfeller, executive vice president for
merchandising at Lowe’s, said in a teleconference Sept. 7. “Our
approach is to negotiate as hard as we can to the lowest cost
possible. Where we have taken (increased) pricing, we have moved
some through to retail.”  Vehicle Costs  The cost of passenger cars dropped 0.4 percent in August,
today’s report showed.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  is among carmakers offering lower prices
after inventories recovered following the earthquake and tsunami
in March. The Toyota City, Japan-based automaker is starting a
blitz of U.S. model releases, some of them with cheaper price-
tags, to regain sales lost to rivals such as Hyundai Motor Co.
after three years that included recession, recalls and the
earthquake.  Toyota last month unveiled the 2012 Camry in Hollywood,
 California , with price reductions ranging from $200 to $2,000 on
the top-end, four-cylinder Camry,  Bob Carter , group vice
president of U.S. sales, said in an interview.  “We see little indication that the higher rate of
inflation experienced so far this year has become ingrained in
the economy,” Bernanke told the Economic Club of  Minnesota  last
week. “Inflation is expected to moderate in the coming
quarters,” he said, citing the waning of “transitory”
influences like high fuel prices and global supply disruptions
linked to  Japan ’s disaster.  Preferred Gauge  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 1.6 percent in July from a year earlier after
climbing 0.9 percent in 2010. Fed policy makers aim for long-run
overall inflation of 1.7 percent to 2 percent, according to
their June forecast.  Producer prices, one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department, are calculated based on costs
on the Tuesday of the week containing the 13th of the month,
which may influence month-to-month changes.  Prices of goods imported into the U.S. fell 0.4 percent in
August from the prior month, Labor Department data showed
yesterday. Costs advanced 13 percent from August 2010.  Consumer prices, the broadest of the three measures, rose
0.2 percent in August, as did the core index, according to the
median forecasts of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a
Labor Department report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  