-- 
U.S. Equities Will Stall on Slow Economic Growth, Yardeni Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-09-14T16:37:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/u-s-equities-will-stall-on-slow-economic-growth-yardeni-says-tom-keene.html
U.S. stocks will stay at current
levels in 2011 as companies struggle to beat analyst estimates
amid slower economic growth, according to Edward Yardeni, chief
investment strategist at Yardeni Research Inc.  “For the S&P 500, I don’t expect we will cover much ground
when we look at the trend over the rest of the year,” Yardeni
said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “The main reason
is that earnings estimates are just too high,” he said. “For
the past nine quarters, industry analysts were too low and there
were lots of positive surprises. That’s going to be a little
more challenging going into the upcoming earnings season.”  S&P 500 earnings are poised to reach a record $99.74 a
share this year, according to the average of securities industry
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, after companies beat
projections for 10 straight quarters. Analysts are more
optimistic about earnings since the S&P 500 peaked at a three-
year high on April 29, driving their forecast up from $98.73 a
share that day.  Economic growth will stay suppressed as the U.S. fails to
add jobs and  Europe  fights to stay out of a recession while
attempting to solve its fiscal crisis, according to  New York- 
based Yardeni, 61, who estimates that gross domestic product in
the U.S. will expand 1.5 percent to 2 percent in the second half
of 2011 and less than that on a global basis. The benchmark
index for U.S. equities has fallen as much as 18 percent from a
three-year high on April 29.  U.S. Growth  “I’m just looking for slow growth from the U.S.,” the
strategist said today. “We’ve clearly got the risk that Europe
falls into a recession, maybe a modest recession in the second
half of the year. All of that suggests that corporations that
have had a lot of success finding revenue and earnings growth on
a global basis may find it a little more challenging in the next
couple of quarters.”  Economists have been cutting their forecasts for growth,
according to a Bloomberg News survey taken from Sept. 2 to Sept.
7. The median forecast calls for a 1.8 percent annual pace of
expansion in the third quarter, down from 2.1 percent in the
previous month’s survey. Growth next year is forecast to average
2.2 percent, down from 2.4 percent.  “I do think that the stock market is going to do better
next year,” said Yardeni, who predicts corporate earnings
growth of 5 percent in 2012. “Earnings are going to continue to
grow, I’m not looking for recession,” he said. “Valuation
multiples are probably not going any lower, they are awfully
depressed.”  Wall Street firms say  S&P 500  profits will increase 18
percent for all of 2011 and 12 percent in 2012. The gauge trades
for about 12.9 times reported income, up from the 2 1/2-year low
of 12.2 reached on Aug. 8 while still below the average of 16.4
since 1954, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  