-- 
U.S. Company Risk Index Falls for Second Day From Two-Year High

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-09-14T21:32:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/u-s-investment-grade-company-risk-gauge-declines-from-a-two-year-high.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk declined for a second day from a two-year high as German
and French leaders expressed support for  Greece  to remain in the
euro monetary union.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, fell 2.2 basis points to a mid-
price of 129.1 basis points as of 5:15 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, declined as
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said they’re convinced Greece will remain in the euro
area, according to a statement issued by Sarkozy after they
spoke to Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  by telephone.  “Any iota of positive news, or at least positively
perceived news, results in a rally,”  Adrian Miller , a New York-
based fixed-income strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities
LLC said in an e-mail.  The credit swaps index rose to 135.9 basis points, its
highest level since July 2009, on Sept. 12 as investor concern
mounted that Greece would default.  Credit-default swaps on  Dynegy Inc. (DYN) , the power producer
that warned earlier this year it may seek  bankruptcy protection ,
dropped 2.3 percentage points to 34.4 percent upfront as of 5
p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA.  UBS Request  The contracts decreased after Zurich-based UBS AG asked a
derivatives industry group to determine whether there has been a
so-called succession event at Dynegy. That would include a
company dividing into two, in which the debt can remain whole
with one entity or be split between each.  That may cause credit-swap contracts to fall if the debt is
tied to an entity with a better credit profile than its parent.  UBS made the  request  to the  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association , according to a letter on the New York-
based group’s website.  The third-largest independent U.S. power producer has
posted five straight quarterly losses driven by lower power
prices and reduced cash flow. It transferred $1.25 billion of
assets, mainly coal-fired power facilities, out of a unit that
issued bonds for the company earlier this month, after saying
July 10 it would retool its structure to create two units, one
owning eight natural gas-fired power generation facilities and
another owning a group of six coal-fired facilities.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  