-- 
U.S. Says Fighters Tied to Pakistan’s ISI Were Behind Kabul Embassy Attack

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-09-15T11:11:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/u-s-says-fighters-tied-to-pakistan-spy-agency-hit-kabul-embassy.html
Top American officials blamed a
Taliban faction with ties to  Pakistan ’s military intelligence
agency for the attack on the  U.S. Embassy  in Kabul and said the
Obama administration will not accept its haven in Pakistan.  The attackers who seized a building under construction and
fired rocket-propelled grenades into the embassy came from the
Jalaluddin Haqqani group, U.S. Ambassador  Ryan Crocker  told
reporters in Kabul after Afghan forces ended the 20-hour siege
yesterday. The Haqqani fighters operate largely from a sanctuary
in Pakistan’s borderland with Afghanistan.  Crocker and U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said the
Haqqani group also was behind the Sept. 10 truck-bomb attack on
a U.S. base southwest of Kabul that injured 77 Americans.
Panetta called the Haqqani group’s continued “safe haven” in
Pakistan “unacceptable.”  “I’m not going to talk about how we’re going to respond,”
Panetta told reporters. “I’ll just let you know we are not
going to allow these kinds of attacks to go on.”  Haqqani’s faction is backing Pakistan in a sharpening
“struggle with the U.S. over which country will play a more
central role in brokering an eventual peace deal” in
 Afghanistan , said Waliullah Rahmani, director of the independent
 Kabul Center for Strategic Studies . The attack on the U.S.
Embassy, which began Sept. 13, is likely to be part of that
struggle, he said in a phone interview yesterday.  Pakistani Response  Pakistan’s foreign ministry spokeswoman, Tehmina Janjua,
said today Panetta’s comments “are not in line with the
cooperation that exists between the two countries on the war
against terrorism.” Pakistani cooperation with the U.S. “is
premised on the respect for Pakistan’s sovereignty and envisages
a joint action,” Janjua told reporters in Islamabad.  Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs
of Staff, said in April he was troubled by continued relations
between the Haqqani group and Pakistan’s  Inter-Services
Intelligence Directorate , or ISI.  Crocker said the assault had not seriously endangered the
embassy. “They were firing from at least 800 meters away, and
with an RPG,” he said. “That’s harassment, that’s not an
attack.”  Eleven Afghan civilians died in the attack and four
coordinated suicide bombings, the commander of NATO forces in
Afghanistan, General John Allen, said yesterday. Five Afghan
police officers were also killed.  Haqqani Attacks  The Haqqani group, based in eastern Afghanistan and the
Pakistani region of Waziristan, has claimed responsibility or
been blamed by the Afghan, U.S. and Indian governments for
attacks on Kabul in the past three years against the Indian
Embassy, government ministries and hotels where foreign
diplomats or aid workers were living.  Pakistan’s ISI  has directly backed  at least some of those
attacks, including a July 2008 bombing of the Indian Embassy
that killed 54 people, former Afghan intelligence director
Amrullah Saleh told the PBS television network in January.  Officers in Pakistan’s ISI have scuttled CIA efforts to
kill or capture Haqqani network leaders by leaking details of
the planned raids, according to former CIA counter-terrorism
chief Vincent Cannistraro and other agency retirees.  While the 18-month-old U.S. military offensive in
southernmost Afghanistan has eroded the fighting capacity of
Taliban in that region, the largely independent Haqqani faction
has increased its capacity for sophisticated urban warfare and
terrorist strikes, said Rahmani and Hadi Khalid, a former deputy
interior minister and retired Afghan army general. In a string
of recent Taliban assaults, “most of the complex attacks have
been conducted by Haqqani’s network,” Khalid said in a phone
interview.  Proxy Force  Imtiaz Gul, an analyst at the independent, Pakistan-based
 Center for Research and Security Studies , says Pakistan’s army,
which has supported the Haqqani faction since the 1980s, is
trying to use it as a proxy force to ensure that any Afghan
government will respect Pakistani security interests. Pakistan
wants to make certain that Afghanistan will not align with its
rival,  India , and won’t pursue old Afghan claims to sovereignty
over ethnic Pashtun regions of western Pakistan, he said.  Although U.S. officials for years have declined to discuss
links between Pakistan’s military and the Haqqani guerrillas,
Mullen, the U.S. military chief, did so April 20 in a visit to
Pakistan. Pakistan’s ISI “has a longstanding relationship with
the Haqqani network,” Mullen said. “I’m extremely concerned in
particular about that aspect.”  NATO Wounded  The Washington Post and New York Times have cited U.S. and
Pakistani officials as saying President  Barack Obama ’s
government is seeking to pursue talks with the Taliban without
using Pakistan as a mediator.  Taliban spokesman  Zabihullah Mujahed  declined to comment
yesterday on a report in the Times of  London  that the guerrilla
movement may open an office in the Arab gulf state of Qatar as a
possible point of contact for U.S. or other governments for
future negotiations.  Although rockets have been fired in the U.S. Embassy’s
direction during the decade-old war, this latest assault was the
most direct and ambitious so far.  While no U.S. staffers were injured, four Afghans at the
mission’s compound were hurt, embassy spokeswoman Kerri Hannan
said in a statement Sept. 13. Six personnel of NATO’s
 International Security Assistance Force  were injured, the force
said in a statement.  Disguised Guerrillas  The attackers set off suicide bombs Sept. 13 at an
intersection east of the embassy compound and seven guerrillas
rushed into the high-rise overlooking the U.S. mission and
headquarters of the U.S.-led ISAF. All were killed.  Police said the militants may have donned the enveloping
blue burqas worn by many Afghan women to ferry a carload of
weapons and ammunition past checkpoints.  The attack came three weeks after the Taliban killed eight
people in an assault on the British Council cultural center,
northwest of the city center.  Two days before the strike, Crocker presided over a Sept.
11  memorial ceremony  in which the ISAF commander, Marine General
John Allen, said forces had “reversed the momentum of the
insurgents. On this sacred day of remembrance, I can say we are
on the path of success in Afghanistan.”  President  Hamid Karzai  said Sept. 13 that Afghan forces,
rather than international troops, responded to the latest
attack, according to a statement from his office. Such assaults
“cannot stop the process” of shifting security
responsibilities from international to Afghan forces, Karzai
said, “but rather embolden our people’s determination in taking
the responsibility for their country’s own affairs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  