-- 
U.S. Stocks Rally as Germany, France Express Support for Greece

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-14T20:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/u-s-stock-futures-drop-as-china-signals-reluctance-on-bailouts.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index higher for a third day, as French
President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor Angela Merkel
said they are convinced Greece will remain in the euro zone.  All 10 groups in the S&P 500 advanced.  General Electric
Co. (GE) ,  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and  Monsanto Co. (MON)  rose at least 2.4 percent,
pacing gains in companies most-tied to economic growth. The Dow
Jones Transportation Average, a proxy for the economy, added 2
percent, as  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  climbed 1.4 percent. Dell Inc. advanced
3.3 percent as the second-largest personal-computer maker
approved an additional $5 billion for its stock repurchases.  The S&P 500 gained 1.4 percent to 1,188.68 at 4 p.m. New
York time, rallying 3 percent in three days and erasing its drop
on Sept. 9, which had been driven by speculation Greece could
default. The index pared a gain of as much as 2.5 percent in the
final minutes of trading today. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
rose 140.88 points, or 1.3 percent, to 11,246.73.  “It’s a psychological lift,”  Peter Sorrentino , a senior
 money manager  at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, said
in a telephone interview. The firm oversees $14.8 billion. “The
Europeans haven’t given up hope. It buys them another day.
There’s a desire to keep the euro strong. The question is -- do
they have the mechanism in place to avoid a domino effect?”  Concern the global economy was slipping back into a
recession amid a worsening European-debt crisis triggered an 18
percent plunge in the S&P 500 between the end of April and Aug.
8. Since then, the index has rebounded 6.2 percent.  ‘More Than Ever’  German  Chancellor Merkel  is convinced the future of  Greece 
is inside the euro area, following a telephone conversation with
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  and French President Sarkozy,
government spokesman Steffen Seibert said. The fulfillment of
Greece’s adjustment program is “more than ever” essential and
is a condition for the payment of further aid tranches, Merkel
said, according to an e-mailed statement.  Papandreou committed to meet deficit-reduction targets
demanded as a condition for an international bailout, according
to statements distributed by Athens and Paris, easing concerns
Greece may default on its debt.  “It’s a relief rally,”  John Carey , a Boston-based money
manager at Pioneer Investments, said in a telephone interview.
The firm oversees about $250 billion. “Over the last few days,
there had been speculation that  Germany  was about to pull the
plug and abandon the effort to keep Greece solvent and funded.
Stocks have been beaten up. On the slightest bit of potentially
good news, people tend to scoop up some of those bargains.”  Chinese Support  Stocks also rallied on optimism that  China  may support
 Europe . China is willing to buy the bonds of nations hit by the
debt crisis, Caijing reported on its website today, citing  Zhang
Xiaoqiang , a vice chairman of the National Development and
Reform Commission.  Earlier today, equities slumped after inventories in the
U.S. rose less than forecast in July, indicating companies are
bracing for a slowdown in demand. Separate data showed that
retail sales in the U.S. unexpectedly stagnated in August as a
lack of employment and limited income growth restrained demand,
highlighting the risk the economy will stall.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies whose
earnings are most-tied to economic growth gained 1.7 percent. GE
advanced 2.5 percent to $15.79. Home Depot jumped 2.7 percent to
$33.54. Monsanto climbed 3.1 percent to $69.47. FedEx added 1.4
percent to $76.01.  Dell, Yahoo  Dell increased 3.3 percent to $14.86. The repurchase plan
adds to the $2.16 billion remaining from prior authorizations at
the end of the fiscal second quarter, which ended in July. The
 Round Rock , Texas-based company spent $1.6 billion on buybacks
through the first half of the year.  Yahoo! Inc. climbed 2.1 percent to $14.55 as investor  Third
Point  LLC ramped up pressure on the company’s board, saying it
may add to its 5.2 percent stake.  Daniel Loeb , chief executive
officer of Third Point, said he’d seek U.S. approval to buy more
stock in a regulatory filing and criticized Chairman Roy
Bostock’s oversight of the company in a letter today to Yahoo
co-founder Jerry Yang.  Pessimism about U.S. stocks among newsletter writers
increased to its highest point since March 2009, when the last
bear market ended, spurring speculation equities will rebound.  The share of bearish publications tracked by Investors
Intelligence rose to 40.9 percent yesterday from 37.6 percent a
week earlier. When the proportion was last this high, the  S&P
500  started a bull market rally that produced gains of as much
as 102 percent.  ‘Pretty Bad News’  “When you have bearish sentiment at a peak, it’s one good
indication that you’ve shaken loose most of the people who are
inclined to be rattled,” Bruce McCain, who helps oversee $22
billion as chief investment strategist at the private-banking
unit of KeyCorp in Cleveland, said in a telephone interview.
“We’ve had some pretty bad news out of Europe the past couple
days, and yet the market’s been able to keep a little bit of a
positive tilt to it.”  Edward Yardeni , chief investment strategist at Yardeni
Research Inc., isn’t expecting an immediate rebound. He believes
U.S. stocks will stay at current levels in 2011 as companies
struggle to beat analyst estimates. S&P 500 earnings are poised
to reach a record $99.74 a share this year, according to the
average of securities industry estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “For the S&P 500, I don’t expect we will cover much ground
when we look at the trend over the rest of the year,” Yardeni
said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “The main reason
is that earnings estimates are just too high,” he said. “For
the past nine quarters, industry analysts were too low and there
were lots of positive surprises. That’s going to be a little
more challenging going into the upcoming earnings season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  