-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Copper Falls on Credit-Rating Cuts

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-14T11:35:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-copper-falls-on-credit-rating-cuts.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Copper Falls as Credit-Rating Cuts Stoke Debt-Crisis Concern  Copper fell in  London  on concern about Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis after Moody’s Investors Service lowered credit
ratings for two of France’s three largest banks by assets.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Indian Steel Ministry Recommends Raising Iron Ore Export Tax (1)  India , the world’s third-largest iron-ore exporter, should
increase the tax on overseas sales of the raw material to 30
percent to curb shipments and boost local supplies, Steel
Minister Beni Prasad Verma said.  Ghana Economy May Grow 20% on Oil, Gold, Cocoa, World Bank Says  Ghana’s economy may expand by 20 percent this year as the
start of oil production for export, along with high prices for
cocoa and gold, boost revenue, according to the  World Bank .  Korean Offshore Wind Farm Helps Shipyards Challenge Siemens (2)  South Korea’s investment in a 9.2 trillion won ($8.4
billion) offshore wind farm may help domestic shipbuilders
challenge Siemens AG and Vestas Wind Systems A/S in the global
turbine market.  Fuel-Oil Loss Set for Two-Year Low on Supplies: Energy Markets  Refining losses from producing fuel oil in Asia are headed
toward the lowest level in almost two years as Russian and
Indian producers cut output while Japanese and Chinese demand
increases.  Romanian Utilities May Get 75 Million Free 2013-2020 CO2 Permits  Romania may give about 75 million free carbon permits to
energy producers in the seven years starting in 2013, with oil
company OMV Petrom SA and two state-owned  power plants  poised to
get almost half of the allowances.  Gold Shares to Beat Market, Push Nearer Record: Chart of the Day  Gold shares will extend gains that have seen them beat the
stock market by 25 percentage points in the past two months and
push them closer to a record against a gauge of global equities,
according to RBC Capital Markets Ltd.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Nippon Steel Said to Be in Talks to Acquire Usiminas Stake (1)  Nippon Steel Corp.,  Japan ’s largest steelmaker, and
 Brazil ’s Gerdau SA are in talks to stave off a rival $2.9
billion bid for a stake in Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA, or Usiminas, said two people familiar with the
negotiations.  MINING:  Metalloinvest’s Iron-Ore Output Climbs 7% on ‘Mining Efficiency’  Metalloinvest Holding Co., Russian billionaire Alisher
Usmanov’s mining company, said iron-ore output rose 7 percent in
the first half from the previous half following gains in
“mining efficiency.”  Jastrzebska, Bogdanka Advance After Polish Court Rules on Taxes  Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA and Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka
SA, Poland’s only publicly traded coal producers, climbed after
a Polish Constitutional Tribunal ruling on mining taxes.  Philippines  Seeks to Boost Earnings From Mining, Paje Says  The Philippines is seeking to boost earnings from mining by
declaring more areas exclusively for that purpose, Environment
Secretary Ramon Paje told reporters in  Manila  today.  Freeport Miners in  Peru ,  Indonesia  Will Go on Strike Over Wages  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s copper miners in Peru
and Indonesia will go on strike today after pay-increase talks
broke down, union officials said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold May Climb to $2,500 by 2013, Newmont’s O’Brien Says (1)  Newmont Mining Corp., the largest U.S. gold producer, said
the price of bullion may jump 36 percent to $2,500 an ounce by
2013.  Gold May Fall in London as  Europe ’s Debt Woes Bolster Dollar  Gold may decline in London as concerns about Europe’s debt
crisis bolster the dollar and cut demand for the metal as an
alternative asset.  AGRICULTURE:  India Signs Deals to Ship 500,000 Tons Rice After Ban Lifted  Indian traders have signed contracts to export about
500,000 metric tons of non-basmati rice since the government
scrapped a ban on shipments by private companies last week, an
exporter said.  Sugar Falls to 10-Week Low on Supply Outlook; Coffee Declines  Sugar fell to a 10-week low in London on prospects for
higher European production. Robusta coffee dropped to the lowest
price in five weeks.  Pakistan  Lost 3 Million Bales of Cotton to Flooding, Akhtar Says  Flooding in Sindh province in Pakistan, the world’s fourth-
biggest cotton grower, damaged an estimated 3 million bales of
fiber, a government official said.  Corn Futures Extend Losses as U.S. Crop Improves, Soybeans Drop  Corn fell, extending its biggest slump in a week, as the
condition of the U.S. crop improves and soybeans dropped after
the Department of Agriculture’s global supply-and-demand report
showed rising inventories.  Sugar Surplus Estimate Is Cut 50% at Czarnikow on Brazilian Cane  The sugar market will be in surplus by 5.3 million metric
tons in the 2011-12 season, about 50 percent below May’s 10.3
million-ton estimate, according to C. Czarnikow Sugar Futures
Ltd.  Japan Purchases 1,000 Tons of Feed Wheat in Tender (1)  Japan bought 1,000 metric tons of feed wheat today through
a tender system introduced to loosen government grain-import
controls, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
said.  SHIPPING:  Maersk Lured by $1.5 Trillion Asia-Africa Trade: Freight Markets  A record surge in trade between  Asia  and Africa to as much
as $1.5 trillion by 2020 is prompting companies including AP
Moeller-Maersk A/S and Deutsche Post AG to expand shipping links
between the continents.  Exports of 12 Main North Sea Crudes to Increase 4.4% in October  Daily exports of 12 main grades of North Sea crude oil will
increase by 4.4 percent next month, loading programs obtained by
Bloomberg News showed.  Container-Ship Glut Clips Peak Season Asia-EU Rates, Maersk Says  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the No. 1 container line, said
it’s struggling to raise peak-season rates on the Asia-Europe
shipping route, the world’s second-busiest, as an influx of new
vessels leads to a glut in capacity.  ECONOMIES:  Wen Says World Must Get ‘Houses in Order,’ Not Rely on  China  (1)  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao, facing calls to widen support
for indebted European countries, signaled that developed nations
should cut deficits and create jobs rather than relying on China
to bail out the world economy.  ADB Says Asia Inflation Risk Persists Even as Growth Outlook Cut  The  Asian Development Bank  said inflation will put pressure
on regional policy makers to manage price increases even as a
faltering global recovery reduces economic growth.  Greece  Should ‘Default Big’ to Address Crisis, Blejer Says (1)  Mario Blejer, who managed Argentina’s central bank in the
aftermath of the world’s biggest sovereign default, said Greece
should halt payments on its debt to stop a deterioration of the
economy that threatens the European Union.  Geithner Takes Tougher Tone as European Crisis Roils Markets (1)  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will urge European
governments to step up their crisis- fighting efforts amid Obama
administration concerns that the region’s woes may hurt the U.S.
economy.  Pessimism Surges as 72% See U.S. Economy on Wrong Course in Poll  Americans’ pessimism about the economy has deepened and
confidence in both political parties has fallen with only 20
percent saying the country is on the right course even as they
remain divided over solutions.  OTHER MARKETS:  European Stocks Advance on China Support Bets; Treasuries Fall  Stocks rose for a second day in Europe and U.S. index
futures gained, reversing earlier losses, on speculation China
may still offer support for the region. Treasuries fell, while
oil and copper pared declines.  Euro Advances Versus Dollar; Strengthens 0.3 Percent to $1.3724  The euro strengthened versus the dollar, trading 0.3
percent higher at $1.3724 as of 11:39 a.m. in London.  Asia Currencies Drop on Europe Crisis, ADB Growth-Outlook Cut  Asian currencies weakened, led by  South Korea ’s won, as
concern the region’s economic growth is slowing and Europe’s
debt crisis is worsening sapped demand for emerging-market
assets.  U.S. Stock Futures Advance; Dell Gains as Goldman Sachs Slides  U.S. stock futures climbed, erasing earlier losses, after a
report that China may offer support for the most-indebted euro-
area economies.  Oil Drops From Six-Week High as Europe Crisis Threatens Demand  Oil declined from a six-week high on concern that Europe’s
debt crisis and the faltering U.S. economic recovery will temper
fuel demand.  Obama Approval Plummets Among Americans Skeptical of Jobs Plan  A majority of Americans don’t believe President Barack
Obama’s $447 billion jobs plan will help lower the  unemployment
rate , skepticism he must overcome as he presses Congress for
action and positions himself for re- election.  SPORTS:  Birmingham City’s Yeung Loses Court Permission to Travel (2)  Hong Kong ’s High Court overruled a lower court decision
allowing Birmingham International Holdings Ltd. Chairman  Carson
Yeung  to leave Hong Kong while on bail, according to Yeung’s
lawyer Clive Grossman.  Bolton Chasing Chilean Star Magnasco, Mirror Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  