-- 
U2 Rift, Pearl Jam Tragedy, Young’s Youth Explored in Toronto

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/u2-rift-pearl-jam-tragedy-young-s-youth-explored-in-toronto.html
During a press conference at
the  Toronto International Film Festival , U2 singer Bono was
asked how close the band came to breaking up while
recording the album “Achtung Baby” in the early 1990s.  “Very,” he replied.  Pressed to rate it on a scale of 1-10, Bono grinned
and added, “Very is Irish for nine.”  When it comes to hyped documentaries about rock
legends, Toronto rates a 10 this year.  “ From the Sky Down ,” Oscar-winner Davis Guggenheim’s
film about U2, was the first documentary in the festival’s
36-year history to be selected as the opening-night
feature.  Also playing in Toronto are “ Pearl Jam Twenty ,” a
celebration of the band’s 20th anniversary by Cameron Crowe, and “ Neil Young Journeys ,” Jonathan Demme’s
production of the singer’s two concerts at Toronto’s Massey
Hall in May.  Though they differ in style and tone, all three films
are admiring portraits made by celebrated directors.  “From the Sky Down,” which will be shown Oct. 29 on
Showtime, centers on “Achtung Baby,” the seminal 1991
album that marked a dramatic turning point in U2’s career.
Guggenheim follows the band as it returns to the Berlin
studio where “Achtung” was recorded to rehearse for the
2011 Glastonbury Festival in  England .  Raw Interviews  When U2 was making the record, artistic and personal
conflicts threatened to pull them apart.  “What was really at stake was the end of the trust
that bound the four of us together,” U2 guitarist The Edge
said at the press conference.  Guggenheim, who had worked with The Edge on a
documentary about electric guitarists called “It Might Get
Loud,” was given intimate access to the band.  The director of  Al Gore ’s “An Inconvenient Truth”
recorded long, rambling audio-only interviews with U2 that
are sprinkled throughout the film.  “I wanted them stripped down, raw and
unselfconscious,” Guggenheim said.  Sometimes, Bono said, it got too close for comfort.  “I felt like I was mugged,” he said, “and what
really annoyed me was I didn’t know I was being mugged
because of the way Davis carries himself. It was a sleight-
of-hand trick.”  Ordering Pizza  “Pearl Jam Twenty,” scheduled to be shown in
theaters next week and telecast by PBS on Oct. 21,
chronicles the history of a group that helped put  Seattle 
on the musical map. The film tracks the group’s rise from
local grunge band to superstars packing arenas and stadiums
around the world.  Pearl Jam is a rarity in the rock world, a group that
has stayed together for two decades with virtually the same
lineup. Lead singer Eddie Vedder and guitarists Jeff Ament,
Stone Gossard and Mike McCready have been with the group
since the beginning, while drummer Matt Cameron joined in
1998.  “Playing in a band is really a delicate thing,”
Vedder told reporters in Toronto. “If you’ve ever tried to
order a pizza with five people, it’s difficult. ... So
we’ve been very fortunate.”  Overcoming Tragedy  Ament and Gossard previously played in a group called
Mother Love Bone, whose lead singer  Andrew Wood  died of a
heroin overdose in 1990.  “Pearl Jam takes the usual rock story and turns it on
its head,” said Crowe, who wrote and directed “Almost
Famous,” a 2000 film based on his days as a teenage music
journalist.  “The usual rock story is incredible promise, a brief
period of brilliance, then tragedy cuts it short. Pearl Jam
is exactly the opposite. It’s a tragedy that was
surmounted. These guys found joy through survival.”  The film includes rarely seen footage of the band, on
and off the stage.  “The Holy Grail was the film of Kurt Cobain and Eddie
slow-dancing backstage at the 1992 VMAs (Video Music
Awards),” Crowe said. “ Eric Clapton  was playing ‘Tears in
Heaven’ at the time. It’s so powerful because it’s such a
human moment.”  Young at Massey  “Neil Young Journeys” is the third collaboration
between Demme and the great Canadian singer/songwriter
following “Neil Young: Heart of Gold” and “Neil Young
Trunk Show.”  It shows Young’s triumphant return to Massey Hall,
where he gave a famous solo acoustic concert in 1971. The
film intersperses songs from the 2011 concerts with Young’s
memories of his youth as he drives a 1956 Ford Crown
Victoria to Toronto from his boyhood home in Omemee,
Ontario.  During a talk with the audience following the film’s
premiere, Young fielded a question from a fourth-grade
classmate he “had a crush on.” He recalled winning a
prize at a fair and dropping it off at her house, even
though he wasn’t sure what it was.  “I read later it was a dog collar,” he said.  Young tried to make it as a musician in Toronto in the
1960s before moving to  Los Angeles .  “I was a complete failure here,” he told the
audience. “I couldn’t get a job in this place.”  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in Toronto at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 