-- 
UN Nuclear Gambit Succeeds in Raising Pressure on North Korea

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-09-14T12:52:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/un-nuclear-gambit-succeeds-in-raising-pressure-on-north-korea.html
The United Nations nuclear agency’s
gambit to raise pressure on  North Korea  over its atomic-weapons
program paid off today in Vienna, where  Europe  and the U.S.
condemned Pyongyang’s government.  “We share the director general’s serious concern” about
North Korea’s nuclear activities, U.S. Ambassador Glyn Davies
said in a four-page statement delivered to the  International
Atomic Energy Agency  in the Austrian capital. “We call on all
states to increase their vigilance against North Korean
proliferation activities.”  IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano has pressed inspectors
to apply more political pressure against member states that have
run afoul of atomic nonproliferation rules. Earlier this month,
the UN’s “Atoms for Peace” agency issued its first  North
Korean report  in four years. It lists violations from testing
nuclear weapons to exporting atomic technology and hiding its
work from international inspection.  Noting a separate UN Security Council report, the European
Union said today in a two-page statement that it was concerned
“certain countries such as  Syria  and  Iran  continue to be
associated with North Korea in regard to nuclear and ballistic-
missile-related activity.”  The IAEA, which calls itself a technical agency, may face
different risks by applying political pressure, according to
 Mark Hibbs , a Berlin-based analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace who has researched illicit nuclear networks
for more than 20 years.  ‘Rather Unusual’  “The length of this report on North Korea might appear to
the casual observer as rather unusual, especially given the fact
that IAEA safeguards personnel have not been to North Korea to
do inspection-related work since 2008,” Hibbs wrote  late
yesterday  in an analysis of the 13-page, single-spaced document.
“The agency has received no new firsthand information from its
verification activities in that country to report to member
states.”  The agency did include unofficial, third-hand knowledge in
its North Korea report. By doing so, IAEA inspectors may open
themselves up to questions about why the agency won’t make
assessments in other countries that lack transparency, Hibbs
wrote. The IAEA has repeatedly denied Arab League requests to
assess  Israel ’s nuclear capabilities.  The North Korea report follows similar tactics used by the
agency to punish Syria, which Amano concluded in June was “very
likely” to have been concealing a nuclear reactor. That led a
divided IAEA board of governors to refer the Syrian government
in Damascus to the Security Council, where it faces potential
sanctions over its nuclear work.  Maintaining Pressure  IAEA officials told U.S. diplomats how they intended to use
an unrelated “inspection as a means to keep the pressure on
Damascus,” U.S. Ambassador Glyn Davies wrote in a  February 2010
cable  released by Wikileaks. The director general “had approved
their gambit, even after others in the secretariat had counseled
a less confrontational approach.”  The  Security Council ’s Syrian referral and this month’s
North Korea report are both legal and administrative steps
toward raising pressure on Iran, according to Hibbs. The IAEA
has been looking into Iran’s nuclear work since 2003, when the
country’s program emerged from two decades of secrecy.  “We call on the director general to say what the IAEA
believes to be the case about the possible military dimensions
of  Iran’s nuclear program ,” Davies told journalists in Vienna
today. “Then it will be up to the Board of Governors to draw
conclusions and possibly take action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  