-- 
United First Hires Ex-Gartmore COO, Plans to Grow Staff by 100

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-09-14T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/united-first-hires-ex-gartmore-coo-plans-to-grow-staff-by-100.html
United First Partners , the London-
based brokerage specializing in merger arbitrage, has hired
Brian Mitchell and plans to increase its workforce by as much as
five times in the next two years to grow its business.  Mitchell, the former chief operating officer of defunct
asset manager Gartmore Group Ltd., started this week as head of
business development, said United First founding partner Michael Hadjedj in an interview. The brokerage plans to open its New
York office later this year and may hire as many as 100 people
in London and New York to add to the current staff of 22, he
added.  “Despite difficult market conditions, we have gained
significant market share versus investment banks over the past
18 months,” said Hadjedj, who will move to New York from London
to oversee the inception of the North American operation. “We
are confident that a mixture of our industry expertise and our
in-depth research-driven product will continue to differentiate
us from our competitors.”  European banks including  UBS AG (UBSN) , Barclays Plc and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  have announced more than 70,000 job cuts since
midyear, compared with 42,000 by U.S. peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Layoffs come as banks struggle to boost
profits amid stricter regulation and credit-market stress.  United First was formed in 2009 by Hadjedj, who headed the
special-situations and merger-arbitrage desk at  ICAP Plc (IAP)  in
London. The firm has more than 150 clients and aims to open the
Manhattan office before the end of the year, Hadjedj said.  Buy-Side  Mitchell, who joined as a partner, will help expand United
First beyond event-driven analysis and into more traditional
single-stock research and sales sought by the largest asset
managers, Hadjedj said. Mitchell has almost two decades of
experience in buy-side firms such as Baring Asset Management and
Fleming Investment Management, according to Bloomberg data.  Mitchell left Gartmore after  Henderson Group Plc (HGG)  completed
its acquisition of the London-based  money manager  earlier this
year.  United First has also hired Olivier Saez, an investment
banker from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , to boost its special-
situations research team to six, and Nicolas Lyle, an analyst
who covered real-estate stocks at HSBC until this year, Hadjedj
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  