-- 
United Technologies Officials Say No Plan to Sell Rocketdyne

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-09-14T23:37:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/united-technologies-officials-say-no-plan-for-rocketdyne-sale.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  has no
plans to sell or spin off  Pratt & Whitney  Rocketdyne, the unit
that builds rocket engines for civilian and military missions,
according to one of the company’s top executives.  “Right now, there is no plan,” to sell or spin off
Rocketdyne, David Hess, president of Pratt & Whitney, the United
Technologies division that includes Rocketdyne, said in a short
interview after a media event in  Washington . “We look at our
entire portfolio every day and obviously, given some of the
uncertainty in space right now, we look at Rocketdyne and
everything else.”  Rocketdyne’s president, Jim Maser, also downplayed reports
of potential buyer interest, saying United Technologies, based
in Hartford,  Connecticut , is constantly reviewing strategic
options such as acquisitions, divestitures and partnerships.  “I don’t think those options ever really change over
time,” Maser said in a separate interview in Washington.
“Within United Technologies, I would say at any given time,
some portion of their business is going to be for sale for the
right price, so I think at any given point in time, we would
fall into that category.”  Reports of a possible sale surfaced in July after NASA’s
final space shuttle mission. Rocketdyne, which makes liquid-
fueled rocket propulsion systems, receives about 60 percent of
its revenue from the space agency, Maser said. The company this
summer laid off about 250 employees in part because of
uncertainty in the space program, he said.  Heavy-Lift Rocket  Maser said inquires from potential buyers were
“exploratory,” and would not identify which companies
expressed an interest.  The comments came the same day  NASA  announced the design
for a new heavy-lift rocket, called the Space Launch System --
the biggest since the Saturn V rocket carried Apollo astronauts
to the moon. The agency plans a competition to develop the
boosters.  United Technologies rose $1.23, or 1.7 percent, to $73.68
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  