-- 
Turntable.fm Is in Talks With Music Labels for Licensing Deal

-- B y   A r i   L e v y ,   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   E m i l y   C h a n g
-- 
2011-09-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/turntable-fm-says-web-music-startup-is-in-talks-with-major-record-labels.html
Turntable.fm , a social-media site
that lets people share songs with friends and other Web users,
is in talks with the four major record labels about a licensing
deal, Chief Executive Officer Billy Chasen said.  The New York-based startup is seeking an agreement that
will allow users to legally stream music in the U.S. and abroad,
Chasen said yesterday in an interview on “Bloomberg West.” The
company is in discussions with  Universal Music Group , EMI Group,
 Sony Music Entertainment  and Warner Music Group, as well as
Merlin BV, which represents independent labels.  “We want to grow internationally,” Chasen said. “Part of
that is talking with all the labels and getting deals and
licenses in place.”  Turntable.fm is competing for listeners with Internet-radio
provider Pandora Media Inc. and European music service Spotify
Ltd. Pandora, which held an initial public offering in June, is
shut out from overseas markets because it operates under the
Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which only provides a license
for streaming music in the U.S. After building its base in
 Europe , Spotify began accepting U.S. users in July, following
more than a year of negotiations with  record companies .  Turntable is trying to create a type of licensing agreement
that hasn’t been done before, Chasen said. He didn’t say if it
would pay per song streamed or share revenue with the labels.
The company currently pays a fee for each stream.  ‘Super Eager’  “Both sides are super eager to get this done, and we’re
getting closer,” Chasen said. “We take very seriously the
music labels and publishers, and we want to make sure they’re
with us.”  Liz Young , a spokeswoman for Sony Music, declined to
comment, as did  Peter Lofrumento  at  Universal Music . Warner
Music’s Will Tanous and EMI’s Dylan Jones didn’t immediately
return messages seeking comment. A message left after hours at
Merlin’s  London  office also wasn’t immediately returned.  Turntable debuted earlier this year and remains smaller
than its competitors. The service, which requires users to log
in using their Facebook Inc. accounts, has about 600,000 users.
That compares with more than 100 million for Oakland,
California-based Pandora.  Spotify , based in London, reached  1
million  subscribers in March, with millions more using an
advertising-supported version.  Turntable said yesterday that it raised $7 million from
investors led by Union Square Ventures, whose managing partner,
Fred Wilson, is joining the company’s board. Other investors
include First Round Capital, Polaris Venture Partners and
Benchmark Capital, as well as Troy Carter, Lady Gaga’s manager,
and Guy Oseary, who founded Maverick Records with Madonna.  Turntable also  released  a free mobile version of its
software for Apple Inc.’s iPhone yesterday. The computer version
of Turntable.fm required Adobe Systems Inc.’s Flash, a program
that doesn’t work on the iPhone and iPad mobile devices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Chang in San Francisco at 
 echang68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  