-- 
Verizon CFO Says Storm, Strike Cost as Much as $250 Million

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-09-14T20:17:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/verizon-cfo-says-strike-followed-by-storms-cost-as-much-as-250-million.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, said storms including
Hurricane Irene that followed a strike by some employees have
cost it as much as $250 million this quarter.  “The catastrophic event has really taken an impact,” said
Verizon Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo today at a Bank of
America Corp. conference in  Beverly Hills ,  California , referring
to the storm that followed an August strike by workers.
“Putting that all together, where we stand today we are two to
three weeks from getting the repair and maintenance flows back
to normal.”  About 45,000 of the New York-based company’s employees went
on strike between Aug. 7 and Aug. 22. Days after they returned,
a backlog in cable installations and repairs was magnified by
 Hurricane Irene  and Tropical Storm Lee. The employees were
working overtime with three times the normal repair load, Shammo
said. The company is still managing a backlog of about 90 days
for installations.  Verizon continues to negotiate with the employees who are
represented by the  Communications Workers of America  and
 International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers  unions.  AT&T, T-Mobile  Shammo also said the government’s move to block the $39
billion bid by AT&T Inc., the biggest U.S. phone carrier and
second-largest wireless operator, for Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-
Mobile USA shows the difficulty for companies in acquiring
spectrum, and a need for reform. The proposed deal would allow
AT&T to surpass  Verizon Wireless  as the No. 1 U.S. mobile
operator.  “If you’re not going to allow a carrier who needs spectrum
to acquire that spectrum that is an industry issue,” he said
“That really applies to all of us.”  Verizon is set to run out of spectrum -- the government-
licensed radio frequencies used in wireless communications -- in
2015, and is “always looking” for a way to acquire more, he
said.  The company rose 10 cents to $35.60 at 4:02 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares are little
changed this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  