-- 
Villepin Wins French Appeals Court Ruling in Clearstream Affair

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-14T08:16:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/villepin-wins-french-appeals-court-ruling-in-clearstream-affair.html
Former French Prime Minister
Dominique de Villepin was cleared over his role in a slander
campaign waged in part against then-presidential hopeful  Nicolas Sarkozy .  A Paris appeals court upheld a 2010 decision clearing the
politician in the so-called Clearstream affair. The scandal,
involving fake accounts linked to hundreds of business leaders,
unfolded as Villepin vied with Sarkozy to succeed President
 Jacques Chirac  when they served in his cabinet.  The verdict comes less than a year before the first French
presidential election since Sarkozy’s 2007 victory. Sarkozy, 56,
triumphed over Villepin, 57, for their party’s nomination five
years ago. Sarkozy is expected to announce his re-election
campaign for the next presidential vote in May 2012. Villepin
formed a breakaway political group after the lower-court victory
and is mulling running for president.  “I salute the independence of our justice system which was
able to resist political pressure,” Villepin said to reporters
as he left the courtroom. “I want to believe that this decision
will make our democracy less vulnerable to calumny and rumor.”  More than a hundred people including business leaders,
politicians and celebrities were linked to the list of fake
accounts supposedly held at Luxembourg-based Clearstream
International SA. The list, which surfaced in 2004, was leaked
to a French judge investigating bribery allegations linked to a
1991 frigate sale to  Taiwan .  The court today partially upheld convictions against former
European Aeronautic Defence and Space Co. executive Jean-Louis Gergorin and mathematician Imad Lahoud, and sentenced them to
three years in prison. Gergorin must serve six months and Lahoud
18 months behind bars, with the remainder of their sentences
being suspended.  Gergorin’s lawyer Paul-Albert Iweins told reporters that
he’s considering further appeals.  “I have emerged from this ordeal stronger and more
determined than ever to serve the French people,” Villepin said
today.  A spokesman for Sarkozy said he had no comment on today’s
verdict.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 