-- 
Wal-Mart Announces Multibillion Dollar Women’s Initiative

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z   a 1 n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-09-14T20:05:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/wal-mart-to-announce-multibillion-dollar-women-s-initiative.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, today unveiled a multibillion-dollar women’s
initiative, three months after winning dismissal of a gender-
bias case from the U.S. Supreme Court.  The plan includes buying $20 billion of products from U.S.
female-owned businesses in the next five years and training
women to work in factories and retail around the globe. The
world’s largest private employer also will provide more than
$100 million in grants to non-profit organizations aiding women.  Wal-Mart will ask some companies such as ad agencies it
works with to hire and promote more women, said Deisha Galberth,
a spokeswoman. The move mirrors programs the retailer has
previously announced, including efforts to buy more food from
farmers located near its stores.  “We’re stepping up our efforts to help educate, source
from and open markets for women around the world,” Chief
Executive Officer  Mike Duke  said in a statement.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , rose 61 cents to
$52.20 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares have fallen 3.2 percent this year.  The U.S. Supreme Court in June rejected an effort on behalf
of as many as 1 million female workers to sue Wal-Mart for
discrimination. Filed in 2001, the suit aimed to cover every
woman who worked at the retailer’s Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club’s
stores at any point since December 1998, including those not
hired until years after the suit was filed.  Gender Discrimination  The justices said the lawyers pressing the case failed to
point to a common corporate policy that led to gender
discrimination against workers at thousands of stores across the
country.  Wal-Mart may still face smaller gender discrimination
lawsuits in lower courts and claims with the U.S. Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission.  “The Wal-Mart public-relations machine is spinning
overtime on this,” said  Brian Sozzi , an analyst at Wall Street
Strategies in New York. “They are doing their best job to try
and get out in front of any potential future lawsuits, while at
the same time appear better in the cases remaining.” Sozzi
recommends holding the shares.  In a conference call today with reporters Sarah Thorn, a
company spokeswoman, said increased support for women-owned
suppliers wasn’t related to the lawsuit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  