-- 
Watson, Sandoz Pay $145 Million to Settle Drug-Price Case

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-09-15T12:09:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/watson-pharmaceuticals-will-pay-79-million-to-settle-lawsuit.html
Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , the
generic-drug maker, will pay $79 million and  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s
Sandoz unit will pay $66 million to resolve claims they
defrauded U.S. and state governments by causing Medicaid to
overpay for drugs.  Both lawsuits were filed under the U.S. False Claims Act by
Ven-A-Care of the Florida Keys Inc., a specialty pharmacy. The
settlements resolved portions of the U.S. false claims cases and
similar claims by various states. The law allows whistle-blowers
to file on behalf of the government and share in any recovery.  Ven-A-Care has settled at least 18 lawsuits since 2000 that
have allowed state and federal governments to collect at least
$2.2 billion. Ven-A-Care has reaped more than $380 million in
whistle-blower fees during that period. James Breen, an attorney
for Ven-A-Care, declined to comment.  The settlements by Watson and Sandoz were filed yesterday
in federal court in  Boston , where U.S. District Judge Patti Saris is overseeing the so-called Average Wholesale Price
litigation against drugmakers.  Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for Parsippany, New Jersey-based
Watson, declined to comment. He referred to the company’s last
annual report, filed in February, that said the company had
reached a settlement with Ven-A-Care for $79 million in
December.  The claims were “unfounded,” and Sandoz settled “to end
the uncertainty of protracted litigation,”  Eric Althoff , a
spokesman for Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis, said in an e-
mail. “Sandoz is committed to conducting business in compliance
with all applicable laws and regulations, as well as our own
high ethical standards,” he said.  The case is In Re Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale
Price Litigation, MDL No. 1456, U.S. District Court, District of
 Massachusetts .  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  