-- 
White House Seeking to Trim $2.1 Billion in Medicaid Waste

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-09-14T17:52:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/white-house-seeking-to-trim-2-1-billion-in-medicaid-waste-1-.html
The Obama administration is
targeting waste in government programs and announced a move to
squeeze $2.1 billion out of the Medicaid program over the next
five years by tracking down improper payments and fraud.  “As long as there’s waste and fraud in government, serious
waste and fraud, people lose confidence in the ability of their
government to do their job for them,” Vice President  Joe Biden 
said at the beginning of a Cabinet meeting today on the plan.  The effort to find savings in Medicaid, the federal-state
health program for the poor, relies on contractors to find
waste. That system recovered almost $670 million so far this
year from the health insurance system for the elderly and
disabled, according to an administration statement.  Biden announced the plan today at meeting with Jack Lew,
White House budget director, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, Labor Secretary Hilda Solis, and Health and Human
Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius .  Federal spending is under scrutiny in Congress and
President  Barack Obama  has ordered his Cabinet officials to take
steps to reduce some of the $110 billion in improper or
erroneous payments made by the government last year.  Under Scrutiny  Lew said that because of the weak economy “every dollar we
spend is going to have to be very carefully scrutinized.”  The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
accounted for the largest portion of improper payments in fiscal
2010, amounting to $70.4 billion last fiscal year, according to
April testimony to a House panel by Kay Daly, the Government
Accountability Office’s director of financial management and
assurance.  Patrick Burns , a spokesman for  Taxpayers Against Fraud , a
Washington-based advocacy group that helps whistleblowers and
their lawyers pursue fraud cases, said that the federal
government should have clamped down on wasteful Medicare and
Medicaid payments far sooner.  “HHS is now ripped and ready for 1980,” Burns said. “You
have to wonder what the old management was doing under Reagan,
Clinton and Bush.”  Contractors such as Las Vegas-based HealthDataInsights and
 Canada ’s CGI Group Inc. pursue improperly disbursed Medicare
payments and collect fees ranging from 9 percent to 12.5 percent
of the money they recover.  Spreading Effort  Similar efforts are under way at the Labor Department to
cut erroneous payments of jobless benefits and at  Homeland
Security  to cut costs.  “There’s never been a worse time to try and steal from
Medicare and Medicaid,” Sebelius said at the meeting. She said
that investigators have new tools to find fraud and have built
more effective models to track waste.  According to administration figures, the federal government
has shrunk contract spending for the first time in 13 years,
identified $3 billion in cost reductions in information
technology projects across government, worked to help agencies
avoid $4 billion in payment errors last year and tripled the
amount of recoveries of improper payments to vendors.  Still, Biden said that states are “way behind the curve”
when it comes to issuing  unemployment insurance . He said that
checks are still being sent to people in prison and people who
have died.  “There’s a lot of people hurting, they’re hurting very,
very badly,” he said, referring to people who have lost their
jobs and need the assistance. “An awful of money is being
wasted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  