-- 
European Officials Not Living Up to Euro Commitment, World Bank Chief Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-09-14T15:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/world-bank-s-zoellick-says-euro-officials-must-act-responsibly.html
European policy makers are not
living up to their commitment to the euro as the region’s debt
crisis threatens to spread, World Bank President  Robert Zoellick 
said.  “It is not responsible for the Eurozone to pledge fealty
to a monetary union without facing up to either a fiscal union
that would make monetary union workable or accepting the
consequences for uncompetitive, debt-burdened members,”
Zoellick said in prepared remarks for a speech at George
Washington University today. “We must all be responsible
stakeholders now,” he said.  After almost two years combating the sovereign debt crisis
focused on Greece, Ireland and Portugal, European policy makers
have yet to reassure investors demanding higher yields from
nations such as Spain and Italy.  Finance ministers from  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India , China and
South Africa plan to meet in Washington on Sept. 22 to discuss
ways to help  Europe , and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner
is expected to urge his European counterparts to step up their
crisis-fighting efforts when he meets with them this week.  Zoellick also took a swipe at the U.S. for insufficiently
addressing “fundamental issues such as unsustainable growth in
entitlement spending, the need for a pro-growth tax system and a
stalled trade policy.”  Congress has yet to agree on a 10-year plan to cut at least
$1.5 trillion in spending following a last-minute agreement to
raise the U.S. federal debt ceiling last month.  Drag Down Economy  The attitudes of officials in Europe, the U.S. and  Japan ,
which is resisting changes to its economic model, may drag down
the global economy, said Zoellick, a former U.S. trade
representative under President George W. Bush. The officials
“have procrastinated for too long on taking the difficult
decisions,” he said.  Developed economies are not bound for an “inevitable
decline” while Brazil,  China , India, Russia,  South Korea  and
Indonesia alone are forecast to account for more than half of
the world’s economic growth by 2025, Zoellick said.  “With credible and definitely possible action -- not just
short-term fixes -- on debt and deficits to restore confidence,
and with a focus on structural and tax reforms to spur private
sector growth, boost productivity, and create jobs, advanced
economies can turn around and power ahead,” he said.  China, which today already consumes half of the world’s
cement and a third of the world’s eggs, also needs to be a
“responsible stakeholder” in an interdependent global economy,
Zoellick said.  “We need China to be a responsible trading partner,” he
said. The world’s second-largest economy should also “move
toward a responsible exchange rate system,” and “offer
intellectual property responsible protection” while making
“responsible investments” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  