-- 
Yahoo Investor Third Point Seeking Bigger Stake, Exit of Chairman Bostock

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-09-14T20:09:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/yahoo-investor-third-point-to-seek-u-s-regulatory-approval-to-raise-stake.html
Yahoo! Inc. investor  Third Point 
LLC ramped up pressure on the company’s board, saying it may add
to its 5.2 percent stake and reiterating a demand that Chairman
Roy Bostock step down.  Daniel Loeb , chief executive officer of Third Point, said
he’d seek U.S. approval to buy more stock and criticized
Bostock’s oversight of the company in a letter today to Yahoo
co-founder  Jerry Yang , according to a regulatory  filing .  “We urge you to do the right thing for all Yahoo
shareholders,” Loeb said in the letter to Yang. “We are
prepared to support you and present you with suggestions on
candidates who could help bring Yahoo back to its rightful place
among the world’s top digital media and technology companies.”  Loeb said he told Bostock and Yang in a Sept. 12 phone
conversation that he planned to “pursue whatever efforts were
necessary to remove Mr. Bostock from the board,” according to
the filing. The dialogue ended when “Bostock terminated the
call,” Loeb said.  Bostock fired Yahoo CEO  Carol Bartz  by phone last week
after less than three years on the job. Bartz was hired to help
Yahoo revive the Web portal’s sales growth and boost its shares
after the 2008 decision to reject a $47.5 billion offer from
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   Director Slate  Third Point on Sept. 8 raised its stake in the company to
5.2 percent and said it was “prepared to propose a slate of
directors at the company’s annual meeting next year should it
become necessary,” according to a filing that day.  Bostock didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.
Charles Sipkins, a spokesman for the board, declined to comment
beyond his response to the filing last week.  “The Yahoo board recognizes the critical challenges facing
the company and appreciates constructive input from all
shareholders,” Sipkins said in a Sept. 8 statement.  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , rose 30 cents, or
2.1 percent, to $14.55 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. The shares have dropped 13 percent this year.  Bostock has been embattled from his first day as Yahoo
chairman. On Feb. 1, 2008, Microsoft announced a $31 a share, or
$44.6 billion, offer for the company. While Yang, who was then
CEO, handled much of the negotiations with Microsoft, it was
Bostock who co-signed a June 12 letter announcing that takeover
talks were over and saying Yahoo had better prospects going it
alone. They termed Microsoft’s bid, though sweetened to $33 a
share, or $47.5 billion, “not in the best interests of Yahoo
stockholders.”  Icahn Proxy Fight  Investor  Carl Icahn , who bought 59 million shares of Yahoo
that May, said Yang and other directors were a “self-
destructive doomsday machine” and vowed a proxy battle to
change the board’s makeup.  Yahoo reached an accord with Icahn in July 2008, giving him
three board seats and expanding the number of directors from
eight to 11. Icahn sold the last of his Yahoo stake in the third
quarter of 2010. He left the Yahoo board in 2009, and the other
two Icahn representatives departed last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  