-- 
Yahoo’s Board Said to Meet to Weigh Options After CEO Carol Bartz’s Ouster

-- B y   T o m   G i l e s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-09-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/yahoo-s-board-said-to-meet-to-weigh-options-after-bartz-s-ouster.html
Yahoo! Inc.’s board is scheduled to
meet today to weigh its options after  Carol Bartz  was ousted
last week following less than three years at the helm, a person
with knowledge of the matter said.  Investment bank Allen & Co. will outline various scenarios
for Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo, said the person, who
requested anonymity because the meeting is private. The board,
led by Chairman Roy Bostock, will also decide whether to hire
Allen & Co. to explore those options, and it will discuss the
search for Bartz’s successor, the person said.  Yahoo, leaderless and beset by slumping shares and falling
revenue, is vulnerable to a takeover from private-equity
investors, said Di Zhou, an analyst at  Thornburg Investment
Management  in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico . A buyer could sell shares in
some of Yahoo’s Asian assets and use proceeds to take the rest
of the company private, she said last week.  “A private-equity buyer could seek to unlock the value of
the Asian assets and leverage up the core of Yahoo, which
continues to generate  cash flow  despite competitive and
operational challenges,” analysts at Deutsche Bank Securities
Inc. wrote in a research report last week.  Kim Rubey , a spokeswoman for Yahoo, declined to comment.  Another possible outcome involves a tie-up with  AOL Inc. (AOL) ,
where CEO  Tim Armstrong  is talking with advisers to gauge
Yahoo’s interest in combining the companies, two people familiar
with the matter said last week.  Fresh Interest?  Armstrong had been interested in a merger with Yahoo last
year and was rebuffed while Bartz was at the helm, one person
said. Her departure prompted him to reconsider the option, and,
under one scenario now being considered, Yahoo would acquire AOL
and Armstrong would become CEO of the combined company, the
person said.  Yahoo is unlikely to be interested in a deal for New York-
based AOL at this time, a person familiar with the company’s
thinking said last week.  Yahoo’s directors also are under pressure from investors
such as Third Point LLC, which urged the board to resign last
week after buying a 5.2 percent stake. The investment firm said
directors erred in spurning a takeover bid from Microsoft Corp.
and hired a chief executive officer who wasn’t up to the job.  The “board of directors has made a number of decisions
that have directly harmed the company and resulted in a stock
price far below the company’s intrinsic value,” New York-based
Third Point said in a filing.  Yahoo’s board meeting was previously  reported  by the
AllThingsDigital technology blog.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Giles  in  San Francisco  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 