-- 
Yankees Pitcher Mariano Rivera Collects 600th Save, One Shy of MLB Record

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-14T10:59:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/yankees-pitcher-mariano-rivera-collects-600th-save-one-shy-of-mlb-record.html
Mariano Rivera  collected his 600th
career save in the  New York Yankees ’ 3-2 win over the  Seattle
Mariners .  Rivera, 41, is one save shy of Trevor Hoffman’s  record 
after becoming the second pitcher in  Major League Baseball  to
reach the milestone.  Rivera has spent his entire 17-year major league career
with the Yankees while establishing himself as the sport’s
premier closer. Rivera has 41 saves this season, his eighth with
at least 40 saves. He said he wasn’t thinking about getting the
record.  “Maybe later on after I retire, but right now I’m not
focused on that,” Rivera said, according to the  Associated
Press . “I’m not that type of guy. I’m a team player. I tell you
guys many times and I’ll continue to tell you, it doesn’t depend
on myself. It depends on my teammates giving me the opportunity
to be able to pitch.”  The 12-time All-Star has averaged 40 saves a year since
moving into  New York ’s closer role in 1997 and is one of two
relievers with  two 50-save seasons . In helping the Yankees win
five  World Series titles , he’s also totaled a record 42
postseason saves, more than twice as many as any other pitcher
and 38 more than Hoffman, who retired in January.  “The best ever. I keep saying the same thing over and over
every time I talk about Mo, but it’s true,”  Jorge Posada , who
spent more than 15 years catching for Rivera, told  MLB.com
before last night’s win.  “There’s nobody who’s ever going to
get close to what he’s been able to achieve.”  After Rivera and Hoffman, no other pitchers have even
reached the 500-save milestone. Lee Smith ranks third with 478,
while John Franco and Billy Wagner are the only other relievers
to top 400 saves.  Two-Year Deal  Since Rivera posted a 3.15 earned run average in 2007 with
30 saves -- his second-fewest as a closer -- he’s logged a 1.85
ERA over the past four seasons. Rivera has one season remaining
on the two-year, $30 million contract he signed with the Yankees
during the offseason.  Rivera last night relieved David Robertson for the final
inning at Safeco Field in  Seattle . He gave up a one-out single
to Ichiro Suzuki and struck out Wily Mo Pena and Kyle Seager
before Suzuki was caught trying to steal second base to end the
game.  The win takes New York to 90-57, four games ahead of the
 Boston   Red Sox  atop the American League East division.  Tim Wakefield , 45, got his 200th career win as the Red Sox
routed the Toronto Blue Jays 18-6 at Fenway Park in Boston last
night. Dustin Pedroia hit two home runs as the Red Sox ended a
five-game losing streak to improve to 86-61, four games ahead of
the Tampa Bay Rays in the AL wildcard standings.  “I’m very grateful that I’ve been able to wear this
uniform for as long as I have and reached a milestone that I
thought I’d never reach,” Wakefield told reporters.  Wakefield gave up five runs on six hits in six innings,
while striking out six.  ‘Gift From God’  Rivera, the son of a Panamanian fisherman, has been
successful while predominantly throwing two pitches -- a sinker
and a bat-breaking cut fastball, which he discovered in a 1997
warm-up session and has called a  gift from God .  “It was more about location than anything with him,” said
Posada, who caught Rivera for more than 15 years dating back to
their time in the Yankees’ minor-league system. “He made it
really simple for me. Cutter, sinker, make sure the location is
there and go to work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  