-- 
Yuan Advances on China’s Resilience, Easing Europe Debt Crisis

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-09-14T09:28:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/yuan-advances-on-china-s-resilience-easing-europe-debt-crisis.html
China ’s yuan strengthened for the
first time in three days, supported by demand from investors
fleeing a U.S. economic slowdown and  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The yuan is the only currency among the biggest emerging-
nations to strengthen against the dollar this quarter and
government data in the past week showed the nation’s exports
grew 24.5 percent in August from a year earlier. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday she’s “very
optimistic” that Finland’s demands for special collateral as
part of a Greek bailout package will be met, easing default
speculation that boosted demand for dollars.  “Investors see the yuan as a better investment option as
China’s economic growth remains strong despite the turbulence,”
said Banny Lam, an economist in Hong Kong at CCB International
Securities, a unit of China’s second-biggest lender. “Merkel’s
comments also gave people hope that  Greece  will not default on
its debt.”  The yuan gained 0.04 percent to close at 6.3964 per dollar
in Shanghai, after climbing as much as 0.12 percent, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The People’s Bank of
China set the daily reference rate 0.06 percent stronger today,
boosting it for the first time in three days. The currency  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan slipped 0.09
percent to 6.3910 per dollar. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards fell 0.23 percent to 6.3455, losing 0.83 percent in
three days. The premium to the onshore spot rate was 0.8 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s still some risk aversion in the offshore market
and some traders are stopping losses after getting hit in the
past few days,” said Carlos Cheung, a Hong Kong-based foreign-
exchange dealer at Bank of Communications Ltd.  Growth, Inflation  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said today Europe’s debt crisis needs to
be contained and global economies should address their debt and
deficit problems. China’s economy is “generally in good shape”
and inflation in the country is generally controllable, he said
at the World Economic Forum in Dalian, China.  Inflation slowed to 6.2 percent in August from a three-year
high of 6.5 percent in July, official figures show. The Asian
Development Bank lowered its 2011 economic growth forecast for
China to 9.3 percent from an April estimate of 9.6 percent,
according to a report released today. Its projection for  Asia 
excluding  Japan  was cut to 7.5 percent from 7.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  