-- 
Zloty Slides to 26-Month Low, Bonds Drop on Europe’s Debt Crisis

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-14T15:59:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-14/zloty-declines-and-polish-bond-yields-rise-on-european-crisis.html
The zloty slid to a 26-month low
against the euro and bond yields climbed on concern  Europe ’s
debt crisis may slow Poland’s growth.  The zloty depreciated 1 percent to 4.3716 per euro as of
5:50 p.m. in Warsaw, the weakest level since July 2009. The
yield on notes due April 2016 rose 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 5.12 percent, a four-week high.  China ’s Premier Wen Jiabao signaled developed nations
should cut deficits and create jobs rather than relying on his
country to bail out the world economy. Finance ministers from
Brazil, Russia, India, China and  South Africa , the so-called
BRICS nations, will meet next week to discuss Europe’s debt
crisis. Germany remains opposed to joint euro-area bonds as a
means of fighting the debt crisis, Foreign Minister  Guido
Westerwelle  said.  “The market remains cautious on Europe and risk in
general,” said Baron Chan, foreign-currency strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in London. “We may get a coordinated
action over the weekend, which may act to stabilize the market
at the current level.”  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will urge European
governments to step up their crisis-fighting efforts when he
meets officials from the region in Wroclaw, Poland, on Sept. 16
and 17, a euro-area official said on condition of anonymity.  Poland is unlikely to repeat its “stellar outperformance”
from 2009 because it lacks leeway to loosen fiscal policy,
Citigroup Inc. economists wrote in a note dated yesterday
following meetings in Warsaw. The  Finance Ministry  is in a
“denial phase” playing down the impact of economic slowdown in
the euro area on its finances, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  