-- 
‘Glaring’ Risks for World Economy: Rothschild

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-03T07:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/-glaring-risks-ahead-for-world-economy-rothschild.html
Risks to the world’s economy are
“glaring and global,” with growth likely to suffer as
governments withdraw fiscal and monetary support, according to
 Jacob Rothschild , chairman of  RIT Capital Partners Plc. (RCP)   The U.S. economic recovery is “fragile,” European
monetary union “in doubt” and  Japan  is facing a “monumental”
challenge following the earthquake earlier this year, Rothschild
said in a statement to shareholders today. Inflation is
threatening growth in emerging economies, he said.  “The risks ahead are glaring and global,” the 75 year-old
British financier said in the statement. “It is likely that the
withdrawal of the fiscal and monetary stimuli which will surely
come soon will have an impact on global growth: indeed there is
already evidence of some slowing down” since March.  Investment banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS
AG have cut their estimates for global growth as unemployment in
the U.S. remains high,  oil prices  threaten to choke the recovery
and  Europe ’s debt problems undermine investor confidence. The
MSCI World Index of stocks is down 0.8 percent to 1,324.91
points since March 31.  Rothschild said the fund is reducing its investments in oil
and gold, which were key drivers of its performance in 2010,
without giving specific details. It increased its liquidity and
is building stakes in some “frontier markets” with
characteristics similar to the so-called BRIC economies some
years ago, he said.  RIT’s net assets climbed 9.3 percent to 1.98 billion pounds
($3.24 billion) in the 12 months to March 31, the fund said in
the statement. That compares with a 5.2 percent rise in the  MSCI
World (MXWO)  Index and a 5.4 percent climb in the FTSE All-Share Index,
it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 