-- 
‘Intellectual Meat Market’ Makes Washington Long Odds for Single Women

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-06-03T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/-intellectual-meat-market-makes-washington-long-odds-for-women.html
Christy McConville has some advice
for women in  Washington  who are frustrated with the dating scene
in the nation’s capital: Leave town.  The former  District of Columbia  resident did just that last
year when she relocated to  Pasadena ,  California , after spending
almost a decade in Washington. She said it’s now much easier to
find single men her age, and she relishes male suitors inquiring
about her hobbies rather than her resume.  Washingtonians are “really sort of dating their jobs,”
said McConville, 34, who works in political communications.
“It’s sort of like an intellectual meat market.”  For women like McConville, it’s not just the fixation on
work, it’s the odds: Washington has the highest ratio of women
to men compared with all 50 states -- 112 females for every 100
males, Census Bureau figures show. Among residents between ages
20 and 39 in the city of 601,723, women outnumber men by 13,716,
up from about 6,000 a decade ago, according to census data.  Speed-dating events for singles with professional degrees
sell about 50 percent more tickets here than in most other U.S.
cities, according to the head of one social networking group.
People marry so late in life that Washington has more
infertility experts than most places, said one sociologist.  Job Magnet  An influx of young, female professionals helps explain the
gender imbalance, according to  William Frey , a senior fellow and
demographer at the  Brookings Institution .  “Young women are more likely to come into the District
than young men,” Frey said, noting that federal agencies and
nonprofit institutions often hire young college graduates, and
women make up the majority of them.  That means Washington is a target-rich town for men, said
Vivek Subramarian. The 32-year-old education consultant, who
lives in the Columbia Heights neighborhood, said he’ll flirt
anywhere, including on the subway.  “Dating, in general, is pretty much ours to lose,”
Subramarian, who has lived in New York, Seoul and  Shanghai , said
while scanning patrons at a bar on U Street, a popular strip for
people his age. “It’s trial and error for pickup lines.”  The disproportionate number of females in Washington, where
the population is 50.7 percent black, is also influenced by
older women outnumbering older men.  “Shares of women in the population get higher as you move
to older age cohorts, but that’s because women live longer than
men on average,” said Peter Tatian, a researcher at the Urban
Institute’s Metropolitan Housing and Communities Policy Center.  Getting Younger  Yet census figures show Washington’s population became
younger over the last decade: With a median age of 33.8, it’s
tied with  Alaska  as the nation’s third youngest, compared with
37.2 for the U.S. as a whole.  The similarities with the largest U.S. state by area end
there: Alaska has the best odds for women, with 0.92 for every
man, the census shows.  Washington’s population boost from recent college
graduates, along with the inflow of professionals, is feeding
the demand to meet new people, said Sam Yagan, co-founder and
chief executive officer of OkCupid, an online-dating website
owned by Match.com.  The website has 50,000 active members in Washington, the
most per capita of any U.S. city, Yagan said.  Looking for Meaning  In a town where more than a quarter of the population --
26.4 percent -- has a graduate or advanced degree, potential
dates are often preoccupied with careers and seek partners with
similar professional status.  “The upside about Washington is probably this allure to be
in the nation’s capital, to have a job that has more meaning
than many other places,” said  C. Margaret Hall , a sociology
professor at  Georgetown University . “It’s difficult, I think,
to build relationships here.”  Speed-dating events that focus on singles with academic
credentials such as an M.B.A. or law degree sell one-and-a-half
times more tickets than in other U.S. cities, said Michael
Karlan, founder of Professionals in the City, a social
networking group.  The company organizes gatherings where men and women have
three to five minutes to talk to each other before moving on to
the next person. Participants later get a chance to mingle and
to get in touch through a website.  ‘Workaholics’  Lisa Hough, attending her first speed-dating event, said
she has encountered several men who are “workaholics” since
moving from  West Virginia  last year. Hough, 24, an engineer for
a construction company, asks them what they’re up to for the
weekend, only to be told the same thing: working.  “It’s very much, ‘I have all these things I need to
accomplish,’” she said while awaiting the start of the event at
a downtown bar.  Men don’t have a monopoly in focusing on work. Professional
demands among women can also make them more difficult to date,
said 31-year-old Matt Courtney, who attended the event.  “I hear from a lot of guys that the women here are very
smart, which is a good thing,” said Courtney, who lives in
nearby Reston, Virginia. They also have “extremely high
standards.”  Traditional ways of meeting people through family, friends
and community activities are less common here, said Barry
McCarthy, a sociology professor at American University.  Washington is different, said McCarthy, co-author of
“Discovering Your Couple Sexual Style.” For one thing, people
tend to put off marriage.  More Infertility Experts  The city “has more infertility experts per capita than
most places, and it’s because of late marriages and late child
bearing,” he said. “There’s a stigma against early marriage
among professional people.”  There’s apparently no taboo against trying pick-up lines in
the unlikeliest locations.  “I once had a guy try to pick me up at Costco,” said
Heather May, 25, a Washington resident. “He asked me if I was
from around here because I looked tan. It actually almost
worked. I’m so pale, I love being told I look tan.”  May, a marketer for a  law firm , summed up single men here:
“They’re either contractors or they’re government workers.”  Jamia Wilson has noted the shallow pool. While the 30-year-
old self-described “flower child” said she had no problems
dating during her 12 years in Washington, she didn’t fit the
power-couple image sought by many of her dates.  She moved to the East Village in  New York , where she’s been
seeing a musician for three years and got engaged to him in May.
Reminiscing with a friend from her Washington years recently
made her realize how small the dating world is in the capital of
the globe’s largest economy.  “We talked about guys that we dated over drinks one
night,” she said, “and realized we overlapped with five
different people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark
McQuillan at   mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  