-- 
Macau as Leisure Destination Still 10 Years Off, MGM China Says

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-06-03T21:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/macau-as-leisure-destination-still-10-years-off-mgm-china-says.html
Macau’s vision of transforming itself
from  Asia ’s gambling capital into a Las Vegas-style destination
with broader appeal is at least a decade off, MGM China Holdings
Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Grant Bowie said.  Gambling would still account for 85 percent of sales for
MGM China 10 years from now, compared with more than 95 percent
today, Bowie said in a June 2 interview in Macau. That compares
with Las Vegas, where non-casino operations generate more than
half of sales for MGM China’s parent.  Billionaire  Kirk Kerkorian ’s  MGM Resorts International (MGM) 
needed “25 to 30 years to achieve that scale” in Las Vegas,
said Bowie, the day before his company started trading on the
Hong Kong stock exchange following a $1.5 billion initial public
offering. “If in the future we could do 15 percent, we would be
pretty comfortable with that” in Macau, he said.  MGM China’s proposed development on Macau’s Cotai Strip
will be key to its goal of deriving more income from other parts
of the business such as hotel rooms and renting out store space,
Bowie said. The planned 3 million square-foot property is part
of the company’s bid to take advantage of the former Portuguese
colony’s surging  casino gambling revenue , which grew 58 percent
last year to 188 billion patacas ($23.5 billion), about four
times that of the  Las Vegas  Strip.  Macau must address labor and land shortages and inadequate
infrastructure, and attract guests willing to stay longer, Bowie
said.  40 Percent Growth  Gambling will dominate sales at casino operators for
several more years, said Huei Suen Ng, a Hong Kong-based
gambling and consumer analyst at CLSA Asia Pacific Markets.  “People do not go to Macau for non-gaming activities,”
she said. “It needs more facilities in terms of hotel rooms and
infrastructure,” including a connection to China’s high-speed
rail network and a bridge to Hong Kong, she said.  MGM China, the first $1 billion-plus IPO in Hong Kong to
price at the top of its range since AIA Group Ltd. in October,
yesterday rose 1.8 percent to close at HK$15.62.  All net proceeds of the IPO will go to  Pansy Ho , who sold
down her stake to 29 percent, with 1 percent going to partner
MGM Resorts. MGM  China  was a 50-50 joint venture between Ho and
Kerkorian’s casino operator before the share sale.  Revenue Growth  The Las Vegas-based company now owns 51 percent of MGM
China, enabling it to book profits from the Macau operation. MGM
Resorts last year derived about 39 percent of its $6 billion
sales from gambling operations, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Macau’s casino gambling revenue may grow 40 percent this
year, according to  David Bain , an analyst with Sterne, Agee &
Leach Inc. He raised his estimate from 30 percent after Macau’s
casino revenue grew 42 percent in May to 24.3 billion patacas, a
fourth consecutive monthly record.  Ho’s father, 89-year-old billionaire  Stanley Ho , held a
gambling monopoly in Macau for four decades before the city’s
government in 2002 started awarding casino licenses to overseas
companies including Sheldon G. Adelson’s  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) 
The government had said allowing the entry of Las Vegas casino
magnates including billionaire  Steve Wynn  would help transform
the Chinese city into a leisure destination.  Vegas Clone  The aim was for Macau, 40 miles west of Hong Kong and known
for its smoky gambling dens and legalized prostitution, to be
transformed into a Las Vegas clone, with luxury hotels,
wholesome entertainment, convention halls and exhibitions.  The Americans piled in and helped build Macau into the
world’s largest casino destination.  Still, the average length of stay for Macau visitors was
1.7 days at the end of 2010, indicating that many players spend 
their money on the tables then head back home.  The majority of visitors are Chinese day trippers who are
bused to the Macau border, Bowie said. The length of the average
visit by tourists who arrive from further away has increased, he
said.  MGM China’s Cotai development will be one and a half times
the size of its hotel and casino on Peninsular Macau, the
portion of the territory that shares a land border with the rest
of China. It will offer “a more holistic entertainment
experience,” Bowie said.  It will have more hotel rooms, restaurants, shops and
entertainment concepts. The company plans a series of smaller
attractions, Bowie said, unlike Adelson’s purpose-built Cirque
du Soleil theater adjacent to  Sands China Ltd. (1928) ’s Venetian Macao,
or the House of Dancing Water show at  Melco International
Development Ltd. (200) ’s City of Dreams across the street.  MGM should receive approval from the government by the end
of the year to start building, he said. Construction could start
early next year, with the first phase taking up to three years
to complete, he said. The timeline depends on MGM’s ability to
find enough workers in Macau’s overstretched labor market.  “We all know it’s an issue now and the government is
progressively working through a structured approach,” he said.
“We are comfortable we are going to have the labor, but I’m not
saying we aren’t going to have hiccups.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in  Hong Kong  at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  