-- 
Mladic Arrest May Accelerate Formation of Bosnia-Herzegovina’s Government

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-06-03T13:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/mladic-arrest-may-accelerate-formation-of-bosnia-herzegovina-s-government.html
The capture of war-crimes suspect
Ratko Mladic may help break a deadlock over a new government
in Bosnia-Herzegovina, where the ex-Bosnian Serb commander
engineered  Europe ’s worst bloodshed since World War II.  Mladic, 69, refused to enter a plea during an arraignment
today in  The Hague  on charges of genocide during the 1992-1995
siege of Sarajevo and the massacre of about 8,000 men and boys
in Srebrenica. Bosnia-Herzegovina has been without leadership
since October elections as Bosnian, Serb and Croat
representatives squabble over power sharing.  The May 26 arrest, which touched off pro-Mladic protests
in the region, may eventually ease ethnic tensions still
seething in Bosnia-Herzegovina as policy makers work to put
the violent breakup of Yugoslavia to rest and make compromises
over regional ties, political scientists said. The country is
the second-poorest former Yugoslav republic behind  Kosovo  as
it struggles to draw investors to an unsettled political
environment.  “There is a new momentum created by Mladic’s arrest
because it shows the idea of peace is gathering strength and
the idea of justice as well,” Mirko Pejanovic, the dean of
the  Faculty of Political Sciences  in Sarajevo, said in an
interview. “The central administration could be put in place
by the end of the month.”  EU Frontrunners  Political instability is holding back Bosnia’s efforts to
keep up with its neighbors in strengthening ties with the
European Union.  Slovenia, the first to break from Yugoslavia, is already
a member and neighboring  Croatia  expects to finish
negotiations with the trading bloc this year. Serbia,
meanwhile, is counting on Mladic’s capture to help it start
entry talks by the end of the year.  Bosnia-Herzegovina, a country of 3.8 million residents,
is still divided along ethnic lines drawn up as part of the
U.S.-brokered Dayton Accord signed in 1995.  The predominantly Serb region, called Republika Srpska,
and the Muslim-Croat Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina each run
their own governments, assemblies, police forces, courts and
other organs of state and wield more power than central
institutions.  Unrest in Banja Luka  In Banja Luka, the administrative capital of Republika
Srbska, about 10,000 people protested on May 31 for a second
time, supporting him and condemning Serbian President  Boris
Tadic  for allowing his arrest, raising concerns about further
ethnic strife. Those followed protests in Belgrade, the
Serbian capital.  Bosnia , whose $17 billion economy is about the size of
 Honduras , is under orders from the  International Monetary Fund 
to keep a lid on public spending, which accounts for more than
40 percent of total output, according to the central banker
Kemal Kozaric.  Its jobless rate at 27.2 percent is among the highest in
the region and its economy advanced 0.9 percent last year
after emerging from the deepest slump since the end of the
war.  “From the end of war, we hoped this would somehow be
finished,” said Sehida Abdurahmanovic, the leader of an
association of mothers who lost relatives after Bosnian Serb
forces overran the town, which was considered a UN safe haven.
“We hoped life would get better.”  Spending Cuts  Spending austerity is hindering the reconstruction of the
country 16 years after the war. Srebrenica, in eastern Bosnia
close to the Serbian border, once had the fourth-highest per-
capita income in Bosnia and still bears the scars of battle.  “Srebrenica was economically very strong before the
war,” said Abdurahmanovic. “We attracted people from all
over  Yugoslavia  as there were plenty of jobs.”  Now, the town is “dead,” said Abdurahmanovic, whose
husband, brother and other family members were killed, as she
stood in a  memorial park  outside of Srebrenica honoring the
victims.  “There are no investments in this region for Srebrenica
to get back on its feet,” she said. “There are few young
people here, not many children and it shows that it’s
difficult to live here.”  Rallies of support for Mladic in Republika Srpska have
angered other nations because “they are saying that all their
kids should be like Mladic,” Abdurahmanovic said.  No Remorse  “They are not denying what they did and they are not
ashamed and they don’t feel any remorse,” she said in the
interview. “This is something unbelievable to other nations
in Bosnia that they are filling their kids with hatred towards
other people. This is something I will never understand. ”  Breaking the political deadlock would unlock
international aid and attract further foreign investors to
Bosnia, the EU representative for Bosnia Valentin Inzko said
in an interview last month.  “We still live with communist-era water pipes,
communist-era roads and other infrastructure from that
period,” said political scientist Pejanovic, who is an ethnic
Serb and was a member of the Bosnian presidency during the
siege of Sarajevo.  Easing the ethnic bitterness that permeates politics and
social life may linger even after reconstruction.  Aida Sekulovic, a 74-year pensioner who relies on help
from her relatives abroad, said she’s still angry.  “There is still rage in me, but I know that it’s the
young that need to be taken care of, they need jobs and a
brighter future,” Sekulovic said in an interview on a
Sarajevo street.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  