-- 
Mladic Appears at UN War Tribunal in The Hague to Answer Genocide Charges

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-06-03T10:37:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/mladic-appears-at-un-war-tribunal-to-face-charges-of-genocide-war-crimes.html
War crimes suspect Ratko Mladic,
who led Bosnian Serb troops during the violent breakup of
 Yugoslavia  in the 1990s, made his first appearance before a
United Nations tribunal, calling genocide and war crimes
charges “obnoxious.”  Mladic, captured in  Serbia  on May 26, faces 11 charges
including genocide, persecution, extermination and murder and
taking UN hostages, according to an indictment read out by the
 court ’s lead judge in  The Hague  today. The former general, who
faces life in prison if convicted, said he is “gravely ill."  Wearing a grey suit and a cap, which he removed before
the hearing started, Mladic said he didn’t want to hear a
“single word” of the  indictment , refrained from entering a
plea and requested more time to understand the charges. A new
hearing was scheduled for July 4.  “I defended my people and my country,” Mladic said
after Judge Alphons Orie read the summary of charges. “I want
to live to see that I am a free man.”  Mladic was indicted in July 1995 along with former
Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic, who was arrested in 2008
on similar charges stemming from his role in the 1992-1995 war
in Bosnia-Herzegovina, the bloodiest chapter of Yugoslavia’s
collapse. The UN prosecutor can request the court to merge
their trials.  Serbian Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  declined to
comment during a meeting in Belgrade today.  Capture  The former general was arrested by Serbian police on May
26 after evading capture for almost 16 years. He led Serb
forces in Bosnia-Herzegovina during the siege of Sarajevo and
the massacre of almost 8,000 men and boys in Srebrenica after
Dutch troops failed to protect the so-called U.N. safe haven.  “Since 1995, we have been doing all in our power that
all those that committed war crimes face justice,” Sehida
Abdurahmanovic, the leader of an association of mothers who
lost relatives in Srebrenica, said in an interview. “For
people that died here during the war and were victims of
genocide, there is no punishment heavy enough that could
really make justice for all those crimes he committed.”  Milos Saljic, Mladic’s Belgrade lawyer, has said the ex-
general had three strokes in the past and could die “very
soon.” Mladic has suffered from lymph-node cancer and
underwent surgery and chemotherapy in 2009, the  Associated
Press  reported. Mladic, who visited the UN prison’s hospital,
discussed his health in the court session.  Political Impact  Mladic’s arrest and extradition were on the list of
conditions for Belgrade to convince the European Union that
Serbia is ready to become an EU candidate. The Dutch
government, which resigned in 2002 after an investigation into
the fall of Srebrenica, demanded Serbia first extradite Mladic
before it could negotiate EU accession.  Mladic is held with 36 others at the court’s detention
unit in a prison in the nearby seaside resort of Scheveningen.
The tribunal, established by a UN Security Council resolution
in 1993, has sentenced 64 people and now has 18 suspects on
trial or awaiting trial. Goran Hadzic, a wartime leader of
Serbs in  Croatia , is the only suspect at large.  Karadzic, 65, has refused to enter a plea to any of the
charges and disputes the jurisdiction of the court, following
an example set by former Serbian President  Slobodan Milosevic .
Milosevic died in prison in 2006 before his trial was
concluded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in The Hague at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 