-- 
After 30 Years of AIDS, Push Harder for HIV Prevention: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-03T23:12:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/after-30-years-of-aids-push-harder-for-hiv-prevention-view.html
AIDS has been with us, officially,
for 30 years, since the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention reported the first cases. This unhappy anniversary is
perhaps as good a time as any to spell out why the global
response to AIDS is in need of serious adjustment.  Annual spending on AIDS worldwide has risen to $15.9
billion. The bulk of this money goes to the treatment and care
of indigent people who are HIV-positive. Without question, the
investment in anti-retroviral therapy, or ART, has saved lives.
Today, the treatment is provided to about 36 percent of those in
the developing world who qualify for it under World Health
Organization guidelines.  United Nations  member states have pledged to raise that to
almost 100 percent. Universal treatment has become the principal
mission of many AIDS organizations around the world; governments
and philanthropies have followed their lead.  The idea of treating everyone who has the human
immunodeficiency virus, regardless of ability to pay, is
laudable. The problem is, the laudable runs the risk of crowding
out both the practical and the doable. As programs for treatment
have grown, those focused on prevention have languished or
gotten short-shrift.  A couple of examples: Studies in 2005 and 2006 showed that
circumcision reduced a man’s chances of becoming HIV-infected
through vaginal sex by roughly 50 percent. Yet circumcision
efforts remain spotty where they are most needed, in the 13
countries in  Africa  that have generalized AIDS epidemics and
relatively low circumcision rates.  Condom Use  This is especially troubling given that male circumcision,
which costs about $55 on average in Africa, is arguably the best
HIV prevention method available for men. It requires a one-time
effort rather than the constant discipline of using condoms or
taking ART daily as a prophylactic.  According to a study by the  Results for Development
Institute , it would cost $921 million to achieve, by 2015, male
circumcision rates of 80 percent in 22 low- and middle-income
countries with serious HIV epidemics.  For years, doctors have also known that transmission of HIV
from a mother to her newborn can be prevented by administering
ART to the mother during pregnancy and to the infant after
delivery. This practice helped reduce infection rates among
children born to HIV-positive mothers by 26 percent from 2001 to
2009.  Sparing Children  Still, last year an estimated 430,000 babies around the
world were born HIV-infected -- children who might have been
spared had this targeted approach received more significant
support. Results for Development estimated it would cost $3.8
billion to ensure that, by 2015, 80 percent of HIV positive
pregnant women received this intervention in the 22 countries
studied.  This isn’t to say that it’s unreasonable to give drug
treatment pride of place -- ART not only improves the lives of
the infected but, according to a new study conducted by the HIV
 Prevention Trials Network , it also can stop the virus from
spreading. When HIV-positive individuals were on anti-
retrovirals, the risk that they would infect their sexual
partners was greatly diminished.  What’s more, apart from male circumcision and treatment for
expecting mothers, there aren’t a lot of highly effective,
practical HIV prevention strategies available. Education and
condom campaigns rely on asking people to change sexual
behavior, and so have had limited success. These programs also
depend on altering entrenched cultural norms, like presuming
that women, who bear 60 percent of HIV infections in sub-Saharan
Africa, will always be able to negotiate the terms of sex and
condom use. The use of ART as prevention for those who aren’t
infected might hold promise were it not so costly.  Immediate Treatment  Many in the AIDS community now argue that everyone who
tests positive should begin drug treatment immediately -- rather
than when their CD4+ white-blood-cell count drops, the
conventional practice. But starting ART early means risking side
effects and drug resistance sooner. The HPTN study found just
one potential health benefit for the HIV-positive partner, a
reduced chance of contracting extrapulmonary tuberculosis.  Then there’s the question of cost, particularly when
compared with other measures. AIDS groups have done an admirable
job of negotiating with drug companies to reduce ART prices for
the developing world. A year’s supply of a first-line therapy
costs about $168 there. But the price more than doubles when it
includes the repeated check-ups that anyone on anti-retrovirals
must have, because the drugs can cause liver, kidney, nerve and
blood problems.  Drug Costs  Results for Development estimates that increasing the
percentage of HIV-infected people on ART in the developing world
to 80 percent by 2015, from the current 36 percent, would cost
$38 billion. Expanding the availability of male and female
condoms to four-fifths of people at risk of HIV in 22 countries
by 2015 would cost $4.2 billion.  In theory, it’s hard to be against a universal ART policy.
In an age of limited resources, though, it doesn’t make sense --
especially if that policy crowds out effective preventive
measures and robust research to develop new ones, like a
microbicide vaginal gel that blocks the virus, or an HIV
vaccine, which could actually end the pandemic.  Total global investment in microbicide research fell by 3
percent in 2009. Funding for vaccine research likewise has
diminished.  AIDS provokes big emotions, as it should. The world has
seen nothing like this pandemic since the Black Plague in the
14th century. Its death toll, 33 million, is just one measure of
its devastation. The passions stirred by AIDS have driven both
the development of HIV drugs and their rollout to poor countries
at reduced prices.  Yet there is also a place for cool reason. In this fourth
decade of AIDS, governments, philanthropies and activists need
to realign their priorities, understanding that it will be
possible to provide treatment to every HIV-infected person only
if we can, through prevention, greatly reduce the numbers of
those who carry the virus.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 