-- 
AIG Hits 14-Month Low as Insurer Has ‘No Investor Constituency’

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-06-03T20:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/aig-hits-14-month-low-as-insurer-has-no-investor-constituency-.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, fell to the lowest in more than a year,
as investors bet the U.S. Treasury Department may struggle to
find buyers for the rest of its shares.  The insurer dropped 36 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 27.65 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the lowest
closing price since March 9, 2010. AIG plunged 43 percent since
Dec. 31, the biggest decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The Treasury plans to sell more stock in New York-based AIG
after lowering its stake to 77 percent in a May 24 offering.
Demand from investors waned after a shortfall in insurance
reserves forced the firm, led by Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , to take a $4.2 billion fourth-quarter charge.  “There seems to be essentially no investor constituency
for AIG,” said  Paul Howard , director of research at Solstice
Investment Research in Glastonbury,  Connecticut , in a note
today. “Inherent inconsistencies with reserves and business
prospects going forward” may also weigh on the stock, he said.  The Treasury, which raised $5.8 billion selling shares at
$29 each, supports Benmosche, according to Tim Massad, the
department’s acting assistant secretary for financial stability.  “He has done a great job, as has the entire management
team, in turning around the company,” Massad told  Carol Massar 
and  Matt Miller  on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” on May
25. “A lot of people thought this company would just collapse.”  AIG stock almost doubled in 2010, Benmosche’s first full
year with the company, after slumping the three prior years.  The Treasury had converted its preferred stake for 92
percent of AIG’s common stock in January. The department had
invested $47.5 billion for the holding, meaning it got its AIG
stock for an average of about $28.73 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  