-- 
Airport Private Screeners Would Save $1 Billion, Mica Says

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-06-03T20:10:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/airport-private-screeners-would-save-1-billion-mica-says-1-.html
U.S. taxpayers could save  $1 billion 
over five years if the 35 biggest U.S. airports used private
rather than federal security screeners, said Representative John Mica, a  Florida  Republican.  The conclusion is based on analysis by Mica’s staff of
screening costs at  Los Angeles  and  San Francisco  international
airports. Screeners at the privately staffed San Francisco
airport on average checked 16,113 passengers each in 2010,
compared with 9,765 for the government workers in Los Angeles,
according to the  report .  “What we have are various layers of failure at great
cost,” Mica said at a news conference today in Washington.
“Managing a lot of people is not necessarily running a security
operation.”  The analysis extends a dispute between the House Republican
majority and the Democratic administration of  Barack Obama  over
the expansion of private screening in airports.  John Pistole ,
who runs airport screening for Obama, froze the number of
airports with private workers at 16 in January.  Nicholas Kimball, spokesman for Pistole, disputed Mica’s
findings and said in an e-mail that “best estimates” show
private contracts cost more than public screening.  Process Complexity  “Capacity to push out intelligence information to our
frontline workforce and quickly change procedures based on
threat and intelligence is paramount,” he said. “Privatized
screening will increase the complexity of this process.”  The dispute prompted action by the Republican-controlled
House yesterday. Lawmakers approved a $40.6 billion security
bill for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1 that sets aside almost
$270 million that can only be used for private screening.  The amendment by Mica that would make the money available
was approved on a  219-204 vote . The provision would force the
security agency to let 5,000 screeners go, accounting for 10
percent of the current workforce, Representative  David Price , a
North Carolina Democrat, said during yesterday’s  debate .  Lawmakers may also propose legislation removing Pistole’s
ability to freeze the private-screening program, Mica said.  The law that created the Transportation Security
Administration required five airports to have private screeners
under a two-year pilot program that began in 2002. The number
later grew to 16, including airports in San Francisco;  Kansas
City ; Roswell, New Mexico; Key West, Florida; and Montana.  Pistole told a House panel in February that private
screeners curb his flexibility in managing the agency. He said
he can’t easily shift the private screeners to other airports or
change protocols such as new pat-down procedures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hughes in  Washington  at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 