-- 
Aliens With Two Mouths Meet Double-Talking Humans in ‘Embassytown’: Books

-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 
2011-06-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/aliens-with-two-mouths-meet-double-talking-humans-in-embassytown-books.html
China Mieville, the author of
“ Perdido Street Station”  and “ The City and the City ,” wins
science fiction awards -- the Hugo, the Arthur C. Clarke -- the
way most of us catch colds.  “ Embassytown ,” his latest tale, is a slowly unfolding
compilation of genre conventions -- interstellar travel,
inscrutable aliens, futuristic nonce words (“floaker,”
“Anglo-Ubiq”) and a sardonic, outsider protagonist.  But the novel also exploits the grander themes of science
fiction that make it such a fecund garden of ideas: the vastness
of space, the fragility of culture and the shock of
“otherness.” Mieville has delivered Joseph Conrad in space,
“ Nostromo ” with bioengineered buildings.   Mieville  describes a realm beyond the known, provisional
dimensions, called “immer” -- the underlying permanence that
witnesses the creation and destruction of universes. Embassytown
lies at the edge of explored immer, on the cusp of the unknown,
at the doorstep of a wider world.  The town is a human outpost on the home planet of the
Ariekei, “insect-horse-coral-fan things” who speak through two
mouths simultaneously. To communicate with their hosts,
Embassytown breeds pairs of cloned ambassadors to speak the
complicated Language in unison.  The Ariekei can speak only the utter, literal truth. Their
Language can’t conceive of lies, fantasies or even metaphors. In
order to expand the range of ideas they can express, they stage
scenes to create similes to use as points of reference.  Living Simile  Avice Benner Cho, the book’s narrator, is recruited to take
part in a simile. She becomes known to the Ariekei as “a human
girl who in pain ate what was given her in an old room built for
eating in which eating had not happened for a time.”  The simile dovetails with her character. Avice is a
sardonic, go-along, get-along merchant sailor compelled to
revisit old troubles not of her own making. The story’s central
conflict revolves around the systematic failure of the Ariekei’s
Language and the collapse their identity. Avice, a walking
Ariekei trope, cannot escape her responsibility to Language.  Avice, for all her spacefaring experience, carries the
blinkered colonist’s outlook of her upbringing in Embassytown,
which is literally contained in an air bubble. She has little
sense of the geography of her home planet. The thought that her
town is but a blip in a country or on a continent surprises her
when she finally must strike out into the hinterlands.  In this inventive, intellectually challenging tale,
Mieville, like Conrad, never lets the parables overwhelm the
story. “Embassytown” is at heart an adventure set in a strange
place peopled with characters who change, succeed, fail as the
story proceeds.  Avice becomes an avid participant in the tumult around her.
So too do the Ariekei, dwelling for so long beyond human
understanding, emerge as individuals with conflicting agendas,
truths and horrors of their own.  “Embassytown” is published by Ballantine in the U.S. and
Macmillan in the U.K. (345 pages, $26, 17.99 pounds). To buy
this book in North America click  here .  ( Andrew Dunn  is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the review:
Andrew Dunn in New York at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  