-- 
Altria Appeals Tobacco Sales Oversight Ruling by U.S. Judge

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-03T21:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/altria-appeals-tobacco-sales-oversight-ruling-by-judge-in-d-c-.html
Cigarette makers including  Altria
Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris USA unit are appealing a judge’s
ruling that oversight of the industry resulting from a 1999
racketeering case is necessary and will continue.  The defendants, which also include  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) ’s
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco and  Lorillard Inc. (LO) ’s Lorillard Tobacco,
notified U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler in Washington today
that they are challenging her authority to oversee the case in
an appeal.  Kessler ruled June 1 that her involvement wasn’t ended by a
2009 law that empowered the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  to
monitor the industry and establish restrictions on the sale,
promotion and distribution of tobacco products.  In her ruling, Kessler said the cigarette makers continue
to challenge the law that created the FDA’s regulation of the
industry and if they prevail, “it will be all the more
necessary for them to be restrained by this court from any
future violations” of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act.  In 2006, Kessler found that the companies violated the law
by conspiring to hide the dangers of cigarettes. She ordered the
companies to stop marketing cigarettes as “light” and “low-
tar” and to make statements about the health effects of smoking
in newspapers and magazines and on cigarette packages.  ‘Foreign Activity’  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,  Europe ’s largest cigarette
maker, was dropped from the lawsuit in March after Kessler said
a 2010 ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court in a securities case
restricts the U.S. from finding liability in “what is
essentially foreign activity.”  “We look forward to presenting our arguments to the
appellate court,” said Steven Callahan, a spokesman for Altria.
Greg Perry, a spokesman for Lorillard, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail message seeking comment. Representatives at
Reynolds American’s public relations department didn’t
immediately reply to a phone message seeking comment.  Charles Miller, a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., 99-cv-02496,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  