-- 
Amedisys, Lorillard, Merge Healthcare: U.S. Equity Preview

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-06-06T13:23:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/altria-lorillard-wal-mart-walt-disney-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 9 a.m. in  New York .  Altria Group Inc. (MO)   fell 0.3 percent to $27.53.
Cigarette makers including Altria’s  Philip Morris USA  and
 Lorillard Inc. (LO) ’s Lorillard Tobacco are appealing a
judge’s ruling that oversight of the industry resulting from a
1999 racketeering case is necessary and will continue.  Lorillard was cut to “equal-weight” from “overweight”
at Morgan Stanley, which cited valuation and renewed uncertainty
related to the Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee.
The Greensboro, North Carolina-based company was cut to
“neutral” from “buy” at Davenport & Co. It declined 3.9
percent to $103.49.  Amedisys Inc. (AMED)   slumped 7.4 percent to $27.98. CRT
Capital Group LLC analyst Sheryl Skolnick cut her 2011 adjusted
earnings estimates for the largest U.S. home-nursing provider,
as the current average analysts’ forecast does not reflect the
negative impact from the physical face-to-face requirement.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)   rose 0.9
percent to $50.40. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reiterated its
“buy” recommendation for the largest publicly traded copper
producer, saying that the company should benefit from higher
copper prices amid strong demand.  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW US) lost 1.5 percent to $23.04. The
second-largest U.S. home improvement retailer was cut to
“neutral” from “overweight” at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which
said that earnings risk is rising.  Merge Healthcare Inc. (MRGE)   dropped 4.6 percent to
$5.40. The medical imaging provider is buying Ophthalmic Imaging
Systems, a provider of digital imaging and informatics solutions
for ophthalmology, for $30.3 million in stock.  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO)   fell 5.2 percent to $32.93.
Peru’s biggest producer of the metal declined after Ollanta
Humala claimed victory in the country’s presidential runoff as
voters rallied behind his pledges to stamp out corruption and
extend a mining boom to the nation’s poor.  United Therapeutics Corp. (UTHR)   slumped 5.9 percent to
$58.97. The oral version of the Remodulin drug met the main goal
of a late-stage study, helping patients with a lung disorder
walk farther. Patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension who
took the medicine for 12 weeks walked about 23 meters farther
over six minutes than those getting placebo, the  Silver Spring ,
Maryland-based company said in a statement, citing preliminary
results from the Freedom-M trial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  