-- 
America Movil Faces Mexico Competition Rules, De Swaan Says

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-06-03T20:22:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/america-movil-faces-mexico-competition-rules-de-swaan-says-1-.html
America Movil  SAB, controlled by
billionaire  Carlos Slim , will face new rules as soon as this
month that could force it to cut prices as Mexico’s dominant
phone carrier, the head of the country’s regulator said. The
stock slumped.  The Federal Telecommunications Commission plans around June
15 to apply restrictions to America Movil’s fixed-line unit in
the market for leasing lines to rivals, Mony de Swaan, the
agency’s president, said in an interview at the Bloomberg News
Mexico City bureau yesterday. Next will be regulations for its
mobile-phone unit, which could affect consumer prices, he said.  “They’re decisions that can greatly impact the market, so
we want to tread carefully,” said de Swaan, 41, whom President
Felipe Calderon appointed to the agency’s five-member board in
June 2010. “It will be a mix of different measures having to do
with fees, information and quality.”  The new rules will be based on 2009 and 2010 findings by
 Mexico ’s antitrust agency that the company is dominant in
different market segments, allowing de Swaan’s agency to single
out the carrier with specific regulations. America Movil is
challenging those antitrust rulings.  America Movil dropped 1.2 pesos, or 4 percent, to 28.73
pesos at 4 p.m. New York time in Mexico City trading, the
biggest decline since June 29, 2010. The shares closed at the
lowest price since March 2010 and were the biggest loser on
Mexico’s benchmark IPC index, which fell 0.8 percent today.  The carrier had no comment on the agency’s plans, said an
official who can’t be named under company policy.  Slashing Fees  De Swaan is pushing for actions he says will level the
playing field between America Movil and its rivals. That
includes reducing fees carriers charge each other to connect
calls and establishing rules for leasing lines from rivals.  America Movil, based in Mexico City, has 70 percent of
Mexico’s wireless subscribers. Its fixed-line unit, Telefonos de
Mexico SAB, known as Telmex, has 80 percent of the country’s
land lines and about 70 percent of its Internet connections.  The commission’s technical staff is reviewing the options
for regulations that could be applied to America Movil in the
wireless market, de Swaan said. The rules could be interpreted
to include prices for consumers or for fees charged to rivals,
among other options, he said.  The  Federal Telecommunications Commission  has cut by more
than half this year the fees that America Movil can charge
competitors to connect calls to its network. The company has
said the fee cuts de Swaan supports could reduce the industry’s
network spending by making investments less profitable.  Government’s Man  De Swaan’s fellow board members named him president of the
telecommunications commission in the month following his
appointment by Calderon last year. He was previously chief of
staff of the communications ministry and had worked for more
than a decade in various government agencies. He has a
bachelor’s degree in international relations from the Colegio de
Mexico and a master’s degree in comparative politics from the
 London School  of Economics.  As the president of the telecommunications agency, de Swaan
has used his Twitter  account  to debate critics, announce
decisions by the board and endorse his favorite indie rock
bands, such as Okkervil River and DeVotchKa.  The commission has been among several Mexican agencies
taking action this year to put a dent in Slim’s market share.
His agency got backing last month from the  Supreme Court , which
ruled that America Movil can’t block the fee cuts while it
challenges them in court.  No Targeted Campaign  Mexico’s antitrust agency assessed a $1 billion fine
against America Movil in April for monopolistic practices in the
market for fees charged to complete phone calls, a ruling
America Movil is appealing.  Last week, the Communications and Transportation  Ministry ,
with which de Swaan’s agency is affiliated, ruled that Telmex
hadn’t satisfied requirements to get permission to offer TV
service. Telmex, which wants to sell video to compete with
cable-TV companies, pledged to contest that ruling in court.  “There’s not a coordinated effort by the government
against one company,” de Swaan said. “There is a coordinated
effort, an effort announced by the government, to act in favor
of the consumer and promote competitive markets that are much
healthier than what we have today.”  Connection Fees  In Mexico, the person who initiates a phone call pays for
the airtime, so carriers charge each other to connect calls and
they are free to negotiate rates between each other. The fees
are significant because a carrier’s users don’t have to pay them
when they call each other on the same network, giving America
Movil an advantage in drawing new clients because it has the
largest network of customers.  If the carriers can’t agree on the fee amount, de Swaan’s
agency acts as a mediator. In March, the agency ruled that
America Movil could charge a rate of 39 centavos (3.3 cents) per
minute for calls from customers of smaller fixed-line carrier
Alestra SA, lower than the 95 centavos America Movil sought. The
agency has since upheld that rate in decisions involving two
other rivals,  Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO)  and  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD)   The commission is working on a plan to auction airwaves to
create two new broadcast television networks that could stretch
across the nation with digital coverage, de Swaan said. The
networks would compete with Televisa and TV Azteca SAB, which
together control almost all of Mexico’s broadcast market.  The auction is legally complex and still requires much
study, de Swaan said. An auction of radio frequencies this year
in southeastern Mexico, designed to improve coverage there, will
help the agency gain experience that will help with the TV
auction, he said.  “It’s a complicated process in a country that never in its
history has tendered spectrum for television,” he said. “We’re
on the path, and we’ll be working on it in the coming months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  