-- 
Harper Seeks More Canada Investment to Guard Against Slowing U.S. Economy

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-06-03T13:32:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/harper-seeks-more-canada-investment-to-guard-against-slowing-u-s-economy.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper
will outline a program for his freshly seated parliamentary
majority today that will include plans to rein in spending,
diversify trade and attract more foreign capital to protect the
country from being damaged by a faltering U.S. recovery.  Harper, the first Conservative to govern with a majority in
two decades, will announce his agenda in a  Speech from the
Throne , the ceremonial opening of a new legislative session in
Ottawa. A budget will follow June 6.  Harper’s May 2 election victory ended seven years of
minority governments that fueled federal spending. A majority
may also make it easier to press ahead with free-trade
agreements, and open industries to foreign investment to sustain
spending by businesses such as  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and phone
company BCE Inc. that is driving growth.  “The political situation enables the government to do
things in a way that they could not have done before,” said
Bernard Lord, chief executive of the Canadian Wireless
Telecommunications Association and a former Conservative
campaign chairman.  Harper, in power since 2006 without control of the
legislature, must surmount challenges that include a weakening
U.S. economy that threatens exporters, an aging workforce that
will squeeze government finances, and productivity gains that
lag behind its main trading partners.  Faster Growth  Canada posted 3.9 percent annualized economic growth in the
first quarter, second only to  Germany  among Group of Seven
nations and more than twice the U.S. rate.  Canada ’s benchmark
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index has declined 0.7 percent
since the beginning of May, compared with a drop of 3.7 percent
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Canadian bonds have returned
2.06 percent so far this year, compared with 1.56 percent for
the G-7 as a whole.  Still, the  Bank of Canada   predicted in April  economic
growth would slow in the second quarter to about half the first-
quarter pace. The faltering U.S. recovery has damped the ability
of Canada -- the only net commodity exporter in the G-7 -- to
benefit from rising prices, central bank Governor  Mark Carney 
said May 16, as higher costs crimp U.S. growth.  Canada’s dollar has fallen against all 16 of the most-
traded currencies over the past three months, according to
Bloomberg data, dropping 10 percent against the  Swiss Franc  and
4.9 percent against the euro, amid concern a weak U.S. recovery
will prompt Carney to delay interest rate increases. Canada
sends about 75 percent of its exports to the U.S.  Clarity Wanted  Canadian businesses will look for suggestions Harper will
give clarity on changes to foreign-ownership rules in the
telecommunications sector, as well as trade negotiations with
the European Union and  India  and discussions with the U.S. on
border security and economic integration, said  John Manley ,
president of the Ottawa-based Canadian Council of Chief
Executives.  The Conservatives campaigned as “strong managers of the
economy and as a party that believes that business could be
important in creating wealth,” said Manley, a former federal
Liberal finance minister. “They will want to run fairly hard on
a lot of these agenda items.”  The government’s first priority will be to pass the 2011
budget, Conservative House Leader Peter Van Loan told reporters
yesterday. In a May 11 interview at the Bloomberg Canada
Economic Summit in Toronto, Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said
the government will use its majority to ensure the nation erases
its deficit.  Spending Cuts  While the government’s March fiscal plan projected a
surplus by 2015, Harper  promised  during the campaign to
accelerate that timetable by finding C$4 billion in annual
savings in  government spending .  Another impediment to growth has been foreign ownership
restrictions. More than half of the country’s top 15 companies
by market value, including Royal Bank of Canada and BCE, can’t
be owned by foreigners.  Harper has said Canada remains open to foreign investment
even after the government blocked the takeover of Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan, Inc., the world’s biggest fertilizer company,
by Melbourne-based BHP Billiton Ltd. Following the rejection,
the government delayed plans to open the satellite and
telecommunications industries to more foreign investment.
Canadian telecom firms want the government to clarify its
position so they can plan infrastructure investments, said Lord.  Wireless Spectrum Auction  The government has promised to hold a wireless spectrum
auction next year. Wireless firms like Globalive Communications
Corp. want the government to set aside some bandwidth for new
entrants, while established companies such as BCE and  Rogers
Communications  Inc. say it should go to the highest bidder.  “We’d like the government to make an inventory of what’s
available,” Lord said, and “lay out a plan on how and when
this spectrum will be released.”  Energy policy will also be closely watched. The government
has promised regulations this year to limit  carbon emissions  by
oil and gas firms. Perrin Beatty, head of the Canadian Chamber
of Commerce, said the government needs to mount a “full-court
press” in the U.S. to counter the image of Canada’s oil sands
as “dirty oil.”  The country needs “a coherent energy strategy that commits
Canada to bring our energy resources to market in a responsible
way,” said Beatty, a former Conservative cabinet minister.
“Our policies today are scattered.”  The Obama administration wants Canada to agree to new
border-security rules and modernize intellectual-property laws
now that Harper has secured a majority, U.S. Ambassador to
Canada David Jacobson told a business audience yesterday.  Canadian and U.S. officials are negotiating an agreement to
cooperate on security matters to speed the flow of trade across
the border. Legislation to impose tougher copyright restrictions
on music, films and other works has been introduced by minority
governments three times since 2005, only to expire without being
passed each time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at   targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 