-- 
Tarullo Says Federal Reserve Should Oppose Bank Mergers That Increase Risk

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s ,   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-06-03T16:59:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/tarullo-says-federal-reserve-should-oppose-bank-mergers-that-increase-risk.html
Federal Reserve  Governor Daniel Tarullo said regulators should use capital surcharges to
discourage mergers by large banks that would increase risk
without yielding significant public benefits.  Tarullo signaled that the Fed aims to use tougher capital
standards correlated to the size of a firm to curb risks posed
by “systemically important financial institutions,” or
“SIFIs.” The new rules would mesh with international standards
now under discussion, he said today in a speech in Washington.  “There is little evidence that the size, complexity, and
reach of some of today’s SIFIs are necessary in order to realize
achievable economies of scale,” said Tarullo, the Fed governor
responsible for supervision and regulation. “The regulatory
structure for SIFIs should discourage systemically consequential
growth or mergers unless the benefits to society are clearly
significant.”  The world’s largest banks face one of the biggest revisions
of capital, liquidity and risk management requirements by
regulators responding to public opposition to government
bailouts. The Dodd-Frank Act in the U.S. mandates that the Fed
establish heightened standards for banks with assets over $50
billion. In addition, global regulators are hammering out
accords in Basel,  Switzerland , that would more than double the
minimum common equity requirement for banks.  The KBW Bank Index was little changed as Tarullo delivered
his remarks, rising 0.16 to 48.28 at 12:55 p.m. in New York.  The Fed is developing a metric for banks with more than $50
billion in assets that gradually increases  capital requirements 
according to measures of systemic importance including size,
Tarullo said.  ‘Systemic Importance’  “The ideal approach would be a continuous function, by
which the percentage rate of the additional requirement would
vary precisely with the measure of a firm’s systemic
importance,” Tarullo said. “An alternative would be a tiered
structure, by which firms are divided into several groups on the
basis of the systemic metric.”  Under international proposals known as  Basel  III, 15 to 26
of the biggest global banks will also likely face an additional
surcharge because  regulators  don’t believe they have an
effective cross-border resolution scheme, according to a memo
from the Global Financial Markets Association obtained by
Bloomberg News.  “The complexities of cross-border resolution of such
firms, to which I alluded earlier, apply equally to foreign-
based institutions,” Tarullo said. “For these reasons, we have
advocated in the Basel Committee for enhanced capital standards
for globally important SIFIs.”  New Regulations  Jamie Dimon , chairman and chief executive officer of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , warned yesterday that a wave of new
regulations and capital requirements will distort markets.  “You’re going to end up with 10 percent capital for banks
like us,” Dimon said at the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. investor
conference in  New York . “It will have ramifications on what
people pay for credit, what banks hold on balance sheets.”  In his speech, Tarullo rejected this objection, saying it
was “conceptually incomplete, if not flawed, even when applied
to generally applicable capital requirements.”  If the additional requirements make some lending
unprofitable for larger banks it could then “be assumed by
smaller banks that do not pose similar systemic risk and thus
have lower capital requirements,” he said.  Disputed Notion  Tarullo also disputed the notion that the Fed’s actions
were “punishment” of large firms, saying there is “little if
any research” showing that the largest firms need their size in
order to achieve economies of scope and scale.  Identifying the largest firms won’t increase moral hazard,
Tarullo said, because “moral hazard is already undermining
market discipline on firms that are perceived too-big-to-fail.”  Global regulators shouldn’t allow too-big-to-fail banks to
use contingent convertible bonds to meet additional capital
requirements, Tarullo said.  So-called CoCo bonds, which convert into a bank’s ordinary
shares if a specific trigger event occurs, are being considered
for a capital surcharge on big banks by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision . Tarullo said “it wasn’t clear” how they
could be “structured so as to convert in a timely, reliable
fashion.”  “There is considerable risk that once some form of hybrid
is permitted, a slippery slope effect ensues, whereby national
regulators approve increasingly diluted forms of capital under
political pressures,” he said.  Foot the Bill  Some regulators are exploring the use of CoCos to protect
taxpayers from having to foot the bill for future bank rescues.
Switzerland proposed that the country’s two largest banks, UBS
AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, could use CoCos to satisfy part
of a capital surcharge imposed at the national level.  “It’s not set in stone whether it’s going to be common
equity, CoCos, or if a combination will be allowed,” Lars Frisell, chief economist of the Swedish Financial Supervisory
Authority and a member of the Basel committee, said in an
interview last month in  Stockholm .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
4958 or  bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  