-- 
Asian Stocks Decline as Investors Await U.S. Jobs Report; Honda, LG Drop

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-06-03T10:10:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/asia-stocks-advance-as-exporters-increase-on-euro-nintendo-foster-s-jump.html
Asian stocks fell for a second day,
driving the regional benchmark index to its longest string of
weekly losses since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., amid signs economic recovery in the U.S. is faltering.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest automaker that gets
28 percent of sales from  North America , lost 1.2 percent in
Tokyo.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , a South Korean electronics maker,
dropped 1.2 percent after saying there won’t be a turnaround for
its mobile-phone business in the second quarter.  Hang Lung
Properties Ltd. (101)  led Hong Kong developers lower after home sales
in the city dropped for a fifth month in May.  “We could see a little bit more consolidation before
equities go back up,” Michael Preiss, Singapore-based chief
equities strategist at Standard Chartered Bank, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “The second half slowdown that
we see is potentially becoming worse than economists had
forecast.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.5 percent to 133.88 as
of 7:09 p.m. in Tokyo, heading for a 0.4 percent drop this week.
The five-week slump is the gauge’s longest losing streak since
October 2008, after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers triggered
a global stocks rout. Almost two stocks fell for each that rose
on the measure, which swung between gains and losses at least
eight times.  Japan  Politics  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average decreased 0.7 percent,
erasing an earlier advance of as much as 0.5 percent. Prime
Minister Naoto Kan’s pledge yesterday to step down sparked a
contest to select the nation’s next leader, adding to the risk
of delays in reconstruction after the March earthquake and
approval of plans to boost taxes and shrink the deficit needed
to restore growth and assuage credit concerns. Kan yesterday
survived a no-confidence vote in parliament.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.4 percent. Hong Kong’s
 Hang Seng Index (HSI)  sank 1.3 percent.  China ’s Shanghai Composite
Index rose 0.8 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index added 0.6 percent.  Stocks have fallen this week as reports showed
manufacturing growth from China, the U.S. and  Europe  slowed in
May, adding to signs that momentum is weakening in a global
economy facing headwinds from rising commodity costs and
financial shocks. Greece’s risk of default was raised to 50
percent by Moody’s Investors Service as European officials
rushed to put together the second bailout plan in two years to
stave off renewed financial turmoil in the region.  Low Expectations  “These have all impacted sentiment extensively,”  Adrian Foster , head of financial-market research for Asia at Rabobank
Groep NV in  Hong Kong , said on Bloomberg television. “There’s
no strong incentive to solve Greece’s debt problems. Data from
the U.S. had conspired to pull expectations quite significantly
lower.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.3
percent today. In  New York , the index retreated 0.1 percent
yesterday, falling for a second day, ahead of a monthly report
on employment by the U.S. Labor Department.  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
unemployment benefits last week, a government report showed
yesterday. Monthly payrolls data due today may show employers
added 165,000 jobs in May, following a 244,000 increase in April,
economists forecast. Economists predicted a gain of 185,000
before yesterday’s ADP Employer Services report showed companies
added 38,000 jobs last month, less than a quarter of the median
estimate in a survey of economists.  ‘Poor Data’  “Investors are going to be on hold today, waiting for the
jobs report,” said Juichi Wako, a senior strategist at Tokyo-
based Nomura Holdings Inc. “We’ve had some poor data out of the
U.S. lately, and employment numbers to be released today will
help settle some questions.”  Toyota slipped 1.2 percent to 3,230 yen in Tokyo. Yue Yuen
Industrial Holding Ltd., a maker of shoes for Nike Inc. that
counts the U.S. as its biggest market, sank 2.2 percent to
HK$26.40 in Hong Kong.  Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038) , the
world’s largest contract maker of mobile phones, dropped 2.2
percent to HK$3.99 in Hong Kong.  LG Electronics, the world’s No. 3 mobile phone maker,
declined 1.2 percent to 93,100 won in Seoul. The company’s
mobile-phone business won’t turn to a profit in the second
quarter, while its television unit is hurting from high
inventory, chief executive officer Koo Bon Joon told reporters
yesterday.  Real Estate  Developers in Hong Kong fell after home-sale transactions
in the city declined for a fifth straight month in May as rising
mortgage rates continue to dent buying sentiment. The number of
units that changed hands last month declined 12 percent from a
year earlier to 9,681, the Land Registry said yesterday. The
value of transactions rose 15 percent from a year earlier to
HK$49.5 billion ($6.4 billion), according to a statement on the
government body’s website.  Hang Lung, Hong Kong’s fifth-biggest developer by sales,
declined 2.6 percent to HK$31.55.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) ,
the world’s largest real estate company by market value,
decreased 2 percent to HK$116.80. Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd.,
owned by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing , dropped 2 percent to
HK$116.80.  Among stocks that advanced,  Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)  surged 3.5
percent to A$4.43 in Sydney, its biggest advance since Jan 24.
Grupo Modelo SAB de CV, the Mexican brewer of Corona beer, and
Molson Coors Brewing Co. are exploring a possible joint bid for
Australia’s biggest brewer, said five people with knowledge of
the situation.  Macau Casino  PCCW Ltd. (8) , Hong Kong’s largest phone company, jumped 4.4
percent to HK$3.10 after winning approval from the city’s stock
exchange to list its telecommunications operations as a business
trust.  MGM China Holdings Ltd., the Macau venture between  Pansy Ho 
and the biggest casino operator on the Las Vegas Strip, rose 1.8
percent to HK$15.62 on its first day of trading in Hong Kong.
The company raised $1.5 billion in its initial share sale.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 2.3 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 4.4 percent by the  S&P
500  and 0.4 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark were valued at 13.3 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.2 times for the S&P 500 and 11.1 times
for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in  Tokyo  at 
 Skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 