-- 
Asian Stocks Record Longest Losing-Streak Since Lehman’s Collapse in 2008

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-03T22:45:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/asian-stocks-record-longest-losing-streak-since-lehman-collapse.html
Asian stocks fell, capping the
biggest streak of weekly losses since the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, as disappointing U.S. economic
reports overshadowed optimism Europe’s debt crisis may be
contained.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  paced declines among carmakers in Tokyo
as U.S. sales slumped.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  dropped 2 percent in
Sydney as metal prices sank in  London .  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the
world’s third-biggest maker of mobile phones, slid 5 percent in
Seoul. Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the world’s biggest
shipbuilder, jumped 12 percent in Seoul after winning orders
from Greece.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index declined 0.3 percent to 133.98
this week, its fifth straight drop, as reports showed U.S.
manufacturing expanded at the weakest pace in more than a year
and employers hired fewer workers than forecast, exacerbating
concern over the global impact of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  “The weak manufacturing and employment data have added to
concerns about the strength of the global economy,” said  Shane Oliver , head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors
Ltd., which manages about $98 billion in Sydney. “The roller-
coaster in global and regional markets continues, and right now
it’s back to risk-off.”  The decline over the past five days completes the MSCI
Asia-Pacific Index’s biggest string of weekly losses since the
gauge dropped for six consecutive weeks beginning September 2008,
the month that Lehman Brothers’ bankruptcy helped precipitate a
global financial crisis.  Aid to Greece  This week’s losses were limited by speculation that
European officials will pledge more financial aid to Greece,
potentially easing the region’s debt problems.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 0.3 percent this week
and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index sank 2.2 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi index gained 0.6 percent, while  Hong Kong ’s Hang
Seng index slid 1.3 percent.  Toyota and Honda Motor Co. led declines among Japanese
carmakers in Tokyo as industry-wide U.S. auto sales fell to 1.06
million cars and light trucks last month from 1.1 million a year
earlier, according to a report from Autodata Corp.  Toyota and Honda, the automakers hardest hit by Japan’s
record earthquake in March, led U.S. sales declines among Asian-
based car manufacturers in May as supplies of some models ran
low, the report showed.  Japanese Carmakers  Toyota, the world’s biggest carmaker, decreased 3.2 percent
to 3,230 yen this week. Honda Motor Co. which gets about 44
percent of sales from  North America , dropped 1.6 percent to
3,020 yen. Nissan Motor Co.,  Japan ’s No. 3 automaker by market
value, sank 2.9 percent to 773 yen.  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
fell last month to its lowest level since September 2009, while
companies added jobs at the slowest pace since September.
Employment grew by 38,000 in May, data from ADP Employer
Services showed this week, missing a 175,000 median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Separately, a government report showed more Americans than
forecast filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week.  “The global economy has hit a soft patch and more
investors are shying away from risk assets.” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees the equivalent of $600 million at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. in  Tokyo .  ‘Soft Patch’  BHP dropped 2 percent to A$43.23 in Sydney as the London
Metal Exchange Index of prices for six metals, including copper
and aluminum, slid 1.03 percent this week. Rio Tinto Group, the
world’s second-biggest mining company by sales, fell 1.2 percent
to A$79.76. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s No. 1 producer of the
metal, slipped 1.15 percent to HK$25.80 in Hong Kong.  In Seoul, LG Electronics fell 5 percent to 93,100 won after
the company said a recovery at its handset business may take
longer than some analysts expect.  Hyundai Heavy surged 12 percent to 506,000 won this week in
Seoul after winning an order for two liquefied natural gas
tankers from Dynagas Ltd. of  Greece .  The euro advanced against the Japanese currency this week
amid signs the region’s debt crisis may ease afterJean-Claude Juncker, head of the region’s finance ministers’ group, said
European Union leaders will decide on additional aid for Greece
by the end of June.  Officials from the EU and the  International Monetary Fund 
undertook a review of Greece’s plan for 78 billion euros ($113
billion) in asset sales and austerity measures as they prepare
the nation’s second bailout in little more than a year.  Their assessment capped a week in which Greece’s fiscal
crisis worsened enough for Moody’s Investors Service to raise
the probability of a default to 50 percent.  “While stock valuations are looking attractive, we’re
still cautious as global growth is slowing,” said Diane Lin, a
Sydney-based  fund manager  at Pengana Capital Ltd., which has
about $1 billion of assets. “ Europe ’s situation is still very
difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 