-- 
Atrium Keeps Cash Ready as East Europe Mall Building Deals Remain Scarce

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-06-03T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/atrium-keeps-cash-ready-even-as-east-european-mall-deals-remain-scarce.html
Atrium European Real Estate Ltd. (ATRS) , an
eastern European shopping mall operator and developer, plans to
keep cash available for acquisitions rather than return it to
shareholders even though few properties are for sale.  The company would only consider distributing the money
through share buybacks or increased dividends if the drought of
available assets persists, Chief Executive Officer Rachel Lavine
said. Atrium could invest up to 1 billion euros ($1.45 billion)
without stretching its balance sheet, she estimated.  “If I feel we failed to spend the money, I would have no
choice” but to return cash, she said. “I don’t think we’re
going to fail. We’re going to buy and we’re going to develop as
soon as we can.”  Atrium is seeking to increase the proportion of its assets
in Poland compared with  Russia  and  Turkey  as it looks to regain
an investment-grade  credit rating  by focusing on less-risky
markets. The company, controlled by Israeli property group Gazit
Globe Ltd. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , is restarting developments and
purchases as economies in the former communist region begin to
recover from the financial crisis.  Poland accounts for 42 percent of Atrium’s standing assets,
with 18 percent in Russia and 15 percent in the  Czech Republic .
About 36 percent of its development projects are in Turkey and
30 percent are in Russia.  The company completed the acquisition of Warsaw’s Promenada
mall for 171 million euros on May 6, its first major deal in
four years. Levine has said she is considering two more
acquisitions in  Poland  this year.  Slow Market  Last year, buyers completed 14 acquisitions in Eastern
Europe with a total value of $340 million, according to
Bloomberg data. That compares with 122 deals worth $10.1 billion
in 2007.  Atrium’s credit ratings have been below investment grade,
or “junk” at both Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings since
September 2007. Fitch raised its rating to BB+, the highest non-
investment-grade level, in October. S&P increased its rating to
BB in November, two steps below investment grade.  Returning to an investment-grade rating is “super-
important,” Lavine said. The company’s large proportion of
assets in Russia and in development projects still weighs on the
ratings, she said.  “We’re going to develop in Russia because we have close to
200 million euros in the pipeline,” she said. “But I’m not
sure we’re going to be a buyer of new property” in the country.  Potential tenants would rather rent space in proven
shopping centers than risk joining a new development, she said.
That’s why Atrium is focusing more on expanding and refurbishing
existing projects than on building new ones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  