-- 
Mavericks Rally From 15-Point Deficit to Beat Heat, Tie NBA Finals at 1-1

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-06-03T05:12:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/mavericks-rally-from-15-point-deficit-to-beat-heat-tie-nba-finals-at-1-1.html
The  Dallas Mavericks  overcame a 15-
point deficit with six minutes, 20 seconds to play to beat the
Miami Heat 95-93 and tie the National Basketball Association
Finals at one game apiece.  Dirk Nowitzki  scored the final nine points for the
Mavericks last night, including the winning layup with his
injured left hand, to cap a 22-5 run and hand the Heat their
first home loss of the playoffs.  “We got the split, this is big, so now we’ve got to go
home and play a great Game 3,” Nowitzki told reporters at
AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami. “This is a pivotal game now.
You can’t steal one on the road and then go home and lose the
next one.”  In the fourth quarter,  Dallas  surrendered 13 straight
points and committed five turnovers to trail 88-73 before
turning the game around.  Jason Terry made a 16-foot jump shot to start the Dallas
revival, and the visitors tied it at 90 on a Nowitzki layup with
57 seconds remaining.  Nowitzki hit a 3-pointer with 26 seconds left to make it
93-90. Miami tied it two seconds later on a 3-pointer from the
corner by Mario Chalmers off an in-bounds play.  “To get the lead after being down 15 was big, and then we
just leave a shooter wide open,” Nowitzki said. “That was a
mental breakdown, but we still had a good position -- we had 24
seconds left and had the ball in a tied game.”  Injured Hand  Nowitzki completed the scoring with three seconds left on a
driving layup with his non-shooting hand. Nowitzki tore a tendon
in the middle finger of his left hand in Game 1 and had it taped
last night.  “All the players have their bumps and bruises at this time
of the year, so you’ve just got to play through it,” Nowitzki
said.  The Mavericks overcame a 15-point deficit with 4:48 to play
to win Game 4 of the Western Conference finals before outscoring
the Oklahoma City Thunder 21-9 in the last eight minutes of the
next game to win the series and advance to the NBA Finals.  Nowitzki finished with 24 points and 11 rebounds, while
Shawn Marion contributed 20 points and eight rebounds for
Dallas.  Dwyane Wade  had 36 points for the Heat and  LeBron James 
added 20 points and eight rebounds.  “We’ve made our mistakes today. We can’t let it linger. We
have to just leave this where it is,” Miami’s  Chris Bosh  told
reporters. “There’s no shock. There’s disappointment.”  The best-of-seven game series now moves to Dallas for the first
of three games on June 5. The Heat beat the Mavericks in six
games in each team’s only previous visit to the NBA Finals in
2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  