-- 
Republican Hopefuls Woo Social Conservatives at Faith Conference

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-06-04T03:36:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/bachmann-calls-on-christian-group-to-help-block-health-care-law.html
Republican presidential hopefuls
sought support from Christian conservatives, with some choosing
to give more weight to economic matters than to social issues,
such as abortion, that are central to a voting bloc the party
relies on.  U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann , who has hinted that
she may be interested in a White House run, spoke out against
abortion and drew a standing ovation today from the  Faith and
Freedom Coalition  when she condemned President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care overhaul. Another potential candidate,  Jon Huntsman ,
centered his remarks on social issues, telling the group that as
governor of Utah, he signed every anti-abortion bill that
reached his desk.  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who formally
entered the 2012 race for the White House this week, focused on
the economy and the growing national debt, calling Obama’s
handling of the situation a “moral tragedy.” He said the
president is blind to the impact the nation’s 9.1 percent
jobless rate is having on ordinary Americans.  “This is not just a crisis, this is a moral crisis that we
face in this country,” he said.  The conference in Washington drew a flock of White House
contenders, both potential and announced, including former
Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  and Representative  Ron Paul  of
 Texas , who also spoke today. Former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum and businessman Herman Cain are on tomorrow’s agenda.
The group also heard from real estate developer  Donald Trump ,
who said last month that he wouldn’t run for the Republican
nomination after flirting for weeks with a possible bid.  ‘Broken Promises’  In his remarks, Pawlenty highlighted what he said are
“broken promises” by Obama to halve the  U.S. budget deficit  in
his first term and boost the economy. He said Obama isn’t
leveling with Americans about the unpopular choices it will take
to restore fiscal balance and move to policies that can create
more jobs. That will require curbing subsidies to industries,
making changes to Social Security and other tough choices, he
said.  He also highlighted his opposition to abortion, and pledged
to ensure that traditional marriage remains elevated under the
law.  “All domestic relationships are not the same as marriage,
and it needs to be protected,” Pawlenty said.  Bachmann, who is also from  Minnesota , drew one of the
warmest responses from the crowd. She urged the audience to work
to prevent their state governments from implementing the health-
care overhaul enacted last year.  Legal Challenge  The law, which is being challenged in several lawsuits,
requires most Americans to have health insurance and bars
insurers from denying coverage to people who are sick.  She also assured the group that the law would be repealed.
“We will win this fight,” she said to a standing ovation.
“Take it to the bank. Cash the check. It will be done.”  She touched on other issues, including abortion and
marriage. She cited  Census Bureau statistics  reporting that
fewer than half of U.S. households are now headed by a married
couple of one man and one woman. “Marriage is under siege like
no other time in history,” she said.  Bachmann, a favorite of Tea Party activists who helped fuel
Republican gains in the 2010 elections, has said she intends to
make clear later this month whether she will seek the presidency.  Anti-Abortion Actions  Huntsman underscored his efforts to advance anti-abortion
legislation in  Utah , including one that would outlaw abortion in
the state if the  Supreme Court ’s  Roe v. Wade  decision were
overturned. He noted that he and his wife had adopted two
children from overseas, and he thanked their birth mothers for
allowing them to be raised by his family.  Huntsman, who earlier this year resigned as U.S. ambassador
to  China  under Obama to explore challenging him, said
Republicans should focus on social issues, along with the
economy and the federal deficit, in the 2012 campaign.  “There is something more essential than politics, and
that’s life,” he said. “If Republicans should ignore life, the
deficit we will face is one that will be much more
destructive.”  Paul decried an “epidemic” of children born out a wedlock,
the breakdown of families, and a society that has become far too
dependent on government.  “Today there is so much dependency -- dependency on the
government, and it’s cradle to grave,” he said, as the audience
cheered him repeatedly and gave him a standing ovation.  Romney received a warm response, even though his past ties
with social conservatives have had some strains, and his remarks
made little mention of social policy issues. He said he views
marriage as between “one man and one woman,” and he spoke
largely of restoring entrepreneurial, small-government values.  Romney’s ‘Flip-Flop’  Romney’s views on abortion and gay rights have been an
issue with social conservatives. He supported both when he began
his political career in  Massachusetts  with a failed 1994 bid to
unseat then-Senator Edward Kennedy, a Democrat, and when he won
the state’s governorship in 2002.  His position changed and he opposed abortion and gay rights
in his 2008 presidential race. He was dogged by “flip-flop”
charges during that campaign, and many social conservatives
continue to question his commitment to their causes.  Evangelical Christians are an important part of the
Republican voting bloc. In the 2008 presidential election, they
accounted for 23 percent of the electorate, according to the  Pew
Research Center , and 73 percent of their votes went to
Republican presidential candidate  John McCain .  Second Event  The Faith and Freedom Conference is the second event
featuring Republican presidential contenders staged by the
coalition, which is based in Duluth,  Georgia . It sponsored a
forum in Des Moines in March and plans one in  Florida  in
September. The head of the group, Ralph Reed, ran the Christian
Coalition of America, which was founded by evangelist Pat Robertson, from 1989 to 1997.  Like the Christian Coalition, the Faith and Freedom
Coalition plans to prepare voting guides for churches and civic
organizations to hand out before Election Day. The website also
includes  lawmakers’ voting records  on issues of importance to
the group.  The Rev. Barry Lynn, a minister in the United Church of
Christ and executive director of Washington-based  Americans
United for Separation of Church and State , criticized the Faith
and Freedom group’s political efforts. He said Reed and the
coalition’s other leaders want “to forge fundamentalist
churches and church members into a disciplined voting bloc and
force political candidates to kneel before it.”  “This kind of mixture of religion and politics is a grave
danger to American public life,” Lynn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 