-- 
Bharat Heavy, Alstom Among Five Bidders for NTPC Turbine Order

-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 
2011-06-03T11:52:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/bharat-heavy-alstom-among-five-bidders-for-ntpc-turbine-order.html
Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) ,  Alstom
SA (ALO)  and  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  are among five power-equipment
makers that have bid for orders to supply turbines to NTPC Ltd.,
 India ’s biggest electricity-generating utility.  The companies submitted technical bids for nine 800-
megawatt supercritical turbines, NTPC Chairman Arup Roy Choudhury said by telephone today in  New Delhi . “May be we will
open the bids in September as we are obligated to award the
projects by November,” he said.  India, the world’s second-fastest growing major economy,
plans to add 120,000 megawatts of generation capacity in the
next six years to reduce a peak power deficit that reached 9.8
percent in the year ended March 31. NTPC expects to build 30,500
megawatts during the period, Choudhury said.  The winning bidders must set up manufacturing units
locally, said Power Secretary P. Uma Shankar.  “The intention isn’t to neglect foreign manufacturers, but
to improve domestic power manufacturing capabilities,” Shankar
said by telephone today from New Delhi.  Bharat Heavy bid for the turbine contract jointly with
Siemens Ltd. Alstom is in partnership with  Bharat Forge Ltd. (BHFC) ,
while Larsen has a venture with  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) 
Hitachi Ltd. bid with BGR Energy Systems Ltd. and  Toshiba Corp. (6502) 
with  JSW Energy Ltd. (JSW)   NTPC is ordering turbines and boilers for three 1,600
megawatt plants and one 2,400 megawatt project, valued at a
combined 100 billion rupees ($2.2 billion), Choudhury said.  The Alstom, Hitachi, Larsen and Bharat Heavy ventures have
bid to supply boilers for the projects, along with  Thermax Ltd. (TMX) 
in partnership with  Babcock & Wilcox Co. (BWC)  and  South Korea ’s
Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction Co., which is competing
on its own, according to Choudhury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  