-- 
Billionaire Palmer’s Resourcehouse May Cut Price of Hong Kong IPO by 30%

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-06-03T07:00:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/billionaire-palmer-s-resourcehouse-may-cut-price-hong-kong-ipo-price-30-.html
Resourcehouse Ltd., Australian
billionaire  Clive Palmer ’s coal and iron-ore company, may cut
the price of its Hong Kong initial public offering as much as 30
percent to $2.5 billion after a slide in share markets.  The company is offering 5.7 million shares and may offer
stock at HK$3.45 (44 cents) each, down from the original range
of HK$4.48 to HK$4.93, according to a term sheet for the
transaction. No decision to cut the price has yet been taken,
Palmer, 57, said when contacted by mobile phone.  “We haven’t made a decision either way yet,” Palmer said.
“The day of pricing is today.”  Palmer, who had already postponed the offering at least
three times, wants the money to fund construction of mines in
 Australia . Iron ore prices have fallen 12 percent from the peak
in China this year and Asia Pacific’s benchmark stock index
dropped for four straight weeks, damping investor sentiment.  “He may have missed the boat by six months or so in terms
of getting an ideal price but equally it still makes sense to
get a listing to raise capital and make acquisitions,” Michael
McCormick, a  fund manager  at Belvedere Share Managers Pty in
Sydney, said by phone.  Following the IPO, Resourcehouse will pay as much as A$1.1
billion ($1.2 billion) to Palmer’s closely held companies,
including A$930 million over the three years to 2014. The
payments, which include A$250 million a year toward the cost of
constructing a port, would be made before the Brisbane,
Australia-based company is forecast to make a profit in 2014 or
2015.  Royalty Payments  Investors may also be concerned by the structure of the
initial public offering,  Lucinda Chan , division director and
head of Asian business at Macquarie Private Wealth in Sydney,
said by phone.  Resourcehouse wants to develop an iron ore mine in  Western
Australia  that will cost at least A$2.7 billion and an $8.6
billion  coal mine  in Australia’s Queensland state.  Iron ore prices in China have dropped from this year’s peak
of $191.90 a metric ton on Feb. 16 to close yesterday at
$168.80. The S&P/ASX 200 Resources Index has fallen 11 percent
since its April 11 peak as investors worry about the European
debt crisis and tightening measures in China dampening economic
growth and demand for commodities.  Hong Kong IPOs have raised at least $8.9 billion so far
this year, up 55 percent on a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Huaneng Renewables Corp., the wind-power
unit of  China ’s biggest electricity producer, today raised
HK$6.23 billion in its IPO, two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Palmer’s Stake  The company planned to sell at least 5.7 billion shares.
Palmer, a law school dropout who made his fortune in real
estate, will retain a 53.67 percent stake if an over allotment
option to sell 857 million more isn’t exercised. The shares are
scheduled to start trading June 10.  Palmer, ranked as Australia’s fifth-richest man with a
fortune of A$5.05 billion according to BRW magazine’s rich list
published last month, has pulled the IPO at least three times
since first announcing plans in 2009.  Once Resourcehouse’s mines start production, Palmer will
receive annual payments of A$25 million in coal royalties and
A$15 million a year in iron ore royalties. Mineralogy Pty and
Waratah Coal Inc., both owned by Palmer, remain the owners of
the mines and Resourcehouse has an agreement to extract specific
quantities.  The number of basic material companies worldwide conducting
IPOs this year has risen by 33 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. There has been $17.3 billion raised so
far this year, up 77 percent on last year. Commodity trader
Glencore International Plc’s $9.8 billion raising is the biggest
in the sector so far.  Biggest Drop  Commodities posted the biggest monthly drop in a year last
month as the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  and accelerating
inflation in China fanned speculation the global economic growth
will slow.  China Railway Group Ltd. (390)  and Metallurgical Corp. of China
Ltd. have both agreed to invest about $200 million in
Resourcehouse.  BOC International Holdings Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG are managing the sale.  Resourcehouse wants at least one Chinese company to provide
or arrange debt to fund about 70 percent of the cost of the
building the initial stage of the China First iron ore project,
the Brisbane, Australia-based company said in the prospectus.
Any financing deal needs the approval of Mineralogy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  