-- 
Brazil’s Quickening First-Quarter Growth Challenges Effort to Cool Economy

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-06-03T18:13:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/brazil-s-quickening-first-quarter-growth-challenges-effort-to-cool-economy.html
Brazil’s economy gained speed in the
first quarter, challenging President  Dilma Rousseff ’s efforts to
cool growth and bring inflation to its target by next year.  Gross domestic product expanded 1.3 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three-month period and 4.2 percent
from a year earlier, the national statistics agency said today
in  Rio de Janeiro . Both figures matched the median forecasts of
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Growth in the fourth quarter
of 2010 from the previous three months was revised to 0.8
percent from 0.7 percent.  Rousseff’s government aims to damp growth and curb
inflation in  Latin America ’s largest economy by increasing
borrowing costs, reducing spending and curbing credit expansion.
The measures will slow growth to 4 percent this year from 7.5
percent in 2010, the fastest pace in more than two decades,
according to a central bank survey of economists published May
30.  Today’s report shows that “inflation risks remain high”
as the economy grows near its full potential, said  Zeina Latif ,
a senior economist with RBS Securities Inc. in Sao Paulo.  Inflation breached the upper-limit of the official  target 
range for the first time since 2005 in April, when prices rose
6.51 percent. The government targets inflation of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  ‘Work Ahead of Us’  The central bank raised its benchmark interest rate a
quarter of a percentage point to 12 percent in April, after half
point increases at its previous two meetings this year. In the
minutes of their meeting, policy makers said they would keep
raising borrowing costs for a “sufficiently long” period to
bring inflation back to the mid-point of its target in 2012.  “We have work ahead of us in order to consistently anchor
and bring inflation to the 4.5 percent target,” central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said May 19. The central bank’s
economic policy director, Carlos Hamilton, said May 20 that the
economy will need to slow further to get inflation back to
target, requiring “arduous work” and a “big effort” from the
central bank.  First-quarter growth was led by a 3.3 percent increase in
the agricultural sector, and 2.2 percent growth in industry. The
service sector expanded 1.1 percent.  Investment spending rose 8.8 percent from a year earlier,
the report said.  ‘Moderate’ Pace  Brazil ’s expansion has shown signs of slowing since then.
Industrial production slumped 2.1 percent in April from March,
the biggest contraction since 2008, and  consumer confidence  fell
in May to its lowest level in more than a year. Average real
wages fell 1.8 percent in April from March.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said growth will slow in the
second quarter, when measures taken to slow the economy will
have their biggest impact.  The economy is growing at a more “moderate” pace than it
was last year, Mantega said on a conference call today.  Tombini issued a statement on the central bank’s website
saying the figures show the Brazilian economy expanding at “a
rhythm that is more consistent with internal and external
equilibrium.” Development Minister Fernando Pimentel said he
didn’t see a need for further interest rate increases.  Japan  Quake  The slowdown may have been caused by temporary supply
disruptions such as the earthquake in Japan, Latif said.  “It’s too early to celebrate,” Latif said, speaking by
telephone from Sao Paulo.  Consumer spending growth slowed to 0.64 percent in the
first quarter from the previous three month period, down from
2.35 percent in the fourth quarter. This could be due to the
government’s measures to cool credit growth, or could be a
natural moderation from the “excesses” of the fourth quarter,
Latif said.  The Bovespa index fell as much as 0.9 percent after a
report from the U.S. Labor Department showed U.S. payrolls
increased by a less-than-projected 54,000 last month.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded on the  Sao Paulo  exchange, fell 2
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 12.47 percent.
Traders are betting the central bank will raise borrowing costs
0.25 percentage point at its June 7-8 meeting, according to
Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures.  The real has gained 47 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
since the start of 2009, the second-best performance among 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Australian
dollar. The currency appreciated 0.1 percent to 1.5731 per
dollar at 1:41 p.m. New York time.  Brazil overtook  Italy  last year to become the world’s
seventh-largest economy, according to the  International Monetary
Fund .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Ragir in Sao Paulo at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  