-- 
Buy United Therapeutics Calls to Bet on Drug Data, Goldman Says

-- B y   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 
2011-06-03T13:17:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/buy-united-therapeutics-calls-to-bet-on-drug-data-goldman-says.html
United Therapeutics Corp. (UTHR)  shares are
likely to rise when data from a drug trial come out, which is
expected this month, and options are a good way to bet on
potential gains, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Investors should buy United Therapeutics July $65 calls,
according to Goldman options strategists Katherine Fogertey and
 John Marshall . They cited Terence Flynn, Goldman’s analyst on
the company, who sees a 75 percent chance of a positive outcome
from a Phase 3 trial of an oral version of the Remodulin drug
and rates the stock a “buy.” Shares of the  Silver Spring ,
Maryland-based company fell 0.7 percent to $63.11 yesterday.  “We see calls as attractive to own versus stock,” the New
York-based strategists said, using Flynn’s estimate that the
stock could trade at $82 if oral Remodulin is successful, or
fall to $58 if it fails. “Our analyst’s upside is stronger than
options imply” given volatility levels, they wrote. June
implied volatility is 102 percent, while July’s is 77 percent
and August’s is 63 percent, they said.  United Therapeutics has risen 20 percent in the past year,
compared with a 27 percent gain by the Standard & Poor’s MidCap
400 Index. The company’s price-to-earnings ratio is 34.1,
compared with 21.3 for the index. The stock has declined 11
percent since April 27, after United Therapeutics reported
first-quarter revenue and adjusted earnings-per-share that were
below analyst estimates.  “Following approval, our analyst views United Therapeutics
as a strong merger-and-acquisition candidate, keeping us from
recommending longer-dated options, despite the lower implied
volatility,” Fogertey and Marshall said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joanna Ossinger in  New York  at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 