-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Falls as U.S. Hydro Production Cuts Demand

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-06-03T19:17:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/canadian-natural-gas-falls-as-u-s-hydro-production-cuts-demand.html
Canadian natural gas for July
delivery fell amid forecasts that higher electricity output from
hydro projects in the U.S. Northwest will pare demand for
imports of the fuel.  Snowpack in the Northwest is 28 percent above normal,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Higher snowpack results
in more water held behind dams along major river systems like
the Columbia and allows increased hydro production. Spectra
Energy’s Westcoast pipeline today lifted an  order to reduce
flows  on its line to the Northwest as flows backed up in the
region this week.  “With the beginning of the peak 2011 Pacific Northwest
hydro season West Coast Canadian gas imports will be
declining,” said  Stephen Smith , an energy analyst and president
of Stephen Smith Energy Associates in Natchez, Mississippi. This
hydro season is “expected to be the strongest since 1999,” he
said.  Alberta gas for July delivery fell 7 cents, or 1.7
percent, to C$4.02 per gigajoule ($3.18 per million British
thermal units) as of 2:30 p.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX, 
a Canadian Internet market. Gas traded on the exchange is
shipped to users in  Canada  and the U.S., and is priced on
TransCanada Corp.’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for July delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell 8.7 cents, or 1.8 percent, to settle at $4.707 per
million Btu.  Spot Prices Gain  Gas for prompt delivery at U.S. trading points gained amid
forecasts of hot weather in the Midwest.  Chicago ’s high will
reach 84 degrees Fahrenheit (29 Celsius) tomorrow, about 8
degrees higher than normal, according to AccuWeather Inc. in
State College, Pennsylvania. Cooling demand across the U.S. will
exceed normal by 24 percent for the next week, Belton, Missouri-
based Weather Derivatives said.  Gas at the Alliance Pipeline delivery point near Chicago
rose 3.71 cents to $4.8166 per million Btu on the
 Intercontinental Exchange . Alliance is an express line that can
carry about 1.5 billion cubic feet a day to the Midwest from
western Canada.  At the Kingsgate point on the border of  Idaho  and British
Columbia, gas gained 4.5 cents to $4.4771, according to ICE. At
Malin,  Oregon , where Canadian gas is traded for California
markets, gas was up 5.13 cents to $4.5788.  Volume on  TransCanada’s   Alberta  system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.9 billion cubic
feet as of 1 p.m. in New York, 22 million above target.  Flow Rates  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.83 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.46 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 889 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.41 billion cubic feet today, about 61 percent of its
capacity of 2.3 billion.  The volume on  Spectra’s  British Columbia system, which
gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for delivery
to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.89 billion
cubic feet at 1:20 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 