-- 
Harper Plans Deficit Cuts With Investment for Canada Growth

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-06-03T21:22:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/canada-seeks-growth-with-foreign-capital-trade-pacts-in-throne-speech.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper
outlined a program for his freshly seated parliamentary majority
today that includes plans to accelerate deficit reduction,
diversify trade and attract more foreign capital to protect the
country from being damaged by a faltering U.S. recovery.  Harper, the first Conservative to govern with a majority in
two decades, announced his agenda in the  Speech from the Throne ,
the ceremonial opening of a new legislative session in Ottawa. A
budget will follow June 6.  “The global economy remains fragile, and risks to our
recovery persist,” Harper said in the speech, which by
tradition was read in the Senate by the country’s governor
general, David Johnston. Creating jobs and economic growth
remain the government’s top priority, it said.  The speech shows the priorities for Harper’s majority
government, his first. It repeats policies advanced in Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s March 22 budget, which wasn’t passed
before the May 2 election, as well as promises made during the
campaign.  In the speech, Harper pledged to eliminate the deficit one
year earlier than planned by reviewing  government spending  to
find savings. In the March  fiscal plan , the government promised
to eliminate the deficit by the fiscal year beginning April
2015.  Welcoming Investment  Harper also said his government would allow foreign
investment “that benefits Canada,” without specifying
industries. The last throne speech mentioned lifting foreign-
ownership restrictions in the satellite and telecommunications
sectors. Harper also promised to complete a free-trade agreement
with the European Union by 2012 and with  India  by 2013, as the
party  pledged  during the election campaign.  The government also said it will move forward with
“willing partners” on establishing a national regulator for
the country’s financial markets. Several provinces, including
Quebec and  Alberta , have opposed the proposal and the  Supreme
Court  has been asked to rule on whether the government has the
constitutional authority to pass the law.  Successive minority governments introduced legislation
three times to impose tougher copyright restrictions on music,
films and other works, only to have the bills expire without
being passed. In today’s speech, the government said it will
seek “swift passage” of a new law.  Structural Policies  Canada’s government now has “the consensus through a
majority in order to put these structural medium and long-term
policies together,” Jose Angel Gurria, secretary-general of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, said in a
June 3 Bloomberg interview in Ottawa.  Harper, 52, also reiterated a promise to work with  Canada ’s
13 provinces and territories to implement a new system that
would allow employers to offer pension plans that would be
administered by financial institutions. The opposition  New
Democratic Party  has called on the government to enhance the
 Canada Pension Plan , a public pension system.  The speech spoke of long-term fiscal problems facing the
nation. “Canada’s workforce is aging, and it will no longer
grow as it has in the past,” it said. “This demographic
challenge will impact our economic future and put long-term
pressures on our pension and health systems that must be
addressed.”  The government said it will continue to increase health
transfers to the provinces at an annual growth rate of six
percent, once a deal with the provinces expires in 2014.  ‘Number of Disappointments’  The speech contained “quite a number of disappointments,”
Opposition New  Democratic Party  Leader  Jack Layton  said. “We
didn’t hear anything about real  job creation ” or  climate
change , he said.  Interim Liberal leader Bob Rae said the government’s agenda
has an “air of complacency” and mostly repeats promises
already made by the government, while not addressing long-term
economic and social challenges.  During the speech, a woman stood on the floor of the Senate
and held a sign saying “Stop Harper.” She was removed from the
chamber. Brigette Marcelle, who said she is a 21-year-old page,
issued a statement calling for the government’s agenda to be
“stopped with creative action and civil disobedience.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at   targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 