-- 
Matching Cancer Drugs to Gene Mutations Raises Survival Odds

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-06-04T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/cancer-trials-matching-drugs-to-mutations-boost-odds-of-success.html
Doctors are treating cancer according
to the genetic aberrations found in patients’ tumors, not just
where they’re found in the body, an approach that may boost the
odds of survival, according to a study.  Researchers from M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston
found that more than one in four patients who had no treatment
options left improved after getting a drug tied to the genetic
flaw fueling their cancer -- whether the tumor originated in 
the lung, breast or other organ -- compared with just one in
20 who got standard care. The report, the first to validate the 
method’s success, was presented yesterday at the  American Society 
of Clinical Oncology  meeting in  Chicago .  Advances in tumor biology are leaving behind the one-size-
fits-all approach to treating a disease that kills 8 million
people worldwide each year, said Harold Varmus, director of the
 National Cancer Institute . He has started a center for cancer
genomics to improve molecular understanding of the disease.  “This is going to be a radical change in the way we
approach cancer care,” Varmus said in an interview. “There is
no doubt that increasingly genetic information is going to be
important in making decisions about how to treat patients,
whether we are using old drugs or new drugs.”  Linda Barth, a 60-year-old former magazine editor in
Houston, was ready for a new approach, having exhausted all the
approved drugs for her endometrial cancer diagnosed in 2006.
Barth tried an aggressive combination of three medicines that
shrank the tumors in her lungs and neck and made her so weak she
couldn’t walk. A second experimental drug provided no benefit.  Cancer Genetics  By homing in on the genetics of Barth’s cancer, researchers
found she was one of 460 clinical trial patients among 1,140
screened who had a known molecular twist that helped the
malignant cells grow.  Apostolia-Maria Tsimberidou, her doctor at M.D. Anderson,
started Barth on a trial of two experimental drugs from
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  in January that targeted a gene called KRAS,
which when mutated has the potential to cause normal cells to
become cancerous. Her tumors have since shrunk 68 percent,
according to CT scan results in May, she said.  “They know my DNA -- all of these treatments they have
designed for me,” Barth said in a telephone interview. “Who
knows if it will cure me? If it just stabilizes my cancer and
prevents it from growing, I can live with that.”  The M.D. Anderson clinical trial program uses molecular
tests to identify the biological pathways that trigger cancer,
spur its growth or strengthen its resistance to treatment.
Researchers look for mutations in a dozen  genes  including KRAS,
PIK3CA, NRAS, BRAF, CKIT and EGFR.  120 Studies  After patients are assigned to one of the center’s 120
studies using experimental medicines that target their
individual cancer’s traits, they are compared with similar
people who don’t get matched therapy. Reasons for not getting a
matched therapy might include travel difficulties or lack of
insurance.  The trials tend to be a last-ditch effort to find a therapy
that works for each patient. Participants in the trials failed
an average of four previous drugs.  Other cancer centers are doing similar work, often looking
at one tumor type or for a specific mutation. At Memorial Sloan-
Kettering Cancer Center in  New York , everyone with metastatic
lung or colon cancer undergoes tests for dozens of variations
that may influence how they respond to treatment, said
oncologist Leonard Saltz.  Speeding Development  While the approach may benefit more patients who enter
cancer studies and speed drug development, it narrows the number
of people who qualify for experimental treatment -- and the
potential size of the market, said Saltz, who is head of the
colorectal oncology section at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering.   “Historically it has been difficult to get drug companies
to be interested in this type of approach because it potentially
limits their market,” he said in a telephone interview. “If
you have a drug that works in 10 percent of the population but
you can sell it to everybody, that has been a widely successful
business model.”  The targeted approach may also save an experimental drug
from failure.  Initial studies of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s crizotinib included
patients with any kind of cancer. Researchers quickly realized
that the three patients who responded to treatment, out of 37,
had a defect in a gene known as ALK that is key to the growth
and survival of tumor cells, said Mace Rothenberg, senior vice
president of clinical development and medical affairs for New
York-based Pfizer’s oncology unit.  Gene Defect  The company decided in 2009 to focus solely on lung cancer
patients with the ALK mutation, a group that makes up just 5
percent of the lung cancer population. The bet paid off. The
company filed for regulatory approval in the U.S. based on its
early trials, with data showing dramatic response to treatment
in the properly targeted patients. Pfizer has two larger studies
under way.  Rothenberg said he was concerned that a drug that may only
benefit 5 percent of patients might not be commercially viable.  “Fortunately, my colleagues in commercial development
immediately recognized that, given the high incidence of non-
small-cell  lung cancer , it still accounted for a considerable
number of patients,” Rothenberg said.  Matching tumors to treatment isn’t a magic bullet. The
treatment stopped working in the M.D. Anderson trials after 5.2
months for those getting targeted care, compared with 2.2 months
for patients treated with unmatched drug therapy.  ‘More Effort’  “It is going to take a lot more effort and investigation
to get beyond this,” Otis Brawley, the chief medical officer at
the  American Cancer Society , said in a telephone interview. “If
the time to treatment failure is truly 5.2 months versus 2.2
months, I see it as progress, but it is still not satisfying.”  Eventually researchers will need to combine targeted
treatments to cut off all the avenues cancer uses to grow, not
just those researchers can find now using genetic and molecular
tests, Brawley said. Advanced technology is identifying a
dizzying array of nuances in cancer growth and development that
suggest tumors within a specific type of cancer have many ways
to evade treatment and flourish, he said.  Less than 5 percent of adult cancer patients are in
clinical trials. Often the reason is the design, with
researchers giving 1,000 patients an experimental drug that
benefits only 10 percent of them, said  John Marshall , chief of
hematology and oncology and director of clinical research at
 Georgetown University ’s  Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center  in
 Washington .  ‘Freaked-Out World’  “When you are in the trenches in a clinic and you are
afraid you are going to die, and the doctor wants to flip a coin
to see what treatment you should get, that’s another level of
uncertainty in a freaked-out world,” Marshall said in an
interview. “We’re hoping to make it much easier. If we offer
them a gene test that might inform a treatment decision, they
are totally engaged.”  Most patients don’t have the option now. It’s easier to
give chemotherapy that is unlikely to work than to do a genetic
analysis, Marshall said.  “We are getting smarter, but not fast enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  