-- 
Mapuches to Press Chile Case Before Human Rights Tribunal

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-06-03T19:50:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/chile-supreme-court-reduces-sentences-for-mapuche-prisoners-1-.html
The Mapuche Indian community will
make an appeal to the Inter-American Court of Human Rights after
 Chile ’s  Supreme Court  sentenced four activists to prison today,
a spokeswoman for the activists said.  In a decision handed down by justice Nibaldo Segura, the
Supreme Court reduced prison sentences to three to four years
for attempted murder. Hector Llaitul, Ramon Llanquileo, Jose
Huenuche and Jonathan Huillical faced as long as 25 years in
prison for the alleged crimes of attempted murder of public
prosecutor Mario Elgueta and robbery, according to a March 22
judiciary statement.  The four have been on a hunger strike for more than 80 days
partly to protest legal proceedings that included components of
anti-terrorist laws the state had promised not to apply,
Natividad Llanquileo, a spokeswoman for the four, said. The
Mapuche people will fight the ruling because it upholds the use
of anti-terror tactics in court proceedings, she told reporters.  “This will become international,” Llanquileo said while
marching in downtown Santiago to protest the ruling. “They
didn’t just condemn four men today; they condemned all Mapuche
people.”  The application of anti-terrorist laws, which include the
use of anonymous witnesses, may handicap the defense in these
kinds of cases,  Ana Piquer , executive director of human rights
advocate  Amnesty International  in Chile, said today.  “Chilean legislation and policies must adapt to
international human rights standards,” Piquer said by telephone
before the ruling was announced.  Anti-Terrorist Laws  Chile’s government last year amended anti-terrorist laws as
part of negotiations to end protests by Mapuche groups, agreeing
to remove civil cases from military tribunals.  The government fulfilled its agreement and in this case
cannot dictate the actions of the judiciary, deputy presidential
secretary Claudio Alvarado said in an April 26  statement  posted
on the government website.  Lawyers will study whether to take the case to the Inter-
American Court of Human Rights, which is based in  Costa Rica  and
is part of the  Organization of American States , Llaitul’s
lawyer, Pablo Ortega, told reporters after today’s ruling.  “They reduced the overall sentence, which undoubtedly
makes the family happier,” he said. “However, they have left
the use of anonymous witnesses in effect, which is in violation
of international human rights treaties.”  Protests  The four will spend eight to 14 years in prison because the
supreme court didn’t overturn a sentence for robbery.  Mapuche protests go beyond today’s ruling, as members of
the community believe forestry companies like Forestal Mininco
SA and power company Empresa Nacional de Electricidad SA
encroach on their land, Llanquileo said yesterday.  “We will have to continue with our protests to defend our
rights,” she said in a telephone interview before the court
ruling. “We can’t remain silent.”  Endesa Chile, as the power company is known, has invested
$15.5 million to compensate indigenous communities in the Region
of Bio Bio, the company said in an e-mailed statement in
response to questions from Bloomberg News. The company is
committed to working with local communities, it said.  Forestal Mininco didn’t respond to a telephone message
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  