-- 
China Stocks Erase Weekly Drop as Automakers, Solar Energy Shares Advance

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-03T07:35:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/china-s-stock-index-futures-advance-on-speculation-losses-were-excessive.html
China ’s stocks rebounded from a four-
month low, erasing a weekly decline by the benchmark index, as
investors speculated inflation may ease in coming months,
reducing the need for further tightening measures.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. led gains by developers after
Fan Gang, former central bank adviser, said inflation will
probably peak at the end of June. Jiangling Motors Corp. paced
an advance by automakers after increasing vehicle sales last
month.  Shanghai  Chaori Solar Energy Science & Technology Co.
rose after the China Securities Journal said the government
plans to double solar-power generation capacity.  “There’s limited room for declines now as earnings are
still growing, though possibly at a slower pace,” said  Zhang Qi , an analyst at Haitong Securities Co. in Shanghai. “There’s
some speculation that inflation might peak in the second half of
the year and that’ll help improve the  market sentiment .”  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 22.8, or 0.8 percent, to
2,728.02 at the 3 p.m. close, climbing from the lowest level
since Jan. 25. The gauge has risen 0.7 percent this week, the
biggest gain in about two months. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  added 1
percent to 2,986.35 today. China’s markets will be closed on
June 6 for a holiday.  The Shanghai Composite has plunged 11 percent from this
year’s high on April 18 on concern growth in the world’s second-
largest economy is slowing after the central bank raised the
reserve-requirement ratio for banks 11 times and boosted
 interest rates  four times to cool inflation. A drop of more than
10 percent signals to some investors that the market has entered
a correction. The stock gauge has fallen 2.9 percent this year,
extending 2010’s 14 percent decline.  Equity Valuations  Stocks on the Shanghai Composite trade at about 15.3 times
reported earnings, compared with a peak of about 52 times in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge’s
relative strength index was 29.3 yesterday, below the 30 point
level that indicates an asset may rebound in value.  A gauge tracking developers in the Shanghai Composite rose
0.9 percent from a September low. Poly Real Estate increased 1.6
percent to 9.19 yuan. China Vanke Co., the nation’s largest
developer, added 0.9 percent to 7.79 yuan.  Commodity prices have stabilized as tighter monetary
policies over the past eight months have absorbed excess
liquidity, the  China Daily  cited Fan Gang as saying in  Hong
Kong .  China’s stock market won’t stabilize until inflation peaks,
 Jing Ulrich , Hong Kong-based chairman of global markets, China
at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said at a briefing in Beijing
yesterday. Government policies may be more accommodating in the
fourth quarter after economic growth moderates in the previous
quarter, Ulrich said.  New High  The central bank may raise interest rates ahead of the
holiday on June 6 because consumer prices are expected to rise
to a new high in May, the Shanghai Daily said May 31, citing UBS
AG.  China needs to maintain stable long-term economic growth of
8 percent to 9 percent to prevent the buildup of bad loans, said
 Li Yang , a former adviser to the nation’s central bank.  “We must have stable GDP, something like 8 percent or 9
percent,” Li, also vice president of the  Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences , said in a speech delivered at  Tsinghua
University  in Beijing late yesterday. “Once the economy
fluctuates, there will be non-performing loans.”  Jiangling Motors, the commercial vehicle partner with Ford
Motor Co. gained 1.1 percent to 25.60 yuan after saying it sold
16,765 vehicles in May, a 6.6 percent increase from a year ago.  Other automakers also rose. SAIC Motor Corp. climbed 2.7
percent, the most since April 29, to 17.44 yuan. Beiqi Foton
Motor Co. added 1 percent to 8.78 yuan.  Auto Sales  China’s passenger car sales rose 25 percent to 885,800
units in May from a year earlier, while they fell 11 percent
from April, the China Securities Journal reported today, citing
the China Automotive Technology & Research Center.  Total vehicle sales gained 30 percent last month to 1.19
million units from a year earlier and fell 14 percent from
April, the newspaper cited the center as saying.  Chaori  Solar Energy  advanced 1.4 percent to 18.65 yuan.
Zhejiang Sunflower Light Energy Science & Technology Co. climbed
2.6 percent to 21.32 yuan.  China plans to double solar-power generation capacity to 10
gigawatts by the end of 2015, the China Securities Journal
reported today, citing an unidentified person.  An industry development plan for the five years through
2015 has been submitted to the State Council for approval, the
Beijing-based newspaper reported.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  