-- 
China Foreign Stocks Board ‘Very Close,’ Shanghai’s Fang Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-03T05:12:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/china-foreign-stocks-board-very-close-.html
China  is “very close” to starting a
board for the listing of overseas companies in  Shanghai  and
global manufacturers will have priority, according to the head
of Shanghai’s financial services office.  The so-called international board will be a success because
of pent-up demand for “high-quality” companies, Fang Xinghai,
director general of the office, said in an interview today at
Bloomberg’s Shanghai office. Coca-Cola Co., the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, said this week it’s in talks to list shares in
Shanghai, while HSBC Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s biggest bank, said
in June 2010 it aims to raise a “significant amount” of funds.  “Manufacturing is the basic and most important for the
economy,” Fang said. “The other industries like finance are
all serving this main body.”  Shanghai Stock Exchange  officials are seeking to lure
multinational companies as part of a drive to build the city
into a global financial center by 2020. General Electric Co.,
Unilever Plc and Volkswagen AG are among the multinationals that
have expressed interest in listing on the board, the National
Business Daily reported in July 2010, citing He Zhaofeng, a
managing partner at Ernst & Young LLP’s greater China operations.
While overseas companies can sell stock in  Hong Kong , they’re
barred from doing so in mainland China.  China is “coming closer” to starting a board for the
listing of overseas companies in Shanghai,  Shang Fulin , chairman
of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, said on May 20.
He didn’t give a specific timetable.  ‘Very Close’  The government may approve a board for overseas companies
on the mainland by the end of June and the first listing may
occur as soon as October, Caixin Century magazine reported May
30, citing an unidentified investment banker.  “As chairman Shang has said, it’s coming closer, it must
be very close,” Fang said.  The government is introducing financial reforms to revive
investor interest in the nation’s equities after the Shanghai
Composite Index slid 14 percent last year, the worst among the
world’s biggest stock markets. The Shanghai stocks gauge has
fallen 3.7 percent this year. Even with the slump, the measure
trades at 12.4 times estimated earnings, compared with 11.2
times for a gauge of emerging-market companies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Listing in China would allow foreign companies to benefit
from higher valuations and give them access to the Chinese
currency to fund their expansion in the world’s second-biggest
economy, Arjuna Mahendran, Singapore-based head of investment
strategy for Asia at  HSBC Private Bank , overseeing $460 billion
globally, said June 1. “This would be attractive for Chinese
domestic investors as it would give them more diversity in the
type of companies they can invest in,” he said.  Business Development  The Shanghai exchange has been trying to catch up with
global rivals in developing more sophisticated financial
products as the stock market grows to become the world’s third-
largest in terms of market capitalization. Shanghai introduced
stock-index futures in April 2010, while an exchange official
said this March China plans to more than double the number of
exchange-traded funds they offer this year.  “We are interested in exploring the opportunity of
listing our stock on the Shanghai Stock Exchange,” Geoff Walsh,
Coca-Cola’s Hong Kong-based public affairs and communications
director for  Asia , said on June 1. HSBC wants to make its shares
“easily tradable in Shanghai” and the sale should reflect the
size of the group, its chief executive officer said last June.  “The focus should be if the international board will be a
success rather than the valuations or who’s going to be listed
first,” Fang said. “It will be a success if issuers feel the
listings in China will help their business development and the
stocks are well accepted by Chinese investors.”  --Irene Shen, Rishaad Salamat, with assistance from Melody Fu in
Hong Kong. Editors: Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Irene Shen at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  