-- 
China’s Money Rate Falls by Most Since March on Fresh Liquidity

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-03T03:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/china-s-money-rate-falls-by-most-since-march-on-fresh-liquidity.html
China ’s money-market rate was headed
for the biggest weekly decline since March as the central bank
injected the most cash into the financial system in five weeks.  The People’s Bank of China added a net 81 billion yuan
($12.5 billion) of capital this week, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The rate also dropped on concern monetary
tightening will cause a “hard landing” for the world’s second-
biggest economy, according to Chen Qiwei, a senior bond trader
at Shenzhen Development Bank Co. in Shanghai.  “The repo rate is down this week because of the PBOC’s
cash injection,” he said. “Investors are also getting worried
tightening measures are causing  China’s economy  to slow too
much.”  The seven-day repurchase rate dropped 89 basis points, or
0.89 percentage point, this week to 3.50 percent as of 10:54 a.m.
in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. The rate fell two basis
points today.  The central bank has raised benchmark  interest rates  four
times and boosted lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios by three
percentage points since September. There is “a high chance”
the monetary authority will raise its benchmark rates by a
quarter of a percentage point over the coming long weekend,
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based economist at Credit
Agricole CIB, wrote yesterday in a research note. Financial
markets in China will be closed on June 6 for holidays.  One-year interest-rate swaps, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, gained one basis point
this week to 3.45 percent and were unchanged from yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.83 percent government bond due January
2018 rose two basis points this week to 3.65 percent, according
to the Interbank Funding Center. The rate climbed one basis
point today.  -- Andrea Wong . Editors: Andrew Janes,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at +886-2-7719-1579 or
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 