-- 
China Statistics Official Steps Down on Suspicion of Leaking Economic Data

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-03T09:31:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/china-statistics-official-steps-down-on-suspicion-of-leaking-economic-data.html
An official from  China ’s statistics
office is under investigation for leaking economic indicators as
the world’s fastest-growing major economy seeks to curb early
disclosure of market-moving data.  One male official is involved in the probe, Liu Guoning, a
press officer for the National Bureau of Statistics, said today
by phone, declining to name the person. Officials from the
bureau and central bank left their posts and may face criminal
charges relating to data leaks, the Economic Information Daily,
a newspaper run by the government’s Xinhua News Agency, reported
earlier on its website, citing an unidentified person.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, is battling to
curtail selective disclosure that can disrupt markets and give
an advantage to investors with early access. Numbers for China’s
 consumer price index  and economic growth rate regularly
circulated in the market and media in the days before the
official releases over the past year.  The data leakage “has been quite embarrassing for the
government, so it seems they are making a good effort to crack
down on that,” said Alaistair Chan, a Sydney-based economist
with Moody’s Economy.com. “This should be welcome by the
public, though some of the traders may not like it.”  A press officer at the People’s Bank of China said he
couldn’t comment immediately.  China’s statistics bureau said April 15 it condemned leaks
of economic data and those responsible will be punished. The
nation’s first-quarter growth figure and other monthly economic
data including the inflation rate were reported a day before the
official release.  ‘Data Corruption’  Phoenix TV’s website reported 10 economic indicators on
April 14, citing an unidentified source. Figures released
afterwards by China’s central bank and the National Bureau of
Statistics matched nine of the numbers.  An accurate reading for the consumer price index was
circulated in the market and press reports before release for
five of six months through April. It’s become one of the most
sought-after numbers because of China’s battle to curb
inflation, which jumped to a 32-month high in March.  Ye Qing, deputy head of the statistics bureau in Hubei
province, said he was “shocked” by today’s report in the
Economic Information Daily.  “This is data corruption,” he said in a phone interview.
“Data leaking violates the statistics law and leaves the bureau
with a bad reputation.”  Economic indicators published by the agency include gross
domestic product, released quarterly, as well as monthly
industrial production and the  producer price index .  System Improvements  Government departments, institutions and individuals have a
responsibility to keep state secrets,  Sheng Laiyun , a spokesman
for the statistics, said at an April 15 briefing. The bureau is
studying ways to improve the system, including shortening the
time-frame between production of the information and its release
so as to reduce risks, Sheng said.  In June last year, Reuters reported figures for consumer
prices, exports and new loans, which it said were divulged by an
unidentified government official at an investor conference.
Reuters cited three people who attended the event without
publishing their names. Export and new loan data are released by
other government bodies.  Stocks Rally  The report spurred the biggest gain in the Shanghai
Composite Index in two weeks and set off a stock rally from
 Europe  to the U.S. Official releases later matched or were close
to the numbers. The National Bureau of Statistics said at the
time it would investigate the leak.  “Improving controls on data releases is good news for fair
market competition,” Li Cui, an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in  Hong Kong , said today. China is “determined”
to avoid future data leaks as they “undermine professional
efforts and add confusion to the market,” Cui said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  