-- 
Chiquita Fails to Halt Suit Over Colombia Torture, Murder

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-06-03T18:58:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/chiquita-fails-to-halt-suit-over-colombia-torture-murder.html
Chiquita Brands International Inc. (CQB) ,
owner of the namesake banana label, failed to halt U.S. lawsuits
brought by thousands of Colombians who said they or their
relatives were tortured or killed by militias the company paid.  U.S. District Judge Kenneth Marra in  West Palm Beach ,
Florida, today denied Chiquita’s motion to dismiss some of the
claims brought under the Alien Tort Statute and the Torture
Victim Protection Act. The civil suits, which have been joined
into a single case, seek compensation for the victims.  The Cincinnati-based company was fined $25 million by the
U.S. after pleading guilty in March 2007 to engaging in
transactions with a terrorist group for paying Colombian
paramilitary militias $1.7 million from 1997 to 2004. No
executives were charged.  The seven complaints consolidated before Marra cover
“several thousand” plaintiffs alleging their family members
were killed or tortured by Colombian paramilitary groups in
banana-growing regions of the country, according to today’s
order. The paramilitaries targeted trade unionists and leftist
activists, the judge said.  “While the court allowed some claims to move forward, it is
important to understand that at this stage of the proceedings,
the court is required by law to treat plaintiffs’ outrageous and
false allegations as if they were true,” Ed Loyd, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Plaintiffs now have the burden of
proving these allegations.”  Rejected Arguments  While dismissing some of the Colombians’ claims, Marra also
rejected some of Chiquita’s arguments, including that the case
should be dismissed because it could have foreign policy
implications. He also rejected Chiquita’s assertion that
allowing the claims would give rise to thousands more suits
under the Alien Tort Statute.  “Under Chiquita’s argument, an offender who commits a
small number of international-law violations would be subject to
ATS claims in federal court, while an offender who commits
thousands of offenses, thereby making any lawsuit more complex,
could escape liability,” he said.  In its statement announcing the 2007 plea, the  Justice
Department  said Chiquita began making payments to a coalition of
militias after a meeting in 1997 with the group’s leader, who
implied that failure to pay could result in physical harm to
people and property at a Chiquita unit in  Colombia .  ‘No Allegation’  “There is no allegation that Chiquita itself committed any
of the crimes perpetrated by the Colombian terrorist groups,”
Loyd said in today’s statement. “The only allegation is that
Chiquita should be held responsible for these crimes by virtue
of the money that it was forced to pay.”  He said the company will defend itself against the
remaining claims.  “Chiquita’s already admitted doing what we say they did,”
Terry Collingsworth, one of the lead lawyers for the plaintiffs,
said after the judge issued the order. The matter will now move
toward trial or settlement, Collingsworth said.  Chiquita fell 48 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $14.10 at 2:49
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
gained 4 percent this year before today.  The case is In Re: Chiquita Brands International, Inc.,
Alien Tort Statute and Shareholders Derivative Litigation, 08-
1916, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Florida  ( Fort
Lauderdale ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Woolner  in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 