-- 
Chrysler’s Marchionne Says IPO of U.S. Automaker Isn’t Likely Before 2012

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-06-03T19:22:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/chrysler-s-marchionne-says-ipo-of-u-s-automaker-isn-t-likely-before-2012.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , needs more time to show strong
financial results before holding an initial public offering, the
companies’ top executive said.  “We need an additional track record of performance and
probably a better equity market than I’m seeing today,”  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both automakers, told
reporters today in Toledo,  Ohio .  Chrysler needs all of this year before an IPO, and there
would be “no benefit” in holding one in 2011, he said.  Marchionne is pushing Chrysler this year to raise its
global sales by 32 percent to 2 million vehicles and turn an
annual profit of $200 million to $500 million. Chrysler last
month posted a first-quarter net profit of $116 million, its
first since emerging from bankruptcy in 2009, and global sales
during that period increased by 18 percent.  Marchionne’s comments came after President  Barack Obama 
visited the Chrysler plant that builds Jeep Wrangler sport-
utility vehicles. The U.S. Treasury and Fiat announced a deal
yesterday for the Italian automaker to pay $500 million for the
U.S. government’s remaining 6 percent stake in Chrysler.  The Treasury said it will receive an additional $60 million
as part of an agreement for Fiat to acquire the government’s
rights to buy the United Auto Workers retiree health-care trust
fund’s stake in Chrysler. The Canadian government will get $15
million from that part of the transaction, the Treasury said
yesterday in a statement.  Fiat’s Stake  Buying the U.S. stake will raise Fiat’s holding in  Auburn
Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler to 52 percent. Marchionne has
said he expects to receive an additional 5 percent stake in the
fourth quarter in return for developing a fuel-efficient car for
Chrysler.  Chrysler wouldn’t need to go forward with an IPO if the
trust agreed to sell its stake to Fiat, Marchionne said. While
Fiat “technically has the cash” to do a deal with the trust, a
Chrysler IPO may be “the easiest way to monetize” the fund’s
stake, Marchionne said.  Fiat isn’t in negotiations to acquire the trust’s stake,
Marchionne said.  “I expect to work with them to find a way for them to exit
at the right time,” he said. “But neither Chrysler nor Fiat is
going to be pushed into a position. We’ll do it when it’s
ready.”  UAW Trust  Marchionne said he’s not sure how the trust could remain an
equity partner because it’s “not an investment fund -- they
need to satisfy the obligations to the retirees.”  The $500 million that Turin, Italy-based Fiat will pay the
U.S. government for its remaining stake puts the value of
Chrysler at more than $8 billion, Marchionne said.  Marchionne is talking with the Canadian government about
buying its holding in Chrysler.  Canada isn’t “going to get a better deal than I offered
Treasury” on a pro-rata basis, he said. “It’s the deal. I have
no other deal.”  Canada holds 1.7 percent of Chrysler, Eileen Wunderlich, a
company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  