-- 
Clearwire Dealers Say Credit Rules Dropped to Draw Customers

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-06-03T20:09:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/clearwire-dealers-say-credit-standards-dropped-to-draw-customers.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  distributors lowered
credit standards to attract thousands of new customers and
inflate subscriber numbers starting in 2009, according to three
former dealers.  Clearwire employees told distributors to sign up customers
with credit scores below the company’s standard or bypass credit
checks altogether, according to dealers including Joe Cruz and
AK Kurji. Though the practice pulled in new customers, many soon
left Clearwire, often without paying a bill, they said. In e-
mails obtained by Bloomberg News, one former Clearwire salesman
offered to override any failed credit checks to add customers.  “We would take a copy of their driver’s license and a two-
month utility bill and we would send it in for a credit
override,” said Kurji, who said he had 19 stores in Texas,
 Florida  and the West Coast. “Our numbers jumped.”  Clearwire has never authorized the practices described by
Kurji and Cruz and hasn’t had systematic problems with them,
said Mike DiGioia, a spokesman for the company.  Kurji’s staff used lower credit standards from late 2009
until this year to sign up thousands of customers, with about 60
percent of all new customers qualifying for service only through
overrides, he said. He closed his business this year after
losing money on customers who canceled their contracts, he said.  Business Risks  High customer turnover may make it more difficult for
interim Chief Executive Officer John Stanton to move the money-
losing company toward profitability and compete against the two
largest U.S. wireless operators,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless .
Revenue growth and earnings could be hurt if the Kirkland,
Washington-based company still has a high percentage of low-
credit customers, said  Jonathan Chaplin , an analyst with Credit
Suisse Group AG.  “These are customers you have to replace every month
before you grow,” Chaplin said. “The company would be growing
at a faster rate if they didn’t have churn rates as high as they
do.”  Clearwire’s revenue is projected to double to $1.26 billion
this year, as the net loss widens to $902.2 million, according
to average estimates from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company reported 6.15 million subscribers at the end of
the first quarter, up from 688,000 at the end of 2009. The
percentage of retail customers who leave each month, or churn,
rose from 2.6 percent in the first quarter of 2009 to 3 percent
or more for the past seven quarters. Verizon’s retail churn was
1.33 percent in the first quarter.  Fraud Investigators  Clearwire has fraud investigators to deal with salesmen or
independent dealers who engage in unauthorized credit practices,
said DiGioia, who wouldn’t comment on whether the company has
taken steps to tighten its credit oversight recently. The
company does have “flexibility” in its credit system so it can
offer Clearwire’s contract service to a wide group of potential
customers, he said.  “I can’t say that we had a specific program directly set
up to address this, but I can say, as a matter of corporate
governance, we do have a fraud department that works to look for
and address abuses like that,” DiGioia said.  “Everything was
set up with the best of intentions.”  Clearwire fell 30 cents, or 6.9 percent, to $4.04 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading at 4 p.m. New York time. The shares have
dropped 22 percent this year.  The company was reshaped into a high-speed wireless
provider offering 4G technology in 2008.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
took a majority equity stake in the company after folding assets
into Clearwire as part of a $3.2 billion investment in the
company with  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Comcast Corp.,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) ,
 Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Bright House Networks LLC.  Wholesale and Retail  Clearwire sells capacity on its network wholesale to
companies including Sprint and Time Warner Cable so they can
resell to consumers, and markets its own Clear service through
its own stores and independent distributors like Cruz and Kurji.
The company’s  wireless service  can be used to connect laptops
and smartphones to the Internet.  The company, which has lost money for the last ten
quarters, has backed away from building its own retail stores
after cash shortages. The wholesale business accounted for 4.86
million subscribers at the end of March, more than three
quarters of Clearwire’s total.  Cruz started selling Clearwire service at one store in 2009
and later partnered with David Raponi at a few others. They
would check credit reports for potential customers with
companies like  Equifax Inc. (EFX)  and then assign each one a letter
grade, from A to E, or N if the customer didn’t have enough
information for a score.  ‘Time Bomb’  A manager for Clearwire encouraged their staff to lower
standards to sign up customers who scored D, E or N, covering
those with the worst credit, Cruz said. The manager confirmed
the practice in an interview and agreed to discuss it on the
condition he wouldn’t be identified.  “As time went on, it became more lenient,” said Cruz, who
was a distributor for Clearwire for about a year starting in
November 2009. “It was just a time bomb.”  Cruz said the Clearwire manager approved certain customers
with low credit scores, while his employees handled others. The
practice increased commissions for salesmen and helped Clearwire
representatives meet sales goals for bonuses, Cruz said.  “Wanted to check with you and see if there’s ANY CREDIT
OVERIDES I can help you get in TODAY?” the Clearwire
representative wrote in the e-mail obtained by Bloomberg News.  Manager Approval  “I always hear from reps ‘I’m not selling because no one
can pass credit checks’,” he wrote. “The time has come for you
to call BS and on your reps (and yourself if needed!) and for
the credit excuse to END now! I will personally enter in the
credit overrides under your dealer code.”  “PS, you can thank me later for DOUBLING YOUR
COMMISSIONS!” he said in the e-mail dated March 2010.  The Clearwire manager said he thought salesmen were using
failed credit tests as an excuse for low sales numbers when, in
reality, they weren’t approaching enough potential customers. He
left the company last month, he said.  It’s up to general managers for specific Clearwire regions
to override failed credit checks, company spokesman DiGioia
said. Outside dealers like Cruz would have to send applications
to a Clearwire regional manager for approval.  Howard Kim, an independent dealer who runs 12 stores and 21
mobile kiosks in  Texas  and other states, said he has had a
different experience with Clearwire. Kim, who has been selling
the wireless service since May 2009, said about 90 percent of
his requests for credit overrides are rejected.  Clearwire gave managers leeway to sign up customers with
low credit or no credit score under certain circumstances, said
Rick Baughman, a former regional vice president for the company.  Texas Overrides  In Texas, where he and Cruz worked, many people have low or
no credit scores, because they’re immigrants without social
security numbers or lower-income workers who use cash instead of
credit cards. Because of that, people who showed they pay rent
or other bills on time could have a credit score overridden.  “In some cases, managers had the ability to override some
credit scores,” said Baughman, who said he was laid off in
November. “Depending on the day of the month and the month of
the quarter, it was encouraged.”  The overrides were practiced nationwide and were sometimes
used too often, Baughman said. After hearing about the e-mail to
Raponi and Cruz, Baughman said he tightened the credit override
policies in his market.  Raponi said his staff signed up thousands of customers by
lowering credit standards, and about 80 percent qualified for
service only through overrides.  AT&T Comparison  AT&T does at times sign up customers who don’t meet its
credit standards, said  Mark Siegel , a company spokesman, though
it then typically requires extra security such as a deposit.
Clearwire would override credit standards if potential customers
showed steady payments for utilities or other bills, Cruz said.  Last year, Clearwire installed updated software that made
it easier for dealers to sign up customers without social
security numbers, which are used in credit checks, said Cruz.  A new button appeared on Clearwire’s credit-check system
that allowed salespeople to skip the step of entering a social
security number. Instead, dealers could do a “soft” credit
check by reviewing names and birth dates, which made it easier
to approve customers, he said. Employees could also use the
records of people with similar names and better credit to pass a
prospective customer, he said.  ‘Chargebacks’  Baughman confirmed the social-security override software,
though he didn’t know of any examples of people using it to
enter false information. The button was put in because some
users were uncomfortable giving out their number, he said.  DiGioia said the option to skip the social security check
was installed because customers expressed privacy concerns.  Cruz, Raponi and Kurji say the credit practices ended up
costing them money, though they didn’t realize at the start that
would be the case. Customers who signed up for service often
left after a few months or weeks, frequently without paying any
bills. Cruz and Raponi say as many as 60 percent of their
customers were defecting in some months.  Such departures meant that dealers had to pay Clearwire
what the company called “chargebacks,” according to Cruz. They
had to repay commissions received for new customers and make up
Clearwire’s marketing costs if the customer quit his contract
within six months, Cruz said.  Dealers began discussing their problems on a website called
 clearwiresucks.com  last year. The three decided to speak
publicly this year for the first time, as they heard about
others having similar issues.  Kurji, who was told he was one of Clearwire’s top two
dealers in the nation, said he closed shop after losing more
than $500,000. He is considering a lawsuit against Clearwire, he
said. Raponi estimated he lost between $75,000 and $80,000,
while Cruz said he still owes Clearwire about $28,000.  The rising payments to Clearwire in chargebacks made it
impossible to stay in business, said Kurji.  “How am I supposed to pay for my employees?” he said.
“Now I’m bleeding money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  