-- 
Coward Says He Still Has IKOS Stake; Firm Calls That ‘Untrue’

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-06-03T16:20:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/coward-says-he-still-has-ikos-stake-firm-calls-that-untrue-.html
IKOS Asset Management Ltd. co-founder
Martin Coward disputed the firm’s claim that he no longer has an
ownership stake in the hedge fund he started 19 years ago with
his estranged wife, Elena Ambrosiadou.  Coward, who left IKOS in December 2009, said in a June 1
letter addressed to investors that he’s still litigating over
his holding in the Cyprus-based company. The note followed a May
25 letter that IKOS’s director of external relations, Sir
Michael Willcocks, wrote to clients, saying Coward ended his
involvement with the company when he stepped down.  “He has no stake in the company and has no entitlement to
the company’s profits,” Willcocks wrote. “Any claim to the
contrary is simply untrue.”  IKOS is a $2.5 billion hedge fund that relies on computer
models, rather than human investment managers, to spot
profitable trends in the prices of currencies, commodities and
interest rates. Ambrosiadou, 52, has been engaged in legal
disputes with Coward, whom she is divorcing, and former
employees of the firm since at least last year.  Spokesmen for IKOS and Ambrosiadou declined to comment on
the letters to investors and litigation between the parties. A
spokeswoman for Coward also declined to comment.  Willcock’s, in his letter to investors, said it’s his
understanding that a settlement of “family interests” has been
made. IKOS isn’t “a party to a personal dispute,” he wrote.  ‘Necessarily Entangled’  Coward, in his letter to IKOS clients, said the hedge fund
is “necessarily entangled” in his “personal dispute” with
Ambrosiadou because they both still have an ownership stake in
the company. He and Ambrosiadou haven’t resolved their “family
issues,” he wrote.  News organizations last month reported allegations from
former fund manager Tobin Maxwell Gover that Ambrosiadou hired a
woman to spy on him. IKOS responded in a May 24 press release,
saying it used “legitimate” investigative efforts to protect
its business. The firm also accused Coward of trying to pouch
employees and start a “rival” hedge fund while he remained an
IKOS director, according to the statement.  Coward denied any wrongdoing in a May 24 press release.  The IKOS FX Fund gained 35 percent in the 12 months ending
April 29 and the IKOS Futures Fund increased 30 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Similar funds rose 10
percent on average over the same period, according to an index
from Paris-based Newedge Group.  Coward, in his letter to IKOS clients, said Ambrosiadou and
IKOS have declined his offer to arbitrate disagreements between
the parties.  Damages Sought  IKOS won’t pursue arbitration until Coward acknowledges
that “significant damages” are owed to the firm, Willcocks
wrote in his letter. The letters sent to investors by Coward and
Willcocks were reported earlier today by the Financial Times and
obtained by Bloomberg News.  In its May 24 statement, IKOS said it hired surveillance
specialists to conduct “legitimate” investigations of former
employees including Coward. Willcocks, in his letter, said all
steps taken by IKOS “have the sole aim of protecting its  trade
secrets .”  Coward, who lives in  Monaco , sued Ambrosiadou May 2 to
prohibit her from spying on him.  His lawsuit accused Ambrosiadou of hiring a surveillance
company to install hidden video and audio equipment in a home he
stays in while visiting the U.K. The home is jointly owned by
Coward and Ambrosiadou, according to the suit.  Coward also alleged in the suit that a Global Positioning
System tracking device found on his car bumper in March was put
there by surveillance specialists retained by Ambrosiadou.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  