-- 
Credit Suisse Hires Przygoda to Co-Head Financials Banking

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-06-03T18:05:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/credit-suisse-hires-greenhill-s-alejandro-przygoda-to-co-lead-financials.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the world’s
third-biggest merger adviser, hired Greenhill & Co.’s Alejandro Przygoda as global co-head of financial institutions investment
banking.  Przygoda, 43, will work in New York and share the job with
the current head of financial institutions, Ewen Stevenson in
London, Zurich-based Credit Suisse said today in an internal
memo that was confirmed by  Duncan King , a spokesman in New York.  Credit Suisse is adding a banker with a roster of
insurance-company clients to help run the unit, which also
provides advice and financing for banks, exchanges and asset
managers. Credit Suisse earned the third-biggest amount of
investment-banking fees from financial clients this year, it
said in the memo, citing data provider Dealogic.  “He has developed deep relationships with top executives
of the key players in the industry,” the co-heads of  investment
banking , James Amine and Luigi de Vecchi, said in the memo.  Przygoda advised the U.S. Treasury Department on the sale
of $5.8 billion of its stake in  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  last month. He also negotiated with Warren Buffett’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  for independent directors of Pasadena,
California-based  Wesco Financial Corp. (WSC) , which agreed in February
to sell Berkshire the 19.9 percent of Wesco shares it doesn’t
already own for $548 million.  Wharton, UBS  Przygoda, a native of Argentina, attended the University of
Pennsylvania’s Wharton School and started his career as an
insurance executive, including a stint as chief financial
officer of General Re Corp.’s Argentinean subsidiary. He worked
at Credit Suisse from 1995 to 2003, then moved to Zurich-based
 UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, and joined New York-based
Greenhill in 2009.  While at Greenhill, Przygoda advised Bermuda-based
 PartnerRe Ltd. (PRE)  on the $2 billion acquisition of Paris Re
Holdings Inc. and New York-based Travelers Cos. on the $371
million purchase of a stake in the insurance unit of Brazil’s
Parana Banco SA.  Credit Suisse also said today that it hired Fredrik Wraneus
in London as co-head of Nordic coverage within the investment-
banking unit. He joins from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and starts
with Credit Suisse on June 6, the bank said in a separate memo
to staff.  Credit Suisse ranks behind Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Morgan Stanley in advising on mergers and acquisitions announced
so far this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, based
on the dollar value of the transactions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 