-- 
Croatia Wants Mol to Lift INA Oil Reserves, Overhaul Refineries

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-06-03T11:47:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/croatia-wants-mol-to-lift-ina-oil-reserves-overhaul-refineries.html
The Croatian government wants Mol
Nyrt. to raise oil reserves at  INA  Industrija Nafte d.d. and
overhaul its two refineries as part of demands to get back
more influence in the Hungarian oil company’s local unit.  The government also wants Mol to reduce the power of
INA’s executive board, which Mol created in 2009 alongside the
existing management and supervisory boards, said Davor Stern,
head of INA’s supervisory board and one of three government-
appointed negotiators with Mol.  The government said yesterday it intends to review 2003
and 2009 agreements that gave Mol control rights over
Croatia’s largest refiner. Mol has 47.47 percent of INA, while
the government holds 44.84 percent. Along with Stern, Finance
Minister Martina Dalic and Economy Minister Djuro Popijac were
appointed to conduct the talks.  “ Croatia  wants a bigger say in deciding on INA’s status
and directions as one of the key companies in the country,”
said Stern in a phone interview. “We are unhappy with the
power distribution in the company.”  The government negotiators will demand that the
management board is given executive authority, and directors
from the executive board be kept as “heads of sector,” said
Stern.  The government would also like INA to “win back its
previous positions” in the wholesale and retail markets in
Slovenia and Bosnia-Herzegovina, he said. The pace of
negotiations will be outlined on June 7, during a supervisory
board meeting.  Tensions between Budapest-based Mol and Croatian
authorities increased after the Hungarian company in December
made an offer to purchase the outstanding shares in INA. The
government claimed it wasn’t notified of Mol’s intention
before the offer.  Mol said it has invested $3.8 billion in INA’s refineries
and production since 2003, when it first bought into the
Zagreb-based refiner. Mol’s spokesman Domokos Szollar said
yesterday Mol is “open” to talks with Croatia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Jasmina Kuzmanovic} in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  