-- 
Judge Denies Disney Injunction Against Dish Over TV Movies

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-06-03T21:38:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/disney-loses-bid-for-injunction-against-dish-over-free-access-to-its-films.html
A federal judge refused to grant  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  an injunction that would prevent satellite television
provider  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  from giving its subscribers free
access to Disney movies.  U.S. District Judge George Daniels in  New York  denied the
motion by Disney Enterprises Inc. for a preliminary injunction
in a one-page order signed June 1 and filed yesterday.  Disney sued Dish, the second-largest satellite TV company,
in May, accusing it of distributing Disney movies over the Starz
movie channels without charging subscribers an additional
premium, as is done with a service such as HBO. Starz is a unit
of Liberty Media Corp. Disney accused Dish of copyright
infringement.  “ Dish Network  pays hundreds of millions of dollars for the
right to distribute Starz content to our customers, which
includes the rights to a number of Disney movies,” Englewood,
Colorado-based Dish said May 3 in a statement.  Dish said the contract is between Starz and Disney, and
that “we will vigorously defend our rights against any attempt
to drag our customers into the middle of their dispute.”  Marc Lumpkin, a spokesman for Dish, said today the company
has no comment on the judge’s ruling.  Zenia Mucha , a spokeswoman for Burbank, California-based
Disney, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Disney dropped 68 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $39.38 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Dish fell
53 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $29.03 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading.  DirecTV, based in El Segundo, California, is the largest
satellite TV provider in the U.S.  The case is Disney Enterprises Inc. v. Dish Network LLC,
11-2973, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 