-- 
Don’t Believe Critics, Education Reform Works: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-06-03T12:48:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/don-t-believe-critics-education-reform-works-jonathan-alter.html
America’s education-reform movement -
- the most significant social movement of our time -- is just
completing another productive school year, with hundreds of
districts beefing up accountability and standards.  Amid grim news about budget cuts, the year brought new
awareness that relying on seniority alone in determining teacher
layoffs is mindless. It’s like saying that if the  Chicago Bulls 
wanted to cut costs, they should start by releasing  Derrick Rose , the NBA’s MVP, because he has only been in the league for
three years.  Unfortunately, the forces of the status quo are still
working overtime. Obstructionists with a talent for caricature
are determined to discredit important progress under way in some
of the poorest school districts in the country.  The leader of this rear-guard action is Diane Ravitch, a
professor at  New York University  who was an assistant secretary
of education in the administration of  George H.W. Bush . She’s
the education world’s very own Whittaker Chambers, the famous
communist turned strident anti-communist of the 1940s. Ravitch
moved the other way, from right to left, where she now uses
phony empiricism to rationalize almost every tired argument
offered by teachers unions.  Healthy Skepticism  While healthy skepticism is a virtue, Ravitch seems bent on
extinguishing any hope that our teachers and schools can do
better. In  an op-ed  in the New York Times on June 1, she derided
the impressive progress made at three public schools as “a
triumph of public relations” based on “statistical legerdemain.”  Ravitch tries to take down the Bruce Randolph School, a
middle school and high school in inner-city Denver. The high
school’s first senior class graduated in May at a rate of 97
percent, about twice the norm of typical inner-city schools.  Her so-called evidence that the school is cooking its books
is that Randolph’s ACT scores are far below the state average,
as if such comparisons to wealthy districts somehow disqualify
Randolph’s impressive year-over-year improvement in most areas.
(And since when does Ravitch credit test scores?)  Misuse of Statistics  Ravitch also goes after the performance of Randolph’s
middle school without mentioning that the results from sixth-
graders -- one-third of the school -- merely reflect how poorly
the students were prepared by the schools they previously
attended, a significant though hardly atypical example of her
misuse of statistics.  “This was a very cynical statement that she doesn’t believe
teachers and schools can make a difference in high-poverty
areas,” says  Colorado  State Senator Mike Johnston, a former
teacher and principal whose sweeping tenure-reform law is a
national model. “We can debate facts at particular schools but
you just can’t deny that some places are getting phenomenal
results -- results that should be celebrated, not called out as
fraudulent.”  Arne Duncan , President  Barack Obama ’s normally mild-
mannered education secretary, has finally had enough. “Diane
Ravitch is in denial and she is insulting all of the hardworking
teachers, principals and students all across the country who are
proving her wrong every day,” he said when I asked about Ravitch
this week.  Straw Men  What’s most infuriating to me about Ravitch is the way she
assembles straw men. It’s simply false for her to charge that
political leaders are trying to prove that “poverty doesn’t
matter.” No education reformer has ever challenged the idea that
conditions in the home and in the larger society are hugely
important. They merely insist that such conditions not be used
as an excuse for inaction.  Ravitch and her allies specialize in sliming reformers by
creating powerful myths. The most pernicious is that reformers
aren’t professional educators and therefore don’t have the
standing to criticize the status quo. This isn’t true -- many
reformers, including the heads of many  charter schools , have
education experience -- but what’s wrong with business
executives or other interested outsiders devoting time and money
to public schools? Would it be better if they ignored them as
they did for so long? That went well for this country.  Classroom Malpractice  Another caricature is that anyone critical of teachers
unions must be bashing teachers. In truth, most reformers aren’t
Governor Scott Walker-types bent on ending collective bargaining
but liberal parents (and even many teachers) who believe we
can’t afford to look the other way while a minority of teachers
commit malpractice in the classroom year after year.  Earlier this year, I tangled with Ravitch after she
referred to charter schools as “privatized” when she knows
perfectly well that charter schools are in fact public schools.
It’s a gross distortion to claim that reformers think charter
schools -- a tiny fraction of all public schools -- are the only
solution for all the ills of the education system. Most
reformers just want to replicate effective charter models.  What could possibly be her problem with that?  Measures of Performance  Ravitch has repeatedly fed the myth that reformers want
standardized tests to be the only measure of performance. In
truth, as Jon Schnur, the original architect of Obama’s Race to
the Top initiative puts it, “No serious reformer says
accountability should just be based on test scores. We all favor
multiple measures.” In Colorado, Johnston is working with the
unions to develop sophisticated evaluations that will help
consolidate the number of tests students are required to take.  Don’t expect Diane Ravitch to appreciate those efforts. She
uses selective data to punch holes in the work of good schools
and turn reformers into cartoonish right-wingers. Her view is
that we should throw up our hands and admit that nothing will
change until we end poverty in our time.  That is defeatist, wrong on the facts and the mother of all
cop-outs.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column: Jonathan Alter at
 alterjonathan@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  