-- 
Donna Karan Charity, Veuve Clicquot Polo Raise Money for Haiti

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-06-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/donna-karan-charity-veuve-clicquot-polo-match-raise-money-to-help-haiti.html
When fashion designer  Donna Karan 
went to Haiti after the devastating earthquake last year, the
artistic spirit of the people deeply moved her.  “I saw some of the most creative people I’ve ever seen,”
Karan, 62, said by phone while enroute to her house in the
Hamptons section of  Long Island , New York. “I believe there is
a major opportunity for rebuilding Haiti through its own
creativity.”  As an offshoot to her  Urban Zen Foundation , which she
started in 2007 to work on health care and education, Karan set
up  Hope Help & Rebuild Haiti . Veuve Clicquot chose it as the
beneficiary of the champagne maker’s fourth annual  Polo Classic 
on Sunday at New York’s  Governors Island .  Co-hosted by Argentine polo star Ignacio “Nacho” Figueras
and designer Marc Jacobs, the event will be emceed by actor  Hugh
Jackman . The polo match is at 2:30 p.m. and an awards ceremony
is scheduled for 4 p.m. Those who opt to pay $5,000 for a pair
of VIP tickets can hang out with Karan in a tented space. She
will preview a papier-mache bag made from tobacco leaves and
other materials, and exhibit the work of Haitian artists.  “People only see the negative side of Haiti,” Karan said.
“I want people to see the positive side. I do a lot of work in
Bali where I make furniture, and I think  Haiti  could be the next
Bali.”  Chefs from restaurateur Danny Meyer’s Union Square
Hospitality Group will serve a new line of burgers and small
plates from his Blue Smoke rib joint, El Verano Taqueria and
Public Fare in Central Park. The Modern executive chef Gabriel
Kreuther will make a special multicourse Champagne luncheon and
gourmet picnic baskets for VIP ticketholders.  Wyclef Jean  Karan said the Veuve Clicquot gift will go to Yele Haiti,
singer Wyclef Jean’s charity that has aided Haitian earthquake
relief, and to Dr. Paul Farmer’s  Partners in Health  nonprofit,
which has provided health care to the poor in Haiti since 1987.  Through the Urban Zen Foundation, Karan taps the worlds of
medicine, fashion, entertainment and education to back her
charity work. Her expansive two-story, loft-like Urban Zen
Center in  Manhattan ’s West Village has become a prime venue for
her charity events and those of other nonprofits she supports.  The foundation made a name for itself with its Integrative
Therapy Program, which marries holistic approaches to patient
care with medicine, empowering children and preserving cultures.  Clinton’s Influence  Karan said she has taken her cues as a philanthropist from
former U.S. President  Bill Clinton , the co-chairman of the
Interim Haiti Recovery Commission. Through his Clinton Global
Initiative, he has helped rebuild the ravaged nation.  On June 9, Urban Zen will honor Clinton with its first
Apple Award, named after a  3-ton sculpture of the fruit  at
Manhattan’s Millennium Garden created by Karan’s husband and
artist, Stephan Weiss, who died of  lung cancer  in 2001.  Clinton, who has worn Karan’s designs, gave her foundation
a lift by linking it with programs in the impoverished nation
through Clinton Global Initiative, she said.  “We’re taking integrative therapists into hospitals in
Haiti,” Karan said. “We’re supporting schools and education,
and we collaborate with organizations there. And this is all
coming out of the Clinton Initiative.”  (The fourth annual Veuve Clicquot Polo Classic is Sunday
from 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. at Governors Island, New York. General
admission is free. VIP tickets are $5,000 for two, and tables
for 10 are $20,000 to $50,000. Information: +1-212-254-6677 or
 tdoolin@inezevents.com )  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 