-- 
Donnie Walsh Is Leaving as New York Knicks’ President, Chairman Dolan Says

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-03T19:07:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/donnie-walsh-is-leaving-as-new-york-knicks-president-chairman-dolan-says.html
Donnie Walsh  is stepping down as the
 New York Knicks ’ president of basketball operations after a
three-year tenure that turned a struggling franchise into a
playoff team led by All-Stars Amar’e Stoudemire and  Carmelo Anthony .  Walsh and team owner  James Dolan  mutually agreed that he
would serve as a team consultant for the 2011-12 National
Basketball Association season, Dolan said in an e-mailed
statement.  Walsh, 70, said today that the decision was based on his
unwillingness to commit beyond one year. Saddled with health
problems that kept him in a wheelchair for part of last season,
he said he had lost the energy to do the job, although his
health now is good. His departure takes effect at the end of
this month.  “I didn’t think I could do it over a multiyear period,”
Walsh said on a conference call. “I don’t know that I’m up to
being here that much longer, I don’t know that he wants to wait
or should wait.”  Walsh said he likely would have accepted a one-year deal,
which was complicated by the possibility of a work stoppage as
the NBA and its players negotiate a new labor contract.  “Because of the uncertainty of next year, that would be a
windfall for me and it wouldn’t be fair to the franchise,”
Walsh said.  Interim Appointment  Glen Grunwald, the Knicks’ senior vice president of
basketball operations, will serve as the team’s general manager
on an interim basis, beginning in July. The club doesn’t have a
timetable for making a full-time hire, according to the
statement.  “In a relatively short time with the Knicks, Donnie made a
tremendous impact, which will be felt for many years to come,”
Dolan said in the statement.  Walsh stepped down as president and chief executive officer
of the  Indiana Pacers  in March 2008, signing a three-year
contract to join the Knicks, who had missed the postseason for
seven straight years.  The team continued to struggle over the next two campaigns
as Walsh shed player salaries in anticipation of a free-agent
class a year ago that included All-Stars LeBron James,  Dwyane Wade ,  Chris Bosh  and Stoudemire.  While James, Wade and Bosh chose to team up with the  Miami
Heat , Stoudemire joined the Knicks, who later landed Anthony in
a February trade with Denver. New York went 42-40 last season,
reaching the playoffs for the first time since 2004, before
being swept by the  Boston Celtics  in the first round.  James Pursuit  Whether Walsh would continue with the Knicks after his
contract expired this month has been in question since last
summer, when, according to the  New York  Daily News, Dolan asked
former team president and coach  Isiah Thomas  to make a pitch to
James to join the team.  Other media reports said he disagreed with Dolan about
signing Anthony and that the owner had sought advice from Thomas
about that move, taking the decision out of Walsh’s hands. Walsh
repeatedly denied those reports at the time and said today that
neither autonomy over personnel decisions nor Thomas’s
relationship with Dolan played any role in his contract
negotiations.  He said he had a good relationship with Thomas and
“basically had a good relationship with Jim.”  “He treated me very well,” Walsh said. “I never could
understand reports that he wasn’t or that we didn’t get along.”  Replaced Thomas  Walsh was hired to replace Thomas, who had been fired as
the Knicks’ president and coach. Thomas, now the coach at
 Florida International University , was rehired in August as a
consultant to the Knicks before deciding not to take the job
after he said it had “become apparent” the appointment
violated NBA rules regarding his status as a college coach.  Walsh said he was content with his own performance in three
seasons attempting to revive the franchise.  “I loved the challenge of trying to bring this team back,
and I think I did that,” he said. “I think I did the first
step of that, but there are more steps to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 