-- 
Europe E. Coli Is Deadliest Outbreak as Rare Strain Causes Kidney Failure

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-03T14:02:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/e-coli-outbreak-in-europe-reaches-deadliest-on-record-with-kidney-failure.html
E. coli that has sickened thousands
in Europe has become the deadliest outbreak of the bacteria on
record as a rare strain is causing  kidney failure  in
unprecedented numbers, U.S. health officials said.  At least 18 people have died and 1,823 cases have been
reported, according to the  World Health Organization  in Geneva.
The number of reported cases is based on hospital records, and
the actual number of infections may be 10 or more times higher,
said Michael Osterholm, director of the  Center for Infectious
Disease Research and Policy  at the University of Minnesota.  The strain circulating in Germany and nine other European
countries produces a toxin not usually seen in E. coli that can
damage the kidneys and other organs. Germany alone has reported
520 cases of the kidney ailment and officials  advised against 
eating raw tomatoes, cucumbers and leafy salads.  “We usually consider that a rare complication,” said
Robert Tauxe, deputy director of food-borne illnesses at the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, in a
telephone interview. “This is a new public health problem.”  Germany ’s  Robert Koch Institute  today confirmed 11 deaths
related to the E. coli outbreak, as well as 520 cases of the
potentially fatal complication, known as hemolytic uremic
syndrome or HUS. Another 30 cases of HUS have been reported in
 Sweden ,  Spain , Denmark, the U.K. and the  Netherlands , the
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control said today.  U.S. Outbreak  The biggest outbreak in the U.S. of a toxin-producing E.
coli gave 41 people HUS. That event, caused by a different
strain, occurred in tainted meat at the Jack in the Box fast-
food chain in 1993, Tauxe said.  The E. coli found in Germany has killed more people and
resulted in more cases of severe kidney damage than any outbreak
on record, he said.  About 9,451 people were sickened and 12 killed in outbreaks
in  Japan  from May 1996 to December 1996, according to a 1999
study in the  American Journal of Epidemiology . The majority of
those cases were acquired by tainted radish sprouts in school
lunches. In  Scotland , 17 deaths from E. coli were confirmed
after an outbreak in November 1996, according to a government
 report .  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  is stepping up
testing of imported foods, though vegetables in the U.S. should
be safe to eat, Tauxe said.  ‘Alarming Standstill’  The European fresh-produce market came to “an alarming
standstill” after the outbreak, said Brussels-based Freshfel,
which represents the fresh fruit and vegetable supply chain.
European Union vegetable producers are losing “millions of
euros a day” because of trade restrictions, according to
Brussels-based farm group Copa-Cogeca.  Hamburg doctors are advising people to avoid eating raw
vegetables to prevent infection.  “I tell people to wash their hands and wash the vegetables
they eat,” Rolf Stahl, the director of the Department of
Internal Medicine III and Clinics at the University Medical
Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg’s largest hospital, said at a
press conference in Hamburg today. “Don’t eat fresh cucumbers,
tomatoes or salad -- cook it and then you’ll be safe.”  While at least one shop in downtown Hamburg has removed
cucumbers, tomatoes and lettuce from sandwiches, Jennifer Loose
said she’s not afraid to eat raw vegetables.  “I’m eating vegetables, but I am buying them from a farmer
nearby my home,” said Loose, a 24-year-old kindergarten teacher
who lives in Hamburg. “That is better than the vegetables in
the supermarket.”  Novel Bug?  Researchers and public health officials are at odds over
whether the strain is one that has never been seen before. The
variant, which produces a toxin related to the bacterium
 Shigella , is “highly unusual,” German and Swedish scientists
said in a  report  in the weekly newsletter Eurosurveillance
yesterday. The germ has caused food-borne outbreaks of diarrhea
and HUS before, although outbreaks in Germany haven’t been
reported previously, they said.  A Chinese laboratory working with German scientists said it
sequenced the genes of the bacteria and found it to be a mutated
strain that was unlike any previously identified.  The lab,  Beijing Genomics Institutes  in Shenzhen, said in a
statement yesterday that it had conducted “a preliminary
analysis that shows the current infection is caused by an
entirely new super-toxic E. coli strain.”  ‘Overstated’  The CDC’s Tauxe said in an interview yesterday that the
report was “overstated.” Tauxe said the strain had previously
caused an isolated case in  Korea . Still, he said the European
infections are the first known outbreak of the rare strain. The
WHO agreed with Tauxe’s assessment in a posting to  its website 
late yesterday.  “It depends on how you define ‘strain’” said Osterholm,
of the  University of Minnesota , explaining why researchers
disagree over the germ’s novelty. The CDC, WHO and Osterholm
agree the bacterium is a previously known variety called
 0104:H4 . The bug, however, has genetic traits that make it
different from previous cases, Osterholm said. For example, it
is highly resistant to antibiotics, and it lacks a gene
previously thought to be key to causing kidney damage.  “This combination is absolutely new,” he said in a
telephone interview. “Right now we need to trace down the
source. That’s number one: to make sure this product is no
longer in circulation.”  All humans and animals carry E. coli in their intestines,
and those strains are usually harmless, according to the
Stockholm-based ECDC. Some variants produce toxins and cause
illnesses ranging from diarrhea and nausea to HUS, which
typically occurs in about 5 percent of E. coli patients,
according to the CDC.  Nasty Hybrid  “The strain is a new hybrid of two nasty E. coli strains
that has gained a few tricks to cause more severe disease,”
said Brendan W. Wren, head of the pathogen molecular biology
department at  London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine . “It
is not uncommon for bacteria such as E. coli to mutate and
evolve, because they multiply every 30 minutes and therefore
have numerous chances to mutate.”  The resistance to antibiotics in laboratory testing
suggests the strain may have originated in a geographic region
with high levels of antibiotic use, possibly an area with
domestic farm animals or in a developing country, Tauxe said.  The “epicenter” of the outbreak is the area surrounding
the northern German city of Hamburg, said John Dalli, the
European commissioner for health and consumer policy.  Austria ,
 Denmark ,  France , Netherlands,  Norway , Spain, Sweden,  Switzerland 
and the U.K. have reported cases, the WHO said. All infections
found outside Germany, except for two, are in people who had
recently visited northern Germany or had contact with a visitor
from the area, according to the WHO.  U.S. Travelers  Two E. coli cases were identified in the U.S. among
travelers returning from Europe, according to the CDC.  There have been no shipments of tomatoes, cucumbers or
lettuce from Germany to the U.S. since January, according to
Dara Corrigan, the Food and Drug Administration’s associate
commissioner for regulatory affairs. Three shipments of lettuce
have come from Spain during that time period and one shipment of
cucumbers arrived in May. No fresh tomatoes from Spain have been
imported in the last 18 months.  “We’re going to keep an eye on what’s going on in
 Europe ,” U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said in a news
briefing yesterday. “I have no reason to believe that
specifically what happened in Europe is somehow going to come
here.”  Infection with virulent strains of the bacteria can occur
through contact with uncooked food or animals carrying the
bacteria. The E. coli can live on leaves for as long as two
weeks, said Paul Hunter, a professor of health protection at the
 University of East Anglia  in  England .  People who have symptoms, including stomach cramps and
bloody diarrhea, should see their doctors, said Ian Jones, a
professor of virology at the University of Reading in England.  “Once the damage is done, you may have kidney disorders
for the rest of your life,” Jones said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Randall in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Larkin in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  