-- 
Europe’s E. Coli Outbreak Is Deadliest on Record: Questions and Answers

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-06-03T20:02:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/e-coli-outbreak-is-deadliest-on-record-questions-and-answers.html
The E. coli outbreak that has
sickened thousands in  Europe  has become the deadliest on record,
killing at least 18 people.  Another 1,823 cases have been reported, according to the
 World Health Organization  in Geneva. The number of reported
cases is based on hospital records, and the actual number may be
10 or more times higher.  The strain circulating in Germany and 10 other European
countries produces a toxin not usually seen in E. coli that can
damage the kidneys and other organs. Germany alone has reported
520 cases of the kidney ailment, and officials advised against
eating raw tomatoes, cucumbers and leafy salads.  The following questions and answers are from Bloomberg News
interviews with experts in public health, infectious disease and
emerging diseases, and from official websites of the  World
Health Organization , the U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention  in Atlanta, the  European Center for Disease Control
and Prevention , the U.S.  National Institutes of Health  in
Bethesda, and the  Robert Koch Institute , the German health
authority.  Q: What is E. coli? What is EHEC? What is HUS?  A: Escherichia coli is a type of bacteria that normally
lives in the intestines. Most varieties are harmless. A few
strains can cause bloody diarrhea, abdominal cramps and  kidney
failure . Symptoms vary, and may be mild.  The type of E. coli that causes bloody diarrhea is called
enterohemorrhagic E. coli, or EHEC. That can develop into a
life-threatening disease, hemolytic uremic syndrome, or HUS,
which causes kidney damage. The death rate from HUS is about 3
percent to 5 percent.  The strain causing the German outbreak has caused sporadic
disease in the past, but hasn’t been known previously to cause
outbreaks.  Q: When was the last outbreak?  A: There are outbreaks every year around the world. The
world’s biggest recorded outbreak occurred in 1996 in  Japan ,
where over 10,000 people were infected.  Q: How many countries are involved?  A: So far, 11 in addition to Germany. They are  Austria , the
 Czech Republic ,  Denmark ,  France , the Netherlands,  Norway ,  Spain ,
 Sweden ,  Switzerland , the  United Kingdom  and the  United States of
America . Most of these are people who have recently visited
northern Germany. One case was in a person who had contact with
a visitor from northern Germany who had an EHEC case.  Q: Can E. coli transmit from person to person?  A: Sometimes there is person-to-person transmission.
Usually E. coli is transmitted when feces, often from an animal
source, are ingested. Person-to-person transmission can occur
when people with diarrhea don’t wash their hands properly, and
come into contact with others who don’t wash their hands before
eating.  Q: How many people are sick?  A: We don’t know. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention says the number of HUS cases suggest the outbreak is
“very large.” It’s too early to know why so many are sick,
although a popular food item may be contaminated, or the strain
may be especially likely to cause complications.  As of June 3, 520 people had HUS, and 11 died; 1,215 people
had EHEC, and 6 died in  Germany . That’s a total of 1,733 cases,
with 17 dead. Globally, 552 cases of HUS have occurred, and 12
have died and 1,271 people have been sickened, with 6 who’ve
died.  In addition, symptoms don’t appear until 3 to 4 days after
infection.  Q: If E. coli comes from meat, how does it get into
vegetables?  A: In a 2006 California outbreak, spinach was contaminated
with E. coli, killing 3 people and sickening 200. Cow feces had
contaminated the water where the vegetables were growing.  Q: Why are women and children severely sick more often?  A: Children under the age of 5 years old and the elderly
are most likely to have serious complications. An unusual number
of healthy adults have been seriously sick as well.  Women seem to be getting sick more often because they eat
more vegetables, and are more likely to be exposed.  Q: What is the treatment for E. coli infection?  A: Antibiotic therapy isn’t helpful and may even make E.
coli worse. Patients are given fluids. Anti-diarrheal agents
aren’t recommended as they may also worsen the disease.  Q. How do you prevent infection?  A: The source of the contamination is still unknown. German
officials and the  U.K.’s Health Protection Agency  are telling
people to avoid eating raw tomatoes, cucumbers and leafy salads
until further notice.  To prevent E. coli, avoid raw meat. Cook meat to at least
160 degrees Fahrenheit (71 Celsius) at its thickest point. Stay
clear of unpasteurized milk, juice and cider, and wash produce
thoroughly. Follow any government recommendations to shun
certain foods. To avoid contamination, wash utensils before and
after they come in contact with food, and keep raw foods
separate. People should wash their hands after preparing food,
eating, using the bathroom and changing diapers.  Q: How did WHO learn about the outbreak? What is being
done?  A: All countries are requested to inform WHO of any public
health event “of international concern,” and Germany notified
WHO on May 22.  Germany and other affected countries are investigating the
outbreak by interviewing patients about what foods they’ve
eaten, analyzing the food and analyzing the microbe. WHO is
monitoring the situation and working to assist the German health
authorities. WHO doesn’t recommend restrictions on travel or
trade with Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 