-- 
E. Coli Sleuths May Be Led to ‘Smoking Cow’ in Hunt for Infection Source

-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-06-03T14:10:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/e-coli-sleuths-may-be-led-to-smoking-cow-in-germ-source-hunt.html
Germ sleuths searching for the
origins of the bacteria causing a rare and potentially deadly
kidney disease in  Europe  may find it in cows, not cucumbers.  Cattle are the main reservoir for E. coli, the family of
bowel-dwelling bacteria from which the new bug comes, said
Rowland Cobbold, a veterinary public health researcher at the
University of Queensland in Australia. Besides being more
virulent and lethal, the strain that emerged in Germany a month
ago resists a dozen antibiotics, providing more clues about its
origins, he said.  “The cucumber may be the lead back to the original
ruminant that was the source,” Cobbold said in an interview
from Gatton, Australia. “It’s almost entirely likely that it
came from cattle at some point.”  Knowing where and how the germ entered the food chain will
enable authorities to control the outbreak, which the  World
Health Organization  said has infected about 1,823 people,
killing as many as 18 globally. Tests on cucumbers from  Spain ,
previously thought to be the source of the outbreak, found
they’re not responsible, the European Commission said on June 1.  “It’s now a priority to identify the source of the E. coli
infection in order to put in place further measures to protect
the population,” German government spokesman Steffen Seibert
said yesterday.  Bloody Diarrhea  E. coli bacteria are commonly found in the human
gastrointestinal tract, where they usually cause no harm. The
German variant, known as O104, is a hybrid of strains carrying
genes that can cause  bloody diarrhea  and a toxin that may lead
to a complication known as  hemolytic uremic syndrome .  “There’s been a couple of cases of O104 strains before,
but nothing as virulent as this,” Cobbold said. “As far as we
can tell, it’s an entirely new strain.”  Outbreaks of bloody diarrhea caused by E. coli have usually
been linked to contaminated meat, Cobbold said. In more recent
outbreaks where fruit and vegetables were implicated, E. coli-
contaminated manure or irrigation water were found to be the
original source, he said.  “If this goes the same way as previous investigations,
they’ll find the ‘smoking gun’ -- the ‘smoking tomato’ or the
‘smoking cucumber’,” Cobbold said. “They will then follow the
production source back to the farm and they’ll work out the
various contamination roots.”  ‘Smoking Cow’  Most likely that will lead to the “smoking cow,” or at
least a specific herd where the strain can be found, he said.  Manure from cattle infected with the microbe can spread in
the air and water, potentially contaminating vegetable fields,
said  James Paton , head of the bacterial pathogenesis laboratory
at the University of Adelaide in  Australia .  “If you’re trying to grow hydroponic lettuces half a
kilometer down the road from a cattle feedlot, even if you don’t
have any cattle on your property, there’s the potential for
manure dust to blow down on your farm,” Paton said. “It’s
easy.”  It highlights the need to prevent fecal material from
animals contaminating water that comes into contact with food,
especially produce eaten raw, said Peter Collignon, head of
 infectious diseases  at Australia’s Canberra Hospital, who serves
on a World Health Organization panel studying antibiotic
resistance in the food chain.  “This is a much bigger issue,” Collignon said. “There is
a lot of stuff going on all the time that’s just falling below
the radar.”  Cow Feces  Cow feces were implicated in E. coli-contaminated spinach
in a 2006 outbreak in  California  that killed three people and
sickened 200. Food animals and waterways should also be tested
to find the source of the current outbreak, Collignon said,
adding that the strain’s resistance to certain antibiotics
should make it easier to identify.  The German O104 carries genes that enable it to evade a
dozen antibiotics, including Sanofi and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’
Claforan and other so-called third-generation cephalosporin
medicines. It’s possible that antibiotic use, especially in
livestock production, helped spawn the new O104 E. coli strain,
Cobbold said.  “A question with the O104 outbreak is just how much
antimicrobial resistance is an important issue,” he said. “If
the bug has come from a country where there is poor
antimicrobial regulation, particularly for the third-generation
cephalosporins, that may be a contributing factor that may well
select for this bug. But it will have come from cattle either
way.”  Resistance Rates  The pattern of drug resistance is a concern to
investigators, said Winifred Kern, head of the Centre for
Infectious Diseases and Travel Medicine at the University
Hospital in Freiburg,  Germany , in an e-mailed statement. It
“highlights the risks of spread of resistance across human and
animal micro-organisms, which could be linked to inappropriate
antibiotic use,” she said.  Rates of E. coli bacteria from patient specimens resistant
to third-generation cephalosporins in Europe varied from 19
percent in  Bulgaria  and 17 percent in  Italy  to 1.8 percent in
Iceland and 2.3 percent in  Norway , the European Centre for
Disease Prevention and Control in  Stockholm  said in a  report  in
November.  Resistance to the medicine is an increasing problem in
animals in the European Union, although there is insufficient
data available to properly assess the risk, the European
Medicines Agency said in a March 2009  report . Cephalosporins
authorized for use in food-producing animals include  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) ’s Excede, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  