-- 
The Silver Lining Within a Week of Grim Economic Data: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-03T20:05:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/the-silver-lining-within-a-week-of-grim-economic-data-view.html
Today’s jobs report from the U.S.
Labor Department looks frightful. Private-sector employment has
stalled, while state and local governments continue to shed
jobs. Some 13.9 million people are out of work, and almost half
of them have been unemployed for 27 weeks or longer. The
 unemployment rate , which had dipped to 8.8 percent in March, is
back up to 9.1 percent.  Worrisome economic portents piled up all week: Housing
prices in 20 major cities fell in March to the lowest point
since 2003.  Consumer confidence  slipped. Growth in
manufacturing, one of the economy’s bright spots in recent
months, slowed. The recession ended two years ago, but you would
never know it from numbers like these.  Reactions were swift and severe. “We are totally
alarmed,” Service Employees International Union President Mary Kay Henry told CNBC. Economists at Barclays Capital Inc. reduced
their second-quarter growth forecast to 2 percent from 3.5
percent.  As scary as it all seems, there are reasons to believe that
May was an economic outlier. Floods and tornadoes of Biblical
proportions struck the Midwest and South. Parts shortages
stemming from the tsunami in  Japan  disrupted U.S. factories,
especially those of Detroit automakers, which were forced to
postpone hiring as a result. Fear of contagion from yet another
European debt crisis rattled executives at multinational
companies. Gasoline prices, at $4 a gallon and up, gave
consumers an excuse to avoid the malls. Yet most of these forces
are temporary. A resolution to the Greek debt crisis is taking
shape. After peaking, the price of gasoline has dropped. Even
weather-related damage will lead to spurts of economic growth as
communities rebuild.  Give Bernanke Credit  So what is the appropriate policy response? First, Federal
Reserve naysayers should acknowledge that Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  was right. He has been making the case for months that
the recovery isn’t secure and inflation isn’t a problem, and
thus a very accommodative Fed policy is the correct path,
including keeping  interest rates  near zero.  While the Fed isn’t likely to extend its second round of
bond purchases past the scheduled June 30 termination, the
central bank should hold off selling the $2.6 trillion in
Treasuries, mortgage bonds and other assets it now holds on its
balance sheet, and should keep reinvesting in securities as they
mature. This will sustain some of the stimulative effect of
earlier Fed purchases.  The White House and Congress, locked in mortal combat over
the level of spending cuts required to win Republican votes to
increase the debt ceiling, should also take note: The jobless
figures are an unmistakable sign that the  U.S. economy  still
needs strong   government spending . Deep spending reductions
should be postponed until 2013 at the earliest. An agreement on
the debt ceiling would also have a calming effect on global
markets and corporate executives. Lawmakers and the Obama
administration should strike a deal now, and not wait until the
August deadline.  For three years, corporate bosses have focused on shrinking
their workforces to reduce costs. They are reluctant to hire
unless they can be certain the economy won’t retreat. But U.S.
companies are now sitting on $1.9 trillion in cash, and it’s
time to put that money to work. Over time, American confidence
will revive; it always does.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 