-- 
Lead Smelters in China May Cut Output as Demand Slows, Regulation Tightens

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-06-03T06:10:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/lead-smelters-in-china-may-cut-output-as-demand-slows-regulation-tightens.html
Lead smelters in  China , the world’s
largest producer and consumer, may idle capacity as demand slows
amid a power shortage and as the nation clamps down on polluting
units, according to Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  “Lead demand has been weak and while we haven’t heard of
smelters cutting output, many have brought forward their annual
maintenance shutdowns, which is essentially the same thing,”
said Hu Yongda, an analyst at state-owned Antaike. He didn’t
give an estimate of how much capacity may be affected.  Reduced Chinese demand may accelerate a decline in prices
in London this year as consumption is forecast by the
 International Lead and Zinc Study Group  to trail output for a
fourth year. Moves to tighten rules on production of so-called
e-bikes and lead-acid batteries may cool demand for lead, Zhu
Yan, an analyst at Xiangyu Futures Co., said from  Shanghai .  “The fundamentals for lead are looking quite bleak at the
moment, with the announcements about the electric bicycles and
battery makers,” Zhu said from Shanghai.  China  will clamp down on the production, sale and use of
so-called e-bikes that fail to meet standards on speed-limit and
weight, the Ministry of Information and Technology  said  on May
31. Electric bicycles, powered by lead-acid batteries, can’t
speed more than 20 kilometers (12 miles) an hour and must weigh
no more than 40 kilograms (88 pounds), according to China’s
Standardization Administration rules issued in 2009.  A worsening power shortage may also lead to production cuts
in the coming months, said Antaike’s Hu. Energy accounts for
about a third of lead’s average cost of production, estimated at
around 14,000 yuan ($2,160) a metric ton, according to Beijing
Cifco Futures Co. analyst Feng Haiying.  Record Power Shortage  An electricity shortfall this summer may be as much as 40
gigawatts, surpassing the 2004 record, according to State Grid
Corp. of China. Power prices for industrial and commercial users
in 15 provinces were increased on June 1, according to the
National Development and Reform Commission.  Battery makers in China have shut factories after the
government tightened measures to curb pollution following
reports of poisoning incidents in Zhejiang and Guangdong
provinces. Zhejiang Haijiu Battery Co., a maker of lead-acid
batteries for motorcycles, stopped production on April 29 after
it was found to be improperly disposing of lead, the Ministry of
Environmental Protection said May 18.  Zhejiang Narada Power Source Co.’s units in Hangzhou halted
output after the local government ordered battery companies to
suspend operation for inspection of lead pollution, the company
said in a statement to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange on May 17.  Battery Makers  Plants in Zhejiang, Guangdong, Sichuan and Henan provinces
have suspended production for about two weeks, Xu Hong, head of
the lead-acid battery branch at the China Electrical Equipment
Industry Association, said on May 30. Battery-makers account for
about 80 percent of the country’s lead demand.  “We believe that many of the larger facilities will re-
open since they typically meet regulatory standards -- these
plants account for the bulk of lead battery production,”
Barclays Capital analyst  Gayle Berry  wrote in a May 31 report.
“Smaller unregulated producers are the ones at risk from
permanent closure.”  Global usage of lead will increase 5.5 percent to 10.04
million tons in 2011, while production will climb 6.1 percent to
10.16 million tons, resulting in a 123,000-ton surplus, the
 International Lead and Zinc Study Group  forecast in April.  China’s production of lead climbed 30 percent to 1.44
million tons in the first four months of this year as smelters
ramped up output in response to higher treatment fees following
a greater availability of concentrates. The country’s imports of
ore rose 21 percent in the first four months of this year.  Treatment Fees  Smelters are charging about $120 a ton to turn imported ore
into refined metal, compared with about $75 at the start of the
year, according to Shanghai Metals Market. Those with access to
their own mines and power plants are unlikely to curb output if
prices stay at current levels, said Zhang Shu, an analyst at the
researcher and data provider.  Lead futures in Shanghai have fallen 8 percent since they
started trading on March 24, and last traded at 16,875 yuan a
ton. Lead prices in Changjiang, Shanghai’s biggest cash market,
have dropped 11 percent in the same period.  Three-month lead traded on the  London  Metal Exchange, which
has lost 4.1 percent this year, advanced as much as 2.3 percent
to $2,460 a ton today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  