-- 
ECB Is Still on Track for July Rate Increase

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-06-03T13:25:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/ecb-is-still-on-track-for-july-rate-increase.html
The  European Central Bank  is still on
track to raise  interest rates  in July as Greece’s worsening debt
crisis clouds the economic outlook in the run-up to next week’s
policy meeting, a Bloomberg survey showed.  All 51 economists forecast the ECB to keep the benchmark
rate at 1.25 percent at the June 9 meeting. The Frankfurt-based
central bank led by  Jean-Claude Trichet  may increase borrowing
costs by 25 basis points in July, a separate survey showed.  “Greek tensions will have only a limited impact on the
ECB’s determination to raise rates in July,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-region economist at Citigroup in  London .
“The euro area as a whole is doing pretty well, therefore the
ECB will have to adjust the benchmark rate. It has to position
itself not least to safeguard its credibility.”  ECB council members including  Italy ’s  Mario Draghi  have
signaled they see a need to raise borrowing costs further to
fight price pressures even as investors become increasingly
concerned that Greece may restructure its debt. European Union
and International Monetary Fund officials today complete a
review of Greece’s plan for 78 billion euros ($113 billion) in
asset sales and austerity measures after Moody’s Investors
Service earlier this week raised the probability of default.  ‘Reasonably Upbeat’  The ECB, which aims to keep inflation just below 2 percent,
on June 9 will release its latest economic forecasts for the 17-
member euro region. In March, the central bank projected
inflation to average about 2.3 percent this year and 1.7 percent
in 2012 with the economy expanding 1.7 percent and 1.8 percent
this year and next, respectively.  Marco Valli, chief euro-region economist at UniCredit
Global Research in Milan, said he expects the ECB to raise its
forecasts for both growth and inflation next week.  The ECB “will continue to sound reasonably upbeat on
recovery prospects,” he said. “We would be surprised if the
central bank were to miss this opportunity to pre-announce a
July rate hike.”  Draghi, who will likely succeed Trichet from November, said
on May 31 that monetary conditions are still “accommodating.”
His remarks were echoed by Executive Board member  Juergen Stark ,
who told Italian newspaper Il Sole 24-Ore in an interview
published on June 1 that further rate increases are “under
consideration” after April’s 25 basis-point move.  Bond Rollovers  At the same time, governments are struggling to contain the
region’s debt crisis. Greece’s risk of default was raised to 50
percent by Moody’s and the yield difference, or spread, between
10-year German bunds and Greek securities of a similar maturity
was at 1,316 basis points today.  Europe ’s financial leaders need to hammer out a revised
Greek package by the end of June, in time to persuade the IMF to
pay out its share of the next tranche of loans and before a
summit of EU leaders on June 23-24. The IMF had indicated that
it would withhold its share of the June payment unless the EU
comes up with a plan to close  Greece ’s funding gap for 2012.  Policy makers have in recent days floated the idea of bond
rollovers as a pillar of any new aid package. The step would be
favored by the ECB, according to two officials familiar with the
situation, because it would skirt the risk of any agreement
being classified as a default. Investors may be given preferred
status, higher coupon payments or collateral, said two other EU
officials familiar with the situation.  ‘Risky Situation’  ECB council member Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez today
called it an “error to restructure” and Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said yesterday that Greece has other options.  “The truth is, as Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer 
said last week, if we don’t resolve this crisis correctly, we
could enter a horror scenario,” said Ordonez, who heads the
Spanish central bank. “If there is a pillar of the market
economy, it’s that debtors pay their debts.”  The ECB may have more room to keep rates on hold as a
retreat in oil prices lowers inflation threats. Euro-region
consumer prices increased 2.7 percent in May from a year earlier
after increasing 2.8 percent in the previous month and a gauge
measuring households’ assessment of price developments over the
coming 12 months declined last month.  “Compared to a month ago, a rate increase could look less
likely,” said  Nick Kounis , chief European economist at ABN Amro
Bank NV in Amsterdam. “There’s still a risky situation
surrounding Greece.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  