-- 
ECB’s Paramo Says Basel III Rules to Bring ‘Substantial’ Benefit

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-06-03T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/ecb-s-paramo-says-basel-iii-rules-to-bring-substantial-benefit.html
European Central Bank  Executive Board
member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said the Basel III banking
rules will create “substantial” long-term benefits.  “Benefits brought by the enhanced capital and liquidity
regulation can be substantial,” Gonzalez-Paramo said today at a
conference in Sitges,  Spain . “They include a reduction in the
frequency of crises and hence on the expected output losses
associated.”  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  agreed last year
to boost capital and liquidity requirements for banks to prevent
a repeat of the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. The rules, endorsed by Group of 20 leaders, will
require lenders to more than double the highest-quality capital
they hold to cushion against losses by 2019.  Gonzalez-Paramo said that global implementation of the new
rules is “of the essence,” and that the implementation
deadline of 2019 provides “ample” time for banks to adjust.  “In the short term, given that financial markets are
characterized by information asymmetries and frictions, the new
regulatory requirements will most likely imply some transitional
costs on the economy through tighter credit conditions,” he
said. “Adverse effects are however expected to be moderate,
notably if they are spread over a long implementation period.”  Work needs to progress on identifying and regulating so-
called systemically important lenders, Gonzalez-Paramo said.  “By virtue of their ‘too-big-to-fail’ status, these
financial institutions assume a systemic dimension which, in the
event of a crisis, results in large wealth transfers from
taxpayers to the banking system,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  