-- 
Edwards Pleads Not Guilty to Charges of Accepting Funds to Conceal Affair

-- B y   J o h n   P e r a g i n e ,   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J e r r y   A d a m s
-- 
2011-06-04T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/edwards-pleads-not-guilty-to-charges-of-accepting-funds-to-conceal-affair.html
John Edwards , the two-time U.S.
presidential candidate and former  North Carolina  senator,
pleaded not guilty to charges of accepting more than $925,000 in
illegal campaign contributions to hide an extramarital affair.  A U.S. grand jury indicted Edwards, 57, on six counts,
including conspiracy and making false statements. At a federal
court hearing yesterday in Winston-Salem, North Carolina,
Edwards was ordered released while he awaits trial and to
surrender his passport. He is restricted to travel within the
continental U.S.  “There’s no question that I’ve done wrong,” Edwards said
after the hearing. “I take full responsibility for having done
wrong. I will regret for the rest of my life the pain and the
harm that I’ve caused others. But I did not break the law. And I
never, ever thought that I was breaking the law.”  Edwards, a Democrat, was the subject of a two-year
investigation into whether he used the funds to conceal his
relationship with filmmaker Rielle Hunter, with whom he had a
child, while running for president in 2008. The donations came
in 2007 and 2008 and were part of an effort to prevent public
revelations that would undermine his presidential campaign,
according to the indictment filed yesterday.  Edwards’s Lawyer  “No one has ever been charged, either civilly or
criminally, with the claims that have been brought against
Senator Edwards,” Gregory Craig, an attorney for Edwards, said
in an e-mailed statement before yesterday’s hearing. “No one
would have known, or should have known, or could have been
expected to know, that these payments would be treated or should
be considered as campaign contributions.”  Craig, a partner at the Washington office of New York-based
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, served as White House
counsel to U.S. President  Barack Obama .  Edwards publicly acknowledged the relationship with Hunter
in August 2008. A lawyer who served in the Senate from 1999 to
2005, Edwards was Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry ’s running
mate in the 2004 presidential election. In January 2008, he
withdrew as a presidential candidate, later revealing his affair
after a newspaper reported that he fathered Hunter’s daughter.  In an interview with ABC News in August 2008, Edwards said
the relationship with Hunter began in 2006 after he met her in a
bar in  New York . He later hired her to produce Web videos for
his campaign. Edwards, who has denied providing money to Hunter,
claimed paternity of her child in 2009.  In a 2009 book, Elizabeth Edwards said her husband
confessed the affair to her in the final days of 2006, after
returning home from a tour announcing his second run for
president.  Elizabeth Edwards died in December after a six-year battle
with  breast cancer .  Federal Election Act  The Federal Election Act limits the amount individuals may
contribute to candidates. The most an individual could
contribute in the 2008 presidential primary was $2,300.  Edwards accepted about $725,000 from one person and more
than $200,000 from another, according to the indictment.  The payments at issue were used to cover Hunter’s rent,
medical visits and prenatal expenses, in addition to travel and
hotel accommodations to hide her from the public, according to
the indictment.  Edwards emerged on the national scene in 1998 when, with
little experience in politics, he defeated North Carolina
Republican Senator Lauch Faircloth. Shortly after being sworn
into office, the Senate’s Democratic leaders tapped him to help
defend President  Bill Clinton  during impeachment proceedings.  Single Term  Edwards gave up his Senate seat after a single term to run
for what would be the first of two failed presidential
campaigns.  Though he had made millions of dollars as one of North
Carolina’s top trial lawyers, Edwards ran populist campaigns in
which he railed against the divide between rich and poor --“Two
Americas,” he called it -- while frequently referring to his
father’s work in a textile mill.  One former federal prosecutor said the government may have
a difficult time proving its case against Edwards as juries are
often willing to forgive indiscretions involving extramarital
affairs.  “Juries are loath to convict a public figure for mistress-
related crimes,” said Ken Julian, now with Los Angeles-based
Manatt Phelps & Phillips LLP. “Even if he did step over the
line, I think they’ll have a hard time pulling the trigger.”  Edwards appeared calm at yesterday’s hearing, laughing and
smiling with his team of lawyers. He sparred with U.S.
Magistrate Judge Patrick Auld as he was read his rights.  ‘I’m an Attorney’  “I know what my rights are. I’m an attorney,” Edwards
said.  “Well, I’m still obligated to tell you what they are,”
Auld responded.  As a condition of his release, Edwards agreed not to have
any contact with Rachel “Bunny” Mellon, a 100-year-old
multimillionaire heiress who is scheduled to testify as a
witness in the case. ABC News reported in February that Mellon,
the widow of banking heir  Paul Mellon , gave more than $4 million
to organizations and political committees supportive of Edwards’
bid for the 2008 presidential campaign.  Someone identified only as Person C in the indictment wrote
more than $700,000 in personal checks made payable to a friend
and falsely listed in the memo lines that the checks were for
furniture such as an antique Charleston table.  ‘All Bills’  Edwards and a former campaign aide allegedly solicited
money from Person C in May 2007 after receiving an e-mail from
her asking Edwards to forward “all bills” necessary and
important for his campaign, according to the indictment. Person
C wrote the e-mail after media reports about Edwards and a $400
haircut. Sending bills directly to Person C, that person said in
the e-mail, was a “way to help our friend without government
restrictions,” according to the indictment.  Another donor, identified as Person D, also funneled money
to Hunter, paying for more than $80,000 in chartered flights
between Raleigh, North Carolina; Aspen,  Colorado ;  Fort
Lauderdale ,  Florida ; and  Santa Barbara ,  California , in December
2007 and January 2008, according to the indictment. Person D
also paid more than $58,000 to rent a house in Santa Barbara in
January 2008, according to the indictment.  In August 2009, Edwards allegedly confessed to a former
campaign employee that he was aware Person D had provided money
to support and hide Hunter from the media, according to the
indictment. Edwards allegedly told that employee that “for
legal and practical reasons,” a statement he prepared admitting
he fathered Hunter’s child shouldn’t mention that fact,
prosecutors said in the indictment.  ‘Erroneous Reading’  A statement from Scott E. Thomas, a former chairman of the
 Federal Election Commission , identified the two donors as Mellon
and Fred Baron. Thomas, who was retained by lawyers for Edwards
as an expert witness, said an indictment of the former
presidential candidate is “far-reaching” and an “erroneous
reading” of the federal election law.  “These payments would not be considered to be either
campaign contributions or campaign expenditures within the
meaning of the campaign finance laws,” Thomas said in an e-
mailed statement. “The criminal prosecution of a candidate on
these facts would be outside anything I would expect after
decades of experience with campaign finance laws.”  Former federal prosecutor Robert Mintz, now a partner with
McCarter & English LLP, said the government’s case will hinge on
Edwards’ involvement.  Key to Case  “The key to the government’s case here will not be so much
about proving what was done to protect the Edwards’ campaign,
but proving that it was done with his knowledge and
complicity,” Mintz said.  The Edwards case is being handled by the U.S. Attorney’s
Office in Raleigh and the  Justice Department ’s Public Integrity
Section. The public integrity unit came under scrutiny for its
handling of the corruption case against the late Senator Ted Stevens, an Alaska Republican. Attorney General  Eric Holder ,
after discovering prosecutors improperly withheld evidence from
defense lawyers about a key government witness, asked that
Stevens’s conviction be thrown out in 2009.  The Stevens case led to a shakeup in leadership of the
section and to new training programs for federal prosecutors.
John “Jack” Smith, a career federal prosecutor, was brought in
to lead the section in March 2010.  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of North Carolina (Greensboro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Peragine in Winston-Salem, North Carolina at
 drjohnnd@hotmail.com ;
Jerry Adams in Winston-Salem, North Carolina at
 jjadams@bellsouth.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  