-- 
Edwards Charged Over Donations to Hide Affair

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n ,   J u s t i n   B l u m   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-06-03T18:23:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/edwards-indicted-over-campaign-contributions.html
Two-time U.S. presidential candidate
and former  North Carolina  Senator John Edwards was indicted for
allegedly accepting more than $925,000 in illegal campaign
contributions to cover up an extramarital affair.  A federal grand jury indicted Edwards, 57, on six counts,
including conspiracy, false statements and for accepting illegal
campaign contributions. The donations came in 2007 and 2008 and
were part of an effort to prevent public revelations that would
undermine his presidential campaign, according to the indictment
filed today in federal court in Greensboro, North Carolina.  Edwards, a Democrat, has been the subject of a two-year
investigation into whether he used the funds to conceal his
relationship with filmmaker Rielle Hunter, with whom he had a
child, while running for president in 2008.  “Edwards knew that public revelation of the affair and
pregnancy would destroy his candidacy by, among other things,
undermining Edwards’ presentation of himself as a family man and
by forcing his campaign to divert personnel and resources,”
according to the indictment.  Edwards is scheduled to appear today in federal court in
Winston-Salem. Each of the six counts he faces carries a maximum
five-year prison term and potential $250,000 fine.  “ John Edwards  will tell the court he is innocent of all
charges, and will plead not guilty,” Gregory Craig, an attorney
for Edwards, said in an e-mailed statement. “He did not break
the law and will mount a vigorous defense.”  White House Counsel  Craig, a partner at the  Washington  office of New York-based
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, served as White House
counsel to U.S. President  Barack Obama .  Edwards publicly acknowledged the relationship with Hunter
in August 2008. A lawyer who served in the Senate from 1999 to
2005, Edwards was Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry ’s running
mate in the 2004 presidential election. In January 2008, he
withdrew as a presidential candidate, later revealing his affair
after a newspaper reported that he fathered Hunter’s daughter.  In an interview with ABC News in August 2008, Edwards said
the relationship with Hunter began in 2006 after he met her in a
bar in  New York . He later hired her to produce Web videos for
his campaign. Edwards, who has denied providing money to Hunter,
claimed paternity of her child in 2009.  In a 2009 book, Elizabeth Edwards said her husband
confessed the affair in the final days of 2006, after returning
home from a tour announcing his second run for president.  Elizabeth Edwards died in December after a six-year battle
with  breast cancer .  Federal Election Act  The Federal Election Act limits the amount individuals may
contribute to candidates. The most an individual could
contribute in the 2008 presidential primary was $2,300.  Edwards accepted about $725,000 from one person and more
than $200,000 from another, according to the indictment.  The payments at issue were used to cover Hunter’s rent,
medical visits and prenatal expenses, in addition to travel and
hotel accommodations to hide her from the public, according to
the indictment.  Edwards emerged on the national scene in 1998 when, with
little experience in politics, he defeated North Carolina
Republican Senator Lauch Faircloth. Shortly after being sworn
into office, the Senate’s Democratic leaders tapped him to help
handle the impeachment of President  Bill Clinton .  Single Term  Edwards gave up his Senate seat after a single term in
order to run for what would be the first of two failed
presidential campaigns.  Though he had made millions of dollars as one of North
Carolina’s top trial lawyers, Edwards ran populist campaigns in
which he railed against the divide between rich and poor
-- “Two Americas,” he called it -- while frequently referring
to his father’s work in a textile mill.  One former federal prosecutor said the government may have
a difficult time proving its case against Edwards as juries are
often willing to forgive indiscretions involving extramarital
affairs.  “Juries are loath to convict a public figure for mistress-
related crimes,” said Ken Julian, now with Manatt Phelps &
Phillips LLP in  Los Angeles . “Even if he did step over the
line, I think they’ll have a hard time pulling the trigger.”  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S. District Court
for the Middle District of North Carolina (Greensboro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
 Justin Blum  in Washington at   jblum4@bloomberg.net  and;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net 
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  