-- 
Emerging Equity Funds Post First Weekly Inflows in Three, Citigroup Says

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-06-03T02:59:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/emerging-market-stocks-funds-report-first-inflow-in-three-weeks-citi-says.html
Emerging-market equity funds
attracted about $820 million in the week ended June 1, snapping
two consecutive weeks of outflows, according to Citigroup Inc.  Funds investing in developing-nation stocks globally took
in $677 million while those focusing on Asia, excluding Japan,
drew $270 million, Citigroup analysts  Markus Rosgen , Kelly Kwok
and Yue Hin Pong wrote in a report today, citing figures from
EPFR Global. Latin America funds had net inflows of $104
million, while those for Europe, the Middle East and Africa
“lagged” behind, according to the report.  Stocks in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index are valued at
11.1 times estimated earnings, less than a multiple of 12.7 for
MSCI World Index of developed nations. The index for developing
equities rose 0.1 percent to 1,160.51 as of 10:57 a.m. in
Singapore, set for the biggest weekly rally in six weeks.  “Investors like the stronger global emerging market growth
outlook and attractive valuations,” Rosgen said in an e-mail to
Bloomberg.  China ’s inflation will probably peak at the end of this
month, averting a hard landing for the economy, China Daily
cited former Chinese central bank adviser Fan Gang as saying in
 Hong Kong  yesterday. South African economic growth accelerated
to the fastest pace in a year in the first quarter as the lowest
 interest rates  in three decades spurred manufacturers to restock
to meet rising demand, according to a June 1 report by
Statistics  South Africa .  U.S. Growth Slows  Emerging-market equities have outpaced their developed-
nation peers this week, with the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index set for a 0.9
percent weekly drop. Reports this week showed U.S. manufacturing
and consumer confidence cooled, while data from ADP Employer
Services missed economists’ forecasts for jobs growth.  The dollar headed for a weekly drop versus most major peers
amid signs of a faltering U.S. recovery and after Moody’s
Investors Service said yesterday it may put the government’s Aaa
credit rating on review for a downgrade. The Dollar Index, which
tracks the currency against those of six major trading partners,
reached the lowest level in almost a month today.  The weaker U.S. dollar and a “softening in inflation
readings” also helped boost inflows to higher-yield emerging
markets, Citigroup’s Kwok said in a separate e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  