-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Decline on Concern U.S. Economic Growth May Slow

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-06-03T22:01:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/emerging-stocks-rise-set-for-biggest-weekly-advance-in-six-on-fund-flows.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, paring a
weekly gain by the benchmark index, as a report that U.S.
employers added fewer jobs in May than forecast heightened
concern that the world’s largest economy is weakening.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.3 percent to
1,155.51 as of 4 p.m. in  New York , cutting this week’s gain to
0.7 percent. Russia’s Micex Index dropped 1.5 percent,  Turkey ’s
 ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  retreated 0.5 percent,  India ’s Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index declined by 0.6 percent and
 Mexico ’s IPC index fell 0.8 percent.  U.S. employers in May added the fewest number of workers in
eight months and unemployment unexpectedly rose to 9.1 percent,
according to a U.S. Labor Department report. U.S. payrolls
increased by 54,000 last month, less than the 165,000 median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Concern about the U.S. economic recovery will impact
emerging markets through the third quarter as China,  Brazil  and
India act to slow domestic inflation, said Komal Sri-Kumar,
chief global strategist at TCW Group Inc.  “So much for the emerging markets depends on where the
United States economy goes in the next three months,” Sri-Kumar
said in an interview from  Los Angeles . “The emerging market
fight against inflation is not yet finished, and food price
inflation is particularly pernicious in China and India. In
Brazil, we’re talking about a significantly overvalued
currency.”  Brazil’s real fell 0.1 percent to 1.5763 per dollar, from
1.5750 yesterday. The currency gained 1.1 percent this week.  U.S. Rating  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday that it will put
the U.S. government’s Aaa credit rating under review for a
downgrade unless there’s progress on increasing the debt limit
by mid-July.  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
agreed to pay the next installment to  Greece  under last year’s
110 billion-euro ($161 billion) bailout, paving the way for an
upgraded aid package that includes a “voluntary” role for
investors.  OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest natural gas producer, was
among the biggest decliners in Moscow, sliding 2.5 percent, its
third straight drop. OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s biggest lender, fell
1.8 percent.  Oil fell as much as 2.3 percent in New York to $98.12 a
barrel. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials rose
0.2 percent after earlier declining as much as 1.2 percent.  Brazil Credit  The Bovespa index rose 0.2 percent, advancing for a second
day, as retailers advanced after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
said the government doesn’t see the need for further measures to
curb credit. Lojas Renner SA, Brazil’s biggest publicly traded
clothing retailer, rose 4.1 percent leading gains by companies
that depend on domestic demand.  The Lima General Index declined 2.3 percent two days before
Peru will hold its presidential election. Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori is running even in polls with former army officer
Ollanta Humala.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index declined 0.9 percent.  Bank shares led stocks in Istanbul lower after inflation
surged to 7.2 percent in May from 4.3 percent a month earlier,
according to the statistics office in Ankara.  The Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.8 percent.  China ’s inflation will probably peak at the end of this
month, averting a hard landing for the economy,  China Daily 
cited former Chinese central bank adviser Fan Gang as saying in
 Hong Kong  yesterday.  The Taiex Index rose 0.6 percent in Taipei.  Emerging-market equity funds attracted about $820 million
in the week ended June 1, snapping two consecutive weeks of
outflows, Citigroup Inc. wrote in a report today, citing data
from EPFR Global. In India, foreign investors became net buyers
of the nation’s equities this year, data through June 1 showed.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 310 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  