-- 
U.S. Probably Added Fewer Workers in May as Economy Cooled

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-03T08:23:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/employers-probably-added-fewer-workers-to-payrolls-as-u-s-economy-cooled.html
Employers probably hired fewer
workers in May, a sign U.S. businesses are losing confidence as
the world’s largest economy cools, economists said before a
report today.  Payrolls rose by 165,000, the smallest gain in four months,
after increasing 244,000 in April, according to the median of 89
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The jobless rate may have
partially reversed April’s advance, falling to 8.9 percent from
9 percent.  Companies may try to restrain labor costs amid concern
consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy, will keep slowing as households contend with rising
food and fuel expenses. The recovery’s failure to create more
jobs raises the odds  Federal Reserve  policy makers will hold
 interest rates  close to zero into next year.  “The economy has slowed, and employment has slowed as
well,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in  New York . Policy makers will “continue
emphasizing that they’ll keep interest rates on hold for a very
long time.”  The Labor Department’s data are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Bloomberg payroll survey estimates ranged from
increases of 65,000 to 250,000. Projections in the Bloomberg
survey for the  unemployment rate  ranged from 8.7 percent to 9.1
percent.  Treasuries Rise  In addition to companies, investors may be losing
confidence in the speed of the economic expansion. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index has dropped 3.7 percent since the end of
April.  Treasuries rose before the report, headed for a third
consecutive weekly advance. Ten-year yields were two basis
points lower at 3.02 percent as of 9:13 a.m. in  London ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index was little changed at 274.60.  Private payrolls, which exclude government positions, grew
175,000, according to the survey median. Manufacturing
employment gains probably slowed to 10,000 after a 29,000
increase in April, the figures may show.  Manufacturing grew in May at the slowest pace in more than
a year, according to Institute for Supply Management data this
week, reinforcing concern the industry that led the U.S.
recovery is cooling.  Consumer spending  grew less than forecast
in April as households felt the pinch of grocery and energy
costs, a Commerce Department report showed.  Fed Response  Economic growth slipped to a 1.8 percent annual pace in the
first three months of the year from 3.1 percent in the prior
quarter, revised figures from the Commerce Department showed
last week.  Economists including Feroli said the wave of weak economic
data may spur Fed policy makers to support growth by making it
clear after their June meeting they’re in no hurry to shrink the
central bank’s record balance sheet. The Fed’s second $600
billion round of asset purchases ends this month, and it may
keep reinvesting proceeds from maturing debt, they said. The Fed
next meets June 21-22.  “The current accommodative stance of U.S. monetary policy
continues to be appropriate because the unemployment rate
remains elevated and inflation is expected to remain subdued
over the medium run,” Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said in a
Tokyo speech this week.  Factory Closures  Companies still reducing their workforce include H.J. Heinz
Co., the world’s biggest ketchup maker, which in May announced
plans to slash as many as 1,000 jobs worldwide and close five
factories.  Dean Foods Co. (DF) , the largest U.S. milk processor, said
it cut 600 positions last quarter and 140 early this quarter.  At the same time, jobs are being created as some businesses
expand.  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s finance unit in May said it will
add 1,000 people to its Chicago-area operations, mostly new
hires, as commercial lending improves in the Americas. About 500
will be hired in 2012, with another 500 over the next several
years, Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE said. The company also
announced last month that it will open a locomotive plant
employing more than 500 people in  Fort Worth ,  Texas .  “ Job creation  remains the most important factor during the
economic recovery, but we do anticipate that it’s continuing to
improve,”  Don Johnson , vice president of U.S. sales at  General
Motors Co. (GM) , said on a June 1 teleconference. “The environment
for future hiring and investment does continue to be positive.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  