-- 
EPA Said to Delay Draft Power-Plant Carbon Rules by Two Months

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-06-03T23:48:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/epa-said-to-delay-draft-power-plant-carbon-rules-by-two-months.html
(Corrects parties to settlement in 12th and 13th
paragraphs.)  The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency plans to delay draft greenhouse-gas emissions limits for
power plants, according to two people briefed on the
discussions.  The EPA faced a July 26 deadline to propose carbon-
emissions standards for electric utilities under an agreement
with three environmental groups, 11 states, the  District of
Columbia  and  New York  City.  Federal regulators are now seeking a two-month extension
from parties to the settlement to evaluate information from
companies affected by the rule, according to one of the people,
who said the delay isn’t expected to alter the May 26 deadline
for making the rule final. The people spoke on condition of
anonymity because no announcement has been made.  “We have nothing to announce,” EPA spokesman  Brendan
Gilfillan  said in an e-mailed statement.  The emission regulations would have the biggest effect on
utilities that mostly burn coal to generate electricity, such as
Columbus, Ohio-based American Electric Power Co. and  Southern
Co. (SO)  in Atlanta.  The possibility of a postponement was reported yesterday by
the National Journal.  The agency is acting after the Senate failed last year to
act on House-passed legislation to cap carbon-dioxide releases.  The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2007 that the EPA could
regulate emissions contributing to  climate change  under the
Clean Air Act.  Court Settlement  The same year, the governments and environmental groups
filed suit in an attempt to force the agency to include
greenhouse gases among pollutants restricted for power plants.
The settlement halted the petitioners’ case, which was pending
before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.  Congressional Republicans and some coal-state Democrats are
trying to block the proposed EPA rules, which they contend would
raise energy prices and cost jobs. Advocates say the rules would
spur clean-energy innovation.  The Republican-led House voted to prohibit the EPA from
regulating greenhouse gases. The Democratic-controlled Senate
blocked a similar proposal.  The EPA is also drafting greenhouse-gas standards for oil
refineries, set for release by December 10.  The parties to the power-plant settlement include the
 Natural Resources Defense Council  and the Environmental Defense
Fund, both of New York, and the San Francisco-based Sierra Club.
The states in the settlement were New York,  California ,
Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, New Mexico, Oregon,  Rhode Island ,
Vermont,  Washington  and Massachusetts.  Final refinery rules must be released by November 10, 2012.  Electric utilities account for 63 percent of industrial
greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. Petroleum refineries
account for 6 percent of the total, according to the EPA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  