-- 
EU Preparing New Rescue Package for Greece

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-06-04T17:34:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/eu-preparing-new-rescue-package-for-greece.html
European Union officials will focus
on preparing a new aid package for  Greece  that includes a
“voluntary” role for investors after the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund  approved the fifth installment of
Greece’s 110 billion-euro ($161 billion) bailout.  “I expect the euro group to agree to additional financing
to be provided to Greece under strict conditionality,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said after meeting
with Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  in Luxembourg on
June 3. “This conditionality will include private-sector
involvement on a voluntary basis.”  Papandreou agreed to 78 billion euros in additional
austerity measures and asset sales through 2015 to secure the 12
billion-euro bailout payment and meet conditions for receiving
an additional rescue package. He agreed to make “significant”
cuts in public-sector employment and establish an agency to
manage accelerated asset sales, according to a statement
released in  Athens  on June 3. The plan is fueling popular
opposition and protests across Greece.  Greek bonds gained on the prospect of a new aid plan, with
the yield on the country’s two-year notes falling 172 basis
points yesterday to 22.8 percent, the lowest since April 20. The
agreements came at the end of a week when Greece’s fiscal crisis
worsened enough for Moody’s Investors Service to raise the
probability of a default to 50 percent.  ‘Debt Problem’  “The current discussions over the Greek debt problem have
arisen mostly because of a realization that Greece won’t be able
to raise money through normal bond issuance in 2012,” said
Justin Knight, an analyst at UBS AG in  London . “The choice for
policy makers is one between funneling more aid funds into
Greece to avoid default next year and restructuring debt now so
that funds due to be paid to Greece under the current plan can
last longer.”  A year after the rescue that aimed to stop the spread of
the debt crisis, Greece remains mired in a third year of
recession, shut out of financial markets and saddled with the
biggest debt load in the euro’s history. Ireland and Portugal
followed in seeking bailouts and Greece now needs a second
rescue package to avoid the euro area’s first sovereign default.  Under the original rescue, Greece was due to sell 27
billion euros of bonds next year. EU leaders and Papandreou have
acknowledged that a return to markets won’t be possible with
Greece’s 10-year debt yielding 16 percent, more than twice the
level at the time of the bailout. The EU is looking to close
that funding gap through new loans and bondholders’ willingness
to roll over Greek debt, EU officials have said.  IMF Funds  Europe ’s financial leaders needed to hammer out a revised
Greek package to persuade the IMF to pay its share of the 12
billion-euro tranche originally due in June. The IMF had
indicated that it would withhold its 3.3 billion-euro piece
unless the EU comes up with a plan to close Greece’s funding gap
for 2012. The EU-IMF statement said the full payment would be
made in early July.  The Washington-based lender provided 30 billion euros of
Greece’s original loans, along with a third of the loans since
granted to Ireland and  Portugal .  Policy makers have in recent days narrowed in on bond
rollovers as a pillar of any new aid package. The step would be
favored by the  European Central Bank , according to two officials
familiar with the situation, as it would reduce the risk of any
agreement being classified as a default. Investors may be given
preferred status, higher coupon payments or collateral, said two
other EU officials familiar with the situation. EU leaders are
due to meet in Brussels on June 23-24 to approve a plan.  Spending Cuts  About 55 percent of investors in Greek  government bonds 
would likely roll over holdings of securities maturing through
2013 to help the nation manage its  budget deficit , according to
ING Groep NV.  Euro-region governments have reached a tentative agreement
on a package in which the nation’s private-sector creditors will
contribute about 30 billion euros, the Wall Street Journal
reported today, citing unidentified senior euro-zone officials.
The process of exchanging current debt for longer maturity
replacements might begin as soon as July, the Journal said.  Papandreou is promising 6.4 billion euros of spending cuts
this year, another 22 billion euros up to 2015, and 50 billion
euros in sales of assets including  Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA (HTO)  and Public Power Corp SA. The pledges aim to get
the deficit down to 7.5 percent of gross domestic product and
were key to securing the fifth bailout payment. Papandreou is
facing a backlash against the additional measures at home.  Market ‘Turn’  Members of the PAME labor union took over the Finance
Ministry offices in central Athens yesterday, preventing
employees from entering the building. They hung a banner from
the roof calling for a general strike to oppose the measures.  A group of 16 lawmakers from Papandreou’s Pasok party this
past week sent the premier a letter asking for a discussion of
the austerity process. Papandreou will present the plan to
lawmakers and his Cabinet in the new week. Workers at state-
owned companies are organizing a 24-hour strike on June 9.  Moody’s downgraded Greece to Caa1, on a par with Cuba, and
raised the nation’s risk of default on June 1 after policy
makers considered asking investors to reinvest in new Greek debt
when existing bonds mature. The move prompted Greek 10-year
bonds to fall to the lowest since January.  ‘New Territory’  “When more details will be available and we will get
declarations that a deal has been reached, we might see a turn
in bond markets,” said  Chiara Cremonesi , a fixed-income
strategist at UniCredit SpA in London. “The risk here is that
they find a solution to fix the problem temporarily and don’t
address it structurally.”  “The general perception is that Greece will head to some
form of restructuring, and eventually the ratings will probably
move to D,” said  Brian Barry , an analyst at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in London. “For a sovereign rating to fall from
about A to this level is new territory.”  Moody’s on June 3 cut the ratings on eight Greek banks,
including the nation’s largest,  National Bank of Greece SA. (ETE)   The austerity measures have choked growth, shedding doubts
on whether Greece will generate the  tax revenue  to pay off its
debts. The economy if forecast to shrink 3.5 percent this year
after contracting more than 4 percent last year. Some economists
including Nobel-prize winner  Joseph Stiglitz  said the country
would be better off if it restructured its debt.  Buying Time  “Hopefully they will go forward with an orderly
restructuring -- that is the only way to restore growth with
equity,” the Columbia University professor told a conference in
Sitges,  Spain , on June 3. Austerity will not bolster growth,
“but is only a step to the disorderly restructuring that will
almost inevitably follow,” Stiglitz said.  The EU program is aimed more at protecting Europe’s banks,
than helping Greece, he said.  The new aid and debt rollovers will give Greece more time
to trim its budget deficit, though will do little to reduce its
rising debt load. Greece’s debt is likely to mushroom to 157.7
percent of gross domestic product in 2011, the highest in euro
history, the European Commission said on May 13.  The aid package may be more about buying time for Europe’s
banks and other high-debt nations to prepare for the fallout of
a Greek restructuring, said  James Nixon , chief European
economist at Societe Generale SA in London.  “This strategy of playing for time is not without its
merits,” he said in a note to investors on June 3. “It buys a
number of the other Europeans time to put their own house in
order and pursue their programs of fiscal consolidation. Time
hopefully will also help Europe’s banks provision against future
losses on sovereign debt. Finally and perhaps most critically,
time also enables the peripheral economies themselves to
implement fiscal reforms and return to a primary balance.”  Juncker rejected the worst-case scenario.  “It’s obvious that there will be no exit of Greece from
the euro area,” he said. “There will be no default and Greece
will be able to fully honor its obligations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  