-- 
EU Urges Slovenians to Back Pension Overhaul in Referendum

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-06-03T14:03:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/eu-urges-slovenians-to-back-pension-overhaul-in-referendum.html
European Union leaders including
 Angela Merkel  of  Germany  urged Slovenians to approve an increase
in the retirement age as polls indicate the proposal is likely
to be rejected in a referendum in the former Yugoslav republic.  The euro-region country of 2 million residents “needs to
overhaul its pension system” as its population ages and puts
pressure on the budget, EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  told
reporters today at Brdo, near the capital Ljubljana, after
meeting with Slovenian officials including Prime Minister Borut Pahor.  “Slovenia will have to implement the pension reform sooner
or later,” Van Rompuy said. “The situation in Slovenia is much
better than in other EU countries in regards to public debt and
the economic recovery, which is robust.”  Some 52.2 percent of Slovenians say they’ll reject lifting
the  retirement age  to 65 from an average of 60 in the June 5
vote, with 31.4 percent backing the change, according to a
survey by Delo Stik, a polling agency, published today in Delo
newspaper.  The measure was adopted by lawmakers in December and put to
a popular vote at the request of the country’s largest trade
union. Slovenian officials, including central bank Governor
Marko Kranjec, have warned that a rejection would put pressure
on government finances already strained in the global recession.  Kranjec last week criticized the government for adding to
the deficit with assistance to state-owned companies, saying
Slovenia risks finding itself in a similar situation to Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  if it fails to rein in government spending.  ‘Good Idea’  Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government believes the
initiative to raise the retirement age is “a good idea,”
spokesman Steffen Seibert told reporters in Berlin today.  Slovenia spends 1.3 billion euros ($1.9 billion) a year to
cover the shortfall in the pension system, which is
“unsustainable,” according to Finance Minister  Franc Krizanic .  The nation needs to trim the  budget deficit  to below 3
percent of gross domestic product by 2013 to meet European
stability rules. The shortfall will widen to 5.8 percent of GDP
this year from 5.6 percent in 2010, with debt rising to 42.8
percent of GDP from 38 percent, the EU said on May 13.  Slovenia’s economic recovery slowed in the first quarter on
an annual basis to 2 percent from 2.1 percent in the previous
three-month period. Gains in exports and manufacturing were
offset by continuing declines in construction-industry output.  -- With assistance by Patrick Donahue in Berlin. Editors: Andrew Atkinson,  Jeffrey Donovan   To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  