-- 
EU Vegetables Destroyed as Deadly E. Coli Outbreak Curbs Consumer Demand

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-03T15:52:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/eu-vegetables-destroyed-after-e-coli-outbreak-leads-to-market-standstill.html
European Union vegetable supplies are
being destroyed as demand is curbed by the deadliest outbreak of
E. coli on record, with producers losing millions of euros a day
because of trade restrictions.  Cucumber, lettuce and tomato prices are tumbling and orders
are being canceled, said Philippe Binard, general delegate of
Freshfel  Europe , which represents the industry. The market is at
“an alarming standstill,” according to the Brussels-based
group. The losses are forcing some farmers out of business, said
Copa-Cogeca, an agricultural lobby group based in Brussels.  “This is having a serious impact because we’re dealing
with perishable products,” Binard said by phone today. “We
can’t store it and say that in six months, when the market is
better, we’ll ship it.”  Infections have been found in 10 European nations and the
 World Health Organization  says at least 16 people died. Some
have a rare strain which releases a toxin damaging kidneys and
other organs. While German officials are advising consumers to
avoid raw tomatoes, cucumbers and lettuce, the original source
is most likely cattle, said Rowland Cobbold, a veterinary public
health researcher at the University of Queensland in  Australia .  Russia , which according to Freshfel buys 400 million euros
($580 million) of EU vegetables a year, banned imports
yesterday. That contravenes World Trade Organization rules,
Fernando Valenzuela, head of the EU delegation to Russia, was
cited by RIA Novosti as saying. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
said today he won’t “poison people” to satisfy WTO rules.  ‘Very Isolated’  “Russia is really overreacting to the situation,” Binard
said. “The ban applies to all EU countries and to all
vegetables, when we know the problem seems to be very isolated
to some parts of Germany.”  Spain ’s agriculture industry is losing 200 million euros a
week and German farmers are losing about 1 million euros a day,
said Amanda Cheesley, a spokeswoman for  Copa-Cogeca . That should
decline after cucumbers from the southwestern European country
were ruled out as the source of the bacteria, she said. None
tested positive for the type causing the outbreak, the EU said
in a  statement .  ’Nothing Sold’  “The Spanish were the most hard hit so they’re quite
angry,” Cheesley said. “When you have an announcement like
that, consumption falls for all cucumbers in all member states.
In  Belgium  on Tuesday, cucumber sales were 25 percent for 25
percent of the price. In Spain, nothing sold. Hopefully it will
pick up a bit now that they’ve cleared Spanish cucumbers.”  Farmers in Italy, the biggest European vegetable producer,
harvested 13.65 million metric tons in 2009, the most recent
data from the  United Nations ’ Food and Agriculture Organization
show. Spain was the second-biggest with 13.63 million tons.
 China  is the world’s biggest vegetable producer followed by
 India , according to the UN.  Italian cucumbers sold for 15 cents (22 U.S. cents) a
kilogram (2.2 pounds) as of May 29, compared with 70 cents at
the end of April, according to data from Instituto di Servizi
per il Merca.  ‘Supply Chain’  “This is impacting the whole supply chain,” Binard said.
“The producer is obviously the first to be affected. Behind him
are the people who are packing and shipping and the importers
and the wholesalers and the retailers are all being affected. A
lot of transport is being canceled and it’s not just in  Germany ,
it’s a situation affecting the whole of Europe.”  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero and
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  spoke by telephone yesterday and
agreed that the two countries will try to get aid for European
farmers affected, according to an e-mailed statement from the
press office of the German government.  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Tony Dreibus at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 