-- 
Euro-Area Services, Manufacturing Growth Slowest in 5 Months

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-06-03T08:57:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/euro-area-services-manufacturing-growth-slowest-in-5-months-1-.html
European services and manufacturing
growth slowed in May to the weakest in five months as economies
from  Germany  to Spain and  Italy  reported faltering output.  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries fell to 55.8 from 57.8 in April,
London-based Markit Economics said in a statement today. That’s
above an initial estimate of 55.4 published on May 23. The index
has been above 50, indicating growth, for 22 months.  The euro-region economy may struggle to gather strength
after expanding 0.8 percent in the first quarter as governments
impose spending cuts to contain a worsening debt crisis while
rising energy costs squeeze household incomes. European economic
confidence weakened in May, German investors grew more
pessimistic and the  European Central Bank  signaled it will keep
borrowing costs at 1.25 percent next week.  Today’s indicator “suggests that economic growth in the
single-currency area slowed sharply during the month,”  Chris
Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said in the statement.
“The second quarter as a whole therefore looks likely to have
seen gross domestic product growth weaken.”  The euro was little changed after the release, trading at
$1.4475 at 10:16 a.m. in  Frankfurt , down 0.1 percent on the day.  U.S. Expansion  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said on May 25 that the euro-region economy may grow 2 percent
this year and next, lagging behind a U.S. expansion of 2.6
percent and 3.1 percent in 2011 and 2012, respectively. In
 Japan , the economy may rebound next year after shrinking in
2011, it said.  The euro-area services indicator fell to 56 from 56.7 in
April, today’s report showed. The euro region’s manufacturing
gauge slipped to 54.6 from 58 in April, Markit said on June 1.
In Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, output growth slowed to
the weakest in seven months, while  France  also reported cooling
manufacturing activity from April. In Italy, the output
indicator fell to the lowest in 18 months.  While growth in Germany and France remains “impressively
strong” overall, Spain, Italy and Ireland “edged closer to
stagnation,” Williamson said. Those countries may struggle to
narrow budget gaps as their economies falter, he said.  With governments seeking ways to contain a worsening debt
crisis as investors grow increasingly concerned that  Greece  may
have to restructure its debt, ECB Jean-Claude Trichet has
signaled the bank is in no rush to raise borrowing costs further
after increasing the benchmark by 25 basis points in April. The
Frankfurt-based central bank will publish its latest economic
forecast at its June 9 meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  