-- 
European Stocks Slide for Fifth Straight Week as Economic Data Disappoints

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-06-03T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/european-stocks-slide-for-fifth-straight-week-as-economic-data-disappoints.html
European stocks declined for a fifth
straight week, the longest losing streak since July 2008, as
U.S. jobs and manufacturing data that missed forecasts fueled
concern the recovery in the world’s largest economy may falter.  Rio Tinto Group and  BHP Billiton  Ltd. led raw-material
shares to the largest drop among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index as the U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly rose and
a gauge of Chinese manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in
nine months.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  slumped the most in 10 years after the
Finnish maker of mobile phones cut its forecasts for the devices
and services unit.  The Stoxx 600 lost 1.9 percent to 273.67 this past week,
the biggest drop since March 18. The benchmark gauge for
European equities has retreated 3.6 percent over the past five
weeks amid speculation Greece may default on its debt payments
and increasing concern that global growth may slow.  “The U.S. jobs reading is a bit of a shock to the
system,” said Joshua Raymond, a market strategist at City Index
Ltd. in London. “The recent data coming out of the U.S. paints
the picture of a sharp slowdown in activity this quarter.”  The U.K.’s FTSE 100 declined 1.4 percent, Germany’s DAX
slipped 0.8 percent and  France ’s CAC 40 fell 1.5 percent, the
biggest drop in seven weeks.  Greece ’s ASE Index rallied 5.4
percent amid speculated that European officials will sanction
additional financial assistance for the indebted nation.  U.S. Economy  U.S. nonfarm payrolls grew by the smallest number of
workers in eight months in May. Employers added 54,000 workers
to payrolls, missing the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
for an increase of 165,000. The jobless rate rose to 9.1
percent, the highest level this year.  The Labor Department report followed worse-than-estimated
data on factory orders, manufacturing and  consumer confidence 
this week, causing investors to debate whether the  Federal
Reserve  needs to consider a third round of quantitative easing
to bolster growth.  “It’s back to our old new normal,” Bill Gross, who runs
the world’s biggest mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management
Co., said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene . “We don’t see a QE3. There’s been too much
discussion and dissent within the Fed to permit that type of
program again.”  Mohamed El-Erian, who serves as co-chief investment officer
with Gross at Pimco, coined the term “new normal” to describe
what he forecasts is an era of prolonged below-average global
economic growth and investment returns.  Stimulus Measures  The Stoxx 600 has still rallied 73 percent since March 2009
amid record-low  interest rates  and emergency stimulus measures
from governments and central banks around the world. The gauge
has slipped 0.8 percent this year.  The  European Central Bank  is likely to raise interest rates
in July even as Greece’s worsening debt crisis clouds the
economic outlook in the run-up to next week’s policy meeting, a
Bloomberg survey showed.  All 51 economists forecast the ECB will keep the benchmark
rate at 1.25 percent at the June 9 meeting. The Frankfurt-based
central bank led by Jean-Claude Trichet may increase borrowing
costs by 25 basis points in July, a separate survey showed.  A measure of basic-resource stocks in the Stoxx 600 tumbled
4.9 percent this week, the most in almost three months, as
 China ’s manufacturing growth eased. The Purchasing Managers’
Index dropped to 52 in May from 52.9 in April, the China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said. A gauge of
manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area slipped to 54.6 last
month from 58 in April, London-based Markit Economics said. A
reading of more than 50 indicates growth.  BHP,  Rio Tinto   BHP Billiton, the world’s largest mining company, lost 3.5
percent and Rio Tinto retreated 3.7 percent. Antofagasta lost
2.8 percent and Anglo American Plc declined 1.7 percent.  Nokia tumbled 22 percent to the lowest since January 1998
after cutting its devices and services forecasts on lower prices
and competition from Google Inc. and Apple Inc. Nokia’s stock
has lost about three-quarters of its value since Apple
introduced the iPhone in 2007. The phone maker has declined 42
percent this year, cutting the company’s market value to 16.8
billion euros ($24.6 billion).  Unione di Banche Italiane ScpA (UBI)  tumbled 4.8 percent as
 Italy ’s fourth-biggest bank said it will raise as much as 1
billion euros selling shares to bolster capital.  EON, RWE Decline  EON AG and RWE AG,  Germany ’s biggest utilities, fell 5.9
percent and 6.9 percent, respectively, as the German government
said it will keep a tax on atomic plants as it phases out
nuclear power by 2022.  Greek banks were among the biggest gainers this week as the
European Union, European Central Bank and  International Monetary
Fund  concluded talks with the Mediterranean country’s
government.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  soared 16 percent, the
most since 2008, and EFG Eurobank Ergasias rallied 12 percent.  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
agreed to pay the next installment to Greece under last year’s
110 billion-euro bailout, paving the way for an upgraded aid
package that includes a “voluntary” role for investors,
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said after the
close of Athens trading yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  