-- 
Euro Gains to Four-Week High Against Dollar After Greece Gets New Aid Plan

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-06-03T21:09:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/euro-gains-to-four-week-high-against-dollar-after-greece-gets-new-aid-plan.html
The euro rose to a four-week high
against the dollar after  Greece  was approved for more assistance
to address its debt crisis and a report showed U.S. employers in
May added the fewest jobs in eight months.  Europe ’s shared currency extended its gains after
Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of euro-
area finance ministers, said they agreed to pay the next
installment to Greece under last year’s 110 billion-euro ($161
billion) bailout. The U.S. currency dropped to a record low
against the Swiss franc as investors sought haven assets after
the jobless rate unexpectedly rose to 9.1 percent.  “With the strong growth in the European core, the
interest-rate differential and the likelihood that you’re going
to get another bailout for Greece, it’s a recipe for euro
strength,” said Jessica Hoversen, a New York-based analyst at
the futures broker MF Global Holdings Ltd.  The euro rose 1 percent to $1.4635 at 5 p.m. in  New York 
and touched $1.4643, the most since May 5. The currency rose for
a second day against the Japanese yen, trading at 117.48. The
dollar fell 1.1 percent versus the franc to 83.35 centimes,
touching 83.31, the lowest since at least 1971.  The dollar has dropped 6.5 percent this year against its
nine developed-nation counterparts, the biggest decline in the
group, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes. The euro has gained 3.2 percent this year and the yen
has dropped 5.5 percent.  Futures Bets  Futures traders reversed their bets that the yen will gain
against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the yen compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 1,648 on May 31,
compared with net longs of 8,006 a week earlier.  U.S. payrolls increased by a less-than-projected 54,000
last month, after a revised 232,000 gain in April that was
smaller than initially reported, Labor Department figures showed
today in  Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey called for payrolls to rise 165,000. The jobless rate
climbed to the highest level this year from 9 percent a month
earlier.  ‘Ugly Number’  “It’s an ugly, ugly number. It shows a considerable
slowdown in economic activity,” said Boris Schlossberg,
director of research at online currency trader GFT Forex in New
York. “The Aussie dollar is tumbling very badly because it’s
clearly reacting to the negative risk news of the day.”  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of U.S. non-
manufacturing business increased to 54.6 in May from 52.8 a
month earlier. The median forecast of 74 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected the measure would rise to 54.  The Fed has kept its benchmark interest rate at a record
low of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. Futures
contracts show the likelihood of an increase in the fed funds
target by the central bank’s March 2012 meeting fell to 23
percent today, from 26 percent yesterday. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  meets June 22.  The  European Central Bank  raised its rate by 25 basis
points in April and may increase rates again when it meets in
July, a Bloomberg survey showed.  European Manufacturing  Factory-gate prices  in the euro region rose 0.9 percent in
April from the previous month, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg is forecast to say on June 6, according to
a Bloomberg News survey.  EU and International Monetary Fund officials agreed to pay
the next installment to Greece under last year’s bailout, paving
the way for an upgraded aid package that includes a
“voluntary” role for investors. Greece’s government said a
review of the country’s economic progress concluded
“positively.”  “I expect the eurogroup to agree to additional financing
to be provided to Greece under strict conditionality,”
Luxembourg’s Juncker said after meeting with Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  in Luxembourg today. “This
conditionality will include private sector involvement on a
voluntary basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  