-- 
European Stocks Retreat After U.S. Job Report; EON, RWE Decline

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-06-03T16:15:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/european-stock-futures-advance-before-u-s-employment-data-asos-may-move.html
European stocks fell, extending the
fifth week of declines for the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
after a U.S. jobs report showed that the world’s largest economy
added fewer workers than forecast.  EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE)  declined following a report that the
utilities will have to lower their sales forecasts. Alpha Bank
SA and  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  advanced more than 7 percent
as the head of the group of euro-area finance ministers said
that the European Union will pay the next installment of
 Greece ’s aid package.  The Stoxx 600 lost 0.4 percent to 273.67 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in  London . The gauge had its largest three-day drop since
March. The index declined 1.9 percent this week, its fifth
straight retreat for the longest losing streak since July 2008.
Reports on U.S. employment and manufacturing this week trailed
economists’ forecasts and a gauge of Chinese manufacturing
expanded at the slowest pace in nine months.  “The second half of the year will show a general weakening
of economic activity,” said Martin Huefner, chief economist at
Assenagon GmbH in Munich, which manages more than $4.7 billion
of client assets. “The market may be terrified after payrolls
data, but this is not the end of the upswing. It is a lower
uptrend.”  U.S. Payrolls, Jobless  U.S. nonfarm payrolls increased by the smallest number of
workers in eight months and unemployment unexpectedly rose to
9.1 percent. Employers added 54,000 workers to payrolls in May.
That missed the the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
for payrolls to climb by 165,000. The jobless rate rose to the
highest level this year from 9 percent in April.  Separately, Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday that
it will put the U.S. government’s Aaa credit rating under review
for a downgrade unless there’s progress on increasing the debt
limit by mid-July.  National benchmark indexes fell in 8 of the 17 western
European markets trading today. Germany’s DAX Index rose 0.5
percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index gained 0.1 percent and
 France ’s CAC 40 Index was little changed.  Greek stocks rallied, with the ASE Index advancing 4.4
percent, after  Jean-Claude Juncker , who is also prime minister
of Luxembourg, said that EU and International Monetary Fund
officials had agreed to pay the next installment of Greece’s 110
billion-euro ($161 billion) bailout. The Mediterranean country’s
government earlier said a review of its economic progress with
both sets of officials concluded “positively” today.  Alpha Bank SA, Greece’s third-biggest lender, jumped 13
percent to 3.51 euros, while National Bank of Greece SA, the
country’s largest lender, surged 7.8 percent to 5.25 euros. EFG
Eurobank Ergasias SA rallied 11 percent to 3.42 euros.  EON, RWE Jump  EON and RWE,  Germany ’s biggest utilities, declined 1.2
percent to 18.84 euros and 2.7 percent to 38.19 euros,
respectively. Germany’s four largest electricity companies, EON,
RWE, Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG and Vattenfall Europe AG will
lose about 3.5 billion euros in sales per year from the
permanent shut down of 8 out of Germany’s 17 nuclear power
plants, Financial Times Deutschland said, citing its own
calculations. Moody’s placed EON’s “A2/P-1” ratings on review
for downgrade after the announcement.  Bank of Ireland  Bank of Ireland Plc sank 13 percent to 14.3 euro cents as
the lender said it will hold a rights offer with the Irish state
underwriting the shares at a price of 10 cents.  Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE)  retreated 3.6 percent to 83.75 kronor
as the company acquired a 75 percent interest in a block off the
coast of Peninsula Malaysia. Petronas Carigali Sdn Bhd, the
country’s national oil company, holds the remaining 25 percent
interest.  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC)  surged 3.8 percent to 249.1 pence, the
biggest gain since April 28, after JPMorgan Chase & Co. rated
the rail and bus operator “overweight” in new coverage.  Fiat SpA (F)  rose 3.6 percent to 7.36 euros, its first advance
in three days. Italy’s biggest carmaker will pay $500 million
for the U.S. government’s remaining 6 percent stake in Chrysler
Group LLC, ending the Treasury’s involvement in the carmaker.  Volvo AB’s Stefano Chmielewski, head of the Renault truck
unit, said the company will be interested in buying the Daily
range of light trucks produced by Fiat Industrial SpA’s Iveco
division, if it goes on sale, according to an interview in Il
Sole 24 Ore today. Fiat Industrial’s shares increased 1.4
percent to 9.15 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  