-- 
U.K. Spectrum Sale Should Not Dictate Market Size, Vodafone Says

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-06-03T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/everything-everywhere-says-spectrum-proposals-limit-competition.html
U.K. regulators must avoid determining
the number of mobile-phone operators in the country before a 
frequency auction that may raise as much as 2.6 billion pounds 
($4.3 billion), said  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s public policy director.  Ofcom wants to maintain at least four national carriers and
would impose limits on the minimum and maximum amounts of
frequencies set to go on sale in the first quarter of 2012 to
ensure competition. The industry should decide the size of the
market in the long run, Richard Feasey said.  “I’m not sure it’s always wise for regulators to always
prescribe what the market structure will be,” Feasey said in an
interview yesterday in Athens. “It’s important to get it done
right, more than getting it done fast.”  The auction has been delayed for more than two years amid
legal challenges. Vodafone, the world’s largest wireless
carrier, and  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2 previously opposed restrictions
on the amount of low-frequency spectrum they could bid for.
Market leader Everything Everywhere, a venture of  France Telecom
SA (FTE)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , said Ofcom’s proposals haven’t gone
far enough and are “undermining the long-term prospects” of
operators who don’t hold low frequency airwaves.  The venture is asking Ofcom to increase the minimum amount
of 800 megahertz spectrum that operators can acquire.  Data Boom  The auction will sell frequencies equivalent to three-
quarters of the spectrum now used by operators. Carriers need
the bandwidth to cope with surging data demand as users watch
films and surf the Web on smartphones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone and handsets using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system.  Newbury, England-based Vodafone and Madrid-based Telefonica
are the only operators in the U.K. to hold low-frequency 900
megahertz airwaves.  France  Telecom’s Orange and Deutsche
Telekom’s T-Mobile together own five times as much of the 1.8
gigahertz band than the other two operators combined.  “The current proposals for the sub-1GHz spectrum do not
significantly reduce O2 and Vodafone’s dominance in the
market,” Everything Everywhere said.  Everything Everywhere had 27.7 million customers at the end
of March, after losing 155,000 users it shifted to longer
contracts. Telefonica’s client base climbed 4 percent to 22.3
million customers. Vodafone, the third-largest operator in the
U.K., had 19.1 million subscribers.  Certainty Needed  “The UK has suffered particularly acutely from a very
extended period of uncertainty on this issue,” Feasey said.
“It’s very desirable that there is more certainty about what
the long-term position of spectrum will be, and that will only
arise after the auction is completed because then the industry
in the U.K. can get on with investing and building the next
infrastructure.”  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , the smallest of the four operators,
said this week that it would pay a fair price at the auction if
the proposals continue to ensure at least four national
operators can remain in the market.  “In essence our view is that they haven’t gone far
enough,” Kip Meek, who advises Everything Everywhere and
formerly worked for Ofcom, said in an interview. The company is
still “very supportive of a quick solution.”  Ofcom sought submissions by May 31, although some
operators, including Vodafone, haven’t put in responses. The
regulator plans to publish their comments when they become
available.  Spectrum sales will also take place in France,  Spain ,
Switzerland and  Italy  this year as frequencies from television
signals become available. Regulators are also planning an
auction in the Netherlands in 2012.  In Italy, the sale will start as early as September and be
completed by the end of the year, Enzo Savarese, commissioner of
the Agcom  regulator , said in an interview in  Athens . Italy plans
to publish technical rules next week, he said.  The Italian government and local broadcasters will take
between six to 12 months to agree on freeing up frequencies by
combining their programs, Savarese said. The airwaves will be
available by the end of 2012, one year after the operators pay
for them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Athens via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net 
 Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  