-- 
Levin Warns Republican Tax ‘Blindfold’ Would Hurt Families

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-06-03T15:44:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/levin-warns-republican-income-tax-plans-would-threaten-cherished-breaks.html
U.S. Representative Sander Levin, the
top Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, is warning
that Republican plans to lower corporate and individual tax
rates would endanger tax breaks that help people pay for health
care, housing and retirement.  Achieving the Republican goals of reducing the 35 percent
top tax rates on individual and corporate income to 25 percent
would lead to tax increases for middle-income families who
depend on the mortgage interest deduction and incentives for
higher education, he said today in Washington at the  Center for
American Progress , a group that often supports Democratic
policies.  “We should make clear as a basic principle that we’re not
going to unfairly increase the tax burden of working families,”
he said. “Tax reform must not make our tax system less
progressive.”  Levin, as the top tax writer for the minority party in the
House, will have little power to advance a tax bill that will be
written by Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican. Democrats will have a say in the outcome because
they control the Senate and the White House.  President  Barack Obama  has called for an overhaul of the
corporate tax code that would lower rates, broaden the tax base
and raise the same amount of revenue as the current corporate
tax system. Obama also wants to allow tax cuts to expire next
year for income above $200,000 for individuals and $250,000 for
married couples.  Raising Revenue  In an April speech, Obama said he wanted to raise an
additional $1 trillion over the next 12 years by reducing
targeted tax provisions. That revenue would come only from
taxpayers with the highest incomes.  The fiscal commission that Obama appointed last year called
for eliminating many tax breaks to reduce rates.  A study  earlier
this year by the  Tax Policy Center  found that more than three-
quarters of the benefits of itemized deductions go to people in
the top 20 percent of the  income distribution .  Exclusions, such as the tax break for employer-sponsored
health care contributions, are somewhat less skewed toward high-
income earners, the study found. The preferential rates for
 capital gains  are more skewed, with the top 20 percent of
earners receiving more than 90 percent of the benefits.  Government Revenue  Levin, 79, who was Ways and Means chairman before
Republicans took control of the House in the 2010 midterm
election, is endorsing the idea of lowering the corporate rate
in a way that doesn’t cost the government revenue. He noted that
the largest corporate tax expenditures -- for manufacturing,
equipment investment and research -- all support domestic jobs.  “We need to really understand the effect of these
provisions, what we would be getting if we eliminate them and
the implications of a reformed system for  job creation ,” he
said.  A  survey conducted last month  found that 57 percent of
adult respondents would support a corporate tax change that
would lower the rate to 25 percent while “closing all of the
loopholes and exemptions that benefit companies.” Just 28
percent oppose such a change, and support for a rate cut
decreased when the elimination of tax breaks wasn’t mentioned.  Asked to choose between lowering rates to help U.S.
companies compete “in the global marketplace and create jobs
here in the U.S.” and making sure that corporations “pay their
fair share of taxes,” 34 percent chose the first option and 56
percent chose the latter.  Glover Park Survey  The survey of 1,001 adults was conducted by the  Glover Park
Group , a Washington-based government and public relations firm
whose clients have included  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Visa Inc. (V) , and the
 United Federation of Teachers , and whose partners include
several officials from  Bill Clinton ’s administration.  Camp and fellow Republican Representative  Paul Ryan  of
 Wisconsin , chairman of the House Budget Committee, have called
for a 25 percent rate without saying what tax breaks should be
eliminated or curtailed. They want to extend all of the expiring
income tax cuts and use that revenue level as the standard that
a tax overhaul should hit.  An April analysis by the  Tax Policy Center , a nonpartisan
policy research organization in Washington, found that hitting
those targets would require eliminating more than $2.9 trillion
in tax breaks over the next decade.  Raising Taxes  Camp’s spokesman, Sage Eastman, said in an e-mailed
statement that Camp thinks Levin’s “assertion that lowering the
rates would be a tax cut or increase on anyone is simply not
true.” He said Levin “clearly wants to raise taxes, especially
on small businesses and investors, but that is not” Camp’s
plan.  The Ways and Means Committee has been holding hearings
about various aspects of the  tax code . Camp hasn’t committed to
a timeline for producing a bill.  So far, Levin said, those discussions haven’t yielded
clarity on what would be needed to reduce rates to 25 percent.  “This is the equivalent, as I once put it, of putting a
blindfold on, spinning around three times, and picking a
number,” he said. “It’s time, I think, to take the blindfold
fully off. It’s time to understand clearly what that would mean
for working families.”  Levin said additional revenue should be part of the
discussion of reducing the federal  budget deficit .  “There is no way to address our problems by saying that
revenues are off the table,” he said. “It just won’t work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  