-- 
Ex-Wachovia Manager Gets Seven Years for $14 Million Fraud

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-03T18:01:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/ex-wachovia-manager-tribby-gets-seven-year-term-for-stealing-14-1-million.html
A former Wachovia Bank manager in
 Virginia  who admitted to stealing $14.1 million from bank
clients through a bogus wealth-management scheme was sentenced
to seven years in prison.  Linda Speaks Tribby, 42, who pleaded guilty to one count of
bank fraud in March, was sentenced today in federal court in
Alexandria, Virginia. Tribby used the funds to buy a helicopter,
a luxury motor home, rural houses and property, and exotic
animals, including two zebras, prosecutors said.  U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady ordered Tribby to make
full restitution to victims and forfeit property, funds held in
bank accounts and the helicopter.  “Linda Tribby’s stunning greed and extravagant lifestyle
drove her to steal more than $14 million,” U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride said in a statement.  Tribby, of Lovettsville, Virginia, was an employee of
Wachovia, bought by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in 2008, and its
predecessors for more than 25 years, according to prosecutors.
Her last job was as a business-relationship manager developing
client accounts in and around Loudoun County, prosecutors said.  From about December 2003 to January, Tribby sold some
customers on a “wealth-management account product” that she
said earned tax-free interest -- a product the bank didn’t offer
-- then transferred funds from their accounts into accounts that
she controlled, prosecutors charged.  Fake Statements  Tribby created fake balance statements for the customers
and made periodic interest payments, prosecutors said.  She used the money for purchases including a home in  West
Virginia , a hunting cabin built on about 200 acres of land in
 New York , a lake house in New York, about 100 acres of property
in  Nevada , a luxury motor home and a  Bell helicopter .  The bank, which uncovered the fraud during an internal
investigation, has reimbursed the affected customers, Aimee
Worlsey, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, said
in an e-mailed statement.  “We’re pleased that this matter, which was an isolated
case involving one former team member, has been resolved,”
Worlsey said.  Tribby, who was born and raised in Loudoun County, has been
in custody since she was arrested at Dulles International
Airport on Jan. 23 after returning from a weeklong trip to  Las
Vegas  and Phoenix with her boyfriend, according to a motion
filed by prosecutors in the case.  $30,000 in Cash  Tribby had more than $30,000 in cash in a tote bag when she
was arrested and was carrying handwritten notes in her purse
addressed to her boyfriend, her husband from whom she is
separated, her daughter and her parents admitting responsibility
for the crime, apologizing and asking them to “take care of one
another, to stay strong and to keep their faith in God,”
according to the motion.  The government was able to locate about $5.5 million in
bank accounts controlled by Tribby, although more than
$8 million remains missing, the motion said.  The case is U.S. v. Tribby, 1:11-cr-00106-LO-1, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  