-- 
Ex-Yale Lab Worker Sentenced to 44 Years in Prison for Murder of Annie Le

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-06-04T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/ex-yale-lab-worker-clark-gets-44-years-for-murder.html
Former Yale University laboratory
worker Raymond Clark was given a 44-year prison term for
murdering graduate student Annie Le five days before she was to
be married.  Clark, 26, was sentenced yesterday by  Connecticut  Superior
Court Judge Roland Fasano in New Haven. He pleaded guilty on
March 17 to murdering and attempting to sexually assault Le in
2009. He agreed to the 44-year sentence in his plea deal.  “I’m truly, truly sorry for taking Annie’s life,” Clark
told the judge. “I blame only myself, and there are no excuses
for what I’ve done.”  Clark admitted strangling Le, 24, a pharmacology student,
days before her wedding planned for Sept. 13, 2009. He cleaned
mouse cages in the lab building where her body was found.  He wore a blue dress shirt and dark slacks to court. His
parents and fiancée, Jennifer Hromadka, sat across an aisle from
Le’s family.  “I will never see Annie’s dreams come true,” the victim’s
mother, Vivian Le, told Fasano before he imposed the sentence.
“He took away her life. He took away her future.”  Le’s body was discovered hidden behind a wall in the
basement of the Yale School of Medicine research lab at 10
Amistad Street in  New Haven  the day she was to be married. The
Office of Connecticut’s Chief Medical Examiner said Le died of
“traumatic asphyxiation due to neck compression.”  Notes in Sock  At Clark’s plea hearing, state prosecutor David Strollo
said Le’s body was found with her bra pushed up and her panties
at her feet. Clark had two notes in his sock reaching out to
people for an alibi while he was in custody after being
arrested, prosecutors said.  “I took a life and continued to lie about it while Annie’s
friends, family and fiancée sat and waited,” Clark said
yesterday in court. “All I wanted was to be a good son, a good
brother and a good fiancée, but again I failed.”  Fasano sentenced Clark to 44 years for murder and 20 years
for attempted sexual assault, to run concurrently.  “He has forfeited his youth -- he may well have forfeited
his life,” Fasano said in sentencing Clark, noting that if he
lives out his sentence he won’t be released until he’s 70 years
old.  Green Pen  Before Clark’s arrest, the police found a green ink pen and
a bloodstained sock at the crime scene with both his and Le’s
DNA on them, the state said in court papers.  Investigators found Le’s e-mail address in a locker marked
“Ray” in the lab building where they both worked, according to
search-warrant documents.  A university police officer, Sabrina Wood, observed Clark
in the lab acting suspiciously two days after Le’s death,
attempting to conceal a blood-spattered box of wipes, according
to an arrest affidavit by New Haven Detective Scott Branfuhr.  The box was on a steel cart in the last room Le logged into
with her security card. The spatter matched her DNA, according
to the affidavit.  “No parent can imagine or prepare for losing their
daughter to violence or to having their son commit such a
horrible crime,” Clark’s father, Raymond Clark Jr., told
Fasano.  Le, a Vietnamese-American studying for a doctorate, was
from Placerville,  California , according to a September 2009 Yale
University statement. She graduated from the University of
Rochester in New York, where she met her fiancée, Jonathan
Widawsky, the university said.  ‘Tireless Efforts’  “When she was alive, Annie’s tireless efforts included
finding new treatments for chronic diseases, with the hope for a
better human future in medicine,” her father, Hoang Le, said
during the hearing.  Le’s brother, Chris Le, and two uncles also spoke during
the hearing. Joe Tacopina, a lawyer for Le’s mother and Le’s
estate, said after the sentencing that about 15 Le family
members traveled to Connecticut to attend the sentencing.
Widawsky, who was also in the courtroom, didn’t speak.  Tacopina said he’s investigating whether security lapses
contributed to the incident. He declined to say whether he would
file a civil lawsuit.  “While he certainly seemed remorseful, he didn’t provide
any answers” as to why he killed Le, Tacopina said of Clark
after the sentencing.  The case is State v. Clark, CR09-97102-T, Connecticut
Superior Court (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn,  New York , at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  