-- 
Mexico IPOs Flop After One Day: Chart

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-06-03T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/mexico-ipos-flop-after-one-day-chart.html
Mexico ’s initial public offerings are
losing money in their first month of trading, a sign companies
are overestimating their value while Latin American peers surge
after going public.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that Mexican stocks lose 1.8
percent in their first 20 days of trading, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg since April 2010, when Mexico snapped a
22-month drought in new listings. On average, the stocks
declined after the first trading day. IPOs in the rest of Latin
America surged 9.9 percent in their first month.  The slump in Mexico shows investors paid too much for
shares in their debut and that may stanch demand for future
sales, said Martin Gonzalez, an equity analyst at Invex Case de
Bolsa SA in Mexico City. He said companies should leave room for
the stock price to climb after their offerings to win investors’
confidence and ensure there will be more demand for the
securities when they seek to tap markets again.  “They’re looking to go to the market at the highest price
possible,” Gonzalez said in a telephone interview. “They don’t
want to leave anything on the table.”  Mexico will have about eight more IPOs this year after
Grupo Aeromexico SAB and Fibra Uno Administracion SA went
public, Javier Artigas Alarcon, senior vice president for
strategic planning at Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB, the
operator of the country’s stock exchange, said April 18 in an
interview.  The benchmark IPC index of 37 Mexican stocks has retreated
8.1 percent this year, after advancing 20 percent in 2010. The
MSCI  Latin America  Index is down 3.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  