-- 
Mexico ‘Better Prepared’ for Europe Debt Crisis Than Peers, Rodriguez Says

-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 
2011-06-03T15:28:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/mexico-better-prepared-for-europe-debt-crisis-rodriguez-says.html
Mexico  is seeking to protect its
economy from a worsening of the European debt crisis by stepping
up measures to help keep money in the country, said Deputy
Finance Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez .  The nation is boosting foreign reserves, extending local
debt maturities and limiting how much money banks can lend to
their parent companies abroad or at home, Rodriguez said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  Spain ’s two
biggest banks, Banco Santander SA and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) , own two of Mexico’s four largest financial
institutions.  “We are a lot better prepared, especially relative to
other countries, for a situation that could deteriorate
externally,” said Rodriguez, 38. “All this points to a broad
framework of creating additional spaces for a potential adverse
scenario going forward. That’s what we are here for -- to
prepare for negative scenarios.”  Mexican policy makers are bracing for a potential crisis
three years after the global financial crash sparked a 20
percent plunge in the peso, drained more than 15 percent of the
nation’s foreign reserves and sank the economy into its deepest
recession since 1995. The economy rebounded last year to grow
5.4 percent, the fastest pace in a decade, and the government
predicts an expansion of 4 percent to 5 percent this year.  While countries from  China  to  Brazil  raise borrowing costs
to combat inflation, Mexico is the only major Latin American
country that hasn’t raised rates this year. Mexican annual
inflation was 3.3 percent in mid-May, near a five-year low of
3.04 percent reached in March.  Mexican Inflation  “The context around inflation for Mexico is very, very
good from any angle you want to look at it,” Rodriguez said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points to
141 at 10:55 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. The yield on Mexico’s benchmark 10 percent peso bond due
2024 has fallen 11 basis points this year, or 0.11 percentage
point, to 7.06 percent, according to  Banco Santander SA. (SAN)   The peso weakened 0.5 percent to 11.6889 per dollar today.
The currency has gained 5.6 percent in 2011, the second-most
among Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg, trailing
 Colombia ’s peso.  Mexico reduced how much domestic banks can lend to parent
companies to 25 percent of their capital from 50 percent and is
extending debt maturities in local markets to an average of
about 7.9 years by year end, Rodriguez said.  The country is also boosting foreign reserve accumulations
to prepare for economic deteriorations in  Europe  or elsewhere
that may happen in the short term, Rodriguez said.  Reserves rose to a record $127.9 billion in the week ending
May 27, Mexico’s central bank said May 31 in an e-mailed
statement. They fell to below $73 billion in August 2009 from
over $86 billion in July 2008, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  