-- 
Facebook, Goldman, Credit Suisse, Madoff in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-03T12:35:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/facebook-abbott-laboratories-goldman-sachs-google-madoff-in-court-news.html
Facebook Inc. and its co-founder  Mark
Zuckerberg  asked a court to order  Paul Ceglia , the  New York  man
who claims half of Zuckerberg’s holdings, to turn over the
original contract and e-mails on which he bases his suit, saying
the steps are needed to short-circuit a fraud on the court.  Facebook yesterday asked a federal judge in Buffalo for an
order requiring Ceglia, 37, to provide expedited fact-finding,
or discovery, in the case. The company said forensic examination
of the documents will support its claim that the contract is
“an amateurish forgery” and the e-mails are fabricated.  “This discovery will bring this case to an immediate end
by establishing that the purported contract and e-mails are
forgeries,” Facebook and Zuckerberg said yesterday in the court
filing. “The contract is a cut-and-paste job, the e-mails are
complete fabrications and this entire lawsuit is a fraud.”  Facebook asked for an order forcing Ceglia to immediately
produce the original April 2003 signed contract and all e-mails
referred to in his complaint. The company also asked the court
to seize Ceglia’s computers and otherwise to delay the exchange
of evidence in the case until the documents are turned over and
inspected.  “Mr. Ceglia welcomes the opportunity to expedite discovery
in this case and disagrees with the opinions within the filing,
which have been made by those who have not examined the actual
contract at issue in this case or any of the other relevant
evidence,” Ceglia’s lawyers said in a statement yesterday.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  For more, click here.  Tribune Retirees, Deutsche Bank Sue Shareholders Over Buyout  Former shareholders of Tribune Co. were sued by a  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  unit and retirees over claims that the media company’s
2007 leveraged buyout was a fraud that pushed it into
bankruptcy.  The unit of Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, in its role as
trustee for senior noteholders, sued dozens of shareholders,
brokers and other defendants yesterday in federal courts in
Philadelphia and Boston. The creditors are owed about $2.5
billion, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas said.  “The LBO lined the pockets of Tribune’s former
shareholders with $8.5 billion of cash at the expense of
Tribune’s creditors, and precipitated Tribune’s careen into
bankruptcy,” the Deutsche Bank unit said in the complaints. It
asks to recover money paid to shareholders in the buyout that
creditors labeled “fraudulent transfers.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Scottrade Inc. were among defendants named in the retirees’
complaint, which seeks $109 million. Yesterday’s lawsuits were
the first of a group of cases authorized in March by Tribune’s
bankruptcy judge. The targeted firms sold Tribune shares for
themselves or on clients’ behalf as part of the buyout.  “Tribune, pressured by its majority shareholders and lured
by a scheme orchestrated by Sam Zell, abandoned its duties and
obligations to its retirees, employees and creditors,”
according to the retirees’ complaint filed in New York state
court in Manhattan.  Zell, who has been named in similar lawsuits, has
repeatedly denied that creditors have any legal basis for suing
him. Tribune, which owes about $13 billion to creditors, is
valued at about $6.75 billion, according to court records filed
by the company.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, and David Wells, a spokesman for New
York-based Goldman Sachs, declined to comment on the retirees’
lawsuit. Carrie Hibbs, a spokeswoman for St. Louis-based
Scottrade, said she couldn’t comment.  The Philadelphia cases are Deutsche Bank Trust Company
Americas v. Commonwealth of PA-PSERS, 11-03570, and Deutsche
Bank Trust Company Americas v. Ametek Inc. Employees Master
Retirement Trust, 11-03569, both U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  The Boston case is Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas v.
Anne G. Taylor, 11-10982, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston). The retirees’ case is Niese v.
AllianceBernstein LP, 651516/2011,  Supreme Court  of the State of
New York, New York County (Manhattan). The bankruptcy case is In
re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Abbott in Settlement Talks on Depakote Marketing, U.S. Says  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and the U.S. are “engaged in active
settlement discussions” of the government’s lawsuit alleging
the company improperly marketed its drug  Depakote , Justice
Department lawyers said in court papers.  The U.S. asked the judge overseeing the suit to halt
proceedings until July 8, postponing a May 31 scheduled filing
of an amended complaint by the government and allowing
settlement discussions to continue. The U.S. also asked the
court to consolidate four related false-claims cases.  “The short extension would allow the parties to determine
if a negotiated resolution is possible, which could reduce the
demand on judicial resources,” Timothy Heaphey and Daniel
Bubar, Justice Department lawyers, wrote in a May 20 filing in
federal court in Abingdon, Virginia. “Consolidating the actions
would avoid having nearly identical filings made in four
different actions.”  Whistleblowers claim in the suits that Abbott Park,
Illinois-based Abbott marketed Depakote, an  epilepsy drug , for
unapproved uses including agitation and aggression in patients
with dementia, autism, sexual compulsion and other disorders.
The government joined the False Claims Act suits in February,
according to court dockets. More than 25 states also sued Abbott
over the marketing of Depakote.  “We continue to cooperate with the investigation,”  Scott
Stoffel , a spokesman for Abbott, said yesterday in a phone
interview.  Depakote is approved to prevent migraines, treat acute
manic episodes in bipolar patients and treat seizure disorders
in adults and children, he said in an e-mail.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Spetter v. Abbott Laboratories,
1:10-cv-00006, U.S. District Court, Western District of Virginia
(Abingdon).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Legal Reviews  Goldman Sachs Said to Get Subpoena From New York Prosecutor  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, received a subpoena from the Manhattan District
Attorney’s office seeking information on the firm’s activities
leading into the credit crisis, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  “We don’t comment on specific regulatory or legal issues,
but subpoenas are a normal part of the information request
process and, of course, when we receive them we cooperate
fully,” said David Wells, a company spokesman.  The request relates to the U.S. Senate’s Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations report on Wall Street’s role in
the housing market collapse, which accused New York-based
Goldman Sachs of misleading buyers of mortgage-linked
investments, the people said, speaking on condition of anonymity
because the inquiry isn’t public. The Senate report was referred
to the U.S. Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange
Commission, which are also investigating.  Erin Duggan, chief spokeswoman for Manhattan District
Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr., declined to comment.  A subpoena is a request for information and doesn’t mean
the company is a target of a criminal investigation. Analysts
including Sanford C. Bernstein’s Brad Hintz have said they don’t
expect the firm to be criminally prosecuted.  For more, click here.  Google Antitrust Probe Could Mean Years of Self-Defense  Google Inc. (GOOG)  may be forced to spend years defending itself
in a U.S. Federal Trade Commission investigation that could be
the government’s biggest antitrust probe since the  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  case, Bloomberg News’s Jeff Bliss and Sara Forden report.  Even if Google ultimately prevails, the probe might create
uncertainty around the company’s business, slowing its momentum,
lawyers and analysts said. Federal courts ruled that Microsoft
engaged in illegal monopoly practices in a dispute that
stretched over two U.S. presidential administrations.  “Google effectively is already running under the yellow
flag of caution,” Eric Goldman, associate professor and
 director  of the High Tech Law Institute at Santa Clara
University in  California , said in an interview. An FTC probe
“could make it more difficult” for Google to compete, he said.  The agency is likely to examine whether Google is using its
position in Internet search to subdue rivals in adjacent markets
with threats and jacked-up advertising rates, the lawyers said.
The company’s conduct in new sectors, such as mobile devices,
also will probably be a focus, they said.  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Expert Networker Tapped ‘Cooks’ for Inside Tips, U.S. Says  Ex-Primary Global Research LLC consultant Winifred Jiau
gave secret information from insiders at technology companies
she called “cooks” to hedge fund managers for a fee,
prosecutors told a federal jury in New York.  In opening statements yesterday at Jiau’s criminal trial,
Assistant U.S. Attorney David Leibowitz described a
“sophisticated” scheme in which he said insiders at technology
companies were paid by fund managers for illegal tips. He said
her information was precise “to the decimal point.”  Leibowitz said Jiau spoke in code, demanding payments for
the information, which she called “sugar,” and describing her
sources as “cooks” and referring to tips as “recipes.”  “At the heart of that scheme, playing a critical role, was
the defendant,” Leibowitz told jurors. “The defendant was the
insider who was worth every penny they paid her, and she
received over $200,000 they paid her for that information.”  Jiau, 43, of Fremont, California, is charged with
securities fraud as well as conspiracy to commit wire and
securities fraud for allegedly passing inside tips about  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)   The charges are connected to the arrests of eight employees
or consultants at Primary Global Research, a Mountain View,
California-based firm that links investors with industry experts
at public companies. She is the first expert networker to go on
trial for insider-trading charges and, if convicted, may face as
long as 25 years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Marijuana for Migraines Tests Sprint Policy on Workplace Drugs  The 21-year-old woman suffered from migraine headaches. Her
health-care provider told her to use marijuana for relief. She
did, and was fired from her telemarketing job after failing a
drug test required by  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   She sued  TeleTech Holdings Inc. (TTEC) , which ran a sales office
in Bremerton,  Washington , under contract with Sprint, for
dismissing her in 2006. The state’s medical-marijuana law lets
her smoke pot for medical purposes, she says.  The outcome of the case, now before the state’s Supreme
Court, may guide U.S. employers caught between their efforts to
maintain a drug-free workplace and laws in 16 states and the
District of Columbia that permit the use of marijuana for
medical purposes, Bloomberg Government’s Stephanie Armour
reports.  “Employers are in a tizzy,” Danielle Urban, a lawyer at
 Fisher & Phillips LLP  in Denver who represents companies, said
in an interview. “What if an employee comes in impaired? No one
wants to be sued. It could be very costly.”  Federal law further complicates employer decisions. It
defines marijuana as a  controlled substance  similar to cocaine
and heroin, with no accepted medical use and penalties for sale
and possession.  Companies are fighting, and so far winning, when lawsuits
are filed by applicants or employees who are rejected after
failing company drug tests. The screening is part of the hiring
process for all job candidates at 55 percent of U.S. companies,
according to a 2010 survey by the Alexandria, Virginia-based
 Society for Human Resource Management .  The case is Roe v. TeleTech Customer Care, 81283-7, Supreme
Court for the State of Washington (Olympia).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Credit Suisse Loses Appeal of STMicroelectronics Case  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  lost its appeal of a U.S. judge’s
order to pay  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,  Europe ’s largest chipmaker,
about $400 million over unauthorized investments in auction-rate
securities.  The federal appeals court in Manhattan yesterday upheld
most of a March 2010 ruling by U.S. District Judge  Deborah
Batts , who affirmed a 2009 arbitration award against Zurich-
based Credit Suisse by the  Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority .  The court said Batts should have lowered the amount owed by
Credit Suisse because, before her decision, Geneva-based
STMicroelectronics sold securities with a face value of $153.5
million to Deutsche Bank AG.  “The district court’s judgment should have credited Credit
Suisse for approximately $75 million that ST received in
exchange for selling some of the failed auction-rate securities
at issue in this case, and should have reduced Credit Suisse’s
liability of interest accordingly,” the appeals panel wrote.  David Walker, a spokesman for Credit Suisse, said the
ruling will have an “immaterial impact” on the amount of money
the bank sets aside for anticipated losses.  The auction-rate securities market, once valued at $330
billion, collapsed in February 2008 when dealers stopped
participating in the auctions. Interest on the investments,
typically municipal and student-loan-backed bonds and preferred
shares, reset every seven to 35 days at bidding managed by the
dealers.  STMicroelectronics accused Credit Suisse of investing in
risky securities after claiming it would invest only in student
loans backed by the U.S. government.  The case is STMicroelectronics NV v. Credit Suisse
Securities (USA) LLC, 10-3847, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit (Manhattan), and 09-cv-01388, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Madoff Employee Eric Lipkin to Plead Guilty, U.S. Says  Former Bernard Madoff employee Eric Lipkin will plead
guilty to federal criminal charges including falsifying books
and records of a broker-dealer and bank fraud.  Lipkin will plead guilty to six separate crimes, Assistant
Manhattan U.S. Attorneys Lisa Baroni and Julian Moore said in a
letter to U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain, who is
presiding over the case. Lipkin is set to plead on June 6,
Baroni said.  In addition to two counts of falsifying records and one
count of bank fraud, Lipkin will also plead guilty to two counts
of conspiracy and one count of making a false statement. He
faces as long as 70 years in prison.  “The parties anticipate that, at the conference, Eric
Lipkin, a former employee in the investment advisory business of
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, will plead guilty
to the information pursuant” to an agreement with the
government, prosecutors said in the June 1 letter that was made
public yesterday.  James Filan, a lawyer for Lipkin, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Lipkin, 10-CR-228, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Xinhua Finance CEO Fredy Bush Pleads Not Guilty to Fraud  The former chief executive officer of  Xinhua Finance Ltd. (9399) ,
accused of taking part in a $50 million insider-trading scheme,
said she isn’t guilty of defrauding investors and lying to
regulators.  Loretta Fredy Bush, who headed Xinhua Finance for almost a
decade, pleaded not guilty yesterday in federal court in
Washington to charges of conspiracy, mail fraud and making false
statements. Bush entered her plea by telephone from her
residence in Hawaii because of illness, her lawyer said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Seth B. Waxman said Bush must
present herself to the Federal Bureau of Investigation in
Honolulu for booking. U.S. District Judge Royce Lamberth said
Bush will remain free pending trial.  Lamberth has ordered that details of Bush’s illness remain
private.  Two former Xinhua Finance board members indicted with Bush,
Shelly Singhal and Dennis Pelino, pleaded not guilty last month.  Xinhua Finance, the first Chinese company listed on the
Tokyo stock exchange, provides information products focused on
Chinese and international financial markets.  The three are accused of using entities to disguise the
sale of shares in Shanghai-based Xinhua Finance from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and investors and engage in
insider trading, according to an indictment. They are also
accused of manipulating the company’s balance sheet to avoid
impairment charges.  The case is U.S. v. Singhal, 11-cr-00142, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  White House Counsel Bob Bauer Leaving, Administration Says  White House Counsel Bob Bauer is leaving his job to return
to private practice and will be replaced by his principal
deputy, Kathryn Ruemmler, the administration announced.  Bauer, 59, will return to the law firm  Perkins Coie LLP  and
serve as general counsel for President Barack Obama’s re-
election campaign as well as Obama’s personal lawyer, according
to a White House statement. Bauer will also serve as the general
counsel to the Democratic National Committee.  Ruemmler, 40, joined the administration at the start of
Obama’s term and has been a deputy in the counsel’s office since
January 2010. Before joining the administration she was a
litigation partner in the Washington office of  Latham & Watkins
LLP  from 2007 to 2009.  Ruemmler served as a federal prosecutor for six years and
was part of the prosecution team that led to the convictions of
former Enron Corp. executives, receiving an award from the
attorney general’s office for her work. She also worked in the
counsel’s office during the end of President Bill Clinton’s
administration.  German Attorneys Call for 19 Percent Increase in Fees  German lawyers deserve a 19 percent increase in the
statutory fees they can charge in cases where they can’t
negotiate an hourly rate, the head of the country’s attorney
association said.  The fees haven’t been altered since 1994, Wolfgang Ewer,
the president of the German Attorneys Association, said at the
group’s annual meeting in Strasbourg,  France , yesterday. If the
increase were implemented by 2013, lawyers would get an average
annual raise of 2.1 percent, he said.  “For years, the bar had to bear a pay freeze, while costs
for running a law firm and employees’ salaries have been rising
steadily,” Ewer said. “Professional legal service needs fair
pay.”  In  Germany , attorneys earn a fee based on the value of a
lawsuit or the case at issue, even if they lose. The losing
party in a court case has to pay both sides’ legal bills. If
their case shows some prospect of success, those unable to pay
can get state support to cover the costs of hiring a lawyer.
Because the legal aid is taxpayer-funded, any increase in
lawyers’ fees also raises public spending.  The statutory fees don’t typically apply to attorneys
representing large companies who are generally paid by the hour.  Justice Minister Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger said in
her speech at the meeting yesterday that she will work to change
the payment structure as part of a reform of court and other
fees.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  