-- 
Fed’s Rosengren Says Money Market Funds May Be Vulnerable to Europe Crisis

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-03T21:39:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/fed-s-rosengren-says-money-funds-may-be-vulnerable-to-europe.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said U.S. money-market mutual funds may
be vulnerable to  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Money-market funds “have sizeable exposures to European
banks, by virtue of holding the banks’ short-term debt,”
Rosengren said today in a speech at  Stanford University  in
Stanford,  California . Some funds “are potentially sensitive to
a disruption in the European banking system, should one arise
from the fiscal and sovereign-debt problems we are seeing.”  Concerns that money funds could hurt stability haven’t been
adequately addressed by Congress or regulators to prevent a
recurrence of the outflows after the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, Rosengren said. The Dodd-Frank
Act passed last year mandated the Fed to monitor emerging risks
to financial stability in the wake of the U.S. recession that
ended two years ago.  “The set of issues surrounding” money funds “is in sum a
vulnerability that needs to be addressed,” Rosengren, 54, said.  Money-market mutual fund assets totaled $2.73 trillion as
of this week, according to the Washington-based  Investment
Company Institute .  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
have agreed to pay the next installment to  Greece  under last
year’s 110 billion-euro ($161 billion) bailout, and will focus
on wrapping up a new bailout package to prevent the euro area’s
first sovereign default. The EU and IMF have also arranged
rescue packages for Ireland and Portugal to stop the spread of
the crisis.  Address Vulnerability  One solution to address the vulnerability of money market
funds would be to “think about extending insurance” to them,
Rosengren said in response to a question after the speech.
However, there isn’t much political will to do something like
that and other solutions are more viable, he said, such as
forcing them to hold capital cushions or allowing the net asset
value of the funds to float.  Speaking about the  U.S. economy , Rosengren said “it’s been
a very slow and halting recovery that we’ve experienced to
date,” similar to the pace after previous financial crises.  Regulators are seeking to determine what companies could
cause problems to the overall financial system, and which types
of asset price movements could be threats. Federal Reserve Vice
Chairman Janet Yellen said on June 2 that growth in syndicated
loans needs to be monitored, while Kansas City Fed President
 Thomas Hoenig  has said he’s watching rising farmland prices.  Threaten Stability  Rosengren, a former bank regulator before becoming
president of the Boston Fed in 2007, said rising asset prices
may threaten stability only if they impair credit. For example,
recent “dramatic” rises and declines in the price of silver
indicate the volatility of commodities prices without requiring
any policy response, he said.  The Boston Fed chief said he agreed with the view of
economists  Carmen Reinhart  and Kenneth Rogoff, co-authors of the
2009 book “This Time Is Different,” that recoveries following
recessions caused by financial crises tend to be slower than
normal.  One reason is that banks that experienced large losses may
choose to shrink their balance sheets to improve their capital
ratios rather than issuing new shares and diluting current
shareholders, Rosengren said. That can reduce their willingness
to lend and, if widespread, curb overall credit growth, he said.  Lenders may need to be required to have capital buffers
which would not be rebuilt by shrinking loans, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews at   smatthews@bloomberg.net   Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  