-- 
Federer’s Serve Ends Djokovic’s Perfect Season in French Open Semifinals

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-03T23:58:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/federer-s-serve-ends-djokovic-s-perfect-season-in-french-open-semifinals.html
Roger Federer  kept on serving aces
past Novak Djokovic in the semifinals at the  French Open , each
one blowing a bigger hole in the Serb’s perfect season and
eroding his chances of claiming the top spot in tennis.  The third-seeded Swiss moved to his fourth French Open
final by beating No. 2 Djokovic, 7-6 (7-5), 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (7-5)
in a match that ended at 9:37 p.m. in fading light at  Roland
Garros  in Paris.  “He showed mental toughness in the important moments,”
Djokovic told a news conference after the match. “He was
serving really well in the right moments.”  Federer’s 18th ace, on his third match point, ended
Djokovic’s run of 41 straight victories since the start of this
season. The 24-year-old Serb was one win away from tying the
record for the best start to a season set in 1984 by  John McEnroe , his occasional practice partner this week.  A win in the semifinals would have guaranteed Djokovic the
No. 1 spot in the rankings of the ATP World Tour after Roland
Garros. Djokovic still can take the top spot away from  Rafael Nadal  if the Spaniard loses tomorrow’s final to Federer.  “It was the best five months of my life, my tennis
career,” said Djokovic, who had won 43 consecutive matches and
seven tournaments since losing to Federer in London in November.
“I cannot complain. It was definitely an incredible period. It
had to end somewhere. I knew it was coming.”  Federer has lost three French Open finals to five-time
champion Nadal, winning his lone French Open trophy in 2009
against  Robin Soderling  of  Sweden . Top-ranked Nadal celebrated
his 25th birthday yesterday by beating No. 4 seed  Andy Murray  of
Britain in straight sets in the other semifinal.  Women’s Final  The women’s final will be played today between defending
champion Francesca Schiavone of  Italy  andLi Na, the first
player from  China  in a Roland Garros championship match.  “There was a lot on the line for Novak, a lot of pressure
obviously going in, and I thought he handled it great, really,”
Federer said in a news conference.  “It was a pleasure playing against him,” Federer said.
“I told him at the net as well. I said I think his record
speaks for itself, how great he’s played already this season,
and it’s not even over yet. He can still achieve so much more
this year,” said the Swiss, who produced 48 winners in the
match to 40 for Djokovic, who had seven aces.  In a match full of momentum shifts, Federer saved two set
points at 5-4 down in the first set. The Swiss won the set in a
tiebreaker as Djokovic made unforced errors and hit a forehand
into the net on set point.  ‘Taking Control’  “I had a good first set,” Djokovic said. “It was really
unfortunate to lose that set. After the first set I was slowing
down a little bit, and he was using that. So he was taking
control of the match.”  Djokovic slid and slipped several times on the clay along
the baseline as the Swiss took the second set 6-3 on a backhand
error by Djokovic.  Djokovic broke serve at the start of the third set for a 2-
0 lead and won the third set 6-3 with his third ace. It was
Federer’s first lost set of the tournament.  One of the best frontrunners in tennis, Federer never has
lost a match in a Grand Slam tournament after leading two sets
to love. Djokovic has come back from two sets to love down only
once in his career, at Wimbledon in 2005.  With light starting to fade as the clock struck 9 p.m. and
with the match entering its fourth hour, Djokovic broke
Federer’s serve to take a 5-4 lead in the fourth set -- only to
have Federer break right back. The Swiss then saved two break
points in the next game.  ‘A Big Match’  In the tiebreaker, the 29-year-old Federer screamed as he
won the match and captured his first spot in a major final since
he won a men’s record-extending 16th Grand Slam title at the
2010 Australian Open.  “It was a big match,” said Djokovic, who has pulled out
of next week’s grass-court event at Queens in  London  so he can
get some rest before Wimbledon starts June 20. “But, look, you
know, it’s sport. I will keep on working hard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 