-- 
Fiat to Buy Rest of U.S. Government’s Chrysler Stake, Right to UAW Shares

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-06-03T12:42:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/fiat-to-pay-u-s-treasury-500-million-for-government-s-6-chrysler-stake.html
Fiat SpA (F)  will pay $500 million for
the U.S. government’s remaining 6 percent stake in Chrysler
Group LLC, ending the Treasury’s involvement in the automaker as
Fiat moves to consolidate control.  The  U.S. Treasury  said it will receive an additional $60
million as part of a deal for Fiat to acquire the government’s
rights to buy a union trust fund’s stake in Chrysler. The
Canadian government will get $15 million from that part of the
transaction, the Treasury said yesterday in a statement.  The purchase of the U.S. stake will take Fiat’s holding in
the  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based carmaker to 52 percent. Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  expects to get an additional
5 percent stake in the fourth quarter in return for developing a
fuel-efficient car for Chrysler.  “There’s no question that Marchionne wants control and
doesn’t want the interference of any kind of stake,” said  Paul Newton , an analyst at IHS Automotive in  London . “Chrysler’s
value is likely to increase, so he may as well get on with it.”  Fiat rose as much as 31.5 cents, or 4.4 percent, to 7.42
euros and was up 3.5 percent as of 2:26 p.m. in Milan trading,
valuing the company at 9.07 billion euros ($13.1 billion).  “The reaction in Fiat stock shows that investors believe
an IPO of Chrysler is less likely,” said  Alessandro Frigerio , a
 fund manager  at RMJ Sgr in Milan, which owns shares of Fiat
Industrial SpA and Exor SpA, Fiat’s largest shareholder. “As
Fiat becomes a proxy of Chrysler, the best way to invest is to
buy Fiat shares.”  ‘One Entity’  With the new option to buy all of the Chrysler shares held
by the United Auto Workers’ retiree health-care trust,
Marchionne doesn’t need to hold an initial public offering.  “The real issue for me is not necessarily the IPO,”
Marchionne said in a Bloomberg Television interview ahead of
President Barack Obama’s planned visit to a Chrysler plant in
Toledo,  Ohio . “Ultimately, we need to look at one entity on a
combined basis, and whether it’s an IPO of Chrysler in the U.S.
to get it done or an expansion of Fiat’s shareholding base,
we’re open to all options.”  Marchionne is in talks with the Canadian government to buy
its 1.7 percent stake. That purchase would leave just Fiat and
the union trust, which holds about 41 percent, as Chrysler
shareholders. The value of the trust’s stake, based on the price
of the U.S. stake, is about $3.42 billion.  Easy IPO Option  “The objective here is to find a way to deal with the
other shareholder in Chrysler,” said Marchionne. “We need to
find a way to monetize that interest and the IPO still remains
the easiest way for us to put money in the trust.”  The U.S. government, with this deal and previous loan
repayments, interest and canceled commitments, will have
recovered $11.2 billion of the $12.5 billion it gave Chrysler in
the bailout. The Treasury said it is unlikely to recover the
remaining $1.3 billion.  “As Treasury exits its investment in Chrysler, it’s clear
that President Obama’s decision to stand behind and restructure
this company was the right one,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in a statement.  Fiat boosted its holding in Chrysler to 46 percent last
week after the U.S. carmaker repaid $7.6 billion in U.S. and
Canadian government loans. The Turin, Italy-based company said
it paid $1.3 billion for the additional 16 percent stake. The
purchase of shares and options from the U.S. will close after
regulatory approval, the Italian carmaker said.  Marchionne Moves  The quick purchase of a majority stake in Chrysler reflects
the pace at which Marchionne has taken the U.S. carmaker from
deep losses to a position where it could break even and succeed,
 Maryann Keller , principal of a self-titled consulting firm in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “Sergio accomplished what many people thought was
impossible,” Keller said. “He got great terms on the deal
because no one believed it would work.”  Fiat said in a filing yesterday that it had enough cash on
hand to buy the U.S.’s stake and that it has rights to raise its
holding beyond 70 percent.  Before yesterday, Chrysler had said Fiat held options that
included acquiring 40 percent of the original stake held by the
UAW trust that pays for retirees’ health care. The option is
exercisable from July 1, 2012, to Dec. 31, 2016, and in amounts
of as much as 8 percent in any six-month period, according to
the filing.  Model Milestones  Fiat gained a 20 percent Chrysler holding as part of the
U.S. automaker’s government-backed restructuring in 2009. In
exchange for sharing management and technology, as well as
reaching operational milestones, Fiat receives as much as 35
percent of Chrysler without paying any cash. Marchionne has said
he expects the final milestone, worth a 5 percent stake, to be
reached by year’s end.  Marchionne is pushing Chrysler to raise its global sales
this year by 32 percent to 2 million and turn an annual profit
of $200 million to $500 million.  Chrysler had first-quarter net income of $116 million, its
first profit since bankruptcy. Global sales rose 18 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  