-- 
Fiserve, EPO, IHOP, One Less, Netflix: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-03T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/fiserv-epo-ihop-one-less-nemesis-netflix-intellectual-property.html
Fiserv Inc. (FISV) , the manager of check-
processing and cash machines, will have to defend itself again
in a patent-infringement lawsuit brought by  Advanced Software
Design Corp.  after an appeals court revived the case.  A trial judge erred in her reasoning when she said
Brookfield, Wisconsin-based Fiserv wasn’t infringing an Advanced
Software patent, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit in  Washington  said in an opinion on its website
yesterday. The case was remanded to the lower court for review.  Disputed patent 6,792,110 covers a way to encrypt and
decrypt checks to prevent fraud. Closely held Advanced Software,
based in Richmond Hill, Ontario, filed the lawsuit after
licensing negotiations failed, according to court papers. The
companies offer competing products that encrypt selected
information on a check that can be matched with visible data.  The three-judge panel of the court also said the trial
judge erred in her interpretation of a key term describing the
invention. The panel dismissed Fiserv’s appeal of a ruling that
rejected challenges to the validity of the patent, saying that
issue hadn’t been fully resolved by the lower court and so
wasn’t subject to appellate review.  The case is Advanced Software Design Corp. v. Fiserv Inc.,
2009-1585 and 2010-1011, both U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Advanced
Software Design Corp. v. Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis ,
07cv185, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Missouri  (St.
Louis).  EPO Reports 11 Percent Increase in 2010 Patent Filings  Patent filings at the  European Patent Office  in 2010
increased 11 percent from the previous year, according to an EPO
 statement .  In 2010, the EPO received 235,000 European patent filings,
the highest number in the office’s 24-year history. More than
58,000 patents were granted that year.  Residents of the U.S. filed 60,588 applications with the
EPO in 2010; followed by  Japan , with 41,917;  Germany , with
33,129;  China , with 12,698; and  France , with 11,692, according
to the EPO.  The technical field with the greatest number of
applications filed in 2010 was medical technology, for which
10,479 applications were received. Other top fields were
computer technology, with 8,257 applications; electrical
machinery, with 8,241; digital communications, with 7,951; and
biotechnology, with 7,435 applications.  Siemens AG (SIE)  filed the most applications, followed by Royal
Dutch Philips NV,  BASF SE (BASFY) , Samsung Electronics Co. and  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM)   For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  IHOP Files Second Trademark Infringement Suit Against Church  DineEquity Inc. (DIN) ’s International House of Pancakes unit
filed a second trademark-infringement lawsuit against a
Missouri-based evangelical group.  The first suit, filed in September 2009 in federal court in
Los Angeles, stated the pancake chain’s objection to the
International House of Prayer’s use of IHOP-KC to refer to
itself.  In December, the pancake chain filed papers with the court
asking that the case be dropped, saying the parties were
negotiating. The church made no written filings in the first
case, according to the court docket.  The new case was filed in federal court in  Kansas City ,
Missouri, on May 27. The allegations made by the pancake chain
are similar to those in the earlier case, which isn’t mentioned
in the new complaint.  The pancake chain asked the court to bar the church group
from using the IHOP acronym. Other than asking for awards of
attorney fees and litigation costs, the pancake chain doesn’t
request money damages.  In the new case, the pancake chain is represented by  Mark
D. Hinderks ,  Mark M. Iba  and  Elizabeth A. Tassi  of  Stinson
Morrison Heckler LLP  of Kansas City.  The new case is IHOP LLP v. International House of Prayer,
4:11-cv-00548-JTM, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Missouri (Kansas City). The previous case is IHOP IP LLC v.
International House of Prayer, 2:10-cv-06622-SJO-SH, U.S.
District Court, Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  Target Enters Mediation in Canadian Naming Rights Dispute  Target Corp. (TGT)  and a Canadian clothing retailer entered
formal mediation in a dispute over whether the second-largest
U.S. discount chain can use its name north of the border.  Target, the 1,750-store company, and Fairweather Ltd. of
Toronto are suing each other, alleging trademark infringement
and seeking injunctions to prevent the other from using the
Target name in  Canada .  Target, based in Minneapolis, said in January it planned to
start opening about 150 Canadian outlets in 2013 after agreeing
to pay C$1.83 billion ($1.87 billion) for 220 store leases of
discount chain Zellers from Hudson’s Bay Co.  The mediation, which began yesterday in Toronto under
Federal Court of Canada Justice Roger Hughes, is closed to
outsiders and the participants were prevented from talking to
reporters. If a settlement isn’t reached, the Federal Court
trial isn’t scheduled to begin until November 2012.  Closely held Fairweather, controlled by Isaac Benitah,
argues that it bought the Canadian rights to the Target name in
2001 from defunct retail group Dylex Ltd. Fairweather said it
has operated a Target Apparel store in Toronto since 2005 and
has additional locations under the banner in place or planned in
other cities.  Student Anti-Bullying Campaign Runs Afoul of T-Shirt Company  One Less Nemesis LLC , a Woodinville, Washington-based t-
shirt company, objected to an anti-bullying campaign started by
a group of Maryland high school students, the Gaithersburg,
Maryland Gazette  reported .  The t-shirt company claims trademark rights to “One less”
in opposing the “One Less Bully, One More Friend” campaign
begun by students from Oxon Hill High School, according to the
Gazette.  The students have sold about $500 worth of t-shirts they
created to promote the campaign, according to the Gazette.  The school system’s attorney recommended that the student
group behind the campaign quit using the name, the newspaper
reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  China Spent $22 Million on Government Software, Xinhua Says  Chinese government agencies spent 140.9 million yuan ($22
million) to buy 176,763 legitimate software packages in the
October-May period to ensure they are using authorized and
legitimate programs, Xinhua News Agency said, citing the
National Copyright Administration.  The purchases include 24.9 million yuan for domestically
produced software and 116.03 million yuan for software from
overseas companies, the official news service said.  Illegal Streaming May Be Felony, Benefiting Netflix, Studios  Hollywood studios including Warner Bros. and Sony Pictures
and online movie companies such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  may benefit from
U.S. government efforts to toughen penalties for illegal video
streaming.  Congress should change copyright laws to make illegal
streaming of video over the Internet a felony offense, Maria
Pallante, director of the U.S. Copyright Office, told a House
Judiciary subcommittee June 1. Illegal streaming is currently
treated as a misdemeanor, and prosecutors have little incentive
to file charges in such cases, she said.  Piracy of digital movies, music and software cost
businesses between $30 billion and $75 billion in 2008 in the
Group of 20 leading global economies, according to a February
report commissioned by the International Chamber of Commerce
from Frontier Economics, a London-based consulting firm.  Illegal streaming of movies represents a growing threat to
Netflix, which rents licensed movies and TV programs to
subscribers, David Hyman, the company’s general counsel, said in
a May 30 letter to the subcommittee on intellectual property,
competition and the Internet.  Streaming technology is quickly becoming the most popular
way to transmit stolen content, Michael O’Leary, executive vice
president for government affairs for the Motion Picture
Association of America, said in testimony at the June 1 House
hearing. His group represents leading Hollywood studios
including  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.,  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Sony
Pictures and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures.  The MPAA backs the idea of felony treatment for illegal
streaming, O’Leary said.  A Senate bill introduced on May 12 would make illegal video
streaming a felony offense if the website profits from direct
sales or advertising of the content and the value of the
material exceeds $2,500.  The Senate Judiciary Committee approved a bill May 26
targeting so-called rogue websites, which sell or distribute
illegally copied music, movies and consumer products. The
measure would allow the U.S. attorney general to seek court
orders requiring U.S.-based search engines to stop providing
links to infringing sites, among other things.  Within hours of the Senate committee’s vote, Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, said he would use a procedural move
to block the bill from reaching a vote in the full Senate,
saying the measure takes an “overreaching approach to policing
the Internet.”  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s largest search engine, has said it
has “real concerns” about provisions of the “rogue website”
bill, known as the Protect IP act, including the impact that
blocking websites would have on free expression. Yahoo Inc.,
 EBay Inc. (EBAY) ,  Visa Inc. (V)  and  American Express Co. (AXP)  have also objected
to aspects of the bill.  The Obama administration on March 15 released a set of
recommendations for fighting the illegal sale of pirated
software and online content, including changes in laws to make
illegal streaming of video a felony “in appropriate
circumstances.”  German ISPs Hand Over Subscriber Information, Techeye.net Says  German internet service providers are giving copyright
owners identifying information on more than 300,000 subscribers
per month, the Techeye.net news website  reported .  File-sharers in Germany then receive demand letters from
content owners seeking as much as $1,700 to avoid litigation,
according to Techeye.net.  The enforcement campaign has led to a decline in piracy in
Germany and caused legal downloads in the country to increase by
30 percent, Techeye.net reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  DLA Piper Hires Two Patent Litigators From Pillsbury Winthrop  DLA Piper LLP hired Claudia Wilson Frost and Jeffrey L.
Johnson for its Houston-based intellectual-property practice,
the Chicago-based firm said in a  statement .  Both joined from San Francisco’s Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw
Pittman LLP.  Frost  has litigated cases in Texas state courts,
federal trial and appeal courts, before the International Trade
Commission and the U.S. Supreme Court.  She has an undergraduate degree from the University of
Texas and a law degree from the University of Houston.  Johnson , who does both litigation and IP-related
counseling, has represented clients in the oil and natural-gas
industries, as well as chemical processing, software, polymer
chemistry and mineralogy.  He has an undergraduate degree from East Texas Baptist
University, a doctorate in organic chemistry and mechanical
engineering from Texas A&M University and a law degree from the
University of Houston.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 