-- 
Federer Ends Djokovic’s 41-Match Winning Streak to Reach French Open Final

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-06-03T20:54:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/five-time-champ-rafael-nadal-defeats-murray-in-french-open-semifinals.html
Roger Federer  defeated No. 2-ranked
Novak Djokovic in four sets to advance to the French Open tennis
final against top-ranked  Rafael Nadal .  Federer, the tournament’s third seed, won 7-6 (7-5), 6-3,
3-6, 7-6 (7-5) to end Djokovic’s 41-match winning streak to
start the season. Nadal, going for his record-tying sixth
championship in Paris, beat No. 4  Andy Murray  of Britain 6-4, 7-
5, 6-4 in the day’s first semifinal.  The championship match in two days will be the fourth time
Federer, from  Switzerland , and Nadal, from  Spain , have met for
the title at Roland Garros. Nadal has won the previous three and
holds a 16-8 advantage in career meetings.  “I said it earlier, I wasn’t here to spoil the party,”
Federer said at a news conference. “I mean, just trying to put
in a good match and trying to get to the French Open finals,
which I’m now obviously happy I’m able to. But almost feels
somewhat like I’ve won the tournament, which is not the case,
you know. Silverware is still out there to be won, and I’m
looking forward to the match with Rafa, which I guess is my true
rival for the last  all those years, you know, since he became
world No. 1.”  Federer and Djokovic battled for 3 hours, 39 minutes as
darkness fell, ending after 9:30 p.m. local time. Federer, who’s
won a record 16 Grand Slam titles, took a 6-3 lead in the final
tiebreaker and clinched the victory with his 18th ace.  “He has played an incredible match today,” Djokovic said
in a news conference. “All credit to him. He went for the shots
when he needed to.”  Streak Stopped  Djokovic’s streak to start the season fell one short of
 John McEnroe ’s record set in 1984. The loss also denied the
Serb, who won the Australian Open in January, a chance to
replace Nadal as the No. 1 player in the ATP World Tour
rankings.  “It was a pleasure playing against him today, I thought,”
Federer said. “I told him at the net as well. I said I think
his record speaks for itself, how great he’s played already this
season, and it’s not even over yet. He can still achieve so much
more this year.”  Nadal’s win, which came on his 25th birthday, puts the
Spaniard in position to match Bjorn Borg’s record of six titles
at Roland Garros.  “A lot of respect for the great Bjorn, but I am focused on
trying to play well,” Nadal said in a news conference. “For
me, it’s much more important to win  Roland Garros  then equal
Bjorn.”  Fast Start  After winning the first-set tiebreaker, Federer dominated
the second, with five aces and 15 winners, losing only eight
points on his serve. Djokovic broke in the second game of the
third set and stayed on serve the rest of the way to pull within
2-1.  Federer broke for a 5-4 lead in the final set, only to lose
his serve in the next game. Federer went up 4-3 in the
tiebreaker on Djokovic’s serve and won it five points later with
an ace down the middle.  “I was very confident, you know, especially once I was up
7-6, 4-1,” Federer said. “I kind of felt like this match is
not going to slip out my hands, even though I probably missed
another 10 or 15 break points at the end of the second set. I
just felt you don’t give me such a lead and then think you can
crawl back into the match. I knew I was probably going to close
this out. That was just a feeling I had.”  Nadal, who ran his career record at Roland Garros to 44-1,
dropped to his knees with arms raised in celebration after the
3-hour, 18-minute match with Murray.  ‘Tough Match’  “The match was tough,” Nadal, who must win the final to
stay atop the rankings, told reporters. “I had the upper hand
throughout and whenever there was an obstacle, I managed to
overcome this hurdle.”  Nadal took a 5-1 lead in the first set, before Murray
fought back to 5-4 and had two break points for 5-5. Nadal won
on his third set point as Murray hit a forehand into the net.  Four straight service breaks left the second set tied 4-4.
Nadal came from 40-15 down to break again for 6-5 and closed out
the set by holding serve at love.  Nadal broke Murray to open the third set, then saved two
break points for a 4-2 lead. Nadal fought off three more break
points for 5-3 and served out the match at love two games later.  Murray, who lost to Djokovic in the Australian Open final
in January, made 40 unforced errors and converted just three of
18 break points.  “I think it was a close match,” Murray, whose previous
best finish was the quarterfinals in 2009, told reporters. “He
just played better than me. That was the difference.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 