-- 
Ex-Egypt Bank Chief Pleads Guilty in Pierre Sex Abuse Case, Avoids Jail

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-06-25T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/former-bank-of-alexandria-chairman-omar-pays-bail-after-arrest-in-new-york.html
The former chairman of  Egypt ’s Bank
of Alexandria pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge that he
sexually abused a maid at a Manhattan hotel in exchange for a
sentence of five days of community service at a soup kitchen.  Mahmoud Abdel Salam Omar, charged with sexually assaulting
an employee of the  Pierre Hotel , pleaded guilty yesterday in New
York state court to sexual abuse in the third degree, a class b
misdemeanor. Earlier yesterday, the victim sued him for $5
million in Manhattan federal court.  The victim alleged Omar groped her in his room on May 29
after asking her to bring him tissues. Police originally charged
Omar with sexual abuse in the first degree, sexual abuse in the
third degree and forcible touching. He faced as long as seven
years in prison if convicted of the most serious charge.  Omar, head of El-Mex Salines, was free on bail after having
been confined at Rikers Island,  New York City ’s main jail
complex.  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former International
Monetary Fund chief, was held there after being charged with the
sexual assault and attempted rape of a maid at the Sofitel,
another Manhattan hotel.  In Omar’s case, police were called to the Pierre after the
maid told security that he groped her when she went to his room.
Omar “wrapped his arms tightly around the informant’s body and
while holding the informant, kissed the informant’s neck and
lips,” Detective Efrain Curet said in a criminal complaint.  Omar grabbed the maid a second time and groped her,
according to the complaint.  Arrested May 30  Omar was arrested May 30. The Pierre, where room rates
start at $776 a night according to its  website , is part of the
Taj Group of Hotels. The hotel had said it is cooperating with
police. It suspended a supervisor who stopped the maid from
immediately filing a complaint, the New York Daily News
reported.  Yesterday, the maid sued Omar for assault and battery,
false imprisonment and intentional infliction of emotional
distress.  In the hearing in criminal court, Assistant District
Attorney Nicole Blumberg told Judge Rita Mella that prosecutors
agreed to the plea deal after carefully reviewing the evidence,
including interviews with more than 20 witnesses, a person who
witnessed the exchange said. Blumberg said the victim was told
of the plea deal and is satisfied with it, the person said.  Omar has performed five days of community service at a soup
kitchen, his attorney Lori Cohen said after the hearing. He
pleaded guilty because he wants to get back to his wife who just
had surgery, she said.  Strauss-Kahn was indicted on charges of first-degree
criminal sex act, attempted rape and sexual abuse in the first
degree. The most serious crimes he is charged with carry a
prison term of as long as 25 years. He denies the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York State  Supreme Court 
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  