-- 
Formula One Is Criticized After Rescheduling Grand Prix in Bahrain

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-06-03T14:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/formula-one-criticized-for-rescheduling-bahrain-race-after-demonstrations.html
Formula One’s ruling body was
criticized by human-rights groups after rescheduling a race in
Bahrain amid anti-government protests.  The Paris-based International Automobile Federation, known
as  FIA , agreed to stage the race following a fact-finding
mission, spokesman Norman Howell said in an e-mail.  The race will be staged on Oct. 30, replacing a scheduled
stop in  India , FIA said in a statement. The Indian race will be
delayed until an as-yet unspecified date and be the final round
of this year’s championship.  “This decision reflects the spirit of reconciliation in
Bahrain, which is evident from the strong support the race
receives from the government and all major parties in Bahrain,
including the largest opposition group,” the racing body said.  It said the move was a “means of helping to unite
people.”  The race had been slated to open the season on March 13.
Bahraini Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad  Al Khalifa  suspended it
on Feb. 21, three days after five people were killed as police
broke up demonstrations by activists seeking democratic changes.
At least 30 people have died since the protests began, the
 Associated Press  reported.  “It seems like a highly questionable decision by Formula
One,”  Joe Stork , the deputy director of the region for New
York-based  Human Rights Watch , said in a telephone interview.  Teams and drivers now have to make a decision “influenced
by financial reasons and personal feelings,” Stork said.  Lost Money  Canceling the event would have cost Formula One, owned by
London-based buyout firm CVC Capital Partners Ltd., the $40
million fee it charges Bahraini authorities, the U.K.’s Daily
Telegraph reported March 15, citing series Chief Executive
Officer  Bernie Ecclestone .  Human-rights activists in Bahrain said they would use the
publicity of the most-watched motor sport to show their
discontent with the government.  “On the one hand, Formula One isn’t respecting human
rights, but on the other, it’s a good chance for the people to
express how they feel on television worldwide,” Mohamed Al-
Maskati, head of the Bahrain Youth Society for Human Rights,
said from Manama, the capital.  On June 1, Bahrain lifted a state of emergency, warning in
a statement carried by the official Bahrain News Agency against
activities that could “affect security or harm the national
peace and safety.”  Police fired tear gas and rubber bullets as hundreds of
protesters marched towards Pearl Square in Manama today
following the funeral of an elderly woman who died yesterday
from the effects of tear gas, Al-Maskati said.  Bahrain has hosted Formula One since 2004 at a $150 million
racetrack in the desert south of Manama.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  