-- 
Former-SAC Capital Manager Testifies He Committed Crimes at Hedge Fund

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-03T21:45:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/former-sac-capital-manager-testifies-he-committed-crimes-at-hedge-fund.html
Ex-SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio
manager Noah Freeman told a federal jury in New York that he
committed  insider trading  while working at two separate  hedge
funds , including while overseeing a $300 million fund at SAC.  Freeman, 35, who pleaded guilty to  securities fraud  charges
in February and is cooperating with the government, testified
today against Winifred Jiau, 43, the first of the so-called
expert networkers to go on trial as part of a U.S. crackdown on
insider trading of hedge funds. She’s accused of passing illegal
tips to fund managers.  Freeman said he was approached by agents with the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  in late November or early December, who
played a recording of a conversation he had with Jiau and Sam Barai, founder of New York-based Barai Capital Management. He
said he promptly hired a lawyer and started cooperating with the
government.  “I told representatives of  law enforcement  the crimes I
committed and other people had committed,” Freeman said.  “Did you volunteer information about other individuals who
were committing crimes?”  “I did,” Freeman said. “On, at least in passing, more
than a dozen.”  ‘Business Model’  Freeman, who graduated from  Harvard College  in 1999,
testified he committed securities fraud while working at Sonar
Capital Management LLC in  Boston  and later during the almost two
years he spent as a portfolio manager at SAC Capital.  When he pleaded guilty in February, he said his conspiracy
had lasted five years from 2005 through 2010. At the time, he
didn’t identify the two funds where he worked.  Asked about the practice of using expert networkers to get
inside information while at Sonar, Freeman said, “It was a
regularly employed part of our business model.”  Jiau, of Fremont,  California , denies the charges. The
 Mountain View , California-based firm where she worked links
investors with industry experts at public companies. If
convicted, she could face as long as 25 years in prison.  ‘Extremely Helpful’  Since November, the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara has charged 13 people in its probe of expert networkers
and insider trading at hedge funds. Eight people have pleaded
guilty, including Barai, who entered his plea on May 27.  Jiau’s lawyer, Joanna Hendon, said today she will call
Barai as a witness during her case.  Freeman testified for about an hour before court recessed
for the day. His testimony is scheduled to resume June 6. He is
the first of three cooperating witnesses that the government
said would be called to testify.  Freeman said Jiau was his source of inside information on
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.,  Marvell Technology Group
Ltd. (MRVL)  and Nvdia Corp.  He called Primary Global “an expert introduction service”
and said he and others at his funds traded on stock based on the
information Jiau provided. Freeman said he found Jiau’s tips
“extremely helpful.”  Freeman testified that he made a total of $20 million to
$30 million using inside information while at Sonar. He said he
earned $5 million to $10 million on Jiau’s tips on Nvidia and
broke even on the information she provided on Marvell.  ‘Acting Unlawfully’  “We communicated with her so she could give us inside
information,” Freeman said. “I knew I was acting unlawfully,”
Freeman said, telling jurors he could face as long as 25 years
in prison.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital, declined
to comment.  Mark Hyland, a lawyer for Sonar Capital and founder Neil Druker, said in an e-mailed statement that Freeman was fired in
May 2008.  Sonar Capital hasn’t been charged with any wrongdoing by
prosecutors or the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “In pleading guilty to two felony counts it is now
apparent that, while employed by Sonar he violated Sonar’s
strict and robust policies against trading on the basis of
inside information,” Hyland said in the statement. “Any
statement that Sonar Capital used insider trading as a business
model is categorically false.”  Freeman’s lawyer, Benjamin Rosenberg of Dechert LLP, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Another former SAC fund manager, Donald Longueuil, pleaded
guilty April 28 to insider trading charges in federal court in
 New York .  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-CR-161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  