-- 
Economist Dennis Gartman Is ‘Nervous,’ Cuts His Gold Investments in Half

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-03T12:08:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/gartman-sells-50-of-gold-holding-after-decline-says-further-drop-likely.html
Dennis Gartman , the economist and
editor of the Gartman Letter who correctly forecast 2008’s
commodities slump, cut his gold position by half today and said
yesterday’s drop makes him “nervous” that it may keep falling.  The metal fell as much 1.3 percent yesterday after earlier
this week trading within 1.8 percent of the all-time high a
month ago. Gartman cut his gold holdings in all currencies. Gold
in euros and British pounds rose to records since last week.  “For the first time in a very, very long while, we are a
good deal more nervous than we have been about the trend,”
Gartman said in his Suffolk, Virginia-based Gartman Letter.
“We fear that yesterday’s sharp break that took gold down to
$1,520 in the veritable twinkling of an eye was the harbinger of
even more severe weakness that might soon develop.”  Gold may fall “swiftly” to about $1,480 an ounce as early
as the next few days, he wrote. Gold for immediate delivery
dropped $6.27, or 0.4 percent, to $1,527.30 an ounce by 1:07
p.m. in London.  Gold has gained 7.4 percent this year and touched a record
$1,577.57 an ounce on May 2 as faster inflation, Europe’s debt
crisis, a weakening dollar and unrest in the  Middle East  and
north  Africa  boosted demand for a protection of wealth. European
Union and International Monetary Fund officials today complete a
review of  Greece ’s plan for 78 billion euros ($113 billion) in
asset sales and austerity measures as they prepare the nation’s
second bailout in little more than a year.  Generational Shift  While gold has gained the past 10 years, the longest
winning streak since at least 1920, central banks are adding to
their  gold reserves  for the first time in a generation. The IMF
sold 403.3 tons of bullion as part of a plan to shore up its
finances and lend at reduced rates to low-income countries.  “There are rumors and there are rumors of rumors about IMF
sales, or sales on the part of legacy central banks in  Europe ,
or sales from the  European Central Bank , the proceeds of which
can be used to prop or bail out Greece and the others,” Gartman
wrote. “Although these are merely rumors, where this is rumored
smoke there can be actual fire.”  Gartman, who last week said gold is the preferred “coin of
the realm” during Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, today said
that he had added “marginally” to his gold position yesterday.
“Such is trading,” he said.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities plunged
as much as 66 percent in the seven months through February 2009
after Gartman in June 2008 said there would be a “tidal wave”
of selling. Gold gained as much as 2.5 percent after the
economist said he was adding to positions on May 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  