-- 
Gates Urges U.S.-China Focus on Common Interests Instead of  Differences

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-06-03T16:42:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/gates-urges-u-s-china-focus-on-common-interests-instead-of-differences.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
told his Chinese counterpart the two countries should seek to
improve military relations that lag behind their economic ties,
working together more on common interests without letting
disputes get in the way.  “In recent months, our two countries have made progress
toward rectifying this imbalance by jointly identifying areas of
cooperation,” Gates told his Chinese Defense Minister Liang Guanglie yesterday at the start of a meeting on the sidelines of
the annual IISS  Asia  Security Summit, the Shangri-La Dialogue in
 Singapore .  “As I leave office at the end of this month, I do so
believing that our military relationship is on a more positive
trajectory,” said Gates, who is on his last official visit to
Asia before retiring. Gates is due to address the forum today.  Gates’s entreaty reflects a U.S. push for constancy in
defense ties with leaders in Beijing that were severed multiple
times in recent years, over issues such as U.S. arms sales to
Taiwan. His positive tone belied tensions over territorial
disputes in the  South China Sea  and California-based  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s discovery of an attempted cyber-attack that the company
said appeared to originate in China.  Balancing Act  U.S. diplomats are working on “balancing” rather than
“containing” China, said Dana Allin, senior fellow for U.S.
foreign policy and transatlantic affairs at the International
Institute for Strategic Studies, based in  London .  “That’s part of the diplomatic game that has to be played
very skillfully,” Allin said.  Both President Barack Obama and China’s President Hu Jintao
have pressed their militaries to strengthen defense relations.  The U.S. is trying to overcome obstacles and opposition to
better ties with China on both sides by zeroing in on topics
where they’re more likely to make progress, U.S. defense
officials said in briefing reporters after the Gates-Liang
meeting. Gates cited areas of “common strategic interests”
such as piracy, North Korea and  disaster relief .  “I also believe that it’s important to maintain a dialogue
on areas where we disagree so we can have greater clarity about
each other’s intentions,” Gates said.  Liang, in his opening remarks to Gates through an
interpreter, said improving military ties was “important” for
the leaders of both countries to address. He stressed that “new
policies” might be required, without elaborating before
reporters were sent out of the room.  High-Level  China  Presence  Liang’s presence at the forum is notable as the first time
China was represented at the same level of defense minister that
other countries generally send to the 35-nation gathering. He’s
due to address the forum tomorrow.  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak cautioned countries at
the forum against trying to make a Cold War-style choice between
China and the U.S. China’s growing military capacity should not
cause “undue alarm,” Najib said yesterday.  “Despite rapid increases in Chinese military expenditure,
the United States will continue to be by far the pre-eminent
military power and by far the biggest spender,” he said.  Najib advised treating China “in a very constructive,
positive way,” saying Chinese leaders would then be more likely
to respond in kind.  U.S.-China Meetings  Gates visited Beijing in January after the Chinese ended a
freeze on military relations that followed a January 2010
announcement of U.S. arms sale to  Taiwan  and after American
overtures to the exiled Tibetan leader, the  Dalai Lama .  That visit was followed last month by talks in  Washington 
led by U.S. Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, and his Chinese counterpart, General Chen Bingde.  Yesterday’s hour-long meeting was “productive,” and
“very cordial,” Pentagon spokesman  Geoff Morrell  told
reporters.  Gates sought to assure Liang that his nominated successor,
Central Intelligence Agency Director Leon Panetta, would
continue efforts to solidify more cooperation and communication,
Morrell said.  Gates and Liang didn’t discuss cyber issues specifically,
U.S. defense officials said. Liang did refer to the importance
of talks in Washington last month that brought civilian and
military officials on both sides together to discuss issues such
as cyberspace, a topic that China had suggested, the officials
said on condition of anonymity.  Tensions Rise  Tensions also have escalated again in the South China Sea
in recent weeks.  China claims most of the South China Sea as its own,
dismissing rival claims from  Vietnam , the Philippines, Brunei,
Taiwan and Malaysia. Gates pointedly cited U.S. interests in the
area at the same forum last year, followed a month later by
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s statement that settling
claims was “a leading diplomatic priority” for the U.S.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  and  Forum Energy
Plc (FEP)  are all planning exploration activities in blocks with
Chinese claims.  The Philippines filed a diplomatic protest after Chinese
vessels were seen in an area claimed by both countries, Defense
Secretary Voltaire Gazmin told a forum in  Manila  earlier this
week. Last week, Vietnam said Chinese ships cut survey cables of
a boat operated by Vietnam Oil & Gas Group, or PetroVietnam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Harrington at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net  