-- 
GE Leads Call for Action on U.S. Supplies of Rare-Earth Minerals

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-06-03T16:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/ge-leads-call-for-action-on-u-s-supplies-of-rare-earth-minerals.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  led companies in
urging Congress to spur U.S. production of rare earths, needed
for wind turbines,  aircraft engines , medical devices and cell
phones, and to reduce dependence on supplies from  China .  Congress is considering two bills that would require the
Interior Department to report on U.S. mineral resources and
production limits. Lawmakers led by Representative Henry Johnson, a Georgia Democrat, also want the U.S. to consider
risks of disruptions in rare-earth supplies from overseas.  “What manufacturers need is a comprehensive action here,
that goes beyond this assessment,” Steven Duclos, GE chief
scientist and manager of materials sustainability, told the
 House Natural Resources Committee . “The faster the better.”  Duclos, testifying for the  National Association of
Manufacturers , said the nation lacks a trained workforce to
process the minerals. GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, is
the world’s biggest maker of  jet engines , power-generation
equipment, locomotives and medical imaging machines.  U.S. lawmakers and manufacturers are seeking development of
domestic rare-earth supplies after China said in July that it
would cut its export quotas by more than 70 percent. China
produced about 97 percent of the world’s supply of rare earths
in 2009, according to the U.S.  Rare earths, a group of 17 minerals sharing similar
properties, became a political and legislative issue after
China’s export reduction. Supplies are “at risk” of being
disrupted, the Energy Department said in a report last year.  Global demand for the minerals will increase at a rate of 8
percent a year as the minerals are used in computers and cars,
the  U.S. Geological Survey  said in comments to the committee.  The U.S. needs to simplify the permit process for mines,
which now takes 7 to 10 years to complete, and develop
processing capabilities, such as separation and metal alloy
manufacturing, Jim Engdahl, chief executive officer of  Great
Western Minerals Group Ltd. (GWG) , told the committee today.  Great Western Minerals is a Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based
rare earth processor.  -- Editors: Steve Geimann, Judy Pasternak  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  