-- 
GE Sees Saudi Energy Sales Doubling as Gas Turbines Cut Oil Use

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-06-03T15:37:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/ge-sees-saudi-energy-sales-doubling-as-gas-turbines-cut-oil-use.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  expects to
double energy revenue from Saudi Arabia in the next five years
by increasing sales of gas power turbines, curbing the amount of
oil needed locally to produce electricity.  With  oil prices  around $100 a barrel, Saudi Arabia and
other oil producers in the  Middle East  will try to free more of
their crude for exports rather than burning it to generate
electricity, GE Vice Chairman John Krenicki, who heads the
Fairfield, Connecticut-based company’s Energy Infrastructure
division, said in a June 1 interview.  “The GDP here is growing by 5 to 6 percent and there is a
huge need to be energy efficient, so I see no reason why our
business will not double in the coming five years,” Krenicki
said in Dammam,  Saudi Arabia , where the company started up a
$250 million plant to build and repair turbines for power
generators.  GE has 500 installed gas turbines in Saudi Arabia that
generate about half of the country’s electricity, he said. Saudi
Arabia is  GE Energy ’s biggest equipment customer.  Saudi Energy Demand  Saudi Arabia’s energy demand may double in 10 years, and GE
stands to retain its current market share by continuing to
provide more efficient power-generation equipment, Krenicki
said.  Saudi Arabia has an overall generating capacity of about
45,000 megawatts, according to the state utility Saudi
Electricity Company. That’s likely to climb to 75,000 megawatts
by 2018 and more than 120,000 megawatts by 2030, according to
the utility.  The world’s largest crude exporter may need to burn as much
as 3 million barrels of oil a day by 2020 from 800,000 barrels
of now to generate power if it doesn’t improve efficiency, Ziyad
Al Shiha, the executive director of Aramco Power Systems, told
reporters May 15 at a conference in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.  “My job is to see the future and 10 years from now the
biggest trend in this region will be  energy efficiency ,”
Krenicki said. “Using hydrocarbon fuel more efficiently for
power generation will lead to a big market for GE.”  In addition to boosting gas-turbine sales in Saudi Arabia,
GE will focus on winning contracts from the oil, petrochemical,
and mining sectors, Krenicki said.  Selling to  Saudi Aramco   Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest state-owned oil company,
plans to double its power-generating capacity to 4,000 megawatts
by 2015 to supply all the electricity it expects to need for
crude and natural-gas production.  The additional capacity wouldn’t be part of the national
 power grid  and would make Aramco independent in power by 2015,
Aramco’s Al Shiha said.  GE, the world’s biggest provider of power-generation
equipment and services, said today it had agreed to sell four of
9FB gas turbines to Harbin Electric Co. to use at wind and solar
projects in  China . Two of the turbines will incorporate so-
called  FlexEfficiency technology  that enables them to ramp up
twice as fast in response to fluctuations in wind or solar
power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  