-- 
General Motors Said to Consider Buying Back Shares From U.S. Treasury

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-06-03T20:58:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/general-motors-is-said-to-consider-buying-back-shares-from-u-s-treasury.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  executives have
discussed buying shares from the U.S. Treasury Department to
reduce the government’s 33 percent stake in the automaker, three
people familiar with the matter said.  No decisions have been made on a share purchase, said the
people, who didn’t want to be identified revealing internal
discussions. Detroit-based GM is weighing uses for its cash,
such as shoring up its underfunded pension plans, paying off
debt and funding new vehicle programs, the people said.  Using some of the $30.6 billion in cash and marketable
securities GM had at the end of the first quarter to reduce the
government’s stake would relieve investors’ concerns that a
share sale by the  U.S. Treasury  Department would hurt the stock,
said David Whiston, an analyst with Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago .  “There is an overhang on the stock because of government
ownership,” Whiston said in a telephone interview. “GM may
think that buying down Treasury’s stake will remove some of the
overhang.”  GM fell 48 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $29.12 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading after earlier dropping
as much as 2.4 percent. The shares have declined 12 percent
since their initial public offering in November.  The government’s 500 million shares in Detroit-based GM
would be valued at about $14.6 billion at today’s closing price.  ‘Immediate Priorities’  “In terms of uses of cash, we have clear, immediate
priorities, which include further strengthening our balance
sheet and fully funding our pensions,” Jim Cain, a GM
spokesman, said in a telephone interview. “Our objective is to
fund our operations with cash and then return any excess cash to
our shareholders. Nothing has been ruled in or out.”  Mark Paustenbach , a spokesman for the U.S. Treasury,
declined to comment.  GM’s U.S. hourly worker pension plan was underfunded by
$11.2 billion at the end of the first quarter. The company also
had $5 billion in debt and $5.5 billion in preferred stock
outstanding. The company may decide to use its cash for those
obligations first, so no buyback is imminent, the people said.  While GM would want to buy the shares because the stock is
cheap, President  Barack Obama  would be criticized for selling
at a significant loss, one of the people said.  The Treasury has decided to wait until at least July 1 to
prepare for a secondary offering, a person familiar with the
matter has said. By filing an S-3 after July 1, the government
would be able to sell shares more quickly and with a less-
thorough review. In that case, the Treasury likely would wait
until GM reports second-quarter earnings before selling more
stock, delaying the sale until August, the person said.  The Treasury may make a third offering in November or
December and doesn’t need to sell all of the shares this year,
the person said.  The U.S. Treasury Department yesterday announced an
agreement with  Fiat SpA (F)  to sell the government’s remaining 6
percent stake in Chrysler Group LLC. The sale would bring Fiat’s
stake in Chrysler to 52 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  