-- 
GM Says Truck Inventory of More Than 100 Days Won’t Prompt Big Discounts

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-06-03T20:13:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/gm-says-increase-in-truck-supply-won-t-spur-big-discounts-1-.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s truck inventory
of more than 100 days of supply is acceptable in the short term
and won’t prompt a surge in discounts, said  Mark Reuss ,
president of the automaker’s North American operations.  “We’re not going to run big incentives to clear
inventory,” Reuss said at the Detroit Regional Chamber’s
Mackinac Policy Conference on Mackinac Island in northern
 Michigan . “We’ll adjust inventory on a production basis.”  GM ended May with 288,000 trucks in inventory, including a
110-day supply of large trucks,  Don Johnson , GM’s vice president
of U.S. sales, said on a June 1 conference call. The industry
standard is about 60 days of supply. GM had about 275,000 trucks
in inventory at the end of April.  Reuss declined to specify GM’s pricing or output plans.  The automaker’s deliveries in the U.S. fell 1.2 percent to
221,192 vehicles in May, Detroit-based GM said in a June 1
statement. While Johnson said GM is “not anticipating
tremendous growth” in the truck segment, sales may rebound in
the second half of 2011 due to seasonal factors and pent-up
demand.  If truck sales don’t recover in the second half, “the risk
steadily increases that GM will have to raise incentives on
these vehicles in order to clear inventories,” Peter Nesvold, a
Jefferies & Co. analyst, wrote in research note yesterday.  GM fell 48 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $29.12 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, the lowest closing
price since the shares’ initial public offering in November.  GM Incentives  GM is offering rebates of as much as $4,505 as well as
interest-free financing for as long as 60 months on Chevrolet
Silverado and GMC Sierra pickups, according to AIS Rebates, an
 Ann Arbor , Michigan-based provider of incentive data. The trucks
also have reduced-rate financing of as low as 0.9 percent for 72
months, according to AIS.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. automaker, may face
a “pricing headwind” along with GM if inventories stay high,
said Nesvold, who’s based in New York.  “GM’s problem could become Ford’s problem if a second-half
recovery doesn’t emerge and GM needs to discount to flush out
inventories,” he said in the note.  Gasoline prices that averaged $3.90 a gallon in May helped
snap a 17-month streak of increases in F-Series truck sales last
month, said  George Pipas , Ford’s sales analyst.  Market ‘Softness’  “The full-sized pickup category has been affected by
higher gas prices, and this is keeping some truck buyers on the
sidelines,” Pipas said on a June 1 conference call. “We
believe the softness in the truck market is temporary.”  Ford is offering cash incentives this month that can total
$4,000 for F-150 trucks when buyers finance their purchase
through the Ford Motor Credit Co. finance unit, according to
AIS.  Ford fell 17 cents to $14.01 in New York. The shares
earlier dropped to $13.81, the lowest intraday price since March
15.  Automakers cut spending on incentives for U.S. customers in
May by 19 percent to an average $2,303 per vehicle, the lowest
in more than half a decade, according to Autodata Corp.  Ford’s average spending on discounts and promotions
declined 20 percent from a year earlier to $2,432, the  Woodcliff
Lake , New Jersey-based researcher said June 1. GM reduced
incentives 17 percent to an estimated $3,085 per vehicle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Mackinac Island, Michigan, at   knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at   ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 