-- 
Goldman Sachs Said to Be Poised to Sell Litton Mortgage Business to Ocwen

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-03T01:34:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/goldman-sachs-said-to-be-poised-to-sell-litton-mortgage-business-to-ocwen.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is closing
in on the sale of  Litton Loan Servicing LP  to  Ocwen Financial
Corp. (OCN) , two months after writing down the value of the mortgage-
servicing business by about $200 million, according to a person
briefed on the negotiations.  The sale of the unit to Ocwen, a mortgage servicer based in
 West Palm Beach ,  Florida , may be announced within days, said the
person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks
are private.  Litton, based in Houston, is among the mortgage-servicing
businesses cooperating with investigations by 50 state attorneys
general into foreclosure practices. The probe began after
authorities discovered some firms used faulty paperwork to seize
homes.  The inquiries “may result in the imposition of fines or
other regulatory action,” Goldman Sachs said in its quarterly
regulatory filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission on May 10. “As of the date of this filing, the firm
is not aware of foreclosures where the underlying foreclosure
decision was not warranted.”  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman in New York,
said he couldn’t comment. John Britti, executive vice president
at Ocwen, didn’t return telephone and e-mail messages left after
regular business hours yesterday.  The potential sale was reported earlier by the Financial
Times.  Impairment Charge  Litton’s value has declined since Goldman Sachs purchased
it in 2007 for an undisclosed sum. Most of a $220 million
impairment charge that Goldman Sachs took on assets held for
sale in the first quarter was related to Litton, the bank said.
Litton’s mortgage-servicing rights were “not material” to
Goldman Sachs as of March, having dropped from $283 million at
the end of February 2008, filings show.  Goldman Sachs acquired Litton and 1,000 employees at a time
when investors including billionaire  Wilbur Ross  and
Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC purchased mortgage servicers
to help them better understand the market, and profit from
buying discounted loans. Goldman Sachs said in March that it was
considering selling Litton, and a person familiar with the
matter said the firm had failed to find enough distressed
 mortgage loans  to buy.  Goldman Sachs never disclosed how much it paid to acquire
Litton from Credit-Based Asset Servicing and Securitization LLC,
or C-Bass.  Radian Group Inc. (RDN) , the second-largest U.S. mortgage
insurer and a part owner of C-Bass, disclosed a month before the
sale was completed that the unit would be sold for about $467.9
million to an unnamed buyer.  Before buying Litton, Goldman Sachs had tried to avoid
businesses that involved the mass-market or “retail” customer.
David Viniar, Goldman Sachs’s chief financial officer, told
analysts in September 2006, more than a year before the company
bought Litton, that the firm was reluctant to buy a lender
because of the “retail concern.”  “Goldman Sachs is largely an institutional business,”
Viniar said at the time. “There are different risks when you’re
touching the retail customer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 