-- 
Gold May Extend Two-Week Advance on Slowing Growth, European Debt Concern

-- B y   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-06-03T06:21:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/gold-may-extend-two-week-advance-on-slowing-growth-european-debt-concerns.html
Gold may climb, extending a two-week
advance, as slowing global economic expansion and  Europe ’s debt
crisis bolstered demand for precious metals as a store of value.  Immediate-delivery gold swung between a gain and a loss of
0.2 percent before trading at $1,531.80 an ounce at 1:46 p.m. in
Singapore. The metal is little changed this week following last
week’s 1.6 percent gain and 1.2 percent advance the previous
week. Gold futures for August delivery was little changed at
$1,532.70 an ounce.  Manufacturing in  China , Europe and the U.S. slowed in May
and a private report this week showing slower-than-forecast
growth in jobs spurred concern that today’s Labor Department
employment data will trail estimates. European Union and
International Monetary Fund officials will today complete a
review of  Greece ’s plan for 78 billion euros ($113 billion) in
asset sales and austerity measures as they prepare the nation’s
second bailout in little more than a year.  “Wobbly economic numbers are shoring up demand for gold as
the dollar’s decline provides further support,” said Hwang Il Doo, a Seoul-based senior trader with KEB Futures Co. “Growing
economic and geopolitical uncertainties will help cement bullish
sentiment for gold.”  Concern about faster inflation, Europe’s debt crisis, a
weakening dollar and fighting in  Libya  boosted gold futures to a
record $1,577.57 last month. Prices are up 7.9 percent in 2011
after climbing the past 10 years, the longest run of gains in at
least nine decades.  ‘Global Liquidity’  Fifteen of 17 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 88 percent, said bullion will rise next week. One
predicted lower prices and one was neutral. The Fed plans to
complete a $600 billion bond-purchase program, a second round of
so-called quantitative easing, this month and keep  interest
rates  “exceptionally low” for an “extended period.”  “Gold’s causal driver is global liquidity, of which only
one-third is the Fed’s balance sheet,” analysts including
Walter de Wet at Standard Bank Plc wrote in a note. “The other
two-thirds of liquidity are driven by global  government
borrowing . We do not believe that government borrowing in
nominal terms is about to decline.”  Cash silver fell 0.7 percent to $35.94 an ounce, taking
this week’s decline to 5.4 percent. Spot palladium fell 0.6
percent to $767 an ounce, reducing this week’s gain to 0.8
percent, while platinum dropped 0.2 percent to $1,811.50 an
ounce, a 0.6 percent rise this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  