-- 
Goldman Sachs Criminal Probe May Allow Use of Powerful New York State Law

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-06-06T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/goldman-sachs-investigators-in-new-york-wield-laws-stronger-than-the-feds.html
The criminal investigation of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  by the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office has
at its disposal a 90-year-old New York law that makes it easier
for state prosecutors to bring charges than their federal
counterparts.  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. subpoenaed Goldman Sachs,
the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, for records on its
activities leading into the credit crisis, two people familiar
with the matter said. Vance may bring charges under the state’s
Martin Act, which lawyers call a potent tool for New York
prosecutors probing investment frauds, Ponzi schemes and other
white-collar crime.  To prove  securities fraud  in federal court, U.S.
prosecutors must show that a defendant intended to defraud
victims and that the investors relied on misstatements or
omissions. Under the Martin Act,  New York  prosecutors aren’t
required to prove intent, said  Michael Perino , a law professor
at St. John’s University in New York.  “The reason why New York prosecutors love it so much and
Wall Street firms hate it so much is that it is a much, much
easier case to bring,” Perino said in an interview. “All a
prosecutor has to show under the Martin Act is a material
misstatement in connection with a securities offering.”  Vance’s subpoena of New York-based Goldman Sachs related to
the U.S. Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations
report on Wall Street’s role in the collapse of the financial
markets, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the inquiry isn’t public.  Levin Subcommittee  The subcommittee, led by Michigan Democrat Carl M. Levin,
released a 640-page report in April that accused the bank of
misleading buyers of mortgage-linked investments. Levin said
Goldman Sachs also misled Congress about the company’s bets on
the housing market. The firm has said its testimony was truthful.  “Subpoenas are a normal part of the information request
process,” said  David Wells , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs. The
bank is cooperating with the investigation, he said.  Vance is far from deciding to charge any individuals with
crimes, said John Moscow, a former deputy chief of the
investigations division in the  Manhattan  District Attorney’s
Office.  “The big question they’re probably looking to answer is
what happened,” said Moscow, now at Baker Hostetler LLP. “When
you’ve figured out what happened, then you can figure out if
it’s wrongful and it’s criminal. Before you’ve figured out what
happened, it’s premature” to predict the outcome.  ‘A Smoking Gun’  Peter Henning , a professor at Wayne State University Law
School in  Detroit , said he doubts that Vance’s investigators
will find “a smoking gun” in documents that have already been
reviewed by Congress and federal regulators, including the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  By using the Martin Act, Vance may instead be able to
build a criminal case based on circumstantial evidence, he said.  “It makes it easier to prove,” Henning said of the state
statute.  Last year, Goldman Sachs paid $550 million to settle SEC
claims related to its marketing of the complex securities known
as collateralized debt obligations. The settlement resolved
claims that it failed to disclose that hedge fund Paulson & Co.
was betting against, and influenced the selection of, CDOs the
company was packaging and selling.  After the SEC settlement, the Vance probe “has the
appearance of being political piling on,” said attorney  Jacob Frenkel , a former SEC lawyer now with Shulman Rogers Gandal
Pordy & Ecker PA in Potomac,  Maryland .  Criminal Case  “That has to be balanced by the fact that, regardless of
perception, state and local law enforcement have a legitimate
place in the investigative process because the applicable laws
are different,” Frenkel said. “I do not expect that this
investigation will result in a criminal case against Goldman
Sachs as a firm.”  The Martin Act was enacted in 1921, and five years later,
an appeals court said it applied to “all deceitful practices
contrary to the plain rules of common honesty.”  The law imposes a two-year statute of limitations on
misdemeanors and five years on felonies.  The New York state attorney general can bring civil or
criminal actions under the Martin Act, while district attorneys
only use it in criminal cases. Former New York Attorneys General
 Eliot Spitzer  and Andrew Cuomo used the law against investment
banks and the mutual-fund industry, while Robert Morgenthau,
Vance’s predecessor, used it often during his 34-year tenure to
combat boiler rooms, Ponzi schemes, private-placement investment
fraud, and corrupt trading practices.  Mortgage Securitization  Goldman Sachs met last month with New York Attorney General
 Eric Schneiderman ’s office as part of his examination of
mortgage securitization before the housing collapse, according
to a person familiar with the matter. The meeting took place
within the past two weeks, said the person, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because the probe isn’t public.  Schneiderman has been conducting a broad examination of
mortgage practices and the packaging and sale of loans to
investors, according to the person.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and the  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  also are part of that probe, the person said. Four
bond insurers have been subpoenaed as well.  Perjury Charges  The Senate report was referred to the U.S. Department of
Justice and the SEC, which are also investigating.  Levin said at the time of his report that U.S. prosecutors
should review whether to bring perjury charges against Goldman
Sachs Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein, 56,
and other current and former employees who testified before
Congress last year.  Levin said they denied under oath that Goldman Sachs took a
financial position against the mortgage market solely for its
own profit, statements the senator said were untrue.  “The testimony we gave was truthful and accurate and this
is confirmed by the subcommittee’s own report,” Goldman Sachs
said in a statement in April after the Levin report was released.  “The report references testimony from Goldman Sachs
witnesses who repeatedly and consistently acknowledged that we
were intermittently net short during 2007,” Goldman said in
that statement. “We did not have a massive net short position
because our short positions were largely offset by our long
positions, and our financial results clearly demonstrate this
point.”  ‘Widespread Mistrust’  In a Jan. 25 speech to the New York City Bar Association,
Vance, who only has jurisdiction over crimes committed in
Manhattan, said “the Martin Act has never been more relevant”
as “widespread mistrust infects financial markets.” Still, he
said the law is “marred by its overly lenient penalties,” and
he called on state lawmakers to stiffen punishment.  Vance said he would seek prison sentences of as long as 8
1/3 years to 25 years for frauds involving more than $1 million.
The crime now carries no minimum prison sentence, regardless of
the money involved.  “Whether the perpetrator steals $500 or $500 million, the
felony penalty is the same -- that reserved for the lowest-level
felonies in New York,” two Vance deputies, Adam S. Kaufmann and
Marc Frazier Scholl, wrote in Business Crimes Bulletin last
September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  