-- 
Goolsbee Calls Jobs Report ‘Little Bump’ on Recovery Path

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-06-03T14:04:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/goolsbee-calls-jobs-report-little-bump-on-recovery-path-1-.html
Austan Goolsbee , President Barack Obama’s chief economist, said today’s jobs report represents a
“little bump” in the road to recovery and that the broader
trends are “substantially more positive” than when Obama took
office.  “We should never read too much into any one month’s
report,” Goolsbee, chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisers, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “No
doubt we face some headwinds and hit a little bump in the
road.”  Manufacturing has continued to grow and there still is more
to be done to drive the unemployment rate down, he said.  Employers added 54,000 jobs in May, the smallest increase
in eight months, the Labor Department reported in Washington.
The  unemployment rate  rose 0.1 percent to 9.1 percent.  Economists expected the numbers to show employers added
165,000 jobs in May, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  “Our economy is not creating enough jobs, and Democrats’
binge of taxing, spending, borrowing and over-regulating is a
big part of the reason why,” House Speaker John Boehner, an
Ohio Republican, said in a statement.  “It’s disappointing, but I think there are temporary
factors that have lowered payroll growth in May,” including
supply disruptions in  Japan , said Gus Faucher, director of
macroeconomics at Moody’s Analytics in  West Chester ,
Pennsylvania.  Faucher said there may be “another month or two of weaker
growth” before the economy regains its footing to add about
200,000 jobs per month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 morning@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  