-- 
Greece to Get Next Aid Payment From New Bailout

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-06-03T16:47:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/greece-to-get-next-aid-installment-as-euro-zone-officials-plan-new-bailout.html
European Union and International
Monetary Fund officials agreed to pay the next installment to
 Greece  under last year’s 110 billion-euro ($161 billion)
bailout, paving the way for an upgraded aid package that
includes a “voluntary” role for investors.  “I expect the eurogroup to agree to additional financing
to be provided to Greece under strict conditionality,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said after meeting
with Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  in Luxembourg today.
“This conditionality will include private sector involvement on
a voluntary basis.”  Papandreou, confronting opposition at home and the demands 
of international lenders, will establish an agency to manage an
accelerated asset-sale schedule and make “significant” cuts in
public-sector employment, according to a statement released
today in Athens.  The agreements capped a week when Greece’s fiscal crisis
worsened enough for Moody’s Investors Service to raise the
probability of a default to 50 percent. Bonds gained today on
the prospect of a new aid plan, with the yield on the country’s
two-year notes falling 146 basis points to 23.1 percent.  With the review complete, EU leaders will now focus on
wrapping up a new bailout package to prevent the euro area’s
first sovereign default. A year after the rescue that aimed to
stop the spread of the debt crisis, Greece remains mired in
recession, shut out of financial markets and saddled with the
biggest debt load in the euro’s history.  Shut Out  Under the original rescue, Greece was due to sell 27
billion euros of bonds next year. EU leaders and Papandreou have
acknowledged that a return to markets won’t be possible with
Greece’s 10-year debt yielding 16 percent, more than twice the
level at the time of the bailout. The EU is looking to close
that funding gap through new loans and bondholders’ willingness
to roll over Greek debt, EU officials have said.  Europe ’s financial leaders needed to hammer out a revised
Greek package to persuade the IMF to pay its share of the 12
billion-euro tranche originally due in June. The IMF had
indicated that it would withhold its 3.3 billion-euro piece
unless the EU comes up with a plan to close Greece’s funding gap
for 2012. Today’s statement said the full payment would be made
in early July.  IMF Funds  The Washington-based lender provided 30 billion euros of
Greece’s original loans, along with a third of the loans since
granted to Ireland and  Portugal  as the debt crisis spread.  Policy makers have in recent days narrowed in on bond
rollovers as a pillar of any new aid package. The step would be
favored by the ECB, according to two officials familiar with the
situation, because it would skirt the risk of any agreement
being classified as a default. Investors may be given preferred
status, higher coupon payments or collateral, said two other EU
officials familiar with the situation.  About 55 percent of investors in Greek  government bonds 
would likely roll over holdings of securities maturing through
2013 to help the nation manage its  budget deficit , according to
ING Groep NV.  Papandreou is promising 6.4 billion euros of spending cuts
this year, another 22 billion euros up to 2015, and 50 billion
euros in sales of assets including  Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA (HTO)  and Public Power Corp SA. The pledges were key
to securing the fifth bailout payment. Papandreou is facing a
backlash against the additional measures at home.  Workers Protest  Members of the PAME labor union took over the Finance
Ministry offices in central Athens today, preventing employees
from entering the building. They hung a banner from the roof
calling for a general strike to oppose the measures.  A group of 16 lawmakers from Papandreou’s Pasok party this
week sent the premier a letter asking for a discussion of the
austerity process. Papandreou will present the plan to lawmakers
and his Cabinet next week. Workers at state-owned companies are
organizing a 24-hour strike on June 9.  Moody’s downgraded Greece to Caa1, on a par with Cuba, and
raised the nation’s risk of default on June 1 after policy
makers considered asking investors to reinvest in new Greek debt
when existing bonds mature. The move prompted Greek 10-year
bonds to fall to the lowest since January.  “The general perception is that Greece will head to some
form of restructuring, and eventually the ratings will probably
move to D,” said  Brian Barry , an analyst at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in London. “For a sovereign rating to fall from
about A to this level is new territory.”  Banks Cut  Moody’s today cut the ratings on eight Greek banks,
including the nation’s largest,  National Bank of Greece SA. (ETE)   The new aid and debt rollovers will give Greece more time
to trim its budget deficit, though will do little to reduce its
rising debt load.  Greece’s debt is likely to mushroom to 157.7 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011, the highest in euro history, the
European Commission said May 13. It predicted a 3.5 percent
economic contraction, shedding doubts on whether Greece will
generate the  tax revenue  to pay off its debts.  The aid package may be more about buying time for Europe’s
banks and other high-debt nations to prepare for the fallout of
a Greek restructuring, said  James Nixon , chief European
economist at Societe Generale SA in  London .  “This strategy of playing for time is not without its
merits” he said in a note to investors, today. “Firstly it
buys a number of the other Europeans time to put their own house
in order and pursue their programs of fiscal consolidation. Time
hopefully will also help Europe’s banks provision against future
losses on sovereign debt. Finally and perhaps most critically,
time also enables the peripheral economies themselves to
implement fiscal reforms and return to a primary balance.”  Juncker rejected the worst-case scenario.  “It’s obvious that there will be no exit of Greece from
the euro area,” he said. “There will be no default and Greece
will be able to fully honor its obligations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling in Paris at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  