-- 
Greece Says EU-IMF Review Has Concluded Positively, Paves Way for Bailout

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-06-03T13:53:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/greece-says-eu-imf-review-has-concluded-positively-paves-way-for-bailout.html
Greece’s government said a review of
the country’s economic progress by the European Union,
 International Monetary Fund  and  European Central Bank  concluded
“positively” today.  Discussions on fiscal plans, state asset sales and
structural reforms were held during the review, according to an
e-mailed statement from the Athens-based  Finance Ministry . These
plans will be submitted to Cabinet and then to Parliament in the
coming days, it said.  With the fourth progress review complete, EU leaders will
now focus on wrapping up a new bailout package to prevent the
euro area’s first sovereign default. A year after the rescue
that aimed to stop the spread of the debt crisis, Greece remains
mired in recession, shut out of financial markets and saddled
with the biggest debt load in the euro’s history. Moody’s
Investors Service said June 1 that it sees a 50 percent chance
of a Greek default.  The EU is considering a new aid package that includes a mix
of new loans and  Greece  speeding asset sales and budget cuts.
Holders of Greek bonds may also be asked to voluntarily rollover
their debt as a way of shrinking the funding gap. The measures
are due to be approved at a summit on June 23-24.  Approval of Greece’s efforts by the EU and IMF is needed to
ensure payment of the bailout plan’s next instalment of 12
billion euros, due later this month. The team of inspectors,
known as the “troika,” have been reviewing Greece’s progress
in meeting the terms of the bailout since May 11.  Budget Gap  Greece has vowed to trim the budget gap to 7.5 percent of
gross domestic product this year after the shortfall came in at
10.5 percent last year. Fallout from Greece’s crisis led to a
surge in bond yields of distressed euro-area nations and
Portugal and Ireland have followed in seeking rescues.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s wage and pension cuts
and sales-tax increases in return for the emergency loans from
the EU and the IMF have contributed to a slump in demand, with
Greece’s economy shrinking an estimated 4.4 percent last year.
The European Commission forecasts a 3.5 percent contraction this
year, complicating efforts to boost revenue enough to bring down
the deficit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  