-- 
Gross Says More Quantitative Easing Unlikely: Tom Keene

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-03T17:40:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/gross-says-more-buying-by-fed-unlikely-even-as-job-growth-slows-tom-keene.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said the
 Federal Reserve  is unlikely to do a third round of quantitative
easing even with the economy adding fewer jobs than forecast.  Central bankers are likely to “extend the extended
period” language for longer in their policy statements, Gross
said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . The less-than-projected pace of jobs growth in May that
the Labor Department reported today shows that “there is a
persistency here. It’s back to our old new normal,” he said.  U.S. employers in May added the fewest workers in eight
months and unemployment unexpectedly rose to 9.1 percent,
underscoring the concern of policy makers that the expansion is
failing to boost the labor market. The Fed began the second
round of asset purchases, known as QE2, on Nov. 12 after buying
$1.7 trillion in securities through last year, increasing the
amount of money in circulation to spur growth and prevent
deflation. The Fed’s $600 billion in purchases of Treasuries are
due to end this month.  “We don’t see a QE3. There has been too much discussion
and dissent within the Fed to permit that type of program,”
Gross said in the interview from Pimco’s headquarters in  Newport
Beach ,  California . Given the current pace of growth and
inflation “they will speak to a fed funds rate that persists
for an extended period of time, which in effect caps  interest
rates  in the process.”  Not Buying Treasuries  The Fed has kept its target rate for overnight lending
between banks at a record low range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  Gross reiterated that he isn’t buying Treasuries for his
$243 billion Total Return Fund even as the government bond
market rallies because yields are too low once inflation is
taken into consideration. Mortgages, corporate bonds and
sovereign debt of other nations are more attractive, he said.  Treasuries have returned 2.7 percent this year as Gross
reduced government and related debt in the Total Return Fund to
minus 4 percent of assets as of April 30. The fund has returned
0.57 percent in the past month, lagging behind the performance
of 74 percent of its competitors, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Governments such as the U.S. are intentionally keeping
interest rates lower than they should be to help reduce record
debt levels, setting up investors up for a “skunking, or pocket
picking,” Gross said.  Stock Picks  Investors could seek higher real returns than those now
offered from government debt through investing in shares of
“conservative” companies such as  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , Merck &
Co. or those of utilities, according to Gross.  “The Treasury market up to seven or eight years is
negative in terms of real interest rates, and that’s not a
positive for savers,” Gross said. “But if they took that money
and invested it in a conservative stock, such as a Proctor or a
Merck or a utility yielding 4 percent; then that’s 3.5 to 4
percent real yield in comparison to those negative real yields
in the Treasury side. So you have to take a little bit of a
chance in order to avoid getting your pocket picked here.”  An overdependence on debt has the global economy in a
period of fundamental transformation that Pimco has termed the
“new normal.” Gross, the founder and co-chief investment
officer of Pimco, forecast last year that mounting deficits and
tighter financial regulation will damp growth in the U.S. and
the euro zone.  Yields Decline  Payrolls increased by a less-than-projected 54,000 last
month, after a revised 232,000 gain in April that was smaller
than initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed today.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for
payrolls to rise 165,000. The jobless rate climbed to the
highest level this year from 9 percent a month earlier.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note dropped three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3 percent at 1:31 p.m. in
 New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125
percent security due in May 2021 rose 8/32, or $2.50 per $1,000
face amount, to 101 1/32.  The Total Return Fund can have a negative position by using
derivatives or futures or by shorting. Shorting is borrowing and
selling an asset in anticipation of making a profit by buying it
back after its price has fallen.  The fund has returned 8.23 percent in the past year,
beating 77 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Gross, the founder and co-chief investment officer at
Pimco, has averaged returns of 8.75 percent on average over the
past five years, topping 98 percent of his competition.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.28 trillion of assets as of March 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  