-- 
Midtown Manhattan ‘Red-Hot’ Office Prices Nearing Peak, Green Street Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-06-03T19:33:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/midtown-manhattan-red-hot-office-prices-nearing-peak-green-street-says.html
Midtown  Manhattan  office values are
within 15 percent of their mid-2007 peak, as real estate
investors flock to the city expecting rent growth, Green Street
Advisors Inc. said.  Office prices in Midtown have recovered 88 percent of the
value lost since the 2008 credit crisis, which made loans for
real estate acquisitions scarce, the  Newport Beach , California-
based research firm wrote today in a report introducing its
Manhattan Office Property Price Index.  “Value appreciation for midtown Manhattan office
properties has been red-hot,” wrote Michael Knott, a real
estate investment trust analyst at Green Street. “The market
continues to benefit from improving fundamentals, a brighter
outlook and strong investor demand. Midtown is one of the
world’s most desirable office markets in which to invest.”  Rents have started to recover in midtown Manhattan, the
biggest and most-expensive U.S. office market, and will probably
continue to climb, Knott said. Lease rates for Midtown  office
space  rose 1.6 percent from June 2010 through March after
falling 27 percent since September 2008, according to data from
brokerage Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  Search for Yield  Office values in all of Manhattan are poised to exceed the
2007 peak in the next 12 months, Knott said in an interview.
Investors are seeking higher yields, with 10-year U.S. Treasury
notes at 3 percent.  “There’s still a push toward hard assets,” he said.
“You’ll continue to see that as the outlook for fundamentals
has improved and is likely to continue to come along.”  The report was issued with Green Street’s national office
market update, which found that values had returned to within 20
percent of the peak. Markets such as  New York  and  Washington ,
which combine high demand with government regulations that make
it hard to build new supply, led the surge.  Today’s U.S. jobs report, which showed payrolls growing at
the slowest pace in eight months and the  unemployment rate 
rising to 9.1 percent, may temper a recovery for the U.S. office
market, Knott said.  “If this is something other than temporary, it will be a
drag for forecasts of recovery -- not only for the U.S. overall
but even for Manhattan,” he said. “It has to have, at least at
the margin, a negative implication, though probably not as
negative” for Manhattan.  Investment-Quality Buildings  Only the values of Manhattan buildings owned by REITs and
other publicly traded real estate companies are used to
calculate the Green Street index, according to Knott. Those
properties represent a good proxy for the borough’s investment-
quality office stock, he said.  The index is dominated by buildings owned by four publicly
traded companies:  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP) , Brookfield Office
Properties,  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG)  and  Vornado Realty Trust. (VNO)   Public companies own more than 50 million square feet (4.6
million square meters) of Manhattan office buildings, or about
15 percent of the market, according to Green Street.  Offices in all of Manhattan have recovered about 78 percent
of the value lost in the slide, which lasted from mid-2007 to
mid-2009, according to the report. “The trough was deep but
short-lived,” Knott wrote. Prices now have returned to mid-to-
late-2006 levels.  Downtown Challenges  Lower Manhattan properties have not recovered as strongly,
gaining back 41 percent of their value since hitting bottom in
2009, according to Green Street.  Downtown still “faces challenges,” including lease
expirations at Brookfield’s World Financial Center and
additional space expected as two World Trade Center towers open
in the next three years, Knott wrote.  Last week’s announcement that  Conde Nast  Publications Inc.
would take about a third of the 3 million-square-foot One World
Trade Center could help downtown landlords fill their vacancies,
he wrote.  “Conde Nast is a trend-setter,” Knott said in an e-mail.
“By virtue of planting a giant flag downtown, this becomes a
more hip destination for others to consider.”  Green Street indexes measure value by surveying brokers and
real estate executives and include transactions in negotiation.
Other indexes, including Moody’s Investors Service’s
Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price Index, only use completed
transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  