-- 
If India and Pakistan Come to Nuclear Blows, Blame U.S.: Mishra

-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-06-03T04:03:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/if-india-and-pakistan-come-to-nuclear-blows-blame-u-s-mishra.html
Are  India  and Pakistan likely to
stumble into nuclear war? This appalling possibility has long
been kept alive by conflicts between the two historical enemies,
but it may have been pushed closer to fulfillment by a
catastrophic failure of  U.S. foreign policy  in  South Asia .  In recent weeks, a cover story in the Economist on the
world’s "most dangerous border" described Pakistan’s rush to
militarize its nuclear capacity, and former U.S. Secretary of
State  Henry Kissinger  warned of a pre-World War I, Balkans-like
scenario in South Asia that leads to a global conflict.  Other developments, which have largely escaped the radar of
Western commentators, give deeper cause for foreboding. A day
after U.S. Navy SEALs killed  Osama Bin Laden , the Indian army
and air chiefs declared that the Indian military was capable of
mounting similar operations in Pakistan. Pakistan’s spy chief,
Lieutenant General Ahmad Shuja Pasha, responded with the claim
that the Pakistani military had already rehearsed retaliatory
strikes on India.  This isn’t just playground posturing. Soon after conducting
nuclear tests in 1998, India’s Hindu nationalist government
threatened Pakistan with an "all-out war." The rhetoric on the
other side of the border was no less intemperate. In 2001, the
Hindu nationalist-led government responded to a terrorist attack
by Pakistan-trained militants on India’s Parliament by
mobilizing hundreds of thousands of troops on the border. Both
nations eventually pulled back from the brink.  Angry Indian Politicians  But since then, terrorist attacks, such as the one on
Mumbai in November 2008, routinely provoke angry calls from
Indian politicians and news commentators for surgical strikes on
training camps and headquarters of extremist groups in Pakistan.  Writing as  Israel  pounded Gaza a few weeks after the Mumbai
attacks, the former diplomat  Shashi Tharoor  spoke of India’s
 "Israel envy."  Indians know that war with Pakistan would be
catastrophically counterproductive. Yet, as he wrote, "when
Indians watch Israel take the fight to the enemy, killing those
who launched rockets against it" some of them "cannot resist
wishing that they could do something similar in Pakistan."  One reason India hasn’t is that since 2004 it has had a
prime minister, Manmohan Singh, who remains committed to
improving relations with Pakistan. (That Singh is one of an
aging generation of Sikhs born in undivided India may have
something to do with this outlook.) Last month, he distanced
himself from India’s Strangelovian military bosses and talking
heads, and “a line of thinking” that he said was “mired in a
mindset that is neither realistic nor productive.”  Manmohan Singh ’s Dilemma  Singh knows that the long-unresolved issue of Kashmir lies
at the heart of the tense relationship between India and
Pakistan. More than 70,000 people, mostly Muslim, have died in
India-administered Kashmir as troops have battled an insurgency
backed by Pakistan. Any "Idiot’s Guide to South Asia" will tell
you that peace in the region will remain a distant dream until
India and Pakistan reach a solution acceptable to Kashmiri
Muslims as well as nationalists in both countries.  This will initially require, at the very least, India to
shift troops out of the Kashmir valley, where during the past
two summers hundreds of thousands of Indian soldiers have
confronted increasingly nonviolent and overwhelmingly young
Muslim protesters. Unfortunately, India’s new image in Europe
and America as a rising power has diminished the Indian appetite
for compromise and negotiation.  Following  Russia ’s Example  Singh faces a strident domestic constituency that believes
in isolating and neutering Pakistan while striking Kashmir with
what a former Indian diplomat called, invoking Russia’s example
in Chechnya, an "iron fist." There is in India, as in Israel, a
public opinion that recoils at the prospect of talking on equal
terms with neighbors viewed as terrorists.  As is the case in the  Middle East , the only country to have
leverage with both parties is the U.S. And there are few
obstacles to using this leverage with India. The close American
relationship with India is still new, and not captive to
domestic politics in the U.S.  Seeking to make India a strategic counterweight to  China ,
and a solid business partner, the administration of  George W. Bush  rewarded it with an exceptionally generous nuclear deal.
Prime Minister Singh expressed the sincere gratitude to India’s
pro-American political and business elites when he blurted out
to Bush in late 2008, "The people of India deeply love you."
 Barack Obama  followed up the nuclear agreement with a host of
economic deals during his visit to India in November last year.  America’s Dual Role  There is of course an unresolvable contradiction in a
foreign policy that builds up India’s military and economic
capacity while pushing  Pakistan  to launch resource-draining
campaigns against extremists. Not surprisingly, the sight of the
U.S. cozying up to Pakistan’s traditional enemy has made the
Islamabad establishment not only more paranoid, but also more
duplicitous in its dealings with American military and
intelligence.  The diplomatic advantages of the new American intimacy with
India have yet to come into clear view. Unlike Bush, President
Obama is fully aware of the importance of Kashmir to his most
urgent foreign policy challenge: stabilizing Afghanistan and
Pakistan. He came to office claiming that “working with
Pakistan and India to try to resolve the Kashmir crisis in a
serious way” were among the “critical tasks for the next
administration.”  Obama spoke of devoting serious diplomatic resources to get
a special envoy in there, to figure out a plausible approach,
and essentially to make the argument to the Indians: "You guys
are on the brink of being an economic superpower, why do you
want to keep on messing with this?"  Arguing With Pakistan  The argument for the Pakistanis was to be: "Look at India
and what they are doing, why do you want to keep being bogged
down with this, particularly at a time when the biggest threat
now is coming from the Afghan border?"  But as the WikiLeaks cables revealed, the Obama
administration surrendered quickly to the Indian ultimatum that
the envoy to the region, the late  Richard Holbrooke , exclude
Kashmir from his responsibilities. Holbrooke himself remained
convinced, according to his widow, Kati Marton, that Pakistan
would remain unstable and vulnerable to extremism until adequate
steps to resolve Kashmir were taken; he advocated more American
pressure on India in this regard.  When Obama visited India in late 2010, however, he chose to
encourage India’s naively triumphalist self-perception as a
country that has "already arrived.’’ It’s unlikely that he
subscribes to the anachronistic Cold War binaries of the  Bush
administration  that counterpoised India and China. Yet he
carefully avoids mentioning Kashmir in his speeches.  Like the Balkans  Perhaps it’s not too late for Obama to try the more
evenhanded and integrated approach to India and Pakistan that he
outlined as a candidate. The mood in both countries is febrile -
- Kissinger’s analogy with the pre-WWI Balkans is exact in this
respect.  The Indian media are giving extensive coverage to the
terrorism trial in  Chicago  that implicates Pakistani
intelligence in the 2008 Mumbai attacks. Any new terrorist
attack originating in Pakistan would vastly increase the number
of Indians clamoring for a punitive assault on their malevolent
neighbor; and even Prime Minister Singh may not be able to
resist them.  Pakistan of course has been readying itself for a military
incursion across the border. Last month, it tested a remarkably
mobile missile system designed to unleash low-yield nuclear
weapons on tank formations. The bin Laden killing and successive
attacks by the Pakistani Taliban and al-Qaeda have left its
military and intelligence establishments humiliated and seething
with anger.  Faced with a rash Indian strike, it might well behave even
more recklessly -- an increasingly plausible scenario that
America’s rigidly compartmentalized policies in South Asia have
done little to thwart.  (Pankaj Mishra is a columnist for Bloomberg View. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Pankaj Mishra in Mashobra, India, at  pmashobra@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  