-- 
India Fights Lloyd’s Expanding Piracy Zone After 300-Fold Insurance Jump

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-06-03T02:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/india-fights-lloyd-s-expanding-piracy-zone-after-300-fold-insurance-jump.html
India is lobbying Lloyd’s of  London 
to reverse its expansion of the area judged prone to pirate
attacks to cover almost all of the nation’s west coast after
insurance costs surged as much as 300-fold this year.  “There is no longer any threat along the Indian coast,”
Shipping Secretary K. Mohandas said in a May 23 interview,
adding there had been no attacks within 800 kilometers (500
miles) of the coast due to stepped-up naval patrols. The  Joint
War Committee , which assesses insurance risks, extended the zone
in December about 900 miles east as the hijacking range grew.  A reversal by Lloyd’s would reduce insurance costs after
some premiums skyrocketed to as much as $150,000 per voyage from
$500, the  Indian National Shipowners’ Association  said, hurting
shippers’ earnings. Essar Shipping Ltd. and Varun Shipping Co.
are among companies that say the move is eroding margins as they
struggle with overcapacity and rising costs.  “Typically ships bought insurance for the three days they
were moving through the  Gulf of Aden  -- now they have to pay for
the additional 10 days” through the  Indian Ocean , said Sean
Woollerson, an insurance broker at London-based  Jardine Lloyd
Thompson Group Plc (JLT) , which specializes in shipping. The larger
zone means about 28,000 more journeys a year are liable to
higher premiums than the 22,000 made in the old zone, he said.  Shares of Mumbai-based Essar and Varun have underperformed
this year as an oversupply of ships knocked 16 percent from the
Baltic Dry Index, a gauge of raw-material transportation costs.
Essar slid 13 percent to May 17, when its shares were suspended
pending a spinoff, and Varun is down 19 percent this year, while
 India ’s benchmark index has fallen 10 percent.  Increased Patrols  India’s government and shipping companies gave evidence
last month to the Joint War Committee that shows increased
Indian naval patrols have driven the pirate threat away. The
government will continue to press for the decision to be
overturned, Mohandas said in his New Delhi office.  “The freight markets are not in the rosiest of states so
if there are additional premiums then obviously you get
squeezed,” said A.R. Ramakrishnan, managing director at Essar
Shipping, which was spun off last month from Essar Ports Ltd.  Varun Shipping is paying an extra $70,000 per voyage to
cover the risk of piracy on about 16 ships that travel between
India and the  Middle East , Managing Director Yudhishthir D. Khatau said. “The extra cost is harming us very seriously,” he
said.  The decision to expand the zone was driven by increasing
attacks and the sophistication shown by pirates able to strike
further out at sea, according to Neil Roberts, a senior
executive of the Joint War Committee.  ‘Political Sensitivities’  “I do understand that there are political sensitivities
around this, all we are doing is dealing with the facts,”
Roberts said in a phone interview from London.  The Indian navy currently has four ships patrolling the
area at all times and has formed an inter-ministerial committee
to negotiate with hijackers and advise vessel owners. There are
about three dozen military ships altogether now engaged in anti-
piracy operations, according to an April  report  by the U.S.
Congressional Research Service.  The Indian government’s response to piracy has been
inadequate and won’t bring down premiums, said P.K. Ghosh, who
writes about piracy for the  New Delhi-based Observer Research
Foundation .  “This problem needs to be tackled at its root, which is in
Somalia,” said Ghosh. “So far there is a lack of will in the
international community to do this.”  Piracy Cost  About 52 percent of the 530 million tons handled by India’s
13 major ports in 2008-2009 went through the west coast,
according to  government data . Indian trade grew from 14 percent
of gross domestic product in 1988 to about 51 percent in 2009,
according to the  World Bank  and  World Trade Organization .  The efforts of more than 20 navies, including the U.S.,
U.K. and  China , failed to prevent a record surge in pirate
attacks last year. Pirates cost shipping companies as much as
$12 billion in 2010, according to the London-based International
Chamber of Shipping.  Hamilton, Bermuda-based Frontline Ltd., the world’s biggest
supertanker operator, last week said diverting to avoid pirates
in the area costs about $100,000 per trip in extra fuel.  War-risk insurance premiums typically cost 0.1 percent of
the value of a ship, according to Jardine Lloyd Thompson’s
Woollerson. While some insurance charges may have risen as much
as the Indian National Shipowners’ Association estimates, for
most vessel operators the additional charges are “much more
modest,” he said.  There were 17 hijackings and 29 cases of vessels being
fired at in the new zone last year, according to the Joint War
Committee. This year, that has dropped to one successful
hijacking and 12 attacks, according to the London-based
 International Maritime Bureau .  “These waters are far, far safer than many places across
the globe,” said Essar’s Ramakrishnan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  