-- 
Italy’s Credit Downgrade Unlikely: UBS

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-06-03T09:39:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/italy-s-credit-downgrade-unlikely-ubs.html
A downgrade of  Italy ’s credit rating
is unlikely after its outlook was lowered last month by  Standard
& Poor’s , economists at UBS Securities LLC said.  “A substantial deterioration of the present situation is
needed to trigger a downgrade,” London-based economists led by
Stephane Deo said in a report released today. There’s a “small
probability” that “contagion from  Greece  and fiscal laxity”
by the government would prompt a downgrade, they said.  Italy’s outlook was cut on May 21 to negative from stable
by S&P, which cited slowing economic growth and “diminished”
prospects for reducing government debt that advanced to almost
120 percent of gross domestic product last year. “Potential
political gridlock could contribute to fiscal slippage,” added
S&P, affirming Italy’s A+ long-term rating, the fifth-highest,
and its top-ranked A-1+ short-term rating.  The negative outlook implies a one-in-three chance that
Italy’s rating could be lowered within the next 24 months.  “The government could try the easier route of fiscal
largesse to counter the steady decline of its popularity” after
a defeat in local elections across the country last month, the
UBS economists said. Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti “is
likely to be fiercely against any such move.”  After the warning by S&P, Italy’s Treasury said it will
“intensify” structural changes to the economy and push ahead
with measures to balance the budget by 2014 following a deficit
of 4.6 percent of GDP last year. The balanced budget goal is
“appropriate,”  Bank of Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi  said last
week, adding that the government must cut current spending by 5
percent from 2012 through 2014.  Lowered Forecasts  Tremonti in April cut the official forecast for economic
growth in Italy to 1.1 percent this year and 1.3 percent in
2012, from previous projections of 1.3 percent and 2 percent,
respectively. The euro region’s third-biggest expanded 0.1
percent in the first quarter, compared with 0.8 percent in the
euro region, as gains in exports failed to offset sluggish
domestic demand.  Opposition leaders including Pier Luigi Bersani have called
on Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  to resign and for an early
national vote to be held after the ruling parties’ defeat in key
mayoral elections, including in the premier’s hometown of Milan.  Berlusconi vowed today to complete an overhaul of the tax
system and see out his term, which ends in 2013. “Ours is the
only possible government” that “can guarantee governability at
such a delicate time for the economy,” he said in an interview
on Canale 5 television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 