-- 
J&J Ordered to Pay $327 Million Over Deceptive-Marketing Claims

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-04T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/j-j-ordered-to-pay-327-million-on-deceptive-marketing-claims.html
A  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit was ordered
by a South Carolina judge to pay more than $327 million in
penalties for deceptively marketing the antipsychotic drug
 Risperdal  as safer and better than competing medicines.  J&J’s  Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals  unit repeatedly
violated the state’s consumer-protection laws by sending a 2003
letter to doctors touting Risperdal as superior to rival drugs
and including deceptive information in the product’s warning
label, Judge  Roger Couch  in Spartanburg, South Carolina,
concluded.  The drugmaker’s executives “allowed the profit-at-all-
costs mentality to cloud” their judgment in connection with the
drug’s marketing campaign and its labeling, Couch said in his
17-page ruling.  Janssen official said yesterday they’ll appeal Couch’s
order and maintained the company fully disclosed Risperdal’s
health risks and properly marketed the antipsychotic medicine.  “We don’t believe that the dissemination of an FDA-
approved package insert constitutes a violation of the  South
Carolina Trade Practices Act ,” Kara Russell, a spokeswoman for
Janssen said in an e-mailed statement. “We do not believe the
ruling can be upheld on appeal.”  South Carolina ’s lawyers, who originally sued the J&J unit
in 2007 for making misleading claims about Risperdal, sought
billions of dollars in penalties over the targeted marketing and
labeling material.  Sales Decline  Risperdal’s global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007 and
declined after the company lost patent protection. The drug
generated $3.4 billion in sales in 2008, or 5.4 percent of  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J’s total revenue, according to
company filings. Sales of the drug fell to $527 million last
year, according to a January earnings report.  Risperdal Consta , the long-acting version of the
antipsychotic drug, generated $1.5 billion in sales last year
for J&J.  The state’s case centered on drug-safety claims that J&J
and Janssen made in November 2003 correspondence to about
700,000 doctors across the U.S., including more than 7,000 in
South Carolina.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  responded with a
warning letter saying J&J made false and misleading claims that
minimized the potentially fatal risks of diabetes and overstated
the drug’s superiority to competing products.  South Carolina’s lawyers argued during a two-week trial of
the state’s suit that Risperdal’s safety label also downplayed
diabetes and other health risks.  ‘Clever Effort’  The faulty labels were included in as many as 722,000
Risperdal prescriptions written in South Carolina from 1994 to
2007, the state’s lawyers told Couch at an April hearing. The
deceptive information also was presented in 183,144 sales calls
on doctors by Janssen drug representatives, and 496,565 sample
boxes distributed over that 13-year period, South Carolina’s
lawyers argued.  In his ruling, Couch found the Risperdal letter to South
Carolina doctors was a “clever effort” to “manipulate the
message” about the drug.  He concluded penalties were warranted for 7,180 letters
Janssen officials mailed to physicians in the state along with
another 36,372 instances in which the drugmaker’s salespeople
used the missive to market Risperdal in person, according to
court records.  $4,000 per Violation  Couch awarded South Carolina a total of $174.2 million in
penalties over the letter based on a rate of $4,000 per
violation of the state’s consumer-protection laws, according to
his ruling.  He also found 509,499 sample boxes of Risperdal distributed
in the state contained labels with deceptive materials that
warranted penalties. The judge awarded the state $152.8 million
in penalties over the label at a rate of $300 per violation.  J&J’s lawyers claimed in court papers that the state
engaged in “triple counting” by seeking to have prescriptions,
marketing letters and sales calls on individual doctors included
as violations.  Penalizing the drugmaker for multiple contacts with doctors
who were allegedly “misled or deceived each time he or she had
been exposed to” the targeted information would be unfair,
Steven Pugh, one of the company’s attorneys, said in May 3
filing.  Hold Them Accountable  The award puts drugmakers on notice that if they “try to
spin information or try to see what they can get away with,”
state officials will hold them accountable, Donald Coggins, a
Spartanburg-based lawyer who represented the state, said in an
interview yesterday.  The case is the third of about 10 state lawsuits to be
considered by jurors over J&J’s Risperdal marketing campaigns.
In June, J&J won dismissal of  Pennsylvania ’s suit alleging the
company hid the drug’s diabetes risk and tricked regulators into
paying millions more than they should have for the medicine.  A Louisiana jury in October ordered the drugmaker to pay
$257.7 million in damages to that state for making misleading
claims about Risperdal’s safety. A judge later added $73 million
in legal fees to the award.  A West Virginia judge in a 2009 non-jury trial awarded
$3.95 million, finding the company misled doctors about the
risks and benefits of Risperdal. The state dropped its Risperdal
claim after J&J won an appeal, company officials said in
February.  J&J fell 39 cents to $66.09 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading yesterday. J&J’s 4.95 percent bonds due in
2033 fell 1.36 percent to 102.3 cents on the dollar, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  The case is State of South Carolina v. Janssen
Pharmaceuticals, 2007-CP-42-1438, Circuit Court for Spartanburg
County, South Carolina (Spartanburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  