-- 
Jack Kevorkian, Who Assisted Suicides, Dies at 83

-- B y   M a r k   S c h o i f e t
-- 
2011-06-03T15:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/jack-kevorkian-assisted-suicide-advocate-dies-at-83.html
Jack Kevorkian, the defiant physician
known as Dr. Death who was hailed as a compassionate visionary
for igniting a national debate on assisted suicide and reviled
as a ghoulish publicity hound, has died. He was 83.  Kevorkian died at about 2:30 a.m. at William Beaumont
Hospital in Royal Oak, Michigan, according to  Associated Press ,
citing his lawyer, Mayer Morganroth. Kevorkian had been
hospitalized since last month with pneumonia and kidney
problems.  An official cause of death had not been determined, but
Morganroth said it appears Kevorkian suffered a pulmonary
thrombosis when a blood clot from his leg broke free and lodged
in his heart, the  Detroit Free Press  reported.  By his own estimate, Kevorkian helped 130 patients kill
themselves with his self-built “suicide machines,” sometimes
inside his dilapidated 1968 Volkswagen van. The retired
pathologist usually dropped the corpses off at hospital
emergency rooms and morgues, or left them in motel rooms.  Kevorkian was convicted of murder in 1999 in the death of
Thomas Youk, 52, a  Michigan  man suffering from amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig’s disease. He injected Youk
with lethal drugs and then showed a videotape of the death on
the CBS News television program  “60 Minutes.”  Sentenced to 10
to 25 years in prison, he was paroled in June 2007.  Kevorkian’s medical career was unconventional from the
start. As an intern in the mid-1950s, he began photographing the
eyes of patients at the moment of death, a practice that led his
hospital colleagues to give him his nickname. Later he gained
notoriety for advocating unorthodox medical practices such as
live operations on death-row prisoners and blood transfusions
from corpses to living patients.  ‘Keeping Their Distance’  By the time of his release from prison, most  assisted-
suicide advocates  had distanced themselves from Kevorkian, even
though they credited him with raising public awareness of a
previously taboo subject. In the U.S.,  Oregon , Washington and
Montana now allow some form of physician-assisted suicide, or
what proponents call “death with dignity.”  “Dr. Kevorkian himself may not be a good poster boy for
the right-to-die movement,” the  Pittsburgh Post-Gazette  wrote
in an editorial after his release. “But with the first of the
75 million  baby boomers  now moving into their 60s, the
uncomfortable questions Dr. Kevorkian raised are not likely to
go away. On the contrary, they are apt to be with us more than
ever.”  Murad “Jack” Kevorkian was born on May 28, 1928, in
Pontiac, Michigan, the son of Armenian immigrants. His mother
and father had escaped the massacre of Armenians by the Ottoman
Turks in 1915. His father, Levon, ran a small excavating
company.  At Pontiac High School, where he graduated in 1945,
Kevorkian received a special award from the National Honor
Society and was a member of the Chemistry-Physics Club. He
taught himself German and Japanese.  Turning Point  Kevorkian enrolled at the  University of Michigan  and then
the university’s medical school. He graduated in 1952 with a
specialty in pathology, the study of disease.  A turning point in Kevorkian’s life came as an intern at
Henry Ford Hospital in  Detroit . He came upon a middle-age woman
who was suffering from cancer. In his 1991 book,  “Prescription:
Medicine -- The Goodness of Planned Death,”  Kevorkian described
the patient as an “emaciated skeleton” with “yellow eyeballs
sunken in their atrophic sockets.”  “It seemed as though she was pleading for help and death
at the same time,” Kevorkian wrote. “Out of sheer empathy
alone, I could have helped her die with satisfaction. From that
moment on, I was sure that doctor-assisted euthanasia and
suicide are and always were ethical, no matter what anyone says
or thinks.”  Army Medic  Kevorkian served 15 months as an Army medic in  Korea 
beginning in 1953, and then finished his service at an
encampment in  Colorado , where he taught himself to read music.
He learned to play Bach on the recorder and flute.  After his discharge, Kevorkian did residencies at Pontiac
General Hospital, Detroit Receiving Hospital and the University
of Michigan Medical Center.  It was while working at Detroit Receiving in 1956 that
Kevorkian began to establish his ghoulish reputation. He asked
to work nights so he could photograph the eyes of patients as
they died, sometimes while wearing a black armband. If eyes
could pinpoint the exact moment of death, Kevorkian speculated,
doctors would know when resuscitation efforts were useless.  Kevorkian published his research in the American Journal of
Pathology in an article titled “The Fundus Oculi and the
Determination of Death.”  His next crusade was to persuade government officials to
allow vivisection -- live operations -- of death-row prisoners.
His plan was to anesthetize the inmates, and then cut them open
for testing, transplants and organ harvesting before killing
them with a lethal injection.  Nazi Comparisons  Kevorkian brushed aside comparisons to the experiments
conducted by Nazi concentration camp doctors.  “Those medical crimes apparently were such a horrendous
discovery for the civilized world that, regrettably, they seem
to have blunted reason and common sense with regard to the
rational assessment of the use of condemned human subjects for
research,” he wrote.  Kevorkian presented a paper on the subject at the  American
Association  for the Advancement of Science in  Washington .
Shortly afterward, the University of Michigan Medical Center,
where he was then working, asked Kevorkian to drop his campaign
or quit. He left and went back to Pontiac General.  Some critics, notably  Wesley J. Smith  of the National
Review and Weekly Standard magazines, said Kevorkian’s
“obsession” with human vivisection -- not compassion for the
suffering -- was the real motivation behind his later campaign
for assisted suicide.  Corpse Transfusions  As opposition to the death penalty grew in the 1950s,
Kevorkian turned his attention to a new cause: promoting blood
transfusions from cadavers to live patients. Kevorkian, who had
read that the Soviet army used the technique in World War II,
argued that the procedure would save the lives of American
soldiers.  In 1961, he published an article in the American Journal of
Clinical Pathology detailing his experiments on corpses,
according to  “Appointment With Doctor Death,”  a 1993 book by
Michael Betzold. In one, he plunged a syringe into the heart of
a dead girl, drawing out her blood and transferring it through
makeshift tubing into the veins of his assistant.  “Most of us just sort of changed the subject when he got
on it,” Murray Levin, then an internist at Pontiac General,
told Betzold. “We thought it was inappropriate. We had plenty
of blood. We didn’t need to deal with cadavers.”  The Pentagon rejected his idea, and Kevorkian vowed never
again to waste time in futile appeals for support from
government agencies, Betzold wrote.  In 1970, Kevorkian was named chief pathologist at Saratoga
General Hospital on the east side of Detroit.  California Dreaming  Six years later, Kevorkian abruptly abandoned his medical
career, packed his Volkswagen van and moved to  Los Angeles  in
the hopes of producing a feature film based on Handel’s
“Messiah,” an 18th-century oratorio based on the life of
Jesus. According to “Appointment With Doctor Death,” Kevorkian
spent $100,000 of his own money and was able to get the film
made, though it was never shown. He later declined to speak
about it.  Kevorkian moved back to Michigan in 1986 but was unable to
find a job. It was during a 1987 trip to the Netherlands, where
euthanasia was legal in some instances, that Kevorkian’s
interest in the subject was rekindled.  ‘Risky Step’  “I decided to take the risky step of assisting terminal
patients in committing suicide,” he wrote later. “I could not
even consider performing active euthanasia and thereby being
charged with murder.”  In June 1987, Kevorkian advertised in a newspaper as a
“physician consultant” who was available for “death
counseling.” One response came from a man whose brother was in
a coma and therefore could not consent; the other was from a
woman Kevorkian deemed to be mentally ill.  Undeterred, he published an article, “The Last Fearsome
Taboo: Medical Aspects of Planned Death,” in the Journal of
Medicine and Law in 1988. In it he called for the creation of
what he called obitoria, or suicide clinics, where terminally
ill patients could go to die. Even the Hemlock Society, which
advocated legal physician-assisted suicide for the terminally
ill, rejected the idea of walk-in death clinics.  Kevorkian built his first thanatron, or “death machine,”
from $30 worth of scrap parts. Patients would press a button to
activate an intravenous drip of sodium thiopental, a barbiturate
used as a general anesthetic, which put them to sleep and set
off a 60-second timer. After 60 seconds, the timer would
activate a lethal dose of potassium chloride through the tube,
and the patient would die of a heart attack.  Death in Van  Kevorkian’s first assisted suicide took place on June 4,
1990. Janet Adkins, a 54-year-old  Portland , Oregon, woman with
 Alzheimer’s disease , died by using the suicide machine in
Kevorkian’s van in Groveland Oaks Park near Holly, Michigan.
Four days later, a county judge enjoined Kevorkian from
assisting in any more suicides.  A murder charge filed against Kevorkian was dismissed in
December 1990 because Michigan had no law against assisted
suicides. It was the first of several unsuccessful attempts to
prosecute him.  The next year, the state revoked Kevorkian’s license to
practice medicine, forcing him to switch to carbon monoxide for
his suicides since he could no longer prescribe drugs. In
December 1992, Governor  John Engler  signed a temporary law
making assisted suicide a four-year felony while a commission
studied the issue.  Sent to Jail  Kevorkian was sent to jail in 1993 after he refused to post
$20,000 bail in the death of Thomas Hyde, a 30-year-old Michigan
man with  Lou Gehrig ’s disease. Bail was reduced and paid for by
Geoffrey Fieger, a flamboyant trial lawyer who would become a
ubiquitous presence on television as Kevorkian’s spokesman.  In December 1994, the Michigan Supreme Court upheld the
constitutionality of Michigan’s ban on assisted suicide and also
ruled that the practice was illegal in the state under common
law. The U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear Kevorkian’s appeal.  In 1996, Kevorkian was acquitted in four more assisted
suicides. A judge dismissed murder charges in two of those
deaths. For the start of one of the trials, Kevorkian wore a
colonial costume to protest that he was being tried under
centuries-old common law.  In one notorious assisted suicide, Kevorkian removed the
man’s kidneys and held a press conference to offer the organs to
anyone needing a transplant.  Michigan’s law permanently banning assisted suicide took
effect in September 1998, though by then prosecutors had given
up trying to stop him.  ‘Consider Yourself Stopped’  Perhaps eager for a confrontation with authorities,
Kevorkian switched from assisted suicide to euthanasia. He
administered a lethal injection to Youk in September 1998 and
was charged with second-degree murder after the videotaped death
was shown on “60 Minutes” two months later. The sentencing
judge said, “Sir, consider yourself stopped.”  By then, Kevorkian said, he had helped more than 130 people
end their lives.  Kevorkian was released from prison on June 1, 2007, and
placed on parole for two years, with stipulations that he could
no longer help anyone kill themselves. He was also barred from
caring for anyone who is older than 62 or disabled.  ‘Cavalier, Reckless’  “The fundamental flaw in Dr. Kevorkian’s crusade was his
cavalier, indeed reckless, approach,” the  New York  Times wrote
in an editorial. “He was happy to hook up patients without
long-term knowledge of their cases or any corroborating medical
judgment that they were terminally ill or suffering beyond hope
of relief with aggressive palliative care.”  In 2010, Kevorkian was portrayed by actor  Al Pacino  in the
HBO film  “You Don’t Know Jack.”  Before the film aired,
Kevorkian told  Anderson Cooper  of  CNN  that he didn’t regret his
actions.  “No, why would I?” he said. “I wouldn’t have started if
I thought I was going to regret it. I knew what I was stepping
into. I knew I was getting into one of the most illegal things
in the world. It was the right thing to do. That doesn’t mean
I’m stronger than most people. It just means I’m loonier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Schoifet in New York at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  