-- 
Jackman Emcees Polo, Seven Bells, Jeopardy’s Watson, !WAR: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-06-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/jackman-emcees-polo-seven-bells-jeopardy-s-watson-war-n-y-weekend.html
What makes a music hook work? Why do
some tunes impel you to get up and dance while others make you
cry?  Join beatbox artist Chesney Snow and hip-hop group Stone
Forest Ensemble for the opening night reception of “Biorhythm:
Music and the Body.”  It’s at the Eyebeam Art + Technology Center, 540 W. 21st
St. beginning at 6 p.m.  The three-day exploration is part of the larger World
Science Festival now taking place in venues around town.
Stargaze with astronomers at  Brooklyn Bridge Park , explore the
Hudson aboard the  Mystic Whaler , and meet IBM’s Jeopardy! champ
Watson.  Sunday’s Street Fair, with interactive exhibits, games and
shows, runs from 9:59 a.m. to 5:59 p.m. at Washington Square
Park.  Information: +1-212-348-1400;
 http://worldsciencefestival.com .  Saturday  Take a look at Cory Arcangel’s amusing “Pro Tools” at the
Whitney Museum. Trained as a musician, he works across media,
from performance to print, though the focus is on digital
technologies and Internet culture.  The centerpiece is “Various Self Playing Bowling Games”
(2011), which consists of projections of video games from the
1970s to the 2000s, as they evolve from the pixilated to the
realistic. Alas, there are only gutter balls, which is the
artist’s wry spin on gaming.  There’s also “Masters” (2011), an interactive golf game,
but be warned -- no matter how you hit the ball, it’s never
going into that hole.  And check out “Paganini Caprice No. 5” (2011), where the
virtuosic violin piece is reconstructed entirely from YouTube
videos of heavy metal guitar players.  Runs until Sept. 11 at the Whitney Museum of American Art,
945 Madison Ave. Information: +1-212-570-3600;
 http://whitney.org .  Saturday Afternoon  “Do women have to be naked to get into the  Met Museum ?”
asked the Guerrilla Girls in the 1980s.  It’s still a good question, one asked in Lynn Hershman
Leeson’s documentary “!Women Art Revolution -- !W.A.R.”  She’s been interviewing fellow artists, including Marina Abramovic, Cindy Sherman and Barbara Kruger, since the 1960s
about the struggle to get their work seen, and the film will
make you boo and cheer in equal measure.  One funny scene shows apoplectic male politicians
denouncing Judy  Chicago ’s “The Dinner Party” on the floor of
Congress. It’s now the centerpiece of the Elizabeth A. Sackler
Center for Feminist Art at the  Brooklyn Museum .  At IFC Center, 323 Sixth Ave. Information: +1-212-924-7771;
 http://www.ifccenter.com/films/women-art-revolution .  Then savor a very cold martini at Buvette, Jody Williams’s
gastroteque, as you choose among various savory small plates
like fried oyster frittata with remoulade and duck with cabbage.  42 Grove St. Information: +1-212-255-3590.  Saturday Night  The mystical, melodic drone of School of Seven Bells will
fill Brooklyn Bowl on Saturday night.  On their first album, “Alpinisms,” the shoe-gazey vocals
of the twin Deheza sisters rode over noisy, tribal-inflected
grooves, producing a chilly tension.  On the newest album, “Disconnect from Desire,” SVIIB
sound bigger, warmer but just as meticulously crafted. Their
voices are in equilibrium with the banging beats below, and the
music coalesces into left-field pop that gets straight under
your skin.  61 Wythe Ave.,  Brooklyn . Information: +1-718-963-3369;
 http://www.brooklynbowl.com .  Sunday  Hugh Jackman  will be master of ceremonies at the Veuve
Clicquot Polo Classic taking place on  Governors Island .  As the ponies are put through their paces, you can picnic,
sip champagne and do some serious people-watching.  There will be a restaurant row that includes Danny Meyer’s
Blue Smoke, Tabla and Public Fare, plus treats from Gabriel
Kreuther, top toque at the Modern.  Ferries start at 10 a.m., gates open at 11 a.m., and the
match begins at 2:30 p.m.  And it’s all in a good cause -- a benefit for the  Urban Zen 
Foundation’s Hope, Help & Rebuild Haiti.  Information: +1-212-254-6677;  http://vcseason.com/polo .  Sunday Night  Experience the cool alto sax of Lee Konitz, who has been
recording in all manner of styles for nearly five decades.  He performs at the Blue Note with the all-star team of Bill
Frisell on guitar, Gary Peacock on bass and Joey Baron on drums.  It’s part of the monthlong, city-wide jazz festival
celebrating the Blue Note’s 30th anniversary. Other festival
performers include Bobby McFerrin, Dave Brubeck,  Brian Wilson 
and Chaka Khan.  Shows at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. at the Blue Note, 131 W. 3rd
St. Information: +1-212-475-8592;
 http://bluenotejazzfestival.com .  (With assistance from A. M. Erika. Zinta Lundborg is an
editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 