-- 
James Arness, Marshal Matt Dillon of ’Gunsmoke’ TV Show Fame, Dies at 88

-- B y   K a t h r y n   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-06-03T19:09:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/james-arness-marshal-matt-dillon-of-gunsmoke-tv-show-fame-dies-at-88.html
James Arness , who played marshal  Matt
Dillon  for 20 years as “ Gunsmoke ” became television’s longest-
running primetime drama, has died. He was 88.  The actor died of natural causes, according to the
 Associated Press , citing the actor’s  website , which didn’t
provide further details.  Arness  acted in CBS’s “Gunsmoke” from its 1955 debut
until the show’s final episode in 1975. He reprised his role in
five made-for-TV movies.  Dennis Weaver , who won an Emmy Award
playing Dillon’s deputy, died in February 2006.  At 6 feet, 7 inches, Arness played a serious lawman in
Dodge City. Off camera, his loud, infectious laugh could bring
filming to a halt. He kept to a schedule that let him spend
months away from Hollywood as an avid surfer, sailor, skier and
pilot.  “A true television legend has passed but will never be
forgotten,” New York-based  CBS Corp. (CBS)  said today in an e-mailed
statement. “James Arness will always be remembered as one of
the biggest stars in the history of television.”  Arness was born on May 26, 1923, in  Minneapolis ,  Minnesota ,
to Ruth and Rolf Aurness, a salesman for a medical supply
company. He later changed the spelling of his name in Hollywood.  His younger brother Peter, also an actor, chose the name
Graves for his credits, which included the “ Mission
Impossible ” television series.  Army Draftee  Arness relished outdoor life as a youth, saying he was a
poor student and often cut classes in high school. He got his
diploma in 1942, Arness said, only because the principal still
felt grateful to his grandfather, a doctor from  Norway , who’d
given her family free treatment during the Depression.  “She told me to get my act together and do something that
would make him proud of me,” Arness said in his  autobiography .
At his mother’s urging, he enrolled at Beloit College in
 Wisconsin  but was soon drafted by the U.S. Army.  From the start, military training and discipline “gave me
a new sense of worth and belonging,” he wrote in his memoir.
“Those were happy days for me.”  He was shipped to Naples in December 1943 and was wounded
two months later by German machine-gun fire at Anzio. He spent a
year in hospitals and rehabilitation for a shattered leg.  Off to  California   Discharged in early 1945, Arness returned to Minneapolis
and entered a two-year program at the  University of Minnesota .
Again, he struggled in school. Before long, he took a
professor’s advice and transferred to a local school for radio
announcers.  After a few months at a local station, he quit to visit
California, where he fell in with a beach crowd, learned to surf
and took acting lessons. Largely for his ability to mimic a
Swedish accent, Arness was hired for a role in “ The Farmer’s
Daughter ” (1947), for which Loretta Young won an Academy Award.  In an audition at the Pasadena Playhouse, Arness met his
future wife, Virginia Chapman, who had studied theater at the
 University of California  at  Los Angeles . They were married in
1948 and had two children, Jenny Lee and Rolf. Arness adopted
Craig, Chapman’s son from a previous marriage.  Arness appeared in 18 movies, including “Battleground”
(1949), “Wagon Master” (1950) and “ The Thing from Another
World ” (1951) before signing a contract to work for  John Wayne ’s production company.  Marital Strife  Wayne barred women from his company, and Arness found that
the macho culture created tension at home, where his wife had
once guided his career. The marriage ended in divorce.  According to his autobiography, Arness was strong-armed
into going on “Gunsmoke.” After saying he feared TV would hurt
his film career, the actor said, a television executive warned
he might not have any acting career if he didn’t cooperate.  Wayne also urged Arness to accept, saying his film company
had no more work for him. Then Wayne made an on-air introduction
before the first episode and predicted Arness would become a big
star.  Over the years, the actor rented or bought homes near
surfing beaches and ski slopes that let him share his outdoor
passions with his children. He took pride in the surfing prowess
of his younger son, Rolf, who became a World Surfing Champion in
1970 at age 18.  His son Craig, a former National Geographic photographer
who became a stock photo agent and then an Alpaca breeder, died
in 2004. His daughter died in 1975.  Arness married his second wife, Janet, in 1978.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathryn Harris at  kathrynh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  