-- 
Japanese Companies Free to Swap Emission Credits, Official Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-06-03T12:03:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/japanese-companies-free-to-swap-emission-credits-official-says.html
Japanese emitters are free to swap
Certified Emission Reduction credits for cheaper Assigned Amount
Units as the earthquake-stricken country meets mounting costs
for complying with the 1997  Kyoto Protocol , an official said.  CER credits traded for 12.75 euros ($18.47) a metric ton
today on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London , having
gained 12 percent in the year to date. Orbeo, the Paris
emissions venture of  Rhodia SA (RHA)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, assumed
a price of 5 euros a ton for AAUs in March.  There’s nothing to stop Japanese companies selling CERs
they’ve already bought and buying AAUs, said Toshiaki Nagata, a
deputy director in the Kyoto Protocol office of the Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry. “It could be a viable thing to do
in terms of cost efficiency,” he said in an interview yesterday
at Carbon Expo in Barcelona.  Japan needs 300 million tons of credits in the five years
to 2012, including 200 million being bought by its private
sector, according to a  World Bank  report published June 1. The
quake may add 74 million tons of carbon dioxide equivalent as
the country is forced to replace power from atomic reactors with
thermal generation, Orbeo estimated in March.  There are 10 billion tons of spare AAUs, with half owned by
 Russia  and a quarter by Ukraine. That’s much more than total
demand of about 1.4 billion tons in the five years to 2012, when
Kyoto targets expire, the World Bank said. It’s unclear what
value AAUs will have in future because nations can’t agree to a
successor to Kyoto.  Weaker Market  Sales of the spare units could hurt the European Union
carbon price because emitters in that program can also use CERs
for compliance, a senior European climate official said
yesterday. The EU program is the world’s biggest greenhouse gas
market.  Peter Zapfel, head of policy co-ordination in the European
Commission’s climate unit, told delegates at the conference the
price may be hurt should a nation with spare AAUs sell, for
example, 500 million tons. “There’s a very clear channel,
relationship, between how many AAUs are put on the market and
how in the end at some stage it could affect the European carbon
price and it definitely won’t strengthen it.”  Zapfel said he wasn’t implying that a nation or nations
with surplus units would make such large sales. Nagata said the
Japanese government isn’t preparing to swap its own supply of
CERs for the cheaper allowances. “It’s not our plan,” he said.  It would cost  Japan  370 million euros to buy AAUs to cover
emissions created as a consequence of the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami, assuming the country has to pay 5 euros for every
AAU,  Emmanuel Fages , an analyst at Orbeo, said in March.  Under the  Kyoto treaty , developed nations agreed to limits
on emissions and received so-called AAUs up to that amount. The
extra costs for Japan would be “a significant drain on a budget
already strained,” Fages said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  