-- 
Japan’s Tea Industry Facing Shortage as Nuclear Radiation Taints Shipments

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-06-03T09:33:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/japan-s-tea-industry-facing-shortage-as-nuclear-radiation-taints-shipments.html
Japan  may face a shortage of green
tea as radiation leaking from the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power station tainted leaves, spurring the government to
restrict shipments from four prefectures.  The government decided yesterday to curb shipments of dried
tea leaves containing more than 500 becquerel per kilogram of
radioactive cesium and ordered a halt in shipments from the
eastern prefectures of Ibaraki, Chiba, Kanagawa and Tochigi
where tainted produce was detected. Japan’s tea production,
including fresh and dried leaves, was worth 102.1 billion yen
($1.3 billion) in 2009, according to the agriculture ministry.  The decision came after Shizuoka prefecture, Japan’s
largest growing region representing about 40 percent of total
output, declared its green tea was safe. Governor Heita
Kawakatsu said last month tests on fresh leaves and drinks
showed they contained cesium amounts well below the government
levels. Still, cesium levels in dried leaves could be about five
times higher than fresh leaves, said Yasuo Sasaki, senior press
counselor at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.  “The new regulation may spur shipment restrictions from
Shizuoka prefecture, slashing supplies and boosting prices of
green teas,” Sasaki said today in a telephone interview.
“Higher prices could spur consumers to shift from green tea to
cheaper alternatives such as barley tea or oolong tea.”  The government also asked each prefectural governor to test
dried tea leaves for radioactive contamination.  Shizuoka prefecture, west of  Tokyo , produced 33,400 metric
tons of dried green tea in the year ended March 31, accounting
for 39.3 percent of the nation’s total production. The southern
prefecture of Kagoshima is the second-largest grower, producing
24,600 tons, according to the ministry.  Cookies, Ice Cream  One of the test results showed fresh tea leaves from Izu
city in the prefecture contained 98 becquerel of cesium per
kilogram, according to the Shizuoka  website .  The government made the decision because green tea is also
processed into seasoning for various food products including
cookies and ice cream, said Taku Ohara at the inspection and
safety division of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare.  “As dried tea leaves could be consumed directly by humans,
we need to test them and ban sales of tainted products,” he
said today by phone.  “We have not tested dried tea leaves as they are used in
the middle of tea processing and are not a finished product. We
have tested fresh tea leaves and tea drinks,” said Toshiyuki
Aoki, assistant director at the office of tea and agricultural
production at the Shizuoka prefectural government. “We would
like to decide how to respond through discussion with government
officials.”  Drink makers such as  Ito En Ltd. (2593)  purchase Japanese green
tea as a raw material. The company’s shares lost 2.6 percent to
1,370 yen today on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., the operator of the crippled
nuclear plant, aims to meet a deadline to stabilize reactors at
the station within six to nine months, Junichi Matsumoto, an
official for the power utility, said on May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 