-- 
Japan May Escape Recession Tag as Government Panel Members See GDP Rebound

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-06-03T00:58:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/japan-v-shaped-recovery-beckons.html
Japan ’s slump after the March 11
earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis may be too short-lived to
be called a recession, economists advising the government say.  “The plunge was rapid and steep, but the economy was
fortunately able to bottom out very quickly,” Yuji Shimanaka,
chief economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.
in Tokyo, said in an interview. “What will follow now is a V-
shaped recovery.”  Shimanaka and Koichi Haji, members of a seven-member panel
that advises the Cabinet Office on business cycles, say the
contraction is likely to be shorter than the five-month minimum
for an official recession.  The world’s third-biggest economy may be emerging from the
worst of the disaster that devastated north-eastern coastal
regions, killed thousands and crippled  Tokyo  Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. Industrial output grew
in April and faster-than-expected repairs to supply chains will
aid a recovery,  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said
this week.  Reconstruction work may help to drive a rebound, with
parliament last month approving an initial 4 trillion yen ($50
billion) spending package. In addition, utilities are rushing to
boost gas generation after shutdowns of nuclear power stations.  According to Shirakawa, supply constraints are “being
relaxed more quickly than expected initially as a result of
 strenuous efforts  by firms.”  Housing Boom  Toyota Motor Corp. predicts that its domestic output will
recover to 90 percent of normal levels this month, while Sekisui
House Ltd., the nation’s second-largest home builder, says that
the reconstruction work may spur the nation’s biggest housing
boom in at least 15 years.  Haji, chief economist at NLI Research Institute in Tokyo,
said that the economy is likely to have contracted only in March,
April and perhaps May, and forecast a 0.1 percent expansion in
gross domestic product this fiscal year.  At the same time, a recovery may be hampered by political
infighting, damaged business and consumer confidence, and
lingering limits on power supplies. While Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  survived a no-confidence vote yesterday, disunity in the
ruling party is hampering his efforts to spur growth while also
containing the nation’s debt burden.  Takeaki Kariya, also a member of the committee, is not as
optimistic as Shimanaka and Haji. He sees as much as an 80
percent chance of the government declaring a recession.  ‘Temporary Fireworks’  “People talk about how reconstruction will kick-start
growth, but that money’s just temporary fireworks,” the Meiji
University business professor said in an interview last month.
“The real worry is that all these companies are re-evaluating
whether to keep their facilities in Japan. Combined with the
country’s poor prospects for growth, there’s a real risk that
all our money shifts abroad.”  The advisory panel focuses on the coincident index, a
composite of 11 monthly figures that is the broadest indicator
of economic health.  GDP contracted an annualized 3.7 percent in the first
quarter after also shrinking in the final three months of last
year. A 3 percent annual decline in April through June will be
followed an expansion of 1.9 percent in the third quarter and
5.5 percent in the fourth, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  