-- 
Japan’s Bonds Decline on Political Divisions After Quake, Moody’s Warning

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-06-03T22:27:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/japan-s-bonds-decline-on-political-divisions-after-quake-moody-s-warning.html
Japan ’s 10-year bonds declined as
widening political divisions dimmed prospects Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan  will be able to carry out planned fiscal changes.  Bond futures pared gains from a six-month high as Kan’s
pledge to step down set off a contest to select Japan’s next
leader. Kan survived a no-confidence vote in parliament on June
2 after appeasing  Democratic Party  of Japan rebels with an offer
to resign once a crisis following the nation’s biggest
earthquake is resolved. The  Ministry of Finance  will sell 700
billion yen ($8.7 billion) in 30-year bonds on June 7.  “Ten-year bonds with yields below 1.2 percent are
overvalued,” said  Ayako Sera , a strategist at Sumitomo Trust &
Banking Co. in Tokyo, which manages the equivalent of $306
billion. “Political turmoil is negative for Japanese bonds.”  The 10-year yield added one basis point this week to 1.13
percent as of 5:08 p.m. yesterday in  Tokyo  at Japan Bond Trading
Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.2
percent securities due June 2021, which were auctioned to
investors on June 1, traded at 100.628 yen.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery rose 0.18 on the
week to 141.06 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The contracts
touched 141.18 on June 2, the highest since Dec. 7.  Lawmakers at the ruling DPJ are divided over the timeframe
for Kan’s resignation, with his predecessor saying it could be
by month-end and the prime minister suggesting it might not be
until early next year.  Industrial Production   As Kan “tries to keep his premiership longer, political
uncertainty has increased,”  Kazuhiko Sano , chief strategist at
Tokai Tokyo Securities Co., wrote in a research note yesterday.  Ten-year yields jumped three basis points on May 31, the
most since April 6, after a government report showed industrial
production increased in April. Factory output gained 1 percent
from March, when it plunged 15.5 percent following the
unprecedented earthquake on March 11 that triggered a deadly
tsunami, the Trade Ministry said.  On the same day, Moody’s Investors Service placed the
Japanese government’s Aa2 credit rating on review for a possible
downgrade. The company cited “faltering” economic growth
prospects and a “weak” policy response as reasons for the
action.  The prior sale of 30-year debt on April 12 drew bids valued
at 3.39 times the amount on offer, compared with the average of
3.91 for the past 10 auctions. Primary dealers, which are
required to bid at government debt sales, often reduce holdings
of bonds in case prices decline before they can pass on the new
securities to investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 