-- 
Kenya Yield to Rise to More Than 9-Year High on Price, Bank of Africa Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-06-03T10:58:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/kenya-yield-to-rise-to-more-than-9-year-high-on-price-bank-of-africa-says.html
Kenya ’s three-month borrowing costs
are poised to climb to the highest in more than nine years by
the end of the year as inflation in East Africa’s biggest
economy quickens, according to Bank of Africa.  Inflation accelerated to a 25-month high of 13 percent in
May as fuel and food prices rose in line with surging global
commodity costs. The Central Bank of Kenya, which targets
inflation of five percent, has raised the key lending rate to
6.25 percent and raised the  cash reserve ratio  to 4.75 percent
to curb price growth. Cooling inflation is among the nation’s
key priorities, Domenico Fanizza, the International Monetary
Fund mission chief in Kenya, said May 24.  Yields on Kenya’s 91-day treasury bills increased to 8.798
percent at yesterday’s auction of the debt, the highest since
May 2002, compared with 7.942 percent at last week’s sale,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If inflation rises to as much as 18 percent, the yield
could rise to 10 percent by December,” Kennedy Butiko, deputy
head of treasury at Bank of  Africa , said by phone from the
capital, Nairobi. The bill’s yield was last above 10 percent in
April 2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation should peak at 17 percent by mid-year, driving
bond yields higher over the next few months, before price growth
eases in the second half of 2011, Yvonne Mhango, sub-Saharan
Africa economist at Johannesburg-based Renaissance BJM, said by
phone today.  Spending, Deficit Funding  Kenya plans to increase spending by 16 percent to 1.16
trillion shillings ($13.3 billion) in the next fiscal year
through June 2012 as investment on roads and power expands,
Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said yesterday. Expenditure on
infrastructure in the budget will jump about 35 percent to 221
billion shillings from a year earlier. Kenyatta is due to give
his annual budget speech in parliament on June 8.  Kenya’s third-quarter revenue collection was 7.3 percent
below target, according to the  Finance Ministry . Planned
government borrowing rose to 125 billion shillings in the
current year through June, from an original estimate of 105
billion shillings, to fund implementation of a constitution
enacted in August and cope with drought, Kenyatta said March 23.  “With  government spending  going up, they may need to issue
more papers to fund the deficit and let the free market
operate,"  Zul Butt, head of treasury for southern and eastern
Africa at Citigroup Inc., said by phone from Johannesburg today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  