-- 
Kevin Bacon’s Nazi Doctor Fights X-Men; School Massacre: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/kevin-bacon-s-nazi-doctor-fights-x-men-school-massacre-movies.html
I thought I was an expert on the
Cuban Missile Crisis until I saw “ X-Men: First Class .” Little
did I know that a band of mutants saved the world from nuclear
annihilation.  Fantasy history plays a big part in the fifth film of the
blockbuster Marvel comic-book series. The story of how the
mutants developed their super powers and formed their alliances
is set against the backdrop of escalating Cold War tensions
between the U.S. and  Soviet Union .  The movie focuses on Charles Xavier ( James McAvoy ) and Erik
Lehnsherr (Michael Fassbender), young friends destined to become
bitter rivals Professor X and Magneto. Personally I find Kennedy
and Khrushchev, who make newsreel appearances, more compelling.  Still, “First Class” is far better than the previous two
installments, which were ugly mutations of Bryan Singer’s
imaginative “X-Men” and “X2.”  The new film is fresh and energetic, and features a
memorable villain played with gusto by Kevin Bacon. It tries to
cover too much ground with too many characters, but at least
it’s ambitious.  Singer returns as a producer, with Matthew Vaughn (“Kick-
Ass”) directing from a script he co-wrote with Jane Goldman and
the “Thor” team of Zack Stentz and Ashley Edward Miller.  Nazi Doctor  The scope is wide, in subject matter and geography. The
globetrotting settings ( Russia ,  Argentina ,  Switzerland ,  Poland ,
 England  and the U.S.) would make  James Bond  proud, and the
issues raised vary from the morality of war to the rights of
outcasts.  Bacon plays a Nazi doctor who terrifies Erik as a boy at
Auschwitz. Erik, armed with metal-bending powers, vows revenge
against the doctor, who turns up later as a megalomaniac mutant
named Sebastian Shaw who’s determined to wipe out the human
race.  Charles and Erik originally are allies who recruit other
mutants to stop Shaw. The group includes a government scientist
with giant feet that give him ape-like agility, a former
prisoner who can discharge fiery blasts and a sonic screamer who
can fly. (Later, they become X-Men known as Beast, Havok and
Banshee.)  Jennifer Lawrence  plays Raven, a blue-skinned, shape-
shifting mutant who’s close to Charles, while  January Jones  is
Shaw’s sexy confidante Emma, whose main attributes are abundant
cleavage and the ability to transform her body into a diamond-
like substance.  Rose Byrne’s wily CIA agent has no extraordinary powers,
though she does help rescue the planet.  “X-Men: First Class,” from 20th Century Fox, is playing
across the U.S. Rating: ***  ‘Beautiful Boy’  Michael Sheen cries in the shower. Maria Bello groans in
bed.  In “ Beautiful Boy ,” Sheen and Bello play the grieving,
perplexed parents of a college freshmen who commits a Virginia
Tech-type massacre before killing himself.  It’s a fertile subject for drama -- a similar film, “We
Need to Talk About Kevin,” is coming out later this year -- but
co-writer/director Shawn Ku doesn’t do much with it.  Sheen and Bello are stuck with paper-thin characters and a
script that gives them little to do except look like zombies and
argue over what caused their son -- yes, he was a quiet loner --
to go berserk.  Snacks, Scotch  Cliched moments include Sheen leaving a message on his dead
son’s mobile phone, Bello breaking down in a restaurant and
Sheen lashing out at his colleagues after returning to work too
soon.  The best scene takes place in a motel room where the couple
is taking refuge from the press, which is camped out in front of
their house. Drinking scotch from plastic cups and gorging on
snacks from a vending machine, they share a few laughs as they
desperately try to forget the nightmare their lives have become.  “Beautiful Boy,” from Anchor Bay Films, is playing in  New
York  and  Los Angeles . Rating: **1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 