-- 
Kia Steers U.S. Expansion as Market-Share Gain Leads Industry

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-06-04T00:25:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/kia-pushes-u-s-expansion-as-market-share-gain-leads-industry.html
Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , South Korea’s
second-largest automaker, announced plans this week to raise
output at its Georgia plant by 20 percent, underscoring the U.S.
industry’s biggest market-share gain this year.  Kia, an affiliate of  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , raised its U.S.
share 0.8 percentage point to 3.8 percent through May, topping
gains of 0.7 point for  General Motors Co. (GM)  and 0.6 point for
Hyundai, according to Autodata Corp. The Seoul-based company’s
sales volume has climbed 45 percent this year, the fastest pace
among the 10 largest automakers in the U.S.  “It’s both skill and luck,” said Ed Kim, an analyst at
AutoPacific Inc. in Tustin,  California . “Their latest round of
products is very good. There is also the circumstance that
competitors like Honda and Toyota don’t have as much to sell.
That’s allowing Kia to get a little more attention.”  Kia, Hyundai, GM and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are among those that
have benefited in sales of small and midsize cars as  Japan ’s
March 11 earthquake slowed production for  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
Honda Motor Co. Kia also contends that it has won over customers
in those categories with compelling designs and fuel efficiency.  “In what has been a very vanilla, commodity-driven space,
we’re offering a product that gets good fuel economy and is easy
on the eyes,” Tom Loveless, Kia’s vice president of U.S. sales,
said in an interview yesterday. The midsize  Optima sedan  and
compact  Soul  wagon are standouts in their segments, he said.  Sales of the boxy Soul rose 97 percent through May from a
year earlier, with the biggest volume gain among Kia models.
Optima sales, which have doubled this year, should get an
additional boost after production of the car begins at the West
Point,  Georgia , plant in September, Loveless said.  “We’ve been constrained by supply,” he said.  Plant Expansion  Kia yesterday announced a $100 million expansion of the
Georgia factory that will increase its annual capacity to
360,000 vehicles from 300,000 now.  The plant is moving to three shifts to handle the Optima
along with Kia’s Sorento and Hyundai’s Santa Fe sport-utility
vehicles already built there, said  Randy Jackson , the facility’s
vice president. Kia said the plant, which opened in late 2009,
will add almost 1,000 workers, for a total of more than 3,000.  “We have very aggressive targets,” Jackson said. “We
hope that we can continue growing the way we have been.”  Hyundai, which shares vehicle platforms, engines and a
chairman with Kia, has raised U.S. sales 29 percent this year.
Seoul-based Hyundai is  South Korea ’s largest automaker.  The companies, which operate separately, have sold a
combined 463,648 cars and light trucks in the U.S., behind only
GM, Ford, Toyota, Honda and Chrysler Group LLC this year through
May, according to Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based Autodata. The
combined sales at their growth pace through last month would
give Kia and Hyundai a full-year total of more than 1 million
for the first time.  “For the last few years Hyundai has been getting all the
love,” Kim said. “Now it’s Kia’s turn.”  Kia’s U.S. sales unit is in Irvine, California. The
company’s shares rose 400 won, or 0.6 percent, yesterday to
73,100 won in Korea Stock Exchange trading in Seoul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  