-- 
Kissinger Says Soccer Body Needs ‘Modernization’ to Stop FIFA Corruption

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-06-03T16:32:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/kissinger-says-soccer-body-needs-modernization-to-stop-fifa-corruption.html
Henry Kissinger  said soccer’s
governing body needs to “modernize” to protect the world’s
most-popular sport amid allegations of corruption against some
of its top leaders.  The former U.S. secretary of state said today that he was
considering an invitation to join an investigation of FIFA aimed
at improving the Zurich-based soccer federation that runs the
World Cup.  “There’s been an enormous amount of controversy about FIFA
at a time when the interest in soccer has multiplied around the
world,” Kissinger, 88, said in a telephone interview from  New
York . “Given that soccer is such a beloved game, it’s important
that there’s no doubt in the way it’s being administered.
There’s a need for modernization: that would be my attitude and
approach.”  Sepp Blatter, who was elected this week to his fourth term
as FIFA’s president, is under pressure to reform the
organization. His re-election opponent, Mohamed Bin Hammam,
dropped out after allegations he offered cash to Caribbean
officials for their support. Nine members of FIFA’s 24-member
decision-making panel have been suspended or faced accusations
of impropriety in the last year. Most of the allegations
centered on bidding to host the  World Cup , a quadrennial
tournament that brings in more than $4 billion to FIFA.  Blatter, 75, proposed this week the creation of a
“committee of wise persons” to advise FIFA’s newly formed
corporate governance and compliance unit, and said Kissinger
would be a member.  Cup Bids  Kissinger said he’s worked with FIFA for years as part of
three attempts, including the successful one for 1994, to bring
the world’s most-watched sports tournament to the U.S. He said
he believed Blatter would listen to his advice.  “I would certainly know how to communicate with him, and
the results will be shown by the degree to which our
recommendations are accepted,” Kissinger said.  The scandals have concerned sponsors that pay FIFA $343
million to be associated with the World Cup.  Visa Inc. (V) , the biggest bank-card network, and airline
Emirates joined Coca-Cola Co. and Adidas AG to voice concerns.  Blatter, General Secretary  Jerome Valcke  and FIFA’s
marketing division have spoken to two main sponsors and “not a
single one will withdraw,” Blatter said this week. He was
traveling today and unavailable for comment, a FIFA spokesman
said, declining to give his name in accordance with office
policy.  More Information  FIFA said the organization had approached Kissinger several
weeks ago, and would give more information in “the near
future,” according to an e-mailed statement from the press
office.  Kissinger, a Nobel laureate who served as secretary of
state from 1973 to 1977 under U.S. Presidents Richard M. Nixon
and  Gerald Ford , said he’d tentatively agreed to serve on a
panel to look at FIFA’s corporate governance. Kissinger said
he’s waiting to hear from FIFA about other participants and the
committee’s responsibilities before committing.  Kissinger worked to reform the  International Olympic
Committee  after a bribery scandal that centered on  Salt Lake
City ’s bid for the 2002  Winter Games . Several officials were
expelled and the IOC was forced to strengthen its ethics code
after the effort, which Kissinger said was similar.  Earlier Success  “At that time, it succeeded,” Kissinger said of the IOC
effort. “It took about two years, but some results were
achieved much quicker.”  Blatter said in his election campaign that the governing
body must change after corruption allegations. Two executives in
the selection of the 2018 and 2022 hosts were removed before the
winning votes for Russia and Qatar following a newspaper report
that they had offered to sell their support.  “We will put FIFA’s ship back on the right course in
clear, transparent waters,” Blatter told FIFA delegates after
his re-election. “We will need some time. We cannot do it from
one day to the next.”  Kissinger worked on the U.S.’s failed bid for the 2022
World Cup. He also chaired the advisory panel for the 1994 World
Cup, which the U.S. hosted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  