-- 
N.Z. Researchers See 23% Chance of Another Big Canterbury Quake

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-06-03T04:10:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/n-z-researchers-see-23-chance-of-another-big-canterbury-quake.html
New Zealand researchers said there is
a 23 percent chance of another magnitude 6 to 7 earthquake in
the Canterbury province over the next 12 months.  The chance of a temblor of such size striking the South
Island’s biggest city, Christchurch, is 6 percent, officials
said in a  statement  posted on the Canterbury Earthquake Recovery
Authority website today. Seismic surveys have revealed some
previously unknown fault structures that might generate quakes
of this size, the researchers said.  Christchurch was devastated by a magnitude 6.3 temblor
centered 10 kilometers (6.2 miles) away on Feb. 22 that killed
more than 180 people, while a magnitude 7 quake on Sept. 4
damaged property and infrastructure in the city and surrounding
districts. Demolition and recovery has been hindered by
aftershocks in a  region  that hadn’t experienced a similar event
in 80 years.  “Cantabrians live in a seismically active area and finding
previously unknown faults that seem to have very long intervals
between rupture won’t have significantly increased the level of
earthquake hazard in the region,” University of Canterbury
Professor Jarg Pettinga said in the statement.  Researchers came from the universities of Canterbury, Otago
and Calgary as well as the government’s Institute of Geological
and Nuclear Sciences and the  National Institute of Water &
Atmospheric Research .  There are also younger structures that potentially could
reactivate older faults, including an offshore one that is 25
kilometers long -- similar to the fault that caused the
September quake, NIWA scientist Philip Barnes said.  Still, there is no evidence that aftershocks are moving
offshore or could trigger the faults under the seabed, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  