-- 
Newell Rubbermaid Sinks Most Since 2008 After Slashing Profit Forecast

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-06-03T20:10:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/newell-rubbermaid-cuts-2011-profit-forecast-on-consumer-spending-slowdown.html
Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (NWL) , the maker of
Rubbermaid containers, sank the most since 2008 after cutting
its full-year profit forecast on slumping consumer spending.  Per-share profit, excluding costs for restructuring and
other items, will be at least $1.60, down from a projection of
at least $1.67, the Atlanta-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts on average anticipated $1.69, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  Some of Newell’s larger retail customers have lowered
expectations for U.S. growth as  consumer confidence  weakens,
said Chief Executive Officer Mark Ketchum. More than two-thirds
of Newell’s sales come from the U.S., where persistent
joblessness and surging prices for food and gas have forced
shoppers to watch their wallets.  “High unemployment and rising gas prices are putting a
damper on the consumer and that’s flowing through to sales of
these products,”  Giri Cherukuri , who helps manage $2.8 billion,
including Newell shares, for Oakbrook Investments in Lisle,
Illinois. “The economy is weak in general.”  Newell tumbled $2, or 12 percent, to $14.97 at 4:01 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. That was the biggest
drop since Dec. 17, 2008.  The company lowered its growth forecast for sales,
excluding foreign currency fluctuations, to 3 percent to 4
percent. That’s down a percentage point from a previous estimate
April 29.  “Persistent softness in the U.S. economy and increased
inflationary pressure have caused us to revise our outlook for
the balance of the year,” Ketchum said in the statement.  Kimberly-Clark  Other consumer-goods makers have noted that consumers are
paring spending. Mothers are buying products in smaller packages
at the end of the month to stretch their budgets, Thomas Falk,
CEO of  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) , told a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
conference in New York yesterday. The Dallas-based company makes
Kleenex tissue and Huggies diapers.  Rising gasoline prices and unemployment have curbed
spending by customers of  Dollar General Corp. (DG) , the largest U.S.
dollar-store chain.  “Customers today are experiencing more uncertainty,” CEO
Rick Dreiling told analysts this week.  Consumer sentiment unexpectedly decreased in May to the
lowest level in six months as Americans grew concerned over the
outlook for jobs and the economy, according to the Conference
Board, a New York-based private research group. Its confidence
index dropped to 60.8 percent from a revised 66 reading in
April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro,  North Carolina , at   cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello in New York at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 