-- 
NFL Owners Take Fight Over Order to Lift Lockout to Federal Appeals Court

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   J o e   W h i t t i n g t o n
-- 
2011-06-03T17:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/nfl-owners-take-fight-over-lifted-lckout-order-to-appeals-court.html
National Football League  lawyers
asked a U.S. appeals court to reverse a judge’s order directing
them to end their player lockout.  Team owners blocked player access to coaching staffs,
trainers and practice facilities on March 12 after collective
bargaining talks collapsed. Players disavowed their union and
sued the NFL for allegedly violating U.S. antitrust laws.  U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson in St. Paul,
 Minnesota , ordered an end to the lockout on April 25, saying it
would probably cause the players irreparable harm. The NFL won a
temporary stay of Nelson’s order and wants a three-judge
appellate panel in  St. Louis  to overturn it.  “This is a labor dispute, not an antitrust problem,” Paul D. Clement, a lawyer for the owners, told the panel today. When
asked about Nelson’s finding on irreparable harm, he said, “We
hear from some players saying, ‘this is the best summer I’ve
had.”  The lawsuit runs counter to federal labor law and the
dispute shouldn’t be decided in the courts, Clement said. NFL
attorneys have argued that the issues should be resolved before
the  National Labor Relations Board .  Both sides are exempt from federal antitrust laws so long
as they are engaged in collective bargaining. The players say
talks had already failed before their decision to disband the
union freed them to pursue antitrust litigation.  ‘Perfectly Happy’  “The players did not want to be in the union anymore,”
 Theodore Olson , a lawyer for the players, told the court. “The
players are perfectly happy with antitrust protection.”  Olson preceded Clement as U.S. Solicitor General, the
federal government’s top litigator, under President George W. Bush.  The 32-team league, based in  New York , is the richest U.S.
pro sports league with annual revenue of about $9 billion.
Players and owners dispute how to divide that money. They also
disagree over a rookie salary cap, expanding the regular season
to 18 games from 16 and health care.  Ten players, led by Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady , Drew Brees and Peyton Manning, sued the NFL on March 11
alleging that league owners engage in anticompetitive practices.  Several players, including plaintiff Osi Umenyiora of the
 New York Giants , Cullen Jenkins of the  Green Bay Packers  and
Steve Smith of the  Carolina Panthers , attended today’s court
hearing.  Confidential Talks  Players and team owners held talks during the lawsuit,
mediated by U.S. Magistrate Judge Arthur Boylan in Minneapolis,
with the last publicly announced discussions on May 17. In a
joint statement yesterday, the parties said they had been
meeting confidentially with Boylan. They declined to reveal any
additional details.  Those meetings, which involved Giants owner John Mara,
Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones and New England Patriots owner
Robert Kraft, took place over three days at a site near Chicago,
the  Associated Press  reported, citing sources who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks were secret.  In the appeal, players associations from the top U.S.
baseball, basketball and hockey leagues filed a brief supporting
the football players.  “The sound application of the antitrust laws in markets
for professional athletes’ services is critical in all major
sports leagues,” the associations said in a May 20 filing.  National Hockey League owners submitted a brief backing the
NFL owners, asserting that under U.S. Supreme Court precedent,
antitrust laws shouldn’t be used to interfere with the
collective bargaining process.  The lower court case is Brady v. National Football League,
11-cv-639, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota ( St.
Paul ). The appellate case is Brady v. National Football League,
11-1898, 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (St. Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Whittington in St. Louis federal court at 
8552 or  joethewhitt@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  