-- 
Nokia Breakup Worth 52% Gain to Battered Shareholders: Real M&A

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f ,   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-03T21:33:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/nokia-breakup-worth-52-gain-to-battered-shareholders-real-m-a.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s largest
mobile-phone maker, has destroyed so much  shareholder value  that
it may be worth 52 percent more if sold and broken into pieces.  The Espoo, Finland-based company, once worth almost $300
billion, has seen its market value tumble 77 percent to $25.6
billion yesterday since  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  introduced the iPhone in June
2007. Including net cash, Nokia is cheaper than its 10 biggest
rivals based on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  By separating its mobile phone, infrastructure equipment
and mapping software businesses and accounting for its patents,
Nokia could be worth $39 billion, based on the valuations of
comparable companies, the data show. While Nokia cut its revenue
forecast at its mobile-phone unit and may earn less this year
than any time in almost two decades, sales of its assets could
attract companies from Microsoft Corp. to Samsung Electronics Co.
and  HTC Corp. (2498) , according to Jefferies Group Inc.  “It’s a classic situation where the parts are worth more
than the whole,” said  Matt McCormick , a  money manager  at
Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which oversees $3.6 billion.
“The clock is ticking. Nokia is a good brand, but it’s a tired
brand and they need to come up with something. They are going to
be a strong candidate for a takeover.”  Laurie Armstrong, a spokeswoman for Nokia, said in an e-
mail it won’t comment on “rumor or speculation.” Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft’s Melissa Havel declined to comment.  ‘Groundless’  Nam Ki-yung, a spokesman for Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung, said in an e-mailed statement that speculation about an
acquisition is “groundless.” Keith Nowak, a spokesman for
Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC, said the company couldn’t comment.  Nokia this week scrapped its full-year sales and margin
forecasts for handsets and services, and said revenue at the
unit would fall “substantially” short of its projected range
this quarter.  The stock slumped 18 percent to a 13-year low on May 31,
exceeding the 14 percent slide on Feb. 11, when Nokia announced
a deal to adopt Microsoft’s Windows platform after determining
that its own Symbian system couldn’t keep up with Apple’s iOS
and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android. Nokia’s share of the smartphone
market fell to 25 percent in the first quarter of 2011,
according to Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner Inc.  Shares Slump  Nokia fell 4.9 percent to 4.48 euros, cutting the company’s
market value to 16.8 billion euros ($24.6 billion). That
compares to a market value of $316 billion for Apple and about
$35 billion for HTC, which makes handsets using Android and
Microsoft operating systems.  The shares had retreated 39 percent this year before today.
Including net cash, Nokia is valued at 3.45 times its Ebitda in
the past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
cheaper than the 10 biggest communications equipment providers
by market value globally, which trade at a median multiple of
8.7 times. HTC is valued at 15.9 times.  “There have to be some players thinking about Nokia,”
said Michael Mahoney, senior managing director and portfolio
manager at Falcon Point Capital LLC in  San Francisco . “This is
the point to look at Nokia very seriously.”  In a breakup, Nokia’s three units may be worth about 21.9
billion euros, based on the sales multiples of its competitors
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The breakup value
may not include Nokia’s patents, which Tero Kuittinen, an
analyst with MKM Partners LP, estimates are worth 5 billion
euros. That would bring the total to 26.9 billion euros.  Nokia also has about 6.4 billion euros more in cash than
debt, the data show.  Relative Value  Based on analysts’ projections for 40 billion euros in
revenue in 2011 and using each unit’s historical rate of growth
in the past two years, Nokia’s mobile-phone division may have
26.7 billion euros in sales, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The business would then be worth 14.4 billion euros based
on Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc.’s multiple of 0.54 times revenue this year, the data show.  Nokia’s infrastructure equipment unit, which may have sales
of 11.6 billion euros this year, would be valued at 6 billion
euros using Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent SA’s 0.52 times valuation.
The Navteq maps unit, Nokia’s only division to boost revenue
since 2008, may be worth about 1.5 billion euros based on
Amsterdam-based  TomTom NV (TOM2) ’s price of 0.84 times sales.  Samsung and HTC are among the companies that would
potentially be interested in Nokia’s handset business for its
market share, according to  Lee Simpson , an analyst at Jefferies
in  London  who has an “underperform” rating on Nokia’s stock.  Huawei, ZTE  Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (000063)  may also be
interested in buying Nokia’s assets, he said. Both companies are
based in Shenzhen. William Plummer, a spokesman for Huawei,
declined to comment on “speculation or rumors.” ZTE’s Mitchell
Peterson didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Michael Mullaney, who helps manage $9.5 billion at
Fiduciary Trust in  Boston , said splitting up Nokia won’t change
the fact that it’s still a “value trap” because it hasn’t
found a way to compete against the iPhone and Android.  Nokia is also unlikely to attract any buyers now because
the shares have further to fall, according to American Century
Investments’ Michael Liss.  “It’s hard to do a sum-of-the-parts analysis when the
floor is falling out and you don’t know where the bottom is,”
said Liss, a  Kansas City , Missouri-based  fund manager  at
American Century, which oversees $109 billion. “The stock has
quite a ways to go before” someone makes an offer, he said.  ‘Baseless’  Nokia Chief Executive Stephen Elop said this week
speculation that Microsoft agreed to buy his company’s mobile-
phone unit for $19 billion is “baseless,” denying a post by
the Boy Genius Report website that cited blogger Eldar Murtazin.  Elop has never discussed an acquisition with Microsoft, he
said in an interview. “We have a great plan for our future, and
we’re focused on executing that plan,” he said. “The rumors
are all over the place. There’s no basis for them.”  For Nokia’s shareholders, finding a buyer may be the
company’s best option to prevent further losses, according to
 Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion as chairman
of Holland & Co. in  New York .  “Over the past few years, when companies have decided to
divvy up parts of the company, the market has responded
positively and it has been good for shareholders,” he said.
“It has to be something people are considering given the nature
of the decline in Nokia’s price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at +1-212-617-7884 or  pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 