-- 
Obama Invites Boehner for Golfing Summit as Talks on U.S. Spending Drag On

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-06-04T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/obama-invites-boehner-for-golf-summit-amid-debate-over-u-s-s-debt-ceiling.html
With Democrats and Republicans still
at odds over federal spending and the national debt, President
 Barack Obama  and U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  will have a
summit on the golf course.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican who earlier this week began
pressing Obama to get more directly involved in the budget
negotiations, has accepted the invitation for the June 18 round,
said his spokesman, Brendan Buck.  Neither Buck nor a White House official who confirmed the
invitation on condition of anonymity would say where the game
would be played or whether they’ll mix business with pleasure.  Obama and Boehner both are avid golfers. Obama has played
more than 60 rounds since taking office, usually with members of
his staff or administration officials.  “This is about building a relationship, you ride around in
a cart so they’ll be together a lot,” said former
Representative Martin Frost, a Texas Democrat who said he played
the most golf when he was chairman of the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee. “So many politicians golf
because it’s four hours away from everyone else and something
you can play when you’re older.”  Boehner’s a very good golfer, Frost said. “The question
is, is he going to spot the president some strokes?”  Biden Talks  Vice President  Joe Biden  has been leading talks with
representatives from both parties on steps to cutting the
nation’s long-term deficits and raising the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling by Aug. 2. Still, both sides have publicly
stuck to their positions and given little indication that
they’ve moved closer. A major dispute concerns Republican
insistence that no new taxes be part of any agreement, while
Democrats say increased revenue has to accompany spending cuts.  At a news conference yesterday in Washington, Boehner said
that if the president wants to get an agreement by the end of
this month “it’s time for him to step up and take a more active
role.”  Obama and Boehner hashed out the final details of an
agreement on the 2011 federal budget face-to-face at the White
House in April, agreeing to about $38.5 billion in reductions
with just hours to spare before a government shutdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  