-- 
Obama’s Toughest Re-Election Challenge May Come From Economy

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-06-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/obama-s-toughest-re-election-challenge-may-come-from-dearth-of-u-s-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama  is facing a
rising threat from potentially his toughest re-election
opponent: the American economy.  The Labor Department reported yesterday that job growth
slowed to 54,000 in May, down from 232,000 in April and the
smallest gain in eight months. The unemployment rate rose to 9.1
percent, the highest level this year.  “If  job creation  doesn’t continue on the pace it’s been on
in recent months, that’s going to be an enormous hurdle for the
president,” said Tad Devine, a Democratic strategist who worked
for the party’s 2000 and 2004 presidential nominees.  The jobs report was the latest economic indicator
suggesting the nation’s recovery from the worst recession since
the 1930s has hit a soft patch as Obama’s 2012 campaign
organization gets geared up and Republican candidates line up to
vie for their party’s presidential nomination.  U.S. consumer spending slowed in the first quarter of the
year and confidence levels have since fallen. Manufacturing
growth, a consistent contributor to the recovery, weakened
across the globe in May. The S&P/Case-Shiller Index released May
31 showed U.S. home prices in March dropped to the lowest level
since 2003, further eroding  home equity  available to Americans.  “It highlights the tenuous nature of things,” said  Mark Zandi , chief economist for Moody’s Analytics in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . “Everybody has been through so much it really
doesn’t take much to push people over the proverbial edge.”  Trimming Forecasts  Over the past two weeks, private economists at firms such
as J.P. Morgan, Goldman Sachs and Macroeconomic Advisers cut
their forecasts for economic growth in the current quarter.
Zandi, who began the second quarter forecasting a 3.7 percent
growth rate for the period, has trimmed his estimate to 2.2
percent.  The 1.8 percent growth rate in the first quarter, a decline
from 3.1 percent the prior quarter, also came in below
forecasters’ estimates.  Obama hasn’t suffered in the polls so far. Gallup’s daily
tracking poll showed him with an average 51 percent job approval
May 31 through June 2. It has climbed from 41 percent in mid-
April, following the killing of  Osama bin Laden  and an easing of
gasoline prices.  Potential Republican candidates for the White House are
making the economy an issue. Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt
Romney , who formally announced his candidacy for the Republican
nomination this week, said yesterday in  New Hampshire  that the
number of people out of work is “simply inexcusable.”  “The Obama policies have failed America,” he said.  Stocks Down  Investor concern over the economy has sent stocks down,
extending the longest streak of weekly losses for the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  since 2004, while Treasuries rose.  The Dow lost 97.29 points, or 0.8 percent, to 12,151.26 at
4 p.m. in  New York , adding to its fifth straight weekly loss.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1 percent. The euro
strengthened 1 percent to $1.4637 as the Dollar Index slumped
0.8 percent to 73.714. Treasuries rose, pushing yields on two-
year notes to a seven-month low of 0.41 percent.  The current ebb parallels the movement of the  U.S. economy 
last year, when payrolls grew by an average of more than 300,000
from March through May only to slow down and start shedding jobs
in the wake of the European debt crisis. Growth picked up again
in October. Zandi is among the forecasters who say the recovery
likely will strengthen again in the second half of 2011.  ‘Bumps on the Road’  Obama, speaking yesterday at a Chrysler Group LLC plant in
Toledo,  Ohio , said “there are always going to be some bumps on
the road to recovery.”  “This economy took a big hit,” Obama told auto workers
hours after the jobs numbers were released. “It’s taking a
while to mend.”  Slowing growth would at least temporarily cut into the pace
of employment gains in an economy that still has a long way to
go in digging out from the recession. Only 1.8 million of the
more than 8.7 million jobs lost since January 2008 have been
regained.  Even before the recent series of negative indicators,
forecasters predicted Obama would face a challenging economic
climate for re-election. The  unemployment rate  in the final
quarter of 2012 was expected to be 7.9 percent, according to the
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey taken May 2
through 12. Zandi said he expects the Election Day unemployment
rate to be “north of 8 percent.”  Reagan’s Victory  Ronald Reagan , who faced an unemployment rate of 7.2
percent on Election Day in 1984, was the only U.S. president to
win re-election with a jobless rate above 6 percent since World
War II.  A soft recovery also increases the challenge to Obama’s
message that the nation is on a positive trajectory. The White
House has distilled the theme into the catchphrase “Win the
Future.”  Devine said the credibility of Obama’s view of the path
forward -- more than a specific jobless rate -- will be the most
important ingredient in his re-election campaign.  “Voters will make choices on how they feel the candidate
will affect their future,” Devine said. “I don’t think there’s
a magic number for unemployment.”  Reagan won 49 states against Democrat Walter Mondale with
an unemployment rate that was “really high at the time”
because “people believed he had the nation headed in the right
direction,” he said.  Public Pessimism  The public right now is pessimistic. The proportion of
Americans who believe they will be better off in 10 years
dropped from 72 percent in 2009 to 54 percent this year,
according to a survey by the  Pew Economic Mobility Project .  Fewer than half of Americans now believe their children
will enjoy a higher standard of living, a centerpiece of the
traditional American Dream, the March poll found. That’s down
from 62 percent who thought so in 2009.  “The danger is that if we continue to take two steps
forward, two steps back, people are going to continue to suffer
a high level of economic anxiety,” said Bill Carrick, a
Democratic strategist. “There’s no way that can be good
politically for the president.”  Even during months when net job gains have been stronger,
the labor market has been slow. Typically jobs churn with
millions of new employees hired every month during recessions as
well as boom times.  Layoffs and Hiring  Layoffs in March, the last month for which data is
available, were at 1.6 million, the lowest since the Labor
Department began keeping data in 2001. Hiring has been subdued
for an expansion, reaching 4 million new employees that month,
lower than the depths of the nation’s 2001 recession.  The result is that while workers with jobs face less danger
of losing them, it remains hard for people who were thrown out
of work or are looking for a job after graduation, said Heidi Shierholz, a labor economist at the  Economic Policy Institute  in
 Washington .  That lack of movement also has ramifications for people who
are looking to advance. Through 2008, an average of more than
2.7 million workers quit their jobs every month, often to go on
to better positions. On average, 1 million fewer workers have
quit their jobs each month of the Obama presidency, for a
cumulative total of 27 million through March.  “It represents a lot of lost opportunities: higher wages,
a better skills or interests match, a better commute, all the
millions of reasons people quit to take a new job,” Shierholz
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 