-- 
Obama Said to Delay Budget Review to Late Summer as Negotiations Continue

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-06-03T20:15:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/obama-said-to-delay-budget-review-to-late-summer-as-negotiations-continue.html
President  Barack Obama  is delaying
the annual mid-year White House review of economic and deficit
forecasts as his administration continues negotiations with
Congress on a long-term debt-reduction plan, an administration
official said.  The review, typically released in July, will be put out
later this summer, the official said on condition of anonymity
to discuss the matter. Talks between the administration and
congressional leaders on cutting the deficit as well as the
series of negotiations over spending levels for this year that
continued into April prompted the delay, the official said.  The report is an update on how the White House views the
economy compared with its forecast delivered in February. At
that time, the Obama administration forecast gross domestic
product will increase 2.7 percent this year, compared with the
3.6 percent growth it predicted in its 2010 mid-year review. It
said the economy next year will expand 3.6 percent.  The  unemployment rate  was forecast to average 9.3 percent
this year and 8.6 percent next year.  A series of recent economic reports suggest the economic
recovery has hit a soft patch. Over the past two weeks, private
economists at firms such as J.P. Morgan, Goldman Sachs and
Macroeconomic Advisers cut their forecasts for economic growth
in the current quarter.  Jobs Report  Job growth slowed to 54,000 in May, down from 232,000 in
April and the smallest gain in eight months, the Labor
Department reported today. The unemployment rate rose to 9.1
percent, the highest level this year.  U.S. consumer spending slowed in the first quarter of the
year and confidence levels have since fallen. Manufacturing
growth, a consistent contributor to the recovery, weakened
across the globe in May. The S&P/Case-Shiller Index released May
31 showed U.S. home prices in March dropped to the lowest level
since 2003, further eroding  home equity  available to Americans.  The 1.8 percent growth rate in the first quarter, a decline
from 3.1 percent the prior quarter, also came in below
forecasters’ estimates.  The state of the economy will be a central issue for Obama
as he seeks re-election in 2012.  ‘Tough Times’  “Even though the economy is growing, even though it’s
created more than 2 million jobs over the past 15 months, we
still face some tough times,” Obama said today in Toledo,  Ohio ,
where he spoke to workers at a Chrysler Group LLC plant.  The administration has been negotiating with Republicans,
who control the House, over cutting the federal government’s
long-term deficit as well as effort to raise the legal debt
ceiling. There have been four meetings between Vice President
 Joe Biden  and six congressional leaders, with the next one set
for June 9.  The urgency to reach agreement increased yesterday after
Moody’s said it may put the U.S. government debt rating on
review for a downgrade if no progress is made on raising the
$14.3 trillion debt ceiling by mid-July.  In 2009, Obama delayed the review by one month, citing his
first year in office. The official said the review has been
postponed approximately 16 times in the past 38 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  