-- 
Obama Said to Consider Adding Worker Aid to Trade Measure

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-06-03T14:49:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/obama-said-to-consider-adding-unemployment-aid-to-free-trade-agreements.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration is weighing whether to add provisions renewing
aid for unemployed workers to legislation for free-trade
agreements with  South Korea ,  Colombia  and  Panama , according to
people familiar with the matter.  Republicans in Congress have objected to renewing an
expansion of Trade Adjustment Assistance and said Obama
shouldn’t link the trade deals to that aid. Inserting the
provisions in implementing legislation for one or more trade
accords would force Congress to extend the aid or reject the
agreements under fast-track procedures that guarantee an up-or-
down vote on such trade measures.  “The administration would rather work out a deal, but this
is a possibility,” Greg Mastel, a former Democratic trade
counsel to the Senate Finance Committee who is a lobbyist at
Dutko Worldwide in  Washington , said in an interview yesterday.
Lawmakers would “have the choice of accepting it or effectively
killing the bill.”  A decision on whether to include the aid depends on
negotiations between administration officials and congressional
staff members over the next two weeks, according to the people,
who spoke on the condition of anonymity in order to describe
private conversations with legislative aides and U.S. trade
officials.  “If necessary, that’s an option,” Representative Sander
Levin of  Michigan , the top Democrat on the House Ways and Means
Committee, said today at an event in Washington. Unemployment
figures, reported today at 9.1 percent for May, “show the need
to act,” he said.  The U.S. Trade Representative’s office had no comment on
the administration’s plans, spokeswoman  Carol Guthrie  said.  Health, Unemployment Aid  The trade-assistance program augments health and
unemployment benefits to workers who lose their jobs because of
competition from overseas competition. As part of the stimulus
bill in 2009, it was expanded to include service workers such as
call-center employees, who accounted for more than half of the
280,000 people helped in 2009, according to data from the Labor
Department. Those added benefits expired in February.  Obama reworked free-trade agreements his predecessor,
 George W. Bush , made with South Korea, Panama and Colombia to
respond to concerns among Democrats about matters such as labor
rights.  Now the administration says it wants the deals approved by
Congress in the next few months. Before it will submit the free-
trade agreements, it wants Republicans in Congress to agree to
reinstate the broad worker aid program.  ‘Robust Renewal’  “We want to make it clear that movement forward on the
pending FTAs must be accompanied by a robust renewal of trade
adjustment assistance,” U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk told
reporters on May 16. Democrats such as Senate Finance Committee
Chairman  Max Baucus  of  Montana  say they agree.  Senator  Orrin Hatch , the top Republican on that committee,
and colleagues in his party say they oppose the expanded Trade
Adjustment Assistance because the $7 billion price over the next
decade is too high.  “Senator Hatch believes TAA should be dealt with on its
own merits,” Julia Lawless, his spokeswoman, said yesterday
when asked about its possible insertion in the free-trade
agreements.  Legislation to implement the three trade bills is covered
by fast-track protection, which guarantees that once they are
submitted to Congress by the president they can’t be amended and
must receive up-or-down votes.  ‘Necessary, Appropriate’  Only items that are “necessary or appropriate” to carry
out the trade agreements can be included in that legislation,
which may give Republicans grounds to challenge inclusion of the
trade assistance program.  What is “necessary or appropriate” can be elastic. The
 North American Free Trade Agreement  in 1993 included trade-
adjustment assistance for any workers affected by that deal,
according to Mastel.  The Korea legislation will have to include changes to
automobile tariffs and rules that the Obama administration
negotiated in December, which is similar to what happened in
Nafta for supplemental provisions on labor and the environment,
according to a report by the  Congressional Research Service  in
December 2010.  Politically, the calculation the Obama administration must
make is whether it’s willing to risk the free-trade agreements
by including the workers’ aid.  ‘Obvious Risk’  “If the administration does it without the agreement of
the Republicans, then it runs the obvious risk that the House
will strip it out of the implementing bill” and that could
complicate getting the measure passed in the Senate, said
Timothy Keeler, a lawyer at Mayer Brown LLP in Washington and
the former chief of staff of the U.S. Trade Representative’s
office.  Business groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have
joined with Democrats in pushing for renewal of the trade-
adjustment program.  “We urge Congress and the administration to find a way
forward to ensure that the  United States  has in place an
effective TAA program to support U.S. global economic
engagement,” the Chamber and 17 other groups wrote in a letter
to congressional leaders on May 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  