-- 
Obama Campaigns to Gain Car Industry Bailout Credit at Ohio Chrysler Plant

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-06-03T12:42:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/obama-campaigns-to-gain-bailout-credit-at-ohio-chrysler-plant.html
As President  Barack Obama  tours a
Chrysler Group LLC assembly line in Ohio today, gaining
political credit for the automobile industry’s government-aided
turnaround may be as challenging as returning U.S. carmakers to
profitability.  Obama’s trip to a Toledo plant that assembles Jeep
Wranglers follows a week of White House publicity about the
automotive revival, including a May 28 radio address by Vice
President  Joe Biden  and a June 1 White House report saying $80
billion of federal aid for Chrysler and  General Motors Co. (GM)  saved
at least 1 million jobs at automakers and their suppliers.  The president also will have some good news to deliver for
taxpayers:  Fiat SpA (F)  and the U.S. Treasury Department announced
last night that they have reached an agreement for the Italian
auto company to buy the government’s remaining 6 percent stake
in Chrysler for $500 million.  Obama’s task is to persuade voters that, while recovery has
been slow in coming, the recession would have been far worse
without government action to keep GM and Chrysler in business,
said  Steven Rattner , the former head of the president’s
automotive task force.  “It’s very hard to convince people of what would have
happened if you didn’t do something,” Rattner said. “People
hate bailouts. They are angry about a lot of things and it’s a
knee-jerk reaction, without a substantive foundation.”  Jobs Created  Making his 14th trip as president to Ohio, a battleground
state that has backed every winning presidential candidate since
1964, Obama will point to the creation of 115,000 auto industry
jobs since GM and Chrysler left bankruptcy and rising market
shares at GM and Chrysler.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , which didn’t take a
federal bailout, posted its biggest annual profit in more than a
decade.  Ohio ’s jobless rate was 8.6 percent in April, compared with
a national rate of 9.1 percent in May. Next door in Michigan,
10.2 percent unemployment reflects a drop of almost 4 percentage
points since September 2009. The Labor Department today said
payrolls increased by a less-than-projected 54,000 in May, the
smallest number of new workers in eight months.  Obama will stress that the auto industry accounts for only
a portion of 250,000 new manufacturing jobs since December 2009,
 Ron Bloom , the White House adviser for manufacturing policy,
said at a briefing.  “The automobile industry is a story of manufacturing, but
there’s a broader manufacturing story as well that we think
needs to be brought to attention,” he said. While the future
isn’t guaranteed, federal aid for GM and Chrysler gave the U.S.
 auto industry  a “real chance of success,” Bloom said.  Republicans say the federal aid was unnecessary government
involvement in private industry.  ‘Nothing to Celebrate’  “The administration’s auto bailout is nothing to
celebrate,” said Brendan Buck, a spokesman for House Speaker
 John Boehner , an Ohio Republican. “There were better options
that could have saved jobs for these workers. The model the
White House should be touting is Ford, which, instead of relying
on a taxpayer-funded bailout, saw trouble coming and made the
tough decisions necessary to preserve jobs and weather the
storm.”  “Unemployed workers in Ohio aren’t looking for a
presidential victory lap, they need jobs,” Kevin DeWine, the
chairman of the Ohio Republican Party, said in a statement.  In Toledo, where GM last week said it would add 200 jobs,
the economy is on the mend, Mayor Michael Bell said. The
 Bloomberg Toledo Index (BTOHX)  of 33 companies, designed to measure the
local economy, has risen 11.5 percent in the past year.  “Toledo is on the upswing,” Bell said. “Are we still
hurting? Yeah, but we are a little bit better off than a couple
of years ago.”  Employment Doubled  Transportation-equipment manufacturing employment in
metropolitan Toledo has more than doubled to 8,200 from 3,400 in
June 2009, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. As
recently as June 2008, transportation equipment jobs topped
11,000.  For Obama to win Ohio next year, more job gains are likely
needed, said Bell, who ran as an independent. “In the city of
Toledo, he’d probably still be OK,” he said. “As far as the
rest of Ohio, if you get too much past 7 percent, he may have an
issue.”  The White House’s June 1 report on the auto industry
highlighted employment at plants in Ohio, Indiana and  Michigan  -
- battleground states that Obama carried in 2008 and that will
be important to his re-election chances in 2012.  At Chrysler, where the Toledo plant produces 200,000 cars a
year, U.S. market share rose to 10.9 percent last month from 8.5
percent in May 2009, when the automaker was under bankruptcy-
court protection, according to Autodata Corp., an industry
researcher based in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey .  ‘Well On Their Way’  Altogether, Chrysler has added almost 6,000 jobs since
leaving bankruptcy,  Shawn Morgan , a company spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail.  “They’re not out of the woods yet, but they are certainly
well on their way to recovery,”  Rebecca Lindland , an industry
analyst with IHS Automotive, said in a telephone interview.
Chrysler probably wouldn’t have survived without the bailout,
she said. “We definitely would’ve had a significant failure had
they not bailed them out.”  The government so far has gotten back about $40 billion of
the $80 billion taxpayers provided to stabilize the auto
industry, according to the June 1 White House report. Bloom said
that losses ultimately will be about $14 billion, down from $48
billion forecast in 2009, citing a Congressional Budget Office
report.  Loans Repaid  Chrysler Group LLC on May 24 announced that it has repaid
$7.6 billion in U.S. and Canadian government loans. As part of
its agreement with Treasury, Fiat is also purchasing, for $75
million, the right to buy all of the shares in the Auburn Hill,
Michigan-based automaker retained by the United Auto Workers
retiree trust. The Treasury will receive 80 percent of those
proceeds, or $60 million, with the remaining $15 million going
to the government of  Canada .  After Detroit-based GM’s initial public offering last
November, the U.S. sold almost half of its GM common equity. The
U.S. government now owns 33 percent of GM’s outstanding shares.  Since GM’s IPO at $33 a share, the stock has fallen more
than 10 percent to $29.60.  Chrysler last month posted a first-quarter net profit of
$116 million, its first since bankruptcy, and global sales
during that period increased by 18 percent. GM reported its
fifth straight quarterly profit as U.S. sales climbed 25 percent
in the first quarter.  “Without the bailout, the auto industry would only be a
shadow of what it is today,” said  Mark Zandi , chief economist
at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , who
said he hasn’t done an in-depth analysis of the bailout. “It
would have cost the economy tens of thousands of jobs in the
industry and many other industries that depend on the auto
industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  