-- 
Fukushima Plant Water Has More Radiation Than Released Into Atmosphere

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 
2011-06-03T06:25:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/tokyo-electric-says-contaminated-water-at-fukushima-rises-1-.html
The water level in basements and
trenches at  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima plant rose and
may contain more radiation than is known to have been released
into the atmosphere in the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  The amount of contaminated water rose to about 105 million
liters (28 million gallons) from 100 million liters on May 18,
and may start overflowing after June 20, the company known as
Tepco said in a statement today. Radiation in the water is
estimated at 720,000 terabecquerels, general manager Junichi Matsumoto said at a media briefing in Tokyo.  Tepco has pumped millions of liters of water to cool three
reactors that melted down at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi station
after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out power and
backup generators, crippling its cooling systems. With  Japan ’s
rainy season in full swing, heavy downpours threaten to flood
the plant and leak more radiation into the sea, soil and air.  “The risk of overflow is as serious as the meltdown of
reactor fuel rods that’s already happened,” Tetsuo Ito, the
head of the Atomic Energy Research Institute at Kinki University
in western Japan, said in a phone interview. “Tepco should’ve
acknowledged this risk weeks ago and could’ve taken any urgent
measures.”  A water de-contamination unit being built at the plant will
start operating after June 15 and an underground tank capable of
holding 10 million liters will be ready by the middle of August,
Tepco said in today’s statement.  Radiation in Atmosphere  Tepco shares fell 6.2 percent today to 286 yen, the lowest
level since at least September 1974. The stock has fallen 87
percent since the day before the quake, erasing 3 trillion yen
($37 billion) of the company’s market value.  Much of the water poured into reactors and spent-fuel pools
has overflowed or leaked into basements, connecting tunnels and
services trenches at the plant, which has six reactors housed in
separate building.  Japan’s Nuclear Safety Commission said on April 12 an
estimated 630,000 terabecquerels of radiation had been released
into the atmosphere. The country’s government the same day
raised the severity rating of the nuclear crisis to the highest
level on an international scale.  The government aims to release the latest radiation data
early next week, Goshi Hosono, a special adviser to Japanese
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , said on June 1.  Failure of cooling systems for reactors and water pools
storing spent fuel rods led to explosions and fires at the
Fukushima plant, causing radiation leaks that forced the
evacuation of more than 50,000 households and contaminated
drinking water and food.  Japan’s government halted shipments of tea from four
prefectures near Tokyo after detecting radioactive cesium that
exceeded regulatory limits, the Yomiuri newspaper reported
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net 
undefined
undefined
-0- Jun/03/ :09 GMT
undefinedundefined
-0- Jun/03/ :25 GMT 