-- 
ONGC Plans Joint Bids for Overseas Energy Assets to Fend off China Rivals

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-06-03T04:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/ongc-plans-joint-bids-for-overseas-energy-assets-to-fend-off-china-rivals.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. and  Oil India
Ltd. (OINL)  plan to bid jointly with other Indian state-run explorers
and refiners to acquire assets overseas to compete with Chinese
rivals as rising oil prices increase valuations.  “Oil assets around the world are getting expensive as
crude prices increase and for us it makes sense to pool in
money,” A.K. Hazarika, chairman of ONGC, India’s biggest energy
explorer, said by telephone. “Bidding jointly helps us
distribute risks and increases our chances of winning.”  State-run explorers and refiners had 381 billion rupees
($8.5 billion) of cash and reserves that they can pool and bid
for assets from Russia to  Canada , according to Bloomberg
calculations based on company data as of March 31. Chinese
companies have announced about $44 billion of oil and gas
acquisitions overseas since January 2010, compared with $6.6
billion by Indians, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Jointly bidding may be the only way Indian companies can
beat Chinese competition,” said Kamlesh Kotak, the Mumbai-based
vice-president of research at Asian Markets Securities Pvt.
“Going out alone to  Angola  possibly meant ONGC lost that bid.”  New Delhi-based ONGC failed to win Exxon Mobil Corp.’s 25
percent stake in an Angolan oil block after making a $2 billion
offer, two people with knowledge of the matter said March 14. PT
Pertamina is the preferred bidder for the stake and is in talks
with  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  on a possible joint bid to help fund the deal,
an official at the Jakarta-based energy company said May 11.  Shares Gain  ONGC gained 0.7 percent to 283 rupees at 9:23 a.m. in
Mumbai trading. The stock has dropped 12 percent this year
compared with a 9.2 percent decline in the benchmark Sensitive
Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange. Oil India rose 0.9 percent
to 1,313.90 rupees.  Crude oil in  New York  has increased 10 percent this year
following a 15 percent gain in 2010. This makes oil assets more
expensive, Hazarika said.  ONGC and  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL)  may bid for OAO Novatek’s
liquefied natural gas project in Russia in partnership with
 Petronet LNG Ltd. (PLNG) , Joeman Thomas, managing director of ONGC
Videsh Ltd., said May 30. Petronet is a venture formed by
government-owned  oil companies .  ONGC Videsh, the overseas investment unit of ONGC, and four
state-run companies including Oil India and refiner Indian Oil
Corp. may together buy a 25 percent stake in a venture formed by
combining the Russian assets of Sistema JSFC and Imperial Energy
Corp., the Times of India reported May 31. Imperial Energy was
acquired by ONGC Videsh in 2009.  Beating Competition  “By jointly bidding, we can attempt to buy large assets
and have a better chance of beating competition,” T.K. Ananth Kumar, Oil India’s director of finance, said by telephone from
 Mumbai  yesterday, declining to comment on the Times of India
report. “The government’s thinking is clear on this. It is
desirable the public-sector companies tie up as much as
possible.”  ONGC had 224.5 billion rupees of cash and near-cash and Oil
India had 117.7 billion rupees at the end of March, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ONGC is in talks to acquire oil sands reserves in Canada
and may increase investments in  Kazakhstan  to help offset
declining domestic production, Hazarika said May 3.  India plans to set up a sovereign wealth fund and use part
of its $277.2 billion foreign currency assets to help acquire
assets. The International Energy Agency estimates  India ’s energy
use may more than double by 2030 to the equivalent of 833
million metric tons of oil from 2007. The Paris-based agency
says  China ’s use may rise 87 percent to 2.4 billion tons in the
period.  China had foreign currency assets of $3 trillion as of
March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s more
than double the size of the $1.4 trillion Indian economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  