-- 
Orexigen Halts Development of Diet Pill in U.S. Amid Appeal

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-03T20:09:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/orexigen-falls-after-halting-development-of-diet-pill-in-u-s-.html
Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX)  slid the
most in four months in Nasdaq trading after the drugmaker said
it will halt U.S. development of the diet pill Contrave because
of uncertainty in the regulatory process.  The La Jolla, California-based company fell $1.06, or 33
percent, to $2.12 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading. The drop was the biggest decline since a 73 percent
plunge on Feb. 1 after the  Food and Drug Administration  said a
large study on heart risks would be required before Contrave
could be approved.  “Is this drug absolutely dead in the water?” Charles Duncan, a senior biotechnology analyst at JMP Securities in  New
York , said in a telephone interview today. “No, but I do think
it should be discounted by 90 percent.”  Orexigen said in a statement today that it will appeal the
FDA’s decision, look at selling Contrave in international
markets and pursue partnerships for new products with closely
held companies. Orexigen and partner Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.
of  Osaka ,  Japan , had been in a race with  Vivus Inc. (VVUS)  and  Arena
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA)  to introduce the first new obesity medicine
in the U.S. in more than a decade.  Orexigen adjusted its strategy after the FDA denied the
company’s proposal to sell the medicine for people with lower
cardiovascular risk until data from the larger study could be
reviewed, a move the company called “unprecedented.” Orexigen
plans to engage the FDA’s formal dispute resolution process
within the next 30 days and expects a response from the agency
30 days later.  Benefits Versus Risks  “The agency has always been clear with companies
developing weight-loss products that we will weigh the drug’s
potential benefits with the potential risks,” Erica Jefferson,
a spokeswoman for the FDA, said today in an e-mail.  Contrave increases  blood pressure , a risk also seen with
Abbott Laboratories’ now-withdrawn diet pill Meridia, she said.
The agency pulled Meridia from the market last year after it was
tied to heart attacks and strokes in a large outcomes study.  Two Contrave tablets taken two times a day helped twice as
many patients in studies lose at least 5 percent of their weight
compared with a placebo after 56 weeks, meeting one of two FDA
guidelines for how effective diet pills must be to get approval.
The product is a combination of two approved drugs that target
different parts of the brain influencing appetite and cravings.  Advisory Committee  The FDA is planning to ask an advisory committee to review
general requirements for cardiovascular safety and diet pills.
The agency told Orexigen that the meeting won’t be held until
early next year, after which all products under development may
be “measured by a different bar” for approval, Orexigen Chief
Executive Officer Michael Narachi said.  “All bets are off” until that meeting takes place, Narachi
told investors and analysts today on a conference call.  Orexigen’s decision doesn’t affect Vivus’s plans to submit
the additional data requested by the FDA on its drug Qnexa in
the fourth quarter, said Timothy Morris, the chief financial
officer for  Mountain View , California-based Vivus, in an e-
mailed statement.  Arena, which is developing a medicine called lorcaserin
with Tokyo-based Eisai Co., is also “moving forward to do
what’s needed” to bring its drug to patients, said David Schull, an outside spokesman for the company, in an e-mail.  Vivus fell 29 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $8.25 in Nasdaq
trading. San Diego-based Arena dropped 3 cents, or 2.1 percent,
to $1.38.  About 68 percent of American adults are overweight, raising
their risk of diabetes,  heart disease , high blood pressure and
cancer, according to a 2008 National Health and Nutrition
Examination  Survey . Almost 34 percent are obese, measured as a
ratio between weight and height.  Xenical, from Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche Holding AG ,
was approved in 1999 and is the only chronic medicine approved
for  weight loss  in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 