-- 
How FIFA’s Fouls May Revive the Beautiful Game: David Goldblatt

-- B y   D a v i d   G o l d b l a t t
-- 
2011-06-03T04:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/how-fifa-s-fouls-may-revive-the-beautiful-game-david-goldblatt.html
Barcelona’s victory over  Manchester
United  in this year’s  Champions League  final will go down as one
of the finest displays of soccer that the modern era has
witnessed. But, for a performance of true audacity, for a story
that captures the essence of contemporary soccer, the Catalans
have been eclipsed by the games being played inside FIFA -- the
sports global governing body -- and above all by  Sepp Blatter ,
who was just re-elected as FIFA’s president.  Blatter, incumbent for 13 years, has been playing at the
top of his form. In the past six months 10 members of FIFA’s 24-
member executive committee have been accused of selling their
votes in connection with the bids for the 2018 and 2022 World
Cups. The Qataris who bid successfully for the 2022 tournament
have been accused of buying some of them. Blatter’s and the
institution’s legitimacy look very frail. If the president
didn’t know what had been going on, he shouldn’t have been
running the show, and if he did know, well, the same goes.  In this context, Mohamed  Bin Hammam , the Qatari vice-
president of FIFA, challenged Blatter for the presidency. On the
eve of the vote, however, Bin Hammam and Jack Warner, another
vice-president, were accused by Chuck Blazer, secretary of the
Confederation of North, Central American and Caribbean
Association Football and a long-time ally of Blatter’s, of
soliciting votes from Caribbean soccer associations in return
for cash.  The accused were suspended by FIFA’s ethics committee, and
Bin Hammam withdrew from the race, leaving Blatter the only
candidate. A late attempt to postpone the vote, led by the
English Football Association, was defeated at the congress in
Zurich, by 172 votes to 17. Blatter was then re-elected with 186
votes out of a possible 208. Game over?  ‘Something Marvelous’  As Blatter said in his victory speech, “Something marvelous
has happened.” Inconceivable would have been a better word --
inconceivable, that is, in any realm but world soccer. Imagine,
for a moment, that FIFA were a publicly traded company or a
government department or a prominent national charity.  Imagine that one-third of its board had been subject to
these kinds of allegations: Would it be acceptable for the boss
to be blithely re-elected or reconfirmed in his post? Would it
be possible to keep the matter out of the courts or away from
the police? Could any elite in even the most minimally
democratic polity shrug off so much scandal, strife and dubious
behavior?  Global Soccer  Soccer’s leaders survive in part because until very
recently, the world has lived under the illusion that soccer is
not a matter for politics and thus for serious public debate.
They are wrong. No practice is more global than soccer. In an
interdependent but deeply divided world, any source of common
culture is precious. The  World Cup  remains one of the few
occasions during which humanity can be an imagined community.  FIFA holds this in trust for the rest of us. In the latest
decade it has wrapped itself in the mantle of soccer as
redeemer, unifier and cosmopolitan meeting ground. Given the
organization’s privileged position, responsibilities  and recent
pretensions, it seems inconceivable that it should be run on
anything but the most open, transparent and democratic lines.  This argument applies not just to international sports
federations, but to the huge array of nongovernmental
organizations that make up such a significant part of the
emerging system of global governance. If we can’t manage this
with soccer, what chance is there of reforming the increasingly
powerful economic and political institutions that shape the
planet?  Flourishing Malpractice  Blatter can take some credit for his own miraculous escape,
but FIFA has been designed to allow such tangible malpractice to
flourish. The organization is legally constituted as the
equivalent of a village angling society in Zug,  Switzerland . The
Swiss criminal code on embezzlement and corruption doesn’t
apply, the organization pays almost no taxes and FIFA’s
obligations to disclose its accounts and workings are pitiable.  The FIFA congress is made up of 208 national football
associations. With few exceptions these groups aren’t closely
regulated by their own governments or scrutinized by civil
society or the media, and they are prey to the hidden politics
of patronage. Members of the world sports press, who know much
of what really goes on, have been for decades remarkably supine.
Voting at the congress and in the executive committee is secret,
so there is almost no way to hold any FIFA leaders accountable
for anything that they do. While some national soccer
organizations, such as those in England and  Germany , are
wealthy, the vast majority are impoverished and rely almost
exclusively on FIFA for their income. This is not a system that
encourages criticism, let alone dissent.  Fed-Up Swiss  Blatter may be looking at another four years in power, but
there is hope that the days of secrecy and corruption may be
numbered. If nothing else this congress has forced the politics
of FIFA out into the open. The Swiss government, finally fed up
with FIFA’s behavior, will continue to press it to reform and is
threatening to expel it. Some of the biggest sponsors of the
World Cup -- The  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  Adidas AG (ADS)  and the Emirates
Airline -- have publicly announced their dismay. Sports
ministers and parliaments in countries such as England and
 Australia  are beginning to take FIFA to task. And on the world’s
social media networks, a storm of protest is gathering.  Will these forces cohere for reform -- or will they settle
for the whitewash that Blatter is offering in lieu of real
change? The former is eminently possible. Out of the recent
scandal a clear reformist agenda has emerged. FIFA needs to be
legally reconstituted. Its accounts, internal processes and
voting system all need to be made entirely transparent and
public.  Vetting Process  Newly hired officers at FIFA should be required to undergo
a vetting process as rigorous as any faced by senior politicians
and civil servants in democratic states, so that conflicts of
interest are disclosed. A two-term limit should be placed on all
senior posts, to prevent the creation of immovable networks of
power and patronage.  FIFA should insist on similar reforms in all its member
soccer associations, on pain of suspension. And it should create
a regulatory system that is independent and politically
plausible; problems can no longer be sorted out “inside the
family.”  The family, of course, is the problem. This generation of
soccer leaders, unaccustomed to real scrutiny of any kind,
shaped by an era of autocracy, hyper-commercialization and
secrecy, won’t want to make changes. Consequently, the game
isn’t over. In fact it has only just begun.  ( David Goldblatt  is the author of “The Ball Is Round: A
Global History of Soccer.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
David Goldblatt at  davidsgoldblatt@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  