-- 
Pakistan Aims to Cut Budget Gap, Spur Growth Amid Taliban Threat

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r ,   F a r h a n   S h a r i f   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 
2011-06-03T19:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/pakistan-aims-to-cut-budget-gap-spur-growth-amid-taliban-threat.html
Pakistan plans to narrow the  budget
deficit  to a seven-year low as it seeks to end a freeze on
International Monetary Fund credit and revive economic growth
undermined by a Taliban insurgency.  The government will reduce the shortfall to 4 percent of
gross domestic product in the year ending June 30, 2012 from 5.7
percent of GDP in the previous 12 months, Finance Minister Abdul Hafeez Shaikh said in his budget speech in Islamabad yesterday.  Pakistan will go after 2.3 million tax evaders and slash
the subsidy bill by more than half to curb borrowings, Shaikh
said, helping boost investment in an economy that lost $68
billion in war costs in the past 10 years. The IMF has not
disbursed any money to the South Asian nation since May 2010
after the country failed to meet budget-gap targets attached to
the $11.3 billion loan first issued in 2008.  “It seems unrealistic to raise expenditures, reduce taxes
and still target to reduce the deficit,” said Raza Jafri, an
economist at AKD Securities Ltd. in Karachi. “They’ve got to
have something to balance it, which was missing in the speech.”  The budget was unveiled after the nation’s financial
markets closed for the day. The Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index
rose 0.5 percent yesterday, extending a 27 percent gain in the
past year. The  Pakistan  rupee was little changed at 85.87
against the dollar.  Budget Outlay  The total budget outlay for the year starting July 1 has
been set at 2.5 trillion rupees ($29 billion), an increase of
12.3 percent from the previous year, Shaikh said. He proposed an
abolition of excise and regulatory duties, a reduction in the
general  sales tax  to 16 percent from 17 percent, and a 15
percent jump in the salaries of government employees.  Shaikh said he plans to boost revenue by hunting tax cheats
and that the government plans to issue notices to 700,000 such
people within three months. He said 10,000 of them have already
been served notices from whom an estimated 3 billion rupees may
be collected.  “It’s the need of the hour,” said Hamad Aslam, head of
equities at BMA Capital Management Ltd. in Karachi. “Such a
measure not only reins in a single person but an entire chain of
people and businesses who were evading taxes.”  Only 1.5 million people in Pakistan, a nation of 180
million, pay taxes, the finance minister said.  The government proposed a 58 percent cut in food and power
subsidies to 166.4 billion rupees in the next fiscal year,
according to the budget documents.  Fiscal Deficit  “If we manage to reduce the fiscal deficit and bring
inflation into single digits, which the government targets to
do, it will attract investment,” Arif Habib, chairman of the
Arif Habib Group, told the state-run Pakistan Television. “The
targets are ambitious but not impossible.”  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s coalition aims to
accelerate  economic growth  to 4.2 percent in the year ending
June 30, 2012 from an estimated 2.4 percent in the previous 12
months.  The nation’s central bank says a tight fiscal policy will
ease inflation pressures and help reduce borrowing costs,
spurring consumer demand.  Government borrowings  have surged 55
percent to 614 billion rupees since July 1, the central bank
estimates.  The  State Bank of Pakistan  extended a six-month pause in
rate increases on May 21, holding the discount rate at 14
percent, among the highest in the world.  “Further tightening is looking increasingly difficult
right now because demand has already been squeezed in the
private sector,” Hamza Ali Malik, director of the monetary
policy department at the  State Bank  of Pakistan, said in an
interview with Bloomberg News on June 1. “Low growth, high
inflation, rising debt. It’s a nightmare for any economy.”  Price Pressures  Consumer prices in Pakistan rose 13.23 percent in May from
a year earlier, the fastest pace in  Asia  after  Vietnam .  Shaikh aims to improve government finances amid delays in
assistance from overseas donors.  The IMF urged Pakistan last month to reduce the budget
deficit and fixed the next round of talks in July to review
progress.  Funds from the U.S., a key donor in the past six years,
have become less certain after al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden’s
killing in the town of Abbottabad, 30 miles from Pakistan’s
capital. The U.S. has provided $14.6 billion in economic and
military aid since 2005 to support investment and fight Taliban
militants along the border with  Afghanistan .  Pakistan’s defense allocation was increased by 11.4 percent
to 495.2 billion rupees for the year starting July 1, the budget
documents showed. Since 2006, 35,000 Pakistani citizens and
3,500 security personnel have been killed, according to the
Economic Survey released June 2.  Senator  John Kerry , the Massachusetts Democrat who leads
the Foreign Relations Committee and was an architect of a 2009
bill committing $1.5 billion annually to Pakistan, said last
month many members of the  U.S. Congress  are questioning that aid
after bin Laden was found sheltering in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  