-- 
Palin Disputes Debt Warnings, Urges Resistance to Raising Cap

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-06-03T16:41:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/palin-disputes-warnings-on-u-s-debt-urges-resistance-to-raising-ceiling.html
Sarah Palin dismissed warnings about
the need to raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling,
saying that a failure to increase the limit would not result in
an unprecedented government default.  “I don’t believe the debt ceiling has to be raised,”
Palin told reporters last night in Seabrook,  New Hampshire . “We
have to service our debt first and prioritize wisely, cut the
budget and cut excess spending.”  Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, President  Barack Obama 
and scores of business leaders have warned that a failure to
raise the limit would cause a first-ever federal default that
would have devastating consequences on the fragile economy.  Senator  Rand Paul  of  Kentucky  and other rank-and-file
Republicans backed by Tea Party activists say such predictions
are an attempt by the Obama administration to force their
leaders into a deal that falls short of the spending cuts being
sought by the party.  Palin urged Republicans to stand strong in their
opposition, saying Geithner was making “false statements”
about the economic impacts of failing to raising the limit.  “If the debt ceiling were to be increased based on what I
believe to be  Timothy Geithner ’s false statements to the
American public -- that a catastrophe would befall us all if the
debt ceiling isn’t raised -- a failure of leadership in the
House would be if we were to cave and believe that,” she said.  Reassuring  Wall Street   Republican leaders are demanding that Obama agree to steep
spending cuts in return for raising the government’s debt
ceiling. Still, in private meetings over the last few weeks,
they’ve sought to reassure Wall Street and business leaders that
they intend to raise the limit.  The urgency to reach an agreement increased yesterday after
Moody’s Investors Service said it may put the U.S. government
debt rating on review for a downgrade if no progress is made on
increasing the government debt limit in the coming weeks. Yet,
the issue remains politically treacherous for Republicans who
face voter skepticism about the need to raise the limit.  Only 35 percent of respondents to a Washington Post-Pew
Research survey said they were concerned about risk of a default
and economic damage. Almost half said they were more alarmed by
the prospect that the debt could grow beyond the current limit,
according to the  poll  taken May 19-22.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  of
Massachusetts said  House Republicans  were doing a “heroic job”
on the debt-ceiling issue.  ‘Excessive Spending’  “They’re using every source of their strength to fight the
excessive spending of this administration and I applauded them
that,” he said, at a town-hall meeting in Manchester, New
Hampshire.  Still, he avoided questions from reporters about whether he
would support an increase and the economic impacts of a failure
to raise the limit.  “I want to make sure we make dramatic reductions,” he
told a voter after the event.  Geithner is using what he calls “extraordinary measures”
to avoid exhausting the nation’s borrowing authority, and he has
said that he will run out of options for avoiding default by
Aug. 2.  Yesterday, he met with freshman House members at the
Capitol and told reporters afterward, “I’m confident two things
are going to happen this summer. One is we’re going to avoid a
default crisis, and we’re going to reach agreement on a long-
term fiscal plan.”  In a May 13 letter, Geithner said a failure to increase the
debt limit would “force the  United States  to default on its
obligations” and sketched out dire consequences, from a plunge
in U.S. household wealth to the potential for another financial
shock that could threaten the global economy as well as millions
of American jobs.  “This would be an unprecedented event in American
history,” Geithner wrote in response to an inquiry by
Democratic Senator Michael Bennet of  Colorado . “A default would
inflict catastrophic, far-reaching damage on our nation’s
economy, significantly reducing growth, and increasing
unemployment.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Lisa Lerer in Washington
at   llerer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  