-- 
Paris Luxury-Home Prices Increase 22%, Fastest in World, Knight Frank Says

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-06-03T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/paris-luxury-home-prices-increase-22-fastest-in-world-knight-frank-says.html
Paris luxury-home prices rose the
most in the world in the 12 months through March as buyers from
emerging markets competed for a limited number of properties,
 Knight Frank  LLP said.  Values of houses and apartments costing more than 2 million
euros ($2.9 million) increased 22 percent in the French capital,
Mark Harvey, a senior negotiator for the London-based property
broker, said in an interview. Hong Kong was second with a 15
percent rise and Helsinki third with 12 percent. Shanghai and
Beijing completed the top five.  Buyers from the group of Brazil, Russia, India and  China 
“are increasingly looking to Paris as a safe haven to invest
funds in a mature and high-performing market,”  Liam Bailey ,
head of residential research, said in a statement. “Like
London, supply is hindered by a paucity of new-build
developments.”  Measures by Asian governments to curb property speculation
appear to be working, with luxury-home prices in  Hong Kong ,
Shanghai, Beijing and Singapore growing 11 percent as a group in
the first quarter compared with 55 percent a year earlier,
Bailey said in the statement.  London prices gained 8.6 percent, putting the city in a tie
for sixth with Singapore. Zurich followed with an 8 percent
increase.  Los Angeles had a 2.2 percent decline and Moscow took the
bottom spot on Knight Frank’s 15-member Global Cities Index,
with prices contracting 8 percent. The index compares the
performance of prime housing markets, defined as the top 5
percent to 10 percent of the mainstream market, in key global
cities chosen by the broker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  