-- 
Payrolls Expand at Slowest Pace in Eight Months as U.S. Slowdown Persists

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-03T20:31:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/payrolls-in-u-s-rose-54-000-in-may-least-in-8-months-unemployment-9-1-.html
Payrolls grew at the slowest pace in
eight months and the U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly climbed to
9.1 percent in May, reinforcing signs that a slowdown in the
world’s largest economy is persisting into the second quarter.  Employers added a less-than-projected 54,000 jobs last
month, after a revised 232,000 gain in April that was smaller
than initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed today
in Washington. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
called for payrolls to rise 165,000. The jobless rate climbed to
the highest level this year from 9 percent a month earlier.  Stocks fell on concern that a weaker job market will hurt
the confidence of consumers, whose spending makes up 70 percent
of the economy, negating a decline in gasoline prices. The
figures raise the odds the  Federal Reserve  will keep its
benchmark interest rate near zero into next year, while also
posing a challenge to President  Barack Obama , whose re-election
prospects hinge on pushing the jobless rate lower.  “These are pretty bleak numbers,” said  Julia Coronado ,
chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas in New York,
who projected a 75,000 gain in May employment. “Some of the
engines of hiring just went away.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1 percent to
1,300.16 at 4 p.m. in New York, the lowest level since March.
Treasuries rose, pushing yields on two-year notes down three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 0.43 percent, the
lowest this year. The euro strengthened 1 percent to $1.4633 and
touched $1.4642, the highest since May 5.  Service Industries   Another report today showed service industries expanded
faster than forecast in May. The Institute for Supply Management
said its index of non-manufacturing businesses increased to 54.6
in May from 52.8 a month earlier. The median estimate of 74
economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected the measure would
rise to 54. A reading above 50 signals expansion.  Factories cut payrolls in May for the first time in seven
months, the Labor Department said, partly reflecting a drop at
motor vehicles and parts producers that may have been related to
a components shortage after the earthquake in  Japan . Employment
at retailers, leisure and hospitality companies and state and
local governments also decreased.  Economists at Barclays Capital Inc. today cut their
forecast for second-quarter economic growth to a 2 percent
annual rate from a prior estimate of 3.5 percent. They also
lowered the projection for the third quarter to 3 percent from
3.5 percent.  “The surge in headline inflation over the December-April
period has clearly hurt consumer purchasing power and  consumer
spending ,” Barclays Capital spokesman Seth Martin said in an e-
mailed statement.  Wave of Data  Today’s report makes it more likely the Fed will signal
that it will keep its balance sheet at a record to spur the
economy after ending $600 billion in bond purchases this month,
a policy known as QE2 for the second round of quantitative
easing. Central bankers next meet June 21-22.  “This really suggests everything will be on hold longer
for the Fed,” said  John Silvia , Wells Fargo Securities LLC’s
chief economist in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “I can’t imagine
they would be shrinking the balance sheet after finishing QE2
given all the uncertainties. They are on caution alert at this
point. We are not creating jobs.”  Companies still reducing their workforce include H.J. Heinz
Co., the world’s biggest ketchup maker, which in May announced
plans to slash as many as 1,000 jobs worldwide and close five
factories.  Dean Foods Co. (DF) , the largest U.S. milk processor, said
it cut 600 positions last quarter and 140 early this quarter.  ‘Little Bump’  Austan Goolsbee, Obama’s chief economist, said the jobs
report represents a “little bump” in the road to recovery and
that the broader trends are “substantially more positive” than
when Obama took office in January 2009.  “We should never read too much into any one month’s
report,” Goolsbee, chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisers, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “No
doubt we face some headwinds.”  Employment and economic growth may bounce back as
disruptions of parts supplies caused by the Japan earthquake and
tsunami ease, said  David Resler , chief economist at Nomura
Securities International Inc. in  New York .  “Supply-chain disruptions from the earthquake in Japan are
affecting the auto and related industries,” he said. “There is
a bit of a slowdown which we think is going to be temporary.”  Gasoline Prices  Consumers are also getting some relief from a drop in
gasoline prices.  Consumer confidence  rose for a second week in
the period ended May 29, the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
showed yesterday.  “Job creation remains the most important factor during the
economic recovery, but we do anticipate that it’s continuing to
improve,” Don Johnson, vice president of U.S. sales at  General
Motors Co. (GM) , said on a June 1 teleconference. “The environment
for future hiring and investment does continue to be positive.”  Economic growth slipped to a 1.8 percent annual pace in the
first three months of the year from 3.1 percent in the prior
quarter, revised figures from the Commerce Department showed
last week. Today’s report caps a raft of data pointing to an
extended slowdown.  Manufacturing grew in May at the slowest pace in more than
a year, according to  Institute for Supply Management  data this
week, reinforcing concern the industry that led the U.S.
recovery is cooling.  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities dropped in March to the
lowest level since 2003, figures from the S&P/Case-Shiller index
showed on May 31. Consumer spending grew less than forecast in
April as households felt the pinch of grocery and energy costs,
a Commerce Department report showed.  Accommodative Stance  “The current accommodative stance of U.S. monetary policy
continues to be appropriate because the  unemployment rate 
remains elevated and inflation is expected to remain subdued
over the medium run,” Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said in a
Tokyo speech this week.  Factory payrolls decreased by 5,000 in May, compared with
the survey forecast of a 10,000 increase and following a 24,000
gain in April, today’s report showed.  Private hiring, which excludes government agencies, rose
83,000 last month. Private payrolls increased 251,000 in April,
initially reported as a gain of 268,000.  Government payrolls decreased by 29,000, reflecting reduced
employment at state and local governments. Employment at
service-providers increased 51,000. Construction companies added
2,000 workers and retailers cut 5,000 jobs.  Average hourly earnings rose 0.3 percent to $22.98 in May,
while the average workweek held at 34.4 hours, today’s report
showed.  The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- was little changed at
15.8 percent after 15.9 percent in April.  The report also showed an increase in long-term unemployed
Americans. The number of people unemployed for 27 weeks or more
rose as a percentage of all jobless, to 45.1 percent from 43.4
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  