-- 
PCCW Wins Approval in Hong Kong for Business Trust Spinoff; Shares Surge

-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-06-03T05:32:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/pccw-wins-h-k-approval-for-business-trust.html
PCCW Ltd. (8) ,  Hong Kong ’s biggest phone
company, won approval from the city’s stock exchange to list its
telecommunications operations as a business trust, sending the
shares surging the most in more than two months.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. approved PCCW’s spinoff
proposal after the phone carrier committed to retain its
information technology business for at least three years,
according to a regulatory filing yesterday. The plan, initially
blocked by the exchange, still requires further regulatory
approval and backing from shareholders, PCCW said in the filing.  Billionaire Chairman  Richard Li  is seeking the first
listing of a business trust in Hong Kong to generate funds to
invest in faster-growing businesses to lift earnings at PCCW
after fixed-line sales fell last year. The proposed spinoff is
at least the sixth attempt since 2006 to reorganize the phone
company, whose shares have underperformed rivals including
SmarTone Telecommunications Holdings Ltd. this year.  “The news will provide a boost to PCCW shares in the short
term,” said Linus Yip, chief strategist at First Shanghai
Securities in Hong Kong. “There is still some uncertainty
because of the need to get clearance from shareholders and
regulators, and the company should also provide guidance on how
it plans to re-invest proceeds from the spinoff.”  PCCW shares rose as much as 6.7 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since March, to HK$3.17, and changed hands up 5.7
percent at the midday break in Hong Kong. The stock has declined
8.7 percent this year, compared with the 75 percent gain in
SmarTone, the mobile-carrier controlled by the city’s leading
real-estate company  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)   ‘Stapled Securities’  PCCW said it’s still working with regulators on its plan
for “stapled securities” that combine a share and a trust unit
because the structure “is a novel concept in Hong Kong.”  Hong Kong Exchanges hopes to introduce a framework for the
listing of business trusts “soon,” the regulator said today.
It is resolving some “technical” issues with the Securities
and Futures Commission on the framework.  Henry Law, a spokesman at the exchange, declined to comment
on PCCW’s business trust plan.  ‘Mature’ Businesses  The proposed business trust will include “mature”
operations at PCCW including its fixed-line, broadband Internet,
and mobile-phone services, the company said. After the spinoff,
PCCW will retain its information technology and media businesses
including its Now pay-television unit, it said.  The listing would generate funds for the company to invest
in faster-growing businesses. PCCW said it will also use
proceeds from the listing to reduce the telecommunications
division’s debt.  PCCW said in April that the stock exchange’s listing
committee had rejected the trust application, and that it
planned to appeal.  The trust will have a “clearer focus” on the
telecommunications business, and so will attract investors who
seek stable dividend yields, generating a higher valuation, PCCW
said. The company plans to maintain the same level of dividends
for three years.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , controlled by Hong Kong’s richest
man  Li Ka-shing , father of the PCCW chairman, this year spun off
some of its ports assets in a $5.5 billion business trust
listing in  Singapore , after saying Hong Kong rules didn’t allow
such transactions.  PCCW named NM Rothschild & Sons Hong Kong Ltd. as adviser
to an independent board committee that will make a
recommendation to shareholders on the proposal. The carrier
reiterated that it intends to keep a 55 percent stake in the
listed trust.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  