-- 
Petrobras, Ecopetrol Boost 2011 Peruvian Oil Exploration

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-06-03T19:55:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/petrobras-ecopetrol-boost-2011-peru-oil-exploration-saba-says.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and Colombia’s
 Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  are among energy companies aiming to increase Peru
investments by a combined 50 percent to $1.54 billion this year,
said the president of the state oil contracting agency.  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil company known as Petrobras,
Ecopetrol, Argentina’s Pluspetrol SA and Calgary-based  Gran
Tierra Energy Inc. (GTE)  will drill a dozen exploration wells in the
Amazon jungle and off Peru’s coast this year, twice the average
annual figure, Perupetro’s Daniel Saba said June 1 in an
interview in Lima. Peru elects a new president in two days.  “With more companies entering Peru, more wells are being
drilled,” said Saba, who awarded 14 exploration contracts in
October. “ Oil companies  are in it for the long term and none of
them have said they’re leaving.”  The Andean country’s stocks, bonds and currency slumped
today on investor fears that former army renegade Ollanta Humala, who pledged to rewrite oil and mining contracts and halt
gas exports if elected, may win the June 5 vote. Humala was
statistically tied with Keiko Fujimori in the latest poll.
Fujimori has promised to try to attract foreign investment.  Peru, which tripled natural gas output to a record 1.03
billion cubic feet a day in April from a year earlier, has lined
up $10 billion in energy projects through 2016 in a bid to
double crude output and gas reserves, according to the Energy
Ministry. Companies including Canada’s  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  and
Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , which have signed a record 86 contracts
to date, invested $987 million last year.  Gas Investment  The outcome of the elections won’t slow a $2 billion
expansion of the  Camisea  gas fields, said Daniel Guerra,
spokesman of Buenos Aires-based operator Pluspetrol. Pluspetrol
plans to quadruple gas shipments to petrochemical and power
plant projects by the end of 2012.  “We believe we’ll be able to work with whoever is
elected,” Guerra said in a May 18 interview during a visit to
the fields. “It’s in the next government’s interest to bring in
more investment in the gas industry.”  Transportadora de Gas del Peru , a seven-company group whose
partners include Pluspetrol, is scheduled to finish an $850
million expansion of its gas conduit next year, he said.  Other energy investments in Peru include Perenco SA’s $2
billion oil and pipeline projects,  CF Industries Holdings Inc. (CF) ’s
$2 billion petrochemicals complex and Petroperu’s $1.3 billion
Talara refinery expansion.  Crude oil for July delivery fell 18 cents to settle at
$100.22 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
have doubled over the past two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 