-- 
El Paso, PG&E, Newfield Exploration Obtain $7.5 Billion in Credit Lines

-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 
2011-06-03T20:34:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/pg-e-is-among-u-s-energy-companies-obtaining-7-5-billion-in-credit-lines.html
El Paso Corp. (EP)  and Pacific Gas &
Electric Co. are among energy companies today that announced
about $7.5 billion of new credit facilities.  El Paso, owner of the largest U.S. network of interstate
natural-gas pipelines, amended a revolving credit facility and
renewed its El Paso Exploration & Production unit’s $1 billion
line of credit, both of which were set to mature in 2012,
according to a statement today distributed by Marketwire.  The company has extended the maturity on about $2.25
billion of loans to 2016, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Houston-based El Paso also reduced available
commitments to $1.25 billion from $1.5 billion and amended
credit terms to allow more flexibility, the company said.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. led 23 banks that
arranged the transaction.  El Paso Pipeline Partners LP (EPB)  got a $1 billion line of
credit due 2016, according to another statement distributed by
Marketwire. Covenants on the new facility for the Delaware
limited partnership formed by El Paso Corp. will become less
restrictive if the company receives investment-grade ratings on
its senior unsecured debt. Bank of America Merrill Lynch and
Royal Bank of  Scotland  Group Plc led the 24-bank syndication of
the deal, the company said.  Investment-grade loans are those rated BBB- or above by
 Standard & Poor’s  and Baa3 or higher at Moody’s Investors
Service.  “The extension of the revolver and the increased
flexibility of terms are indicative of the enhanced credit
profile of the corporation,” Scott Langston in the media
relations department at El Paso Corp. said in a telephone
interview.  Pacific Gas & Electric  Pacific Gas & Electric, a unit of  PG&E Corp. (PCG) , entered into
a five-year, $3 billion revolving line of credit.  The loan for the San Francisco-based utility will be used
for working capital and other corporate purposes, including
backstopping commercial paper, according to a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The agreement also includes
a $1 billion sublimit for the issuance of standby and commercial
letters of credit, according to the filing.  Citigroup, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, JPMorgan, Royal
Bank of Scotland and  Wells Fargo & Co . were the lead arrangers
on the debt, according to the filing.  Denny Boyle, a PG&E spokesman, said the new revolver
replaces an existing line of credit that was set to expire in
February 2012.  Newfield Exploration Co. (NFX) , the mid-sized oil and gas
exploration and production company based in Houston, received a
$1.25 billion unsecured facility that comes due in June 2016,
the company said today in a regulatory filing. The debt replaces
a loan of the same size that would have matured in 2012.
JPMorgan and Wells Fargo were co-lead arrangers on the
financing, Newfield said.  Keith Schmidt, a spokesman for Newfield, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking a comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 