-- 
PNC’s Rohr Says National City Integration Was ‘Tremendous’

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-06-03T14:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/pnc-s-rohr-says-national-city-integration-was-tremendous-.html
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ’s
integration of National City Corp. was a “tremendous
execution” that has led to greater cost savings sooner than
expected, Chief Executive Officer James Rohr said.  “The integration was really quite something,” Rohr, 62,
said today at a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. investor conference
in New York. The addition of Cleveland-based National City took
1 1/2 years instead of the expected two years, and Pittsburgh-
based PNC was able reduce costs by $1.8 billion compared with a
plan of $1.2 billion, he said.  PNC’s purchase of National City in 2008 helped propel the
bank to record profit of $3.4 billion last year. There will be
more expansion opportunities for PNC and the bank will remain
“disciplined” in considering potential acquisitions, Rohr
said. Sellers’ price expectations have been too high and there
have been more targets than buyers, he said. PNC hasn’t bid on
anything in the last two years, Rohr said.  “The acquisition game is really about small banks, not
about large banks,” he said.  PNC, the sixth-largest U.S. bank by deposits, and Winston-
Salem, North Carolina-based  BB&T Corp. (BBT)  are among lenders that
have shown interest in buying  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ’s U.S.
consumer bank, two people with knowledge of the matter said. PNC
would fill a gap in its network in the Southeast, adding
branches in the Carolinas, Georgia and  Alabama .  Regulations including caps on debit-card “swipe” fees
will hit smaller banks harder than PNC and benefit the lender in
the long term, he said. “It lands on smaller banks very
heavily,” he said. “I think that will be beneficial for us on
the customer side and also in the M&A space as well.”  PNC fell 46 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $59.63 at 9:37 a.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 0.9 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 