-- 
Pound Drops as Weak Service Industries Deter Bets on Higher Interest Rates

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-06-03T15:03:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/pound-weakens-against-dollar-before-gauge-of-services-industries-released.html
The pound fell against the euro for a
fourth straight day after an index of U.K. service industries
dropped more than economists estimated, adding to pressure on
the central bank to keep  interest rates  on hold.  Sterling headed for a weekly loss against all 16 major
currencies monitored by Bloomberg, reaching 89 pence per euro
for the first time since May 5.  Barclays Capital  pushed back its
forecast for the  Bank of England  to start increasing interest
rates after a manufacturing index fell to a 20-month low this
week and U.K. mortgage approvals dropped to the least in four
months amid signs of slower global growth. Sterling stayed lower
as U.S. payrolls rose less than analysts estimated.  “The market has to adjust to the fact that the Bank of
 England  won’t lift rates at all this year,” said  John Hydeskov ,
chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S in  London . “Data has been
terrible and I think the trend is going to continue. We’re
bearish on sterling.”  The pound depreciated as much as 0.8 percent to 89.24 pence
per euro, before trading at 89.01 pence as of 4:02 p.m. in
London, headed for a 2.6 percent drop in the week. Sterling was
little changed at $1.6373, bound for a 0.8 percent weekly
decline.  The pound touched its weakest level on record today,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
measure of 10 developed-market currencies. It’s dropped 1.2
percent this year as central bank officials debate how to manage
signs of slowing growth and above-target inflation. Bank of
England Markets Director  Paul Fisher  said in a Daily Mail report
this week he would consider an increase in asset purchases if
the economy “did take a sudden downturn.”  Services Gauge  The services gauge from Markit Economics Ltd. and the
 Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  fell to 53.8 in May
from 54.3 in April, less than the 54.2 median estimate of 26
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Barclays now expects officials to begin raising interest
rates in November, rather than August, economists including
 Simon Hayes  in London said in an e-mailed note today, citing
U.K. and global economic “softness.”  U.S. payrolls increased by 54,000 last month, after a
revised 232,000 gain in April, Labor Department figures showed
today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a
rise by 165,000. The jobless rate climbed to 9.1 percent, the
highest level this year, from 9 percent a month earlier.  Relative Interest Rates  While policy makers have kept the U.K.’s benchmark interest
rate at a record-low 0.5 percent his year, inflation accelerated
to 4.5 percent in April, the fastest since 2008. The  European
Central Bank  raised borrowing costs for the euro area in April
even as the region struggles to contain the sovereign-debt
crisis that saw  Portugal  join Greece and Ireland in requesting
international bailouts.  Money markets price in a 25 basis-point increase in the key
rate in February, according to sterling overnight interbank
average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc data show. As recently as
February investors bet the rate would be lifted by May.  The pound may weaken against the dollar as the Bank of
England maintains loose monetary policy and rising global risk
encourages investors to favor the U.S. currency instead,
according to Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  “All the signs are that policy remains on hold for the
foreseeable future,” chief currency strategist  Simon Derrick 
wrote in an e-mailed note today. Global indicators are
“flashing warning signs about rising risk aversion, typically a
dollar positive. We wonder whether we may be about to see the
start of a sustained move lower in cable.” Cable refers to the
dollar-pound  exchange rate .  Gilts Fall  U.K. government bonds slipped, with the two-year note yield
rising three basis points to 0.90 percent, after the yield
yesterday fell to 0.85 percent, its lowest since November. The
10-year gilt yield was also three basis points higher, at 3.28
percent.  U.K. debt sales may be cut as the government raises funds
from unwinding taxpayers’ 65.8 billion-pound ($107.3 billion)
stakes in Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc,  RBC Capital Markets  said.  “In the same way gilt sales increased as the cash
requirement went up in the crisis, there is scope for gilt sales
to be subject to downward revisions when the interventions are
unwound,” said  Sam Hill , a U.K. fixed-income strategist at RBC
in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  