-- 
Prologis to Double Asia Properties After Biggest REIT Deal

-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-06-03T21:24:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/prologis-to-double-asia-property-after-completing-biggest-u-s-reit-merger.html
Prologis (PLD) , the world’s largest
warehouse owner, plans to double its  Asia  holdings while scaling
back growth in  North America  and  Europe  after completing the
biggest merger of U.S. real estate investment trusts.  The company, which has $46 billion in owned and managed
properties, will expand Asia assets to a quarter of its total
portfolio value, Co-Chief Executive Officer Hamid Moghadam said
in an interview at Prologis’s San Francisco headquarters. About
12 percent of the REIT’s holdings are in the region now,
according to research firm Green Street Advisors Inc.  “We need to increase Asia’s percentage over time, and on
the margin reduce the percentage of U.S. and Europe,” Moghadam,
54, said an hour after shareholders approved Prologis’s merger
with  AMB Property Corp. (AMB)  on June 1. “If you think about growth
rates, the emerging markets are where all the action is.”  Moghadam, after helping to engineer a deal that creates
fourth-largest U.S. REIT, is seeking to expand abroad as
accelerating growth signals increased demand for industrial
storage space. Developing Asian economies will expand 8.4
percent next year, almost triple the U.S. growth rate and more
than four times that of Europe in a “two-speed recovery,” the
International Monetary Fund estimates. Imports in emerging
countries may rise 9.4 percent in 2012, almost double the rate
in advanced nations, the Washington-based fund said in its world
economic outlook.  Japan ‘Growth Area’  Japan, projected to expand 1.8 percent, is still a “growth
area” after the country’s March earthquake and tsunami showed
the need for newer, safer warehouses buildings, said Matt Richmond, a  fund manager  at Principal Financial Group Inc.,
which has $327 billion in assets under management and owned more
than 1 million AMB shares and 10.8 million Prologis shares at
the end of March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Prologis is “the only U.S. company building modern,
quality product in those high-octane markets,” said Steven Frankel, lead industrial analyst for  Newport Beach , California-
based Green Street, which focuses on REITs. “Their technology
and warehouses are state of the art.”  The Prologis-AMB merger was completed and the shares began
trading today as a combined company on the New York Stock
Exchange, according to a statement from the REITs. The shares
fell 7 cents to $34 at 4:15 p.m. New York time.  Largest Merger  The deal is valued at about $17 billion including
assumption of debt, making it the biggest combination of U.S.
REITs, topping the General Growth Properties Inc. purchase of
Rouse Co. for $11.3 billion in 2004, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The largest transaction involving a REIT was
private-equity firm  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s 2007 acquisition of
Equity Office Properties Trust for $34 billion.  Moghadam, formerly the head of AMB, is becoming co-CEO with
Prologis’s Walter Rakowich, 53, and will take over as the sole
chief at the end of next year. The new company’s corporate
headquarters will be in San Francisco, while its operations will
be based in the former Prologis’s home in Denver.  Prologis estimates $80 million in annual savings from the
merger. Benefits from consolidating staff and overhead may be as
much as $100 million a year, according to Green Street.  An improved credit profile also will lower financing
expenses, Prologis said in a Jan. 31 statement on its website.
Fitch Ratings yesterday raised the company’s credit rating to
investment-grade level because of the merger.  ‘Huge Advantage’  “What’s most important is that the cost of capital for
this company can end up being 100 basis points lower than either
company on its own,” Moghadam said in the interview. “That is
a huge advantage on a $25 billion balance sheet.”  Industrial companies are the second best-performing group
in the Bloomberg REIT index in the past 12 months, rising 32
percent as of yesterday. U.S. sales of warehouses and
distribution centers rose 11 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier to $3.2 billion, with the sector having the
smallest amount of distressed debt of any property type,
according to Real Capital Analytics Inc.  Industrial rents are projected to climb 5.9 percent in 2013
and 7.3 percent the next year, according to a March 24 forecast
by Deutsche Bank AG’s RREEF investment unit.  “Industrial has been the biggest surprise on the
commercial real estate side,” said Kevin Thorpe, chief
economist at commercial broker Cassidy Turley in  Washington .
“There are indications that it’s not going to slow.”  Prologis may sell 10 percent to 15 percent of its portfolio
and use the proceeds to reduce debt and develop new projects
amid investor demand for warehouses, Moghadam said.  ‘Wall of Capital’  A “wall of capital” from pension funds, private equity
and other large institutions is targeting industrial buildings,
with prices low relative to corporate bonds, Green Street said
May 17.  “Industrial is a steady performer and isn’t correlated to
other sectors,” said  Ben Thypin , director of market analysis
for New York-based Real Capital. “It didn’t get hot during the
boom, and didn’t drop much during the crash.”  Investment firm Area Property Partners and DW Management
said this week that they paid $170 million for 12 U.S.
distribution centers in Atlanta,  Dallas  and  Southern California .
Blackstone this year acquired about $600 million of debt on an
industrial portfolio known as CalWest, totaling 23 million
square feet (2.1 million square meters), three people with
knowledge of the deal said in April. In 2010, the New York-based
firm bought 180 industrial buildings from Prologis.  Japan  Building  Japan is Prologis’s largest market in Asia, with 10 percent
of the company’s total assets. Its 420,900-square-foot warehouse
in coastal Sendai survived the quake and tsunami with only
moderate flooding on the ground floor, Moghadam said. Within
weeks, the building went from being two-thirds empty to fully
leased.  Such performance under severe conditions is a “calling
card” as the company seeks business in Japan and elsewhere with
global shippers that demand modern storage and distribution
centers, Frankel said. Prologis can build about 6 million square
feet of warehouse buildings as Japan enters its “reconstruction
phase,” said Richmond of Principal Financial.  The merged company also is aiming to increase its
investment management business, which currently has almost $26
billion in assets in 22 funds and ventures, Moghadam said.  A slowdown in global growth is the main risk after the
merger, according to Richmond, based in  Des Moines ,  Iowa . The
IMF’s  April  report cited high unemployment in developed
economies, inflation in emerging nations, debt problems
spreading to the “core of Europe” and continued U.S. real
estate weakness as threats to world trade and growth.  Change in Fortune  The AMB deal marks a change in fortune for Prologis, which
in late 2008 was saddled with $11 billion of debt and “came
perilously close to breeching its covenants,” Frankel said.  The company cut its dividend, stopped new developments and
sold about $3 billion of assets to pay down loans, according to
Bloomberg data. Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Schwartz
resigned in November 2008. Rakowich, who had been chief
operating officer, took over as CEO and in 2009 sold operations
in  China  and property-fund interests in Japan to  Singapore ’s
sovereign-wealth fund for $1.3 billion.  Even with the sales, Prologis had a 71 percent debt level
in May 2010, compared with a 50 percent average among its peers,
according to Green Street. AMB opened merger talks in November
2010 when Moghadam called Rakowich, Prologis said in a May
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  An unidentified “large private equity” firm had made
inquiries in May 2010 before deciding a purchase required taking
on more debt, according to the filing. Keeping a lid on new
borrowings is a goal for the merged company, Moghadam said.  Balance Sheet  “I want to be under 30 percent levered,” he said in the
interview. “I want to have one of the top three balance sheets
in the business, and it’s going to take us maybe two to three
years to get there. But we’re very committed to that.”  Combining two large companies is “never a slam dunk” as
cultures sometimes clash and firms face organizational issues,
said Keven Lindemann of SNL Financial in Charlottesville,
Virginia. One potential snag is separating Prologis’s
headquarters from its operational base in Denver, he said.  Moghadam isn’t worried, saying that the merger will benefit
customers and shareholders alike. The challenge comes with
extending Prologis’s global reach, he said.  “Nobody’s actually, really done this on this scale
before,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in San Francisco at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  