-- 
Nadal Wields Missing Forehand Shot to Beat Murray, Reach French Open Final

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-03T17:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/rafael-nadal-uses-forehand-to-beat-andy-murray-reach-french-open-final.html
The forehand that had been missing in
the first week of the French Open helped  Rafael Nadal 
dismiss  Andy Murray  and move to his sixth  Roland Garros  final, a
spot where he’s never lost.  The top-seeded Spaniard overcame the No. 4 seed from
Britain 6-4, 7-5, 6-4 on a windy Court Philippe Chatrier in
Paris. He set up three match points with his 15th forehand
winner, and moved to another championship match when Murray hit
a forehand into the net.  “Rafa was able to dictate with the forehand,” Murray said
in a news conference. His loss extended the 75-year-long Grand
Slam singles championship drought for British men stretching
back to Fred Perry’s victory in the U.S. National Championships
in 1936.  Murray converted just three of 18 break points, and Nadal
was able to save his serve in what he called “the important
moments” on a blustery 25th birthday.  “There were very difficult conditions, with the wind
changing a lot,” Nadal said in a courtside interview.  Nadal converted six of his 13 break points and sank to his
knees on the clay when the match ended.  After crowning an unbeaten run on European clay courts last
year with his fifth  French Open  trophy, Nadal had been full of
doubts about his form this year.  Rafa’s Doubts  He told reporters after the fourth round that his level of
play wasn’t good enough to tie Bjorn Borg’s record for
championships in the era of professional tennis. Just like after
his opening-round match against  John Isner  of the U.S., when he
was taken to a fifth set for the first time at the French Open,
Nadal said he had been “too anxious” and “nervous.”  He said he regained his confidence in the quarterfinals,
where he defeated  Robin Soderling , the only man to have beaten
him at Roland Garros, in straight sets.  “My level changed in the quarterfinals,” Nadal said. “My
confidence came back and now I feel much better.”  Nadal will play either  Roger Federer , the most successful
men’s player in Grand Slam history with 16 major titles, or
Novak Djokovic of Serbia, 41-0 this season, in the final in two
days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 