-- 
Transgaz May Pay Dividends on Nabucco Delay, Raiffeisen Says

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-06-03T22:46:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/transat-may-pay-dividends-on-nabucco-delay-raiffeisen-says-1-.html
The shareholders of Transgaz SA will
probably approve a dividend payment from last year’s profit
after the construction of Nabucco Gas Pipeline was delayed by a
year, easing the financing pressure on the state-owned company,
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  said.  The brokerage estimates that Transgaz will have to
contribute with as much as 50 million lei ($17.5 million) to
Nabucco project this year to cover operating and pipeline
projecting expenses, and another 30 million lei next year,
Iuliana Mocanu, an analyst at Raiffeisen’s Capital and
Investment unit, wrote in a note to clients today.  The shareholders of Transgaz, Romania’s state-owned natural
gas transmissions company, in April rejected a dividend payment
from 2010 profit as they planned to reinvest the income so that
the company has sufficient money to participate in the Nabucco
project, which plans to transport natural gas through  Europe 
from the  Caspian region . The Nabucco venture decided in May to
postpone the start of construction until 2013.  Transgaz shareholders are expected to vote again on the
dividend payment proposal of 28.77 on June 9.  The postponing of the project “should ease to some extent
the financing burden for Transgaz,” Mocanu said in the note.
“We believe that the shareholders will most probably approve
the dividend. Still, the cash disbursements will be considerable
in 2011 and 2012, therefore we assumed a lower than previously
foreseen dividend pay-out ratio over the next years.”  The pipeline, a joint venture of Transgaz,  Germany ’s  RWE
AG (RWE) , Vienna-based  OMV AG (OMV) , Budapest-based Mol Nyrt., Bulgargaz EAD
and Ankara-based Boru Hatlari ile Petrol Tasima AS, is designed
to carry gas more than 3,900 kilometers (2,400 miles) from
Turkey to Austria to reduce European dependence on  Russia .  Raiffeisen lowered by 1.5 percent the price target for
Transgaz shares to 285 lei and kept the “hold” recommendation
for investors.  Transgaz shares fell 0.1 percent to 253.1 lei at the close
of trading in Bucharest, valuing the company at 2.98 billion
lei.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  