-- 
Rape Allegations at Barrick Mine Face Tanzanian Police Probe

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-06-03T17:13:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/rape-allegations-at-barrick-mine-face-tanzanian-police-probe.html
Tanzanian police said they are
investigating allegations of sexual assault by its officers and
security forces at the North Mara mine owned by a subsidiary of
Barrick Gold Corp., the world’s largest producer of the metal.  “We expect Barrick, who wrote to us, to lead us to the
victims as the starting point of the investigation,”
Constantine Massawe, regional police commander in Tarime, where
the mine is located, said today in a telephone interview. “We
have never received complaints of sexual assault at the mine
before.”  Barrick will make public the results of its own
investigation into the “highly disturbing” sexual-assault
allegations, the company said in a May 30  statement . The rape
claims follow a confrontation on May 16 in which Barrick  said 
hundreds of “armed intruders” stormed the mine to loot ore,
leading to five deaths.  The alleged sexual attacks were reported to have occurred
over the past two years, Andy Lloyd, a Barrick Gold spokesman,
said today in a telephone interview.  “We provided this information to police and requested that
they conduct an investigation,” he said.  The North Mara mine is operated by London-listed  African
Barrick Gold Ltd. (ABG) , which was created last year when Toronto-
based Barrick spun off its African operations. Barrick shares
have declined 15 percent on the Toronto Stock Exchange since
April 21, the last trading day before the company announced it
agreed to the C$7.3 billion ($7.5 billion) purchase of Equinox
Minerals Ltd., which owns the Lumwana copper mine in  Zambia .  NGO Investigation  The Legal and Human Rights Center, a Dar es Salaam-based
nongovernmental organization looking into the claims, said the
alleged victims are afraid to go to police.  “Victims claim to have been raped by police officers and
company security guards,” Flavian Charles, program officer at
the Legal and Human Rights Center, said in an interview
yesterday. “They also fear divorce when their husbands find out
they were raped.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net ;
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 