-- 
Treasury Two-Year Yields Drop to 2011 Low as U.S. Hiring Slowed Last Month

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-06-03T21:26:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/treasuries-rise-as-u-s-employers-add-fewer-jobs-in-may-than-forecast.html
Treasuries rose, pushing yields on
two-year notes to their lowest level this year, as U.S. job
growth in May was less than a third of what economists forecast
and the  unemployment rate  increased to 9.1 percent.  Two-year securities had their eighth straight weekly rally
on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will keep borrowing costs low
into next year. U.S. debt pared gains as Luxembourg’s Jean- Claude Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, said the European Union will approve a new relief
plan for  Greece .  “The economic data was very sobering as we continue to see
affirmation after affirmation of a domestic slowdown,” said
Christian Cooper, head of U.S. dollar derivatives trading in New
York at Jefferies Group Inc., one of the 20 primary dealers that
trade with the central bank. “The new aid plan for Greece is
taking some fear out of the markets.”  The yield on two-year notes dropped three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 0.43 percent at 5:23 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 0.5 percent
security due in May 2013 increased 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000
face amount, to 100 5/32.  The two-year note yield decreased five basis points this
week and earlier today touched 0.41 percent, the lowest level
since Nov. 9. The yield is 19 basis points higher than the fed
funds target, the smallest spread since December. The 10-year
note yield dropped four basis points to 2.99 percent, extending
its weekly drop to nine basis points.  U.S. Payrolls  Nonfarm payrolls grew in May by 54,000 after an increase of
232,000 in the previous month, the Labor Department reported
today. The median forecast of 89 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for an increase of 165,000.  Treasuries rallied two days ago, pushing the 10-year note
yield below 3 percent for the first time in 2011, as ADP
Employer Services reported that companies added fewer jobs in
May than economists forecast and the  Institute for Supply
Management  said manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in
more than a year.  “The market’s glass was half full coming into the year,
but now it’s clearly half empty as investors have been taken on
a roller coaster ride with the economic data,” said  Sean Simko ,
who oversees $8 billion at SEI Investments Co. in Oaks,
 Pennsylvania . “You don’t want to fight the tape. There are a
lot of pieces of the recovery puzzle that is keeping the
Treasury market well bid.”  Fed Rate Outlook  As U.S. reports show the world’s largest economy is losing
momentum, traders have cut bets that the Fed will increase its
target rate for overnight lending early next year.  Futures contracts show the likelihood of an increase in the
fed funds target by the central bank’s March 2012 meeting fell
to 23 percent today, from 26 percent yesterday. The Fed has held
its benchmark at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The central bank bought $6.9 billion of securities due from
August 2018 to May 2021 today to support the economy under its
$600 billion second round of quantitative easing. The program,
also known as QE2, expires this month.  “People will start talking about QE3,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at Bank of Nova Scotia in New
York. “The economy looks like it’s turning south.”  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said QE3 is
unlikely even with the economy adding fewer jobs. Policy makers
are like to “extend the extended period” language, Gross said
in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene , referring to the amount of time the central bank plans to
keep rates low.  Greece Rescue  Bonds pared gains today as EU and International Monetary
Fund officials agreed to pay the next installment to Greece
under last year’s 110 billion-euro ($161 billion) bailout,
paving the way for an upgraded aid package that includes a
“voluntary” role for investors.  Greece’s Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will set up an
agency to manage an accelerated asset-sale effort and make
“significant” cuts in public-sector employment, according to a
statement released today in  Athens .  The yield on 10-year German bunds,  Europe ’s benchmark debt
securities, increased seven basis points to 3.06 percent after
falling on America’s payrolls report.  U.S. debt  dropped yesterday after Moody’s Investors Service
said it expects to place the government’s Aaa rating under
review for possible downgrade if there is no progress on
increasing the statutory debt limit in coming weeks.  The Treasury Department reiterated this week that U.S.
authority to borrow under the $14.29 trillion debt limit will
expire Aug. 2.  Government Auctions  The U.S. government will auction $32 billion of three-year
notes, $21 billion of 10-year debt and $13 billion of 30-year
bonds in three offerings beginning June 7, the Treasury
Department announced yesterday.  “Even at these low levels, supply should be well spoken
for next week,” said  Richard Bryant , head of Treasury trading
in New York at the primary dealer MF Global Inc., referring to
yields at this year’s low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  