-- 
Treasuries Head for Weekly Gain on Speculation Job Gains Slowed

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-06-03T12:20:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/treasuries-head-for-third-weekly-gain-as-data-signals-slowing-job-growth.html
Treasuries rose, headed for a third
consecutive weekly advance, before a report that economists
predict will show U.S. employers hired fewer workers in May.  U.S. bonds recovered from a slump yesterday, when 10-year
Treasuries posted the steepest intraday drop in almost three
months. Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday that it will
put the U.S. Aaa rating under review for a cut unless the
government makes progress on increasing its debt limit. Signs
that the world’s biggest economy is slowing helped keep
benchmark yields within about eight basis points of this year’s
low of 2.94 percent, reached on June 1.  “Treasuries have been in a fairly decisive bullish trend
for some time now, and this is just a continuation,” said  Luca Jellinek , head of European interest-rate strategy at Credit
Agricole SA’s corporate- and investment-banking unit in  London .
“It’s very much on the back of the weak economic data coming
out of the U.S., which confirms those views in the market that
the recovery is going to be slow and gradual.”  Ten-year yields were one basis point lower at 3.03 percent
at 8:18 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 3.125 percent note maturing in May 2021 rose 1/32,
or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100 27/32.  The yield has fallen 15 basis points in three weeks. The
decline was interrupted yesterday when the yield increased nine
basis points, the most since Feb. 8.  ‘Soft Patch’  Payrolls probably rose by 165,000, the smallest gain in
four months, after increasing 244,000 in April, according to the
median of 89 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of economists
before the Labor Department report. The jobless rate fell to 8.9
percent from 9 percent, the survey shows.  “The U.S. is going through a soft patch,” said Jaemin Cheong, a bond trader in  Seoul  at Industrial Bank of  Korea , the
nation’s largest lender to small- and mid-sized companies.
“Most investors prefer the quality of Treasuries. The rally can
go on.”  The U.S. plans to auction $32 billion of three-year notes,
$21 billion of 10-year debt and $13 billion of 30-year bonds
next week, the Treasury Department said yesterday, matching
forecasts of 10 primary dealers in a Bloomberg News survey.  The $66 billion total compares with $72 billion when the
U.S. sold this combination of securities in May.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has warned that a
failure to raise the debt ceiling by Aug. 2, the date he now
projects the borrowing authority will be exhausted, may have
catastrophic effects on the U.S. economy by raising borrowing
costs. Republican lawmakers are using the debt-ceiling talks to
press for cuts in  government spending .  Debt Ceiling  “If the negotiating stances of the two parties continue to
be where they are now, in other words very far apart, and an
agreement on the raising of the debt limit continues to look
remote, probably by mid-July we would consider putting the
rating on review for downgrade,” said  Steven Hess , senior
credit officer at Moody’s in New York.  In April,  Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S. on notice that it
risks losing its AAA rating unless policy makers agree on a plan
to reduce budget deficits and the national debt.  Treasury bears say the economy isn’t slowing enough to
sustain the decline in yields. Investors should bet against 10-
year notes, analysts led by  Michael Cloherty  at RBC Capital
Markets Corp. in New York wrote in a report yesterday.  “Yes, the U.S. economy is not growing as fast as some
expected, but the slowdown does not seem large enough to keep
driving bond yields even lower, or even justify current
yields,” according to RBC, one of the 20 primary dealers
authorized to trade directly with the  Federal Reserve .  Rate Outlook  Ten-year rates will advance to 4.13 percent by the middle
of next year, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and
securities companies, with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings.  U.S. government debt  returned 1.6 percent last month, the
most since August, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes, with the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  and signs of a
slowdown in America’s economy spurring refuge demand.  The Fed’s policy of quantitative easing failed to meet the
“ultimate objective” of boosting employment and economic
growth, according to Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer
at Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund.  QE2  While the bond-purchase program pushed investors into
higher-yielding assets such as stocks, the “transmission
mechanism” to lower unemployment by driving more money into the
economy didn’t work, El-Erian said yesterday in a radio
interview from  Newport Beach ,  California , on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  The Fed began the second round of asset purchases, known as
QE2, in November after buying $1.7 trillion in securities
through last year, increasing the amount of money in circulation
to prevent deflation. The current purchases of $600 billion in
Treasuries are due to end this month.  The central bank is scheduled to buy $6 billion to $8
billion of securities due from August 2018 to May 2021 today
under the plan.  Traders cut bets on inflation as reports showed the  U.S.
economy  is waning. Data this week signaled that manufacturing
and hiring are slowing.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, has narrowed to
2.25 percentage points from this year’s high of 2.67 percentage
points in April. The 10-year average is 2.10 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  