-- 
IRS Suggests Changes to Widen Use of Anti-Poverty Tax Break

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-06-03T22:14:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/treasury-department-suggests-changes-to-anti-poverty-tax-credit.html
The U.S. Treasury Department proposed
changes to an anti-poverty tax credit program that has drawn
scrutiny from some members of Congress.  The  changes  to the New Markets Tax Credit are designed to
make the program’s benefits more readily available to businesses
outside the real estate industry. Through 2009, 35 percent of
money invested through the program has gone to non-real estate
businesses, according to the proposed regulations issued today
by the Treasury Department and the  Internal Revenue Service . The
agencies are seeking public comments on the proposals.  “Revisions of the reinvestment rules of the new markets
tax credit program would have a positive impact on the ability
of the program to benefit non-real-estate businesses in low-
income communities,” the agencies said in the description of
their proposal.  Bloomberg Markets magazine reported in March that some of
the nation’s biggest financial companies, including  Prudential
Financial Inc. (PRU)  and  US Bancorp (USB) , have received federal tax credits
through the program of 39 cents on the dollar paid over seven
years for providing money or loans to build high-end commercial
projects. Many are located in areas enjoying economic
resurgence.  One project highlighted in the article was the $116 million
remodeling in 2008 of the Blackstone Hotel in  Chicago .  Calls for Overhaul  Five Democratic members of Congress from the Chicago area,
including Representative  Jan Schakowsky , called for an overhaul
of the program.  “We believe the definition of low-income community should
be reexamined so that we can be sure that the tax credits are
used more efficiently to support business growth in low-income
communities that truly need the assistance,” the House members
said in a letter to Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and
Donna Gambrell, a Treasury official who oversees the program.  The changes announced today, which Geithner had previewed
during a small-business conference in March, don’t alter the
geographic rules that define where the credits can be used.
Those rules are based on poverty and income levels in Census
tracts.  The proposed regulations will make it easier for lenders to
finance investments in businesses in low-income areas, said Bob
Rapoza, who heads the New Markets Tax Credit Coalition, a
Washington-based group that represents banks and local groups.  “New Markets Tax Credit is one of the most cost-effective
ways to create jobs and drive investment in areas with high
rates of poverty and unemployment,” he said in an e-mailed
statement. “The coalition proposed enhancements for lending and
investing for operating businesses over 18 months ago and is
pleased with the progress on this important matter.”  Treasury officials, including Gambrell, have defended the
program, saying that the $10.1 billion awarded in credits
through 2009 have spurred $16 billion in investment in projects
across the country in low-income communities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  