-- 
Reliance Slides as Ambani Fails to Explain Gas Output Drop

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-06-03T11:44:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/reliance-industries-to-be-debt-free-by-march-mukesh-ambani-says.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , India’s
biggest company by market value, declined the most in more than
two weeks after billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  failed to
indicate when the company will increase natural gas production.  The shares fell 1.7 percent to 934.60 rupees at the close
in Mumbai, the most since May 18.  Reliance has trailed the benchmark Sensitive Index, in
which it has the highest weighting, since July, after failing to
increase production from the nation’s biggest gas deposit.
Ambani, 54, told shareholders today the company and BP Plc will
jointly assess “technical issues in ramping up production” at
the KG-D6 field after getting government approval for their
partnership.  “In today’s speech, there wasn’t any clarity on when gas
production will increase or why it’s falling,” said Apurva Shah, vice president and head of institutional research at
Prabhudas Lilladher Ltd. “The absence of any news is the bad
news here.”  Gas output from the KG-D6 field off  India ’s east coast has
dropped 17 percent from a peak of about 60 million cubic meters
a day set in June. Production is about 50 million cubic meters a
day, according to India’s oil regulator.  Output fell because of declining pressure at the reservoir,
a person with direct knowledge of the matter said April 11. The
company needs another year to complete field studies, the person
said. The drop in output led Reliance to post the slowest growth
in profit in six quarters in the three months ended March 31.  BP Cash  Reliance will get $7.2 billion from BP, which is acquiring
a 30 percent stake in 23 of its oil and gas fields in India, and
may receive an additional $1.8 billion linked to discoveries.  “The amount from BP -- $9 billion -- is largely going to
take care of debt,” said Deven Choksey, managing director of
K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. “Every year,
they will be generating $4 billion, which will help them grow in
all of their verticals at a faster pace.”  The explorer and refiner had outstanding debt of 674
billion rupees ($15 billion) as of March 31 and cash and
equivalents of 423.9 billion rupees, the company said in its
earnings statement on April 21.  “Reliance will be completely debt-free, net of cash
balances within this year 2011-12,” Ambani said. “All these
reflect a robust financial position and a sound balance sheet,”
which will help the company finance emerging opportunities, he
said.  Spending Plan  Ambani told shareholders in 2009 that the company may
become debt-free in less than two years.  The chairman made no reference to  power plants  in his
address today. Ambani told shareholders last year that the
company plans to bid for ultra mega power projects offered by
the federal government, each with a capacity of about 4,000
megawatts, and make large investments in nuclear and solar
energy and telecommunications.  Reliance may spend $30 billion on petrochemicals, oil and
gas exploration and telecommunications in the five years ending
March 2015, according to Sandeep Randery, an analyst with Brics
Securities Ltd. in Mumbai, who cited estimates given by Reliance
in an investor conference in February. As much as $4.7 billion
may be spent on telecommunications, he said.  Ambani outlined a plan in 2009 for growth focused on five
areas, including energy, renewable energy, services such as
organized retailing, and improving income and skills of people
in rural areas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  