-- 
Resourcehouse Considers Cutting IPO Price

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-06-03T01:31:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/resourcehouse-considers-cutting-ipo-price.html
Resourcehouse Ltd., the Australian
coal and iron-ore company seeking to raise as much as $3.6
billion in a  Hong Kong  share sale, may cut the price of the
offering, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The company may sell shares below a price range of HK$4.48
to HK$4.93 marketed to investors after failing to get orders for
all the stock, the people said, declining to be identified as
the process is private. Andrew Crook, an outside spokesman for
Resourcehouse owner  Clive Palmer , wasn’t immediately available
to comment.  Palmer, a 57-year-old law school dropout who made his
fortune in real estate, is seeking to take advantage of near-
record commodity prices driven by demand from  China . The
Brisbane, Australia-based company won’t turn a profit until 2014
or 2015 when output at its coal and iron ore projects is
forecast to begin.  Resourcehouse wants to develop an iron ore mine in Western
 Australia  that will cost at least A$2.7 billion and an $8.6
billion  coal mine  in Australia’s Queensland state. About $2.4
billion of the money raised will be used to develop the coal
project and $700 million will be allocated to the iron ore
project.  The company planned to sell at least 5.7 billion shares.
Palmer will retain a 53.67 percent stake in the company if an
over allotment option to sell 857 million more isn’t exercised.
The shares are expected to start trading June 10.  China Railway Group Ltd. (390)  and Metallurgical Corp. of China
Ltd. have both agreed to invest about $200 million in
Resourcehouse. The company said the IPO may be followed by a
A$1.9 billion debt sale to a Chinese company.  BOC International Holdings Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG are managing the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  