-- 
Roche’s Tarceva Stalls Lung Cancer With Gene Mutation in Late-Stage Study

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-06-03T06:32:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/roche-s-tarceva-stalls-lung-cancer-with-gene-mutation-in-late-stage-study.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest
maker of cancer drugs, said its Tarceva medicine kept a form of
advanced lung tumor at bay for almost twice as long as standard
treatment in a late-stage clinical trial.  Tarceva stalled  non-small-cell lung cancer  for 9.7 months
in patients with a gene mutation called EGFR, compared with 5.2
months in patients given chemotherapy, Basel, Switzerland-based
Roche said today in an e-mailed statement. The medicine was
given as an initial therapy to patients. The study findings are
being presented at a meeting of the American Society of Clinical
Oncology, which begins today in  Chicago .  Roche in January halted the trial, called Eurtac, early
because Tarceva had already met the primary goal of the study.
The drug won U.S. approval in 2004 to treat non-small-cell  lung
cancer  and is also cleared for pancreatic tumors. Roche has
asked European regulators to expand use of the medicine to
include initial therapy for lung cancer linked to the EGFR gene
mutation. Tarceva generated revenue of 1.33 billion Swiss francs
($1.58 million) in 2010.  “This is an important step forward in our goal of
providing personalized options for people with advanced lung
cancer,”  Hal Barron , Roche’s head of global development, said
in the statement.  Tarceva works by blocking a protein called epidermal growth
factor that helps cancer cells spread. Roche said in November it
would develop a companion diagnostic test for Tarceva to
identify EGFR mutations.  The Swiss drugmaker splits profit from Tarceva earned in
the U.S. with OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. and pays royalties from
sales in the rest of the world.  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503) ,  Japan ’s
second-largest drugmaker, last year bought Melville,  New York- 
based OSI for $4 billion.  Lung cancer is one of the most common cancers, striking
more than 1.35 million people worldwide each year. It’s the
leading cause of cancer death in the U.S., killing an estimated
157,300 a year, according to the  American Cancer Society .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  