-- 
Romania May Have to Begin Monetary Policy Tightening, IMF Says

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-06-03T06:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/romania-may-have-to-begin-monetary-policy-tightening-imf-says.html
Romania ’s central bank may have to
tighten monetary policy in the coming months to mop up market
liquidity as “significant” inflationary pressures build,
International Monetary Fund’s Mission Chief Jeffrey Franks said.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei, which has the European
Union’s highest benchmark interest rate at 6.25 percent, has
“to move to a tightening bias” to meet its inflation target of
3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point, next year, Franks
said in a phone interview from  Washington  yesterday.  Policy makers around the world are struggling to contain
inflation fueled by rising food and energy prices. Romania’s
central bank left the main rate unchanged for a 12th consecutive
month on May 3 and raised the inflation rate forecast for the
end of the year to 5.1 percent from 3.6 percent. The inflation
rate stood at 8.3 percent in April.  “There is no doubt that inflation pressures are
significant in Romania right now,” Franks said. “There needs
to be a move to a tightening bias, some mopping of liquidity
would be appropriate, and then let’s see what the inflation
forecasts look like for 2012. And if, at some point in the
future there is a need, the central bank should act
accordingly.”  The bank will try and limit exchange-rate volatility as
“probable massive foreign capital inflows” put pressure on the
leu to appreciate, Governor Mugur Isarescu said on May 25.  Inflows of capital to Romania will force the bank to make
difficult monetary-policy decisions and use “unorthodox
measures” to prevent exchange-rate volatility, according to
Isarescu.  The leu has gained 3.5 percent against the euro this year,
the third-best performer in central and eastern  Europe  after the
Serbian dinar and the Hungarian forint, Bloomberg data show. It
was at 4.1335 per euro yesterday in Bucharest.  ‘Excessive’ Controls  “As the economy recovers, we don’t want to return into a
situation where we had excessive capital inflows in Romania and
where we had risks of pushing ourselves onto the high-inflation
and high current-account deficit side,” Franks said. “We need
to guard against both the downside risks and also excessive
upside risks for the economy as we go into the next year or
two.”  Romania’s current-account deficit narrowed 59 percent in
the first quarter to 634 million euros ($919 million) as foreign
direct investment into the Balkan country fell 22 percent to 379
million euros from 486 million euros in the same period of 2010.  Franks sees no signs of spillover effects to Romania
through banks from the euro-region’s sovereign-debt crisis that
made  Greece  take a 110 billion-euro rescue. Greece has a 50
percent chance of defaulting, Moody’s Investors Service said on
June 1, when it downgraded its rating to Caa1 from B1, putting
it on a par with Cuba.  The Mediterranean country is facing a funding gap of 30
billion euros next year and is shut out of the capital markets
with yields on its 10-year bonds of more than 16 percent.  “The local subsidiaries of Greek banks are liquid and well
capitalized,” Franks said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  