-- 
Ron Paul Dismisses Boehner’s Dollar-for-Dollar Debt-Cut Demand

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-06-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/ron-paul-dismisses-boehner-s-dollar-for-dollar-debt-cut-demand.html
Republican presidential candidate  Ron Paul  dismissed House Speaker  John Boehner ’s call for spending
cuts to match any increase in the federal debt ceiling. A fiscal
catastrophe is coming whether or not the country exhausts its
borrowing power, he said.  “I don’t take it seriously,” the Texas congressman said
of Boehner’s demand. Paul predicted Congress would “go up to
the last minute” before the Aug. 2 deadline and then raise the
nation’s $14.3 trillion legal debt limit, yet fail to solve the
problems underlying the nation’s soaring deficits.  “The catastrophe comes regardless, because as long as they
encourage more spending, then we go over a cliff,” Paul said in
an interview for “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend. “So I want to stop us,” said Paul, who said he will
vote against raising the limit.  He dismissed discussion of a cap on future spending, saying
it would be “too little, too late.”  “Do you think the American people are going to believe
that we’re going to cut in the future?” added Paul, 75. He said
any reductions promised beyond this year’s budget amount to
“pie-in-the-sky talking.”  On presidential politics, Paul said that while other
Republican candidates seeking to take on President Barack Obama
in 2012 are echoing his themes on spending and debt, he is the
only one who has a record that matches the rhetoric.  ‘Credibility Gap’  “I think there will be a credibility gap” for the other
contenders, Paul said, responding to a question about potential
primary opponents including former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.  Voters “know that I’m leveling with them, and I’ve done it
all along, and I’ve expressed these concerns for 20, 30 years,”
he said.  Paul, an advocate of abolishing the  Federal Reserve , said
while he doesn’t expect other candidates to rally around the
idea, they “won’t laugh as much as they did last time” he ran
for the Republican presidential nomination.  “Just think of the difference on the attitude of the
people now about the Federal Reserve,” Paul said, noting that
Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  took the unprecedented step April 27
of holding a news conference to defend his policies. “It’s a
failed system, and people are starting to realize this.”  A self-described libertarian whose anti-establishment views
align with Tea Party activists’ disdain for government, Paul
developed a national following during his failed 2008 bid for
his party’s presidential nomination.  Afghanistan ,  Pakistan   Paul said he favors withdrawing all U.S. troops from
Afghanistan, Pakistan and  Libya  -- countries where he never
supported sending them. He said other Republican presidential
candidates are “making a big mistake” by backing a continued
U.S. military presence there.  “The people now know that we can’t pay it,” Paul said,
“and a lot of conservatives are coming in our direction because
we can’t pay it.”  “I’d bring them all home, sure, because we have no reason
to be there,” he said.  Paul said Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  and
former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, two possible rivals for the
Republican nomination who also style themselves as populist
conservatives, are “closer to the people” than other
candidates and are starting to move in his direction on foreign
policy and civil liberties issues.  Still, asked whether he understood Palin’s economic agenda,
Paul said, “No,” adding, “I haven’t studied them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  