-- 
Rules Study Backed by Republicans ‘Deeply Flawed,’ Sunstein Says

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-06-03T15:46:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/rules-study-backed-by-republicans-deeply-flawed-sunstein-says.html
A U.S.  Small Business Administration 
study estimating regulations cost $1.75 trillion is “deeply
flawed,” the Obama administration’s rules chief said, as
Republicans said new rules are hurting job growth.  The  study  by Nicole V. Crain and W. Mark Crain of Lafayette
College in Easton,  Pennsylvania , has “become a bit of an urban
legend,” Cass Sunstein, director of the White House Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs, testified today to a
congressional hearing.  Sunstein said the Office of Management and Budget reached a
different conclusion, finding that rules such as environmental
or worker safety protections often have a net benefit for the
economy.  Republican lawmakers said a rush of regulations from the
Obama administration is to blame for a weak U.S. job market, and
cited the study’s finding to support their complaint.
Unemployment unexpectedly rose to 9.1 percent in May from 9
percent in April, the Labor Department reported today.  “The biggest obstacle we’re having about jobs is
regulation and regulatory overreach,” Representative Marsha Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican, said at the hearing of a
House Energy and Commerce Committee panel on oversight and
investigations. “All of the regulations coming out of this town
are not helping employers.”  The administration said May 26 that 30 U.S. agencies are
seeking to repeal or modify regulations in an effort to reduce
reporting requirements and save businesses and individuals
billions of dollars in compliance costs.  ‘Flawed System’  The effort to eliminate unnecessary regulations has so far
failed to slow the process, said Republicans such as
Representative Cliff Stearns of  Florida , chairman of the
subcommitee.  “New regulations affecting many sectors of industry and
aspects of American life are being promulgated under the same
flawed system that produced the regulations identified today,”
Stearns said. “Enormously expensive regulations have sped
through the review process on” Sunstein’s “watch with little
or no opportunity for meaningful public comment.”  Among revisions proposed by the Obama administration is
elimination of a requirement in some states for vapor recovery
systems at gas stations and changes in labeling mandates for
hazardous materials.  The changes are the result of a review President  Barack Obama  ordered on Jan. 18, saying he wanted “to remove outdated
regulations that stifle  job creation  and make our economy less
competitive.”  ‘Spilt Milk’  The review has resulted in an exemption for the  dairy
industry  from Environmental Protection Agency rules that defined
milk as an “oil” and subjected farmers to regulations designed
to cover oil spills.  The change means the dairy industry won’t “cry over spilt
milk,” Sunstein said today, saying the changes could save the
milk and dairy industries $1.4 billion over 10 years in clean-up
costs.  The review didn’t include independent agencies set up by
Congress, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
 Federal Reserve , the Federal Communications Commission and the
Federal Trade Commission, which exercise regulatory authority
over industries such as finance and telecommunications.  Sunstein said today that so far the EPA is complying with
the intent of the review, and that he is hopeful other
independent agencies will participate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  