-- 
Russia’s Etalon Plans Moscow Growth to Double Building, CEO Says

-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 
2011-06-03T13:22:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/russia-s-etalon-plans-moscow-growth-to-double-building-ceo-says.html
Etalon Group Ltd.,  Russia ’s first
developer to hold an initial offering since the financial
crisis, seeks to expand in Moscow and double construction volume
from 2007 levels by 2014, said Chief Executive Vyacheslav Zarenkov.  The St. Petersburg-based developer of “mass-market”
apartment blocks plans to construct 319,000 square meters (3.4
million square feet) of housing this year, with 96,000 square
meters in Moscow’s metropolitan area and the rest in  St.
Petersburg , Zarenkov, who is also the chairman of the company,
said in an interview in London yesterday. That’s 53 percent more
than last year, when the company built 209,000 square meters,
all in St. Petersburg.  Economic growth and rising wages are fueling a “revival of
demand” for housing, pushing Russia to increase residential
construction by 5 million square meters to 63 million square
meters this year, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  told lawmakers
in Moscow on April 20. Many Russians still suffer from crowded,
dilapidated living conditions, according to Putin.  “For us, stability is the key,” Zarenkov said. There is a
“huge demand” for housing and “straight-forward projects and
stable prices is what we target” instead of going after the
wealthiest Russians, he said.  Prices of apartments targeting “middle-income” Russians
in St. Petersburg and Moscow’s metropolitan area are set to rise
about 7 percent this year and fully recover to pre-crisis levels
by the end of 2012 after gaining an additional 6 percent, he
estimated. Etalon aims to double construction from 2007 levels
to 800,000 square meters by 2014.  London IPO  Etalon, St. Petersburg’s biggest developer after LSR Group,
raised $575 million in an IPO in  London  in April, selling 82.1
million global depository receipts for $7 each, even as five
other Russian companies, including Euroset Holding NV, a mobile-
phone operators, and metals producer OAO Koks, postponed plans
to sell shares, citing weak demand. Etalon’s shares rose 1.4
percent to $7.10 by 1:48 p.m. in London trading.  The company plans to use 70 percent of its net IPO proceeds
to buy new projects, including factories with sizable land
plots, in St. Petersburg, Moscow and the capital’s closest
surrounding area, Zarenkov said.  “We don’t plan to enter any other regions in the next
three years,” he said. “But if we see a very attractive
project, we can’t rule it out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  