-- 
Russia Won’t Lift Ban on EU Vegetables to Enhance Its WTO Bid, Putin Says

-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 
2011-06-03T14:09:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/russia-won-t-lift-ban-on-eu-vegetables-to-enhance-its-wto-bid-putin-says.html
Russia won’t lift a ban on imports of
vegetables from  Europe , imposed after an E.coli outbreak, to
appease the European Union and enhance its bid to join the  World
Trade Organization , Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said.  More than 1,600 people across Europe have been infected and
17 have died in the outbreak that started in  Germany , according
to the World Health Organization. The German government
initially said cucumbers from  Spain  were to blame, though tests
failed to confirm this. Spain will seek EU aid to compensate for
damage to its cucumber producers.  Russia suspended imports of German and Spanish tomatoes,
lettuce and cucumbers on May 30 in response to the outbreak and
yesterday extended the ban to all EU fresh vegetables. The EU
has sought an immediate withdrawal of the Russian ban. The
bloc’s envoy in Moscow today said that  Russia , the largest
economy outside the WTO, could follow its “rules and
principles” even now, the Interfax news service reported.  “All the countries of Europe have been quarrelling over
these cucumbers and now they’re trying to drag us into it,”
Putin told reporters in Sochi today. “The EU says Russia’s
decision contradicts the spirit of the WTO, but we can’t poison
people because of some spirit.”  Russia is seeking clarification from the EU on the quality
of its vegetables, Putin said, adding that he’ll review the
grounds for the government’s import ban.  ‘Intensive Work’  Russia’s consumer-safety watchdog said the government may
lift the ban if German and EU authorities inform Russia of the
cause of the outbreak and explain how it spread. The EU is
involved in “intensive work” to identify the source, Health
and Consumer Policy Commissioner John Dalli said on June 1.  The Russian agency is also monitoring passengers and
vehicles that arrive from countries affected by the outbreak.  Agriculture Minister  Yelena Skrynnik  said today that Russia
has enough vegetables to meet domestic demand without imports
from the EU. The 27-nation bloc accounted for 11 percent of
Russian tomato imports and 5 percent of its cucumbers last year,
according to the ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Sochi at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at   msweetman@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  