-- 
Scene Last Night: Ron Perelman, Ray Kelly, Jon Bon Jovi, NYPD

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-06-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/scene-last-night-perelman-bon-jovi-at-new-city-police-foundation-s-gala.html
Ron Perelman slipped on the shiny
black jacket, turned around to show off its gold “NYPD”
letters on the back, and raised both arms in triumph, to whoops
and hollers.  The chairman and chief executive officer of MacAndrews &
Forbes Holdings Inc. was on the stage of the Waldorf Astoria
ballroom last night as the honoree of the  New York  City Police
Foundation’s 40th anniversary gala.  Backed by firms like JPMorgan Chase (which recently donated
$4.6 million for technology modernization), and individuals such
as Mark Kingdon, president and founder of Kingdon Capital
Management LLC, the foundation supports NYPD initiatives such as
Crime Stoppers and the International Liaison Program, which
sends officers abroad to share their expertise with other police
forces.  Perelman, who has supported the foundation for two decades,
wore the NYPD jacket for the duration of the event, which he
spent mingling at a table covered in dark blue satin and
decorated with white hydrangeas in a gold box.  Across from him sat Jon Bon Jovi, in a shiny gray suit,
sipping tea before his performance with the New York City Police
Band.  Perelman played the drums alongside Bon Jovi, whom he
described as “one of my closest friends in the world.”  Chevy Chase   Other friends of Perelman’s on hand were  Michael Douglas ,
director Penny Marshall, Steve Guttenberg, Kevin Jonas and Chevy Chase, all of whom politely abandoned their chicken and sweet
pea risotto to pose for photographs with star-struck guests.  New York City Police Commissioner Ray Kelly (who sat next
to Bon Jovi during dinner) took the stage to present the
Hemmerdinger Awards for Excellence to Criminalist III Katharine
Ferrante, Sergeant Herve Guiteau, and auto mechanic Norman Kara.
A police helicopter crew, composed of Special Operations
Division Detectives Fernando Almeida, Steve Browning, Chris
Condon, Michael Sileo, and William Stevens received the Chuck
Barris Foundation “Cop of the Year” award for rescuing two
West Point cadets from a ledge on Storm King Mountain.  Chase had a blanket compliment for all New York City police
officers. “I’ve always loved New York cops,” he said standing
near the bar at the cocktail reception earlier in the evening.
“They have a sense of humor, they’re slovenly, but you know
that they can save your life in a second.”  The event drew 700 guests and raised almost $2.3 million.
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, was a sponsor.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 