-- 
Sealed Air Leads $7.8 Billion in Loans for Diversey Buyout on Surge in M&A

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 
2011-06-03T13:19:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/sealed-air-leads-7-8-billion-in-committed-buyout-loans-amid-surge-in-m-a.html
Sealed Air Corp. (SEE) , the food-packaging
maker that’s buying Diversey Holdings Inc., received $3.8
billion in committed loans to fund the purchase as financing for
mergers and acquisitions increases.  Ashland Inc. (ASH) , the maker of Valvoline motor oil, also said
this week it’s seeking $3.65 billion in loans to back its buyout
of chemicals manufacturer International Specialty Products Inc.,
bringing the amount of loans announced this week to fund
takeovers to $7.8 billion.  Loans arranged last month to back mergers and acquisitions
increased to 23.4 percent of all new loan deals, up from 9
percent in April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
companies seek to line up financing before deals fall off during
the summer months.  “The pipeline of M&A deals continues to build,” said
Darin Schmalz, a director at  Fitch Ratings  in  Chicago . “M&A
activity has been rather slow thus far in 2011 but based on the
substantial M&A pipeline, one could expect a lot more M&A
issuance to hit the loan market before the end of the summer.”  Ashland’s financing package will include a $1.7 billion
term loan B, a $1.2 billion term loan A, and a $750 million line
of credit, according to an investor presentation on the
company’s website.  About $1.2 billion of the proceeds from the term loans will
be used to refinance International Specialty’s existing debt,
according to a June 1 report by rating company Moody’s Investors
Service. Moody’s placed Ashland’s Ba1 corporate rating on review
for a possible downgrade.  Price Drop      Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp., Bank of Nova Scotia
and US Bancorp are providing the financing commitments,
Covington, Kentucky-based Ashland said in a May 31 statement
distributed by PR Newswire.  Leverage, or debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, will be 3.5 times at closing,
according to the presentation.  A term loan B is sold mainly to non-bank lenders such as
collateralized loan obligations, bank loan mutual funds and
 hedge funds . A term loan A is sold mainly to banks.  Loan prices fell 0.7 cent, or 0.73 percent, in May, the
biggest drop since the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged
Loan 100 Index fell 0.76 cent last June as indications emerged
of weakness in the  U.S. economy  and sovereign-debt worries in
 Europe  spooked investors.  Economists lowered their U.S. growth forecasts for the
year, with a median estimate of 2.7 percent, compared with 3.2
percent three months ago, Bloomberg data show.  Greece  Downgrade  Moody’s downgraded Greece’s local and foreign currency bond
ratings to Caa1 from B1, putting the European country just four
steps above the rating firm’s lowest designation, according to a
June 1 report. The move came after policy makers considered
asking investors to reinvest in new Greek debt when outstanding
bonds mature.  The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index, which tracks
the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans,
dropped 0.03 cent June 1 to 95.14 cents on the dollar, its
lowest close since March 21.  Lender interest in the floating-rate asset class has grown
at a record pace. Inflows into bank-loan funds totaled $2.2
billion in May, or $21.2 billion year-to-date, according to a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. research report. Last year, $17.9 billion
of cash flowed into loan funds.  Loan ‘Imbalance’  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said yesterday
the Fed was monitoring the increasing demand for leveraged loans
as a possible indication of an “imbalance” that could be
curbed through regulation if necessary.  The central bank will “continue to watch conditions in the
leveraged-loan market closely in the coming months, and we will
speak out forcefully if we perceive pressures continuing to
build,” Yellen said in a speech in  Tokyo . “Strong demand has
been pushing prices higher in the syndicated loan market” and
“inflows into this asset class have indeed been robust and
prices have been rising quite rapidly.”  On Feb. 14, the S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
closed at 96.48 cents on the dollar, the highest level since
November 2007, and up from a low of 59.2 cents on Dec. 17, 2008,
three months after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Global mergers and acquisitions announced this year are up
21.5 percent from 2010 when they totaled $2.22 trillion,
Bloomberg data show. The value of the 10,618 deals this year
totals $1.02 trillion, compared with $839.8 billion in the same
period in 2010.  Risk Appetite  Sealed Air outlined this morning $3.8 billion of financing
committed by Citigroup Inc. and its affiliates to back its
acquisition of Diversey Holdings.  The financing package will include a $750 million five-year
term loan A, a $1.55 billion seven-year term loan B and a $1.5
billion one-year senior unsecured bridge loan, the Elmwood Park,
New Jersey-based company said today in a regulatory filing.  Sealed Air, maker of Cryovac food packaging and Bubble
Wrap, agreed to pay Diversey shareholders $2.1 billion in cash
and 31.7 million shares of Sealed Air stock. The purchase also
includes $1.4 billion of net debt to be refinanced, for a total
cost of $4.3 billion.  “There is more appetite for risk in the marketplace,”
said Fitch’s Schmalz. “Loan demand remains strong, supply
remains limited but has improved lately. Investors are still in
search for yield.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bravo in  New York  at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 