-- 
Lehman May Never Face Court Reckoning as SEC Enforcers Lean Toward Rebuke

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-06-03T22:07:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/sec-enforcers-said-to-weigh-release-of-report-on-lehman-abuses.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission investigators may issue a public rebuke of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and its former executives instead of
suing them for actions that led to the firm’s 2008 failure,
three people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  SEC enforcement lawyers, who have struggled for more than
two years to find definitive evidence that the company and its
leaders violated securities laws, are concerned that a legal
attack on Lehman’s accounting practices would likely fail, the
people said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations aren’t public.  Instead, the enforcement staff may recommend that the
agency take the rare step of publishing a so-called  report of
investigation , also known as a 21(a) report. The commission
would have to vote on whether to issue a report and it’s still
possible that the SEC may decide to bring legal claims in court,
the people said. The 21(a) reports, which lay out allegations of
misconduct without imposing penalties, have only been issued six
times in the past decade, according to the SEC’s website.  “The SEC can claim that this is decisive action and that
they’re on record as to the wrongdoing. It doesn’t meet the
inevitable resistance that civil action meets -- the possibility
of failure,” said Robert Hillman, a professor at the University
of  California , Davis, School of Law.  Kimberly Macleod , a spokesman for Lehman, declined to
comment. Patricia Hynes, an attorney at Allen & Overy LLP for
Lehman’s ex-chief executive officer Richard Fuld, and Robert
Cleary, a lawyer at Proskauer Rose LLP for former finance chief
Erin Callan, didn’t respond to e-mails. Florence Harmon, an SEC
spokesman, declined to comment.  Valukas Report  Lehman, which filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history
in September 2008, was faulted along with its former executives
in a report by  Anton Valukas , the court-appointed examiner, who
said they misled investors with “accounting gimmicks.” Valukas
alleged that Lehman used the technique, known as Repo 105s, to
hide billions of dollars in assets and artificially reduce the
firm’s leverage. The actions may not have violated accounting
rules, making it difficult for the SEC to pursue fraud claims.  If the SEC determines it can’t bring a case, airing its
findings may be the best option for fending off criticism from
lawmakers and investors who say the agency hasn’t been
aggressive in pursuing wrongdoing that fueled the financial
crisis, Hillman said.  James Cox , a securities law professor at  Duke University
School of Law , said it would be “disappointing” if the SEC
didn’t bring fraud charges against Lehman and its executives.  ‘Least Harmful’  The rebuke is “about the least harmful sanction anybody
could get,” Cox said.  Congress gave the SEC discretion to publicize findings of
investigations in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The
reports were meant to be a flexible tool to shine a spotlight on
questionable conduct that may not support an enforcement action,
said Steve Crimmins, a former SEC attorney who’s now a partner
at K&L Gates LLP in  Washington .  “It was adopted to help get the SEC where it needed to go
when the path was not all that clear,” Crimmins said. “The
reports tend to be used in borderline situations, where the SEC
feels the need to speak out about the broader significance of
something but for whatever reason feels it’s just not right to
bring a case.”  While the agency continues to weigh the possibility of
bringing civil fraud claims, it faces several hurdles, according
to the people.  Rule Changes  In April, the  Financial Accounting Standards Board  changed
its rule for how firms have to account for the short-term
transactions that let Lehman temporarily remove about $50
billion in assets from its balance sheet by treating them as
sales. FASB’s move may bolster the defense that the rule, not
Lehman’s application of it, was faulty.  Since Lehman is defunct, any enforcement action would
likely target individuals, such as Fuld and Callan, said Cox.  “The executives had to sign off that the financial
statements fairly presented the firm’s financial position,” Cox
said. “Even though the Repo 105s were perhaps in technical
compliance with GAAP, they were distorting the true economic
image of the firm.”  Ernst & Young LLP, Lehman’s auditor, was sued in December
by then-New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo , who’s now
governor, for signing off on Lehman’s quarterly financial
statements. The firm disputes the claims and hasn’t been accused
of wrongdoing by federal regulators.  Ernst’s ‘Hindsight’  In a May statement, Ernst & Young said regulators have made
“a series of changes to accounting and disclosure rules” since
the financial crisis that, “with the benefit of hindsight, are
significant improvements to the system that existed prior to
Lehman’s demise.”  The SEC could also focus on whether Lehman’s executives
deceived investors by falsely describing the treatments being
used, two people said. In September, the SEC proposed a  rule 
that would require companies to provide “a comprehensive
explanation of short-term borrowings.” Defense lawyers could
argue that the change shows that Lehman’s disclosures weren’t
deficient under current rules.  In response to Valukas’s report, Ernst & Young said
Lehman’s management discussion and analysis “were the
responsibility of management, not the auditor.”  In testimony to Congress last year, Fuld said Lehman
shouldn’t be criticized for complying with existing repo
accounting rules. He also said he had “absolutely no
recollection whatsoever” of hearing about the Repo 105s.  Regulatory Lapse  Defense lawyers for Lehman would likely try to turn any
allegations by the SEC back on the agency. Referring to his
interviews of executives, Valukas wrote that “a recurrent theme
in their response was that Lehman gave full and complete
financial information to government agencies” and that
regulators “never raised significant objections or directed
that Lehman take any corrective action.”  SEC examiners monitored Lehman’s financial health as part
of the Consolidated Supervised Entities program, which had been
set up in 2004 to guard against the collapse of systemically
important investment banks. The voluntary program was halted
after Lehman declared bankruptcy.  The commission issued two 21(a) reports last year. In
August, the SEC published results from a probe of  Moody’s Corp. (MCO) 
that found the company had chosen not to downgrade inflated
ratings on almost $1 billion of debt in 2007 out of concern for
the company’s reputation. The SEC said it didn’t pursue fraud
claims because the conduct occurred in  Europe , raising
uncertainty as to whether the agency had jurisdiction.  Banks Warned  In March 2010 the agency posted details of a probe
involving a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  vice chairman, faulting him for
raising money for former California Treasurer  Phil Angelides . A
JPMorgan subsidiary underwrote certain California bonds within
two years of the donation, even though securities rules bar
banks from doing so. The SEC used the report to reaffirm
guidance on the rule, warning banks that it also applies to
executives of parent bank holding companies.  The SEC has already made some public remarks about Lehman’s
accounting. After Valukas released his findings, the SEC sent
letters to financial firms in March 2010, asking for information
on their use of repos as it sought to “better understand”
their decisions. The agency hasn’t found evidence that
“inappropriate practices were widespread,” Chief Accountant
James Kroeker said at a May 2010 congressional hearing.  “So much of what went on here was neither clearly legal
nor clearly illegal,” the  University of California ’s Hillman
said. “It fell through the cracks in this case, and that makes
civil actions very, very difficult. The 21(a) report would be an
opportunity for the SEC and everyone else to move on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  