-- 
Sharp Forecasts Operating Profit to Rise on Solar, LCD Panels

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-06-03T06:28:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/sharp-forecasts-operating-profit-to-rise-on-solar-lcd-panels.html
Sharp Corp.,  Japan ’s largest maker of
liquid-crystal displays, said operating profit may rise 23
percent this year as the company boosts earnings from LCD and
solar panels.  Operating profit may increase to 97 billion yen ($1.2
billion) in the year ending March 31 from 78.9 billion yen a
year earlier, the Osaka-based company said in a statement today.
That compares with the 54.3 billion yen average of eight analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sharp expects profit from its LCD business will gain 87
percent to 32 billion yen as growing demand for smaller panels
used in mobile devices makes up for slower sales of large-sized
panels, the company said today. Profit from solar panels may
almost quadruple to 8 billion yen because of increasing demand
in Japan, Sharp said.  Revenue may rise 0.9 percent to 3.05 trillion yen in the 12
months started April 1 from 3.02 trillion yen a year earlier,
the company said in today’s statement.  Sharp is transforming its second-largest television panel
factory in Kameyama, central Japan, to produce small- and
medium-sized displays by the end of this year to tap growing
demand for mobile devices, it said in April. The company resumed
operations at its two biggest LCD factories in Japan on May 16
after suspending them due to a shortage of materials stemming
from the March 11 earthquake.  One-Time Charge  Sharp may take a one-time charge of 12 billion yen in the
fiscal first half to reorganize its LCD business and another 3
billion yen in the second half, President Mikio Katayama told
reporters in  Tokyo  today. Full-year net income may fall 69
percent to 6 billion yen, the company said in today’s statement.  Sales of solar panels may rise to 1,700 megawatts from
1,242 megawatts last fiscal year, Sharp said. LCD sales may be
little changed at 1.02 trillion yen, while deliveries of
televisions may increase to 15 million sets from 14.8 million,
the company said.  Sales of mobile phones are expected to drop to 9.6 million
units from 9.7 million, Sharp said in the statement.  Industrywide revenue from LCDs used as TV monitors  tumbled 
22 percent in the quarter ended March 31 from a year earlier,
with unit shipments declining 2 percent, researcher
DisplaySearch said last month. Oversupply of large-area LCDs has
continued for more than 12 months, the researcher said.  Sharp is aiming to benefit from smaller monitors. Shipments
of 9-inch and smaller displays jumped 23 percent last year to
1.89 billion, helped by demand for smartphones and digital
cameras, DisplaySearch said last month. Sharp  ranked No.2  with
13.6 percent revenue share among makers of those devices,
trailing Samsung Mobile Display Co., the researcher said.  Separately, the Nikkei reported Sharp is in talks to form
an LCD parts venture with  Taiwan ’s Hon Hai Precision Industry
Co., which may be set up as early as this year. Sharp’s Katayama
declined to comment on the report.  Sharp rose 0.1 percent to 738 yen as of the 3 p.m. close of
trading in Tokyo, after the forecast was announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  