-- 
Singapore Airlines’ Goh Sees ‘Huge Potential’ in Budget Market

-- B y   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-06-03T01:23:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/singapore-airlines-goh-sees-huge-potential-in-budget-market.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  Chief
Executive Officer Choon Phong Goh comments on the company’s
plans to form a budget long-haul unit and on its stake in Virgin
Atlantic Airways Ltd. He spoke yesterday at a Star Alliance
event in  Barcelona .  On the budget unit:  “We felt that this was a market with huge potential. If
you just look at the low-cost carrier traffic in  Asia , I think
in Asia-Pacific, we are talking about a market share of 15 to 16
percent but in  Europe  and America we are talking about a market
share of about 30 percent, so it is relatively speaking still at
a growth stage.  ‘‘On top of that, Asia is growing, and growing rapidly. And
then you have also this particular segment of the traffic, the
long-haul - low-cost, which is relatively untapped up to this
point. We felt that it’s a market with a very strong growth
potential and we’d like to be in it.  ‘‘This is going to be a very, very different proposition
from  Singapore  Airlines. It is going to be independently
operated and separately managed -- it’s going to be completely
independent of SIA although it’s 100 percent owned. You need
that, it’s a different mindset.  ‘‘Some of this traffic, budget-conscious travelers in Asia,
is going via other hubs, so this actually will allow them to
come to Singapore and take this airline.’’  On the Virgin stake:  ‘‘We’ve always said for Virgin that we are open to any
proposition if anyone wishes to purchase that stake. So if there
is an offer we will look at it and if it makes sense for us we
are willing to sell. That is the position right now for us.  ‘‘People who find the Virgin stake to be interesting will
make their own assessment and make the right proposal.  ‘‘If it is attractive enough we will consider it.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 