-- 
Sino-Forest Plunges as Short Seller Block Targets Stock Owned by Paulson

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-06-03T20:37:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/sino-forest-denies-short-seller-s-claims-on-timber-holdings-as-shares-drop.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , whose largest
shareholder is hedge fund Paulson & Co., plunged a second day
after a short seller said the forestry company overstated
timberland holdings and production, an allegation it denied.  It sank 64 percent to C$5.23 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. Sino-
Forest fell 21 percent yesterday after  Muddy Waters  LLC, an
investment firm run by Carson C. Block that’s betting against
Sino-Forest,  said  the company is a “fraud.” Sino-Forest has
lost more than C$3 billion in market value since June 1.  “The latest reports from Muddy Waters have been
unquestioned home runs,” said Eric Jackson, a founding and
managing member of Ironfire Capital LLC, a Naples, Florida-based
hedge fund. “When he first started a year ago I didn’t think
his background was particularly well suited for the job, but he
clearly knows  China  and he has built up a high-quality network
of other short sellers and consultants.”  Sino-Forest, based in Hong Kong and Mississauga, Ontario,
said in a statement today that it will establish a committee of
independent directors to examine the accusations.  “The allegations contained in this report are inaccurate
and unfounded,” Allen Chan, Sino-Forest’s chief executive
officer, said in a statement. “Muddy Waters’ shock-jock
approach is transparently self-interested and we look forward to
providing our investors and other stakeholders with additional
information to rebut these allegations.”  Sino-Forest’s 6.25 percent bond due in 2017 slid 35 percent
to 60 cents on the dollar. The yield doubled to 17 percent.  Land Holdings  Muddy Waters, based in  Hong Kong , said the amount of land
the company said it bought from Lincang City in China’s Yunnan
province doesn’t match city records.  “I find it hard to believe they would ever publish a
report like this in such a sensational way without knowing what
they’re talking about,” said Daniel L. Bain, who oversees about
C$400 million ($408 million) as chief investment officer at
Thornmark Asset Management Inc. in Toronto.  Regulators and investors have increased scrutiny of Chinese
companies trading in  North America . The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission began an investigation last year into the
use of reverse takeovers, in which a closely held firm becomes
public by purchasing a shell company that already trades. The
Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index of U.S.-listed stocks
has fallen 40 percent this year.  Rino, China MediaExpress  Block has made allegations of financial-statement
manipulation against  Rino International Corp. (RINO)  in November and
 China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME)  in February.  Nine days after Block’s report, Rino, a provider of water
treatment systems for steelmakers, said two years of financial
statements aren’t reliable. China MediaExpress’s auditor,
 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu , resigned five weeks after Block’s
accusations, saying it was “no longer able to rely on the
representations of management.” MediaExpress’s chief financial
officer resigned later the same month.  C.V. Starr, the  investment company  owned by former American
International Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Hank Greenberg,
was among China MediaExpress’s largest owners together with New
York-based hedge fund D.E. Shaw & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shareholders in
Rino included Julius Baer Group Ltd.,  Switzerland ’s fifth-
biggest money manager, and the Colorado Public Employees
Retirement Association.  Paulson  Paulson & Co.,  John Paulson ’s New York-based hedge fund
that made $15 billion in 2007 betting against subprime
mortgages, owned 34.7 million Sino-Forest shares as of April 29,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of China Forestry Holdings Co., partly owned by
Washington-based private equity firm  Carlyle Group , have been
halted since Jan. 31, when KPMG International identified what
the company called “possible irregularities.” On April 29, the
company said its former management team faked bank documents.  “What you have right now is the forestry business in China
is lucrative but it doesn’t seem like anyone has been able to
validate what they own, licenses, or the numbers,” said Jeff Papp, a senior analyst for the $250 million Oberweis China
Opportunities in Lisle,  Illinois .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  