-- 
Spain’s Cabinet Approves Steps to Counter Bank Deposit War

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-06-03T16:48:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/spain-s-cabinet-approves-steps-to-counter-banks-deposit-war-.html
Spain ’s  cabinet  approved new rules to
limit what regulators see as over-aggressive competition among
banks to attract customer deposits.  Banks that “excessively remunerate” savers must make
additional contributions to deposit guarantee funds, the prime minister’s office said today in a statement on its website.
Based on current Euribor rates, those limits would be 2.93
percent for three-month deposits and 3.21 percent for those
between three and 12 months, it said.  Banks will have to pay five times more in contributions to
the funds for deposits that are above the new thresholds, the
government said. The new rules, passed by decree at the weekly
cabinet meeting in Madrid, aim to “put an end to the damaging
effects of the growing ‘deposit war’ in the Spanish financial
system,” the statement said.  “It’s great news for the banks because it will penalize
those that were offering unreasonable deposit rates,” said
Antonio Ramirez, a banks analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Ltd.
in  London .  Lenders increased the yields they offer on deposits after
wholesale financing costs surged because of investor concerns
about government efforts to lower the euro region’s third-
largest budget deficit.  “It looks like you’re getting a higher return when you
take your money to the bank but it ends up creating a much more
expensive loan because the bank has to charge someone for what
it’s giving you,” Deputy Prime Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba
told reporters after today’s cabinet meeting.  Other rule changes will allow the Bank of Spain to set
limits on the pay of executives at lenders that have received
state bailout funds. The payment of between 40 percent and 60
percent of variable compensation awards to banking executives
will also be delayed for at least three years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  