-- 
Sudan’s Bashir Says State Will Cut Spending as South Secedes

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-06-03T11:15:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/sudan-s-bashir-says-state-will-cut-spending-as-south-secedes.html
Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir
said his government prepared a three-year program to cut
spending to cope with the secession of the oil-rich south next
month.  “We all know that secession will have economic
ramifications, and that we will lose our share from the south’s
oil,” al-Bashir said in a speech yesterday in Khartoum, the
capital, according to a transcript published by state-run  SUNA
news agency .  Southern Sudan , due to become independent on July 9, will
assume control of 75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of
490,000 barrels, the third-biggest in sub-Saharan  Africa , pumped
mainly by China National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. and India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  While most of Sudan’s crude is produced in the land-locked
south, its refineries and only oil-export terminal at  Port
Sudan , on the Red Sea, are in the north. The two regions now
share revenue from oil pumped in the south on a 50-50 basis,
under a 2005 peace agreement that ended a two-decade civil war.  Negotiations between northern and Southern Sudan in the
Ethiopian capital,  Addis Ababa , on issues including their future
relations and how Southern Sudan will pay the north for pipeline
fees after independence have reached no agreement yet.  The government in Khartoum is also taking measures to fight
“very widespread”  tax evasion  and diversify exports away from
oil to commodities such as gold, al-Bashir said.  Sudan’s oil exports rose to $3.1 billion in the first
quarter of this year from $2.6 billion the same period last
year, Finance Minister Ali Mahmoud Abdel Rasoul told parliament
May 23. Non-oil exports grew to $451.9 million from $338.2
million, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 