-- 
Sugar Futres Advance to Seven-Week High as Brazil Crop May Miss Estimates

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-06-03T18:41:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/sugar-climbs-in-london-as-brazil-s-crop-may-miss-estimates-cocoa-drops.html
Sugar rose to a seven-week high in
New York on speculation that supplies will be limited from
 Brazil , the world’s biggest producer. Coffee prices jumped.  ICAP do Brasil said that the nation’s sugar-cane crop may
fall short of an industry group’s estimate for a record harvest
in the season that began in April. Unica, the industry
association, said last week that output in Brazil’s Center
South, the world’s largest producing region, slumped 17 percent
in the first half of May from a year earlier.  “The estimates seem to be moving lower,” said  Michael McDougall , a senior vice president at Newedge USA in New York.
“Sugar has shown an ability to try for higher levels.”  Raw sugar for July delivery rose 0.43 cent, or 1.8 percent,
to settle at 23.95 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S.
in  New York . Earlier, the price touched 24.22 cents, the highest
since April 15. The sweetener has gained for four straight
weeks, the longest rally since November.  In March, Unica estimated the sugar-cane harvest in the
Center South would reach 568.5 million metric tons this season.
The total probably won’t top 550 million tons, Marcos Mine, head
of the sugar-ethanol desk at ICAP do Brasil, said from  Sao Paulo 
this week.  Arabica-coffee futures for July delivery surged 9.7 cents,
or 3.7 percent, to $2.7095 a pound in New York, the biggest gain
since April 5. The commodity has doubled in the past year.  In London, refined sugar and robusta coffee also advanced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  