-- 
U.K. Regulator Is Said to Be Near Decision on News Corp.’s Offer for BSkyB

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-06-03T14:08:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/u-k-regulator-is-said-to-near-decision-on-news-corp-s-bskyb-takeover-bid.html
U.K. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt 
may get a recommendation from regulator Ofcom on News Corp.’s
proposed undertakings to buy the rest of pay-TV broadcaster
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc within the next two weeks,
two people familiar with the matter said.  The advice will allow Hunt to decide whether he will stand
by a preliminary ruling to clear the takeover or announce an
additional weeklong consultation, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the deliberations are private. U.K.
lawmakers will come back from vacation June 7.  A final approval would clear the way for News Corp. to
start talks over revising its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.7 billion)
bid for the remaining 61 percent of BSkyB, whose independent
directors rejected the 700 pence per share bid as too low a year
ago. New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA)  in January offered to spin off
BSkyB’s 24-hour Sky News channel to address antitrust concerns.  Spokespeople for News Corp., Ofcom and the Department of
Culture, Media and Sports declined to comment.  The approval process was slowed down because of the high
level of detail Ofcom has to examine and the regulator is
unlikely to make a recommendation while U.K. lawmakers are on
vacation from May 25 to June 6., a person familiar with the
matter said last month.  Hunt said May 19 that the review of News Corp.’s proposed
undertakings has taken longer than expected and that he’ll “go
through the process completely and thoroughly.”  News Corp. has reached an agreement in principle with U.K.
regulators on a plan to remove the final hurdles to its bid for
full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the
Financial Times reported, citing people close to the
negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  