-- 
U.S. Asks Judge to Restore Corporate Campaign Money Charge

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-03T17:09:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/u-s-asks-federal-judge-to-reinstate-corporate-campaign-donation-charges.html
U.S. prosecutors said a federal judge
didn’t have enough information when he ruled that a century-old
ban on direct corporate donations to federal candidates was
unconstitutional and threw out part of an indictment against two
fundraisers for  Hillary Clinton ’s campaigns.  Prosecutors in federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia , today
asked U.S. District Judge James Cacheris to reconsider his May
26 decision. The government lawyers said they failed to cite a
campaign finance ruling that is critical to the case.  “We’ve raised the argument,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark Lytle told the judge today in court. “We just didn’t cite one
precedent.”  Cacheris ruled that the Supreme Court’s  Citizens United 
decision in 2010, which gave corporations the same rights as
individuals to spend money independently to support candidates,
also meant they can make direct campaign donations that comply
with general legal limits. Individuals this year can give $2,500
to a candidate per election.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Pilger asked Cacheris to
consider the 2003  Supreme Court  ruling in FEC v. Beaumont. The
court upheld a ban on corporations contributing directly to
candidates, Pilger said. The Citizens United case involved
corporate expenditures, not contributions, he said.  “Citizens United did not overrule Beaumont,” Pilger said.
“Citizens United is not about contributions. This is a
contributions case.”  Presidential Campaign  The 52-page decision by Cacheris came in a case against
fundraisers for Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign who were
indicted for improperly reimbursing $186,600 to donors. Cacheris
threw out the charge that they illegally funneled corporate
money to the campaign.  The indictment, which covers Clinton’s 2006 Senate run in
addition, also charged William P. Danielczyk Jr., chairman of
McLean, Virginia-based Galen Capital Group LLC, and Eugene R.
Biagi, Galen’s secretary and treasurer, with conspiracy,
obstruction of justice and causing false statements. A trial is
set to begin July 6, according to court papers.  Cacheris said he will issue a decision early next week on
whether to reinstate the charge.  Lawyers for the two defendants argued in court that the
Citizens United ruling “swept away” the earlier Beaumont
decision. They also said that by not raising the Beaumont case
earlier, prosecutors waived their opportunity to do it now.  “We’re back here arguing a new set of cases,”
Danielczyk’s lawyer, Jeffrey Lamken of MoloLamken in  Washington ,
told Cacheris.  Bans on direct corporate donations to candidates go back to
the Tillman Act of 1905. The 2002 campaign finance law
prohibited contributions known as “soft money” from corporate
and union treasuries to the political parties.  The case is U.S. v. Danielczyk, 1:11-cr-00085, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 