-- 
Dow Average Has Longest Weekly Slump Since 2004 on Jobs Report

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-03T20:59:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-before-jobs-data-news-corp-might-move.html
U.S. stocks extended a fifth straight
weekly drop, the longest slump for the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  since 2004, as slower-than-estimated growth in jobs
fueled concern that earnings forecasts are too optimistic.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and DuPont Co. each retreated 1.7 percent,
pacing losses among companies most-tied to economic growth. The
Dow Jones Transportation Average, which is considered a proxy
for the economy, declined 1.7 percent.  Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW) ,
the largest online-recruiting company, tumbled 5.7 percent after
payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months and the U.S.
jobless rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.1 percent in May.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 1 percent to
1,300.16 at 4 p.m. in New York, the lowest since March 23. The
benchmark gauge for American equities had its longest weekly
slump since July 2008, falling 4.7 percent since April 29. The
Dow fell 97.29 points, or 0.8 percent, to 12,151.26 today.  “It’s a highly worrisome jobs report that should jolt
policy makers into realizing the U.S. faces an employment
crisis,” said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at
Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund. “The details indicate that the stimulus-
driven cyclical recovery has done little to overcome what is an
increasingly structural unemployment problem. The economy is in
a soft patch that places pressures on equity prices.”  Weak Economic Data  The S&P 500 slumped 3.4 percent over the last three days
also as a report showed weaker-than-forecast employment growth
in ADP Employer Services’ and as manufacturing expanded at the
slowest pace in more than a year. Still, the index is up 3.4
percent this year amid government stimulus measures and higher-
than-estimated corporate earnings.  Employers added a less-than-projected 54,000 jobs last
month, after a revised 232,000 gain in April that was smaller
than initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed today
in  Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
called for payrolls to rise 165,000. The jobless rate climbed to
the highest level this year from 9 percent a month earlier.  “The jobs report is the last nail in the coffin,” said
 Russ Koesterich , the San Francisco-based global chief investment
strategist for the IShares unit of BlackRock Inc., which
oversees $3.65 trillion as the world’s largest asset manager.
“It confirms that the economy is dramatically slowing. It tells
me that the Fed will be in no rush to tighten monetary policy.
This to me is a rational correction in stocks. You probably need
to see some moderation in earnings estimates.”  Failed to Derail  Michael Shaoul , whose Marketfield Fund Ltd. beat 81 percent
of competitors last year with investments in transportation and
retail companies, said private-sector hiring has risen by an
average 145,000 a month over the last year, faster than
economists had predicted. He noted that smaller gains in nonfarm
payrolls reported in February and July 2004 failed to derail the
last  bull market , which peaked in October 2007.  “What the data will do, however, is accelerate the process
of economic revision, with estimates of U.S. growth being forced
significantly lower across the board,” Shaoul wrote in a note
to clients. “As damaging as the process may be for asset
values, it has surprisingly little to do with the actual ability
of corporations to generate revenue.”  UBS AG strategists led by Chief Economist Larry Hatheway
reduced their stance on global equities to “underweight,”
saying the worldwide economy “is clearly enduring a soft
patch.”  Earnings Estimates  Data on the economy is trailing forecasts by the widest
margin since the bull market began in March 2009, according to
the Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the U.S. At the same
time, stock analysts have been boosting forecasts for  S&P 500 
profit growth. Companies in the index are forecast to earn
$105.31 a share over the next 12 months, compared with $96.92 at
the beginning of January, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Based on those estimates, the S&P 500 is trading at a
price-earnings ratio of 12.3, compared with an average forward
multiple of 14.7 since 2006, the data show. Profit forecasts
have beaten analyst estimates for nine straight quarters. The
index is priced at 1.3 times reported sales, down from a 32-
month high of 1.4 in February, and 2.2 times book value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The only saving grace for the stock market in that
environment is that P/E multiples are not very challenging
relative to history,” said  Jim McDonald , chief investment
strategist at Northern Trust Corp. in  Chicago , which manages
$662 billion. Stocks are not expensive. That’s something that
helps mitigate the downside.’’  Tied to Economy  Companies most-tied to economic growth slumped. The Morgan
Stanley Cyclical Index fell 1.6 percent as 28 of its 30 stocks
retreated. Alcoa dropped 1.7 percent to $15.92. DuPont declined
1.7 percent to $50.29.  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  slumped 1.5 percent to
$90.15.  Monster Worldwide, the largest online-recruiting company,
tumbled 5.7 percent to $13.58, the lowest level since October.
The stock also had the third-biggest decline in the S&P 500.  Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (NWL)  tumbled 12 percent to $14.97. The
maker of Rubbermaid containers cut its profit forecast amid
slower  consumer spending . More than two-third of Newell’s sales
come from the U.S., where persistent joblessness and surging
prices for food and gas have forced shoppers to watch their
wallets.  The benchmark index for U.S. stock options and the S&P 500
fell, breaking their pattern of moving in opposite directions,
as lower-than-estimated job growth failed to spur traders to pay
more for insurance against equity losses. The VIX, as the
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index is known, fell
0.8 percent to 17.95. The index measures the cost of using
options as protection against declines in the S&P 500.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  