-- 
U.S. May ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-06-03T14:14:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/u-s-may-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. non-
manufacturing conditions from the  Institute for Supply
Management .  NMI at 54.6%;
May Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business;
Business Activity Index at 53.6%;
New Orders Index at 56.8%;
Employment Index at 54%  DO NOT CONFUSE THIS NATIONAL REPORT with the various regional
purchasing reports released across the country. The national
report’s information reflects the entire United States, while
the regional reports contain primarily regional data from their
local vicinities. Also, the information in the regional reports
is not used in calculating the results of the national report.
The information compiled in this report is for the month of May
2011.  Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
May for the 18th consecutive month, say the nation’s purchasing
and supply executives in the latest Non-Manufacturing ISM Report
On Business.  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M., CFPM,
chair of the Institute for Supply Management Non-Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The NMI registered 54.6 percent in
May, 1.8 percentage points higher than the 52.8 percent
registered in April, and indicating continued growth at a faster
rate in the non-manufacturing sector. The Non-Manufacturing
Business Activity Index decreased 0.1 percentage point to 53.6
percent, reflecting growth for the 22nd consecutive month, but
at a slightly slower rate than in April. The New Orders Index
increased by 4.1 percentage points to 56.8 percent. The
Employment Index increased 2.1 percentage points to 54 percent,
indicating growth in employment for the ninth consecutive month
and at a faster rate. The Prices Index decreased 0.5 percentage
point to 69.6 percent, indicating that prices increased at a
slightly slower rate in May when compared to April. According to
the NMI, 16 non-manufacturing industries reported growth in May.
Respondents’ comments are mostly positive about overall business
conditions. There is a sentiment that there is a degree of
stability in the economy; however, a continued concern exists
over fuel costs and various volatile commodities.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE (Based on the NMI)  The 16 industries reporting growth in May based on the NMI
composite index -- listed in order -- are: Mining; Utilities;
Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Other Services; Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Transportation &
Warehousing; Construction; Accommodation & Food Services; Health
Care & Social Assistance; Information; Public Administration;
Finance & Insurance; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; and Wholesale Trade. The two industries reporting
contraction in May are: Educational Services and Retail Trade.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING  “Business is O.K. Fuel prices and truck availability are
starting to be a negative force on our supply chain.”
(Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting) “Business conditions
are stabilized.” (Health Care & Social Assistance) “First and
second quarters of 2011 have been up 25 percent over 2010;
however, we expect a slight slowdown over the summer months.”
(Professional, Scientific & Technical Services) “Uncertainty
within commodity markets, especially fuel- and oil-based
products, is putting pressure once again and forcing us to
retrench as we look for stability. We expect the remainder of
2011 and at least the first two quarters of 2012 to be
tumultuous.” (Retail Trade) “Volatile commodity prices adding
stress to meat and dairy producers; increasing fuel prices are a
problem for many.”  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price  Adhesives; Air Freight (2); Aircraft Parts; Airfares (6);
Aluminum; Beef (2); Can Liners (2); Chemicals; Chemical
Products; Coffee; Conveyor Products; Copper (4); Copper Products
(6); Copper Wire; Cotton Products (9); #1 Diesel Fuel (8); #2
Diesel Fuel (11); Food Products; Fuel (17); Fuel Products; Fuel
Surcharges (5); Gasoline (8); HDPE; LDPE; Latex Gloves (5);
Ocean Freight; Oil; Oil Products (2); Packaging Materials (3);
Paper (7); Paper Products; Petroleum Products (5); Petroleum
Resin Products; Plastics (2); Plastic Products (3); Polyethylene
Bags (6); Polyethylene Resins; Rubber Based Products; Steel (6);
Steel Pipe and Fittings (2); Steel Products (6); Textiles (2);
Transportation Costs (2); and Transportation Services.  Commodities Down in Price  No commodities are reported down in price.  Commodities in Short Supply  Heavy Truck Transmissions; and Medications.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  MAY 2011 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  NMI  In May, the NMI registered 54.6 percent, indicating
continued growth in the non-manufacturing sector for the 18th
consecutive month. A reading above 50 percent indicates the non-
manufacturing sector economy is generally expanding; below 50
percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector is generally
contracting.  Business Activity  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index in May
registered 53.6 percent, a decrease of 0.1 percentage point when
compared to the 53.7 percent registered in April. Fourteen
industries reported increased business activity, and three
industries reported decreased activity for the month of May.
Comments from respondents include: “Customer demand for certain
products has grown considerably” and “Increased orders due to
more confidence in the economy.”  The industries reporting growth of business activity in May
-- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Utilities; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Construction;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Other Services;
Transportation & Warehousing; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Finance & Insurance; Public Administration; Mining; Health Care
& Social Assistance; Accommodation & Food Services; and
Information. The three industries reporting decreased business
activity in May are: Retail Trade; Educational Services; and
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services.  New Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in May for
the 22nd consecutive month. The index registered 56.8 percent,
an increase of 4.1 percentage points from the 52.7 percent
reported in April. Comments from respondents include: “Slightly
improved business conditions and outlook” and “Increased
proposal activity.”  The 15 industries reporting growth of new orders in May --
listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Utilities; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Mining;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Other Services;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Transportation &
Warehousing; Construction; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Finance & Insurance; Health Care & Social Assistance;
Accommodation & Food Services; Public Administration; and
Information. The two industries reporting contraction of new
orders in May are: Retail Trade and Educational Services.  Employment  Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
May, as ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Employment Index registered 54
percent. This reflects an increase of 2.1 percentage points when
compared to the 51.9 percent registered in April. Thirteen
industries reported increased employment, three industries
reported decreased employment, and two industries reported
unchanged employment compared to April. Comments from
respondents include: “Preparing for growth” and “Business
conditions indicate positive trends. We have begun converting
contractors to permanent positions, as well as increasing
permanent head count.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in May -
- listed in order -- are: Mining; Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Retail Trade; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Information; Transportation & Warehousing; Utilities;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Wholesale Trade;
Accommodation & Food Services; Finance & Insurance; Public
Administration; and Health Care & Social Assistance. The
industries reporting a reduction in employment in May are:
Educational Services; Construction; and Professional, Scientific
& Technical Services.  Supplier Deliveries  The Supplier Deliveries Index registered 54 percent in May,
1 percentage point higher than the 53 percent registered in
April, indicating that supplier deliveries continued to slow in
May. A reading above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries.  The nine industries reporting slower deliveries in May --
listed in order -- are: Mining; Other Services; Utilities;
Construction; Accommodation & Food Services; Wholesale Trade;
Health Care & Social Assistance; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; and Transportation & Warehousing. The four
industries reporting faster supplier deliveries in May are:
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Retail Trade;
Information; and Finance & Insurance. Five industries reported
no change in supplier deliveries for the month of May compared
to April.  Inventories  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index registered 55
percent in May, 0.5 percentage point lower than the 55.5 percent
reading that was reported in April, March and February. Of the
total respondents in May, 26 percent indicated they do not have
inventories or do not measure them. Comments from respondents
include: “Improvement in inventory management practices” and
“Working down inventory level.”  The eight industries reporting an increase in inventories
in May -- listed in order -- are: Real Estate, Rental & Leasing;
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Utilities; Wholesale
Trade; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Transportation &
Warehousing; Public Administration; and Construction. The four
industries reporting decreases in inventories in May are:
Accommodation & Food Services; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Finance & Insurance; and Information. Five
industries reported no change in inventories for the month of
May compared to April.  Prices  Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for
purchased materials and services increased in May. ISM’s Non-
Manufacturing Prices Index for May registered 69.6 percent, 0.5
percentage point lower than the 70.1 percent reported in April.
In May, the percentage of respondents reporting higher prices is
53 percent, the percentage indicating no change in prices paid
is 42 percent, and 5 percent of the respondents reported lower
prices.  Seventeen non-manufacturing industries reported an increase
in prices paid, in the following order: Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing & Hunting; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Mining; Utilities; Accommodation &
Food Services; Finance & Insurance; Wholesale Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Public Administration;
Information; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Retail Trade; Health Care & Social Assistance; Educational
Services; Construction; and Management of Companies & Support
Services. The only industry reporting no change in prices paid
is Other Services.  Backlog of Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders Index grew in May
for the fifth consecutive month, but at a slightly slower rate.
The index registered 55 percent, 0.5 percentage point lower than
the 55.5 percent reported in April. Of the total respondents in
May, 38 percent indicated they do not measure backlog of orders.  The eight industries reporting an increase in order
backlogs in May -- listed in order -- are: Utilities; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Management of Companies & Support
Services; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Wholesale Trade; Transportation & Warehousing; Construction; and
Finance & Insurance. The two industries reporting lower backlog
of orders in May are: Retail Trade and Information. Eight
industries reported no change in order backlogs for the month of
May compared to April.  New Export Orders  Orders and requests for services and other non-
manufacturing activities to be provided outside of the  United
States  by domestically based personnel grew at a faster rate in
May. The New Export Orders Index for May registered 57 percent,
which is 3.5 percentage points higher than the 53.5 percent
registered in April and is the ninth consecutive month of growth
in the index. Of the total respondents in May, 67 percent
indicated they either do not perform, or do not separately
measure, orders for work outside of the United States.  The six industries reporting an increase in new export
orders in May -- listed in order -- are: Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Construction; Mining; Accommodation & Food Services;
Public Administration; and Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services. The three industries reporting a decrease in export
orders in May are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Retail Trade; and Wholesale Trade. Six industries reported no
change in new export orders for the month of May compared to
April.  Imports  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index registered 50.5
percent in May, which is 6.5 percentage points lower than the 57
percent reported in April. Sixty percent of respondents reported
that they do not use, or do not track, the use of imported
materials.  The four industries reporting an increase in the use of
imports in May are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Other
Services; Mining; and Accommodation & Food Services. The three
industries reporting a decrease in imports for the month of May
are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Wholesale Trade;
and Retail Trade. Nine industries reported no change in imports
for the month of May compared to April.  Inventory Sentiment  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in May
registered 55 percent, which is 2.5 percentage points lower than
the 57.5 percent reported in April. This indicates that
respondents believe their inventories are still too high at this
time. In May, 23 percent of respondents said their inventories
were too high, 13 percent said their inventories were too low,
and 64 percent said their inventories were about right.  The five industries reporting a feeling that their
inventories are too high in May are: Other Services;
Information; Finance & Insurance; Retail Trade; and Wholesale
Trade. The three industries reporting that inventories are too
low in May are: Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; and Construction.  About this Report  The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of non-
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on
data compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). The Non-Manufacturing Business
Survey Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS
code categories: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Mining; Utilities; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Educational Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services;
Public Administration; and Other Services (services such as
Equipment & Machinery Repairing; Promoting or Administering
Religious Activities; Grantmaking; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-
Cleaning & Laundry Services, Personal Care Services, Death Care
Services, Pet Care Services, Photofinishing Services, Temporary
Parking Services, and Dating Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New
Export Orders, Inventory Change, Inventory Sentiment, Imports,
Prices, Employment and Supplier Deliveries), this report shows
the percentage reporting each response, and the diffusion index.
Responses represent raw data and are never changed. Data is
seasonally adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices
and Employment. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by
the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The
remaining indexes have not indicated significant seasonality.  The NMI (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index
based on the diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with
equal weights: Business Activity (seasonally adjusted), New
Orders (seasonally adjusted), Employment (seasonally adjusted)
and Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion indexes have the properties
of leading indicators and are convenient summary measures
showing the prevailing direction of change and the scope of
change. An index reading above 50 percent indicates that the
non-manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining.
Supplier Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50
percent indicates faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the Institute for Supply Management, the largest
supply management research and education organization in the
United States. The Institute for Supply Management, established
in 1915, is the largest supply management organization in the
world as well as one of the most respected. ISM’s mission is to
lead the supply management profession through its standards of
excellence, research, promotional activities and education.  The full text version of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report
On Business is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the
third business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring
the June 2011 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on
Wednesday, July 6, 2011.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  