-- 
Uamco Plans IPO by 2013 as Korean Buyer of Bad Loans Sees Market Expanding

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-06-03T02:35:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/uamco-plans-ipo-by-2013-as-korean-buyer-of-bad-loans-sees-market-expanding.html
Uamco Ltd. ,  South Korea ’s biggest
buyer of bad debts from banks, plans an initial public offering
by September 2013 as stricter capital rules and accounting
standards encourage lenders to sell more soured loans.  “Banks will become more willing to offload bad debt from
their books to meet Basel rule changes, helping stabilize the
bad-loan supply without fluctuations in the economic cycle,”
Chief Executive Officer Lee Seong Kyu said in a May 31
interview.  Uamco, which was set up in 2009 by six Korean lenders to
house assets that deteriorated following the global financial
crisis, is profiting by selling debt collateral such as land and
factories. The company now plans to buy bank loans made to
developers for construction projects stalled by a real-estate
slump.  “So far, there haven’t been buyers who can absorb the bad
loans from real-estate development projects,” Lee, 51, said in
 Seoul . “With our experience in the past year and a half, we’re
confident we can profit from the new frontier that’s
approaching.”  A public listing in 2013 would occur about a year before
the company is scheduled to be liquidated according to an
agreement that the six shareholder banks made when it was formed
in October 2009, the CEO said.  “Through an IPO, our shareholders can recoup their
investment earlier than their schedule,” he said. “As a listed
company with higher credit in the market, we can also lower our
funding costs.”  Loan-Buying Fund  Seoul-based Uamco and seven lenders will form a private-
equity fund this month to purchase as much as 2.5 trillion won
($2.3 billion) worth of soured construction-project loans
extended by banks. Korean banks’ non-performing loans jumped 37
percent from a year earlier at the end of March, fueled by
builder defaults.  Lee said the fund aims to recoup its investment in five to
seven years by buying the loans at market price -- usually
around half their face value -- then injecting cash to finish
the stalled projects and selling the properties at a profit.  “I hope this new fund acts as a trigger for a virtuous
cycle -- completing projects, reviving real-estate market
sentiment, and ultimately pushing up  home prices ,” he said.  State-run Korea Asset Management Corp., known as Kamco,
will separately this month begin buying as much as 3.5 trillion
won of soured construction loans extended by savings banks, the
Financial Services Commission said on June 1.  Urged to Support  Uamco expects to buy 8 trillion won worth of non-performing
loans this year, after purchasing a similar amount in 2010 when
it took about 45 percent of market share, according to Lee.
While purchases may shrink to about 4 trillion won from 2012 as
the economy recovers, that figure is still almost double the
amount banks used to sell in times of prosperity, he said.  South Korean regulators urged banks to support construction
companies in April after at least five of the nation’s 100
biggest builders sought court protection from creditors this
year. At the same time, they asked banks to cut their bad-debt
ratios to below 1.5 percent this year and maintain reserves
against non-performing loans.  Combined non-performing loans at South Korea’s 18 lenders
accounted for 1.98 percent of their outstanding credit at the
end of March, according to the  Financial Supervisory Service .
Bad debts extended to builders and developers made up 18.35
percent of those types of loans.  ‘True Sale’  Lee worked as the chief strategy officer at  Hana Financial
Group Inc. (086790)  before joining Uamco. He earlier worked as vice
president at Kookmin Bank, a Uamco shareholder, and helped
restructure assets at Daewoo Group after it collapsed in the
wake of the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis.  Along with global regulatory changes requiring higher
capital, stricter accounting requirements will prompt banks to
seek “true sale” of bad assets, rather than transfer them to
their own paper-company units, the CEO said.  From this year, South Korean companies and banks are
required to report results on a consolidated basis, meaning
accounts of subsidiaries are included.  Uamco forecasts meeting a 12 percent return-on-equity goal
this year, expecting 60 billion won in net income, the CEO said.
That compares with 8.1 billion won profit in 2010, its first
full year of operations.  The company’s “counter-cyclical” business character will
complement investors’ portfolios, Lee said. “Companies like us
can do good for the overall economy by enabling commercial banks
to focus on core work while we clear up non-performing loans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 