-- 
Humala Roils Peru Market as Anti-Fujimori Campaign Nears End

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-06-03T15:12:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/humala-roils-peru-market-as-anti-fujimori-campaign-nears-end-1-.html
The race to succeed President  Alan Garcia  of Peru, a country where one-third of the populace lives
in poverty, may be decided in up-and-coming neighborhoods such
as Independencia where children of peasants who fled the
countryside now work and shop at the nation’s biggest mall.  Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori, who is running even with
former army officer Ollanta Humala in polls before the June 5
election, is banking on the votes of those lifted into the
middle class by a decade of region-leading economic growth.  Peru´s economic expansion has spurred employment and
doubled per capita income to $5,224. Still, the prospect of a
win by Humala, a onetime ally of Venezuela’s  Hugo Chavez , has
generated wide swings in  Peru ’s stock market over the past
month. Fujimori has pledged to maintain policies that have
nurtured the boom and helped people like Melina Paima stock
homes with flat-screen TVs and washing machines.  “Keiko is better prepared to govern than Humala,” said
the 32-year-old Paima, who lives in Independencia in the capital
city of Lima and sells beauty products in the Plaza Norte mall,
which opened there in 2009. “She’s a mother like me and she has
an MBA. All Humala has is his military training, and there’s a
fear that with him we won’t do so well economically.”  Guarding Gains  Middle-class voters are torn between guarding their gains
and concern that corruption may flourish under Fujimori, said
Andrea Stiglich, a Latin America specialist at the London-based
Economist Intelligence Unit. The candidate’s father,  Alberto Fujimori , is serving a 25-year jail sentence for directing a
paramilitary death squad as president from 1990-2000.  “The higher-income groups will vote for Fujimori because
of her economic policies,” said Stiglich. “The real fight for
votes is in Lima’s middle class. They are more worried about
corruption and human rights abuses, but in the end they’ll vote
to protect their wallets.”  Fujimori, a U.S.-educated mother of two, leads Humala by
2.2 percentage points, within the margin of error, after
trailing him by eight points in the first round of the election
April 10, according to a poll by Lima-based Ipsos Apoyo issued
yesterday. Two other polling firms said yesterday the candidates
are tied.  Narrow Loss  Investors are concerned that Humala, who narrowly lost the
presidency to Garcia in 2006, will follow in Chavez’s path by
nationalizing companies and boosting the role of the state in
 Latin America ’s fastest-growing economy over the last five
years, said Gustavo Rangel, an economist at ING Financial
Markets in  New York . “His victory would add considerable
downside to Peru’s long-term fundamentals,” Rangel said in a
May 23 report.  As Humala, 48, has seen a six-point lead in the polls
evaporate, he has shelved his 198-page campaign platform to back
away from an earlier pledge to rewrite the constitution, and
said he won’t use private pension fund savings to finance a
state retirement plan. Instead of looking to Chavez, he now says
he would emulate the pro-market policies of former Brazilian
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , and he hired two of Lula’s
aides as campaign advisers.  Investors in Peru have ridden a roller coaster since the
first round. The  Lima  General Index of stocks fell 6 percent,
the most in seven weeks, on June 1 on speculation that
Fujimori’s lead had narrowed. The gauge jumped 7.2 percent
yesterday, the most in more than two years, after Ipsos Apoyo’s
poll showed her lead little changed from a May 29 survey.  Extra Yield  In the two weeks after Humala led the field in the first
round, sol-denominated bond yields rose to a two-year high and
the currency fell to a 10-month low. Then, with Fujimori
climbing in the polls, the currency gained 2.6 percent and the
extra yield investors demand to own Peruvian government debt
over Treasuries dropped 42 basis sis points, or 0.42 percentage
point, to 189 at 10:55 a.m. New York time, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI+ indexes.  “We have to continue with an open economic model in order
to let us grow,” Fujimori, 36, said in a May 19 interview after
a day of campaigning in Chiclayo, a thriving agricultural hub
and Peru’s fourth-biggest city. “But there must be changes in
the government to make it more efficient and transform the
budget into services for the people.”  Average economic growth of 5.7 percent in the last decade
has turned former shantytowns into centers of industry and
commerce. In Independencia, the Plaza Mall separates a hillside
district where migrants from the Andean highlands live in shacks
from an area of tidy streets where the first apartment buildings
are going up, painted pristine white.  Trickle Down  Humala is stronger among the poor and in rural areas where
voters are less concerned with him being a “radical” and the
benefits of economic growth have been slower to trickle down,
said Erasto Almeida, a political analyst at Eurasia Group, a New
York-based research company.  At the same time, memories of Fujimori’s father delivering
clean water and building schools in remote corners of the
country are drawing voters to his daughter, Almeida said.  Alberto Fujimori is credited by supporters with laying the
foundations of Peru’s economic boom by slashing inflation from
7,650 percent to 3.5 percent and luring foreign investment. His
government collapsed after his intelligence chief, Vladimiro Montesinos, was caught on videotape in 2000 bribing lawmakers.  More Votes  Keiko Fujimori, who met her U.S.-born husband, Mark
Villanella, while obtaining an MBA at  Columbia University  in  New
York City , was elected to Congress in 2006 with more votes than
any other candidate. She has apologized to Peruvians for crimes
committed during her father’s government, while saying he is
innocent of the charges on which he was convicted. Most people
don’t believe her pledge that she won’t free him from jail if
elected, a May 23 Ipsos Apoyo poll showed.  As the election nears, the two candidates have increasingly
traded personal attacks. Humala has charged that Alberto
Fujimori is running his daughter’s campaign from his jail cell,
while her supporters have accused Chavez of funding Humala’s
2006 presidential bid. Humala’s running mate, Omar Chehade, on
May 26 accused Garcia of trying to rig the runoff in favor of
Fujimori. Garcia rejected the claim.  Despite Humala’s best efforts, he hasn’t been able to
dispel the specter of  Venezuela ’s self-proclaimed socialist
revolutionary.  “Humala hasn’t got a good platform, he wants to do the
same as Chavez,” said Oswaldo Tapia, a construction worker
loading steel rods onto a truck in Chiclayo. “With Keiko,
things will be different from the way they were under her
father. And we should be scared of Humala.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  