-- 
UN Board Chairman Cites Progress on Carbon Credits Eligibility

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-06-03T14:52:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/un-board-chairman-cites-progress-on-carbon-credits-eligibility.html
A United Nations board that oversees
the world’s biggest greenhouse-gas-offset market made progress
this week on clarifying eligibility rules for projects applying
for carbon credits, said chairman Martin Hession.  The board agreed to “default numbers” that will help
determine how many credits renewable and energy-efficiency
projects in least-developed nations can win in the Clean
Development Mechanism program, Hession said today in an
interview at Carbon Expo in Barcelona. This will broaden the
number of countries applying for credits, he said.  The default numbers help projects when it’s unclear whether
the proposal would have gone ahead even without the revenue from
the credits, he said. Renewable-energy projects can win credits
if they demonstrate they need assistance to be viable, according
to the so-called additionality rule of the CDM.  The board also revised a list of similar numbers that help
assess additionality in three Chinese provinces, Hession said.
 China  has won more credits than any other nation.  The board uses a list of highest tariffs in a given region
or province when determining whether projects should be approved
for credits.  The previous high-tariff list for China didn’t work because
it included prices from years ago designed to encourage
renewable projects, Susanne Haefeli-Hestvik, technical director
at Tricorona, a Stockholm-based emission-reduction developer
owned by  Barclays Plc (BARC)  of London, said in February.  The lists didn’t distinguish between richer and poorer
regions in the same province, she said. Hydro projects in poorer
regions may be missing out on support from emission credits
because there are higher tariffs in more developed parts of the
same province, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  