-- 
UN Security Council Has ‘Grave Concern’ on Sudan Region of Abyei

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-06-03T23:40:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/un-security-council-has-grave-concern-on-sudan-region-of-abyei.html
The  United Nations Security Council 
expressed grave concern for the “rapidly deteriorating
situation” in the contested region of Abyei in Sudan.  The  statement , which the council adopted today, comes
almost two weeks after the UN’s most powerful decision-making
body’s call on May 22 for an immediate withdrawal of Sudan’s
armed forces from the main town of Abyei. To be adopted, the
statement, which is a step down from a resolution, required
consensus among the council’s 15 members.  Eschewing the term “occupation,” the council condemned
the “military control” of the area around Abyei town and
called for an “immediate halt to all looting, burning and
illegal resettlement.”  Since its May 21 occupation of the main town of Abyei, the
Sudanese army has become entrenched in the region and is settled
at Bahr al-Arab, or, as it is known in the south, the Kiir River.
More than 45,000 people have fled the region, according to the
UN.  The  Security Council  is “united in deep concern about the
crisis in Sudan,”  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the UN,
said May 31 in a message on Twitter. “Khartoum must withdraw
from Abyei now or face increased pressure.”  The action sparked concern that a two-decade civil war,
which ended with a U.S.-brokered peace accord in 2005, may flare
up again in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s third-biggest oil producer.  Abyei is contested by the region’s Ngok Dinka people, who
are settled in the area and consider themselves southerners, and
Misseriya nomads who herd their cattle south in the dry season
and are supported by the Khartoum government. The region
produces less than 2,500 barrels of oil a day, according to
 Sudan ’s Oil Ministry.  Fighting in the area three years ago between the armies of
northern and southern Sudan killed 89 people and forced more
than 90,000 people to flee their homes, according to the UN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Khartoum at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  