-- 
Muni Tax, Egypt’s Bourse, Offshore Accounts: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-03T12:15:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/muni-bond-tax-egypt-bourse-goldman-probe-offshore-accounts-compliance.html
Renewed proposals to eliminate the
tax-exempt status of municipal bonds as a way to reduce the $1.5
trillion federal deficit are unlikely to succeed, Bank of  New
York  Mellon Corp. said in a report.  Abolishing the asset class would drive up borrowing costs
and further strain the budgets of muni issuers, leading to cuts
in services and capital projects, according to the  report 
yesterday by Standish Mellon Asset Management Co., the fixed-
income arm of the New York-based investment bank.  A proposed budget submitted by Representative Paul Ryan,
the House Budget Committee chairman, and a report from the
Simpson-Bowles debt commission embraced by President Barack
Obama in December both sought to eradicate the tax-exempt
treatment of municipal bonds, the report said.  While the effort to address the federal deficit will bring
tax loopholes under scrutiny, “it is unlikely that municipal
entities will be penalized,” Steven Harvey, a senior portfolio
manager, and Nathan Harris, a research analyst, wrote in the
report.  Compliance Policy  Egypt Bourse Says New Tax Won’t Affect Stock-Trading Profits  The Egyptian government’s plan to levy a capital-gains tax
only applies to company dividend distributions and not to
profits from trading in stocks, the  Egyptian Exchange  said
yesterday.  The bourse is studying the plan and will discuss it with
the business community and the markets regulator before advising
the government, the exchange said in an e-mailed statement.  The 10 percent tax “is still a proposed law that will be
discussed” with local business councils “to figure out how to
best implement it so as not to affect foreign investment in
Egypt,” bourse Chairman Mohamed Abdel Salam said in the
statement.  The North African country plans to levy the tax starting in
the next fiscal year on dividend payments, mergers and
acquisitions and asset revaluations, Finance Minister Samir
Radwan said. Egypt is trying to rein in a widening budget
deficit as it raises subsidy spending and public salaries to
meet public demand for improved living standards following the
overthrow of former President Hosni Mubarak in February.  Global Capital Surcharge May Affect 26 Firms, Memo Says  As many as 26 financial firms could be forced to hold extra
capital to avoid collapses that would threaten global financial
stability, according to a participant at a meeting of the
Financial Stability Board last week.  “We understand that it is likely that the number will be
in the 15-26 range,” Tim Ryan, chief executive officer of the
 Global Financial Markets Association , a finance-industry group,
said in a memo sent to board members following the meeting in
Frankfurt. “Though a capital buffer is likely, the structure,
amount and implementation timeline is still undecided,” Ryan
said in the memo, obtained by Bloomberg News.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is discussing
forcing so-called global systemically important financial
institutions to hold additional capital buffers equivalent to as
much as 3 percent of risk-weighted assets, people familiar with
the negotiations said in March. New York-based GFMA, whose board
includes executives from  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , says the surcharge will suppress returns on equity that
will already be under pressure from new capital requirements
that will apply to all banks, not just the largest.  For more, click here and see Dimon remarks in Interview
section, below.  Compliance Action  Goldman Sachs Said to Get Subpoena From New York Prosecutor  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, received a subpoena from the Manhattan District
Attorney’s office seeking information on the firm’s activities
leading into the credit crisis, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  “We don’t comment on specific regulatory or legal issues,
but subpoenas are a normal part of the information request
process and, of course, when we receive them we cooperate
fully,” said David Wells, a company spokesman.  The request relates to the U.S. Senate’s  Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations  report on Wall Street’s role in
the housing market collapse, which accused New York-based
Goldman Sachs of misleading buyers of mortgage-linked
investments, the people said, speaking on condition of anonymity
because the inquiry isn’t public. The Senate report was referred
to the U.S. Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange
Commission, which are also investigating.  Erin Duggan, chief spokeswoman for Manhattan District
Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr., declined to comment.  A subpoena is a request for information and doesn’t mean
the company is a target of a criminal investigation. Analysts
including Sanford C. Bernstein’s Brad Hintz have said they don’t
expect the firm to be criminally prosecuted.  For commentary by Douglas Burns, click here.  Google Antitrust Probe by U.S. May Mean Years of Self-Defense  Google Inc. (GOOG)  may be forced to spend years defending itself
in a U.S. Federal Trade Commission investigation that could be
the government’s biggest antitrust probe since the  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  case.  Even if Google ultimately prevails, the probe might create
uncertainty around the company’s business, slowing its momentum,
lawyers and analysts said. Federal courts ruled that Microsoft
engaged in illegal monopoly practices in a dispute that
stretched over two U.S. presidential administrations.  The agency is likely to examine whether Google is using its
position in Internet search to subdue rivals in adjacent markets
with threats and jacked-up advertising rates, the lawyers said.
The company’s conduct in new sectors, such as mobile devices,
also will probably be a focus, they said.  The FTC has alerted technology companies that it plans to
gather information from them for the probe, three people
familiar with the matter said last month.  The FTC’s investigation is the latest example of government
regulators’ growing concern that the Mountain View, California-
based company is restricting competition on the Internet.  The European Union and the state of Texas have begun
investigations and the U.S. Justice Department is monitoring
Google’s compliance with an agreement letting it purchase ITA
Software Inc.  Google has set aside $500 million for a U.S. government
investigation into online pharmacy ads the company accepted that
may have violated the law, a person familiar with the matter
said.  Mistique Cano, a spokeswoman for Google, said in an e-mail
that the company “understands that with success comes
scrutiny.”  “We are happy to answer questions about our business, as
we have during four separate reviews by the federal government
over the past four years,” she said.  For more, click here.  Korean Regulator Criticized for Failing to Probe Banks  South Korea’s financial watchdog came under increased
scrutiny over its monitoring of savings banks after Prime
Minister Kim Hwang Sik said it resisted probes by the state
auditor into the lenders last year.  The  Financial Supervisory Service , or FSS, tried to
dissuade the Board of Audit and Inspection from examining
savings banks between January and April 2010 for suspicion of
improper lending, Kim told lawmakers yesterday in Seoul. Kim was
chairman of the state auditor at the time, before taking his
current post in October.  The ruling Grand National Party on June 1 proposed a probe
by an independent counsel into savings banks amid growing
speculation that regulators overlooked illicit activity at the
lenders.  Allegations by the prosecutor’s office come as the FSS is
tightening oversight of foreign banks’ securities trading to
prevent rapid capital flows from disrupting markets. The
regulator said this week London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
Paris-based  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  were penalized for improperly
outsourcing Korean branches’ derivatives trading to branches in
Hong Kong.  For more, click here.  IRS Allows Extension of Deadline for Offshore Disclosure  The  Internal Revenue Service  will let taxpayers with
undeclared offshore accounts apply for a 90-day extension of the
Aug. 31 deadline for coming forward.  The change, announced on the IRS website yesterday, would
let taxpayers apply for the extension in writing by showing that
they have made a “good-faith attempt” to meet the deadline and
explain what information they are missing.  The IRS is conducting its second voluntary offshore
disclosure program, allowing taxpayers to pay penalties related
to undeclared accounts to avoid criminal prosecution.  A similar program ended in October 2009 and attracted about
15,000 taxpayers.  MUFG May Get Systemically Important Status, Deutsche Bank Says  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest
publicly traded bank, may be defined as one of the most
important lenders to the international financial system,
according to  Deutsche Bank AG. (DB)   Status as a so-called global systemically important
financial institution will probably be given to the Tokyo-based
bank because of its ties with Morgan Stanley, said Yoshinobu
Yamada, an analyst at Deutsche Bank in Tokyo.  The designation would subject Mitsubishi UFJ to higher
capital requirements that it can likely meet without selling new
shares, he said. Smaller rivals  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  may be classified as
national systemically important financial institutions because
their operations overseas are comparatively limited, Yamada
said.  Global regulators are tightening capital and liquidity
rules to prevent another financial crisis. The Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision is discussing forcing the world’s most
important banks to hold capital buffers equivalent to as much as
3 percent of risk-weighted assets, people familiar with the
negotiations said in March. As many as 26 financial firms could
be forced to hold extra capital, according to a participant at a
meeting of the Financial Stability Board last week.  EU, IMF Wind Up Greek Review as Second Bailout Readied  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
today complete a review of Greece’s plan for 78 billion euros
($113 billion) in asset sales and austerity measures as they
prepare the nation’s second bailout in little more than a year.  The assessment caps a week when Greece’s fiscal crisis
worsened enough for Moody’s Investors Service to raise the
probability of a default to 50 percent. Greek Prime Minister
George Papandreou will discuss the findings at 3 p.m. on a visit
to his Luxembourg counterpart, Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads
the group of euro-area finance ministers.  The lifeline may incorporate a role for bondholders as
European leaders try again to prevent the euro area’s first
sovereign default. Their May 2010 rescue failed to stem an
investor exodus from Greece and the Greek government now faces a
funding gap of 30 billion euros next year with 10-year borrowing
cost above 16 percent,  Europe ’s highest debt load and the
economy in a three-year slump.  Papandreou is promising 6.4 billion euros of spending cuts
this year, another 22 billion euros up to 2015, and 50 billion
euros in sales of assets. Moody’s downgraded Greece to Caa1, on
a par with Cuba, and raised the nation’s risk of default on June
1. The move prompted Greek 10-year bonds to fall to the lowest
since January.  For more, click here.  Courts  Namibia Competition Commission to Appeal Wal-Mart Court Ruling  The Namibian Competition Commission said it appealed a
ruling that declared conditions it imposed on the takeover by
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  of  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)  as invalid.  The appeal was lodged yesterday in the Supreme Court, the
Windhoek-based regulator said in a faxed statement yesterday.
Wal-Mart this week won the approval of South Africa’s
Competition Tribunal to buy a controlling stake in Johannesburg-
based Massmart with conditions. It needs the same approval in
Namibia for the transaction to take effect in the southern
African country.  Namibia’s Competition Commission recommended the
transaction be approved in that country on condition that it
guarantee jobs won’t be cut and that it offers shares to black
citizens.  Interviews/Speeches  Carbon Market May Bring Financial Bubble, Bolivian Envoy Says  The global carbon market, valued at about $124 billion in
2010, may create a new financial bubble and is a poor way to
address the climate crisis, Bolivia’s United Nations ambassador
said.  “The possibility of a new financial bubble that will be
created through this carbon market is very big,”  Pablo Solon ,
Bolivia’s ambassador to the UN and the country’s chief climate
negotiator, said in a telephone interview.  The comments open a new argument in Bolivia’s effort to
keep CO2 trading off the agenda at the UN climate talks. Solon
spearheaded an effort at last year’s gathering in Cancun,
Mexico, to exclude carbon-market mechanisms from a program
designed to protect forests.  Solon’s opposition to the measures fed into a rift between
rich and poor nations that derailed the UN talks two years ago
in Copenhagen. His concerns were overruled in December in
Cancun, allowing the discussions to progress.  Climate negotiators will gather for UN talks in Bonn
beginning June 6.  For more, click here.  Dodd-Frank Rules Will Help Derivatives End-Users, Gensler Says  Dodd-Frank Act rules for the derivatives market will help
manufacturers and other corporate end-users compete for better
prices from Wall Street dealers, said  Gary Gensler , chairman of
the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission .  “The financial community maintains information advantages
over their nonfinancial counterparties,” Gensler said in a
speech prepared for a New York conference of the  National
Association of Corporate Treasurers . Swap buyers don’t generally
know how much other customers pay for similar trades because
Wall Street banks don’t disclose the prices, Gensler said.  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are writing
new regulations required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the financial
overhaul enacted last July, after largely unregulated swaps
helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. Dodd-Frank seeks to reduce
risk and boost transparency in the  $601 trillion global swaps
market  by having most swaps guaranteed by central clearinghouses
and traded on exchanges or other venues.  Lobbying groups including the  Business Roundtable  are
pressing regulators to ensure that end-users don’t need to set
aside margin in their swap transactions to reduce risk, which
would force them to set aside millions of dollars that could be
invested elsewhere. Lobbyists for end-users have criticized a
proposal from bank regulators that could require the companies
to post margin.  For more, click here.  Dimon to Shun Mortgage Ownership Under Proposed Capital Rules  Jamie Dimon , chairman and chief executive officer of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said the bank probably won’t keep
mortgages on its books under a plan requiring the largest
lenders to hold extra capital.  Dimon made the remarks yesterday at a Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. investor conference in New York.  The proposal will distort U.S. markets, what consumers pay
for credit and the types of risk banks would be willing to
retain on their balance sheets, Dimon said.  “It’s got consequences that I don’t think they’ve really
thought about,” Dimon said of regulators.  Central bankers and financial supervisors worldwide are
devising capital, liquidity and risk-management standards for
banks, known as Basel III.  The plan also may distort the market favorably for JPMorgan
as its borrowing costs probably will decrease and deposits may
climb compared with less-capitalized competitors, he said.  For more, click here.  EU’s Barnier Says Convergence Can Prevent Regulatory Arbitrage  U.S. and European regulators must work toward convergence
on financial-industry rules that prevent firms from benefiting
from regulatory arbitrage, European Union financial markets
commissioner Michel Barnier said.  “I want to make sure we act in parallel,” Barnier, the
EU’s top financial regulator, said yesterday during a Bloomberg
News interview in  Washington . “We are not there yet.”  Barnier came to the U.S. capital to meet with officials
including Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner as he pushes
for greater coordination on rules to govern firms whose failure
might imperil the global economic system, as well as the $601
trillion over-the-counter swaps market.  Differences have emerged between the U.S. and EU since
leaders from the Group of 20 biggest industrialized and emerging
economies agreed after the 2008 credit crisis to implement broad
financial regulation principles by the end of 2012.  “Europe is not going to be under American supervision,”
he said. “ There will be reciprocity. There will be either
convergence or reciprocity.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 