-- 
BHP Coal Mine Workers Vote in Favor of Right to Strike

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-06-03T05:03:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/union-says-no-strikes-against-bhp-coal-for-at-least-a-week.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, may face the first strikes at its
Australian coal mines in a decade after workers voted in favor
of the right to take industrial action.  The union remains in talks with the  BHP Billiton Mitsubishi
Alliance  after members today voted to support the right to take
industrial action, Stephen Smyth, president of the Construction,
Forestry, Mining and Energy Union’s mining and energy division
in Queensland, said in a phone interview. There’s no possibility
of a strike until after a workers’ meeting on June 10, he said.  About 4,000 union members at all seven mines in the Bowen
Basin in Queensland state owned by BMA, the world’s largest
exporter of steelmaking coal, are lobbying for improved working
conditions. Unions in  Australia  are stepping up demands for job
security and wage rises as surging commodity prices have mining
companies including Melbourne-based BHP forecast to report
record annual profit.  “BMA is continuing to meet with unions to complete
negotiations around the remaining points of a new agreement,”
BHP spokeswoman Samantha Stevens said today by phone. “We
continue to make progress and as such we believe any industrial
action would be premature. BMA and the unions have scheduled
further meetings through to the end of July.”  Should negotiations break down, the union will give workers
the option of taking industrial action, including strikes, Smyth
said. The union would need to give BHP three days notice before
any strikes could legally start, he said.  Output Threat  Any stoppages may further cut output at BHP, which reported
a 14 percent drop in production last quarter as torrential rains
in the early part of the year flooded mines. The nation’s coking
coal exports plunged to 7.9 million metric tons in February, the
lowest monthly volume since February 2009.  Almost all of the coal produced at the mines, with annual
production capacity of 58 million tons, is shipped overseas for
steel production, BHP said on its website. BMA is equally owned
by BHP and Mitsubishi Development Pty. It directly employs more
than 4,800 people, according to the website.  The union has been in negotiations for better  job security 
for more than five months, Steve Pierce, a vice president of the
 Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union  in the state,
said yesterday. One of the sticking points is a demand by
workers to have a bigger say in a new “extended roster system”
that the company plans to introduce, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  