-- 
Turkish Inflation Jumps Most Since 2002

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 
2011-06-03T09:59:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/turkey-inflation-rate-rises-more-than-expected-on-food-clothing-prices.html
Turkish inflation accelerated by the
most in almost a decade, undermining the central bank’s argument
that it can restrain growth and prices without raising  interest
rates . Bonds weakened the most in two months.  Inflation surged to 7.2 percent in May from 4.3 percent a
month earlier, the statistics office in Ankara said on its
website today. It was the biggest increase in the annual rate
since January 2002 and exceeded all the forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey of 12 economists, the median of which was 5.7 percent. In
the month, prices rose 2.4 percent.  The central bank had predicted that May inflation would
exceed the year-end goal of 5.5 percent. The bank is seeking to
restrain credit growth in an economy that expanded 8.9 percent
last year and argues that higher reserve requirements for banks
can do the job without raising interest rates. The benchmark
one-week repo lending rate has stayed at a record low of 6.25
percent since January.  “Inflation and the current-account positions are flashing
red lights and suggesting clearly that the economy is
overheating,” Tim Ash, head of emerging-market research at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said in an e-mail.
“ Turkey  needs fiscal and monetary policy to be more
aggressively tightened now.”  Yields on benchmark two-year lira bonds rose as much as 27
basis points to 9.02 percent, the biggest increase since March
23. Yields gained 21 basis points to 8.96 percent at 12:02 p.m.
in Istanbul.  Low-Rate Policy  The bank’s low-interest-rate policy is designed to deter
short-term inflows and prevent the lira from strengthening. The
currency has weakened almost 3 percent against the dollar this
year, increasing the price of imported goods.  Oil prices  have
risen about one-third in the last year.  Inflation slowed to a four-decade low of 4 percent in March
and has accelerated since then.  Core inflation , which excludes
energy, food and tobacco prices, accelerated to an annual 4.7
percent in May from 4.4 percent a month earlier.  Clothing prices jumped 11.7 percent in May and food prices
rose 4.7 percent, compared with a 4.4 percent drop a year
earlier due to better harvests. Global food-price inflation is
likely to persist as higher crude oil prices add to costs, the
 United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization  said on May 12.  The bank next meets to set rates on June 23, 11 days after
nationwide elections in which Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is seeking a third term in office. Polling companies
including Pollmark and IKSara show his  Justice and Development
Party  is likely to win the most votes.  ‘More Hawkish Tone’  “Prepare for a decidedly more hawkish tone from the
central bank, coupled with fiscal tightening action from the
government,” Simon Quijano-Evans, chief economist for the
region at ING Groep NV in London, wrote in an e-mailed
statement. The bank’s statement after its rate meeting on May
25, explaining why it left the benchmark rate and reserve
requirements unchanged, “showed that they did not want to rock
the boat ahead of elections.”  Governor Erdem Basci on April 28 raised the bank’s forecast
for year-end inflation to 6.9 percent from 5.9 percent because
of higher oil prices and taxes on imported textiles. Inflation
is expected to accelerate in the second quarter before slowing
in the third, he said.  Basci has added 10 percentage points to  reserve
requirements  since December, aiming to reduce the amount of
money banks can lend. Consumption growth is “moderating,” the
central bank said May 25.  Revising Targets  Turkey’s current-account deficit, forecast by the
government at $39.3 billion or 5.4 percent of gross domestic
product this year, reached $60.5 billion in the 12 months
through March as growth boosted demand for imports. The
government says it will revise economic targets after the
election.  The cost of goods leaving Turkish factories and mines rose
an annual 9.6 percent in May, compared with an increase of 8.2
percent the previous month, the statistics agency said today.
Producer prices rose 0.2 percent in the month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 