-- 
Turkish Yields Advance Most in Four Months as Inflation Exceeds Estimates

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-06-03T15:01:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/turkish-yields-surge-most-in-4-months-as-inflation-exceeds-bets.html
Turkish bonds fell, raising yields
the most in two months, after inflation accelerated by the most
in almost a decade and spurred speculation of a rate increase by
the central bank.  Yields on benchmark two-year debt climbed 27 basis points
to 9.02 percent, the biggest increase since March 23, and closed
at 8.88 percent at 5 p.m. in Istanbul, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The lira gained 0.2 percent to 1.5781 per
dollar, its strongest level in two weeks.  Inflation surged to 7.2 percent in May from 4.3 percent a
month earlier, the statistics office in Ankara said on its
website today. It was the biggest increase in the annual rate
since January 2002 and exceeded all the forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey of 12 economists. In May, prices rose 2.4 percent.  “This is way higher than the economists’ expectations,”
Isik Okte, a trader at Istanbul-based Finans Invest, wrote in e-
mailed comments. “Now the markets believe that rate hikes will
come at an earlier date.”  The central bank has increased  reserve requirements  for
banks four times since December in a bid to slow lending, while
keeping the benchmark one-week repo rate at a record low 6.25
percent.  There are “clear signs surely now for the central bank
that the economy is overheating and they need to move away from
their unorthodox policy response,” Tim Ash, head of emerging-
market research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, wrote in a
note to clients.  Current-Account Gap  The  ISE National 100 index (XU100)  of stocks slid 0.5 percent to
close at 62,806.94.  Turkey ’s current-account deficit, forecast by the
government at $39.3 billion or 5.4 percent of gross domestic
product this year, reached $60.5 billion in the 12 months
through March as growth boosted demand for imports.  “The main flipside is the widening current-account
deficit, and until we get more hawkish comments from the central
bank, the lira looks set to come under further pressure,” Simon Quijano-Evans, chief economist at ING Groep NV in  London , said
in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  