-- 
Vancouver Passion for Canucks Tops Olympics as Champions Drought Nears End

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-06-03T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/vancouver-s-passion-for-canucks-tops-olympics-as-drought-finally-nears-end.html
Vancouver chiropractor Richard
Cleland says nothing in the city’s sports history -- not even
the  2010 Winter Olympics  -- compares to the excitement of the
 Vancouver Canucks ’ bid to win the  National Hockey League ’s
Stanley Cup for the first time.  “It supersedes the Olympic experience,” said Cleland, 38,
who attended Canada’s gold-medal victory over the U.S. in men’s
hockey last year. “This is the best opportunity we’ve had to
win the cup in the 40-year history of the franchise.”  A  poll  released this week by Ipsos Reid found more than 80
percent of British Columbians are “excited” about the Canucks’
playoff run, compared with 53 percent who were enthused about
the Olympics before they began in February last year. The poll
surveyed 459 people.  “It’s kind of like the passion the ‘Original Six’ team
cities have,” said Jeff McCord, managing director of Vertex One
Asset Management in  Vancouver , referring to the league’s first
teams in Boston,  Chicago ,  Detroit ,  Montreal ,  New York  and
Toronto, before the addition of new franchises beginning in
1967. “It’s all consuming.”  McCord, whose firm manages C$1.5 billion ($1.53 billion),
said he expects the level of fan interest in the city of 2.5
million people to rise as the series resumes tomorrow night in
Vancouver before moving to Boston’s TD Garden next week.  Vancouver began the series June 1 with a 1-0 win over the
Bruins at sold-out  Rogers Arena , as Raffi Torres scored with 19
seconds left in regulation time. The Canucks’ victory was on the
same rink where Sidney Crosby’s overtime goal on the last day of
the Winter Games lifted  Canada  to a 3-2 victory over the U.S.  Fans Gather  Not far from Rogers Arena, more than 5,000 fans, many
wearing blue-and-white colored Canucks jerseys, watched the game
on big screens as a light rain and thunder failed to dampen the
atmosphere.  “It really brings the town together -- even people who
aren’t fans are jumping on the bandwagon and supporting our
team,” fan Brianna Ashleigh said during the festivities.  The top-seeded Canucks are listed as the 1-2 favorite to
win the cup by Las Vegas Sports Consultants, which advises that
city’s casinos on betting lines. Vancouver lost in the
championship series in 1982 and 1994. The Canucks, who joined
the NHL for the 1970-71 season, are also trying to become the
first Canadian team to win the  Stanley Cup  since the  Montreal
Canadiens  in 1993.  Bruins Drought  The Bruins seek to end a drought of their own. They’ve lost
five times in the Stanley Cup Final, most recently in 1990,
since collecting the last of five NHL titles in 1972.  With Olympic memories fresh, Canucks fans are hoping their
team will prevail in step with the 1977 Canadiens and the 1989
 Calgary Flames , both Stanley Cup champions the year after the
cities hosted the Olympics. Canada won 14 gold medals at
Vancouver, the most by any country in the 86-year history of the
Winter Games.  “What we’re seeing here is people getting way more engaged
with their team than ever before,” Ian Telfer, chairman of
Vancouver-based  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s second-largest gold
miner, said in a telephone interview. “Thousands of fans are on
the streets, literally wearing their support for the team.”  The excitement has translated into lofty asking prices for
game tickets in Vancouver, said Ben Kessler, director of
communications at New York-based  SeatGeek.com , a search-engine
for concerts and sports events. Prime seats are offered for as
much as $4,369, on average, or about 60 percent more than
comparable tickets to the  National Basketball Association  finals
between the  Miami Heat  and the  Dallas Mavericks .  Real Estate Prices  “When you see tickets this highly demanded and prices this
high you can definitely believe that there’s excitement in
Vancouver,” Kessler said in a telephone interview.  Goldcorp’s Telfer, who plans to attend games in Vancouver
and  Boston , said the ticket prices aren’t surprising given
Vancouver’s real-estate market.  In 2010, Vancouver had the third-highest housing costs
among English-speaking cities worldwide, according to Canada’s
Frontier Centre for Public Policy.  “For Vancouverites, who have among the highest  home prices 
on the planet, I don’t expect $5,000 will stop them from having
a once-in-a-life-time experience,” Telfer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Jay Beberman at   jbeberman@bloomberg.net . 