-- 
Vinashin, Aurora Empowerment, Madoff: European, Asian Bankruptcy

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-03T12:11:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/vinashin-aurora-empowerment-madoff-european-asian-bankruptcy.html
Vietnam  Shipbuilding Industry Group,
the state-owned company with more than $4 billion of debt, asked
holders of a local-currency bond it defaulted on in April to
write off as much as 90 percent of the money owed, according to
a bondholder who met company officials.  Vinashin told creditors at the meeting in Hanoi it is
unable to make any loan payments until 2015 at the earliest,
Pham Viet Bac, general director of Ho Chi Minh City-based Sabeco
Fund Management, which holds 30 billion dong ($1.5 million) of
Vinashin bonds, said by phone.  “I’m very disappointed,” said Bac. The shipbuilder also
declined to provide a copy of its latest audit, he said.
Vinashin failed to pay a 9 percent coupon due on April 13 on a 3
trillion dong, 10-year bond issued in 2007.  Vinashin’s financial difficulties have raised concerns
about government support for state-owned companies as it tries
to speed up a privatization drive, locally referred to as
equitization. Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has also asked
police to investigate whether there are any signs of corruption
at the shipbuilder.  “I want the company to be transparent to its creditors,”
Bac said. “We have the right to know.”  Vinashin Chief Executive Officer Truong Van Tuyen declined
to comment when reached by phone at his office. Calls to
Chairman Nguyen Ngoc Su weren’t answered.  The shipbuilder also asked foreign lenders for a one-year
extension after missing a $60 million principal payment in
December for a $600 million loan, Chairman Su said in February.
The company hired  KPMG  to conduct a business review, he said.  The December missed payment showed that government support
for banks and state companies isn’t guaranteed, Moody’s
Investors Service said in an April 20 report.  Moody’s cut Vietnam’s credit rating one level to B1 on Dec.
15, citing the risk of a balance of payments crisis and
Vinashin’s “debt distress.” Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings Ltd. also cut Vietnam’s credit rating last year.  Aurora to Fight Solidarity’s Liquidation Application, Union Says  Aurora Empowerment Systems Ltd., a South African mining
company run by a nephew of President  Jacob Zuma  and a grandson
ofNelson Mandela, will contest a liquidation application
brought against it by the Solidarity labor union.  Solidarity commented in an e-mailed statement.  UBS Unit’s Madoff Fund Ties Weren’t Disclosed in E&Y Report  A  UBS AG (UBSN)  unit’s ties to  Bernard Madoff ’s investment fund
weren’t divulged in an auditor report by Ernst & Young LLP to
Luxembourg’s regulator.  The 2008 report didn’t mention Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC in a list of custodians the Zurich-based bank
used, according to a copy obtained by Bloomberg News. An
agreement existed between UBS Luxembourg SA and Madoff’s firm
which allowed the Ponzi scheme operator to be sub-custodian for
LuxAlpha Sicav-American Selection, Jean Guill, the Luxembourg
finance regulator’s director general, said in an interview.  “As of October 2007, the bank used mainly a network of 16
correspondent banks” which typically also acted as sub-
custodians for investment funds, according to the so-called long
form report signed in January 2008 by Ernst & Young, UBS
Luxembourg’s auditor. The report doesn’t mention Madoff’s firm
on a “complete list of correspondent banks” used by UBS for
investment funds in its care, including several funds that were
found to be tied to Madoff after his arrest in December 2008.  UBS and its local units are defendants in more than 100
lawsuits in Luxembourg filed by investors who lost millions of
dollars through the funds, for which it acted as custodian,
charged with overseeing and managing deposits and payments to
investors. Irving H. Picard, trustee liquidating Madoff’s
business, sued the bank last year in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 New York  seeking at least $2.5 billion. He claims UBS “actively
assisted” in the  Ponzi scheme  by sponsoring and administrating
international feeder funds that invested with Madoff.  Ernst & Young declined to comment.  UBS said it maintains its position that the LuxAlpha fund
was created at the request of wealthy clients who wanted a fund
that allowed them to continue investing with Madoff and that was
made clear to the investors, their advisers and the regulator.  “UBS does not have responsibility to these shareholders
for the unfortunate results of the Madoff scandal,” Dominique Gerster, a bank spokesman, said in an e-mail.  According to  2002 rules  issued by the Luxembourg regulator,
the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier, the long
form report auditors submit must be “concise, clear and
critical” and provide findings on financial and organizational
aspects of collective-investment funds covering their
“relationship with the head office, the custodian and the other
intermediaries.”  Among a list of investment funds for which UBS’s Luxembourg
unit acted as custodian bank as of November 2007, the document
lists several Madoff feeder funds, such as the Luxembourg-based
LuxAlpha -- which lost 95 percent of its approximately $1.4
billion in assets -- and Luxembourg Investment Fund.  Essar, Astorg Among 6 Companies Interested in A-Tec, Format Says  Essar Group of  India , French private equity firm Astorg
Partners and Penta Investments Ltd. are among companies
potentially interested in bidding for insolvent  A-Tec Industries
AG (ATEC) , Format magazine reported, without saying where it got the
information.  A list of ten interested buyers has been reduced to six,
the Vienna-based magazine said. The other three parties are a
 London  investment company and companies from China and India,
 Format  cited an unidentified A-Tec manager as saying.  Should A-Tec fail to find a buyer by June 30, the company
will be sold off in parts, according to the report.  Harbinger Says Northern Rock Shares Worth $530 Million  Harbinger Capital Partners, the hedge fund run by
billionaire  Philip Falcone , said holders of Northern Rock Asset
Management Plc’s preferred shares should be paid 322.5 million
pounds ($527 million).  The fund owns a “substantial” amount of the shares and
asked a London court to reject the determination from a
valuation expert appointed by the British government, which now
owns the bank, that the shares are worthless.  Mark Phillips , a lawyer for the New York-based fund, said a
“fire sale” of the bank’s assets after the U.K. nationalized
the lender depleted its value by 4 billion pounds.  “That destroyed the value that had already been there,”
Phillips said. Northern Rock was “asset-rich, but cash-poor.”  Northern Rock shares peaked at 1,251 pence in early 2007,
before falling to 90 pence on Feb. 15, 2008, when they were
suspended. The bank, based in Newcastle,  England , was then
nationalized, becoming the first U.K. casualty of the credit
crunch. Northern Rock nearly collapsed in 2007 after seeking
emergency funding from the  Bank of England  and suffering a run
on its deposits.  Andrew Caldwell  of BDO International was appointed in
September 2008 to value Northern Rock and determine how much
shareholders should get back. He said in court filings posted on
his  website  that he determined the amount payable “is nil.”  Harbinger said in court papers the preferred shares were
once worth 400 million pounds and, based on expert reports, a
reasonable amount of compensation is 322.5 million pounds.  “Nil is utterly unreasonable,” Phillips said.  Northern Rock shareholders including  RAB Capital Plc (RAB)  and
SRM Global lost a July 2009 court bid for a review of how the
equity of the bank would be valued. The U.K. has committed about
1.4 trillion pounds in direct investments, asset insurance and
loan underwriting to bolster the nation’s banking system.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 