-- 
Volcker Named to Panel That Will Advise on Too-Big-to-Fail

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-06-03T21:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/volcker-named-to-panel-that-will-advise-fdic-on-too-big-to-fail.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul
Volcker  and former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  co-chairman John Reed have
been named to a Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. panel that will
help the agency map strategy for unwinding too-big-to-fail
financial firms when they collapse.  Volcker, who advised President  Barack Obama  during
negotiations over what became the Dodd-Frank Act, was named to
the FDIC’s 18-member Advisory Committee on Systemic Resolutions
along with Reed and current executives including BlackRock Inc.
fixed-income chief  Peter Fisher . The panel’s first meeting is
set for June 21.  “Congress has given the FDIC a tremendous amount of
responsibility to ensure that financial organizations formerly
deemed too big to fail will no longer receive taxpayer funded
bailouts,” FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  said today in a statement.
“The Advisory Committee we created brings together some of the
best and brightest minds to augment the groundwork that the FDIC
has already put into place.”  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted last year, gave
the FDIC expanded power for resolving systemically important
financial firms in the event of a collapse. Lawmakers granted
the authority to prevent a repeat of the market tumult that
followed the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., which sparked a credit freeze that led to
government bailouts for companies including Citigroup.  ‘Living Wills’  Bair, who is scheduled to step down on July 8, pushed for
the resolution authority to be placed with her agency, citing
the regulator’s experience shuttering big banks such as
 Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)  and IndyMac Bancorp. The FDIC is
currently drafting rules for the resolution authority, including
seeking “living wills” from firms outlining how they should be
unwound in event of a failure.  Firms subject to regulation as systemically important still
must be designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council,
the panel of regulators assigned the task under Dodd-Frank.  The FDIC panel will provide guidance on the economic
effects of large-firm failures and how resolution strategies
would affect stakeholders, according to the release. The
committee, which will also address relations with overseas
regulators, is expected to meet at least twice a year.  Donaldson, Kohn  In addition to Volcker, Fisher and Reed, who has expressed
misgivings about regulatory changes that permitted banks like
Citigroup to become so complex, the panel includes former
Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman William Donaldson,
former Fed governor  Donald Kohn , and  Standard & Poor’s  President
Deven Sharma among its members.  Other members include H. Rodgin Cohen, senior chairman at
law firm Sullivan & Cromwell LLP; Stanford University Professor
Anat Admati; Michael Bodson, chief executive officer of the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.; Charles A. Bowsher, former
U.S. comptroller general; and Michael Bradfield, a former FDIC
official.  Also, Janine Guillot, chief operating investment officer at
the California Public Employees’ Retirement System; Richard J. Herring, a professor at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton
School; Freddie Mac Chairman John Koskinen; Jerry Patchan,
former director of the executive office of the U.S. Trustee;
University of Chicago Professor Raghuram G. Rajan; Gary Stern,
who served as president and CEO of the Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Minneapolis; and Simon Johnson, a professor at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology ’s Sloan of School of Management who is
also a Bloomberg View columnist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  