-- 
Wal-Mart Plans $15 Billion Buyback That May Boost Walton Family’s Control

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-06-03T20:12:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/wal-mart-approves-15-billion-buyback-program-as-profit-growth-accelerates.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  renewed plans to
buy back as much as $15 billion of its shares, potentially
bolstering the Walton family’s control of the world’s largest
retailer.  The buyback replaces a previous $15 billion repurchase
announced June 4, 2010, Chief Financial Officer Charles Holley
said today at Wal-Mart’s 41st annual meeting. About 14,000
people attended the gathering in Fayetteville, Arkansas.  Repurchases have boosted the founding Walton family’s
ownership to about 48 percent as of March from 38 percent in
March 2003, according to Deborah Weinswig, an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. New York-based Weinswig estimates the family may
gain a majority of the shares by the end of next year.  Ownership of more than 50 percent amounts to a “premium-
free takeover of the company,”  Charles Elson , director of the
University of  Delaware ’s Center for  Corporate Governance , said
in an interview before the buyback was announced.  Since March 2003, when the Waltons owned about one-third of
the retailer, the shares had gained 15 percent through May 31.
That’s about one-fifth of the increase in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Consumer Staples Index. Wal-Mart had acquired about $13
billion in shares under the previous buyback program.  Family’s Control  “Walmart’s share repurchase virtually guarantees that the
Walton family will control over 50 percent of the common stock,
possibly within a few months,” Per Olstad, acting legal counsel
of  CtW Investment Group , said in an e-mail. “This could be the
last annual shareholder meeting where the company is required to
meet the board independence requirements under the NYSE listing
standards.” The pension funds affiliated with union-backed CtW
hold an estimated 7 million shares in Wal-Mart.  David Tovar , a spokesman for Wal-Mart, said the company has
no plans to use NYSE exemptions. The exchange’s rules state that
a “controlled” listed company can claim an exemption from
having a majority of independent directors and from having fully
independent nominating and compensation committees.  “Wal-Mart and the Walton family believe an independent
board is an important part of our corporate governance,” Tovar
said.  Wal-Mart rose 11 cents to $53.66 at 4:02 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped less
than 1 percent this year.  Profit Growth  The company was founded in 1962 when brothers Sam and Bud Walton opened the first store in Rogers,  Arkansas . It was
incorporated as Wal-Mart Stores Inc., on Oct. 31, 1969 and
shares were listed on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972.  Wal-Mart’s “governance is sufficient,” Timothy Hoyle,
vice president of research at Haverford Investments, which has
$6 billion under management including Wal-Mart shares, said in
an interview. “If I am not happy with management or the board,
I can sell.”  While profit growth has accelerated, Wal-Mart’s U.S.
comparable-store sales have fallen for eight straight quarters
as shoppers grapple with rising grocery and gasoline prices and
persistent unemployment. To stem the declines, Chief Executive
Officer Mike Duke and U.S. Chief Bill Simon have added thousands
of products back to the shelves and announced plans to open
smaller outlets.  Express Stores  Wal-Mart plans to open 15 Express stores of about 15,000
square feet in Arkansas,  North Carolina  and  Chicago  this year.
The first Express store in Gentry, Arkansas, will open June 8,
and includes take-home meals such as $5.98 pepperoni pizzas.
Some Express stores will include a pharmacy and gasoline pumps.
The Gentry store carries about 12,000 products, compared with an
average of 142,000 at Wal-Mart’s supercenters.  The economy created 54,000 jobs in June, and the jobless
rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.1 percent, to the highest level
this year, from 9 percent a month earlier, the Labor Department
said earlier today.  Confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly declined in
May to a six-month low as Americans’ outlook for income growth
and business hiring worsened, the Conference Board said May 31.
Slower than expected job and wage growth means  consumer
spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy,
may remain in check.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  New York  at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 