-- 
Water, Dialysis Only Treatments for Deadliest European E. Coli Outbreak

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-06-04T13:26:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/water-dialysis-only-treatments-for-deadliest-european-e-coli-outbreak.html
Doctors treating the world’s
deadliest E. coli outbreak have little beyond water and dialysis
machines to help them clear the contagion from patients,
according to infectious disease specialists.  The new strain of E. coli, which has killed at least 18
people in  Europe , produces a poisonous by-product called shiga
toxin that damages the kidneys of some patients and requires the
use of dialysis to scrub the blood clean. Some patients need
transfusions after the bacteria dissolves their red blood cells,
said Robert Tauxe, deputy director of food-borne illness at the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  Germany alone has reported 520 cases of the kidney ailment.
Overall, 1,833 cases of E. coli infection have been confirmed,
the  European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control  said
today. In less severe cases, doctors use fluids to maintain
hydration and stream the diarrhea-causing toxins through the
body. Antibiotics don’t help, and can worsen the illness.  “It’s clearly a more severe disease than is normally seen
because of this kidney failure association,” said Stephen
Calderwood, chief of the infectious disease division at
 Massachusetts General Hospital  in  Boston . “There is some data
that if you keep the patient hydrated it may lessen the  kidney
disease . What is recommended is supportive treatment -- no
antibiotics but maintain hydration.”  No Antibiotics  Antibiotics can’t be used because they increase the release
of toxins into the bloodstream, compounding kidney damage,
Calderwood said. The one class of antibiotics that doesn’t do
this, known as carbapenems, is unlikely to help with E. coli,
though they may be useful for patients who are simultaneously
fighting additional infections, he said.  Authorities are investigating a restaurant in Luebeck,
Germany, as a possible source of cases in the outbreak,
 Luebecker Nachrichten  reported today. Seventeen people fell ill
in mid-May after eating at the restaurant in the northern
coastal city, the newspaper said, without saying where it got
the information. Investigators from the Robert Koch Institute
and the  Federal Institute for Risk Assessment  arrived in Luebeck
yesterday, the newspaper said.  Spokespeople at the Berlin-based Robert Koch Institute
couldn’t be reached for comment today.  Similar Symptoms  The new E. coli strain, previously identified in isolated
cases but never linked to an outbreak, begins with symptoms
similar to more common types of the bacteria. Diarrhea starts
anywhere from two to seven days after eating tainted foods,
though most cases occur in the three- to four-day range.  The diarrhea often contains blood and can be accompanied by
fever, abdominal cramps and vomiting, Claudia Stein, director of
health information, evidence and research at the  World Health
Organization  in Geneva, said in a telephone interview.  “It makes your guts bleed; the bloody diarrhea is really a
hallmark,” Stein said. “Somebody with bloody diarrhea should
not wait. Go straight to their medical practitioner and report
this, and then they have to be hospitalized.”  At the hospital, patients will be given fluids to begin the
cleansing process, intravenously if necessary, she said.  Usually Harmless  All humans carry  E. coli  in their intestines, and those
strains are usually harmless, according to the Stockholm-based
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Some
variants cling to the walls of the intestine and produce toxins
that cause illnesses ranging from diarrhea and nausea to the
potentially fatal kidney complication, known as hemolytic uremic
syndrome, or HUS.  In addition to the 520 German cases of the kidney illness
linked to the spread of E-coli, another 31 have been reported in
 Sweden , Spain,  Denmark , the U.K., the Netherlands and  Poland ,
the European disease agency said today. Seventeen people in
Germany and one in Sweden have died, the agency said.  By comparison, the biggest  outbreak  in the U.S. of a toxin-
producing E. coli killed four children, gave 41 people HUS and
sickened about 700. That event, linked to a different strain,
occurred as the result of tainted meat served at the Jack in the
Box Inc. fast-food chain in 1993.  When patients develop kidney damage from E. coli, it
typically begins 5 to 10 days after the initial symptoms. In
some cases, the diarrhea subsides before signs of kidney damage
appear. That’s because it takes days for the toxin to be
transported through the blood to the kidney and damage kidney
cells, Calderwood said.  Kidney Damage  In the European outbreak, the kidney damage appears to be
starting sooner than in previous outbreaks, he said. It may be
that the strain can shed the toxins into the blood stream more
quickly or more completely than in previous outbreaks, though
more research is needed, he said.  Patients with  kidney failure  must be treated for weeks
using dialysis machines, said Michael Osterholm, director of the
Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the
 University of Minnesota .  “The number of critical-care beds that are available for
people are limited,” Osterholm said. “If this were to grow
much larger, there certainly would be a challenge to the health-
care delivery system of Germany.”  Most Recover  Most patients recover, though some sustain long-term kidney
damage. Children who have recovered from past outbreaks can have
long-term complications that include lifelong high blood-
pressure, Calderwood said.  The outbreak hasn’t shown definitive signs of slowing,
according to the WHO. Researchers are still trying to determine
the source of the outbreak.  “The history of outbreak investigations in the U.S. shows
that produce outbreaks can be very challenging to isolate the
cause,” Caroline Smith DeWaal, director of  food safety  for the
Center for Science in the Public Interest in  Washington , said in
a telephone interview. “Produce outbreaks can be very, very
hard to identify the specific food source.”  People who were sickened ate more salad than healthy
individuals, according to two studies of the German outbreak
released by the Robert Koch Institute, Germany’s disease control
agency. About 95 percent of the patients who became ill had
eaten either lettuce, tomatoes or cucumbers, the institute said
in an e-mailed statement.  U.S. Produce  The U.S. gets 0.2 percent of its produce from Germany and
 Spain , because the shelf life of fresh fruits and vegetables is
short, said David Elder, the  Food and Drug Administration ’s
director of regional operations, in a conference call with the
news media. All produce from Germany and Spain is being checked
by inspectors before it’s allowed to enter the U.S., he said.  Bans on imports of EU vegetables would be
“disproportionate,” the European Commission said in a
statement today. The commission’s Employment, Social Policy,
Health and Consumer Affairs Council will discuss consolidating
European efforts to address the outbreak at a meeting in
Luxembourg on Monday, Commissioner John Dalli said in the
statement.  Four cases of E. coli infection in the U.S. have been
reported among people returning from trips to  Germany , according
to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  E. coli spreads through fecal matter. Vegetables are
sometimes infected during production by water tainted by
bacteria from farm animals. It spreads human to human when
people don’t wash their hands, most frequently in day care and
in nursing homes, according to Calderwood.  Range of Ages  Most kidney damage historically has occurred among
children, Calderwood said. A previous outbreak in  Scotland 
affected adults, but primarily targeted people older than the
age of 65. The Germany outbreak is unique because it’s affecting
a broad range of ages of adults, mostly women, he said.  Washing vegetables is helpful to prevent sickness, though
it doesn’t eradicate the bacteria, Osterholm said. A speck of
microscopic bacterium is sufficient to infect a person, and
rinsing vegetables offers inadequate protection, he said.  Cooked vegetables are safe to eat, according to the WHO.
Cooked foods should be kept hot before eating and should be
stored in a cold refrigerator afterwards.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Randall in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  