-- 
Wells Fargo Chief Says Economy Improves as More Homeowners Make Payments

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-06-03T15:54:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/wells-fargo-chief-stumpf-says-economy-overall-is-improving.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Chief Executive
Officer  John Stumpf , manager of the biggest U.S. home lender,
said the economy is improving and that he sees signs of a
turnaround in some housing markets.  While energy costs are a challenge,  home prices  in some
regions have found a bottom, Stumpf told investors today during
a conference sponsored by Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Stumpf
spoke less than an hour after the latest data on U.S. labor
markets showed employers added the fewest number of workers in
eight months and unemployment unexpectedly rose to 9.1 percent.  Jobs are the main ingredient in determining whether
homeowners keep up with their loans, Stumpf said, adding that
overdue payments have been declining.  “American pay their bills if they have jobs,” he said
during a discussion about home-equity loans. As for purchases,
homes in some cases are cheaper to buy than to rent, he said.  Wells Fargo made a $3.76 billion first-quarter profit, a 48
percent gain on the same period in 2010. The San Francisco-based
lender’s mortgage-banking income declined 18 percent from a year
earlier as originations fell.  Credit Quality  The bank posted a $1 billion pretax gain due to stronger
credit quality as it cut provisions for future losses on bad
loans. Credit quality will continue to improve even “if the
economy goes sideways,” Stumpf said.  Stumpf, who replaced Richard Kovacevich as CEO in 2007,
said that financial industry regulations represented a “new
normal” which have cost the bank income. Wells Fargo’s revenue
fell 5.8 percent in the first quarter to $20.3 billion. The
regulations were brought on by a slump in the economy and banks
themselves, Stumpf said.  Wells Fargo faces an erosion of fees from overdrafts as
well as a potential loss of income from debit cards due to
federal regulations. Stumpf said he was optimistic the bank
could replace some of the lost revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  