-- 
TMX Group Gets Takeover Approval From Canadian Competition Authority

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-03T15:14:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/tmx-group-gets-go-ahead-from-canadian-competition-authority.html
TMX Group Inc. (X) , the Toronto Stock
Exchange owner facing rival takeover offers, was cleared by
Canada’s competition authority to pursue its C$3.46 billion
($3.53 billion) combination with  London Stock Exchange Group
Plc. (LSE)   Canada’s commissioner of competition issued a “no action
letter” in connection with the deal, confirming that she
doesn’t intend to challenge the transaction, the Toronto-based
company said today in a statement.  The LSE and TMX require more than a dozen approvals from
government and regulators for its Feb. 9 agreement to combine,
including endorsements from five Canadian provincial bodies
including Ontario and  Quebec , the federal government and the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Canada’s federal government gets a say under the Investment
 Canada  Act process, where the country’s industry minister
reviews the deal to determine whether it’s a “net benefit” to
the country. Industry Minister Christian Paradis has 45 days to
review the application, which was submitted by the exchange
owners on April 29. The timeframe can be extended 30 days.  LSE’s Feb. 9 agreement would give TMX shareholders 2.9963
shares for each they own, in a deal valued today at C$46.59 a
share. LSE investors would own 55 percent of the combined
company, to be named LTMX Group Plc, while TMX shareholders
would hold the rest. Shareholders of both exchange owners will
vote on the agreement at meetings on June 30.  A group of Canadian banks and pension funds is also seeking
to buy TMX in a C$48-a-share cash-and-stock offer. TMX has
dismissed the proposal by Maple Group Acquisition Corp., saying
it’s not superior to the LSE agreement.  The bids for TMX are part of more than $30 billion in
takeover offers for exchanges that have been announced globally
in less than six months, as bourses try to cut costs and
generate more revenue from trading in stocks, options and
futures.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; Nick
Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  