-- 
Yemen’s President Survives Shelling of Compound

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r ,   D o n n a   A b u   N a s r   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-06-03T18:02:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/yemen-s-saleh-survives-shelling-of-presidential-palace-compound-in-capital.html
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh
escaped serious injury in the shelling of his palace compound in
the capital, Sana’a, one of his ministers said, as the conflict
in the Arab world’s poorest nation intensifies.  It wasn’t immediately clear who attacked the compound.
Crude oil for July delivery fell on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  to $98.12, the lowest intraday price since May 24,
after Al Arabiya television carried a report by the opposition
broadcaster Suhail that Saleh had been killed while trying to
escape from the presidential palace. Contracts recovered to
$99.97 a barrel at 1:38 p.m., down 43 cents from yesterday’s
settlement price.  “The president is fine,” Minister of Industry and Trade
Hisham Sharaf said in a telephone interview from his home. “I
saw him. He has some scrapes on his head.” Sharaf said he was
in the courtyard of the palace mosque during the attack. Sharaf
said he saw Saleh taken away by car “to a safe place.”  The Cabinet will meet today “to take all measures to
respond to this,” the minister said.  Parliamentary Speaker Yahya al-Raiee was seriously wounded
and Prime Minister Ali Mujawar and one of his deputies were also
hurt, Sharaf said. Imam Ali Mohsen al-Matari survived the attack
with injuries, state-owned Saba news agency reported, after
earlier saying he was killed. A number of other officials and
officers were wounded, Saba reported.  ‘Counter Escalation’  “One would expect a counter escalation,” Sheila Carapico,
professor at Richmond University in  Virginia , said in a
telephone interview from Cairo. “That’s why this is dangerous.
It will almost certainly provoke the forces that he and his
family command to strike back.”  Fighting in Sana’a between Saleh’s security forces and
supporters of Sadiq al-Ahmar, leader of the Hashid, Yemen’s most
influential tribe, entered a fifth day after the breakdown of a
truce mediated by tribal leaders. Government supporters attacked
protesters in the southern city of Taiz.  Saleh’s party called the attack an “assassination
attempt” and a statement carried by Saba news agency called for
investigations. It didn’t accuse anyone by name. Sadiq al-
Ahmar’s office denied any role in an e-mailed statement, saying
Saleh had orchestrated the attack himself to justify crimes of
the regime.  Thousands of opposition members said Friday prayers at
Sana’a’s Sixty Meter Street, where protesters chanted slogans of
solidarity with the residents of Taiz, the southern city where
violence has also intensified. “Freedom for Taiz” and “the
people want the trial of mass killers,” they shouted.  Threat From Al-Qaeda  Saleh’s government has said increasing social unrest
threatens to strengthen al-Qaeda, a concern also expressed by
the U.S. The group has sought to use Yemen as a base from which
to destabilize neighboring  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest
exporter of crude oil, and for attempted attacks on
international targets including two U.S. synagogues last year.  The government and the tribal group have blamed each other
for breaking a cease-fire that briefly halted fighting that had
raged for three days last week.  The Republican Guards, led by one of Saleh’s sons, police
and armed men in plain clothes fired today on protesters in
Taiz, Bushra al-Maktari, a protest organizer, said by telephone.
More than 15,000 people marched in the city to condemn a
government attack on anti-Saleh demonstrators that began May 29
and lasted until the early hours of May 30, she said. At least
21 people were killed in that crackdown.  Pro-government rallies planned by Saleh supporters today in
Sana’a or Taiz failed to take place.  Scores of people have been killed since the conflict
between Saleh’s loyalists and al-Ahmar’s men broke out last
week. The violence followed Saleh’s refusal to sign a Western-
backed accord brokered by the Gulf Cooperation Council requiring
him to give up power within 30 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 