-- 
Saleh Flies to Saudi Arabia for Medical Treatment, Yemen’s Government Says

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u   N a s r   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h   A b d   A l h a m i d
-- 
2011-06-04T23:35:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/yemen-president-saleh-survives-bombing-attempt-that-injures-prime-minister.html
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh,
wounded in a deadly attack on his compound yesterday, flew today
to  Saudi Arabia  for medical treatment as Yemen’s vice president
took over his duties, a Yemeni government spokesman said.  Yemen’s vice president Abduraboo Mansur Hadi has taken over
Saleh’s duties “until the president returns,” government
spokesman Abdu Janadi said. Saleh arrived in  Riyadh , the Saudi
capital, with about two dozen members of his family, al-Jazeera
said, without citing its sources.  There were conflicting reports about the extent of Saleh’s
injuries as a one-week cease-fire between his loyalists and
anti-government tribal forces took effect after a week of
escalating violence. Saudi  King Abdullah  mediated a truce
between the warring forces late yesterday, according to tribal
fighters.  Saleh walked from the plane and had signs of burns on his
face and chest, according to a correspondent for  Al Arabiya . He
was accompanied by about 35 people, he reported. Saleh was
admitted to a military hospital, Al Arabiya reported.  Earlier, ministers had said Saleh sustained only facial
scratches during the rocket attack, after which state television
aired a phone call from him late yesterday in which he said he
was “OK” and blamed the family of tribal leader Sadiq al-Ahmar
for the violence.  Saudi-Brokered Truce  Al-Ahmar, who leads the Hashid tribal confederation, said
his side is committed to the Saudi-brokered truce, though there
had been breaches by Saleh’s forces, according to the opposition
al-Sahwa website.  Scores of people have died since the conflict between Saleh
loyalists and Sadiq al-Ahmar’s men broke out last month. The
violence followed Saleh’s refusal to sign a Gulf Cooperation
Council-sponsored accord requiring him to step down within 30
days in an effort to quell anti-government protests by Yemenis
that began early this year amid uprisings elsewhere in the
region. Saleh has held power since 1978.  The Yemeni leader said soldiers and officers were among
those killed. Al Arabiya cited an unidentified presidential
official as saying the toll had risen to 11 dead and 124
injured. The attack was followed by the bombardment of the house
of opposition lawmaker Sheikh Hamid al-Ahmar, Sadiq’s brother,
in which 19 people were killed and 40 wounded, Hamid’s office
said in an e-mailed statement. Hamid al-Ahmar was unharmed and
is in a safe location, his office said.  Industry and Trade Minister Hisham Sharaf said by phone
that he saw Saleh in Sana’a earler today, and denied media
reports that Saleh’s facial injuries were burns.  ‘In Good Health’  “The president is in good health -- his mind is working,
he is moving and he can give orders,” said Sharaf in a
telephone interview. The president is “more determined than
ever that he will not leave power until he knows that  Yemen  is
safe and sound and that the only armed forces on the ground are
the legitimate military forces. He will not leave without a
clear mechanism for such a transition and without ensuring that
there are no sources of danger that could take over power.”  Prime Minister Ali Mujawar, two of his deputies and
Parliament Speaker Yahya al-Raiee were injured in the palace
attack and were taken to Saudi Arabia for treatment, the state’s
Saba news agency said.  Saleh’s party called the attack an “assassination
attempt.” Al-Ahmar’s office denied any role, saying in an e-
mailed statement that Saleh had orchestrated the attack himself
to justify the regime’s crimes.  Hamid al-Ahmar, a member of the Islamic Islah party, called
for an uprising against Saleh in 2006. The houses of two other
al-Ahmar brothers were also attacked yesterday as well as the
residence of General Ali Mohsen al-Ahmar, who broke with the
military in March and supports the GCC initiative.  Civil War Fears  The assaults that followed the targeting of the palace were
“mad efforts by which some are trying to drag the country into
fighting and civil war, driving away the peaceful revolution
from its peaceful track,” a group of military defectors who
back the anti-Saleh protests said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Amid the surge of violence, the commander of a military
base in the southern city of Taiz, Jubran al-Hashidi, defected
and announced support for the protest movement, the News Yemen
website said today. His action came after he was besieged in his
office and urged to defect by soldiers who had refused to fire
on demonstrators in Taiz, according to the website.  Troops loyal to Saleh later withdrew from Taiz, and looting
ensued. The prosecutor’s office in northern Taiz was among the
places hit by looters, Fuad Ali, a witness, said by phone.  The Republican Guards, led by one of Saleh’s sons, along
with police and armed men in plain clothes, fired yesterday on
demonstrators in Taiz, Bushra al-Maktari, a protest organizer,
said by telephone. More than 15,000 people marched in the city
to condemn a government attack on anti-Saleh demonstrators that
began May 29 and lasted until the early hours of May 30, she
said. At least 21 people were killed in that crackdown.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  