-- 
Pfizer Plans China Low-Cost Generics Drug Venture With Hisun

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-03T05:20:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/zhejiang-hisun-shares-jump-after-pfizer-drug-venture-plan.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  plans to partner with
China’s Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. to produce low-
cost generics for the world’s third-biggest drug market. Hisun
shares rose the most in seven months in Shanghai.  Pfizer is looking for new sources of revenue before it
loses U.S. patent protection in November for Lipitor, the
cholesterol medication that was the world’s best-selling drug
last year with $10.7 billion in sales. Off-patent medicines,
including branded generics, are one of the fastest growing
segments in the global pharmaceutical market, Pfizer and Hisun
said in a joint press release issued late yesterday.  “The joint venture will mainly target the local market in
China while also exploring opportunities in global markets,”
said Neena Moorjani, a spokeswoman for Pfizer, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. The two companies “will focus on
branded generic medicine” and “could contribute selected
existing products,” she said, adding their combined investment
in the potential venture would amount to about $295 million.  China ’s pharmaceutical market, the world’s third largest,
is predicted to grow at least 25 percent this year, according to
U.S. based pharmaceutical research firm IMS Health. Generics
account for 60 percent of the domestic market, Pfizer and Hisun
said in the release.  Pfizer is already the top  drug company  in China ranked by
sales, followed by AstraZeneca PLC and Sanofi, according to IMS
Health.  Shares Gain  “The potential joint venture would be an important
milestone for Pfizer’s efforts to broaden the reach of its
world-class healthcare solutions in China,” David Simmons,
Pfizer’s head of Established Products and Emerging Markets, said
in the press release.  Hisun shares rose 2.9 percent to 36.92 yuan at the 11:30
a.m. trading break in  Shanghai , after earlier gaining as much as
7 percent, the largest intraday increase since October.  --Daryl Loo. Editors: Nicholas Wadhams,  Garry Smith .  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7540
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  