-- 
Zimbabwe’s Electoral Roll Has ‘Impossible’ Number of 100 Year-Old Voters

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-06-03T13:23:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/zimbabwe-s-electoral-roll-has-impossible-number-of-100-year-old-voters.html
Zimbabwe’s electoral register is
flawed and won’t allow for a credible election in the southern
African nation, the South African Institute of Race Relations
said.  The registrar general, Tobaiwa Mudede, should be replaced
ahead of a referendum, expected to take place this year, and
elections, the Johannesburg-based institute, known as  SAIRR ,
said in a report published on its website. SAIRR said Mudede
supports President  Robert Mugabe ’s Zimbabwe African National
Union-Patriotic Front and that the register has “an impossible
figure” of more than 40,000 people older than 100 years.  “In practice, a referendum held when there is such
controversy over phantom voters would be bound to be
challenged,” the institute said.  Mugabe has called for elections to be held this year, while
Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai , the leader of the Movement for
Democratic Change, wants a new constitution in place before a
vote. The parties formed a coalition government in 2009 after
the MDC accused Zanu-PF of electoral-fraud and violence during a
2008 election. The country, which has the second biggest
reserves of platinum after neighboring  South Africa , has a
population of about 12 million people.  The voters register contains names of 132,540 people more
than 90 years-old, 4,368 of who didn’t appear on previous rolls,
SAIRR said. The report is based on a digital copy of Zimbabwe’s
October 2010 voters’ roll, which hasn’t been publicly released.  Extremely Dangerous  Given that the average  life expectancy  in Zimbabwe is less
than 45, the number of people older than 90 “is completely
incredible,” it said. The register contains more than 41,199
centenarians, “an impossible figure,” SAIRR said. A total of
16,828 names on the roll were for people born on Jan. 1, 1901,
it said.  The voters register “is not only a wholly incredible
document but an extremely dangerous one, which lends itself to
all manner of electoral manipulation and ballot stuffing,”
SAIRR said.  The list of potential voters used in  Zimbabwe ’s previous
parliamentary and presidential elections contained “at least”
2 million fictitious voters, it said.  The register “isn’t a matter of dispute and has always
been largely accurate,” Mudede said by phone from Harare, the
capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  