-- 
Zynga Close to Hiring Goldman to Lead IPO

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-06-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-03/zynga-said-to-be-close-to-hiring-goldman-sachs-to-lead-ipo-extend-credit.html
Zynga Inc. is in talks to have
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lead its initial public offering and
provide a credit line of more than $1 billion to help make
acquisitions, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  Goldman Sachs is expected to make a decision by today, said
the person, who asked not to be named because the announcement
hasn’t been made public. Zynga, the largest maker of games for
Facebook Inc.’s site, is preparing to file for an IPO by the end
of this month, the person said.  Social-media companies are lining up for IPOs after shares
of LinkedIn Corp., the largest professional-networking site,
more than doubled in their debut two weeks ago. Groupon Inc.,
the biggest online coupon site, announced plans yesterday to
raise up to $750 million in an IPO, and music streaming service
Pandora Media Inc. is seeking as much as $123.2 million.  As of early last week, Zynga had met with representatives
of Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , both based in  New York , and
was close to choosing bankers, a person familiar with the matter
said at the time. Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and Credit
Suisse Group AG are underwriting Groupon’s IPO.  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Zynga,
declined to comment, as did  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for
Goldman Sachs.  Zynga has 242.1 million monthly active users on Facebook,
more than six times as many as the second-biggest developer,
according to research firm  AppData.com . The company owns three
of the four most popular apps on the site -- “CityVille,”
“FarmVille” and “Texas HoldEm Poker.”  Virtual Goods  The games are free to play, with the company making money
by selling digital -- or virtual -- goods within the apps and
letting players pay to reach higher levels. The worldwide
virtual-goods market is expected to more than double to $20.3
billion in 2014, from $9.28 billion last year, according to
ThinkEquity LLC, a San Francisco-based research firm.  Zynga has acquired at least 10 companies in the past year,
helping it expand beyond Facebook games and into smartphone
apps. The company bought  Newtoy Inc. , maker of “Words With
Friends,” in December. Four months later, it  acquired 
Wonderland Software, creator of “GodFinger.”  Zynga is valued at $8.2 billion on SharesPost Inc., an
exchange that connects buyers and sellers of privately held
companies. That makes it the second-most valuable U.S. game
company, after Activision Blizzard Inc. Electronic Arts Inc. is
third, at $8.1 billion on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Zynga
recently hired former Electronic Arts Chief Operating Officer
John Schappert for a senior role.  Zynga is  backed  by venture firms Foundry Group, Union
Square Ventures, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Institutional
Venture Partners and Andreessen Horowitz. Russia’s Digital Sky
Technologies and Google Inc. are also stakeholders. In February,
Zynga was in talks to raise funding at a valuation of about $10
billion from T. Rowe Price Group Inc. and  Fidelity Investments ,
two people familiar with the matter said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 