-- ‘Color Purple’ Pales as Corny Plot Torments Heroine
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-07-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/-color-purple-pales-as-corny-plot-torments-heroine.html
It ran on Broadway for more than two
years, and had three major American tours. Now, for its U.K.
debut, “The Color Purple” is trimmed to fit the plucky 180-seat
Menier Chocolate Factory near London Bridge.  The musical, based on Alice Walker’s novel, tells of the
tribulations of a poor little black orphan named Celie. We first
meet her in 1914. She’s been raped by her stepfather, and we
watch as the resulting child is ripped from her arms. She’s then
married off to a brute whose favorite hobbies are adultery,
psychological torture, and cracking his whip all over the place.  Celie is forced to part with her beloved sister Nettie, and
Nettie’s many letters are hidden from her. When Celie eventually
reads them she discovers that Nettie is living in  Africa ,
trembling with fear during a violent military coup.  Back in the States, Celie’s spunky friend Sofia is blinded
in a racist beating. Celie gets a lesbian lover called Shug, who
leaves her for a young man.  What, no fire in the orphanage? No crazed hounds slobbering
at Celie’s heels? The authors clearly missed a few tricks.  Events shoot past like tennis balls, which means there’s
not much time for nuance.  “Go near that mailbox, and I’ll kill you,” sneers the
tyrant husband, just in case you’d forgotten that he’s the
villain of the piece.  “Ain’t nuttin’ better than a good beatin’,” chirps the
chorus to show how awful a black woman’s lot is.  Corn God  It’s OK, though, because this the kind of show where the
heroine learns to stand up for herself once she’s sung the title
song, a theologically fuzzy pantheistic anthem about finding God
in a blade of corn.  “Corn” is the word.  With all this suffering to get through, it’s amazing that
Cynthia Erivo (Celie) gives the wonderful performance that she
does. Thankfully, she makes the show watchable. Her stillness
has a vibrating intensity, her climactic burst of anger throbs
with authority, and her voice is terrific.  Nicola Hughes and Sophia Nomvete do the best they can with
the underwritten roles of Shug and Sofia respectively. If you
blink, you might even miss the fact that Shug and Celie become
lovers, so chaste is their dry little peck of a kiss.
Christopher Colquhoun blusters and stomps as Celie’s brutal
husband.  Musical Cooks  The music is by Brenda Russell, Allee Willis and Stephen
Bray, which suggests a broth with too many cooks.  You can imagine their conversation -- “I’ll do the gospel
chorus, you write the blues number, and you can do the power
ballad.” There’s no organic moment when story and song magically
gel. It’s efficient and forgettable.  John Doyle’s pared-down production takes place on a bare
thrust stage, with just a piece of white cloth and a few chairs
for props. It moves along smartly, and works just fine.  The  Menier  has had several musical successes and transfers,
including most recently the superb “Merrily We Roll Along”
currently playing in the West End. “The Color Purple” is
unlikely to join their ranks. Rating: **.  “The Color Purple” is at the Menier Chocolate Factory.
 http://www.menierchocolatefactory.com  or +44-20-7378-1713.  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  James Clash  on
adventure,  Laurie Muchnick  on books and  Stephanie Green’s  Scene 
in D.C.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 