-- L’Oreal Shares Decline as Sales Growth Disappoints
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-07-17T07:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/l-oreal-shares-may-decline-after-sales-growth-misses-estimates.html
L’Oreal SA, (OR)  the world’s largest
cosmetics maker, fell in Paris trading after second-quarter
sales growth missed estimates amid a slowing market.  The  shares  slid as much as 3.3 percent and were down 3.2
percent at 124.7 euros as of 9:22 a.m., the  steepest drop  in
 France ’s benchmark  CAC 40 Index. (CAC)   Sales rose 5.2 percent excluding acquisitions, disposals
and currency shifts, Paris-based L’Oreal said yesterday after
markets closed. That compared with the prior quarter’s 5.5
percent advance and the 5.4 percent median estimate of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. A slowdown in North American
revenue growth to 4.5 percent from 6.3 percent in the previous
quarter was the main concern of analysts.  The deceleration in  North America  was “underwhelming” and
a negative “surprise given the stronger economic consumer
backdrop,” Alex Howson, an analyst at Jefferies International
Ltd., said by phone. “There is clearly a bit less spend on the
category and competition and promotion has been a bit harder.”  Global beauty-market growth is slowing slightly to about
3.5 percent to 4 percent, L’Oreal’s financial communications
director Thierry Prevot said yesterday on a call with reporters.
Still, the maker of Giorgio Armani fragrances and Maybelline
makeup expects to outperform the industry and remains confident
of another year of sales and profit growth, he said.  The Body Shop and L’Oreal’s dermatology and luxury units
“disappointed most relative to our expectations,” Eamonn Ferry, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, said in an e-mail.  Body Shop  A 0.8 percent decline in like-for-like revenue at the Body
Shop and the luxury division’s 5.5 percent gain were the worst
quarterly performances since the last three months of 2010,
according to  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.  Total revenue for the quarter rose 4.2 percent to 5.81
billion euros ($7.6 billion), L’Oreal said. The average estimate
of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 5.77 billion euros.  “The trends of the group’s flagship brands are favorable
and more than ever before, our major product initiatives are
really making a difference,” L’Oreal Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Paul Agon said in the statement.  L’Oreal is scheduled to report first-half earnings Aug. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  