-- 125 Republicans Seen Pulling Camp to More Extensive Redo
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-07-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/125-republicans-seen-pulling-camp-to-more-extensive-redo.html
The top Republican tax writer in
Congress is being pulled toward a more extensive rewrite of the
U.S. code, with more than half of his party’s members in the
House backing proposals to rip up the rules.  More than 125 House Republicans have supported proposals
that include ending the income tax and terminating the entire
code in 2018 to force Congress to create a simpler system.
Sixty-eight of them favor what they call a “fair tax”
replacing the income, payroll and estate levies with a national
sales tax. Dozens back estate-tax repeal proposals. A flat-tax
bill has 10 Republicans on board.  Rank-and-file Republicans’ support for bold changes may
move Representative Dave Camp of  Michigan , the party’s top tax
writer, in their direction even as he tries in coming months to
draft a plan that could attract some Democratic support. Camp
must try to satisfy Republicans eager for a major shakeup while
leaving a path to a bipartisan agreement with the Democratic-controlled Senate and President  Barack Obama .  “We’ll have our share of boldness,” Camp, 60, said in an
interview last week. “Tax reform will be bold. There’s no other
way to do it, so we’ll just see how bold everybody wants to
be.”  Camp, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, has been
meeting with all 34 first-term House Republicans to hear their
ideas on taxes. There are no first-term members on the Ways and
Means panel, and 44 percent of the party’s members have been in
the House for fewer than four years.  Flat Tax  “I love the flat tax, and I’m not afraid of getting rid of
every deduction,” said Representative Thomas Massie, a Kentucky
Republican who became a House member in November 2012 after
winning a special election to fill a vacant seat.  Camp’s attempt to balance his party’s preferences with his
desire to make lasting law is challenged by the dynamics of the
House, which has 234 Republicans and 201 Democrats. The party’s
proposals on the budget, agriculture programs and prioritizing
U.S. debt payments were written to appeal to the Republican
base, which has resisted bipartisan approaches. All three
measures were passed without a single Democratic vote.  House Republicans haven’t yet grappled as a group with the
details of tax policy, making it hard to tell whether or how the
party will coalesce on one of its top priorities.  Furthermore, a decision by lawmakers to co-sponsor a bill
to enact a sales tax or terminate the tax code would still allow
them to support something Camp proposes. Instead, those
expressions of support send signals about their priorities to
their home-district supporters and to Republican leaders.  Two Levels  Proposals like the national sales tax and flat tax probably
aren’t in the cards. Camp has said he wants a two-level income
tax for individuals and said he would keep the system about as
progressive as it is now.  He also opposes capping breaks for charitable contributions
and has said the mortgage interest deduction should be
approached “carefully.”  Consumption taxes such as a national sales levy could make
the system less progressive, or even regressive, by rewarding
people who don’t have to spend all their money each year on
living expenses.  Representative Mark Meadows, a North Carolina Republican
and fair tax cosponsor, said he’s met with Camp three or four
times already.  Before Meadows entered Congress this year, he was a North
Carolina real-estate developer, in an industry reliant on tax
breaks like the mortgage interest deduction. Now, he’s working
to reduce those advantages.  Dramatic Rewrite  Meadows and other junior Republican House members are among
the most eager supporters of a dramatic rewrite of the U.S. tax
code that could sweep away many tax breaks to pay for lower
marginal rates. Meadows said he’s telling his home state’s real-estate industry that a big change is the best approach, even if
it looks like it would cause harm to some.  “We can’t do it onesie, twosie,” he said, acknowledging
that some taxpayers might lose cherished breaks along the way.
“We’ll make up for all of it with a faster-growing economy.”  Camp wants to reduce the top corporate tax rate to 25
percent from 35 percent and set the top individual rate, now
39.6 percent, as close to 25 percent as possible. He would do
that while raising the same amount of money for the government.  Republicans’ interest in tax policy prompted House Speaker
John Boehner to set aside the symbolic designation of H.R. 1 for
Camp’s eventual bill, signaling its priority to the party.  Attracting Democrats  The more Camp tries to satisfy the right, the harder it
will be to attract Democrats in his committee or on the House
floor.  “You can’t doubt his sincerity,” said Representative
Richard Neal, a Massachusetts Democrat and a senior Ways and
Means member. “But that in and of itself doesn’t get you
there.”  Democrats aren’t sure what to expect from Camp, who has
held individual meetings with Democrats on his committee. He has
set a goal of committee approval by the end of the year, meaning
that he will need to release what’s known in Congress as a
chairman’s mark, or complete bill, with enough time to get input
from members and schedule a vote.  “The need now is to see a chairman’s mark,” Neal said.
“At least that will crystallize the thinking.”  Some Republicans may be wary of Camp’s details, too.  Steve Womack, an Arkansas Republican, said there are good
reasons why Congress enacted tax breaks for education and health
care.  Country’s Priorities  “I would like to be able to protect some of those
interests but, at the same time, to what extent would we protect
them?” he said. “So I’m kind of anxious to see, as it unfolds,
what does the committee establish as being priorities for our
country that we need to encourage through tax provisions?”  Womack, first elected in 2010, also said he wants a
reduction in the total amount of taxes collected, which Camp
isn’t proposing.  “It’s really, really important that tax relief is part of
that process,” Womack said.  Representative Kevin Brady of  Texas , a senior Republican on
Ways and Means, said committee members have been “diligent” in
spelling out the tradeoffs that lawmakers will have to make.  “The freshmen and sophomores are going to be a big part of
driving tax reform forward,” Brady said. He said he hoped
Republicans would be excited by lowering individual tax rates to
about the levels they reached under President Ronald Reagan.  “The House has to pass its very best idea, hopefully
bipartisan,” Brady said. “But if not, we know the ultimate
product with this Senate and this president will be bipartisan,
at least if we’re going to do tax reform in the next three
years.”  The Camp bill will be H.R. 1. The Fair Tax bill is H.R. 25.
The flat tax bill is H.R. 1040. The tax code termination bill is
H.R. 352.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  