-- Labor Board Seen at Full Strength After U.S. Senate Deal
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-07-17T16:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/labor-board-on-path-to-full-strength-after-nominee-deals.html
The U.S. labor board may return to
full strength next month after Senate leaders struck a deal to
jettison two nominees opposed by Republicans and vote on
replacements.  Senate Republicans agreed yesterday to speed confirmation
of the  National Labor Relations Board  nominees in return for
President  Barack Obama  dropping the Democrats he appointed in
2012 when the Senate wasn’t meeting. Obama nominated Nancy Schiffer, former AFL-CIO associate general counsel, and Kent Hirozawa, chief lawyer for the board’s chairman, and withdrew
the names of Sharon Block and  Richard Griffin .  Hearings on Schiffer and Hirozawa are planned July 23,
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said. The Senate will move to
confirm all the NLRB nominees by month’s end, he said. The
board, its legitimacy clouded after a court said the appointees
were invalid, hasn’t had five confirmed members since Obama took
office.  “It’s a mess that absolutely has to be cleaned up,”  Gary Chaison , a labor-law professor at  Clark University  in Worcester,
 Massachusetts , said in an interview. “The first order of
business would be to take a look at everything it’s decided over
the last year and to decide whether it wants to continue with
that.”  Court Decision  The nominations of Block and Griffin 18 months ago were
ruled invalid in January by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 Washington , which said Obama violated the Constitution by
appointing both without Senate confirmation. The administration
said the ruling on their legitimacy applied to a single case
reviewed by the court, and the board has continued to issue
decisions. The case has been appealed to the U.S.  Supreme Court .  As of May, about 120 challenges of board decisions were
pending in courts citing the appeals court ruling, board
spokesman Gregory King said. The Washington-based U.S. Chamber
of Commerce created a website to provide information for
employers seeking to challenge decisions involving board members
whose eligibility was questioned by the court.  The decision “gave employers who were trying to resist the
efforts of workers to form unions a chance to use their most
effective tactic, which is to delay,” Michael Wasser, a senior
policy analyst with Jobs With Justice-American Rights at Work, a
group that advocates for worker rights, said in an interview.
The most important thing is we’re going to have a functioning
NLRB.’’  Rules Change  The deal on the labor board was reached after Democrats
threatened a change in Senate rules to prevent the minority
party from blocking executive appointments to federal agencies.  From 2000 to 2012, Schiffer represented the AFL-CIO, the
umbrella federation of 57 unions led by  Richard Trumka  that
represents 12 million workers. Prior to that Schiffer worked for
the United Auto Workers Union.  In 2007, she spoke before a House panel in support of a
bill sponsored by former Senator  Edward Kennedy  that would have
made it easier for employees to form or join unions. The measure
was not passed.  “Its’ unseemly that you come directly from being Richard
Trumka’s associate counsel to the board,” Fred Wszolek,
spokesman for the Workforce Fairness Institute, a business
owners group, said in an interview. “It just sends a message to
employers: ‘Don’t bother.’”  ‘Labor Ideologues’  Prior to becoming chief counsel to board chairman Mark Gaston Pearce, Hirozawa was a partner in the  New York  law firm
Gladstein, Reif and Meginniss LLP. The firm “is organized
around the principal that workers and their organizations
deserve top-quality legal representation just as much as
corporations,” according to its website.  “They seem to be fairly staunch labor ideologues,”
Wszolek said.  Obama’s previous NLRB nominees -- Block, a former U.S.
Labor Department official, and Griffin, former general counsel
for the International Union of Operating Engineers -- also drew
criticism from a business group.  In May, a Senate committee approved Block, Griffin, Pearce
and Republicans Phil Miscimarra and Harry Johnson, lawyers who
represent management in labor disputes.  The board, now with three members, loses a quorum when
Pearce’s term expires Aug. 27 unless the nominees are confirmed.  “It won’t go out of business,” Reid said.  Board Options  As of May, the board had ruled on 919 cases since the
disputed appointments, including 215 after the court decision,
Senator  Lamar Alexander  of  Tennessee , the top Republican on the
Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, said at
a May hearing.  The board can ratify past decisions that haven’t been
appealed, as well as internal appointments that have been
challenged, said John Elwood, a former Justice Department
official now at the law firm Vinson & Elkins LLP in Washington.
The board can’t revisit decisions that have been appealed until
the courts act.  The Supreme Court probably will move ahead with the recess-appointment challenge even though the disputed board members are
being removed, he said.  “It’s conceivable that they might decide that they would
rather not take the case given that the problem is solved for
the near term,” Elwood said in an interview. “It’s still kind
of an open question in this case. The odds are better that
they’ll take it.”  The case speaks to a larger question than the board
appointees, Chaison said.  President’s Powers  “It really comes down to the question of the power of the
presidency,” Chaison said. “There has been a tradition of
presidents selecting people for the NLRB who are affiliated with
that president’s party who are like thinking. No one in Congress
would be aghast that the National Labor Relations Board is
slanted in one way or another.”  Obama appointed Block and Griffin in 2012 after Senate
Republicans blocked confirmation. At the time, House and Senate
Republicans refused to declare a recess. The Senate held pro-forma sessions every few days, often lasting less than 2
minutes, to avoid calling a recess during which Obama could make
appointments. Obama said the Senate was in recess when he named
the two Democrats.  Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat and chairman of the
Senate labor committee, said Republicans also agreed that when
another slot opens on the board in late 2014, they won’t
filibuster Obama’s nominee.  “We have a guarantee that for the remainder of Barack
Obama’s term we will have a fully functioning NLRB,” Harkin
told reporters. “That’s pretty nice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  