-- ADB Trims Developing Asia’s Growth Forecasts on China Slowdown
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-07-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/adb-trims-developing-asia-s-growth-forecasts-on-china-slowdown.html
Growth in developing  Asia  will be
weaker than initially estimated this year and next amid a slower
expansion in China and lackluster export demand from advanced
nations, the  Asian Development Bank  said.  The region’s gross domestic product will probably increase
6.3 percent in 2013 and 6.4 percent next year, the Manila-based
lender said in a report today. In April, it forecast expansion
of 6.6 percent this year and 6.7 percent in 2014.  The  International Monetary Fund  reduced its global growth
forecast earlier this month as the U.S. recovery weakens,
China’s economy levels off and Europe’s recession deepens.
China’s expansion slowed for a second quarter in the three
months through June as growth in factory output and fixed-asset
investment eased and Premier  Li Keqiang  reined in a credit boom.  “The drop in trade and scaling back of investment are part
of a more balanced growth path for China, and the knock-on
effect of its slower pace is definitely a concern for the
region,” ADB chief economist Changyong Rhee said in a
statement. “We are also seeing more subdued activity across
much of developing Asia.”  The world’s second-largest  economy  may grow 7.7 percent
this year and 7.5 percent in 2014, in part as a strengthening
 yuan  weighs on external demand and weaker domestic consumption
curbs imports, the ADB said. India may grow 5.8 percent this
year as “slow progress” in pushing through reforms constrains
growth, the report said.  Southeast Asia  will probably grow 5.2 percent this year
from an earlier prediction of 5.4 percent, the ADB said today.
Consumer prices in developing Asia are forecast to rise 3.5
percent in 2013 and 3.7 percent in 2014 as slow growth helps to
contain inflationary pressures, the ADB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  