-- Hague Says U.K.-Iran Ties Might Improve Under Rohani
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-07-16T16:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/hague-says-u-k-iran-ties-might-improve-under-rohani.html
The U.K. will respond to any moves
by Iranian President-elect Hassan Rohani to improve ties,
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said as he announced that
Britons are no longer advised against travel to  Iran  under any
circumstances.  “We will respond in good faith to positive action by
Iran,” Hague told the House of Commons Foreign Affairs
Committee in  London  today, asked whether Rohani’s election
provided an opportunity. “We are ready to improve our relations
on a step-by-step basis.” He cautioned that Iran’s power
structure is “very complex,” and it’s unsure how much
authority Rohani will have.  The Foreign Office amended its travel advice on Iran  on its
website  today, dropping a recommendation not to travel anywhere
in the country. The new advice warns against all but essential
travel to most of the country and against all travel to parts of
eastern Iran, including the Afghan and Pakistani borders.  “We assess the risks to British nationals have reduced,”
Hague told the panel. “Anti-British rhetoric has been
lessened.”  Rohani won more than 50 percent of the vote in the first
round of Iran’s presidential election in June to succeed  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , whose anti-Israel rhetoric and questioning of the
Holocaust made Iran a pariah. Rohani pledged after winning to
make  Iran’s nuclear program  more transparent, seeking to ease
tension with the U.S and reduce sanctions that have crippled the
economy.  Rohani, who takes office in August, said last month he’s
committed to his campaign promise to pursue a constructive
foreign policy. “Moderation in foreign policy doesn’t mean
surrender or conflict; it doesn’t mean passivity or
confrontation; but rather effective and constructive interaction
with the world,” he said on state television on June 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  