-- Alexion Takeover Would Be Priciest Since 2008: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-07-16T21:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/alexion-takeover-would-be-priciest-since-2008-real-m-a.html
If  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  follows through
with a purchase of  Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALXN) , it may face one
of the biotechnology industry’s most expensive takeover bills.  Roche is seeking billions of dollars in financing for a
potential purchase of the $21 billion orphan-drug maker, people
with knowledge of the situation told  Bloomberg News  last week.
Alexion, which makes a treatment for rare blood diseases, could
command at least $148 a share, said Piper Jaffray Cos. That
would value the Cheshire, Connecticut-based company at 61 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  At that price, a deal would be the biotech industry’s
richest multiple since Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. paid 137 times
Ebitda for Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. in 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Alexion’s draw is its projected
 revenue growth  of 180 percent through 2017, fueled by Soliris, a
drug that can cost about $400,000 a year.  “It’s hard to find this level of growth in biotech at this
level of revenue,” said David Ferreiro, a New York-based
analyst at Oppenheimer Holdings Inc. who sees Alexion fetching
$130 to $140 a share. “Everybody knows this is a very valuable
asset. It’s just a matter of who’s comfortable with the
valuation.”  Roche has never paid such a high multiple of enterprise
value to Ebitda, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company abandoned a hostile bid for San Diego-based  Illumina
Inc. (ILMN)  last year due to price. Illumina’s shareholders held out
for more than the 21.6 times Ebitda that Basel, Switzerland-based Roche said it was offering for the company.  Few Buyers  Ian Somaiya , a New York-based analyst at Piper Jaffray,
said Alexion should fetch $148 to $208 a share in a sale. That
would give Alexion, whose share price has  quadrupled  since the
end of 2009, an  enterprise value  of at least $28 billion, or 61
times its Ebitda from the past 12 months. That would be the
highest for any biotech deal greater than $1 billion since 2008,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A takeover of Alexion would be Roche’s largest since 2009,
when it bought the rest of Genentech Inc. for $46.8 billion, or
17 times Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It’s the
biggest biotech deal on record, the data show.  While Alexion is an appealing target, “the issue is the
price point,” Somaiya said in a phone interview. “The stock
has done phenomenally well, and not many buyers can absorb
Alexion’s size.”  Today, Alexion fell 0.8 percent to $107.04, while Roche
slipped 1.9 percent.  Daniel Grotzky, a spokesman for Roche, declined to comment
on whether it’s planning to bid for Alexion. Irving Adler, a
spokesman for Alexion, declined to comment on whether it’s been
approached by Roche.  Sanofi’s Playbook  Roche could reduce the upfront cost of a deal by borrowing
from Sanofi’s playbook. The Paris-based drugmaker used a
contingent value right to seal its about $20 billion purchase of
Genzyme Corp. in 2011. The CVR gave Genzyme stockholders rights
to payments if one of its experimental drugs meets sales goals.
Excluding the CVR, the transaction valued Genzyme at about 43
times Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Large drugmakers such as Roche are trying to revive sales
growth. Pharmaceutical companies bigger than $20 billion are
forecast to post the largest annual revenue decline in at least
a decade in 2013 after patent expirations opened the door to
generic versions of top-selling drugs, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Patent Cliff’  “There are plenty of pharma companies still searching for
their answer to the patent cliff in terms of how to rejuvenate
top-line growth,” Steven Silver, a New York-based equity
analyst at  Standard & Poor’s , said in a phone interview.
“Alexion’s growth is certainly still above average, and it’s a
very attractive area to be in.”  Though Roche’s own growth is  projected  to outpace some of
its closest rivals, acquiring Alexion could fill a hole for the
Swiss drugmaker. Roche has struggled to bring projects outside
its cancer business to fruition and said July 10 that it
suspended testing of its most advanced experimental diabetes
treatment because of safety concerns. Roche had thought the drug
could have peak sales of 2 billion Swiss francs ($2.1 billion)
to 5 billion francs.  Soliris, Alexion’s only approved product, treats two rare
blood diseases affecting fewer than 20,000 people and is among
the world’s most expensive medicines. As an orphan drug,
designed for a small number of patients with few treatment
options, it receives enhanced marketing exclusivity and is
usually covered by insurers, making it valuable to potential
acquirers.  ‘Not Cheap’  “The deal is not cheap,”  Yaron Werber  and  Andrew Baum ,
analysts at Citigroup Inc., said in a July 12 report about Roche
potentially buying Alexion. But “diversifying into orphan drugs
is a solid strategy for Roche as Soliris is a solid drug and has
little competition.”  Robert W. Baird & Co.’s Christopher Raymond agreed that
Alexion has a lot to offer for buyers.  Orphan drugs “are very much in fashion,” the Chicago-based analyst said in a phone interview. “The business model
has proven to be impervious to global market forces. It’s also
high value in terms of amount of dollars you can command per
patient per year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  