-- Alibaba First-Quarter Net Income Triples to $669 Million
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n   a n d   M a   J i e
-- 2013-07-17T08:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/alibaba-first-quarter-net-income-triples-to-669-million.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s
largest e-commerce company, tripled first-quarter profit on
surging sales as it prepares for a possible initial public
offering.  Net income rose to $669 million in the three months ended
March from $220 million a year earlier,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , which owns
a stake in the Hangzhou, China-based company, said in a
 presentation  yesterday after reporting earnings.  Alibaba, with services connecting businesses to each other
and consumers, has expanded lending, secured financing and made
acquisitions since billionaire founder Jack Ma last year said
the company may go public within five years. The valuation could
reach $62.5 billion, according to the median of eight estimates
by investment banks and research firms compiled by Bloomberg
since February, while Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Lu told
China Daily newspaper the proceeds may fund deals.  “Their earnings were driven by the online payment system
and China’s booming commerce,” said Billy Leung, an analyst at
RHB Research Institute Sdn in  Hong Kong . “I am still more
bullish on the Chinese e-commerce market. It’s still in the
early stage and will become more mature and Alibaba will
continue to benefit from the growth.”  Alibaba, formed in 1999 as an online marketplace for
Chinese companies, has grown as the wave of economic
liberalization spurred a boom in manufacturing and trade. It
expanded its workforce to more than 24,000 and added services
including cloud computing, online payments and consumer
auctions.  Eclipsing Yahoo  A valuation of $62.5 billion compares to the $104 billion
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  pricetag prior to its listing.  “Alibaba is a really trusted brand and that’s more
important in China because there are so many cowboys,” said
Mark Tanner, founder of  China Skinny , a Shanghai-based research
and marketing agency. “Alibaba is still in the early days, the
curve is going to be a lot more vertical than a Facebook.”  Alibaba spokesman John Spelich declined to comment in an e-mail on the Yahoo disclosure. The company has no timetable for
an IPO, hasn’t hired bankers and hasn’t selected a location for
a prospective public offering, he said.  First-quarter sales at Alibaba rose 71 percent to $1.4
billion, according to the Yahoo filing. The Sunnyvale,
California-based company yesterday reported earnings for the
quarter ended June and recognizes the contribution of Alibaba
one quarter in arrears.  Online Retail  In 2005, Yahoo agreed to pay $1 billion in cash for a 40
percent stake in Alibaba, which also took control of Yahoo’s
China operations. Yahoo owns about 24 percent stake of Alibaba,
a stake it values at $8.1 billion, according to the
presentation.  Alibaba’s sales in the quarter were more than the $1.1
billion reported by Yahoo for the March period.  Proceeds from the IPO would be used along with additional
cash to buy back stock held by Yahoo, a person with knowledge of
the matter said in May.  Alibaba’s initial public offering may raise HK$100 billion
($12.9 billion), according to an estimate by Ernst & Young LLP
last month.  The company last month closed the general syndication of
its $8 billion loan, three people familiar with the matter said.
In April, it agreed to pay $586 million for about 18 percent of
Sina Corp.’s Weibo, China’s largest Twitter-like service.  Yahoo  lost  1.7 percent to $26.88 in  New York  trading
yesterday. The stock has advanced 35 percent this year.  Alibaba doesn’t sell merchandise itself. Instead, it runs
platforms including Taobao Marketplace and Tmall.com that
connect retail brands with consumers, a cross between Amazon.com
Inc. and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)   Online retailing in China more than doubled each year from
2003 to 2011 and is projected to more than triple to $395
billion from 2011 to 2015, according to a McKinsey & Co. report
in March. China had 564 million  Internet users  at the end of
2012, 10 percent more than a year earlier, according to the
government-run China Internet Network Information Center.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net ;
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  