-- Ally Said to Weigh Raising $1 Billion to Pass Fed Stress Tests
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-07-17T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/ally-said-to-weigh-raising-up-to-1-billion-to-pass-fed-test-1-.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto-lender
majority owned by U.S. taxpayers, may raise less than $1 billion
in stock to help it pass the Federal Reserve’s annual stress
test, a person with knowledge of the plans said.  Ally, which didn’t pass the test earlier this year, is
considering raising the money in a private transaction, said the
person, who requested anonymity because the figure hasn’t been
disclosed. The Detroit-based firm must submit a new plan to the
central bank before it can return a $17.2 billion U.S. bailout.  The lender is considering ways to repay preferred shares
held by the Treasury Department, including using cash on hand or
issuing stock, the company said yesterday in a regulatory
filing. No decision has been made and any approach may be
subject to regulatory approval, according to the filing.  Ally, the former financing arm of  General Motors Co. (GM) , sold
about $5.9 billion of convertible preferred shares paying 9
percent to the government as part of a rescue that left the U.S.
with a  74 percent stake . Ally can redeem the preferred
securities with consent from the Treasury or if the Fed compels
a conversion, according to a May 1 filing.  A redemption would double Ally’s repayment to the Troubled
Asset Relief Program to 70 percent of what the company owed,
Jeffrey Brown, vice president of finance and corporate planning,
said on a May 1 conference call with investors. The company also
has filed to sell shares in an initial public offering.  The auto lender had a capital plan rejected in March after
regulators found “deficiencies” in its planning process and
capital ratios that failed to meet standards. The Fed doesn’t
count the preferred securities as capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  