-- Malone Yields to Vodafone in German Cable Race
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r ,   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-07-17T08:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/malone-yields-to-vodafone-in-german-cable-race-as-he-looks-south.html
John Malone , the billionaire who
controls  Liberty Global Plc (LBTYA) , said he’s out of the race for  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  and will look to southern Europe for
opportunities when the economy there starts improving.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  agreed to buy  Germany ’s largest cable
operator last month after increasing its bid to 87 euros ($114)
a share, or 7.7 billion euros, to top Liberty Global’s 85-euro
offer. Liberty Global had considered countering Vodafone’s
offer, people familiar with the matter have said.  “Unfortunately the Vodafone guys have preempted us in
trying to consolidate the rest of Germany,” Malone, 72, said in
a phone interview yesterday. “We wish Vodafone good luck. We’re
hoping they’ll be a good fellow traveler in the cable
business.”  Options for Liberty Global, which acquired U.K. pay-TV
company  Virgin Media  Inc. for $16 billion this year, to further
consolidate cable business in northern Europe are becoming
limited, Malone said. Of the 14 countries it operates in, 12 are
in Europe, with holdings in Germany,  Austria ,  Belgium , Ireland,
Switzerland, the U.K. and six other countries on the continent.  “We’re getting to the point where in northern Europe,
we’re pretty much as far as we can go,” Malone said. “If
southern Europe sort of hits the bottom, as it were, there are
things we can do further south in scale.”  Antitrust Concerns  Ben Padovan , a Vodafone spokesman, declined to comment on
Liberty’s interest in Kabel Deutschland or their interactions as
consolidators in Europe.  Vodafone plans to complete its acquisition of  Kabel
Deutschland  after the German cable operator’s shareholder
meeting in October, three people familiar with the matter said
this week. That would mean the 2.50-euro dividend promised to
shareholders would be paid by Kabel Deutschland, effectively
reducing Vodafone’s offer, which included the dividend, to 84.50
euros.  Aside from the uncertainty on whether Liberty Global would
make a counterbid, closing the deal hinges on securing
authorization from antitrust regulators. That approval was
perceived as easier for Vodafone, which has no cable assets in
Germany, since Liberty Global already controls the country’s
second-biggest cable provider.  Southern Opportunities  “We don’t expect these discussions to be very
complicated,” Vodafone Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao
said last month. Macquarie Research analyst Alex Grant concurred
in a note to investors, saying the acquisition would leave
Vodafone with a “reasonable” 18 percent broadband market share
after the transaction closes.  Cable companies in southern Europe include Spain’s Grupo
Corporativo ONO SA, France’s Numericable SAS and Zon Multimedia
SGPS SA in Portugal.  Zon shares jumped as much as 5.1 percent to 3.89 euros and
traded 4.3 percent higher at 9:01 a.m. in Lisbon. It’s the
biggest gainer by index points on Portugal’s PSI 20 Index.  Vodafone rose 0.1 percent to 193.65 pence in London. Kabel
Deutschland slipped less than 0.1 percent to 84.35 euros in
Frankfurt.  Liberty Global  dropped less than 1 percent to $79.76
in New York yesterday.  Liberty Global’s acquisition of Virgin Media was the
biggest takeover in the telecommunications industry announced
this year, which has seen deals totaling about $47 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Kabel Deutschland is
the second-largest media deal this year, the data showed. Media
transactions have totaled more than $53 billion this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  