-- ALS to Pay SCF $533 Million for Oil Well Analyzer Reservoir
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-07-16T00:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/als-to-pay-scf-533-million-for-oil-well-analyzer-reservoir.html
ALS Ltd. (ALQ) , the largest provider of
commercial testing services in  Australia , agreed to pay SCF
Partners $533 million to buy Reservoir Group, a Scottish company
specializing in analysis of oil and gas wells.  ALS, formerly known as Campbell Brothers, will sell about
A$246 million ($224 million) in new shares to help fund the
acquisition, the Brisbane-based company said today in a
statement. Aberdeen-based Reservoir specializes in analyzing
core samples and geological data from drill holes, ALS said.  The acquisition will add Reservoir’s $55 million in
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
during the year ended 31 March to ALS’s earnings as it expands
into oil and gas services. The remainder of the purchase will be
funded by debt and A$8 million in cash.  “The acquisition will considerably broaden our
capabilities in upstream oil and gas and will strongly
complement our existing laboratory services,” Greg Kilmister,
ALS’s managing director, said in a statement. “ALS will now be
able to offer clients a more integrated end-to-end service,
which will enhance our market position.”  The purchase of Reservoir and Earth Data will contribute
A$4 million to A$5 million to ALS’s projected underlying profit
of A$95 million to A$105 million in the half year ending Sept.
30, the company said.  The new shares will be offered at A$7.80 each to existing
holders, the company said, a discount of 17 percent to the close
of A$9.41 on July 12. ALS is the world’s fourth-largest testing
company by sales, after  SGS SA (SGSN) ,  Bureau Veritas SA (BVI) , and  Intertek
Group Plc. (ITRK)   To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  