-- Hamptons Scene: Lazard’s Tuft and Lewis, DiMenna, Movies
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-07-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/hamptons-scene-lazard-s-tuft-and-lewis-dimenna-movies.html
William Lewis  and Tom Tuft of  Lazard
Ltd. (LAZ)  were at the opening reception for the Southampton Center, a
new entity for the building and grounds previously used by the
Parrish Art Museum.  One knows one of the artists in the inaugural exhibition
quite well: Diane Tuft, Tom Tuft’s wife, is showing photographs
of glaciers.  “You’re melting in it,” a friend said to the artist,
whose dress’s rippling-water print echoed the image behind her.  “When I’m there, that’s what I do,” Tuft replied.  She got funding from the  National Science Foundation  to be
an artist in residence living at McMurdo Station in  Antarctica 
for six weeks. She has also worked in Iceland and Greenland,
using an infra-red camera. She first experimented with it in
Aspen, on a hot, sunny morning.  “When I finished, there was nothing left to photograph, 
it was just pieces of ice dripping.”  In another room, hedge-fund manager Joe DiMenna watched
slow-motion movies of dancers by David Michalek, joined by
Stefan Reyniak, a private-equity executive, and his wife,
Pauline Reyniak, a former dancer with the  New York City Ballet .  Reyniak said the work is meditative and peaceful, slowing
down time and “creating space to discover the profound,
beautiful moments that we never notice in real time.”  Michalek arrived, identifying one dancer from  Senegal ,
another from  Indonesia .  He filmed 56 dancers in his studio on West 23rd Street.
Some wore their national costumes, others had garments designed
for them. The project is called “Slow Dancing.”  Michalek supports his artistic projects through private
commissions.  Father’s Day  DiMenna received one of the artist’s pieces as a Father’s
Day present; it’s in his foyer and features his daughters. He’s
talked with Michalek about filming his horses, though it would
be tough to bring the animals into the studio where Michalek has
the lighting and backdrops for his process.  DiMenna is a polo player; his team, Equuleus, named after
the constellation, will be taking part in a polo tournament
benefiting the  Robin Hood Foundation  on Aug. 11.  Also on view is a Bentley Meeker project, shooting lasers
through Poland Spring water bottles. The effect, projected on
opposing walls, is an array of lines in criss-crossing patterns
in hot-blue and green.  The space is being programmed by co-curators Zannah Mass,
formerly the cultural director for  New York ’s Dumbo area, and
Tom Hall, who has worked with film festivals in Nantucket and
Newport.  Mark Epley, the mayor of Southampton, said the toughest
part of the project will be raising money.  Finding Audience  Mara Manus, the former executive director of the  Public
Theater , said the focus at present is developing an audience
before making major investments.  “How many cultural buildings throughout the U.S. are empty
right now because they spent the money before building an
audience,” Manus said.  The aim is to be year-round and to appeal to local as well
as weekend and seasonal visitors.  The center’s film slate has new and older fare, movies for
children and documentaries, as well as several coming out of
film festivals before they hit theaters, including “Ain’t Them
Bodies Saints,” “Prince Avalanche,” and “Short Term 12,”
whose star, Brie Larson, will attend the Aug. 17 screening.  Tomorrow at 11 a.m. Lea Carpenter talks about her book
“Eleven Days.” Afterward Lise Evans, wife of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s J.  Michael Evans , fellow education philanthropist
Simone Levinson, and Carpenter’s sister-in-law Ashley Brokaw
will host a private lunch for the first-time author at Tutto Il
Giorno. For a calendar of events see www.southamptoncenter.org.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Daniel Akst on  books ,  Martin
Gayford  on art.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  