-- Man. United Wants Fabregas, Fellaini in Midfield: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-16T09:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/man-united-wants-fabregas-fellaini-in-midfield-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Moyes’s New Midfield?  Manchester United manager  David Moyes  offered Barcelona 30
million euros ($39.2 million) for Cesc Fabregas and may try to
pair him with Everton’s Marouane Fellaini in the Red Devils’
midfield next season, the  Guardian reported .  A deal for Fabregas hinges on whether the Spanish champions
are willing to sell the former Arsenal captain, while Moyes has
retained an interest in Fellaini, whom he brought to Everton in
2008 from Standard Liege, the newspaper added.  Jovetic Fee Agreed  Manchester City  is on the verge of of signing Fiorentina
striker Stevan Jovetic for as much as 28 million pounds ($42
million), the  Daily Mail reported .  The two clubs are said to have agreed on an initial fee of
23 million pounds that could rise by 5 million pounds in bonus
payments, the newspaper said.  City’s attempts to sign Alvaro Negredo from Sevilla have
stalled because it’s been unable to reach a compromise with the
Spanish club on the player’s valuation, the Mail added.  Braced for Bid  Liverpool is bracing itself for Real Madrid to make a
formal bid for  Luis Suarez , the  Daily Mirror reported .  Real is ready to put up Argentine striker Gonzalo Higuain
plus about 10 million pounds for Suarez, an offer Liverpool will
reject as it will only sell if he submits a transfer request and
an interested club offers 40 million pounds in cash, the
newspaper added.  Reluctant Returnee  Christian Benteke is eager for Tottenham Hotspur to speed
up its pursuit of him because he doesn’t want to go back to
 Aston Villa , the  Daily Mirror reported .  Benteke, who has put in a transfer request, is hopeful the
two clubs can agree on a fee to avoid him having to return to
the Midlands this week, the newspaper said. Spurs are set to
make an opening bid of 20 million pounds, five million pounds
below Villa’s valuation, the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  