-- Angola’s Catoca Diamond Complex to Add Mill as Miners Dig Deeper
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-07-16T05:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/angola-s-catoca-diamond-complex-to-add-mill-as-miners-dig-deeper.html
Sociedade Mineira de Catoca Lda. ,
the operator of  Angola ’s largest diamond mine, plans to expand
processing capacity to maintain output as the pit deepens.  Catoca will add a mill to the five already running at the
site, according to an executive who asked not to be identified,
citing company policy. The expansion will allow the mine to keep
the same rate of production for three decades, he said, without
specifying when the new facility will be built.  The company needs to increase processing capacity as miners
dig deeper, extracting denser ore that requires more time for
crushing, sifting and washing. Diamond producers are investing
in output on the expectation that rising demand for jewelry in
 China  and  India  will drive up prices of the precious stones.  Catoca’s mine produced 6.5 million carats last year from 10
million metric tons of ore, generating revenue of $575 million
before costs, the executive said at the site on July 11. The
open-pit mine near Saurimo, 840 kilometers (520 miles) east of
Luanda, is built around a geological structure that was formed
deep underground and pushed up by an ancient volcano.  Angola’s production of diamonds, its biggest mineral
export, may rise to about 9 million carats this year from 8.3
million in 2012 as the southwest African country starts four new
mines and resumes work at three others, Geology and Mines
Minister Francisco Queiroz said in March. Catoca accounted for
about 70 percent of the country’s output last year.  Deeper Reserves  The Catoca reserves, currently drilled to about 200 meters
(660 feet), will extend to at least 600 meters deep, the
executive said. While deposits as deep as 800 meters have been
found, their recovery would require underground mining, for
which the company must conduct feasibility studies, he said.  Sociedade Mineira de Catoca is owned by Angola’s state-owned diamond company Endiama EP, which holds a 32.8 percent
stake. OAO Alrosa of  Russia  also has 32.8 percent, a venture
between China and state oil producer Sonangol EP owns 18 percent
and Odebrecht SA of  Brazil  has 16.4 percent.  Angola is the world’s fourth-largest diamond producer by
value, after Botswana, Russia and  Canada . The country’s output
of the gems was valued at $1.1 billion last year, according to
the  Kimberley Process , an international group that works to stop
the supply of so-called  blood diamonds  from war-zones. Angola’s
27-year civil war ended in 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  