-- APA Makes A$1.3 Billion Bid for Envestra to Add Gas Networks
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-07-16T06:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/apa-offers-a-1-3-billion-for-rest-of-envestra-to-add-pipelines.html
APA Group, whose pipelines deliver
more than half of  Australia ’s natural gas, offered to buy the
rest of  Envestra Ltd. (ENV)  for about A$1.3 billion ($1.2 billion) to
gain one of the country’s largest gas distribution companies.  APA offered the equivalent of A$1.10 for each Envestra
share, the Sydney-based company said today in a statement, 3.8
percent more than the close yesterday. APA already owns 33
percent of Envestra and operates the company’s gas distribution
networks and pipelines, according to the statement.  APA, which has a pipeline network spanning more than 14,000
kilometers (8,700 miles), would add a company with 1.2 million
gas consumers in South Australia, Victoria, Queensland and New
South Wales states. Envestra, partly-owned by  Li Ka-Shing ,
Asia’s richest man, owns 1,120 kilometers of gas pipelines and
22,500 kilometers of gas distribution networks.  “Existing shareholders may seek to extract a higher
takeover premium, as well as a cash component to the offer
price,” Nathan Lead, a Brisbane-based analyst at RBS Morgans
Ltd., said in a note today. “However given APA’s existing stake
in Envestra is 33 percent, at this stage it is difficult to
believe that a competing proposal will emerge.”  Shares of Envestra  rose 6.1 percent to A$1.125, the highest
in almost six years, at the close in Sydney. APA fell 2.4
percent to A$6.23.  Non-Binding Offer  The bid, which isn’t binding, values Adelaide-based
Envestra at about A$1.98 billion and would create a combined
company with a market value of about A$6.6 billion, APA said.
The offer follows APA’s acquisition last year of infrastructure
company Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund.  Envestra hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as an adviser and
will form an independent committee to consider the proposal, the
company said today in a separate statement. Rothschild is
advising APA.  Shareholders of Envestra would receive 0.1678 new APA
shares for each share they own and would be entitled to any
final Envestra dividend for the 2013 fiscal year of as much as 3
cents a share, according to the statement.  Envestra’s second-largest shareholder is Li Ka-Shing’s
 Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (1038) ,  which has a 17 percent
stake , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bid is “fair and reasonable,” APA Managing Director
Mick McCormack said today on a call with analysts. “We would
hope CKI sees the value that’s inherent in this proposal.”  A message left with the corporate affairs department at
Cheung Kong Infrastructure in Hong Kong wasn’t returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  