-- Apollo to Sell Rest of Realogy Shares as Housing Rebounds
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-07-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/apollo-to-sell-rest-of-realogy-shares-as-housing-rebounds.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  is
selling its remaining shares in  Realogy Holdings Corp (RLGY) , exiting
its investment in the residential brokerage company as
homebuying demand spurs the biggest jump in values since 2006.  Apollo and its affiliated funds agreed to sell about 25
million shares of Realogy common stock in a secondary public
offering, Parsippany, New Jersey-based Realogy said in a
statement yesterday.  Apollo, the New York-based private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , acquired Realogy for $6.8 billion in 2007, close to the
real estate market’s peak. The company, owner of the Century 21
and Coldwell Banker brands, climbed 83 percent since its October
initial public offering, closing yesterday at $49.29.  The housing market is recovering as buyers seeking to take
advantage of historically low  mortgage rates  compete for a tight
 supply  of listings, driving up values. U.S. home prices rose
12.2 percent in May from a year earlier, the largest increase
since February 2006, according to Irvine, California-based
CoreLogic Inc.  In a separate statement, Realogy said net revenue increased
as much as 18 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier
to as much as $1.54 billion, according to preliminary results.
Home-sale transactions rose 21 percent, compared with the
company’s May projection that they’d climb 14 percent to 17
percent.  “The increased volume is attributed to demand outstripping
supply, moderately improved inventory levels and continued
historically high affordability levels despite a rising
mortgage-rate environment,” Richard A. Smith, Realogy’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage rose last
week to a two-year high of 4.51 percent, according to McLean,
Virginia-based  Freddie Mac . The rate, which climbed from a near-record low of 3.35 percent in early May, is still below the
average of about 5.3 percent for the past 10 years, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  