-- Apple Said Developing Ad-Skipping as Part of TV Strategy
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-07-17T22:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/apple-said-developing-ad-skipping-as-part-of-tv-strategy.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is developing ad-skipping
technology that would let owners of its Apple TV set-top box and
future television devices watch shows without commercials,
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Apple executives have briefed at least two owners of
broadcast TV networks and cable channels, as well as some of the
biggest U.S. pay-TV systems, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the talks are private. One proposal is for
Apple to reimburse programmers for skipped ads, they said.  The company is seeking to develop TV products with broader
appeal than Apple TV, a set-top device purchased by 13 million
consumers, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said in May at the
D: All Things Digital conference. Apple TV is more appropriate
for “hobbyists” than mainstream viewers, he said. Apple
continues to work on a “grand vision” to update TV-viewing
that remains “much like 10 or 20 years ago,” Cook said.  Jessica Lessin, a technology writer,  reported  on July 15
that Apple was working on the ad-skipping initiative.  With advertising accounting for the largest share of their
revenue, commercially supported TV networks have resisted
skipping technology.  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  introduced ad-skipping for broadcast
network TV shows with its Hopper TV set-top box in March 2012.
21st Century Fox Inc.,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal and  CBS
Corp. (CBS)  sued, claiming the service will destroy free, over-the-air
prime-time TV. Dish sued the networks in  New York , seeking a
court ruling that it isn’t infringing copyrights.  DVR Popularity  Almost three-quarters of consumers in a survey cited the
ability to skip commercials as a main reason to use a digital
video recorder, Google Inc.’s Motorola Mobility unit said in its
annual media engagement barometer released on March 19.  Apple has also been working to license more content for
people to watch via Apple TV. In June, it announced deals to
offer apps from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
ESPN to customers who already receive those channels from cable
or satellite pay TV services.  The maker of iPhones and iPods is also reaching out to
cable services, which buy content from media companies such as
Disney. It is nearing a deal with  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  that
would let subscribers of that cable system watch channels on
Apple TV, people have told Bloomberg. The companies plan to
announce an agreement within the next few months, those people
said earlier.  Web Viewing  While Apple pitched an ad-skipping feature to Time Warner
Cable, the New York-based cable operator isn’t interested in the
idea, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Accessing content from the Internet on a TV has become
common since Apple introduced Apple TV in 2007. According to
Leichtman Research Group, 44 percent of U.S. households have a
TV set connected to the Internet through a video-game console,
Blu-ray player or streaming devices such as Roku Inc. and Apple
TV. That’s up from 38 percent a year ago, the researcher said.  More competition is coming.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s
largest chipmaker, plans to begin selling a set-top box with
Web-based pay-TV service by the end of the year.  Google has also held discussions with media companies about
licensing content for an Internet TV service, people with
knowledge of the matter said yesterday. The news was reported
earlier by Dow Jones.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, was little changed
at $430.31 at the close in New York. The stock has fallen 19
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  