-- Aussie Dollar Rises on RBA Minutes Before Bernanke Testimony
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-07-16T07:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/aussie-halts-gain-before-rba-minutes-kiwi-slips-on-inflation.html
The Australian dollar rose against
its 16 most-traded peers after policy makers said in minutes of
this month’s meeting that the inflation outlook is being
affected by recent currency declines.  The Aussie and  New Zealand dollar  climbed for a second day
as investors pared bets on gains in the U.S. currency before
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testifies to Congress
this week. The kiwi’s advance was limited after the statistics
bureau said  consumer price increases  in the second quarter
slowed more than economists had estimated.  “There were some marginal shifts in the RBA’s language
acknowledging the potential impact of the the currency’s decline
on its inflation outlook,” said  Robert Rennie , the chief
foreign-exchange strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney.
“There’s an argument to suggest we’ve gotten far too bearish on
the Aussie. If you’re sitting short Aussie off the lows you’re
probably feeling a bit nervous and that’s really why we’re
seeing a bounce.” A short position is a bet a currency will
decline in value.  The Australian currency rose 0.9 percent to 91.82 U.S.
cents as of 4:56 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday after falling as
low as 89.99 cents July 12, the least since September 2010. It
gained 0.5 percent to 91.34 yen.  New Zealand ’s dollar gained 0.3
percent to 78.29 U.S. cents and advanced 0.3 percent to 78.22
yen.  “The inflation outlook, although slightly higher because
of the exchange rate depreciation, could still provide some
scope for further easing, should that be required to support
demand,” the RBA said in the minutes released today. In a
record of its June meeting, it had said the inflation outlook
“might provide some scope” for more rate reductions.  Swaps Trading  Traders are pricing in a 54 percent chance the RBA will
lower borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to a fresh
record 2.5 percent next month, according to  interest-rate swaps 
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from a 65 percent chance
yesterday.  The Aussie dollar has dropped 9.1 percent over the past
three months, the worst performance among 10 developed nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.
The kiwi has fallen 4.7 percent.  “People were probably positioned a little short going into
the minutes expecting a bit more dovishness,” said Peter Dragicevich, a Sydney-based currency economist at  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia. (CBA)  The minutes showed “even though the fall in
the currency is likely to see inflation pick up slightly it’s
still within the range where they could provide stimulus.”  Bernanke Testimony  In the U.S., the Fed’s chairman delivers his semi-annual
monetary-policy testimony on July 17-18. Bernanke said last
month the central bank may begin to slow its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases this year and end them in 2014 if
economic growth meets policy makers’ goals. He said on July 10
that the U.S. needs “highly accommodative monetary policy for
the foreseeable future.”  New Zealand’s  consumer prices  rose 0.2 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months, the nation’s
statistics bureau said today. That’s less than the 0.3 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Prices
gained 0.7 percent from a year earlier, the slowest since 1999
and less than the 0.8 percent estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  