-- Aviva Looks for Red Flags as $112 Billion Matures: China Credit
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-07-17T04:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/aviva-looks-for-red-flags-as-112-billion-matures-china-credit.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s largest
insurer by assets, is looking out for default red flags as
China’s crackdown on shadow banking collides with the heaviest
debt repayment schedule in more than two years this month.  Borrowers from the world’s second-largest economy have the
equivalent of $112 billion of all types of bonds maturing this
month, the most since April 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Chinese companies account for eight of the 10
financially weakest issuers of U.S. dollar-denominated notes in
Asia outside  Japan , according to a Standard Chartered Plc report
on profitability, leverage and capital structure dated July 5.  “It’s important to look at your portfolio and decide
whether the corporates in which you hold positions have any
financing vulnerabilities,” said Tim Jagger, a Singapore-based
fixed-income portfolio manager at Aviva Investors Asia Pte, a
unit of Aviva. “If they are highly dependent on bank debt or
trust financing, which is obviously an area that is receiving
the authorities’ attention, that’s an obvious red flag.”  Shipbuilder  China  Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings
Ltd. is seeking financial help from the government, three months
after Suntech Power Holdings Co. defaulted on dollar bonds.
Slowing economic growth and government efforts to curb risky
lending are exacerbating refinancing difficulties amid soaring
bond yields. Average dollar debt costs have  advanced  66 basis
points to 6.18 percent since the end of May, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  Debt Due  An additional $110 billion of notes sold by Chinese
borrowers are due by the end of August, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Some 77 percent of bonds maturing this month and
99 percent of notes maturing next month remain outstanding, the
data show. The nation’s corporates are the second-most indebted
in the region, after Hong Kong, according to Standard
Chartered’s report on debt as a percentage of gross domestic
product.  China’s industrial companies have suffered a worse
deterioration in credit quality since 2007 than state-owned
enterprises or high-yield developers, the report shows. Bonds
sold by Hidili Industry International Development Ltd., a
Sichuan-based coal miner that Standard Chartered included among
the 10 weakest dollar-bond issuers in Asia, were quoted at 73.3
cents on the dollar yesterday in Hong Kong, down from 87.3 cents
in January, Bloomberg prices show.  “Sectors such as coke and coal mining and steel
manufacturing are blighted by huge overcapacity,” said Jagger
of Aviva Investors, which managed the equivalent of almost $413
billion as of Dec. 31. “It’s hard to see how the fundamentals
of those sectors will improve any time soon.”  Li’s Reforms  China’s State Council, led by Premier Li Keqiang, wants
money allocated to transform the structure of the economy to
focus more on domestic consumption, according to a statement on
its website on July 3. Money-market rates leapt to the highest
level in June since at least 2003, as Li tried to rein in so-called shadow lending.  The cash crunch has added to concerns that some companies
may be unable to pay off debts as growth cools. China’s
benchmark seven-day repurchase rate reached 12.4 percent on June
20, the highest level since May 2006. Chinese benchmark 10-year
 bonds  pay 3.62 percent as of yesterday, 18 basis points more
than at the end of May, according to Chinabond indexes.  The economy  expanded  7.5 percent last quarter, the slowest
in three periods and the longest streak of expansion below 8
percent in at least two decades, as industrial production
matched the weakest pace since the 2009 global recession.  Non-Payment Concerns  “The new government is pretty determined in giving up some
quantity in terms of the growth rate in order to achieve more
quality of sustainable growth,” said Wai Hoong Leong, a
Singapore-based portfolio manager at Nikko Asset Management Co.
“This restructuring process will probably take time and, if
that’s the case, we expect volatility in the Chinese asset
market to persist.”  Onshore corporate bankruptcies may be a feature of the
short-term pain needed to make structural reforms to the
economy, Leong said, adding that a big default in the U.S.
dollar-denominated debt market is not likely.  As Li acts on pledges to cut the role of the state in the
economy, fiscal spending rose 3 percent last month from a year
earlier, down from a 12 percent pace in May, a Finance Ministry
report showed this week. The nation is still dealing with the
fallout from 17.6 trillion  yuan  ($2.87 trillion) of stimulus
that was plowed into the economy between 2009 and 2010 to
insulate it from the global financial crisis.  Spreading Risks  The cost of  insuring  Chinese sovereign debt against non-payment jumped to a 17-month high of 147 basis points last
month, before moderating to 104.5 basis points as of yesterday,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. The yuan advanced 0.05 percent to 6.1350 in  Shanghai 
yesterday, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The currency was trading at 6.1317 yuan per dollar as of 11:47
a.m.  The cost of 10-year  debt  for top-rated companies onshore
has meanwhile climbed 15 basis points to 5.19 percent since the
end of May, the indexes show.  More than 95 percent of bonds due to be repaid this month
are denominated in yuan, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Signs of financial stress onshore will weigh on
international bond prices, according to Bharat Shettigar, a
senior credit analyst at Standard Chartered.  “If there is a fear of defaults -- even if they’re in the
local-currency space -- or if bank non-performing loans start
rising, it would be negative for Chinese credits in the dollar
space,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  