-- Aviva in Talks With Regulator Ahead of Hearing on Apollo Deal
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-07-16T14:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/aviva-in-talks-with-regulator-ahead-of-hearing-on-apollo-deal.html
Aviva Plc’s New York insurance unit
is in talks with state regulators who are pushing for stronger
reserves tied to its planned sale to  Leon Black ’s  Apollo Global
Management LLC. (APO)   The New York Department of Financial Services is also
seeking advance approval of changes in investment strategy or
payments from the unit to the parent, said a person familiar
with the talks. The $1.8 billion deal also involves an Iowa unit
and faces a  hearing  with that state’s insurance regulator
tomorrow. New York contacted Iowa counterparts, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because talks are private.  DFS Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky  is investigating deals
by investment firms such as Apollo to acquire insurers, saying
they may make financial wagers that put policyholders at risk.
Any conditions reached in the deal might set a standard for
approval in future transactions, the person said. The probe
already delayed the purchase of  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) ’s U.S.
annuity operation by a firm tied to Guggenheim Partners LLC.  “The risk that we’re concerned about at DFS is whether
these private equity-firms are more short-term focused, when
this is a business that’s all about the long haul,” Lawsky said
in an April 18  speech . “Their short-term focus may result in an
incentive to increase  investment risk  and leverage.”  Representatives from New York-based Apollo and its Athene
insurance unit declined to comment on the talks, which were
disclosed in a document tied to the hearing in  Des Moines . The
push from New York’s regulator was reported yesterday by the
Wall Street Journal. A spokeswoman for London-based Aviva said
the company still expects the deal to be completed this year.  “We’re aware of their conversations,” said Tom Alger, a
spokesman for Iowa’s insurance regulator. “What’s happening in
New York, for that unit, is not part of our considerations here
for tomorrow.”  Apollo seeks to gain funds to invest through the
acquisition of Aviva’s U.S. annuity business, which collects
payments from clients who are guaranteed future income under the
contracts. The private equity company has struck a deal to sell
the Aviva business that provides  life insurance .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  