-- Baidu Pays $1.9 Billion in Biggest Takeover to Gain Mobile Share
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-07-16T10:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/baidu-to-buy-91-wireless-for-1-9-billion-to-add-app-store.html
Baidu Inc., owner of  China ’s largest
search engine, agreed to buy app store 91 Wireless for $1.9
billion in its biggest announced acquisition to gain a greater
share of the mobile user market.  The company will acquire the majority stake owned by
 NetDragon Websoft Inc. (777)  and all other shares, Baidu said in a
 statement  today. Investors in 91 Wireless on March 27 included
companies controlled by PCCW Ltd. Chairman  Richard Li  and
Temasek Holdings Pte, a separate filing showed.  The deal gives Baidu control over China’s most popular
third-party  store  for smartphone apps as it tries to navigate
the shift from desktop computing, where it has 82 percent of the
nation’s searches, to mobile devices. Baidu’s mobile app had 9
percent of China’s wireless customers as of April, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. leader Google Inc., facing a
similar challenge, backed the Android operating system and
started its own store to gain share against Apple Inc.  “Baidu is not as well established in the mobile Internet
space as the desktop Internet space,” said Andy Yeung, an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co Inc in  New York . “It’s a
complementary strategy to enhance Baidu’s status in the mobile
ecosystem.”  Baidu didn’t disclose earnings multiples of the business in
its statement.  Billy Leung, an analyst at RHB Research Institute Sdn in
 Hong Kong , said the purchase price implies a multiple of 63
times earnings for 91 Wireless based on his estimate that the
business would post net income of $30 million in 2013.  NetDragon Slumps  The app store was valued at $115 million in 2012, Joe Wu,
chief financial officer for NetDragon said in August of last
year during a conference call.  NetDragon shares  slumped  by a record on the agreement,
which ends plans for the Hong Kong-based company to spin off 91
Wireless. The stock dropped 21 percent to HK$19.04 at the close
in Hong Kong.  “People were originally expecting a spin off,” said RHB’s
Leung. “After the sell off, NetDragon won’t be holding the
business any more, so technically NetDragon won’t be profiting
from any growth from the company.”  Shares (BIDU)  of Baidu rose 4.9 percent to $101.59 in U.S. trading
yesterday, before the announcement was made.  Baidu is led by billionaire Robin Li who has a net worth of
$7.5 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Competition is intensifying in China for mobile users, with
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., the nation’s largest e-commerce
company, buying a stake in Sina Corp.’s Twitter-like Weibo
service in April.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , owner of China’s third-biggest
Web portal, and software company  Qihoo 360 Technology (QIHU)  Co. also
have apps for mobile searches.  Multiple Stores  Beijing-based Baidu will pay $1.09 billion for NetDragon’s
57.41 percent stake in 91 Wireless and acquire the remaining
stock on the same terms, according to a filing with the Hong
Kong stock exchange today.  It’s the biggest acquisition announced by Baidu, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 91 Wireless business is the largest third-party
distributor in China by active users,  according  to NetDragon,
which cited iResearch data. It distributes apps for Apple
iPhones and iPads as well as devices using Google’s Android
system.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s biggest personal computer
maker, has logged more than 1 billion downloads through its app
store since it opened in 2010.  “Mobile app stores are an important entry point to the
mobile Internet, and are therefore of great strategic interest
to Baidu,” Kaiser Kuo, a spokesman for Baidu in Beijing, said
in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  