-- Baidu Climbs on Mobile-Market Outlook as Qihoo Tumbles
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-07-16T20:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/baidu-climbs-on-mobile-outlook-as-qihoo-tumbles-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks climbed in New York,
sending the benchmark index to a five-week high, as  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) 
rose on prospects a $1.9 billion acquisition will give it a
greater share of the nation’s mobile market.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. gained 0.5 percent to 88.77
yesterday, the strongest level since June 10. Baidu, owner of
 China ’s biggest online search engine, rose to a five-month high
while smaller rival Qihoo 360 Technology Co. retreated the most
in three weeks.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  surged to a record as
volume quadrupled, while Xinyuan Real Estate Co. jumped the most
in four months after announcing a $60 million share buyback.  Baidu said yesterday that it agreed to buy 91 Wireless,
taking control of China’s most popular third-party store for
smartphone applications as it seeks to shift services from
desktop computers to mobile devices. SouFun, China’s largest
real estate information website, posted the biggest two-day
rally since its U.S. listing in 2010 while property developer
Xinyuan also rallied for a second day.  “This acquisition allows Baidu to build an app download
gateway and it does appear it is working to build a robust
mobile presence,” Erik Lam, director of Asian equity sales at
Auerbach Grayson & Co. in  New York , said by e-mail. “This move
helps Baidu strengthen its competitive position versus other
mobile platforms.”  The iShares China large-Cap ETF, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., gained 0.2 percent to $33.62
in a second day of advances. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
slid 0.4 percent after an eight-day rally, as Coca-Cola Co.’s
profit dropped and a Federal Reserve official called for cuts to
the stimulus.  Closing the Gap  Baidu’s American depositary receipts advanced 4 percent to
$105.69, the highest since February. They jumped as much as 6.4
percent in New York trading yesterday.  The company signed a memorandum of understanding with
relevant parties to purchase a majority stake in 91 Wireless
Websoft Ltd. from  NetDragon Websoft Inc. (777)  and all other shares
from existing shareholders, it said in a statement.  Jefferies Group LLC lifted its target price for Baidu’s
ADRs by 26 percent to $115 in a note dated yesterday,
reiterating a hold recommendation.  “Baidu is enhancing its mobile positioning by effectively
closing the gap with competition,” Jefferies analysts led by
Cynthia Meng wrote in the note. “Acquiring the No. 2 player in
app distribution also helps to strengthen Baidu’s
competitiveness with Qihoo’s Mobile Assistant, the No. 1
player.”  Qihoo Sinks  91 Wireless operates two app distribution platforms in
China and had a 15.6 percent market share in time spent in May,
compared with a share of 27.4 percent for  Qihoo (QIHU) ’s app store,
according to the Jefferies report, which cited data from
Internet consulting group iResearch.  ADRs of Qihoo, which owns the most-used web browser and the
second most-used search engine in China, retreated 4.5 percent
from a record high to $52.81.  SouFun, based in Beijing, soared 19 percent to $32.93
yesterday, the highest level since it started trading in the
U.S. in September 2010. Volume was more than quadruple the daily
average over the past three months, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed. The gain yesterday brought its rally in the past two
days to 28 percent.  China’s statistics bureau is scheduled to release data on
property prices in the nation’s 70 major cities today. The value
of homes sold climbed 24 percent in June, the biggest monthly
gain this year, government figures reported July 15 showed.  Additional Buyback  Xinyuan, also based in Beijing, rallied 8.9 percent to
$4.76, the steepest gain since February. Its ADRs have surged 15
percent in the past two days.  The company’s board approved a plan to repurchase as much
as $60 million worth of shares through 2015, after buying back
$12.6 million of the stock under a program that started in June
2012.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , a Changzhou, China-based solar
manufacturer, dropped 4.5 percent to $7.39, sliding the most in
a week. Its ADRs soared 13 percent the previous day to a 14-month high amid a rally in solar stocks after China’s cabinet
pledged support for the industry.  Raymond James & Associates Inc. cut Trina’s ADRs to the
equivalent of sell from hold in a note yesterday, citing
“irrational bullishness” in Chinese solar stocks. Analyst
Pavel Molchanov wrote he doesn’t expect “sufficient margin
improvement for Trina to turn sustainably profitable anytime
soon.”  YY Inc. (YY) , a Guangzhou-based entertainment website operator,
sank 7.3 percent from a record high to $34.62 in New York,
ending a three-day advance.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in  Hong Kong  sank 0.3
percent to a three-day low of 9,419.51, while the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.3 percent to 2,065.72 in a second day
of gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  