-- Bally Technologies Agrees to Buy SHFL for $1.3 Billion
-- B y   C e c i l e   D a u r a t   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-07-16T20:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/bally-technologies-agrees-to-buy-shfl-for-1-3-billion.html
Bally Technologies Inc. (BYI)  agreed to
buy SHFL Entertainment Inc. for about $1.3 billion in a deal
that combines two complementary gaming-technology companies.  The offer of $23.25 a share is 24 percent higher than
SHFL’s closing price yesterday, before the deal was announced.
The transaction was unanimously approved by both boards, the Las
Vegas-based companies said today in a statement.  Bally, which makes  slot machines  and lottery systems, will
get access to key markets including  Australia  and strengthen its
offering in  Asia . Adding SHFL, a leader in products for table
games such as blackjack and poker, will let Bally provide
customers with gambling devices for the entire casino floor.  “This strategic combination will immediately create one of
the world’s largest end-to-end gaming technology innovators,”
Bally Chief Executive Officer Ramesh Srinivasan said today on a
conference call.  The deal marks a further consolidation in the slot-machine
industry as the market recovers from a global economic slump
that led casinos to defer purchases of new products. In January,
Scientific Games Corp. agreed to buy WMS Industries Inc. for
$1.5 billion, the biggest deal in leisure and recreational
products in almost two years.  Bally is paying about 16 times  SHFL (SHFL) ’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, based on the
equity value, compared with a median of 8.7 times for similar
deals compiled by Bloomberg. About 16 percent of Bally revenue
comes from outside the U.S., compared with 53 percent for SHFL,
the companies said in the call today.  Earnings Growth  SHFL, which had gained 23 percent in the past year through
yesterday, advanced 22 percent to $22.81 at the close in  New
York . Bally, which had jumped 29 percent, increased 6.9 percent
to $65.13.  Bally  returned  to earnings growth in 2012 after two years
of declines. The company today  forecast  fiscal 2014 earnings
will rise to $3.70 to $4.05 a share, excluding the impact of the
acquisition. Analysts anticipated $3.84, the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We like the deal,”  David Bain , an analyst with Sterne
Agee & Leach Inc., said in a research note today, citing the
company’s projected financing costs, as well as savings from
combining marketing and regulatory functions. He estimated the
deal would add 30 to 40 cents a share to Bally earnings in
fiscal 2015 and recommends buying the stock.  Committed Financing  SHFL, formerly known as Shuffle Master Inc., had debt of $8
million and cash of $41 million as of April 30, the companies
said. Bally had debt of $467.5 million as of March 31.  Based on trailing 12-month periods ended March 31 for Bally
and April 30 for SHFL, the combined business generated
approximately $1.3 billion in revenue and adjusted Ebitda of
$415 million. The companies predict savings of $30 million,
according to the statement.  Bally said it has obtained committed financing to complete
the acquisition, which is expected to close by the second
quarter of next year.  Wells Fargo & Co ., JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Union Bank
NA provided the committed financing.  Bally was advised on the deal by Goldman Sachs and Groton
Partners. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP was the legal adviser.
Macquarie Capital is SHFL’s exclusive financial adviser and
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP provided legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Daurat in Wilmington at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  