-- Bank Dhofar Considers Merger to Create $10 Billion Omani Lender
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-07-16T08:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/bank-dhofar-considers-merger-to-create-10-billion-omani-lender.html
Bank Dhofar SAOG is exploring the
possibility of combining with its smaller competitor Bank Sohar
as it seeks to create the second-biggest Omani lender with about
$10 billion in assets. The banks’ shares climbed.  The board at its meeting yesterday “expressed interest and
resolved to commence discussion with Bank Sohar to explore the
possibility of merger between the two banks,” Bank Dhofar said
in a  statement  posted on Muscat stock exchange, without giving
further details. The proposal is subject to interest of Bank
Sohar, due diligence and regulatory approvals, it said.  The possible merger follows  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s
biggest bank, merging its Omani operations last year with Oman
International Bank SAOG to create a lender with about $6 billion
in assets. HSBC Bank Oman SAOG is currently third-biggest lender
by assets after BankMuscat SAOG, which had $21 billion in assets
at the end of last year, and National Bank of Oman SAOG.  Oman’s government spending plan is boosting demand for
financing and commercial bank lending will rise by 15 percent to
20 percent this year, central bank Governor Hamud Bin Sangur Al-Zadjali said in March. Oman has the second-smallest economy
among the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, which also
includes Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.  Bank Sohar shares surged as much as 3.9 percent to 0.213
rial before trading at 0.207 rial at 12:26 p.m. in Muscat. Bank
Dhofar was unchanged after gaining as much as 2.1 percent.  Bank Dhofar had assets of 2.14 billion rials ($5.56
billion) at the end of last year, while Bank Sohar had 1.79
billion rials, according to their financial statements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  