-- Banorte Sells $2.5 Billion of Stock in Biggest Mexican Offer
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-07-17T15:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/banorte-said-to-price-follow-on-offering-at-71-5-pesos-per-share.html
Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB,
 Mexico ’s third-largest bank, sold about $2.5 billion of shares
in the nation’s biggest equity sale of the year, extending a
record pace of offerings in  Latin America ’s second-biggest
economy.  The company priced 447.4 million shares yesterday in a
follow-on offering at 71.5 pesos a share for a total of 32
billion pesos, David Suarez, head of  investor relations  for the
Mexico City-based bank, said in a telephone interview from  New
York . In dollar terms the amount sold was $2.2 billion plus an
overallotment option for underwriters, Suarez said. The deal was
3.5 times oversubscribed, he said.  Banorte proceeded with its sale as several Mexican
companies have delayed or scaled back equity offerings following
a rout in emerging-market assets in May and June. The benchmark
IPC index of 35 stocks plunged last month to the  lowest level 
since September 2011, and is down 9.3 percent this year. Earlier
this year, Banorte was targeting a sale of as much as $3 billion
based on the  exchange rate  at the time.  The sale “shows the appeal of Banorte to institutional
investors,” Suarez said in a telephone interview from New York.
“It’s very adverse market conditions. Some companies have been
withdrawing their offerings.”  Pricing Discount  Banorte shares gained 6.8 percent today to 76.92 pesos as
of 10:26 a.m. in Mexico City trading, the biggest gain since
August 2011.  Yesterday, as the bank was pricing the sale, the IPC index
tumbled 1.6 percent, the worst performance among 18 major world
equity indexes tracked by Bloomberg and the biggest drop since
June 20.  While the total number of shares Banorte sold was greater
than the bank’s 402.5 million projection in a regulatory filing
prior to the sale, the offering came at a discount to
 yesterday’s close  of 72.21 pesos.  Mexican companies raised at least $5.5 billion this year
through June in initial public offerings and follow-on sales, a
record first half, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banorte has said in filings it plans to use the money to
pay back $800 million borrowed this year to buy a stake in  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ’s pension fund unit, as well as to
finance the planned  acquisition  of a stake in Seguros Banorte
Generali and Pensiones Banorte Generali. An additional $325
million will help pay for the repurchase of a stake in the
lender from International Finance Corp.  Suarez said that 60 percent to 65 percent of the shares
were bought by international investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  