-- Barclays Names JPMorgan’s Morzaria as CFO to Replace Lucas
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-07-16T15:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/barclays-names-jpmorgan-s-morzaria-as-cfo-to-replace-chris-lucas.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-largest bank by assets, hired Tushar Morzaria from  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  to replace Chris Lucas as chief financial officer.  Morzaria, CFO of corporate and  investment banking  at New
York-based JPMorgan, will join Barclays in the autumn before
Lucas retires on Feb. 28, the London-based bank said in a
statement today. JPMorgan said in a memorandum to employees it
will name a successor to Morzaria, 44, in coming days.  “It’s a good choice,” said Chirantan Barua, an analyst at
Bernstein Research in  London  with an outperform rating on
Barclays. His “investment banking background helps because
that’s the one we want to invest in Barclays for, and that’s the
area which comes under risk every time from politicians.”  Antony Jenkins , who took over as chief executive officer in
August, is trying to reduce costs and rebuild regulators’
confidence in the company following the lender’s 290 million-pound ($438 million) fine for rigging benchmark  interest rates .
Lucas, 52, is the last of ex-CEO  Robert Diamond ’s senior
executives to depart. The investment bank generated about half
of the bank’s 2012 revenue, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  stock  slipped 0.5 percent to 308.15 pence in London
trading for a market value of 40 billion pounds. The shares are
up 17 percent this year, making it the second best-performing
U.K. bank stock this year after Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  Annual Salary  Morzaria’s annual salary will be 800,000 pounds and his
annual bonus will be as much as 2 million pounds. His long-term
incentives may be as much as 3.2 million pounds, Barclays said.  Morzaria, a British citizen, joined JPMorgan in 1995 and
held positions including head of valuation controls group
through 2002. After a stint at Credit Suisse Group AG, he re-joined JPMorgan in 2005 as the CFO of the investment bank for
 Europe . He had also been CFO of the investment bank, according
to an internal memo obtained by  Bloomberg News  today.  “He will bring a welcome new perspective to what is a
pivotal role,” Jenkins, 52, said in the statement.  Morzaria “clearly comes from a good stable and knows
investment banking, supporting Jenkins,” the former head of
Barclays’s consumer unit, said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst
at Mediobanca SpA in London who rates Barclays outperform.  Morzaria’s investment banking experience may be especially
useful as U.S. regulators move to compel the subsidiaries of
overseas banks to hold more capital locally, Barua added.  Regulatory Probe  Lucas was one of four past and present employees being
probed by regulators over whether Barclays adequately disclosed
fees paid to the Qatar Investment Authority as part of a 7
billion-pound fundraising during the financial crisis, a move
that helped the lender avoid taking government money.  Lucas, who declined a bonus for last year following the
fine for manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, will
receive his 800,000-pound annual salary until he steps down,
according to Barclays. He will also be eligible for a bonus for
2013.  Diamond, Chairman Marcus Agius and Chief Operating Officer
Jerry Del Missier all stepped down in the wake of the Libor
fine. The bank said in February Lucas and General Counsel Mark Harding would step down. Two months later, investment-banking
chief  Rich Ricci  and wealth-management head Tom Kalaris said
they would also depart.  ‘Cultural Tendency’  An internal report in April criticized pay at the
investment bank and urged the lender to boost transparency.
Former Financial Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner  told
lawmakers last year Barclays “had a cultural tendency to be
always pushing the limit” of what was allowed under the rules.  Jenkins’s appointments include Shaygan Kheradpir as chief
operations and technology officer, responsible for helping the
lender automate more systems to cut costs, and former Financial
Services Authority CEO Hector Sants as head of compliance and
government and regulatory relations. Sants’s job includes Del
Missier’s former responsibility for managing regulatory changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  