-- Barclays, Traders Fined $487.9 Million by U.S. Regulator
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-07-16T22:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/barclays-traders-fined-487-9-million-in-u-s-energy-probe.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  and four of its former
traders must pay a combined $487.9 million in fines and
penalties, the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission said in
a final order stemming from its investigation of alleged
manipulation of energy markets.  The agency directed the company and the traders to pay to
the  U.S. Treasury  within 30 days $453 million in civil
penalties, according to an 86-page order issued today. The
London-based bank must also give up $34.9 million in profits, to
be distributed to programs that help low-income homeowners pay
energy bills in California,  Arizona , Oregon and Washington, it
said.  “If Barclays and the traders do not pay the penalties
assessed by FERC, then FERC may seek affirmation of the
penalties from a federal district court,” the agency said today
in a  statement .  The penalties, which the agency first proposed Oct. 31,
stem from an investigation that is part of the FERC’s crackdown
on market manipulation. Since the beginning of 2011, the agency
has made public at least 13 probes of energy-market gaming,
including investigations of trading units at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “We believe that our trading was legitimate and in
compliance with applicable law,” Barclays spokesman Marc Hazelton said today in a statement. “We intend to vigorously
defend this matter.”  ‘One Sided’  He said the bank believes the penalty is without basis and
that the FERC order is a “one-sided document, and does not
reflect a balanced and full description of the facts or the
applicable legal standard.”  The FERC determined that the Barclays traders manipulated
markets in the Western U.S. from November 2006 and December
2008, by taking losses in power markets in order to boost
financial positions.  “FERC finds that their actions demonstrate an affirmative,
coordinated and intentional effort to carry out a manipulative
scheme,” violating U.S. law and FERC rules, according to the
agency’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  