-- Baseball Union Predicts No Clinic Drug Bans This Season, AP Says
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-16T20:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/baseball-union-predicts-no-drug-bans-this-mlb-season-ap-reports.html
Any suspensions of Major League
Baseball players from a drug investigation tied to a Florida
anti-aging clinic probably won’t be served this season, union
head  Michael Weiner  said, according to the  Associated Press .  Speaking in New York prior to tonight’s All-Star Game at
Citi Field, Weiner said players opting to challenge penalties
before arbitrator Frederic Horowitz wouldn’t be heard until
September, AP said.  Weiner said he expects MLB to notify the union of its plans
for penalties in the next month, and that the union will ask for
any discipline to be kept private until after Horowitz upholds a
ban, AP reported.  Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  declined today to say when
penalties might be handed down.  “You’ll know when I’m going to do it,” Selig said on
ESPN’s “Mike & Mike” program. “We’re under a very thorough
investigation right now, and I want to be very, very careful.
We’ll do it when the investigation is complete and they bring
everything to me.”  The Miami New Times reported in January that it obtained
medical records from the Biogenesis anti-aging clinic, a now-closed business in  Coral Gables , Florida, linking banned
substances to players including the New York Yankees’  Alex Rodriguez  and two-time All-Star Nelson Cruz of the  Texas
Rangers .  Baseball Probe  Baseball responded to the New Times report with its own
investigation, which obtained Biogenesis records listing about
20 players, and last month struck an agreement to secure the
cooperation of clinic owner Anthony Bosch, according to ESPN.  Baseball also sued Bosch and Biogenesis for allegedly
helping players obtain banned drugs and damaging the sport’s
reputation by inducing players to violate contractual
obligations. In exchange for Bosch’s cooperation, ESPN reported
last month, MLB said it would drop the lawsuit and report his
help to law-enforcement agencies that might be considering
charges against the former clinic operator.  Weiner spoke to the writers from a wheelchair and said his
symptoms related to an inoperable brain tumor have worsened in
the last month, AP said. He was diagnosed with the tumor in
August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  