-- Batista Vessel Backing OSX Bonds Departs to Rio From Singapore
-- B y   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a
-- 2013-07-16T12:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/batista-vessel-backing-osx-bonds-departs-to-rio-from-singapore.html
Eike Batista ’s OSX-3 offshore oil-processing vessel, collateral for his shipping unit’s bonds,
departed from  Singapore  and is heading to Rio de Janeiro.  The ship anchored in the Singapore Strait until yesterday
is now west of the Asian nation where it was built, according to
ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg from IHS Fairplay, a
Redhill, England-based maritime research company.  The vessel built by Tokyo-based  Modec Inc. (6269)  is helping  OSX
Brasil SA (OSXB3) ’s $500 million of 2015 notes weather a selloff of debt
and shares from Batista’s crumbling resources empire as it
guarantees creditors’ payback. The ship remains one of Batista’s
most valuable assets after failure to deliver on output targets
and projects sparked a rout of his energy, materials and cargo
companies that wiped out $30 billion of his wealth.  The bonds backed by the ship are down 19.5 cents this year
to 84.02 cents on the dollar and have lost investors about 2
percent, including reinvested interest, since their March 2012
issuance. That compares with a loss of more than 70 cents for
distressed notes from Batista’s OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA in the same span, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The OSX-3 floating production, storage and offloading
platform, or FPSO, built by Modec was valued at $800 million,
according to a March 2012 prospectus for the bonds that offer
the ship as collateral.  Oil explorer OGX ordered the platform for its Tubarao
Martelo field, where  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd agreed to
 buy  a 40 percent stake in May for $850 million.  Modec said last month that the vessel would leave Singapore
“around the end of June” to arrive in Rio by year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Caminada in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  