-- Better West Nile Surveillance May Help Reduce Infections
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-07-16T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/better-west-nile-surveillance-may-help-reduce-infections.html
Monitoring mosquito traps regularly
and determining quickly how many of the blood-sucking pests are
infected with the West Nile virus may enable health departments
to act faster in eradicating the bugs and reducing human
infections, a study found.  An analysis of the 2012 West Nile outbreak in  Dallas 
County, Texas, the largest in a U.S. metro area last year in
which 19 people died, showed the virus tends to be more
prevalent after a warmer-than-normal winter and if it appears
early in the summer, according to research in the  Journal of the
American Medical Association .  The West Nile virus first surfaced in the U.S. in  New York
City  in 1999. After spreading nationwide, the number of cases of
the mosquito-borne illness declined for five years. There was a
resurgence of the disease last year, particularly in Dallas
County, Texas, which had the most cases of virus infections in
the U.S., the authors wrote. Today’s findings show the virus
isn’t disappearing from the U.S. and more steps are needed to
prevent infections, which can lead to death, said Stephen
Ostroff, who wrote an accompanying editorial in the journal.  “The resources are being withdrawn because the last
several seasons there was not a lot of human illness that
occurred in the U.S.,” Ostroff, former director of epidemiology
at the Pennsylvania Department of Health in Harrisburg and
deputy director of the National Center for  Infectious Diseases 
at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, now
retired, said in a July 15 telephone interview. “It very
rapidly receded from the memories.”  Better Planning  Ostroff said resources are needed to track the virus before
humans are infected and health officials must have steps in
place to deal with the virus once it’s detected.  “As was so well illustrated with the episode last year in
Dallas, West Nile is still with us from one coast to the
other,” he said. “We certainly can anticipate that we will
have additional seasons like the one that occurred in 2012. I
don’t think it’s good public health to be as unprepared as we
were in 1999 when it showed up in the first place.”  Researchers in the study analyzed the data available from
the 2012  West Nile virus  outbreak in Dallas County. From May 30
to Dec. 3, 173 patients were diagnosed with West Nile
encephalitis, a brain infection, and 225 with West Nile fever.
Nineteen people died.  They found that calculating the mosquito vector index,
which looks at how numerous the bugs are and how many of those
are infected with the West Nile virus, gives officials a
quicker, up-to-date picture of a possible epidemic. Several
weeks can pass from the time a person is bitten, shows up at the
hospital and case of West Nile virus is confirmed.  Early Warning  “The vector index tells you right when people are getting
infected. You can nip the epidemic in the bud before many people
are infected,” said  Robert Haley , a study author and a
professor of medicine and director of the Division of
Epidemiology, at the University of  Texas  Southwestern Medical
Center in Dallas, in a telephone interview. “If you wait until
you have large numbers of people sick you miss the
opportunity.”  A second study in the journal showed the West Nile virus
has spread to all 48 states on the U.S. mainland as well as all
Canadian provinces since 1999. There have been large outbreaks
in 2002, 2003 and 2012. Since 1999, 1,549 people have died.  Ostroff said late July through early September is when
exposure to the West Nile virus is highest. He said more
emphasis needs to be placed on finding a vaccine to prevent the
infection or a treatment once it occurs, neither of which are
available for humans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  