-- BHP Quarterly Iron Ore Output Rises 17% to Beat Estimates
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-07-17T06:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/bhp-quarterly-iron-ore-output-rises-17-to-beat-expectations.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, said fourth-quarter  iron ore  production
gained 17 percent as the company expands operations in  Australia 
to deliver a 13th annual output record.  Production was 47.7 million metric tons in the three months
ended June 30, from 40.9 million tons a year earlier, Melbourne-based BHP said today in a statement. That beat the 43.2 million
ton median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The result compares with the 7 percent increase at  Rio
Tinto Group (RIO) ’s  iron ore  operations, which also beat analyst
estimates when announced yesterday. Growth in  China , the biggest
metals buyers, slowed for a second quarter, as the government
reins in credit expansion to reduce the danger of a financial
crisis.  “There’s no doubt that while the rate of growth in China
has slowed, the demand for iron ore continues to increase,”
 Michael McCarthy , chief market strategist at CMC Markets
Australia, said. “Those volume increases will at least to some
extent offset the fall in revenues that comes from lower
commodity prices.”  BHP  shares  gained 2.3 percent to A$34.19 at the close of
trading in Sydney. Rio, the world’s second-largest miner, rose
1.1 percent.  Volume Offset  The price of  iron ore  has dropped 18 percent since January,
and is forecast to decline until at least 2016, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A strong year of production as two of our major assets,
Western Australia Iron Ore and Escondida, exceeded production
guidance and annual records were achieved across seven
operations and five commodities,” BHP said in the statement.  While iron ore production beat estimates, the company’s
total petroleum output of 59.2 million barrels of oil
equivalent, up 5 percent from a year earlier, missed analyst
guidance of 63.7 million barrels.  Output of coking coal, BHP’s fourth-largest source of
revenue, rose 34 percent to 11 million tons.  Thermal coal output gained 6 percent to 20 million tons,
BHP said. Copper gained 7 percent to 333,200 tons from higher
production at the Escondida mine in  Chile .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  