-- Biggest Philippine Pension Fund Sees 9% Stocks Rally
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-07-17T03:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/biggest-philippine-pension-fund-sees-9-stocks-rally-on-earnings.html
The  Philippines ’ benchmark stock
 index  will advance about 9 percent in the next 12 months as
 Asia ’s fastest economic expansion and record-low  interest rates 
boost earnings, according to the country’s biggest pension fund.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index, which is down 11
percent from a  record  7,392.20 on May 15, may climb to 7,200
from yesterday’s close of 6,583.55, Robert Vergara, president of
the Government Service Insurance System, said in an interview in
 Manila  yesterday. The fund, which manages about 725 billion
pesos ($16.7 billion) for more than 1.4 million state workers,
will add to its 16.5 percent weighting in equities should the
PSE index drop below 6,000, Vergara said. The gauge fell 0.5
percent to 6,553.21 at 11:45 a.m. in Manila.  Earnings will  increase  about 15 percent during the next two
years as the economy expands 6 percent to 7 percent and low
borrowing costs fuel  consumer spending , he said. The PSE index
has declined since May as speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve
will reduce monetary stimulus spurred capital flight from
emerging markets. Foreign investors sold a net $241 million of
Philippine shares last month, the most since 2008, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “My view for the outlook of the Philippines is still very
robust,” Vergara said. “If the market gives us the opportunity
we will put more into equities. It’s not unusual for stocks to
overshoot, as we have seen earlier this year.”  The PSE index is valued at 18 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for the next 12 months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. While that’s an 80 percent premium over the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index, the Philippine measure’s multiple has
dropped from a record 21 in May.  Relative Yields  Vergara said the fund would consider increasing equity
holdings to as much as 20 percent of total assets if the gauge
falls below the 5,500 level. He favors  banks , construction and
property firms, consumer companies and casinos. He didn’t
identify any specific stocks.  The PSE index’s 30-day historical  volatility  rose to 45.3
on July 8, the highest level since December 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Philippine shares will outperform the nation’s bonds,
Vergara said. The BofA Merrill Lynch Philippines Government
Index of sovereign debt has a yield of 3.5 percent after
returning 10 percent this year. That compares with the 5.5
percent estimated earnings yield on the PSE Index, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO)  and Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co., two of
the nation’s biggest money managers, said in interviews last
month they were switching out of bonds to buy stocks.  Dream Economy  The Philippine economy expanded 7.8 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, outpacing  China ’s 7.7 percent pace.
The central bank has kept its benchmark overnight borrowing  rate 
at a record low 3.5 percent since October 2012 and reduced the
rate on special deposit accounts three times this year to 2
percent.  The country “is still experiencing a secular growth
story,” Vergara said. “We have the kind of economy that every
country dreams of.”  Philippine shares are expensive and investors may move
money out of Southeast Asian equities into cheaper markets,
including China and  South Korea , Catherine Yeung, an investment
director for equities at Fidelity Worldwide Investment in  Hong
Kong , said in a telephone interview July 11.  The PSE index’s forward price-to-earnings ratio of 18
compares with 6.6 for the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  and
8.7 for South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Market Impact  GSIS is targeting annual returns of about 8.5 percent from
its investments to provide retirement, life insurance and
health-care benefits to government workers. It has about 46
percent of its holdings in fixed income and 4 percent in real
estate, Vergara said.  The fund may consider boosting overseas holdings next year
in part because the growing size of its investments makes it
difficult to trade local shares without moving prices, Vergara
said. He’s “excited” about the U.S. equity  market  as housing
prices recover, unemployment falls and rising energy output
makes the world’s largest economy more competitive.  The fund liquidated a $670 million global investment
portfolio managed by  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific
Investment Management Co. and Amundi, a Luxembourg-based asset
manager, in 2011 after returns fell below target. GSIS started a
global investment program in 2008 to diversify its holdings.  “The simple truth is that we’re getting very, very big,”
Vergara said. “Investing in the market without having price
impact is becoming more and more difficult.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  