-- Biggest Muni Sale of 2013 Set to Price for Texas Roadway
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-07-16T18:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/biggest-muni-sale-of-2013-set-to-price-for-texas-roadway.html
Grand Parkway Transportation Corp.’s
$2.6 billion debt offering, the biggest municipal-bond sale in
more than a year, will price today, one day early, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Texas has pledged to support all but $200 million of the
deal by providing an advance called a toll-equity loan to Grand
Parkway of as much as $9.6 billion, according to sale documents.
The corporation can use those funds if toll revenue falls short.
Proceeds will finance construction on 55 miles (89 kilometers)
of four-lane roadway in the Harris and Montgomery counties in
the northwestern Houston area.  Debt maturing in 2053 and rated AA by  Standard & Poor’s  is
pricing with a preliminary yield of 5.185 percent, Bloomberg
data show. Those bonds are supported by the toll-equity loan.
Bonds with the same maturity that don’t have the state security
and are rated BBB by S&P are pricing with a preliminary yield of
5.625 percent, Bloomberg data show.  “From a long-term perspective, relative to other double-A
Texas paper, it looks OK,” Lyle Fitterer, managing director at
Wells Capital Management, said about the initial yields.
“Everybody loves Texas paper.”  Fitterer, who helps oversee $31 billion in munis from
 Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , is buying some of the bonds.  Toll Road  Veronica Beyer, spokeswoman for the state’s Transportation
Department, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail about the
sale’s pricing.  The deal is the largest municipal-bond offering since
Michigan Finance Authority sold $2.9 billion of revenue debt in
June 2012 to repay federal unemployment-benefit loans, Bloomberg
data show.  Grand Parkway’s sale is leading states and localities
planning to borrow more than $10 billion of long-term debt this
week, the  most  in three months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The transaction includes taxable bonds, tax-exempt debt, short-term securities and capital-appreciation debt whose principal
and interest aren’t paid until maturity.  Grand Parkway’s offering priced as yields on benchmark 30-year munis fell by about 0.2 percentage point to 4.34 percent,
at 2 p.m. in  New York  today, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The yield climbed to 4.42 percent last week, the highest in more
than two years. Yields move in the opposite direction of prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  