-- Billabong Halts Shares Awaiting Refinancing, Asset Sales
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-07-16T06:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/billabong-halts-shares-over-refinancing-asset-sale-transactions.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , the
surfwear company that’s lost 76 percent of its market value over
the past year, halted trading of its shares citing developments
in refinancing and asset-sale plans.  The Australian retailer will keep the shares suspended
until the start of trade on July 18, unless it makes another
statement before then, the company said in a regulatory
statement today.  Billabong said last month it’s looking to sell its Canadian
retail chain West 49 after the company breached terms on its
debt. The retailer said it was in talks with Sycamore Partners
Management and Altamont Capital Partners over possible
refinancing and asset-sale deals to repay loans.  “They’re at the firesale point where they need to
refinance the balance sheet. They’re going to have to take
massive writedowns,” Evan Lucas, a market strategist at IG
Markets Ltd. in  Melbourne , said by phone. “They grew too fast
and leveraged themselves too hard.”  Five members of its banking syndicate have already sold out
of their loan holdings, three people familiar with the matter
said July 3.  Billabong shares had fallen 2 percent to 25 Australian
cents before they were halted today. The company, whose market
value rose as high as A$3.84 billion ($3.5 billion) in June
2007, is now priced at about A$120 million after it shut stores,
fired employees, and sold new shares to raise cash as a consumer
slump in its home market and the weak European economy weighed
on earnings.  Debt Burden  Separate talks with Sycamore and Altamont were “well
advanced”, the company said June 25, adding that there was no
guarantee that anything would be agreed on. Distressed-debt
investors Oaktree Capital Management and Centerbridge Partners
bought at least A$280 million of senior loans from Billabong’s
syndicate, the Wall Street Journal reported July 4 without
saying where it got the information.  Billabong has A$651 million in debt facilities due to be
repaid by July next year, with A$152 million of net debt drawn
at the end of December.  The company is also contracted to spend A$464 million on
rent and buying products from suppliers from July 1, according
to its most recent annual report. Billabong bought West 49 for
C$92 million ($88 million) in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The purchase gave it 138 retail stores across
 Canada .  “The trading halt is necessary so that the market is able
to trade on a fully informed basis,” Billabong,  Australia ’s
largest surfwear company, said in today’s statement. Spokesmen
for Altamont and Sycamore didn’t respond to e-mails sent outside
of U.S. office hours seeking comment.  Market Capitalization  Equity in the business is now worth little more than half
the A$225 million it raised  selling new stock  to shareholders
last year. It’s also less than the value of about A$289 million
put on its inventory of clothes and accessories at Dec. 31,
according to the company’s most recent balance sheet.  “The fact that their market cap is under what their
inventory level was in December is indicative,” IG Market’s
Lucas said.  Stores including Inditex SA’s Zara, Hennes & Mauritz AB,
and Arcadia Group Plc’s Topshop have undermined the business,
Lucas said. “It’s been completely decimated by these guys
selling similar quality clothing at lower prices,” he said.  Billabong’s brands, which include DaKine, Element, and
RVCA, were valued at A$614 million before a 38 percent writedown
at annual results last June, and were further written down to
A$149 million at the end of December.  Brand Value  The Billabong brand is estimated by the company to be worth
A$30 million at the end of last year, or just 6.8 percent of
A$435 million value in December 2011.  Rebuilding the brand will have to take place against the
backdrop of sales expected to fall to a six-year low this year,
based on the average of  10 analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization may fall to A$50 million by 2015 as wholesale
earnings decline and at that level equity value of the company
is zero, Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Grant Saligari wrote in
a note to clients March 20. The measure will be between A$67
million and A$74 million in 2013, Billabong said June 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  