-- Blackstone Starts Mutual Fund to Win Individual Investors
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-07-16T15:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/blackstone-starts-mutual-fund-to-win-individual-investors.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
biggest manager of alternative assets, is starting a mutual fund
that will invest in hedge funds, part of an industrywide push to
attract assets from individual investors.  The fund will be run by Blackstone Alternative Asset
Management, or  BAAM , the New York-based firm’s hedge funds-of-funds business, Blackstone said today in a statement. Called
Blackstone Alternative Multi-Manager Fund, it will charge fees
of 3.25 percent of assets annually, including a 1.95 percent
management fee, according to a  filing  yesterday with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Blackstone joins peers  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and  KKR & Co. (KKR)  in
starting offerings that can be marketed to individual investors
as the leveraged-buyout industry seeks to broaden its client
base and win some of the $3.57 trillion Americans have
accumulated in their 401(k) retirement plans. Blackstone said it
spent the past three years analyzing the market for alternative
funds that are liquid, meaning they let investors sell and buy
without restrictions.  “If we’re able to get this right, then individual
investors with assets that are significantly less than
historically invested are going to be able to get access” to
alternatives, Tom Hill, BAAM’s chief executive officer, said at
Blackstone’s investor day on May 3 in  New York .  Money managers that will receive allocations from the
mutual fund are Two Sigma Advisers LLC, Cerberus Sub-Advisory I
LLC, Credit Suisse Hedging-Griffo Servicos Internacionais SA,
HealthCor Management LP, Caspian Capital LP, Boussard and
Gavaudan Asset Management LP, Wellington Management Company LLP,
Good Hill Partners LP, BTG Pactual Asset Management U.S.,
Chatham Asset Management LLC and Nephila Capital Ltd.,
Blackstone said. Nephila, a hedge fund, sold a 25 percent stake
of itself to KKR earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  