-- BlackRock Dodges Pimco Losses in Abandoning OGX: Brazil Credit
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-07-16T13:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/blackrock-dodges-pimco-losses-in-abandoning-ogx-brazil-credit.html
BlackRock Inc.’s (BHYIX)  sale of about 70
percent of its holdings in bonds from billionaire  Eike Batista ’s
oil producer is helping the largest asset manager avoid the
losses suffered by Pacific Investment Management Co.  While Pimco, the manager of the world’s biggest bond fund,
kept buying in the six months through March as the selloff
intensified in bonds issued by OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA, BlackRock’s most recent regulatory filings show it cut its
holdings to $69 million. Prices on OGX’s $2.56 billion of 2018
bonds have sunk to a record low 16 cents on the dollar from 77.6
cents at the end of March and 89.7 cents in September, making
them the worst-performing dollar debt in emerging markets.  The rout, sparked by Batista’s failure to deliver the oil
production he pledged from offshore fields he has called
“bonanza” assets, is vindicating BlackRock’s decision as
investors brace for what would be the biggest-ever corporate
default in Latin America. Credit Suisse Group AG estimates Rio
de Janeiro-based OGX, which forms part of a Batista empire whose
combined market capitalization has fallen $38 billion in the
past two years, will have about $13 million in cash by year-end.  “Without revenue, the shareholders don’t have much to lean
on, and I’m not sure at the end of the day the bondholders do
either,”  Arthur Byrnes , who oversees about $1 billion of assets
as senior managing director at Deltec Asset Management LLC, said
in a telephone interview from New York. Deltec has sold all its
OGX notes, he said. “The ability to buy the bonds at a discount
-- it’s not clear that it’s good value. The big lesson here is
you can’t buy overpromises.”  Output Setbacks  Regulatory filings from February to April show BlackRock
funds sold about $160 million in face value of OGX dollar debt
in the preceding six months.  Pimco increased holdings of OGX’s 2018 and 2022 securities
by about $170 million in the six months through March to about
$576 million, filings from the world’s biggest active bond-fund
manager show.  OGX, which said earlier this month it’s considering halting
production at its only active field due to lower than expected
output, is part of the empire created by Batista, whose
estimated fortune has shrunk by about $31 billion from its peak,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Beating Peers  Michael Reid, a spokesman for Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, declined to comment on the fund manager’s holdings
of OGX debt and how its investments in the company’s debt have
changed since March.  Melissa Garville, a spokeswoman at  BlackRock (BLK) , declined to
comment on the company’s holdings of OGX bonds and how its
investments have changed since the most recent filings.  BlackRock’s $10.5 billion High Yield Portfolio, which has
outperformed 91 percent of peers over the past five years, sold
all $114 million of its OGX debt between June 2012 and March
2013, when the bonds traded at an average 88.2 cents on the
dollar, according to regulatory filings. The company’s 8.5
percent notes due in 2018 were the fund’s third-largest
individual holding at the end of June 2012.  BlackRock Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink said in
a conference call with analysts and investors in January that
the company, which oversees $3.94 trillion in assets, will put a
greater emphasis on  emerging markets  in 2013.  BlackRock Hires  The asset manager said in April it hired Gerardo Rodriguez,
a former undersecretary of finance and public credit in  Mexico ,
to help support its emerging-markets business and product-development strategy. Sergio Trigo Paz, the head of emerging-markets fixed income within the portfolio-management group,
joined the money manager last year.  An OGX press official who asked not to be named in
accordance with policy declined to comment. The company said in
a July 10 e-mail response to questions that it isn’t
restructuring its dollar debt.  U.S. law firms including Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton
LLP and Bingham McCutchen LLP said they have met with Batista’s
creditors in the past week to discuss Brazilian insolvency law.  Moody’s Investors Service cut OGX’s credit rating two
levels to Ca yesterday, 10 steps below investment grade, and
maintained its negative outlook. Obligations rated Ca are likely
in, or very near, default, according to the rating company.  Record Default  If OGX halts payments on its debt, it would be almost
double Banco de Galicia y Buenos Aires SA’s $1.9 billion default
in 2002, the largest in Latin America to date, according to data
compiled by Moody’s.  “A restructuring seems imminent,” Jack Deino, who
oversees about $1.8 billion in emerging-market debt at Invesco
Ltd., said in a telephone interview from Atlanta. “The bottom
line is you just have way too much debt and way too few assets.
This is going to be a great test of the Brazilian bankruptcy
regime and the legal backdrop in the country.”  Batista is seeking to sell assets and renegotiate debt
amassed by his six publicly traded companies. He’s also looking
to bring in partners and inject fresh capital into OGX, a person
with direct knowledge of the plans said earlier this month.
Grupo BTG Pactual, the investment bank adviser for Batista’s
companies, is looking for prospective oil field partners,
according to the person, who asked not to be identified because
the negotiations are private.  ‘Silver Lining’  Henri Alexaline, who helps manage $1 billion of fixed-income assets at FM Capital Partners Ltd., said that OGX could
avoid default if a foreign investor provides a cash infusion and
helps develop the company’s oil fields.  “The only silver lining could come from foreign
investors,” Alexaline said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “If you have an anchor investor ready to position
himself in the company and take on responsibility for the
ongoing development plan, that would be clearly a positive and
that could allow OGX to avoid running out of cash and get into
default.”  OGX shares  have tumbled  88 percent this year, the worst
performance on  Brazil ’s benchmark Ibovespa index.  Brazilian government dollar  bond yields  have surged an
average 1.51 percentage points to 4.97 percent in the period,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. index data show.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 226 basis points at 7
a.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years dropped five basis points to 172 basis points.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real strengthened 2.1 percent to 2.2201 per U.S. dollar
yesterday. Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in
January slipped three basis points to 8.77 percent.  OGX may finish the quarter with about $150 million in cash,
according to a July 1 report from Barclays Plc. The company is
scheduled to make a $45 million interest payment on its 2022
dollar bonds Oct. 1 and a $109 million payment on the 2018 bonds
in December.  “There’s a high risk that the company could be
liquidated,” Omar Zeolla, a corporate credit analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co., said in a telephone interview from New York.
“A debt restructuring would save them $300 million a year in
interest. They need more money to operate and exploit their
assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  