-- BOE’s Fisher Says Volatility From Fed’s QE Tapering May Continue
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-16T11:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/boe-s-fisher-says-volatility-from-fed-s-qe-tapering-may-continue.html
Bank of England Markets Director
Paul Fisher said recent volatility sparked by the Federal
Reserve’s comments on tapering its quantitative-easing program
was a “sensible correction” and may continue.  “Spillovers from the U.S. to the U.K. mean that I expect
we’ll continue to get volatility as the U.S. exits from its
QE,” Fisher told lawmakers in Parliament in  London  today.
“We’re now seeing the market trying to find new levels. I’m not
sure that adjustment has fully worked through yet. But they were
right to re-price.”  The BOE policy maker, who has been voting for more QE in
recent months, also said that the unwinding of stimulus in the
U.K. may be “years in the future,” citing investor
expectations for interest-rate increases. The BOE’s Monetary
Policy Committee is currently examining how it can guide those
expectations and is scheduled to release a report next month.  The BOE’s exit will start with an increase in the  benchmark
rate  and the market reaction to that will determine when sales
of gilts purchased as part of the  QE program  begin, Fisher said
at a hearing of the Treasury Committee. He said the BOE will lay
out a timetable for sales as part of its QE unwinding to provide
“certainty” to investors.  “We would only start when we thought we could maintain a
program of sales for a good long period,” Fisher said. “We’ve
suggested maybe six months’ worth at a time.”  ‘Sensible Correction’  Asked about the increase in bond yields after Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled on June 19 the U.S.
central bank may start tapering its monthly stimulus program
this year, Fisher said “most of my contacts are saying this is
a sensible correction to put some two-way risk back.” He added
that the market was “ripe for volatility” prior to Bernanke’s
remarks.  The BOE reacted to the market activity at its July 4 policy
meeting, saying the “implied rise in the expected future path
of bank rate was not warranted by the recent developments in the
domestic economy.”  “Volatility has not been particularly high over the last
couple of months,” Fisher said today. “It’s come up from what
was a very low, compressed level to something which across
markets -- across those couple of months -- has been about
average, so we could easily see more volatile periods like this
in the period to come.”  “I wouldn’t say I’m sure the current level is in the right
place,” he said. “I think it will take a while.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  