-- Bollore Adds Vivendi Shares After Capital Raising Dilutes Stake
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2013-07-16T13:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/bollore-adds-vivendi-shares-after-capital-raising-dilutes-stake.html
French billionaire  Vincent Bollore 
bought more shares in  Vivendi SA (VIV)  to offset the impact of a
recent capital raising on his stake in the Paris-based
telecommunications and media company.  Bollore, who sits on Vivendi’s board, added 6.1 million
euros ($8 million) of shares this month, according to filings
today on the French financial-markets regulator’s website.  “These share purchases are intended to maintain Groupe
Bollore’s stake in Vivendi slightly above 5 percent after a
share capital increase related to Vivendi’s employee savings
plan,” Vivendi said today in an e-mailed statement.  Bollore joined Vivendi’s supervisory committee in December,
after selling Groupe Bollore’s television assets last year to
Vivendi’s pay-TV unit,  Canal Plus . The share-financed deal took
his stake to 2.8 percent. It had been initiated in September
2011 under  Jean-Bernard Levy , who was ousted from the chief
executive post in June 2012. Vivendi Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou
has been overseeing the company’s strategy since then.  A spokesman for Bollore didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment.  Bollore “has not expressed a desire to take over my role
as chairman immediately,” Fourtou said in April during
Vivendi’s annual shareholder meeting. He added that it may
become a topic “later on.”  In May 2012, Bollore said he has “great confidence” in
Fourtou and Levy. “I think they will fix their problems.”  Vivendi  fell  0.1 percent to 15.15 euros at 3:38 p.m. in
Paris, valuing the company at 20 billion euros. The stock had
lost 11 percent this year through yesterday.  Asset Sales  Since Levy’s ouster, Fourtou, 74, hasn’t been able to see
through asset sales and reiterated at Vivendi’s April meeting
that disposals are still the company’s goal.  Attempts to divest Brazilian Internet operator GVT and a
stake in game publisher Activision Blizzard Inc. have failed
because of valuation differences or insufficient interest.
Efforts to sell a majority stake in Maroc Telecom SA foundered
last month when Qatar Telecom QSC, one of the two bidders who
submitted binding offers, dropped out, citing how long the
process was taking.  Bollore, 61, is Vivendi’s second-biggest shareholder. New
York-based BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager,
holds 5.7 percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in London at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  