-- Cameron Believes in Continuous At-Sea Deterrent, Spokesman Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-07-16T10:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/cameron-believes-in-continuous-at-sea-deterrent-spokesman-says.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
committed to the like-for-like replacement of the Trident
nuclear-weapons system, his spokesman said after a review of
alternatives was published today.  “The PM believes in continuous at-sea deterrence,” Jean-Christophe Gray told reporters in London today. “He has seen no
evidence that there are credible alternatives.”  The review was carried out by government officials at the
request of the Liberal Democrats, the junior partner in the
coalition government, after a disagreement with Cameron’s
 Conservative Party  over the replacement of Britain’s nuclear
weapons. It concluded that other options would be too expensive
and would not offer the level of deterrence that the U.K.
requires.  “The costs of delivering an alternative system could
theoretically have been cheaper than procuring a like-for-like
renewal of Trident were it not for timing and the fact that the
U.K. deterrent infrastructure is finely tuned to
support a submarine-based Trident system,” according to the
review.  “In particular, the time it would take to develop a new
warhead (itself a costly and high risk exercise) is judged to
be longer than the current Vanguard-class submarines can safely
be Trident Alternatives Review 11 operated,” it said.  “Bridging the resulting gap in deterrence capability would
involve procuring two Successor SSBNs so that a Trident-based
deterrent remains available until at least 2040,” it said.
“Doing that at the same time as investing in the development of
a new warhead, new missile, new platform and new infrastructure
means that transitioning to any of the realistic alternative
systems is now more expensive than a 3 or 4-boat successor SSBN
fleet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Atkinson at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net  