-- Campaign Vans Shadowed by Twitter as Japan Loosens Rules
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-07-16T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/campaign-vans-shadowed-by-twitter-as-japan-loosens-rules.html
Noise-polluting trucks with
loudspeakers and politicians hoarse from giving speeches at
railway stations have been a staple of Japanese elections since
before the Second World War.  That may be about to change, as politicians take advantage
of new laws allowing them to use Twitter Inc.,  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and
video streaming websites to campaign online.  Japan ’s July 21 upper house election is the first
nationwide voting since the end of a ban on candidates using the
Internet to spread political messages in a nation where door-to-door campaign visits are illegal. Politicians now have a
campaign tool that’s quicker, cheaper and quieter than the
loudspeaker trucks.  “Online campaigning may have an impact on public opinion,
and voting results could be drastically different,” said
Hiroshi Naya, an analyst at Ichiyoshi Research Institute Inc. in
Tokyo. “Those who aren’t familiar with online communication
methods have to learn how to use them.”  Companies such as  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689)  and  Dwango Co. (3715) , which
has seen candidates tap its Niconico video streaming channel,
may benefit from the new style of campaigning, Naya said.  Loudspeaker vans are legal under Japan’s Public Offices
Election Act. Rules also limit the size and number of pamphlets
a political group can use and where posters can be placed.  New Blogs  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party , along
with coalition ally New Komeito, will probably win a majority in
the upper house election, according to a July 4-5 Yomiuri
newspaper poll.  Under the old campaigning rules, candidates were barred
from even updating blogs or making new entries on social
networks during the campaign.  The April rule change has triggered a rush of politicians
starting blogs to communicate with voters.  Of the 433 candidates in the election, 121 have opened an
account at  CyberAgent Inc. (4751) ’s  Ameba  blogging service. About half
of them are newly created accounts since the Tokyo-based company
started in April offering free consulting services for
politicians to help them get used to social media, said Ayako
Toba, an Ameba spokeswoman.  Septeni Holdings Co. (4293) , which manages Internet advertising
businesses, last month sold an e-mail authentication service to
a major Japanese political party, spokeswoman Hiromi Kofunato
said, declining to specify the buyer. Septeni has also begun a
consulting service to help politicians open Facebook accounts.  Market Impact  Shares of Dwango have almost tripled this year and Septeni
has more than doubled, compared with a 41 percent advance for
the broader  Topix (TPX)  index. Dwango’s Niconico Internet streaming
service is used by 10 political parties, according to Akiko
Matsumoto, spokeswoman for the Tokyo-based company.  “Those shares started to gain on expectation that the rule
change would benefit the companies,” said Ichiyoshi’s Naya.  While many candidates are still beginners in the use of
social media, a notable exception is Prime Minister Abe, said
Jitsuko Miyazaki, who runs Haru Consulting Inc., an Internet
business firm based in Yokohama, near  Tokyo .  “There is no limit to using Internet to show what you are
doing,” she said. “Prime Minister Abe may be the only
politician standing out for regular use of online media.”  Abe has been uploading photos and comments several times a
day to his  Facebook account  since he kicked off the LDP campaign
July 4. Pictures and videos from the trip include a breakfast
with his wife at home, holding a supporter’s baby during a lunch
break and shaking hands with shoppers as he walked through a
local market.  Obama’s Twitter  More than 5,000 people gathered in  Osaka  as Abe gave a
speech for a LDP candidate Takuji Yanagimoto, Abe’s July 6
postings show. More than 10,700 people clicked a “like” button
for that posting.  While Abe’s over 153,000 Twitter followers number more than
LDP Secretary General Shigeru Ishiba’s 35,000, the roster is
dwarfed by the more than 34 million people who track U.S.
President  Barack Obama ’s  posts .  Yosuke Ito, a candidate for the governing Liberal
Democratic Party, is among those shunning traditional methods
for the election. The 49-year-old musician has been seeking
votes through Twitter, Facebook, Google Inc.’s YouTube and
Niconico.  That’s Entertainment  As the new rules took effect, Ito kept his blog updated
with new videos and photos while also getting help from other
artists that are signed with  Avex Group Holdings Inc. (7860) , the
agency that manages his music. The dance group Exile appeared on
his blog, helping it become the most popular among the 121 Ameba
sites for candidates.  Ito, formerly a stockbroker, knows where he sees the value
of his campaign.  “I am campaigning mainly on Internet,” Ito said in a July
8 post on Twitter. “I don’t repeat my name from an election van
or scream out a speech in front of a station. I’d rather bring
my passion in packets and footage that are enjoyable to all
through Niconico and YouTube.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  