-- Canadian Crudes Weaken as Suncor Resumes Full Oil Sands Output
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-07-16T19:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/canadian-crudes-weaken-as-suncor-resumes-full-oil-sands-output.html
Canadian crude oils weakened on the
 spot market  as the country’s largest producer said its  oil sands 
operations returned to full production following record flooding
in  Alberta .  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ’s output was curtailed last month when
Enbridge Inc. shut down its regional oil-sands pipeline system
because of the flooding. Production had been reduced by about 3
million barrels during the pipeline interruption, the company
said.  Western Canadian Select, a heavy bitumen blend, weakened 25
cents to a $16.25 discount to U.S. benchmark West Texas
Intermediate oil, according to Calgary oil broker Net Energy
Inc. Syncrude, a light oil from oil-sands bitumen, was unchanged
at a $3-a-barrel premium to WTI as of 1:10 p.m. New York time,
after losing as much as 25 cents a barrel in earlier trading,
Net Energy said.  Suncor “has returned to full production at its oil sands
operations,” the company said in a release today. “Since the
restart of the  Enbridge (ENB)  regional oil sands pipeline system
earlier this month, Suncor has been ramping up its oil sands
production as pipeline and storage capacity would allow.”  Enbridge shut down its oil-sands systems on June 22 after
heavy rain caused the ground to shift under Line 37, which
leaked about 1,300 barrels of oil from Nexen Inc.’s Long Lake
project. The northern portion of the Athabasca pipeline from
Fort McMurray, where Suncor’s oil-sands operations are located,
was returned to full pressure as of July 11.  Record Flooding  The flooding in southern Alberta caused by the heavy rains
was the worst in the province’s history, the provincial
government said.  Suncor said it still expects its annual oil-sands output to
be within the range of 350,000 to 380,000 barrels a day, even
after the pipeline interruption. It produced 389,000 barrels of
oil sands a day during the first quarter.  “The Midwest is short crude following Canada flooding and
refinery restarts,” Adam Longson, an analyst with Morgan
Stanley in  New York , said in a note to clients yesterday.
“Canada is slowly returning and the pace of draws should slow
as early as next week,” he said.  U.S. refinery operating  rates  increased to 92.4 percent in
the week ended July 5, the highest level since August, according
to Energy Information Administration data. Refineries boosted
rates as they returned from maintenance and as demand for
gasoline rose in the summer driving season.  U.S. crude supplies probably fell to the lowest level in
more than five months as vacationers stoked demand for gasoline,
a Bloomberg survey showed. Stockpiles decreased by 2 million
barrels, or 0.5 percent, to 371.9 million barrels in the week
ended July 12, according to the median of nine analyst estimates
before a report tomorrow by the EIA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  