-- Canada Stocks Decline as Health Shares Slump Before Earnings
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-07-16T20:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/canada-stocks-fluctuate-as-commodities-rally-offsets-industrials.html
Canadian  stocks  fell, dragged down
by a drop in health-care companies, as investors awaited
earnings and watched for signals from central bank officials.  WestJet Airlines Ltd. lost 3.7 percent to pace declines
among industrial stocks.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and Iamgold Corp.
added at least 5.9 percent as gold rose for a second day. Wi-Lan
Inc. rallied 14 percent after plunging the most in 12 years
yesterday. Teck Resources Ltd. gained 2.3 percent as copper
advanced.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  fell 11.46
points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,516.89 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
gauge has gained 0.7 percent this year. Trading was in line with
the 30-day average.  “The summer rally has already happened so now it’s tough
to continue further,” said Paul Gardner, a  fund manager  with
Avenue Investment Management in Toronto. The firm manages about
C$300 million ($288 million). “You’re waiting for earnings to
come in and earnings have generally been pretty good.”  More than 60 Canadian companies on the TSX are scheduled to
report second-quarter earnings in the next two weeks.  Bank of  Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz is set to deliver his
first  interest-rate  decision since taking over the job in June
from former governor  Mark Carney , who departed to run the  Bank
of England . Poloz, who has said Canada’s expansion requires
“patience,” will probably keep his benchmark interest rate at
1 percent tomorrow where it’s been since September 2010,
according to a Bloomberg economist survey.  The world’s 11th largest economy has been slowed by weak
foreign demand, leading to the longest streak of trade deficits
in a quarter century.  Beige Book  The U.S. Federal Reserve will publish tomorrow its latest
 beige book , which updates local economic conditions. Fed Bank of
Kansas City President Esther George, speaking today on Fox
Business News, said the U.S. was on the “right path” for
economic recovery and that cuts in the pace of stimulus are
“appropriate.” Central bank stimulus has helped fuel a surge
in stocks worldwide.  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. fell for the
first time in five days, dropping 2.8 percent to C$94.93 for the
biggest loss in a month. Health-care stocks lost the most among
10  industries  in the S&P/TSX, declining 2.4 percent.  WestJet Tumbles  WestJet, the Calgary-based discount airline, slumped 3.7
percent to C$20.69. North American low-cost airline demand
jumped 6.1 percent year-over-year in June, according to a report
from George Ferguson, an air transport analyst with Bloomberg
Industries.  Load factor, a measure of aircraft capacity and use, rose
20 basis points to 84.7 percent for the industry, with WestJet
and JetBlue Airways Corp. registering the only declines,
Ferguson said.  Wi-Lan, a patent licensing company based in Ottawa, rallied
14 percent to C$3.83, the biggest gain in two years. The stock
yesterday plunged 31 percent, the most since 2001, after losing
a U.S. patent infringement trial against Alcatel-Lucent and
Ericsson AB.  A jury in Tyler,  Texas , said the two companies didn’t
infringe on three Wi-Lan patents, while phones made by HTC Corp.
and Sony Corp. were cleared for infringement for a fourth
patent.  Barrick Gold, the world’s largest producer of the metal,
climbed 5.9 percent to C$16.62 while Iamgold increased 6.8
percent to C$4.86. Gold futures for August delivery gained 0.5
percent to settle at $1,290.40 an ounce in  New York , for the
sixth advance in seven sessions.  Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. rallied 5.3 percent to C$3.61 as
silver for September delivery rose 0.5 percent.  Teck Resources, Canada’s largest diversified miner, rose
2.3 percent to C$23.73 as copper advanced for the first time in
three days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  