-- Canadian Dollar Falls on Bets Poloz Acknowledges Slower Economy
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-07-16T14:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/canadian-dollar-falls-on-bets-poloz-acknowledges-slower-economy.html
The Canadian dollar fell against the
majority of its 16 most-traded peers before Stephen Poloz’s
debut  interest-rate  decision tomorrow since taking over as Bank
of  Canada  governor last month.  The currency fluctuated against the U.S. dollar, which
declined against most major currencies amid speculation Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will seek to damp investor
expectations of a reduction in stimulus when he speaks before
Congress tomorrow. Poloz, who previously headed up Canada’s
export development agency, will keep the benchmark interest rate
at 1 percent tomorrow as he releases his inaugural monetary
policy report, according to a Bloomberg survey of 20 economists.  “Given his background and given the Canadian economy has
underperformed a little bit, he might talk in somewhat
stimulative terms to present to the market he is aware and he is
prepared to do what it takes to improve the situation,” said
Blake Jespersen, managing director of foreign exchange at Bank
of Montreal, by phone from Toronto. “But at this point he sort
of has his hands tied. He can’t raise rates given the economy
hasn’t been performing that well and again he can’t cut rates
given the consumer-debt levels.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known, was little
changed at C$1.0432 per U.S. dollar at 10:17 a.m. in Toronto.
One loonie buys 95.86 U.S. cents.  Bond Yields  Canada’s 10-year benchmark government bonds were little
changed with yields at 2.41 percent. The 1.5 percent security
maturing in June 2023 traded at C$92.05.  The  Bank of Canada  will provide additional details on July
18 about a two-year debt sale scheduled for July 24.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, rose 0.2
percent to $106.50 per barrel in  New York  and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks was little changed.  Canadian  factory sales  rose in May on gains in chemicals
and metals while inventories fell from a record high, government
figures showed. Sales climbed 0.7 percent to C$48.6 billion
($46.7 billion) in May, leaving them 3.2 percent below their
level from 12 months earlier,  Statistics Canada  said today in
Ottawa. Economists  forecast  a 0.8 percent monthly increase,
according to the median of a Bloomberg survey with 15 responses.  Central Bank  The Bank of Canada’s interest-rate announcement tomorrow
will retain year-old language crafted by Poloz’s predecessor
 Mark Carney  that indicates the next move in the central bank’s
overnight policy rate will be upward, according to all but one
of 14 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  “The debate there is whether he shifts to a more neutral
stance or retains a slight hawkish bias, and I’d say the market
is pretty split on that,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency
strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia , by phone from Toronto. “In
terms of Canadian data, a slight miss in terms of the estimate
for manufacturing sales, but all-in-all better than last month.
But if you look at the broader trend it’s still flat overall.”  U.S. industrial production rose in June by the most in four
months, signaling manufacturing is improving heading into the
second half of the year and boosting bets the economy is getting
strong enough for the Fed to wind down economic stimulus this
year.  The loonie has gained 1.5 percent in the past three months
against nine developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The  U.S. dollar  led
gainers with a 3.9 percent jump followed by the euro’s 3.4
percent increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  