-- Canada Dollar Rises on Speculation Bernanke May Sustain Stimulus
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-07-16T21:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/canada-dollar-rises-on-speculation-bernanke-may-sustain-stimulus.html
The Canadian dollar joined most
major peers in rising against its U.S. counterpart on
speculation Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will signal the  Federal
Reserve  is in no hurry to slow monetary stimulus.  The currency ended two days of losses before Bernanke
testifies to Congress tomorrow. The U.S. central bank has been
buying $85 billion of assets per month while holding its short-term  interest-rate  target at almost zero. Bank of Canada
Governor Stephen Poloz will keep the benchmark interest rate at
1 percent tomorrow as he releases his inaugural monetary policy
report, according to a Bloomberg survey of 20 economists.  “The dollar’s on the back foot against everything because
people are just squaring up before Bernanke tomorrow,” said
 Greg Anderson , head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Bank
of Montreal, by phone from Toronto. “The Canadian dollar had
not performed nearly as well as other commodity currencies up
until 11 a.m. due to technical reasons. And then the technical
picture changed.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known, rose 0.6
percent to C$1.0369 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One
loonie buys 96.44 U.S. cents.  Anderson said the loonie strengthening past C$1.0400 per
U.S. dollar will mean further gains today.  Bond Market  Canada’s 10-year benchmark government bonds rose, pushing
the yield down one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
2.41 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
added eight cents to C$92.09.  The  Bank of Canada  will provide additional details on July
18 about a two-year debt sale scheduled for July 24.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, dropped 0.5
percent to $105.79 per barrel in New York and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks lost 0.4 percent.  Canadian  factory sales  rose in May on gains in chemicals
and metals while inventories fell from a record high, government
figures showed. Sales climbed 0.7 percent to C$48.6 billion
($46.7 billion) in May, leaving them 3.2 percent below their
level from 12 months earlier,  Statistics Canada  said today in
Ottawa. Economists  forecast  a 0.8 percent monthly increase,
according to the median of a Bloomberg survey with 15 responses.  Central Bank  The Bank of Canada’s interest-rate announcement tomorrow
will retain year-old language crafted by Poloz’s predecessor
 Mark Carney  that indicates the next move in the central bank’s
overnight policy rate will be upward, according to all but one
of 14 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  “The debate there is whether he shifts to a more neutral
stance or retains a slight hawkish bias, and I’d say the market
is pretty split on that,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency
strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia , by phone from Toronto. “In
terms of Canadian data, a slight miss in terms of the estimate
for manufacturing sales, but all-in-all better than last month.
But if you look at the broader trend it’s still flat overall.”  U.S. industrial production rose in June by the most in four
months, signaling manufacturing is improving heading into the
second half of the year and boosting bets the economy is getting
strong enough for the Fed to wind down economic stimulus this
year.  The loonie has gained 1.2 percent in the past three months
against nine developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The euro led gainers with
a 3.5 percent jump followed by the  U.S. dollar ’s 2.3 percent
increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  