-- Capital One Said in Talks to Sublease NYC Spaces From UBS
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-07-16T15:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/capital-one-said-in-talks-to-sublease-nyc-spaces-from-ubs.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  is in
talks to take about 250,000 square feet of offices at the UBS
Building on  Manhattan ’s Park Avenue, two people with knowledge
of the negotiations said.  The McLean, Virginia-based bank is expected to take most of
the 382,000 square feet (35,500 square meters) that Zurich-based
 UBS AG (UBSN)  had listed for sublease at 299 Park Ave., a 1.2 million-square-foot skyscraper, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are private. The two sides
have agreed to terms, one of the people said.  A deal would place Capital One, best known for its widely
advertised credit card, in the heart of Midtown’s financial
corridor among major New York-based banks. The building is
diagonally across from the headquarters of JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
and five blocks south of Citigroup Inc.’s main offices.  “One of their strategic objectives is to be viewed as a
full-service financial company and not just a credit-card
company,” David Albertazzi, a senior banking analyst at Boston-based Aite Group LLC, said in a telephone interview. “A strong
presence in the center of the financial world makes a
difference.”  Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank has spent more
than $28 billion on acquisitions since 2005 to build Capital One
into the ninth-largest U.S. lender by assets. Recent deals
include the 2012 purchases of ING Direct USA, an online bank,
and a portfolio of credit-card assets from HSBC Holdings Plc.  Credit Volume  Capital One was last year’s fifth-largest U.S. credit-card
issuer by volume of purchases, with $167 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The leader was  American Express Co. (AXP) , with
$462 billion. Capital One’s volume has grown 78 percent since
2009.  Capital One currently has offices at 90 Park Ave., south of
Grand Central Terminal.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, is scaling back its
offices in Manhattan as it seeks to cut costs. The company plans
to put most of its New York-area operations into 1285 Avenue of
the Americas, a 1.7 million-square-foot skyscraper six blocks
away, while maintaining its offices in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
Robert Alexander, regional chairman of CBRE Group Inc., said in
May. CBRE is representing UBS in the negotiations.  Alexander didn’t return two phone messages. Robert McGrath,
a CBRE spokesman, said he had no immediate comment.  Julie Rakes ,
a Capital One spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The Park Avenue tower is majority-owned and managed by
Fisher Brothers Realty Corp. UBS’s lease on its 510,000 square
feet in the building, which features a large red company logo in
its lobby, expires in 2018. Capital One is in talks with Fisher
Brothers on a direct lease so it can stay beyond the end of
UBS’s term, one of the people with knowledge of the matter said.  Jody Fisher, a spokesman for the landlord, said the company
declined to comment on the negotiations. He isn’t related to the
Fisher Brothers family. Nicholas Derasmo, a spokesman for
Cushman & Wakefield Inc., which is representing Capital One,
also declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  