-- CBA Sells First Australian Senior Bank Bonds in Two Months
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-07-16T06:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/cba-sells-first-australian-senior-bank-bonds-in-two-months-1-.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia  sold
A$1.25 billion ($1.15 billion) of four-year floating-rate notes,
a person familiar with the matter said, the first senior bank
bond issue in the lender’s home country in almost two months.  CBA sold the July 2017 paper to yield 85 basis points more
than the bank bill swap rate, according to the person, who asked
not to be identified because the terms are private.  Bond issuance in  Australia  last month slowed to the least
in a year and a half as the prospect the U.S. central bank may
pare record stimulus caused a global blowout in benchmark yields
and credit spreads. The last sale of senior bank debt in
Australia was on May 23, when Bank of Queensland issued A$325
million of bonds.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ’s A$1.2 billion sale of five-year notes on May 16 was the most recent senior transaction by
one of country’s four biggest lenders. That deal, which included
both fixed- and floating-rate notes, was priced to yield 78
basis points more than swaps.  Issuers abandoned the market after Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments about a possible reduction in asset
purchases sent borrowing costs soaring. Financial company bond
yields in Australia rose to 4.55 percent on June 24 from 3.90
percent on May 8, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Widening Spreads  The average yield premium for Australian bank paper over
the swap rate climbed to 130 basis points on July 2 from 102 at
the end of May, the least since February 2008. It has since
fallen back to 122.  While CBA is the first bank to venture back into the senior
market, there has been activity in the domestic hybrid market.
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. last week allocated
A$1 billion of subordinated hybrid notes, while Westpac Banking
Corp. is also offering subordinated debt, according to
statements from the lenders.  Sale opportunities for non-bank borrowers are also showing
signs of growth, with Perth Airport Pty selling A$150 million of
seven-year notes at 205 basis points more than the swap rate,
according to an e-mailed statement from joint sale manager
Westpac. The transaction is the local market’s first from a non-financial company since before Bernanke’s news conference on
June 19, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  