-- McDonald’s Takes on KFC to Burger King in Vietnam Entry
-- B y   J o h n   B o u d r e a u
-- 2013-07-16T10:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/mcdonald-s-takes-on-kfc-burger-king-in-planning-vietnam-entry.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  the world’s largest
restaurant chain, will open its first restaurant in  Vietnam  next
year, taking on earlier entrants such as  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  as it
seeks to profit from the country’s growing middle class.  Henry Nguyen, founder of Good Day Hospitality and managing
partner of IDG Ventures Vietnam, was awarded the license to
operate McDonald’s in the country, the company said in a
statement. Nguyen, who oversees $100 million invested in
technology, media, telecommunications and consumer companies in
Vietnam, is the son-in-law of Vietnam’s Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung.  Expansion in Vietnam would allow McDonald’s to capitalize
on an aspirational young population attracted to Western brands
and with money to spend. The company is late to the country’s
fast-food market, where Burger King, Yum’s KFC,  Pizza Hut , South
Korea’s Lotteria Co. and  Jollibee Foods Corp. (JFC)  of the Philippines
have a growing presence, said Pham Ngoc Bich, managing director
of Saigon Securities Inc.  “Economists typically view the entrance of the
multinational fast-food chain into  emerging markets  as a cachet
that heralds the flow of other Western brands, but McDonald’s is
no front-runner this time around,” Bich wrote today in a note
investors.  There is still room for McDonald’s, Bich said in an
interview.  Starbucks (SBUX) , which opened its first outlet in the
country earlier this year, has been swamped by eager consumers.  The first McDonald’s outlet is set to open in Ho Chi Minh
City early next year. The opening date will depend on a number
of factors, such as the pace of construction, Becca Hary,
McDonald’s spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “In the longer term, and based on the performance of this
initial location, future restaurants will be determined by
consumer demand for McDonald’s,” she said.  The  Oak Brook , Illinois-based restaurant chain said it
spent years looking for a partner in Vietnam before choosing
Nguyen.  More than 80 percent of McDonald’s restaurants are owned by
local operators, the company said. It has more than 34,500
outlets in 100-plus countries.  Nguyen, who as a teenager spent two summers working at
McDonald’s in the U.S., expects to eventually open outlets in
other major cities in Vietnam, such as Hanoi, Haiphong, Da Nang,
Can Tho, and Vung Tau.  McDonald’s is very deliberate about moving into new
markets, which is why the company did not come to Vietnam
sooner, he said in a phone interview. “They don’t ever want to
get anything wrong,’’ he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Boudreau in Hanoi at 
 jboudreau3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  