-- Cespedes Wins MLB Home Run Derby Two Years After Cuba Defection
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-16T04:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/cespedes-wins-mlb-home-run-derby-two-years-after-cuba-defection.html
Yoenis Cespedes of the Oakland
Athletics won Major League Baseball’s Home Run Derby, two years
after defecting from Cuba.  Cespedes, 27, slugged nine homers in the final round last
night to beat 20-year-old Bryce Harper of the Washington
Nationals, who had opened with eight. Cespedes flipped his bat
in celebration at home plate after his last blast, which was
estimated at 455 feet (139 meters) at Citi Field in New York.  The annual Home Run Derby is held on the eve of tonight’s
All-Star Game between the American and National leagues.  “This trophy will motivate me so things continue to go
well for me,” Cespedes, who wasn’t selected as an All-Star,
said through an interpreter. “I just want to thank the people
who believed in me, that thought I could play at this level, and
especially to my family, which is here in the stadium.”  Cespedes, an outfielder in his second major league season,
totaled 32 home runs over three rounds to become the first
Athletics player to win the Home Run Derby since Mark McGwire in
1992. A former member of the Cuban national team, Cespedes was
the second right-handed hitter to win the competition since
2005, joining Vladimir Guerrero in 2007.  Cespedes hit 17 home runs in the first round, tied for the
third most in derby history, trailing only the 28 hit by Josh Hamilton in 2008 and the 24 recorded by Bobby Abreu in 2005.
Twelve of those 17 homers hit by Cespedes were longer than 400
feet.  David Wright of the host New York Mets and Robinson Cano of
the New York Yankees both failed to advance past the opening
round. Wright, captain of the NL team, hit five homers and Cano,
the AL captain, had four.  Fielder Ousted  Prince Fielder of the Detroit Tigers, who last year won his
second Home Run Derby title, was ousted after hitting five home
runs in the first round, as was Pedro Alvarez of the Pittsburgh
Pirates, who finished with six.  Harper and Chris Davis of the Baltimore Orioles each hit
eight homers to advance to the second round, while Michael Cuddyer of the Colorado Rockies moved on with seven.  Cespedes and Harper reached the finals after recording the
highest combined totals over the first two rounds. Cespedes had
23 homers and Harper had 16, one more than Cuddyer. Davis, whose
37 homers at the All-Star break are the most in the majors, had
12 through two rounds.  Harper was the second-youngest player to participate in the
Home Run Derby, 39 days older than Ken Griffey Jr. was when he
was in it for the first time in 1990. Harper led off in the
final round and, with his father pitching to him, hit eight
homers before making 10 “outs” on any ball that was swung at
and failed to clear the outfield fence.  Cespedes followed and made only five outs before surpassing
Harper’s final-round total. Cespedes entered the home run derby
with no homers in his last 19 games for the A’s heading into the
All-Star break.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  