-- Chevron Shale Talk Makes YPF Best Performer: Buenos Aires Mover
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2013-07-16T20:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/chevron-shale-talk-makes-ypf-best-performer-buenos-aires-mover.html
YPF SA rose the most among major
Argentine stocks on speculation the state-run energy company
will sign the first binding partnership to develop shale oil and
natural gas since its nationalization a year ago.  The shares gained 3.5 percent to 137.50 pesos in  Buenos
Aires , the highest closing price since March last year.
Argentina’s benchmark index rose 1.4 percent.  YPF, the best performer this month among 15 global peers
tracked by Bloomberg, will sign today an accord with  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  in a ceremony to be attended by President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  and Chevron Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer John Watson, newspaper El Cronista reported, citing a
government official it didn’t identify. Yesterday the government
said it will offer energy companies incentives if they invest $1
billion or more over a five-year period.  “The stock is rallying on the Chevron agreement and the
government decree,” Carlos Aszpis, an equity strategist at
Schweber & Cia. Sociedad de Bolsa SA, said by telephone from
Buenos Aires. “There’s been a nice combination of headlines
driving the move.”  A definitive deal with Chevron, the world’s second-biggest
oil company, would help YPF tap the world’s second-largest shale
gas deposit and fourth-largest shale oil reservoir as the
country struggles to lift output and pare fuel imports. In a
preliminary arrangement, the ventures’s initial investments were
estimated at $1.5 billion.  Independence Goal  Watson will travel to  Argentina  to sign the deal between
July 15 and July 16, Jorge Sapag, governor of Neuquen province
where the Vaca Muerta shale formation is located, said on June
26. Jim Craig, a spokesman for Chevron, couldn’t immediately be
reached by phone for comment today. A YPF official who isn’t
authorized to speak publicly said he didn’t have any information
on when the agreement will be signed.  Fernandez’s government seized a 51 percent stake in YPF
from Spain’s  Repsol SA (REP)  in April 2012 to stem fuel imports that
doubled to $9.4 billion in 2011 and are expected to rise to as
much as $15 billion this year.  Chevron’s investment will help make Argentina energy
independent,  Ali Moshiri , Chevron’s head of  Latin America ,
 Middle East  and Africa, said May 16, after touring the shale
formation in southwestern Argentina.  Vaca Muerta, Spanish for dead cow, may hold at least 23
billion barrels of oil equivalent, according to a report by
independent auditor Ryder Scott released in February 2012 by
YPF.  YPF’s American depositary receipts rose 2.3 percent to
$16.27 in New York, the highest since Feb. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Buenos Aires at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  