-- Chevron $1.24 Billion Deal Leads YPF Post-Repsol Shale Hunt
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-07-17T20:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/chevron-signs-1-24-billion-shale-accord-with-argentina-s-ypf.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the world’s second-biggest oil company, signed the first agreement with Argentina’s
government since it nationalized  YPF SA (YPF)  in 2012 to help develop
shale oil and natural gas in Vaca Muerta.  YPF’s American depositary receipts rose 5.7 percent today
in New York after John Watson, Chevron’s chairman and chief
executive officer, and YPF CEO Miguel Galuccio signed the accord
late yesterday at YPF headquarters in Buenos Aires. The contract
to develop the world’s second-largest shale gas deposit and
fourth-largest shale oil reservoir finalizes terms for Chevron’s
initial $1.24 billion investment, which may reach as much as $15
billion. The partnership was first formed in December.  “Vaca Muerta is a world-class asset and fits perfectly in
our strong portfolio of unconventional resources,” Watson said
in a statement e-mailed by YPF. “It is consistent with our
strategic objective to enter attractive new areas early in the
process.”  Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s
government seized a 51 percent stake in YPF from Spain’s  Repsol
SA (REP)  in April 2012 to stem fuel imports that doubled to $9.4
billion in 2011 and are expected to rise to as much as $15
billion this year. Argentina said July 15 it will offer energy
companies incentives if they invest $1 billion or more over a
five-year period.  Price Target  YPF’s price target was raised to $17 from $13 by Deutsche
Bank AG, the Frankfurt-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement.  YPF rose  to $17.19 at the close, the highest since
Jan. 30, and traded at 456 times its three-month daily average
volume. Chevron gained 0.2 percent to $124.35.  The first phase of the venture between Chevron and YPF
calls for drilling 100 wells in a 5,000-acre tract. Daily
production is forecast to be 50,000 barrels of oil and 3 million
cubic meters of gas by 2017, they said in an Argentine
regulatory filing. The companies will be 50-50 partners in the
second stage, which requires drilling 1,500 wells, YPF said.  “This partnership is strategic for the company and for
Argentina,” Galuccio said in the statement. “We are putting
into  production  a resource that can change the energy future of
our country.”  Chevron’s investment will help make Argentina energy
independent,  Ali Moshiri , Chevron’s head of Latin America,
Middle East and  Africa , said May 16, after touring the shale
formation in southwestern Argentina.  Production Opportunity  Vaca Muerta, Spanish for dead cow, may hold at least 23
billion barrels of oil equivalent, according to a report by
independent auditor Ryder Scott released in February 2012 by
YPF. Argentina holds the world’s second-largest shale gas
reserves and the fourth-largest for shale oil, according to U.S.
Energy Information Administration data.  Chevron Argentina is currently producing an average of
21,000 barrels of crude and 4 million cubic feet of gas in
Neuquen Basin, the San Ramon, California-based company said
yesterday in a separate statement.  The shale investment “provides Chevron with a new
opportunity to profitably grow production beyond our 2017
production target of 3.3 million barrels per day,” George Kirkland, vice chairman of Chevron, said in the statement.  Argentina’s Supreme Court on June 4 revoked the seizure of
Chevron’s assets in the country, lifting an embargo that had
threatened to derail plans with YPF. The lawsuit originated from
a $19 billion award for pollution in Ecuador.  Bargaining ‘Carrots’  YPF has also signed preliminary Vaca Muerta development
accords with Dow Chemical Co., Corp. America run by Argentine
billionaire Eduardo Eurnekian and Bridas Corp., a joint venture
of the billionaire Bulgheroni brothers and China’s  CNOOC Ltd. (883)   Energy companies that meet Argentina’s $1 billion, 5-year
investment requirements will be able to sell 20 percent of
production in international markets without paying export taxes
and keep export revenue from 20 percent of output outside of
Argentina, according to a government decree on July 15.  Companies will also be able to sell oil and gas slated for
export in the domestic market at international prices if the
local supply is insufficient, Argentina’s government said. Those
qualifying for the plan will also be granted foreign currency
access, it said.  “This time around, the authorities appear to have brought
‘carrots’ (economics) to the bargaining table instead of
sticks,” Barclays analysts Sebastian Vargas and Alejandro Grisanti said yesterday in a note to clients.  Repsol Negotiations  The analysts also said they think it “crucial” that the
government follow through on negotiations with Repsol.  Repsol, based in  Madrid , on June 25 rejected an offer by
the Argentine government meant as compensation for YPF’s
expropriation. Repsol was offered a 47 percent stake in a joint
venture in Vaca Muerta valued by Argentina at $3.5 billion, as
well as $1.5 billion for development, according to a regulatory
filing in Spain.  Repsol has filed numerous lawsuits including ones in Madrid
and New York seeking compensation of $10.5 billion for the
seizure.  YPF, which has depended solely on the local debt market for
financing in pesos, has been shut out of international capital
markets because of double-digit borrowing costs for Argentine
issuers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  