-- Chevron Judge Denies Ecuadoreans’ Request for Trial Delay
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-07-17T00:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/chevron-judge-denies-ecuadoreans-request-for-trial-delay.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s civil racketeering
case against Ecuadoreans it accuses of fabricating evidence to
win a $19 billion verdict in a pollution lawsuit will go to
trial on Oct. 15, a judge said in rejecting a defense request
for a delay.  Chevron sued Ecuadoreans who had earlier claimed the  San
Ramon , California-based company was responsible for pollution in
the Amazon rainforest. The company said the Ecuadoreans and
their New York-based lawyer, Steven Donziger, made up evidence
in the initial case. The trial will be held in  Manhattan  federal
court.  U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan today denied Donziger’s
request to delay the trial in order to find a new attorney.
Kaplan said Donziger has had four months to hire a new lawyer
since his prior counsel, John Keker, asked to leave the case
because he hadn’t been paid.  “It is unclear whether he has money to pay counsel but
chooses not to spend it, or whether he in fact does not have”
money, Kaplan said of Donziger in a written opinion. Donziger
“has offered no competent evidence of his financial
situation,” the judge said.  Chevron was ordered by an Ecuadorean court in 2011 to pay
as much as $18.2 billion in damages for Texaco’s alleged dumping
of toxic drilling waste in the jungle from 1964 to about 1992.
Chevron acquired Texaco in 2000.  $19 Billion  The judgment came in an 18-year lawsuit decided by a judge
in  Lago Agrio , a provincial capital near the Colombian border.
With interest, the judgment is now worth $19 billion.  Chevron denied wrongdoing, saying Texaco cleaned up its
share of pollution at  oil fields  that were later taken over
PetroEcuador, Ecuador’s state-owned oil company. Chevron says it
was released from liability by an agreement between Texaco and
Ecuador.  In denying the defense request to postpone the October
trial, Kaplan today said the Ecuadorean plaintiffs are still
financing litigation in courts around the world.  Donziger and the plaintiffs claim they “are out of
money,” Kaplan said. “To the contrary, the record establishes
that they have raised millions of dollars in exchange for shares
of any recovery.”  Claims Influence  Chevron accuses Donziger of improperly influencing a court
expert whose findings were relied upon by the judge in  Ecuador .  Donziger denies wrongdoing, and plaintiffs in the pollution
case said the company is attacking him to avoid paying damages.  Bill Hamilton of Fenton Communications, a spokesman for the
Ecuadorean plaintiffs, declined to comment on Kaplan’s ruling.  “We look forward to detailing the extent of fraud and
misconduct carried out by the plaintiffs and their U.S.-based
lawyers at trial in October,” Morgan Crinklaw, a Chevron
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. ’  The racketeering case is Chevron v. Donziger, 1:11-cv-00691, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan). The case in Ecuador is Aquinda v. Chevron,
002-2003, Superior Court of Nueva Loja, Lago Agrio, Ecuador.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 