-- Chicago Parents Ask Court to Delay Plan to Close Schools
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-07-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/chicago-parents-ask-court-to-delay-plan-to-close-schools.html
Chicago  parents are asking a U.S.
judge to delay for at least one year, if not permanently, the
city Board of Education’s plans to close 49 public schools.  The parents, who filed two separate lawsuits against the
nation’s third-largest school district in May, claim the
closings will adversely affect their children and more than
5,000 others who are enrolled in special-education programs and
receive other individualized attention and counseling.  Their bid for an order preventing what they called “the
largest school closing in the history of American public
education” is scheduled to be considered by U.S. District Judge
John Z. Lee starting today in Chicago.  “The closings will do significantly more harm to children
with disabilities than to children without such disabilities and
are more likely to cause academic, developmental and emotional
setbacks for such children,” the parents of three children --
all of whom are black, two of whom have disabilities -- said in
a court filing.  Those parents also contend the Board of Education’s plan
discriminates against black children and should be scrapped.  Suing separately, four more students’ parents said the
process is moving too fast for disabled students with
individualized education programs and should be delayed for a
year.  Third-Biggest City  Chicago, with a population of about 2.7 million, is the
third-biggest U.S. city. Its public school system serves 404,000
students attending 681 schools, according to the Chicago Public
Schools  website .  Supported by Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , the stated goal of the
initiative announced in March is to eliminate schools the city
has identified as “underutilized.”  “By consolidating these schools we can focus on safely
getting every child into a better-performing school close to
their home,” CPS Chief Executive Officer Barbara Byrd-Bennett,
who is a defendant in each case, said of the plan in a  statement 
on March 21.  The school board and the city have asked Lee to throw out
both complaints.  “Closing 49 underutilized elementary schools allows the
Board of Education of the city of Chicago to better focus
resources and to provide students with a higher-quality
education,” the school system said in a May 29 court filing.  Negative Impact  School lawyers have argued in both cases that the plan has
had no greater negative impact on students with disabilities
than on students without them.  The judge on July 9 granted a request to dismiss the city
from both cases, concluding the school board, not the
municipality, is the responsible party.  “The mayor’s voice may stand out among the many other
voices vying for the board’s ear,” Lee said. “But strong
language in a press release from the city’s top elected official
addressing a topic that has been at the center of public debate
fails to provide the court with sufficient facts to raise a
reasonable inference that the board has abdicated to the city
its statutory responsibilities.”  The judge has set aside four days for the proceeding and
has and called for post-hearing briefs, the last of which is due
by Aug. 7.  The first case is McDaniel v. Board of Education of the
City of Chicago, 13-cv-03624, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of  Illinois  (Chicago). The second case is Swan v. Board
of Education of the City of Chicago, 13-cv-03623, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  