-- China Swaps Snap Eight-Day Gain on Outlook for Further Slowdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-16T03:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/china-swaps-snap-eight-day-gain-on-outlook-for-further-slowdown.html
China ’s five-year  interest-rate
swaps  dropped, halting an eight-day gain, on speculation the
central bank will refrain from curbing money supply as the
economy slows.  The People’s Bank of China didn’t conduct any repurchase
agreement operations today, which drain funds from the banking
system, according to a trader required to bid at the auctions.
Interbank money-market rates have retreated since a cash squeeze
in June drove rates to record highs. Official data showed
yesterday that second-quarter growth slowed to 7.5 percent from
7.7 percent, prompting Standard Chartered Plc to lower forecasts.  “The expectation is that China’s growth may have a
sequential slowdown in the coming quarters so the central bank
will unlikely tighten monetary policy,” said Becky Liu, a Hong
Kong-based rates strategist at Standard Chartered.  The five-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined three
basis points to 3.98 percent as of 10:47 a.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard Chartered reduced its 2013 growth forecast to 7.5
percent from 7.7 percent and the 2014 estimate to 7.2 percent,
compared with 7.5 percent. China’s State Council may lay out
economic plans for the second half tomorrow, the 21st Century
Business Herald reported today, without saying where it got the
information.  The one-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 27 basis points, or 0.27
percentage point, to 3.02 percent, according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It
reached 3 percent earlier, the lowest level since May 20.  --Judy Chen. Editors: Simon Harvey, Robin Ganguly  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 