-- China Developers Fall as Easing Hopes Diminish: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-16T07:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/china-developers-fall-as-easing-hopes-diminish-shanghai-mover.html
Chinese property stocks fell after
June data damped market expectations of a loosening in the
government’s real estate curbs and a media report saying a third
Chinese city may introduce property-tax trials.  The  gauge  tracking Shanghai-listed developers was 0.1
percent lower at the close of trading, the only decline among
the five sub-industry groups of the benchmark Shanghai Composite
Index.  Beijing Capital Development Co. (600376)  fell 1 percent and
 Gemdale Corp. (600383)  dropped 1 percent.  China ’s home sales jumped 24 percent in June from the
previous month, the biggest monthly gain this year, data from
the National Bureau of Statistics showed yesterday. Hangzhou, in
the country’s east, may become the third city after Shanghai and
Chongqing to start property-tax trials, the China Securities
newspaper reported yesterday, without saying where it got the
information.  “Property data were fairly good yesterday, indicating
there’s no need to loosen the restrictions,” Luo Yu, a
Shanghai-based analyst at advisory CEBM Group, said, citing
speculation that policy makers may relax the curbs to avoid
aggravating an economic slowdown. “The market is correcting
from the previous policy expectations” that fueled a rebound in
property stocks.  The property gauge has rallied 5.2 percent since June 28,
when 21st Century Business Herald reported that companies with
property-related businesses may be able to apply to raise funds
and restructure without spinning off those businesses, sparking
speculation that refinancing limits for developers may be eased.  China’s economy  slowed for a second quarter, adding to
risks that the government will miss its expansion target as
Premier Li Keqiang reins in a credit boom.  China may increase the number of trial cities for the
property tax, Fan Cheuk Wan, head of research for the Asia-Pacific region, private banking and  wealth management  at Credit
Suisse Group AG, said at a briefing in  Hong Kong  today. The levy
is not expected to have a big impact on the  property market  in
the second half, Fan said.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  