-- China to Avoid ‘Wide Fluctuations’ in Economy, Li Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-16T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/china-to-avoid-wide-fluctuations-in-economy-li-says.html
Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  said the
nation will seek to keep economic growth, employment and
inflation within limits, avoiding “wide fluctuations,” without
elaborating on what the government deems acceptable.  China  should also develop a “scientific macroeconomic
policy framework” to offer markets “stable predictability,”
Li told a forum of advisers and executives yesterday, according
to a summary of the event published on the government’s website.  Li’s comments, the first made public since the National
Bureau of Statistics reported that economic growth slowed for a
second quarter, signal he won’t let expansion slow too much,
without indicating any immediate plans for stimulus. Gross
domestic product rose 7.5 percent in the April-to-June period
from a year earlier, putting at risk the official full-year
target for the same pace.  Last month, Li’s government engineered a  stress test  on
banks that prompted the nation’s broadest measure of  credit  to
fall to a 14-month low in an interbank cash squeeze. China’s
lack of transparency became a cause of worldwide concern as it
rocked bond and commodity markets and helped wipe out $4.5
trillion in global equity value.  While China should continue restructuring its economy to
promote sustainable growth, some economic fluctuation is
“objectively inevitable,” Li said. China will focus on
restructuring when the economy runs within the limits of growth
and inflation, shifting to stabilizing growth or preventing
inflation when those limits are approached, Li said.  Policy Direction  Li said China shouldn’t change policy direction because of
short-term changes in economic indicators, losing rare
opportunities to restructure, nor should it lack alertness and
preparedness in case the economy slides out of a “reasonable”
range or has “large swings.”  Li’s comments build on his remarks last week that the
government should keep restructuring the economy as long as
growth, employment and inflation stay within limits he didn’t
specify.  Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  added to confusion over the
government’s target this year by saying last week that growth as
low as 6.5 percent may be tolerable in the future. While the
government in March set a 2013  growth  goal of 7.5 percent, Lou
said he’s confident 7 percent can be achieved this year.  The official Xinhua News Agency later amended its English-language report on Lou to say there’s no doubt that
China can achieve this year’s growth target of 7.5 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Monahan at 
 amonahan@bloomberg.net  