-- China’s Stocks Rise as Solar, Technology Shares Extend Rallies
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-16T07:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/china-s-stock-futures-fall-signaling-declines-for-indexes.html
China’s stocks  rose for the fifth
time in six days as solar and technology companies extended a
rally on government measures to support the industries,
overshadowing a decline for property developers.  Xi’an LONGi Silicon Materials Co. jumped 10 percent after
China said it plans to increase fivefold its installed solar
capacity. BOE Technology Group Co. and Sanan Optoelectronics Co.
led technology companies to the biggest gain among industry
groups.  Hangzhou Binjiang Real Estate Group Co. (002244)  dropped 1.2
percent after the China Securities Journal said Hangzhou city
may start a property tax trial.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 0.3 percent to 2,065.72
at the close, with trading volumes 2.1 percent higher than the
30-day average. The CSI 300 Index rose 0.5 percent to 2,317.85
and the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  added 0.1 percent. The
Bloomberg China-US 55 Index added 1 percent yesterday.  “Smaller companies and thematic investments are the
highlights of the market especially those that get support from
the government,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at West China
Securities Co. “The economy is lackluster and growth may trend
down further. The expansion of a property tax could add more
uncertainty to the already weak economic fundamentals.”  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 9 percent this year as
data from industrial production to exports pointed to a slowdown
in the economy and as money-market rates reached record highs
last month. The measure trades at 8.5 times 12-month projected
profit after valuations fell in June to the lowest level in at
least five years, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Slowing Growth  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and Standard Chartered Plc
today cut their growth forecasts for the Chinese economy this
year to 7.6 percent and 7.5 percent respectively. The lower
targets come a day after the government reported growth slowed
to 7.5 percent in the second quarter from the previous quarter’s
7.7 percent expansion.  China  plans to boost technology and speed up the
development of less energy-intensive and polluting industries as
part of a drive to upgrade the structure of the economy and
shift growth toward domestic demand, according to a July 12
statement on the central government website. Construction and
upgrading of Internet and communications infrastructure will be
accelerated, the statement said.  Information technology and energy conservation are the two
industries “chosen for stabilizing growth,” Bank of America
Corp.’s China economist Ting Lu wrote in a report dated
yesterday. “At present the government still focuses on industry
policies instead of more fundamental structural reforms, in line
with our view that markets must be patient in waiting for real
institutional reforms.”  Industry Policies  The State Council may release economic plans for the second
half tomorrow, the 21st Century Business Herald reported today,
without saying where it got the information.  Zhejiang Sunflower Light Energy Science & Technology Co. (300111) 
surged 2.5 percent to 12.11  yuan , adding to yesterday’s 2.9
percent rally. Xi’an LONGi jumped for a fifth day, adding 1.05
yuan to 11.55 yuan. Risen Energy Co. climbed 7.8 percent to 7.23
yuan.  China, the world’s biggest maker of solar panels, plans to
add 10 gigawatts of solar power a year during the next three
years, according to a statement from the State Council posted on
the government’s website yesterday. The plan would increase the
nation’s solar installed capacity fivefold to more than 35
gigawatts by 2015.  Technology Stocks  A measure of  technology stocks  was the best performing
industry group for a second day, gaining 1.8 percent.  BOE, China’s biggest maker of liquid-cystal-display panels,
jumped 5.3 percent to 2.39 yuan, adding to yesterday’s 1.8
percent advance. The company on July 14 estimated it will swing
to a first-half net profit of up to 860 million yuan ($140
million) from a loss the same time last year. Sanan
Optoelectronics gained 5.8 percent to 20.50 yuan.  Hangzhou Binjiang lost 1.2 percent to 8.95 yuan. Hangzhou
may be the third city after Shanghai and Chongqing to start a
property tax trial in China, the China Securities Journal
reported yesterday, without saying where it got the information.  Three calls to the Hangzhou city government news office
went unanswered today. Government data yesterday showed China’s
 home sales  rose 24 percent in June, the biggest monthly gain
this year, signaling that the government’s latest property
measures are failing to deter buyers.  PetroChina Co. and China Petroleum and Chemical Corp. led a
measure of energy companies to the biggest decline among CSI
300 industry groups. PetroChina fell 1.4 percent to 7.99 yuan,
the most in three weeks. Sinopec,  Asia ’s biggest refiner,
declined 1.3 percent to 4.50 yuan.  Crude oil has leaked from a cracked pipeline in the
Changqing oilfield owned by PetroChina in the northwestern
province of Shaanxi, the  Securities Times  reported, citing local
village residents. Changqing is PetroChina’s biggest field in
China, producing about 50 million metric tons of oil and gas a
year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  