-- Coal India Executives Threaten to Strike Demanding Higher Pay
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-07-16T09:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/coal-india-executives-threaten-to-strike-demanding-higher-pay.html
Executives at  Coal India Ltd. (COAL)  are
seeking an increase in pay and overdue performance-related
bonuses, failing which they plan to start a protest next month
and eventually go on an indefinite strike.  Executives will wear black badges to work on Aug. 5, go on
mass leave on Sept. 24 and then start an indefinite strike, said
Damodar Banerjee, treasurer at the Coal Mines Officers
Association of  India . The executives’ actions will halt
production and dispatch of coal from the company’s mines, he
said. The association sent the strike notice to the state-owned
company’s management and government ministries on June 12.  Kolkata-based Coal India’s $10.6 billion cash pile has
prompted investors and employees to demand higher payouts. The
world’s biggest coal producer mines an average 1.2 million
metric tons of coal daily.  Coal India   shares  rose 0.5 percent to
293.70 rupees as of 2.35 p.m. in Mumbai. The shares have
declined 17 percent this year, compared with a 2.3 percent gain
in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex.  “We are doing our best to resolve the issues, especially
the demand for payment of performance-related payments,” Coal
India’s Personnel Director R. Mohan Das said in a phone
interview.  Performance-related bonuses, due for the past six years and
amounting to about 9.5 billion rupees ($160 million) have not
been paid to Coal India’s 19,000 executives, Mohan Das said. The
officers’ association has asked for a payment of 8.5 percent
compounded interest on the arrears. Mohan Das said no interest
will be paid.  Government rules prohibit payment of performance bonuses to
employees of a loss-making company. Coal India executives who
work for unprofitable units were thus ineligible to receive the
payments. The parent’s management withheld bonuses from all
executives to treat them at par while the issue is resolved.  The company’s non-executive workers got a wage increase
last year and struck work for a day in 2011 to win higher
festival bonuses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  