-- Commodities Rise to Highest in 14 Weeks as Crops, Metals Advance
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-07-16T21:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/commodities-rise-to-highest-in-14-weeks-as-crops-metals-advance.html
Commodities jumped to a 14-week high
as crop conditions declined and prospects improved for raw-material demand in the U.S. and China, the world’s largest
consumers of everything from corn and oil to pork and copper.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
rose 0.2 percent to settle at 645.99 at 3:43 p.m. in  New York ,
after reaching 648.91, the highest since April 3. Soybeans and
corn climbed more than 1.4 percent, cocoa jumped 3.1 percent and
copper increased 1.3 percent. The GSCI has risen 5.7 percent
this month, almost erasing its loss for the year.  Hot weather in the U.S. Midwest eroded conditions in the
past week of corn and soybean crops that the government
predicted July 11 would be the biggest ever this year. Copper
and nickel, down more than 13 percent this year before today as
global growth slowed, rebounded on gains in U.S. manufacturing
and bets that China will take steps to boost its economy. The
dollar also has dropped from a three-year high on July 8,
boosting the appeal of raw materials priced in the currency.  “The fact that a lot of commodities have already priced in
stagnation may bode well,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market
strategist at Archer Financial Inc. in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. “You’re not going to have the tremendous
growth we saw in the past 10 years in commodities, but the
skepticism may have gotten overdone, and there are individual
commodities that are still worthwhile.”  About 66 percent of the U.S. corn crop, the world’s
largest, was in good or excellent  condition  as of July 14, down
from 68 percent a week earlier, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said yesterday. About 16 percent of plants reached
the silking stage, critical for determining yields, compared
with 35 percent on average the previous five years.  Economic Growth  Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities in June
climbed 0.3 percent, the most in four months, a Federal Reserve
report showed today. The 21st Century Business Herald reported
that  China ’s cabinet may lay out economic plans tomorrow for the
second half. The Asian nation is the world’s biggest user of
industrial metals, followed by the U.S.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the
performance of 10 currencies and rallied as much as 7.1 percent
this year, has dropped 2.5 percent since reaching a three-year
high on July 8. Sixteen of the 24 commodities tracked by the
GSCI rose today.  Prices also gained after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  last week called for continuing stimulus “for the
foreseeable future,” bolstering prospects for low  interest 
rates that fueled raw-material demand over the past five years.  “Investors recognize that the Fed will remain highly
accommodative, even if their tactics change,”  Scott Gardner ,
who helps manage $400 million at Verdmont Capital SA in Panama
City, said in a telephone interview. “With modest inflation in
the system, the Fed can rationalize a continuation of its pro-growth policies and the strength in  oil prices  also attracts
people to the commodity sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  