-- Commerzbank Gains After Report Santander Interested in Stake
-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-07-16T08:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/commerzbank-gains-after-report-santander-interested-in-stake.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest bank, rose in Frankfurt trading after Die Welt reported
that Spain’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  might be interested in buying a
stake.  Commerzbank climbed as much as 2.8 percent and was 1.6
percent higher at 6.35 euros at 10:28 a.m. Gains for the past
two days were 6.3 percent and valued the company at 7.2 billion
euros ($9.4 billion).  Santander “has cast an eye” on the German lender, Die
Welt said citing unidentified market participants. The Madrid-based company is one of the few banks that could “immediately”
buy a majority stake, though may be dissuaded by Commerzbank’s
non-performing shipping and mortgage loans, the newspaper said.  Nils Happich, a spokesman for Commerzbank, declined to
comment on the report. A spokeswoman for Santander, who asked
not to be named in line with company policy, declined to
comment.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  spoke with  UBS
AG (UBSN)  Chairman  Axel Weber  as part of a plan to judge interest among
foreign banks in buying a stake, Focus magazine said at the
weekend. Marco Semmelmann, spokesman for the Finance Ministry,
declined to comment on the Focus report. It isn’t clear when the
government might sell its 17 percent stake in the lender, he
said.  Commerzbank got a 18.2 billion-euro state bailout in 2009
and carried out its fifth capital increase in four years in May
as soured shipping and real estate assets weighed on its
profitability.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in London at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Bentley in Frankfurt at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  