-- Copper Rises on U.S. Factory Gains, China Stimulus Bets
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-07-16T18:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/copper-advances-before-figures-on-u-s-industrial-production.html
Copper futures rose for the first
time in three days on gains in U.S. manufacturing and
speculation that  China  may take steps to boost its economy.  Output at factories, mines and utilities in June climbed
0.3 percent, the most in four months, a Federal Reserve report
showed today. The 21st Century Business Herald reported that
China’s cabinet may lay out economic plans tomorrow for the
second half. The Asian nation is the world’s biggest user of
industrial metals, followed by the U.S.  “Copper was already rising ahead of the industrial-production numbers, and China may be slowing, but there’s still
demand there,”  Bart Melek , the head of commodity strategy at TD
Securities in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “I don’t
think the government is going to allow  China’s economy  to slump
materially.”  On the Comex in New York, copper futures for September
delivery rose 1.3 percent to settle at $3.1865 a pound at 1:18
p.m. The metal fell 1 percent in the two previous sessions.  Manufacturing, which accounts for 12 percent of the  U.S.
economy , increased 0.3 percent in June, the Fed data showed.
Economists projected a 0.2 percent increase, according to the
median in a Bloomberg survey.  A report yesterday showed that economic growth slowed for
the ninth time in 10 quarters in China. Today, equities rose for
the fifth time in six sessions as solar and technology companies
extended a rally on government measures to support the
industries.  Orders to remove copper from warehouses monitored by the
London Metal Exchange increased 0.9 percent to 336,475 metric
tons, ending a 12-session slide, the longest decline in 13
months.  Copper for delivery in three months gained 1.2 percent to
$6,998 a ton ($3.17 a pound) on the LME. Aluminum, tin, lead and
nickel rose, while zinc fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  