-- Corn, Soybeans Rise on Hot-Weather Outlook, Crop Erosion
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-07-16T19:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/corn-rallies-on-signs-of-increased-demand-crop-ratings-decline.html
Corn and soybean futures rose the
most in a week on speculation that hot, dry weather in the next
six to 10 days will erode U.S. crop conditions that unexpectedly
deteriorated last week. Wheat settled unchanged.  Dry conditions will cover most growing areas, according to
MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . Last year, the
U.S. was the world’s biggest exporter of soybeans and corn.
About 66 percent of the grain was  rated  good or excellent as of
July 14, down from 68 percent a week earlier, and 65 percent of
the oilseed crop got the top ratings, down two percentage
points, government data showed yesterday.  “We’re starting to get into a time period where
pollination is going to start, so that’s why the weather is
critical” for corn, Larry Glenn, an analyst at Frontier Ag in
Quinter,  Kansas , said in a telephone interview. “We’re starting
to build in some weather premium.”  Corn futures for December delivery rose 1.4 percent to
settle at $5.1075 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade. Soybeans futures for November delivery advanced 1.8
percent to $12.8625 a bushel. Gains by both crop contracts were
their biggest since July 9.  Corn is the largest U.S. crop, followed by soybeans, hay
and wheat, government data show.  Last week, 16 percent of corn reached the silking  stage ,
critical for determining yields, compared with 35 percent on
average in the past five years, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said yesterday.  Wheat futures for September delivery was unchanged at
$6.695 a bushel, after gaining as much as 1.8 percent.  About 70 percent of the U.S. spring-wheat crop in good or
excellent condition as of July 14, down from 72 percent a week
earlier, government data show. About 67 percent of winter crops
were harvested, compared with 81 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  