-- Corruption-Rocked Rhode Island Tops Public Integrity List
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-07-16T05:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/corruption-rocked-rhode-island-tops-public-integrity-list.html
Rhode Island,  New Jersey  and
Illinois, three U.S. states notorious for crooked politics in
the past, lead a survey ranking the soundness of their
anticorruption and transparency laws.  The Better Government Association, a Chicago-based
nonprofit organization that identifies waste and inefficiency,
said those states had the toughest rules in four areas: freedom
of information, public meetings, conflict of interest and
whistle-blower protection.  The results reflected a poor collective performance, with
all states averaging 55 percent on a 100-point scale. The study
identified a “reality gap” between laws and enforcement, and
suggested that states with the worst reputations simply had more
room to improve. While they scored highest, all three top-ranked
states rated barely passing grades.  “Our 50 states are failing the basic test of integrity,”
Andy Shaw, president and chief executive officer of the group,
said by e-mail. “Even the states with the highest scores are
below 70 percent.”  Rounding out the 10 with the strongest laws were  Nebraska ,
 California , Louisiana,  Texas ,  Washington ,  Kentucky  and  Arkansas ,
according to the study.  “States with the worst reputations and sorriest histories
of political corruption face the most public pressure to clean
up their acts, so they pass new laws and strengthen old ones to
create a framework of integrity,” the group said in the report.
“That doesn’t mean that all of the public officials in those
states are following the new rules or obeying the new laws.”  Montana Last  Montana  ranked last, scoring 28 percent, perhaps an
indication that it and other low-ranked states may not have
“experienced rampant political corruption and, as a result,
they haven’t felt the need to pass tough laws,” according to
the study.  The report, the association’s third and its most recent
since 2008, reflected laws on the books as of December 2012. Its
measures included response time to public-records requests,
public-meeting procedures, financial disclosure for elected
officials and protection for employees who identify dangerous or
illegal working conditions.  The group said “corruption,” and not “integrity,” was
the word probably most associated with the leading finishers,
“because of the sheer volume of high-visibility indictments,
trials and convictions of their top public officials.”  Rhode Island  was declared “for sale” by muckraking
journalist Lincoln Steffens in a 1905 McClure’s magazine  article 
that documented a system of bribery and voter manipulation.  ‘Bid Rig’  More recently, ex-Governor Edward DiPrete, a Republican, in
1998 pleaded guilty to corruption for taking bribes from
contractors. Vincent “Buddy” Cianci, who twice resigned as
Providence mayor -- in 1990, after a felony assault conviction,
and in 2002, after a racketeering conviction -- told WPRI.com in
March that he wouldn’t rule out another run next year.  In 2009, a federal sting called Operation Bid Rig led to
the arrests of 44 defendants in New York and New Jersey, many of
them elected or appointed public officials. Among the  New
Jerseyans  who were convicted or pleaded guilty were two mayors
and a former assemblyman.  In Illinois, ex-Governor  Rod Blagojevich , a Democrat
serving 14 years in prison for corruption, yesterday filed an
appeal of his conviction and sentence. Blagojevich argued he was
prejudiced by exclusion of evidence and “one-sided and
erroneous evidentiary rulings,” of the lower court judge.  Republican George Ryan, Blagojevich’s predecessor, ended a
prison sentence for corruption on his release from home
confinement this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  