-- Costa Concordia Hearings to Draw Hundreds of Witnesses
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-07-17T15:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/costa-concordia-captain-s-trial-to-draw-witnesses.html
Hundreds of witnesses may be called
to testify in the Italian trial of the captain of the wrecked
Costa Concordia’s cruise liner, as salvage crews rush to remove
the wreckage by the end of summer.  The trial, which started July 9 and was immediately
adjourned to today because of a lawyers’ strike, is taking place
in the Tuscan town of Grosseto, at Teatro Moderno, a 1,000-seat
theater converted into a temporary criminal court. About 250
plaintiffs will be involved in the trial, including the Italian
government and the island of Giglio, where the ship, owned by
 Carnival Corp (CCL) ’s Costa Crociere SpA Italian unit, rammed into
rocks on Jan. 13, 2012, killing 32 people.  The Concordia’s Captain Francesco Schettino, 52, the only
defendant in the trial, was indicted on May 22 on charges
including manslaughter and abandoning the ship while many of the
4,200 passengers and crew were still on board. Schettino, who
has always denied any wrongdoing, saying his actions saved
lives, faces as many as 20 years in jail if convicted, according
to prosecutor Francesco Verusio.  Schettino’s defense team requested today a plea bargain for
a jail sentence of three years and five months. The request was
rejected by prosecutors, daily la Repubblica reported on its
website.  Removal Operations  After 18 months, the Costa Concordia still lies on its side
outside Giglio harbor, partly submerged, as a removal plan has
fallen behind schedule. About 500 workers and 30 vessels are
 deployed  in the removal operations and are preparing the
righting of the ship before it’s towed to a port before another
winter.  The trial needs to ascertain the “real responsibilities”
beside the captain’s, Schettino’s lawyer Francesco Pepe said by
phone July 8. He said on SkyTG24 on July 9 that the prosecutor
request for 20 years jail is “disproportionate” and reiterated
the captain’s defense that he didn’t abandon the ship. He fell
from the tilting cruise liner during the evacuation, Pepe said.  “Schettino is not the only one responsible,” Daniele
Bocciolini, one of the plaintiffs’ lawyers, said July 9 on
SkyTG24. “I expect justice will be done.” Plaintiffs are
allowed in Italian criminal trials as damaged parties.  Plea Bargains  Five other defendants including Schettino’s first officer
Ciro Ambrosio and Roberto Ferrarini, head of Costa Crociere’s
crisis unit at the time, have sought plea bargains for short
prison sentences, and their hearing will be held on July 20.
Genoa, Italy-based Costa Crociere agreed in April to pay a 1
million-euro ($1.31 million) fine for violations of the Italian
administrative responsibility law.  Costa Crociere, which remains a plaintiff in the trial,
settled claims with more than 80 percent of passengers as of May
14. The plea bargains don’t put the innocence of its staff in
doubt, the company said in a statement that day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  