-- Crude Falls First Time in Three Days as Equities Fall
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-07-16T21:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/crude-rises-for-third-day-as-stockpiles-seen-shrinking.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
for the first time in three days as U.S. stocks declined and
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City President Esther George said
the central bank should taper its asset-buying soon.  Futures dropped 0.3 percent as the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index snapped the longest rally since January.George, who has
consistently voted this year against record stimulus, said in an
interview with Fox Business Network that the Fed should reduce
the $85 billion in monthly bond buying. Crude also slipped as
technical indicators signaled recent rallies were excessive.  “The market is moving with the equities,” said Bill Baruch, a senior market strategist at commodity trading firm
Iitrader.com in  Chicago . “If there is any signs of Fed
curtailing, people may become nervous. There is a lot of profit-taking going on.”  WTI for August delivery slid 32 cents to settle at $106 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It reached $107.45
on July 11, the highest intraday level since March 27, 2012. The
volume of all futures traded was 2.4 percent above the 100-day
average for the time of day.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  was said to report crude stockpiles dropped 2.6
million barrels last week, according to a person familiar with
the report. The August contract fell 50 cents to $105.82 at 4:47
p.m. in electronic trading on the Nymex, unchanged from the
price just before the report was released at 4:30 p.m.  Brent Rises  Brent for August settlement rose 31 cents, or 0.3 percent,
to $109.40 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The contract expired today. The more active September
futures climbed 6 cent to $108.14. Volume was 13 percent below
the 100-day average. Brent’s premium over WTI widened to $3.40
from the previous day’s $2.77.  The S&P index dropped for the first time in nine days,
slipping 0.4 percent, after George said the Fed should “begin
to adjust those purchases” of Treasuries and mortgage-backed
securities. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to speak
before Congress tomorrow.  The U.S., the biggest oil-consuming country, accounted for
a fifth of world’s oil consumption last year, according to BP
Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  WTI’s relative strength index was 71.1 today, down from
72.8 yesterday. Some investors start selling contracts when the
reading rises above 70, a threshold that indicates to some
traders that a commodity is poised to fall.  Correction ‘Due’  “The market is due for a correction,” said Jeff Grossman,
president of New York-based BRG Brokerage and a New York
Mercantile Exchange floor trader. “At this price, the market
will have to come off. The economy is not strong enough and I
don’t think demand is that strong.”  World oil consumption will climb by 1.2 million barrels a
day next year, the Paris-based  International Energy Agency  said
on July 11 in its first monthly report with forecasts for 2014.
Supplies from outside the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries will jump by 1.3 million barrels a day amid booming
output in  North America , curbing the need for crude from the 12-member producer group, according to the report.  Oil rose as much as 0.8 percent in intraday trading on
expectations a government report tomorrow may show U.S.
inventories dropped for a third week.  EIA Estimates  Stockpiles probably dropped by 2 million barrels in the
seven days ended July 12, following a decline of 20.2 million in
the prior two weeks, according to a Bloomberg survey before
tomorrow’s Energy Information Administration report.  “We had two very bullish reports in a row,” Grossman
said. “If there is another one, I guess the market will stay up
here.”  Refineries boosted their operations as gasoline consumption
increased to an 11-month high in the week ended July 5, the EIA,
the Energy Department’s statistical arm, said last week. Fuel
demand is strongest from the last weekend in May to the Labor
Day weekend in early September, the prime U.S. vacation period.  Gasoline at U.S. pumps jumped this week by the most since
February, the EIA said yesterday.  Regular gasoline  at filling
stations rose 14.7 cents from a week earlier to $3.639 a gallon,
the highest level since June 10. This week’s gain was the
largest since Feb. 4.  The industry-funded API collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the EIA for its weekly survey. API began releasing its weekly
supply statistics on a subscription basis this month.  Playing ‘Cautiously’  “Nobody is really sticking their neck out to take too much
risk,” said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions
LLC in Houston. “People are trying to play cautiously here.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
September was 21.5 percent, compared with 21.4 percent
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 562,210
contracts as of 4:48 p.m. It totaled 518,891 contracts
yesterday, 22 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was a record high 1.88 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  