-- Cyber-Attack Is a Systemic Risk, Exchange Study Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-07-16T19:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/cyber-attack-is-a-systemic-risk-exchange-study-says.html
A “significant” number of
exchanges have fought off sabotage via the Internet in the last
year and the majority of bourses worldwide say it is a systemic
risk to markets, according to a  study  co-authored by  the World
Federation of Exchanges .  About 53 percent of exchanges surveyed have been hit by a
cyber-attack in the last year. American venues were most likely,
with 67 percent saying they had to fight them off, the joint
study by  the International Organization of Securities
Commissions  and the WFE found. About 89 percent say it
represents a systemic risk, the study said.  “A number of respondents could envision a large-scale,
coordinated and successful cyber-attack on financial markets
having a substantial impact on market integrity and
efficiency,” the study said. Asked to define such an attack,
“the majority of respondents proposed scenarios with more far-reaching consequences, such as halting trading,” it said.  In February 2011, suspicious files were discovered on a
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. website that facilitates director
communication among listed companies, prompting the exchange
operator to start an investigation with federal authorities. The
trading platforms operate independently from the company’s
“web-facing” services, the company said at the time.  The  New York  Stock Exchange website faced threats from a
hacker group in October 2011. The venue said its website
functioned without interruption on the day of the threatened
intrusion.  Cyber Crime  About 59 percent of exchanges in the report said there’s a
framework for sanctions against cyber-crime in their
jurisdiction. Of these, 55 percent said that sanction regimes
are an effective deterrent.  “While there is uncertainty around the size of the cyber-crime threat in securities markets, there are clear signs that
it is a growing threat to the financial sector, with potential
for large costs,” Rohini Tendulkar from Iosco and Gregoire
Naacke from the WFE, authors of the study said. “Cyber-crime
also appears to be increasing in terms of sophistication and
complexity, widening the potential for infiltration and large-scale damage.”  Exchanges said “100 percent security is illusionary,” and
about a quarter said the current measures may not be sufficient
to withstand a large-scale and coordinated attack.  Technology and the risk it poses to markets is under
increasing scrutiny after breakdowns at Knight Capital Group
Inc. drove the firm to the brink of insolvency. The mishap
spurred calls in the  U.S. Congress  to examine whether increasing
automation is damaging the integrity of the U.S. equity market,
the world’s largest.  About 93 percent of exchanges said “cyber-threats are
discussed and understood by senior management” and about 90
percent said they have internal plans in place to address it.  Madrid-based Iosco brings together market regulators from
more than 100 countries. WFE is the global exchange trade
association with 57 members including the world’s biggest
bourses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  