-- Czech Early Elections Bid Fails as Amid Clash With Zeman
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-07-17T13:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/czech-early-election-bid-set-to-fail-as-parties-battle-president.html
The  Social Democrats , the Czech
parliament’s largest party, failed in their attempt to initiate
early elections as a split parliament argued over how to counter
President Milos Zeman’s moves to shape the government.  A proposal to dissolve the assembly, a step needed to call
a snap ballot, got the backing of 96 lawmakers today in  Prague ,
with 92 opposed, falling short of a three-fifths majority of 120
votes needed to carry the motion. The Social Democrats didn’t
muster enough votes as the three members of the former  pro-austerity  ruling coalition were against it.  The confrontation prolongs the political turmoil that began
last month after Prime Minister Petr Necas’s government fell
amid an illegal spying and graft scandal and risks extending a
record-long  recession . Zeman, the  Czech Republic ’s first
directly elected head of state, picked a technocrat, Jiri Rusnok, for premier, snubbing the Social Democrats’ call for
fresh elections and the former coalition’s attempt to continue
in government backed by a majority in parliament.  “An early election isn’t a solution at this moment,”
Miroslav Kalousek, the former finance minister in Necas’s
cabinet, said during the debate. “The solution is a rigorous
execution of parliamentary powers against the president and his
government, so that it’s clear to him that this experiment has
no chance, that repeating it would only mean repeating an
embarrassment, that he will never get away with attempts to
bypass the sovereign body of parliament.”  Below Treasuries  Czech borrowing costs have fallen back after the monthlong
political turbulence. Yields on 10-year koruna debt were 2.11
percent today,  five basis point , or 0.05 percentage point, more
than on June 12, the night before the organized-crime police
raided government buildings to arrest a Necas aide and other
officials including the head of military-intelligence service.  The yield is 44 basis points below comparable U.S.
Treasuries, according to generic government rates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The  Social Democratic Party  considers an early election
to be the best way to end the current political crisis,”
Chairman Bohuslav Sobotka said today. “The president named a
government created outside the parliamentary framework, which is
logically creating tensions on the political scene, as well as
inside parties.”  Rusnok’s technocrat cabinet, which includes unsuccessful
presidential candidate Jan Fischer as finance minister, needs to
survive a confidence vote in parliament within 30 days of taking
office on July 10. Rusnok, who wants to focus on restarting
economic growth after six consecutive quarters of contraction,
said the vote may take place close to Aug. 8.  Caretaker Basis  If the government fails to win a simple majority in the
confidence motion, it would stay in office on a caretaker basis
and Zeman has no constitutional deadline to name a replacement
before the next scheduled elections in May 2014.  The former coalition is trying to avoid an early ballot
because its popularity suffered as Necas’s scandal added to
public discontent over austerity. The poll-leading Social
Democrats demand a snap vote and pledge to raise taxes for
spending they say is needed to pull the $217 billion  economy  out
of its  recession .  The parties that backed Necas accuse Zeman of breaking with
tradition by naming a premier that doesn’t have the support of a
majority in parliament. By using his right to appoint the
technocrat government, Zeman showed desire to increase his
influence over politics, according to Jiri Pehe, director of  New
York  University in Prague and a former adviser to late President
 Vaclav Havel .  “Let’s not expect the largest left and right parties to
agree how to quickly return ruling to the hands of elected
politicians, which can only be achieved by early elections,”
Pehe said in a July 15 article on his website. “We can expect
hypocrisy, bickering and foolish feinting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  