-- Democrats See Advantage With Women in State Abortion Laws
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-07-16T13:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/democrats-see-advantage-with-women-in-state-abortion-laws.html
A vote by  Texas  lawmakers to create
some of the nation’s strongest abortion restrictions will play
into 2014 election campaigns and might also spur Republican
presidential candidates in 2016 to push for stricter limits.  Approval of the Texas measure was the latest Republican-led
initiative in statehouses and Congress in recent years to more
aggressively regulate abortion. Rallies at the Texas capitol in
Austin leading up to the July 12 vote show the issue remains
politically potent more than four decades after the U.S. Supreme
Court made the procedure legal.  Democrats already are using Texas to try to boost their
2014 congressional fundraising, calling it part of a “War on
Women” being waged by Republicans. They said it will expand
their electoral advantage with women.  “This is going to propel a lot of women into the political
process,” said U.S. Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of
 Florida , chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, in an
interview today. “It sends another message to women that the
Republican Party doesn’t understand them or their needs.”  State Senator Wendy Davis, a Fort Worth Democrat whose 11-hour filibuster helped block the abortion bill last month and
forced Texas Governor  Rick Perry  to call a second special
session to deal with it, is already seeing financial gain. She
reported yesterday raising $933,000 during the last two weeks of
June, with more than 15,000 campaign contributions.  Texas Contest  Perry, 63, who supports the abortion measure that he has
yet to sign, said last week that he won’t run for re-election in
2014. He hasn’t ruled out a second presidential bid after his
failed campaign for the 2012 Republican nomination.  Davis, 50, has said she is considering running for
governor. The state’s Republican attorney general, Greg Abbott,
who announced his intention to run for governor over the
weekend, is an overwhelming favorite to succeed Perry, said
Harold Cook, a Democratic political consultant in Austin.  Perry may have gained his own political advantage. That’s
because abortion opponents dominate Republican nomination voting
in two states that make the first decisions,  Iowa  and South
Carolina.  Bob Vander Plaats, president of the Family Leader, an Iowa-based coalition that opposes abortion rights and gay marriage,
said Perry’s leadership on the issue will help with “people
that he will need to win over in an Iowa caucuses.”  Seeking Restrictions  The Texas legislation bans abortion after 20 weeks of
pregnancy and requires the state’s 42 abortion facilities to
meet standards similar to those for outpatient surgical centers.
Even if clinics spend millions of dollars to upgrade -- only six
of the facilities already meet the new standard -- they’ll face
another hurdle under the law: doctors are required to gain
admitting privileges at a nearby hospital.  Perry’s high-profile efforts on the issue could push other
potential 2016 Republican candidates to call for more
restrictions. Former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania ,
a 2012 Republican president candidate who may be positioning
himself for another bid, showed up in Austin last week to
criticize “national Republicans” for urging lawmakers to back
off on pressing abortion restrictions for fear of alienating
women and younger voters.  Blaming a growing national gender gap on Republican efforts
to restrict abortion over-simplifies how women vote, said Tony Perkins, president of the Washington-based Family Research
Council, which opposes same-sex marriage and abortion rights.  Remembering Perry  “I don’t think this hurts at all,” Perkins said. “This
is reflective of where the country is as a whole,” he said,
citing more than 200 laws passed by states in the past three
years that restrict abortions.  “It’s absolutely insulting to women to say the only thing
they vote about is reproduction,” Perkins said. “A lot of
women are supportive of these measures that are actually women-centric in terms of providing basic safety measures in these
clinics.”  Should Perry run for president again, Perkins said his
efforts in Texas will be remembered and rewarded by abortion
opponents.  ‘Very Helpful’  “This is where you see a distinction between those who
talk about being pro-life and those who actually take
initiatives to show that they’re pro-life,” he said.  Republicans dominate Texas politics with large majorities
in the House and Senate and wins in about 100 consecutive
statewide elections since 1994. Democrats said the abortion
fight could ultimately boost their standing in a state where
changing demographics could someday favor them electorally.  “The abortion debate is a very helpful step in the process
for those who want Democrats to be viable in Texas,” Cook said.  State Senator Sylvia Garcia, a Houston Democrat, said
Democratic women in Texas haven’t been so agitated since 1972.  “I’ve never seen women so motivated since the passage of
the Equal Rights Amendment in Texas,” she said.  The Texas political landscape could change dramatically
over the next decade as the number of Hispanics surpasses Anglos
in the second-most populous state. Nationally, Hispanics gave
President  Barack Obama  a 44-percentage-point advantage over
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  in the 2012 election.  Hispanic Voters  Texas Republicans say the abortion debate will give them a
boost among Hispanics, who are more supportive of abortion
restrictions than the public overall, by showing a stark
difference with Democrats.  “This issue has solidified Republican voters,” said state
Representative Larry Gonzales, a Hispanic Republican in a
district near Austin. “People know what we stand for.”  State Senator Eddie Lucio Jr., a Democrat whose district
borders  Mexico  and is more than 80 percent Hispanic and
Catholic, said Republicans have been “very smart” to stick
with a message of strong opposition to abortion.  “It will continue to get them elected in Texas,” he said.  Lucio was the only one of the state’s 12 Democratic
senators to vote for the abortion bill, along with 18
Republicans. In the House, five of 55 Democratic representatives
voted for the bill.  Democrats can build their advantage with women voters if
they expand the debate beyond abortion to include equal-pay,
family planning programs and education funding, said Sylvia
Manzano, senior research analyst at  Latino Decisions , a Seattle-based polling firm. Perry last month vetoed a bill that mirrored
the federal Lilly Ledbetter Act in 2009 requiring woman be paid
equally as similarly qualified men.  Turned Off  “Our data and lots of national studies show women are
turned off not only by abortion policies but the rhetoric around
the debate,” Manzano said.  Abortion isn’t a mobilizing issue for Hispanics, who
comprised 40 percent of Texas’ population in 2012, compared with
immigration reform and education funding, said Manzano, who
works in Houston. About 35 percent of Hispanics in Texas voted
for Romney in the 2012 presidential election.  Surveys last year by the Washington-based Pew Research
Center showed that 54 percent of American adults want abortion
to be legal in all or most cases, while 39 percent favor making
abortion illegal in all or most cases. Those percentages have
remained “fairly stable since the mid-1990s,” according to the
January report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  