-- Dexia to Get $47 Million With Intesa in Piedmont Swaps Suit
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-07-16T12:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/dexia-to-get-47-million-with-intesa-in-piedmont-swaps-lawsuit.html
The Italian region of Piedmont must
pay about 36 million euros ($47 million) to Dexia Crediop SpA
and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  after losing a London lawsuit over
interest-rate swap contracts.  Judge Henry Eder said Piedmont hadn’t responded in time to
defend the Italian banks’ application for payment, and called
the region’s allegations of mis-selling “vague and obscure.”
Piedmont hasn’t made payments since January 2012.  Italian local governments from Pisa to Sicily lost money on
derivatives sold by investment banks that were supposed to limit
interest-rate exposure on loans. In one of more than half a
dozen British and Italian legal cases linked to the deals, a
Milan judge convicted bankers and firms including Deutsche Bank
AG,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  of fraud in December.  “If Piedmont wished to challenge those figures, they have
had ample -- indeed more than ample -- time to do so,” Eder
said in a written decision today.  A spokeswoman for Dexia Crediop in  Rome  declined to
comment, while an Intesa spokeswoman didn’t have an immediate
comment. Piedmont’s U.K. lawyer Andrew Wass declined to
immediately comment.  Piedmont, which told the London court its finance director
didn’t speak English well enough to understand the contracts,
signed the swaps along with a 1.8 billion-euro bond issue in
2006. It sought a full trial to argue its case that the
agreements weren’t valid under Italian law and contained hidden
profits for the banks.  Hotel Crillon  The judge rejected Piedmont’s argument that it wasn’t
experienced enough in financial markets to enter into a
derivative contract.  “It is, after all, a major regional authority and
certainly had access to lawyers,” Eder said in the ruling.  Intesa and Dexia paid for the local authority’s officials
to stay at luxury hotels and dine at Hotel Crillon in Paris and
the two-Michelin star Sea Grill in Brussels in order to secure
the contract, Piedmont told the court in a July 5 hearing.  The region settled a swap dispute with  Bank of America
Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch last month on confidential terms.  The case is: Dexia Crediop S.p.A. v. Regione Piemonte,  High
Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division Commercial Court  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  