-- DIB Drops as Banks Seek Time to Comply With Curbs: Dubai Mover
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-07-16T11:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/dib-drops-as-banks-seek-time-to-comply-with-curbs-dubai-mover.html
Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB)  retreated
the most in two weeks after United Arab Emirates lenders asked
the central bank for five years to comply with requirements to
reduce their exposure to the government.  Shares of Dubai Islamic, the U.A.E.’s biggest Shariah-compliant lender, fell 1.7 percent, the most since July 2, to
3.38 dirhams at the close in Dubai. The stock was the biggest
decliner by  index (DFMGI)  points on the benchmark DFM General Index,
which ended an eight-day winning streak, decreasing 0.5 percent.
 Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , Dubai’s biggest bank, lost 2 percent.  The U.A.E. Banks Federation said yesterday it was seeking
an extension to comply with a central bank directive requiring
banks to lend no more than 100 percent of their capital to local
governments and the same to government-related entities, known
as GREs. The rules were introduced more than a year ago after
many banks suffered from an increase in bad loans linked to debt
restructuring by GREs during Dubai’s property crash.  “The new regulation by the central bank had been received
positively by the markets because it protects the banking sector
from another crisis,” said Montasser Khelifi, Dubai-based
senior manager for global markets at Quantum Investment Bank
Ltd. “Now that the banks are asking for a delay of five years,
that means that the recovery is still not complete and that the
risky exposures are still important in the banks’ balance
sheets.”  Dubai Islamic shares fell for the first time in nine days,
trimming their advance this year to 68 percent. Emirates NBD’s
stock rallied a similar amount in 2013 after the lender’s profit
grew 31 percent in the first quarter.  Dubai, one of seven emirates that make up the U.A.E., is
recovering after a property-market crash sent home prices
tumbling more than 65 percent from a mid-2008 peak. The economy
is set to grow 4.6 percent, on average, between 2012 and 2015,
more than twice as fast as in the prior four years, government
forecasts show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  