-- DNA Owners Pull Sale After Bids Weren’t Attractive Enough
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-07-16T09:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/dna-owners-pull-sale-citing-conditions-not-optimal-for-disposal.html
Owners of DNA Oy, Finland’s third-largest wireless carrier, pulled the sale of the operator after
the proposals it received weren’t attractive enough.  DNA, owned by a group of Finnish regional phone carriers
led by Finda Oy, said its ownership structure will remain
unchanged after owners received “several noteworthy proposals”
for alternative arrangements, according to a  statement  by the
Helsinki-based company today. It had explored options including
a private-equity buyout and initial public offering.  DNA’s market value is probably about 1.1 billion euros
($1.4 billion),  Mikko Ervasti , an analyst at Evli Bank Oyj in
Helsinki, said in March. A sale would have provided the
shareholders with cash, while potentially strengthening DNA
against larger rivals  Elisa Oyj (ELI1V)  and  TeliaSonera AB. (TLSN)   “The telecommunications industry is undergoing changes and
investments will remain at a high level,” DNA Chairman Jarmo Leino said. “Operators will have to take new pricing models
under serious consideration. The owners have decided to retain
the current ownership structure for the time being as the market
situation becomes clearer.”  Apax Partners LLP, Providence Equity Partners LLC, Bain
Capital LLC and EQT Partners AB were among those bidding,
according to a person familiar with the situation. A spokeswoman
for Bain in  London  declined to comment. Apax, Providence and EQT
representatives didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  Finnish operators are among European carriers competing
intensely on price as the growth of smartphone use plateaus.
Companies including Orange SA and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  are cutting
prices in markets such as  Spain  and the U.K. to woo customers.  DNA’s sales increased 5.7 percent to 769 million euros last
year and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 1.2 percent to 191 million euros, according to
its website. DNA’s wireless service covers more than 5 million
Finns and the company also owns a cable-television network in
the Helsinki area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  