-- Dole Doesn’t Have to Warn of Lead Under California Law
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-07-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/dole-doesn-t-have-to-warn-of-lead-under-california-law.html
Dole Food Co. (DOLE)  and  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Gerber
unit won a tentative ruling that they don’t have to warn
consumers about lead contained in their  baby food , packaged
fruit and juices.  Judge Stephen Brick in California Superior Court in Oakland
said that the companies, and other food makers facing a state
lawsuit, showed that each of their products is below the
regulatory “safe harbor” exposure level, and no warnings are
required under California’s Proposition 65 toxins-warning law.  “There is no dispute that defendants’ products contain
small amounts of lead,” Brick wrote in the tentative ruling
July 15. Still, he said, the evidence showed the exposures in
question are below 0.5 micrograms per day. A microgram is one
millionth of a gram.  “Defendants need not provide Prop 65 warnings on their
products,” he said. Brick rejected the companies’ arguments
that Proposition 65 is preempted by federal toxin warning laws
and the lead was naturally occuring and therefore exempt from
the labeling requirement.  The Environmental Law Foundation, a Berkeley, California-based group, sued the companies, alleging that the foods contain
unsafe levels of lead and demanding that they change their
business practices to reduce those levels or provide a warning
under  California ’s Proposition 65.  Packaged Pears  The products include grape juice, packaged pears and
peaches, along with baby foods containing those fruits, carrots
and sweet potatoes.  James Wheaton, the foundation’s legal director, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.  California is the only U.S. state with a right-to-know law
requiring businesses to warn consumers about products or
materials that contain chemicals known to cause cancer or
interfere with reproduction.  Proposition 65 warning signs and labels are posted in
stores, gas stations, office buildings and restaurants. The law
carries fines of $2,500 a day for each violation.  The case is Environmental Law Foundation v. Beech-Nut
Nutrition Corp., RG11597384, California Superior Court,  Alameda
County (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  