-- Dollar Bulls Waver as Fed’s Signals Whipsaw Traders
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-07-16T12:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/dollar-bulls-waver-as-fed-s-signals-whipsaw-traders-currencies.html
Praxis Trading’s Yra Harris said he
isn’t taking any chances when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  delivers his semi-annual testimony on the economy and
monetary policy to Congress the next two days.  Even with the dollar rising the most this year of 10
developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, it  dropped  on July 11 by the biggest amount
since October 2011 after Bernanke said the U.S. economy still
requires stimulus. Futures bets on the greenback rallying versus
the yen, euro, Canadian dollar and British pound had moved in
lockstep two weeks in a row as of July 9, the first time that’s
happened since 2009, according to Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  “I’m absolutely paring back positions because you have to
respect the ability of one phrase to move the markets,” Harris,
the chief trader and analyst at Praxis in  Chicago , said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “This market is favoring
people who are nimble in trading. This market is not favoring
people with long-term views.”  Hedge funds  and other futures traders had $30.2 billion of
wagers that the dollar would rally against the pound, yen and
six other currencies as of July 9, up from $24 billion the
previous week, according to CFTC data compiled by Nomura
Holdings Inc. As recently as the end of last year, investors had
$14.5 billion of bets that the currency would decline, or net
short positions.  Taper Speculation  Bernanke said on July 10 in a question-answer session after
a speech in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , that inflation and
unemployment rates show the  U.S. economy  still requires very
accommodative monetary stimulus.  Traders have been anticipating the Fed will reduce its
monthly bond purchases since Bernanke suggested June 19 that
stronger growth could prompt a tapering of the debt-buying
program, which is used to keep borrowing costs low.  The Fed has been buying $40 billion of mortgage bonds and
$45 billion of Treasuries each month to inject cash into the
economy. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Group of Seven Volatility Index,
based on currency-option premiums, jumped to 11.8 percent on
June 24, the highest close in a year. The benchmark was at 10.7
percent as of 8:45 a.m. in  New York  and has risen from a low for
this year of 7.64 percent in January.  U.S. unemployment, at 7.6 percent, hasn’t been below 7
percent since November 2008. The  consumer price index  is
forecast to end the year at 1.5 percent, from 2.1 percent in
2012, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The Fed’s
inflation target is 2 percent.  ‘Enormous Value’  Last week’s losses and volatility show the risk of
consensus trades and positioning, said  Alan Ruskin , the global
head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank
AG. The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to monitor the greenback against the currencies of six major
U.S. trade partners, fell as much as 1.9 percent on July 11, the
most since October 2011.  “What was significant was, for example, that all positions
were aligned the same way,” Ruskin said July 15 in a telephone
interview. “It tells you, the positioning, that if there’s a
fundamental story or shock the other way, the market is
vulnerable to a squeeze, that has enormous value in giving you
that kind of information about the potential vulnerability to a
piece of news.”  Emerging Powers  Emerging-market currencies from  South Africa ’s rand to
 Russia ’s ruble rallied after Bernanke signaled that stimulus to
the world’s largest economy won’t be dropped soon. The assets
had risen as easing in the U.S. spurred investors around the
world to seek higher-yielding assets.  An equally weighted basket of so-called BRICS emerging-market currencies has climbed 1.9 percent from a low this year
on July 5 as investors that had been seeking higher yielding
assets unwind their bets.  Former Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill 
coined the term BRIC in 2001 to describe  Brazil , Russia,  India 
and  China  -- the four emerging powers he estimated would equal
the U.S. in joint economic output by 2020. Those nations invited
South Africa to join their ranks in December 2010.  Investors were surprised last month by gains in the dollar
when they perceived the Fed chairman as more hawkish than
anticipated.  The Dollar Index rose on June 19 by the most since May as
Bernanke said the central bank may start dialing back its asset-purchase program, known as quantitative easing, this year and
end it entirely in mid-2014 if the economy achieves sustainable
growth.  Policy Report  The gauge, at 82.802, is forecast to increase to 86.1 by
the end of 2013, according to the median estimate of analysts
and economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The gauge has  risen  3.8
percent this year.  “People are still playing it from the sidelines,” Matthew Slade, a strategist at Nomura International Plc in  London , said
of the dollar in a phone interview yesterday. “Going into
speeches, I think that’s how the traders like to play it because
it’s very difficult to gauge what Bernanke is going to say.”  Bernanke is scheduled to deliver his semi-annual monetary
policy report starting tomorrow at the House Financial Services
Committee. Strategists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the dollar
will gain this year against the euro, yen, pound and franc.
They’re estimating the U.S. currency will be about unchanged
versus the Canadian, Australian and New Zealand dollars.  ‘Dollar Uptrend’  “Following the excessive moves from last week, the market
is no longer as long dollars,”  Valentin Marinov , the London-based head of European Group of 10 currency strategy at
Citigroup Inc., said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “Tapering will likely remain on the table, keeping long-term Treasury yields and the dollar generally supported,” he
said. “Overall, the dollar uptrend remains very much unchanged.
The U.S. growth story still remains the most compelling one in
G-4. Investors will still want to be buying dollars on dips.”  The dollar has rallied 5.8 percent this year versus nine
developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has fallen 9.1 percent, and the euro
rose 5.1 percent.  “The risk of something being clarified when Bernanke
speaks is certainly going to make some people be a little bit
sidelined,”  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales in New
York at  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , said yesterday in a phone
interview. “People will be fairly neutral going into
overnight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  