-- Dollar Slides Amid Speculation on Bernanke Report; Krona Climbs
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-07-16T21:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/dollar-falls-aussie-rises-on-bets-fed-will-quell-qe-speculation.html
The dollar dropped against all of
its 16 most-traded peers except  Brazil ’s real amid bets Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will seek to damp investor
expectations of a reduction in stimulus when he testifies to
Congress tomorrow.  The euro rose for the first time in three days versus the
greenback even after German investor confidence unexpectedly
fell.  India ’s rupee reached a two-week high after policy makers
raised interest rates. Sweden’s krona climbed after minutes were
released of the central bank’s last meeting. Bernanke said July
10 U.S. unemployment and inflation warrant further stimulus.  “The message is resonating with investors that any Fed
tapering is data-dependent,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic
strategist at Miller Tabak and Co. in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “That’s hindering the advance in the
dollar, which built a head of steam earlier in the month.”  The dollar lost 0.8 percent to $1.3162 per euro at 5 p.m.
New York time. The U.S. currency depreciated 0.8 percent to
99.10 yen. The shared European currency was little changed at
130.43 yen.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index, a
measure of currency fluctuations, slipped to almost a one-month
low. The gauge was at 10.50 percent after dropping to 10.47
percent on July 9, the least since June 18. The average this
year is 9.32.  The  yield  on U.S. Treasury two-year notes touched 0.32
percent, almost the lowest since June 20.  “The yield has been receding, and as it recedes it’s been
taking the dollar lower across the board,”  Sebastien Galy , a
foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York,
said in a phone interview.  Brazilian Real  Brazil’s currency slid versus its 31 most-traded
counterparts after a report showed inflation slowed, damping
bets the central bank will increase borrowing costs at a faster
place. The real weakened 1.5 percent to 2.2538 per dollar after
strengthening 0.5 percent earlier and rallying 2.1 percent
yesterday in the biggest jump since June 2012.  The rupee gained after the  Reserve Bank  of India increased
the marginal standing facility rate and the  bank rate  to 10.25
percent from 8.25 percent late yesterday in Mumbai, according to
a statement on its website. The monetary authority also said it
will conduct open-market sales of government debt totaling 120
billion rupees ($2 billion) on July 18.  The Indian currency appreciated 1 percent to 59.3200 per
dollar, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It reached 59.1250, the strongest since July 1. The
rupee fell to a record 61.2125 on July 8.  Krona Rallies  Sweden’s krona climbed versus the greenback after minutes
of the Riksbank’s last meeting showed policy makers’ concern
that  household debt  is mounting turning their focus away from
the currency’s strength. The central bank decided July 2 to keep
its main  interest rate  at 1 percent for at least another year
rather than cutting it.  The krona rallied 1.5 percent to 6.5817 and reached 6.5774,
the strongest level since June 21.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $25 billion, compared with $31 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $5.3 billion, the
largest share of trades at 21.1 percent. Dollar-Chinese-yuan
options totaled $5.2 billion, or 20.5 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 26 percent less than the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yuan options trading was
138 percent more than average.  Bernanke Report  Bernanke is scheduled to deliver his semi-annual monetary
policy report to Congress this week, starting tomorrow at the
House Financial Services Committee. The Fed purchases $85
billion of Treasuries and mortgage debt each month as part of
its latest round of quantitative-easing to cap borrowing costs,
a program that tends to debase the currency.  The dollar climbed 4 percent against the euro and 4.9
percent versus the yen between June 19, the day Bernanke said
policy makers may start slowing bond purchases this year if
economic growth meets their projections, and July 9.  The Fed chief said July 10 the U.S. still needs “highly
accommodative” monetary policy. Minutes released the same day
of the central bank’s last policy meeting showed “about half”
of participants indicated “it likely would be appropriate” to
end the buying late this year.  ‘Position-Related’  “Most of the dollar move is position-related right now,”
 Mike Moran , a senior currency strategist at Standard Chartered
Plc in New York, said in a telephone interview. “The market is
clearly overextended in long-dollar positions. The risk-reward
certainly doesn’t favor being long dollars going into the
meeting.” A long position is a bet an asset will rise in value.  U.S. unemployment, at 7.6 percent, hasn’t been below 7
percent since November 2008. The  consumer price index  is
forecast to end the year at 1.5 percent, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The Fed’s target is 2 percent.  The dollar pared earlier losses versus the yen today after
the Labor Department said the consumer-price index rose 0.5
percent in June, the most in four months. The gauge gained 1.8
percent from a year earlier, the data showed.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, fell 0.7 percent to 1,030.39.  The euro pared a gain versus the U.S currency after the ZEW
Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim said its  index 
of investor and analyst expectations fell to 36.3 this month
from 38.5 in June. A Bloomberg survey forecast a rise to 40.  The shared currency has gained 5 percent this year among 10
developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  rose 5.3 percent, the biggest
win, while the yen slid 9.2 percent, the biggest loss.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  