-- Eastern U.S. Heat Wave May End This Weekend With Thunder Storms
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-07-16T13:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/eastern-u-s-heat-wave-may-end-this-weekend-with-thunder-storms.html
The heat wave baking the eastern
U.S. from  Chicago  to  New York , boosting energy demand, may end
with thunder, high winds and lightning by the weekend.  A cold front is expected to crash into the heat July 19-20,
starting in Chicago and then sweeping east to New York and New
England, said Rob Carolan, founder of Hometown Forecast Services
Inc. in Nashua, New Hampshire.  “Chicago and Detroit are going to get clipped in the
afternoon so they are going to have some severe weather,”
Carolan said by telephone. “ New York City  potentially Saturday
afternoon, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh as well.”  About 87.1 million people live in the path of the two-day
event, according to the  U.S. Storm Prediction Center  in Norman,
 Oklahoma . There is more than a 30 percent chance of severe
storms from Madison, Wisconsin, to Buffalo, New York, July 19
and then from Cleveland to  New England  the next day.  Severe thunderstorms caused $15 billion in insured losses
in 2012 and $25 billion in 2011, according to the  Insurance
Information Institute  in New York.  From 1992 to 2011, thunderstorms and tornadoes accounted
for the second-highest amount of catastrophic losses in the
U.S., $130.2 billion, topped only by hurricanes and tropical
storms with $161.3 billion, the institute said.  Carolan said the timing of when the cold front moves into
the area will determine how severe the storms are. If it hits in
the afternoon when the temperature is above 90 degrees
Fahrenheit (32 Celsius), high winds and thunder can be expected.  Evening Effect  If the front passes through at night when temperatures are
in the 70s, then it won’t be as severe, which is what Carolan
said he believes will happen in New England. In New York, it is
harder to say right now.  Yesterday’s high in New York’s Central Park was 94, 10
degrees greater than normal, though lower than the daily record
of 102 set in 1995, according to the  National Weather Service .  In  Boston  the high was 92; Chicago, 89; Washington, 96; and
in Philadelphia, 95, weather service records show.  Utilities have urged customers to conserve energy and have
placed crews on standby to deal with outages.  New York power demand peaked yesterday at a record for the
year of 32,703 megawatts, enough for 26.2 million homes on an
average day, according to the New York Independent System
Operator Inc., which runs the state power grid. Demand will be
33,300 today, the ISO said in a statement.  Natural gas will be used to fuel about 32 percent of  power
plants  this year, according to the Energy Information
Administration.  Less Humidity  A drop in humidity in the New York and New England may keep
electricity demand flat, said  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “We are forecasting most of the East Coast cities to come
in a degree or two hotter than yesterday’s high temperatures,”
Rogers said in an e-mail interview. “At first glance that would
suggest higher demand, but we are noticing that dew points are
drier than yesterday too, meaning slightly lower humidity and
lower heat index.”  New York may reach 97 today and stay at or above the 90-degree mark into this weekend, according to the weather service.
Chicago may reach 92 today; Washington, 98; Boston, 92; and
Toronto 90. Those high temperatures are expected to linger until
this weekend.  Fewer Warnings  The lower humidity and heat index scores have caused the
weather service to scale back on some of its heat warnings and
advisories along coastal  New Jersey  and Massachusetts. They
still are in place in New York, Washington, Baltimore and
Philadelphia.  “Along the immediate coast from New England to New Jersey,
a light sea breeze may set up that will push temperatures into
the 80s,” Carolan said.  These onshore winds may also push down energy demand in
those areas, Rogers said.  An advisory is also in place for most of Michigan and
around Minneapolis and  St. Paul  in Minnesota. In  Canada ,
warnings are posted for southern  Quebec .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  