-- Egypt Seeks Reconciliation Talks as Clashes Kill Seven
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y ,   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-07-17T13:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/egypt-seeks-reconciliation-talks-as-clashes-kill-seven.html
Islamist supporters of  Egypt ’s
deposed President Mohamed Mursi clashed with security forces
outside the Cabinet building in Cairo today after rejecting the
new interim government and its offer of reconciliation talks.  Mursi backers called for new protests today after deadly
violence at rallies earlier this week laid bare the deepening
divisions marring the transition from Mursi’s rule. The Muslim
Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice party, from which Mursi hails,
sees the Cabinet sworn in yesterday as “illegitimate” and
built “on the blood of martyrs,” spokesman Hamza Zawba said by
phone, rejecting the invitation to talks.  The secularist-dominated Cabinet led by Prime Minister
Hazem El-Beblawi, an economist and former finance minister, has
been charged with restoring order and kickstarting an economy
caught in its worst slump since the overthrow of longtime leader
 Hosni Mubarak  in 2011. Making the task more challenging is the
opposition it faces from Mursi supporters who say he was a
victim of a July 3 “coup.”  “The Muslim Brotherhood seems to believe that through the
protests, it will ultimately undermine the military-appointed
government,” said Crispin Hawes, head of the Middle East
program at the New York-based Eurasia Group, which monitors
political risk. “The continuing instability only polarizes the
country more.”  Violent Divide  The divide between Islamists and secularists is growing
deeper and increasingly violent. Hours before the Cabinet was
sworn in, seven people died and hundreds were injured at pro-Mursi rallies. Last week, at least 50 Mursi supporters were
killed in fighting with the army. Arrests of Brotherhood leaders
and other Islamists, and the freezing of funds, have only
inflamed Mursi’s supporters further. Violence and the Islamists’
rejection of reconciliation talks sent Egypt’s default risk
climbing.  Outside the Cabinet today, about 300 of Mursi’s backers
scuffled with security forces, Hany Girgis, head of Cairo’s Qasr
El-Nil police station, said by phone. No casualties were
immediately reported.  Human rights group Amnesty International said Mursi
supporters arrested by Egyptian authorities reported that they
were beaten, subjected to electric shocks and hit with rifle
butts.  “At this time of extreme polarization and division, it is
more important than ever that the office of the Public
Prosecutor demonstrates that it’s truly independent and not
politicized,” Hassiba Hadj Sahraoui, deputy director, Middle
East and North Africa program, said on Amnesty’s website today.  Default Risk  Five-year credit default contracts rose 25 basis points
today to 700, according to data provider CMA, taking the
increase this week to 44 basis points. The yield on the
government’s benchmark 5.75-percent bonds due in 2020 added six
basis points to 8.53 percent, the highest on a closing basis in
a week.  The position of Mursi’s backers shows “that the problem
was not resolved and that the road map that the military is
trying to enforce is not working,” said Omar Ashour, a senior
lecturer in Middle East politics at the University of Exeter and
a fellow at the Brookings Doha Center.  The military sought again to reassure Egyptians it was not
seeking a political role after deposing Mursi. “We have
affirmed before that the future of the Egyptian state will
include all sides and exclude no one,” military spokesman Ahmed
Mohammed Ali told the Al Arabiya satellite channel.  Reconciliation Overture  Officials from the Brotherhood’s party and the
ultraconservative Salafi Nour Party, the only Islamist group to
back the military ouster of Mursi, rejected the offer of Cabinet
posts.  Egypt’s bid for a $4.8 billion International Monetary Fund
loan remains uncompleted two years after it was started. That’s
in part because the Washington-based lender sought political
consensus and a clear economic plan -- two elements Mursi’s
government could not provide.  “It is difficult to see how the government will honestly
address the economic situation,” Hawes said.  Unemployment is at a record high and foreign reserves are
less than half their levels in December 2010. Persian Gulf
countries have pledged $12 billion in aid since Mursi’s ouster.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  