-- Egypt Premier Returns to Cage He Escaped Facing More Clashes
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-07-17T13:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/egyptian-premier-returns-to-cage-he-escaped-facing-more-violence.html
The last stint in government for
Egyptian Prime Minister Hazem El Beblawi ended in November 2011
when the entire cabinet resigned after security services used
deadly force to break up a protest without its knowledge.  The former finance minister now takes office days after
clashes between Islamists and the army left more than 50
supporters of deposed President Mohamed Mursi dead. El Beblawi’s
ability to stem violence, control the military and police, and
bring money into the economy will determine whether  Egypt 
escapes the turmoil that has plagued the nation since the
revolution that toppled  Hosni Mubarak  two years ago.  “The more this instability endures the more unlikely that
tourists will come to Egypt and the more unlikely that
investments come to Egypt,” said Yasser el-Shimy, an analyst in
Cairo at the International Crisis Group, which compiles reports
on conflicts. “This will make it always present in the mind of
the world and Egyptians that things are not working out.”  Backed by $12 billion of aid pledges from Gulf nations and
with a line-up of ministers including a former World Bank
economist, El Beblawi’s first challenge is how to placate a
population whose desire to improve living standards is matched
only by divisions about how to do so.  Healing a divided nation is already complicated because
Mursi’s backers refuse to recognize the new government and vow
to remain on the streets until the ousted leader is reinstated.  High Expectations  For their part, investors have welcomed the political
transition and the influx of aid pledges, which HSBC Holdings
Plc says covers this year’s estimated current-account deficit
and almost half of the budget shortfall.  The perceived risk of Egypt reneging on its debt has waned,
with the cost of credit-default swaps plunging from 925 basis
points the day before Mursi was ousted on July 3 to as low as
655 on July 12, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They
traded at 725 basis points today. The benchmark  EGX 30 stock
index  has gained more than 7 percent in the same period.  “Expectations are sky-high,” said Samir Radwan, a former
finance minister who was also approached for the premier’s job
before the selection of El Beblawi, 77 this year. “The
management of these expectations is part of this government.”  Violent Clashes  The new cabinet was sworn in yesterday in Cairo, hours
after pro-Mursi demonstrations degenerated into violence,
leaving seven people dead and hundreds injured. Islamists
greeted the government formation with protests and clashes
outside its building in central Cairo.  The army removed Mursi one year into his presidency after
mass protests against record unemployment, security breakdown,
fuel shortages and what opponents said was his attempt to
tighten the grip of Islamists on power.  Interim President Adly Mansour, chief justice of the
constitutional court, laid out a timeline for constitutional
amendments, followed by parliamentary and presidential
elections. The Muslim Brotherhood, from which Mursi hails, and
other Islamists have spurned offers to join the cabinet.  El Beblawi selected Ziad Bahaa-Eldin, a former lawmaker and
regulator of financial markets, as deputy premier. Ahmed Galal,
who spent 18 years at the World Bank, is finance minister, while
Ashraf El-Arabi was named planning minister, a post he held
under Mursi. Mohamed Ibrahim, who was named by Mursi as interior
minister and later supported his ouster, retained his job.  Military Reins  Previous prime ministers failed to clip the wings of the
interior ministry and assert control over the military, two
institutions that had traditionally answered only to Mubarak, a
former air force commander. A prolonged street mobilization by
Islamists, the same tactics their opponents had used, risks more
clashes with security forces, said El-Shimy.  El Beblawi likened being in government to a cage, according
to a book on his time in office.  The last administration he served in failed because its
“biggest concern became responding to street demands instead of
leading it,” El Beblawi wrote. “The street is always concerned
with its immediate needs, but the government’s responsibility
should be ensuring the future as well as the present.”  The new government inherits a budget deficit that may widen
to 12 percent of economic output this year, the highest in the
Middle East, according to the estimates of 11 analysts on
Bloomberg. Economic growth may slow to 2 percent, near the worst
pace in two decades, while the rate of  inflation , at 9.8 percent
in June, is the highest in two years.  Needing Money  “The bottom line is that Egypt, even in a good year, can
barely generate enough revenue to support the welfare state the
population was told that it would receive,” said Crispin Hawes,
head of the Middle East program at New York-based Eurasia Group.
“El Beblawi, who is a competent economist, understands the
extent of the problem. Ultimately, where we are today, is much
worse than where we were two and a half years ago.”  Policy will focus on attempts to restore security, ease
political polarization, revive economic growth and “make gains
in the issue of social justice,” Bahaa-Eldin, the deputy
premier, said by phone July 15. It will leave “significant
policy changes” to elected officials, he said.  Circumstances are not conducive to restart talks with the
International Monetary Fund to conclude a $4.8 billion loan
agreement, Planning Minister El-Arabi said. Talks with the IMF
were stuck amid Mursi’s reluctance to impose measures such as
raising taxes and cutting energy subsidies.  Gulf Money  The aid package from Saudi Arabia,  Kuwait  and the United
Arab Emirates leaves “very little incentive to introduce the
necessary reforms,” according to Said Hirsh, a partner at
London-based economic consultants Volterra Partners. As a
result, Finance Minister Galal has little scope to trim the
budget deficit, he said by e-mail.  While the cash will give the government breathing space, it
“will by no means suffice to cover Egypt’s funding gap over the
coming two years,” said Mohamed Abu Basha, an economist at
Cairo-based investment bank EFG-Hermes. Relying on “stop-gap”
funding will erode investor confidence further, he said.  During El Beblawi’s tenure in that job, he sought to
restrain spending, reduce energy subsidies for the wealthy and
set a cap for government wages. In the book on his four months
in the “government’s cage,” he cast then-premier Essam Sharaf
as “too polite” of a leader.  Galal, in a paper published two years ago, urged resisting
the temptation to widen the budget deficit to placate
protesters. He said the government can take short-term measures
to create more jobs such as providing temporary holiday on
payroll taxes to private employers.  Now in government against the backdrop of violence and
economic hardship, El Beblawi and his team have little room for
error, according to Radwan, the former finance chief.  “In a highly explosive situation, you don’t pour oil on
the fire,” he said by telephone. “You have to be extremely
careful. People are tired.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  