-- Egypt Default Risk Rises After Clashes as Islamists Reject Talks
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-07-16T13:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/egypt-default-risk-rises-after-clashes-as-islamists-reject-talks.html
Egypt ’s default risk climbed after
Islamist backers of the country’s deposed president clashed with
police and rejected reconciliation talks. The dollar weakened in
black market trading.  Five-year credit default contracts rose 13 basis points to
675, according to data provider CMA. The yield on Egypt’s $1
billion of 5.75-percent notes due 2020 advanced one basis point
to 8.53 percent as of 2:32 p.m. in Cairo after a 20-basis point
jump yesterday, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Seven people were killed in overnight clashes in Cairo
between police and protesters demanding the return of ousted
President Mohamed Mursi to power, according to the Health
Ministry, adding to a death toll of more than 50 last week. The
Muslim Brotherhood and Al Nour Party, the country’s biggest
Islamist groups, rejected reconciliation talks called for by
interim President Adly Mansour.  “The aggression on the streets reflects instability we’re
seeing as part of the transition, so naturally investor concern
grows,”  Mona Mansour , head of research at Cairo-based CI
Capital, said by phone. “In the end, though, the government
must find a way to incorporate the Islamists.”  The dollar in black market trading  weakened to 7.17
Egyptian pounds, or a 2.4-percent premium over official price of
7.0027 pounds a dollar, according to the average quote of three
money changers surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares with a 4.2-percent premium last week and as much as 15 percent in early
April. The dealers operate currency-exchange businesses in Cairo
and asked not to be identified because trading outside official
rates is illegal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  