-- Leibovich Razes Washington, Spares Residents
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-07-16T16:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/leibovich-razes-washington-spares-residents.html
Fear dominated the run-up to the
publication today of Mark Leibovich’s  “This Town.”   The book is a sharp-eyed, funny and elegantly written
takedown of Washington’s crass, insidery, back-scratching (by
journalists and politicians alike) culture. Before galleys
existed, Politico wrote a prebuttal; possible targets sought out
the author to soften him up; and a Capitol Hill aide,  Kurt Bardella , so over-cooperated that he lost his job.  It’s not easy living up to that kind of anticipation,
especially if you are the Tony Soprano of journalists, a killer
profiler for the  New York  Times (ask such subjects as the young
Ted Kennedy Jr., Politico’s Mike Allen and MSNBC’s Chris Matthews), but with a heart. Leibovich has suffered, having lost
a brother young. He married in the traditional way, to a doctor,
not in the merger way -- so common in Washington -- of
journalist to journalist or journalist to politician. He makes
his kids’ soccer games.  That doesn’t mean the book doesn’t hit its targets, but it
does so humanely. Many of us could change the name of his
subjects, put ours in, and have a forehead-smacking revelation
about who we are.  Coveted Connections  For instance, one of the diseases of reporting in
 Washington  is that we treat all inside information as
deliciously communicable. We’re unable to distinguish the tragic
from the trivial -- thus, the scene at a book party hosted by
event-planner and media consultant Tammy Haddad, where she
shouts to Leibovich: “ELIZABETH EDWARDS IS DYING! ELIZABETH
EDWARDS IS DYING! I JUST GOT OFF THE PHONE WITH HER DAUGHTER!
Now c’mon, come meet the novelist.” In Washington, you are
rewarded for being first, not for being sensitive.  Haddad is Becky Sharp to  Leibovich ’s Thackeray, a recurring
character in his novelistic examination of characters who are
unknown outside Washington but have an outsized presence within.
This is where the personal, interpersonal and public intertwine
inextricably. In Leibovich’s telling, Haddad latched on to an
epilepsy charity founded by former presidential adviser David Axelrod and his wife, Susan, raised visibility for the cause,
then “acquired a coveted mantle of her own: someone who had
connections to the Obama White House.” She parlayed those
connections into getting another client an interview with the
president on Air Force One.  In the same vein, Leibovich skewers President Ronald Reagan’s former chief of staff Ken Duberstein, who has leveraged
his short stint in the Oval Office for the past four decades.
Lawyer Bob Barnett, agent to A-listers of both parties (Sarah Palin, the Clintons), wrangles deals in a rat’s nest of
conflicts of interest. Leibovich considers him “tireless in his
self-promotion” and reports that President  Barack Obama 
dismissed the lawyer as the embodiment of conventional wisdom.
That’s no insult in Washington; Barnett can now double his
hourly fee.  Leibovich cops to the local diseases of vanity, self-delusion and mindless socializing that obtain even when death
intrudes (the book opens with the funeral Mass and Kennedy
Center sendoff for NBC’s Tim Russert). The grief is real but so
is the sense that a networking opportunity like the one in front
of Georgetown’s Holy Trinity Catholic Church would be a terrible
thing to waste.  The book is a narrative of days that begin at dawn with
Allen’s Playbook and “Morning Joe” on TV and ends with drinks
at Adams Morgan nightspots with young aides or at salons in
Georgetown with those who used to be young. He closes with a
dinner thrown by the legendary Washington Post editor Ben Bradlee and his wife, Sally Quinn, on a rainy night. As he
wanders through the gathering of royalty in the stately mansion
that was once home to Abe Lincoln’s son Robert, he lists the
high-value targets in attendance. There is Susan Rice, the
failed potential secretary of state nominee (now national
security adviser), who had the bad luck to be called “brusque”
by Thought Leaders, which, he notes, is helpful for men but
deadly for a woman.  The Real America  There also are such Washington denizens as Alan Greenspan
and Colin Powell, always destination guests, even though they
add to the faint mustiness of a room that lacks sufficient
“earpieces” -- evidence that there are high-level officials
worthy of Secret Service protection in attendance.  He runs into those he’s previously profiled, such as
Politico’s Allen and  MSNBC ’s Matthews, who says he no longer
holds a grudge for the “hatchet job.” He captures the essence
of efficient party-going by the former Time magazine editor,
Steve Jobs biographer and Aspen Institute President Walter Isaacson, a Geiger counter of who’s worth talking to. Spotting
Rice, Isaacson brushes past Leibovich with his usual “Hello,
Matthew,” which Leibovich doesn’t correct because “Walter is
so smart, for all I know my name IS Matthew.”  But he found it a good party: “Comfort food heaped at the
buffet, shelter from the elements, and plenty of folk heroes,”
although he laments its distance from the Real America. “It
still felt good to be invited.”  Don’t we all want to be invited, and don’t we all wish to
be so secure that we don’t have to go?  In the epilogue, Leibovich proves himself the mensch when
he forgives just about everyone their craziness, even as he
discusses the freak out of potential subjects so “convinced of
their outsize place in the grimy ecosystem that, surely, this
book had to be about them.”  He takes an elegiac walk through the city as Obama is being
inaugurated for the second time. Real Americans have taken over,
crowding the Metro with kids on their shoulders, and Leibovich
feels good until he hears NBC’s David Gregory on TV.  The hackneyed phrases of the boring “pundit lingua
franca” jolt him back to This Town, which the Real America will
soon depart and the inmates will reclaim. Mark Leibovich, like
the rest of us, will reluctantly be at home again.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 