-- Electronic Frontier Foundation Sues NSA Over Surveillance
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-07-16T17:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/electronic-frontier-foundation-sues-nsa-over-surveillance.html
The Electronic Frontier Foundation
sued the Obama administration over claims surveillance of phone
calls is unconstitutional and illegally erodes the free speech
rights of religious, environmental and human rights groups.  The lawsuit, filed today in federal court in  San Francisco ,
focuses on warrantless collection of U.S. communications under
an intelligence program partly disclosed by ex-government
security contractor Edward Snowden and later acknowledged by the
administration. The EFF sued on behalf of groups including  Human
Rights Watch , Greenpeace and Council on American-Islamic
Relations.  “Any judicial, executive or executive authorization” of
the “Associational Tracking Program or the acquisition and
retention of the communications information of plaintiffs, their
members, and their staffs is unlawful and invalid,” EFF legal
director Cindy Cohn said in the complaint.  Intelligence agencies use the surveillance to study the
private associations and contacts of the groups and their staff
members, chilling their political advocacy work, San Francisco-based EFF said in the filing.  EFF seeks a court order finding the surveillance illegal
and forcing the government to destroy phone records it has
collected.  Andrew Ames, a Justice Department spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment on the suit.  James Clapper , director of national intelligence and a
defendant in the suit, said June 7 that the records-collection
is lawful and aimed at thwarting terrorism. The phone-records
program and another to collect Internet data are authorized
under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, he said.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  filed a similar lawsuit
in June over the National Security Agency program revealed by
Snowden to news organizations.  The EFF case is First Unitarian Church of Los Angeles v.
National Security Agency, 13-cv-03287, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  