-- Energy Unit Accused of Retaliating Against U.S. Workers
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-07-16T17:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/energy-unit-accused-of-retaliating-against-u-s-workers.html
The Bonneville Power Authority, a
U.S. Energy Department unit that runs hydro-power dams,
allegedly retaliated against workers for cooperating with an
investigation of its treatment of military veterans seeking
jobs, an agency watchdog said.  “These actions have a potentially chilling effect on
various aspects of our work and, as such, jeopardize our ability
to effectively complete our review of the circumstances
surrounding inappropriate Bonneville hiring practices,”
Inspector General Gregory Friedman said today in an statement.  Friedman was investigating hiring practices that
appear to have disadvantaged veterans, a violation of U.S.
policy, according to a  memorandum  to Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz posted on the agency’s website.  The Energy Department, in a response to the inspector
general, directed Bonneville administrators to stop any
“adverse personnel actions” against employees and any workers
on leave were ordered to return to work, according to  Robert
Gibbs , the agency’s chief human capital officer.  Bill Drummond, appointed as administrator in February, and
Anita Decker, chief operating officer of the Portland, Oregon-based agency, were escorted from their offices yesterday in
connection with the investigation, the Washington Post reported
today, citing two unidentified sources.  The Energy Department, in an e-mail, said it can’t comment
on personnel matters.  “Although only preliminary, we have determined that
Bonneville engaged in prohibited personnel practices in 65
percent (95 of 146 cases) of its competitive recruitments
conducted from November 2010 to June 2012,” Friedman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  