-- Erdogan Facing Elections Can’t Count on Basci Aid: Turkey Credit
-- B y   O n u r   A n t
-- 2013-07-17T06:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/erdogan-facing-elections-can-t-count-on-basci-aid-turkey-credit.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , confronting a slumping lira and rising bond yields,
faces three elections in the next two years with a central bank
unwilling to risk financial stability to boost the economy.  Turkey  will vote in local and presidential elections next
year and at parliamentary elections in 2015. Two-year borrowing
costs that are the highest in  emerging markets  after Brazil and
 India  and a lira that fell to a record low this month are
signaling Erdogan may struggle to enlist the economy as an ally
for his  Justice and Development Party , also known as AKP.  Growth will probably average 3.8 percent through 2015 after
a below-target 2.2 percent last year, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . That threatens to undermine
Erdogan’s political prospects as he pushes for Turkey to become
one of the world’s 10-biggest economies by 2023. Central bank
Governor Erdem Basci has resisted government calls to ease
policy as he tries to defend the lira and keep foreign investors
attracted to the nation’s assets.  “Around 27 percent to 30 percent of those who voted for
AKP in the last elections are supporting the party grudgingly,”
Ozer Sencar, head of Ankara-based polling company  MetroPOLL
Strategic and Social Research , said in a phone interview
yesterday. “They may leave at the first opportunity and the
likelihood of them voting for opponents in the next local
elections is high.”  Measured Step  Basci said two days ago that “a measured step to widen the
interest-rate corridor” will be on the agenda at the central
bank’s meeting July 23. Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan said the
central bank should use all other instruments except  interest
rates  to manage volatility in the economy, Sabah newspaper
reported the same day.  “There’s definitely no pressure on the central bank,”
Yigit Bulut, Erdogan’s chief adviser, said in an interview in
Istanbul on July 15. “Whatever the market requires in the short
term, the central bank has the authority to do it.”  Two-year  yields  dropped to a record low 4.79 percent on May
17 after the central bank cut rates to a record low and Moody’s
Investors Service raised Turkey to investment grade a day
earlier. Since then, anti-government protests and speculation
the U.S. Federal Reserve will scale back $85 billion a month of
bond purchases sent yields soaring and the lira tumbling.  Selling Dollars  The central bank has spent $6.4 billion of its foreign-exchange reserves since June 11 to curb the depreciation of the
lira, which slid to a record 1.9740 per dollar on July 8. The
yield on two-year notes has jumped 406 basis points in two
months, the biggest increase after India among developing
nations. The yield reached a 13-month high of 9.59 percent on
July 11. The yield fell 10 basis points to 8.85 percent
yesterday.  “If governor Basci is referring to a mere 50 basis-point
widening in the corridor, we think that this will be
insufficient to soothe investor concerns and might even result
in a selloff,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist for central and
eastern  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa  at Morgan Stanley in
 London , said in an e-mailed note yesterday.  The lira fell 0.2 percent to 1.9243 per dollar at 9:30 a.m.
in Istanbul today after gaining for a second day yesterday.
Credit Suisse Group AG raised its three-month target for the
currency to 1.89 per dollar from 2 per dollar earlier, citing
central bank support for the currency.  Inflation Spiral  Erdogan’s AKP came to power in 2002 on a pledge to improve
the economy after the currency’s 54 percent depreciation the
previous year sent  inflation  spiraling to 73 percent. The party
increased its share of votes in the two parliamentary elections
since then, receiving about 50 percent backing in the 2011
ballot.  AKP’s support rebounded to 42 percent this month from a
two-year low of 35 percent in June as protests in Istanbul’s
Gezi Park, near Taksim Square, subsided and Erdogan said
political differences should be dealt with at the ballot box,
according to MetroPOLL’s Sencar.  “Support for AKP hit its lowest since the 2011 elections
in June due to Gezi among other things,” Sencar said. “That’s
what we call AKP’s loyal voter level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Onur Ant in Ankara at 
 oant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  