-- Merkel Aid Clash With EU Raises Risk From Exxon to Bayer
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-07-17T12:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/merkel-to-press-eu-to-allow-industry-energy-intensive-waivers.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and
 Linde AG (LIN)  are among companies at risk of having to repay billions
of euros in German aid as Chancellor Angela Merkel clashes with
 Europe ’s antitrust regulator over rebates to companies that use
the most energy.  A total of 1,691 companies or units are benefiting from
power fee waivers worth about 4 billion euros ($5.3 billion)
this year, according to data from German authorities. While the
European Commission is examining whether the waivers constitute
illegal state aid, Merkel said they’re key to safeguarding the
competitiveness of Europe’s biggest economy.  “Germany needs energy prices that are competitive,”
Merkel said at an event in Cologne yesterday marking the 150th
anniversary of drug maker Bayer, whose plastics unit gets the
waiver at four different locations, according to the  Federal
Office of Economics and Export Control .  Germany  will “fight
resolutely” in Brussels for the waivers.  The waivers free companies from paying the full fee to
support the country’s clean-energy expansion. Merkel’s
government is expanding wind and solar power to make up for the
generation capacity lost when Germany shut its nuclear stations
two years ago.  The commmission today ruled against a separate German
support mechanism for non-ferrous metal producers from 2009. The
40 million-euro program was incompatible with the internal
market, the commission said in a  statement . It approved a plan
compensating energy-intensive users for CO2 costs in their
electricity price.  Triple Share  Germany’s plan to more than triple the share of renewables
in its power mix helped drive up energy costs as Merkel prepares
for a general election in September. Germany had the third-highest consumer power prices in the European Union in 2012,
behind only Denmark and Cyprus, according to Eurostat.  Bayer’s MaterialScience plastics unit pays twice as much
for electricity in Germany than in the U.S., Christian Hartel, a
spokesman for the Leverkusen-based company, said by e-mail
yesterday.  “Energy-intense industries must also in the future be
partly disburdened from these high costs to remain competitive
in global markets,” Hartel said.  Waivers exempting companies from those costs are
“existential for energy-intensive companies,” Dieter Schweer
of Germany’s BDI industry association said in an e-mailed
statement. “Even the opening of an investigation can have
negative consequences on investments as companies then have to
make adequate provisions.”  Quickly Reform  The industry lobby group representing 100,000 companies
with 8 million employees urged the German government to
“quickly” reform the EEG clean-energy law.  The waivers, regulated by Germany’s EEG clean-energy law,
are being investigated by the commission. They exempt companies
from paying the full fee to finance the country’s renewable
expansion. Consumers have seen electricity bills climb this year
after the renewable fee jumped 47 percent to a record.  Germany this year authorized more than twice as many
waivers than in 2012, when 734 companies or units got exemptions
worth about 2.5 billion euros, according to data from the
Federal Office of Economics and Export Control and Germany’s
 Environment Ministry .  This year’s list includes ExxonMobil Production Deutschland
GmbH, cement maker  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , gas producer Linde Gas
Produktionsgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG and Vattenfall Europe
Mining AG.  Not Over  The commission’s preliminary investigation after a
complaint related to the EEG law isn’t over yet and further
developments aren’t expected before the summer break, Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the commission in Brussels, said July
15.  Germany is “confident” the country’s EEG doesn’t
constitute illegal state aid, Merkel’s chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert, told reporters in Berlin July 15. Merkel has said in
the past that Germany is in talks with the commission to revise
the law. Her government plans a fundamental overhaul of the EEG
after the Sept. 22 federal elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  