-- Merkel Aide Says U.S. Pledges Spy Information as Criticism Grows
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-07-16T08:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/merkel-aide-says-u-s-pledges-spy-information-as-criticism-grows.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s top
security official said U.S. authorities pledged to offer more
information on mass surveillance as the government in Berlin
came under increasing pressure over trans-Atlantic spying.  Interior Minister  Hans-Peter Friedrich , who was pilloried
by the opposition over the weekend for defending U.S. spying
practices after a visit to Washington, is due to appear today in
front of the lower house panel charged with overseeing
intelligence to brief lawmakers on his visit.  “We need explanations and more information about what
really happened,” Friedrich said in an interview with
broadcaster N-TV before attending the  Parliamentary Control
Panel . “The Americans have promised us that.”  Merkel, seeking a third term as chancellor in federal
elections on Sept. 22, pushed back against the opposition
criticism this week by demanding that U.S. personnel adhere to
German data-protection law when operating on German soil and
pressing for technology companies to disclose with whom they
share data.  German officials have bridled at revelations about the U.S.
National Security Agency’s newly disclosed Prism program as a
violation of data protection. Merkel’s top spokesman said July 1
that “we aren’t in the  Cold War  anymore,” following
allegations that the NSA had spied on European Union diplomats.  Merkel’s Social Democratic election challenger,  Peer Steinbrueck , said that Friedrich’s U.S. trip was a “complete
insult” and suggested Merkel had violated her oath of office by
not protecting Germans’ privacy.  In an interview with broadcaster ARD two days ago, the
chancellor was asked about allegations that U.S. surveillance
reached into the top echelons of the German government.  “I’m not aware of having been listened in on,” Merkel
said.  The German government will now push for a unified European
Union data-protection requiring companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  to disclose to whom they transfer data. Merkel
also joined members of her Cabinet who have urged an
international treaty to guarantee privacy protection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  