-- Tesla Falls on Goldman Sachs Price Target: Mover
-- B y   M e g a n   D u r i s i n
-- 2013-07-16T20:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/tesla-falls-on-goldman-sachs-price-target-mover.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  shares fell 14
percent, the most in more than 18 months, after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. set a target price more than 30 percent lower than
the electric-car maker’s close yesterday.  Tesla plunged to $109.05 at the close in  New York , the
biggest one-day decline since Jan. 13, 2012. Shares of the  Palo
Alto , California-based company have more than tripled this year,
compared with an 18 percent increase in the Russell 1000 Index.  Patrick Archambault , a Goldman Sachs auto analyst, set a
Tesla target price of $84, the average of three scenarios. That
compares with Tesla’s close of $127.26 yesterday and its record
$129.90 close on July 12. The report’s best-case scenario was a
target price of $113. Goldman Sachs cited “sustainability of
demand longer term” as among the risks for Tesla.  Tesla shares have surged as the popularity of its $69,900
Model S sedan helped generate a first-quarter profit, the
company’s first. The automaker is ramping up production of the
car and is preparing to introduce a sport-utility vehicle next
year.  Goldman Sachs also downgraded the  auto industry  to neutral.  “Auto stocks typically lag when rates rise,” Archambault
wrote. “This has occurred even in the face of rising demand.”  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said last month
the central bank will begin easing the pace of its current bond-buying purchases, leading to rising interest rates, once
unemployment improves. The announcement didn’t immediately hurt
the auto industry, which posted its fastest sales pace in June
in more than five years.  Separately, Tesla said it will report second-quarter
financial results on Aug. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Durisin in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mdurisin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  