-- MetLife Nears Systemic-Risk Tag on Latest U.S. Panel Review
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-07-16T22:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/metlife-nears-systemic-risk-tag-on-latest-u-s-panel-review-1-.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, was moved to the last stage of a regulatory review that
may impose extra Federal Reserve oversight.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of
regulators led by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, voted to move
New York-based MetLife into a third round of evaluation that may
label the company systemically important, the insurer said today
in a statement. The designation indicates a firm could endanger
the financial system if it were to fail.  “Not only does exposure to MetLife not threaten the
financial system, but I cannot think of a single firm that would
be threatened by its exposure to MetLife,” MetLife Chief
Executive Officer Steven Kandarian said in the statement. “The
life-insurance industry is a source of financial stability.”  Kandarian, 61, has said the insurer doesn’t have enough
“interconnectedness” with other companies to damage the
broader economy. The Fed can impose tighter capital rules on
companies named systemically important.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  General Electric
Co. (GE) ’s finance unit were named systemically important this month,
after entering the final stage of the designation process last
year.  Prudential (PRU)  Financial Inc., the second-largest U.S. life
insurer, received the risk label and is appealing the decision
to the council.  Banking Assets  MetLife wasn’t included in the initial round of
designations because it was already overseen by the Fed,
stemming from its ownership of a bank. The company sold deposits
to end the central bank’s oversight this year.  MetLife had $842 billion in assets as of March 31, while
Prudential held $724 billion. The companies invest in bonds and
stocks to back future payouts to holders of life-insurance
policies and savings products like annuities.  The FSOC has 10 voting members, including Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and the chairmen of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  MetLife and Prudential have been pressuring the Fed to
avoid bank-like capital rules for insurers that are declared
systemically important and subjected to Fed supervision.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 