-- Letta Says EU Members Underestimate ‘Huge Risk’ of U.K. Exit
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-07-16T20:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/letta-says-eu-members-underestimate-huge-risk-of-u-k-exit.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
said the chances of the U.K. leaving the European Union are
being underestimated by members, who should start planning now
for the changes needed to keep the group intact.  “In the European Union countries we are under-evaluating
the risk in two, three years of having the U.K. out of  Europe ,”
Letta said today in a question-and-answer conversation at
 Chatham House  in  London . “It is a huge risk.”  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and his  Conservative
Party  are pushing for a referendum on EU membership. Letta, in
his third month as premier, described himself at Chatham House
as a “committed pro-European.” He will meet Cameron tomorrow.  “We need treaty changes to allow the U.K. to remain on
board with a different link with Brussels,” Letta said. “We
have to prepare a discussion on trying to prevent this risk.”  Letta, 46, is urging the EU to embrace flexibility for non-euro members, like the U.K., as he pushes for greater
integration among the 17 countries participating in the monetary
union. At an EU summit in Brussels last month, Letta called on
euro allies to advance plans to build a banking union.  “We need an arrangement that can accommodate countries
that want to move toward greater political and economic
integration and countries who are satisfied with cooperation
around the single market,” Letta said.  Backlash  The EU has faced a backlash in public sentiment in
countries hardest hit by recession in the last two years. In
 Italy , the euro-skeptic Five Star Movement of Beppe Grillo won a
quarter of the votes in February elections, upending the
traditional balance of power. Five Star now acts as the main
lawmaker opposition to the ruling alliance led by Letta and
former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi .  Letta said he is concerned about an EU “legitimacy
crisis” in the eyes of voters and vowed to work with the U.K.
on reforming the union.  “We both need a Europe that is more concrete, less
rhetorical, more suited to the current global economy,” Letta
said. “One of the main irritants is a bureaucratic and
intrusive European Union regulation. We can cooperate together
on that regulation simplification and how to make the European
common institution leaner and more efficient.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  