-- Euro-Area Exports Decline for Second Month as Recession Lingers
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-07-16T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/euro-area-exports-decline-for-second-month-as-recession-lingers.html
Euro-area exports decreased for a
second month in May, led by  Germany , as the 17-nation currency
bloc struggled to emerge from a  record-long recession .  Exports fell a seasonally adjusted 2.3 percent from April,
when they dropped 1 percent, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today. May imports fell 2.2 percent
after a 0.6 percent increase, and the  trade surplus  decreased to
14.6 billion euros ($19 billion).  The euro-area economy, which has contracted for  six
straight quarters , probably stagnated in the three months
through June and will return to growth in the third quarter,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The
International Monetary Fund forecasts the euro economy to shrink
0.6 percent this year.  Europe faces the risk of prolonged economic stagnation
unless officials in the region pursue a strategy that
accelerates domestic demand, Lael Brainard, the U.S. Treasury
Department’s top international official, said yesterday. She
said the Group of 20 economies meeting later this week need to
take action to spur growth.  Exports from Germany, Europe’s largest economy, slumped 9
percent in May to 38.1 billion euros, today’s report showed.
French shipments fell 4.6 percent, while Italian and Spanish
exports rose 3.6 percent and 0.8 percent, respectively.  Today’s trade data followed Eurostat’s report on May
industrial output, which was down 1.3 percent from a year
earlier and fell 0.3 percent in the month.  ‘Satisfactory Progress’  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  said on July 12 that vehicle deliveries grew
5.5 percent in the first half from the year-earlier period,
driven by exports to the U.S. and Asia. Deliveries in Europe
were down 3.5 percent.  Europe’s largest carmaker “made satisfactory progress even
though market conditions were not always easy,” Christian Klingler, VW’s sales chief, said in a statement. “However, the
economic climate remains tense, especially in Europe.”  PSA Peugeot Citroen, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker,
reported a 9.8 percent drop in first-half vehicle sales because
of slumping demand in its home region and the end of component-kit deliveries to  Iran . Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin
on July 8 reiterated a prediction that the European car market
will contract 5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Brussels at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  