-- Levin Says Military Aid to Egypt Not Subject to a Cutoff
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-07-16T15:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/levin-says-military-aid-to-egypt-not-subject-to-a-cutoff.html
Senate Armed Services Committee
Chairman Carl Levin said U.S military assistance to  Egypt  isn’t
subject to a law requiring a cutoff of U.S. aid to an elected
government deposed in a military coup.  The Obama administration is reviewing whether the ouster of
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi requires suspending about $1.5
billion in U.S. aid, of which $1.3 billion is in the form of
military assistance.  A U.S. law requires denying “any assistance to the
government of any country whose duly elected head of government
is deposed by a military coup d’etat or decree,” or a coup “in
which the military plays a decisive role.”  Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said today that applies only to
non-military aid.  “We ought to suspend the aid which the law says needs to
be suspended,” Levin told reporters at a breakfast sponsored by
the Christian Science Monitor. He said the $1.3 billion in
military assistance could continue at the president’s
discretion.  President  Barack Obama  requested $1.55 billion in U.S. aid
to Egypt for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. Economic
assistance makes up about $256 million of that.  Egypt has been the second-largest recipient of U.S. foreign
aid since 1979, after  Israel , according to the Congressional
Research Service. The world’s largest Arab country has received
$1.3 billion a year in military aid since 1987.  Lawmakers have differed over whether U.S. aid should be
suspended.  ‘Law Clear’  “Our law is clear: U.S. aid is cut off when a
democratically elected government is deposed by military coup or
decree,” Senator Patrick Leahy, chairman of the Senate
Appropriations subcommittee that oversees the State Department
and foreign operations, said in a statement earlier this month.  Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, pledged to “review future aid
to the Egyptian government as we wait for a clearer picture.”  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
said in a statement that “the Egyptian military has long been a
key partner of the United States and a stabilizing force in the
region, and is perhaps the only trusted national institution in
Egypt today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  