-- Ex-Och-Ziff Team Gets Investcorp Seed for Kortright Fund
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-07-16T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/ex-och-ziff-team-gets-investcorp-seed-for-kortright-fund.html
Kortright Capital Partners LP, the
event-focused equity hedge-fund firm founded by  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC (OZM)  alumni Matthew Taylor and Ty Popplewell,
received seed capital from Investcorp.  Taylor and Popplewell started Kortright, which invests in
“opportunities arising from corporate change” in shares of
small- and mid-cap companies, in 2010, according to an
Investcorp statement that was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Before starting New York-based Kortright, which has $75
million in assets, Taylor and Popplewell worked together at
Daniel Och’s Och-Ziff. Taylor was a managing director at Och-Ziff from 2003 to 2008 and Popplewell as a senior analyst from
2005 to 2009, Taylor said yesterday in a telephone interview.
Event-driven fund managers typically seek to profit from
corporate events such as mergers, spinoffs and bankruptcies.  “A lot of the folks who do what we do are very big, they
leave a big wake behind them in small- and  mid-cap stocks ,”
Taylor said. The firm employs a “deeply fundamental investment
process,” according to the statement.  Investcorp, which provides startup capital of $50 million
to $100 million to alternative-investment firms, has investments
totaling $2 billion through its seeding program in five hedge
funds including Kortright, Nick Vamvakas, managing director and
head of development for Investcorp’s single-manager platform,
said in the same telephone interview.  Investcorp, based in Bahrain, had $11.5 billion in assets
as of Dec. 31. Its three businesses include corporate investment
in the U.S., Europe and the Gulf Cooperation Council countries;
real estate in the U.S.; and global hedge funds. It is publicly
traded on the Bahrain Bourse, runs its hedge-fund operations out
of New York and also has offices in  London  and Saudi Arabia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  