-- Mexico Captures Cartel Leader in Pena Nieto’s Biggest Bust
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 2013-07-16T16:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/mexico-captures-top-zetas-leader-in-pena-nieto-s-biggest-bust.html
Mexican armed forces captured the
head of the Zetas cartel, considered the nation’s most violent
criminal gang, marking President Enrique Pena Nieto’s first
major security achievement since taking office in December.  Miguel Angel Trevino Morales, known as “Z 40,” was taken
into custody near the northern border city of Nuevo Laredo by
armed forces who intercepted his pickup truck with a helicopter,
Deputy Interior Minister Eduardo Sanchez told reporters last
night. Trevino, 40, was unharmed. He was detained by marines
with a bodyguard and another man who appeared to be in charge of
cartel finances, Sanchez said. Eight weapons and $2 million were
seized during the operation.  Trevino’s capture comes as Pena Nieto pledges to use
intelligence information to bring down drug-related violence
that has left more than 60,000 dead since December 2006. The
Zetas have been tied to crimes including the mass killing of 265
migrants in northern Mexico and arson at a Monterrey casino that
left 52 dead in 2011. Four members of the gang were convicted in
the U.S. in May for laundering money from narcotics smuggling in
horse racing.  “If you’re going to reduce violence you have to go after
the most violent people,”  Eric Farnsworth , head of the
Washington office of the Council of the Americas, said in a
telephone interview today. “I think this shows that the
government of Mexico is serious about going after those people
who are creating havoc in Mexico.”  Gun Battle  Trevino was seen assuming leadership of the cartel after
former head Heriberto Lazcano was killed in a gun battle with
police in October. The investigation leading to the arrest
started when Pena Nieto took office, Sanchez said.  The Zetas were originally formed by the Gulf cartel as an
elite unit of hit men to target rival gangs. The group then
broke away and took control of criminal activities from
kidnapping and extortion to counterfeit goods over a swath of
territory including the states of Veracruz and Tamaulipas, which
borders  Texas .  The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration said Trevino “is
one of the most significant cartel leaders to be apprehended in
several years.”  “Trevino Morales, the head of the notoriously violent and
vicious Los Zetas cartel, has been a wanted man for years,” the
DEA said in an e-mailed statement today. “His ruthless
leadership has now come to an end.”  Violent Surge  Violence in Mexico spiked under the 2006-2012
administration of former President Felipe Calderon as he
deployed soldiers in areas where cartels operate, including the
Pacific states of Michoacan and Guerrero and the border region.  The Zetas have clashed with rival drug gangs including the
Sinaloa Cartel, believed to be led by Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzman, one of the world’s most wanted men. Clashes between the
Zetas and the Sinaloa cartel sparked a rise in homicides and
crime in Monterrey,  Mexico ’s largest city in the north and home
to some of the nation’s largest companies, including Cemex SAB,
Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB and Alfa SAB.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  