-- Fed Bond Rout No Europe Crisis as Sales Climb: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-07-16T15:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/fed-bond-rout-no-europe-crisis-as-sales-climb-credit-markets.html
Even as corporate bonds face the
worst losses since 2008, borrowers are still locking in cheaper
financing than when  Europe ’s common currency was in jeopardy of
breaking apart amid the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Relative yields on company bonds from the U.S. to Europe
and  Asia  widened as much as 42 basis points the past two months,
less than a third of the 140 basis-point surge from August to
October 2011, when European policy makers negotiated an accord
with  Greece ’s creditors to avoid a default that threatened to
unravel the  euro zone , according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. Dollar-denominated bond offerings surged last
week to $24.1 billion, the fastest pace in almost two months,
 data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  While the pace of debt sales will probably slow from the
unprecedented volumes earlier this year, investors are returning
to lend at interest rates that are 1.4 percentage points lower
than the 10-year average. Strategists at lenders from Barclays
Plc to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc foresee a pickup in
offerings from the 18-month low in June.  “Concern about corporate creditworthiness isn’t uppermost
in people’s minds right now,” Edward Marrinan, a macro credit
strategist at RBS Securities in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview. “The concern they have in their minds is
interest-rate volatility.”  Confidence Holds  Treasury yields  surged to the highest level in almost two
years after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  laid out a
potential timeline on June 19 for policy makers to begin slowing
monthly bond purchases this year. That spurred a 2.4 percent
decline last month for corporate bonds, the biggest loss since
October 2008, as average yields climbed to as high as 3.92
percent on June 25 from a record-low 3.09 percent on May 2,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Corporate
& High Yield Index.  The rout did little to shake investor confidence in company
creditworthiness. The extra yield corporate-bond buyers demand
to own the debt rather than similar-maturity Treasuries, which
climbed to as high as 235 basis points last month and was 224
basis points yesterday, is 42 basis points less than the average
of the past two years and down from a more than two-year high of
370 in October 2011, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show.  Markets Stabilize  Corporate-bond yields at 3.71 percent yesterday remained
1.39 percentage points below the three-year high reached in
October 2011 and compare with a 10-year average of 5.1 percent.
The securities have generated 1.3 percent of excess return over
government debt in 2013, even as they lose 0.8 percent of total
return, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “Positive sentiment has returned to the market with
greater rate stability,” Barclays Plc strategists Jeffrey Meli
and Bradley Rogoff wrote in a July 12 report. “We are as
positive on credit risk as we have been all year.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, Royal Bank of Canada, the
nation’s largest lender by assets, is planning a benchmark
offering of three-year covered bonds in the U.S. Vivarte SAS, a
French fashion retailer owned by Charterhouse Capital Partners
LLP, breached the terms on about 2.8 billion euros ($3.7
billion) of loans, according to three people with knowledge of
the situation.  Credit Benchmarks  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses or
to speculate on creditworthiness, rose from a more than six-week
low, climbing 0.9 basis point to a mid-price of 77.9 basis
points as of 11:36 a.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index , tied to 125
companies with investment-grade ratings, increased 1.1 to 106.4.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, decreased 1.4 basis points to 16.7 basis
points. The gauge typically narrows when investors favor assets
such as company debentures and widens when they seek the
perceived safety of  government securities .  RBC Bonds  Bonds of New York-based Morgan Stanley are the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, accounting for 4.8 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to data from
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  RBC may sell its covered bonds, expected to be rated Aaa by
Moody’s Investors Service, as soon as today, according to a
person with knowledge of the transaction. The notes, a form of
secured financing pioneered in 18th-century Prussia, are backed
by assets such as mortgages or loans and guaranteed by the
issuer, letting banks fund more cheaply than with traditional
debt and providing investors with top-rated securities.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Morgan Stanley, and Toronto-based
RBC are managing the offering, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because terms aren’t set. Benchmark sales are
typically at least $500 million.  Vivarte Breach  Vivarte’s ratio of earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization was 6.96 times at the end of May,
exceeding the limit of 6.05, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the matter is private. The Paris-based
company also breached its interest-cover ratio, a measure of how
easily it can pay interest. That ratio was 2.17 times in May,
below the minimum threshold of 2.25.  The owner of the Kookai clothing brand told its lenders
about the breach yesterday, the people said. Charterhouse has
five business days from the date of the infraction to address
the matter, they said.  Marc Lelandais, chairman and chief executive officer of
Vivarte, declined to comment on the breach. The company has 600
million euros of cash and no debt maturity issues in the next
few years, he said in an e-mailed statement. Officials at
Charterhouse in Paris declined to comment, citing company
policy.  Record Pace  Borrowers are returning to the corporate-bond market after
offerings in the U.S. fell to  $55.5 billion  in June, the least
since December 2011, Bloomberg data show. Dollar-denominated
deals increased last week to the most since  $36.8 billion  in the
five days ended May 24, Bloomberg data show.  The issuance is helping to keep sales worldwide of $2.11
trillion this year on pace with 2012, a record year with $3.98
trillion in offerings.  While issuance for the rest of the year isn’t likely to
match the $2 trillion sold during the first half of 2013, “risk
aversion of recent months will fade and investors’ hunger for
yield will reassert,” RBS strategists led by Marrinan said in a
June 28 report.  Barclays strategists predict that borrowers will sell as
much as $300 billion of speculative-grade bonds in the U.S. this
year. That’s about $90 billion more than had been issued through
yesterday, Bloomberg data show. They forecast $1 trillion of
dollar-denominated investment-grade bonds, about $383 billion
more than sales so far.  Fed Stimulus  “Because so much of the issuance that we’ve seen over the
last few years have been refinancing-based, companies can be
smart about timing, about when they want to come to market,”
said Rogoff, head of credit strategy at Barclays in New York.  During the selloff last month investors reduced their
holdings of the debt, with concern mounting that interest rates
would rise faster than they initially expected as the U.S.
central bank began to wean the economy from its bond purchases.  The Fed has helped spur more than $5.8 trillion of U.S.
company debt sales since the end of 2008 by suppressing
borrowing costs through bond purchases and holding its benchmark
 interest rate  at almost zero, Bloomberg data show. The
securities have returned an annualized 11.4 percent during that
period after losing 10.9 percent in 2008, according to the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Index.  With such easy access to debt markets, corporate defaults
for the riskiest borrowers have dropped. The trailing 12-month
global speculative-grade default rate fell to 2.8 percent at the
end of June from 3.1 percent during the same period last year,
according to Moody’s.  “It just takes a little while for issuers to get more
comfortable with the new rate environment,” Simon Mayes, head
of the financial institutions group syndicate at BNP Paribas SA
in  New York , said in a telephone interview. Borrowers “are
still suffering from a little bit of sticker shock in terms of
yields on deals that they could have issued a couple of months
ago versus today.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  