-- Fed’s George Supports Tapering QE on ‘Sustained’ Jobs Gains
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-07-16T16:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/fed-s-george-backs-tapering-qe-on-sustained-job-market-gains.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President Esther George, who has consistently voted this year
against record Fed stimulus, said the central bank should soon
taper its $85 billion in monthly bond buying amid signs of
steady gains in the labor market.  The Fed should “begin to adjust those purchases” of
Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, George said today in
an interview with Fox Business Network.  “The labor market has shown now for the last six months
pretty steady gains of close to 200,000 per month” in payroll
growth, she said. “That is a good indicator that there has been
sustained improvement here and I think it would be appropriate
given the size of our  balance sheet  and the level of
accommodation that we begin to make adjustments that reflect
that improvement.”  George, 55, dissented this year against all four Federal
Open Market Committee decisions to press on with bond buying
that’s swollen the central bank’s balance sheet to a record $3.5
trillion, saying the stimulus may destabilize markets and
increase inflation risks. Her comments today, two weeks before
policy makers are scheduled to meet in Washington, reiterated
her stance that the risks of bond buying outweigh the benefits.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  extended declines after
George’s remarks, dropping 0.4 percent from yesterday’s record
close to 1,675.57 at 12:19 p.m. in  New York . The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury was little changed at 2.53 percent.  “Quantitative easing has served a role during the course
of the crisis but more recently the open-ended program has
raised questions for me about its cost relative to its
benefits,” George said today. “As the economy has continued to
recover, even though that’s been slow, we have seen positive
trends both in the labor market and housing.”  Payrolls increased by 195,000 workers for a second month in
June, lifting the six-month average gain to 201,800 jobs, Labor
Department data show. The jobless rate held at  7.6 percent ,
close to a four-year low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  