-- First Brain Wave Test Cleared by U.S. to Check for ADHD
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-07-16T13:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/first-brain-wave-test-cleared-by-u-s-to-check-for-adhd.html
The first medical device to help
doctors diagnose attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder by
scanning brain waves was cleared for sale by U.S. regulators.  Neba Health’s EEG-based assessment system for children ages
6 to 17 years old takes about 20 minutes and records the number
of times brain waves are given off each second. It’s designed to
be used jointly with a doctor’s clinical assessment, the Food
and Drug Administration said yesterday in a  statement .  ADHD, which causes inattentiveness, over-activity and
impulsiveness, is one of the most common mental disorders in
children, affecting 9 percent of adolescents, according to the
American Psychiatric Association. The ratio of the two standard
brain waves, theta and beta, is higher in children with ADHD,
the FDA said in announcing its approval.  “Diagnosing ADHD is a multistep process based on a
complete medical and psychiatric exam,” Christy Foreman,
director of the Office of Device Evaluation at the FDA’s Center
for Devices and Radiological Health, said in the statement.
“The Neba system along with other clinical information may help
health-care providers more accurately determine if ADHD is the
cause of a behavioral problem.”  Neba, based in Augusta,  Georgia , is closely held. The
device was cleared using the FDA’s de novo process for low- to
moderate-risk devices that is less rigorous than the regular
approval system. Neba tested the device in 275 patients and
found it helped better diagnose ADHD than clinical assessment
alone, the FDA said.  While the cause of ADHD is unknown, a combination of
environmental and genetic factors have been singled out by some
researchers as possible contributors.  Medicines for ADHD include amphetamines like Shire Plc’s
Adderall XR, as well as other drugs like Novartis AG’s Ritalin,
Johnson & Johnson’s Concerta, Shire’s Vyvanse and Intuniv and
Eli Lilly & Co.’s Strattera. Treatments also include parent and
child education, behavior management and counseling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  