-- Ford Offers Fix After Hybrid Mileage Comes Up Short
-- B y   M e g a n   D u r i s i n
-- 2013-07-17T20:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/ford-says-it-s-boosting-fuel-economy-of-2013-hybrids.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  is offering free
software upgrades to owners of its 2013 model-year hybrid
vehicles intended to improve fuel economy after the models fell
short of projected mileage levels.  Ford is sending notices about the voluntary upgrades to
owners of the C-Max, Fusion and Lincoln MKZ hybrids, Group Vice
President Raj Nair, the company’s product-development chief,
told reporters yesterday in Dearborn,  Michigan . He declined to
estimate how much the program will cost Ford.  The upgrades are designed to boost mileage in real-world
driving conditions such as those simulated by  Consumer Reports 
magazine. In those 2012 tests, the Fusion and C-Max hybrids
earned 17 percent to 21 percent less than Ford’s promise of 47
miles (76 kilometers) per gallon. The Fusion achieved 39 mpg and
the C-Max averaged 37 mpg in combined city and highway driving
in the magazine’s test.  The software fix is “definitely the right thing to do,”
said Ed Kim, industry analyst for AutoPacific Inc. in Tustin,
 California . Ford’s hybrids were “absolutely developed and
calibrated to provide a strong EPA number,” he said, referring
to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency mileage ratings. “The
real-world performance was found not to be as good as that.”
Ford used the 47 mpg EPA rating in its marketing.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Prius averaged 44 mpg in Consumer
Reports’ test, 12 percent less than the EPA’s combined  rating  of
50 mpg for the car, which is smaller than the mid-size Fusion.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has made fuel economy
a cornerstone since taking the helm of the Dearborn-based
automaker in 2006. Environmental rules in the U.S.,  Europe  and
 Japan  have pushed carmakers to offer more vehicles that don’t
emit climate-warming gases and consume less fuel.  ‘Increased Variability’  After Consumer Reports disclosed the results of its
testing, Ford said in December that driving styles and
conditions affect real-world mileage of hybrid vehicles.  “I think all hybrids have experienced increased
variability” with their fuel economy, Nair told reporters
yesterday. “This will help that.”  Nair said the software fix is “just like you get upgrades
on your cellphone or on your apps.”  The Ford program affects about 77,000 vehicles and the fix
can be performed at Ford dealerships, Nair said. Improvements
include raising the maximum pure electric speed to 85 miles per
hour from 62 mph and shortening engine warm-up time, he said.  Ford’s hybrid and plug-in versions of the Fusion sedan and
C-Max wagon boosted its U.S. first-half electric-drive
deliveries to 46,197, more than five times its year-earlier
volume.  Ford rose 1.1 percent to $16.78 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 30 percent this year, compared with an 18
percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Durisin in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 mdurisin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  