-- Four People Die as Asylum Seeker Boat Capsizes Off Australia
-- B y   E d w a r d   J o h n s o n   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-07-17T07:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/four-people-killed-as-asylum-seeker-boat-capsizes-off-australia.html
Four people drowned after a boat
carrying suspected asylum seekers capsized off  Australia , the
second fatal incident in a week as the government seeks to ease
voter discontent over the flow of refugees ahead of elections.  Four bodies were recovered and 144 survivors were picked up
by navy ships that were escorting the boat to  Christmas Island ,
an Australian territory used as an immigration detention center,
the Customs and Border Protection Service said in a  statement 
yesterday. An infant boy drowned July 12 in a similar incident
north of Christmas Island in which 88 people were rescued.  The failure to cut the number of asylum seekers attempting
to reach Australia by sea has eroded support for the governing
 Labor party , with opposition leader  Tony Abbott  pledging to
“stop the boats.” Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , who last month
ousted  Julia Gillard , has made tackling the issue a priority
before elections that must be held by the end of November.  The Australian Maritime Safety Authority said an aircraft
was monitoring a boat with about 80 people on board northeast of
Christmas Island after receiving a distress call earlier today.
A merchant vessel is on its way to assist, the authority said in
an e-mailed statement.  More than 800 people, many from war-torn countries that
have used Indonesia as a stepping stone to seek asylum in
Australia, have died en route since October 2009, according to
the Department of Immigration.  Rudd traveled to Jakarta this month and secured Indonesian
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s support to host a meeting
of officials from asylum seekers’ home countries, including
Afghanistan, Iran and Myanmar.  The conference may be held around Aug. 20, Teuku Faizasyah,
a presidential spokesman, told reporters in Jakarta yesterday.  Processing Camps  Successive governments have struggled with limiting boat
arrivals. Then-leader Gillard last year reopened processing
centers in Papua New Guinea and Nauru, a return to former Prime
Minister  John Howard ’s policy of holding applicants in offshore
processing camps or remote onshore detention centers.  “The only way to stop the deaths is to stop the boats,”
Abbott told reporters today. The opposition leader has said the
coalition’s policy, should it win office, would include towing
vessels out of Australian waters. Rudd has said such a policy
risks creating conflict with  Indonesia .  “This tow back policy, aired at a time of political
campaign, must be studied carefully,”  Faizasyah said
yesterday. “In principle, something that’s dangerous to humans
we cannot support.”  “Every policy taken by a neighbor must take into account
the root cause of the problem,” he added. “If a policy is then
applied unilaterally and causes damage to another country,
certainly that’s not wise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  