-- Froome’s BSkyB-Backed Cycling Team Nears Lead in Pay Race
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-07-17T16:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/froome-s-bskyb-backed-cycling-team-nears-lead-in-pay-race.html
Nairo Quintana and the rest of his
 Movistar team  are giving the bigger-spending Sky a run for its
money at the Tour de France.  The 23-year-old Colombian, who maintained fifth place today
ahead of three straight mountain stages, matched Sky’s race
leader Chris Froome for all but the final half-mile of a 13-mile
climb atop Mont Ventoux last weekend.  Kenyan-born Briton Froome, 28, extended his lead to 4
minutes, 34 seconds by winning a time trial today. Quintana can
achieve a top-three finish in the race that ends July 21,
teammate Alejandro Valverde said.  “Nairo wants to win almost every single mountain-top
finish,” Valverde told reporters. “He almost managed to stay
with Froome until the end.”  Movistar spent 5.91 million euros ($7.7 million) on pay in
2011, less than half Sky’s outlay, according to the latest
financial data filed by the teams’ parent companies, Abarca
Sports SL and Tour Racing Ltd.  Movistar is named after the mobile-phone brand of
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Spain ’s biggest phone company and main sponsor of
the team. Sky is backed by the U.K.’s biggest pay-television
operator  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,  News Corp . and  Sky
Italia .  Team Sky’s salary costs were 11 million pounds ($16.6
million) in 2011, more than nine other squads that disclosed the
figures. It had 83 employees that year, compared with 46 for
Movistar and more than twice as many as Sojasun, the smallest
French team at the race.  Spending Race  Professional cycling is a spending race on a smaller scale
than Premier League soccer and Formula One auto racing,
according to Ulrich Lacher, a director at Cologne-based sports
research consultancy Repucom, which is a consultant to the  Omega
Pharma team . Cycling teams typically spend 75 percent of their
budget on salaries, according to Repucom.  Garmin-Sharp  manager  Jonathan Vaughters  said Sky devotes
more money to sports science than any other team as it seeks an
edge on everything from bike aerodynamics to nutrition and
fitness.  “Sky has an army of trainers, doctors and nutritionists,”
Miguel Madariaga, the former manager of the Euskaltel team, said
by phone.  To be sure, Sky doesn’t have the highest payroll. BMC
Racing spends a “little more” than 15 million euros this year
on salaries for 80 staff, team co-owner Andy Rihs said by phone.
Much of that goes to four “star” riders including 2011 Tour
winner  Cadel Evans , who each earn between 3 and 4 million euros
a year, Rihs said.  Evans Falters  Evans finished almost nine minutes behind Froome in the
stage to Mount Ventoux. Evans is 18th overall, six places below
Valverde, who was second before a mechanical problem last week
put him out of contention.  Sky is spending more efficiently than BMC, Vaughters said.  “BMC says ‘That rider has won has a bunch of races, let’s
hire him,’” Vaughters said in an interview. “Sky is using
quantitative analysis to come up with the best results,
including which riders to hire.”  Vaughters said his Garmin-Sharp team has a similar approach
to Sky but on a smaller scale because it has less money, with a
payroll this year of about $9.5 million that was smaller the
last two years. The squad’s best-placed rider, Daniel Martin, is
10th overall.  The smallest teams at the race like  Sojasun  don’t have
enough resources to compete with Sky and so their primary goal
is to win a stage, Lacher said. Sojasun’s highest-placed rider
is Maxime Mederel in 36th.  “Even if you are a rider on a small team and get the
yellow jersey you are probably not going to have a strong enough
team to defend you against attacks,” Lacher said. “Cycling is
much more of a team sport than most people realize.”  Eleven Tour de  France  team payrolls in euros, according to the
latest published financial statements of their parent companies
or estimates from team executives:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff at the Tour de France in Gap at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at in London 
 celser@bloomberg.net  