-- German Bunds Rise on Decline in Confidence; Spain Auctions Bills
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-07-16T15:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/german-10-year-bonds-little-changed-before-zew-confidence-report.html
Germany’s 10-year government bonds
advanced for the third time in four days as investor confidence
in  Europe ’s largest economy unexpectedly declined this month,
supporting the case for central-bank action to stimulate growth.  Two-year yields slipped as a report showed that inflation
in the euro area stayed below the  European Central Bank ’s 2
percent target in June. Bund yields approached the  lowest  in
four weeks before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
testimony to Congress tomorrow amid speculation he’ll give more
details on when U.S. stimulus will be slowed. Spanish two-year
notes rose as the country sold 4 billion euros ($5.25 billion)
of short-term debt.  “If there is an economy that needs further accommodation,
it is the European economy,” said  Michael Markovich , head of
global interest-rate strategy at Credit Suisse Group AG in
Zurich. “The bund seems well priced now. Political uncertainty
is still a big problem and this should weigh negatively on the
periphery,” he said, referring to bonds from the region’s
lower-rated nations.  Germany’s  10-year bund yield  fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.55 percent at 4:49 p.m. London time
after dropping to 1.54 percent on July 12, the lowest since June
19. The 1.5 percent bond due in May 2023 advanced 0.27, or 2.70
euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 99.565. The two-year yield
also declined three basis points, to 0.09 percent.  German Confidence  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, fell to
36.3 from 38.5 in June. That’s the first decline in three
months. Economists forecast an increase to 40, according to the
median of 37 estimates in a  Bloomberg News (GRZEWI)  survey.  The Spanish two-year note yield fell four basis points to
2.03 percent, while the rate on similar-maturity Italian debt
was little changed at 1.70 percent.  Spain  sold 1.63 billion euros of six-month bills and 2.42
billion euros of one-year bills.  Annual  consumer-price growth  in the euro region quickened
to 1.6 percent from 1.4 percent in May, in line with an initial
estimate on July 1, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. Prices rose 0.1 percent in the month,
while the annual core-inflation rate, excluding volatile costs
such as energy, alcohol and tobacco, was 1.2 percent.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  this month took what he called
an “unprecedented” step and told investors that  interest rates 
would stay low as the economy struggles to emerge from
recession. The ECB’s benchmark rate is a record low 0.5 percent.  Bernanke Testimony  Bernanke is scheduled to deliver his semi-annual monetary
policy report to Congress this week, starting tomorrow at the
House Financial Services Committee. The Fed purchases $85
billion of Treasuries and mortgage debt each month as part of
its quantitative-easing program to cap borrowing costs.  “Investors are in wait-and-see mode ahead of Bernanke’s
key semi-annual testimony,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh.
“Bunds should be confined to a narrow trading range today.”  Volatility on Belgian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of the Netherlands and  Austria ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  German bonds handed investors a loss of 0.9 percent this
year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes. Spanish securities returned 5.5 percent and Italy’s
gained 2.3 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  