-- German Investor Confidence Unexpectedly Drops in July
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-07-16T09:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/german-investor-confidence-unexpectedly-drops-in-july.html
German investor confidence
unexpectedly dropped in July, adding to signs that the  Europe ’s
largest economy is struggling to gather strength.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, fell to
36.3 from 38.5 in June. That’s the first decline in three
months. Economists forecast a gain to 40, according to the
median of 37 estimates in a  Bloomberg News (GRZEWI)  survey.  German industrial production, factory orders and exports
all slid in May. While unemployment dropped in June and the Ifo
institute’s measure of business confidence rose, the  European
Central Bank  says risks to the economic outlook in the euro
area, Germany’s biggest trading partner, remain on the downside.
In an unprecedented step to reassure investors, ECB President
 Mario Draghi  committed on July 4 to keeping  interest rates  low
for an extended period of time.  “Signals have been very contradictory,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in  Frankfurt . “Sentiment
indicators have been good, concurrent indicators were rather
weak, but I’m not too pessimistic for the rest of the year.
Uncertainty is slowly waning and the ECB’s forward guidance
should provide some support.”  Growth Revision  The ECB’s pledge on rates followed a June 19 announcement
by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that the U.S. may
phase out bond purchases by the middle of next year. That sent
global stocks and bonds tumbling, boosting sovereign yields in
Europe’s debt-strapped periphery.  ECB Executive Board member Vitor Constancio said the
promise to keep rates at the present level or lower was
“successful in stabilizing financial markets.” Germany’s
benchmark DAX index has gained about 4 percent since Draghi’s
announcement of forward guidance.  Still, the  International Monetary Fund  last week downgraded
its economic outlook for the euro area. The Washington-based
lender now predicts gross domestic product in the 17-nation
region will decline 0.6 percent before rising 0.9 percent in
2014. It forecasts German growth of 0.3 percent this year and
1.3 percent next.  The Bundesbank said on June 17 that GDP should have
improved “markedly” in the second quarter, while warning of
signs of a potential slowdown in coming months. Factory orders
unexpectedly fell 1.3 percent in May from April, the second
decline in as many months, and industrial output slid 1 percent,
more than economists predicted. Exports dropped 2.4 percent.  Kloeckner & Co SE, the German steel trader part-owned by
the Knauf family, expects a pretax loss this year because of the
industry’s crisis in Europe, Chief Financial Officer Marcus
Ketter told  Germany ’s Boersen-Zeitung on July 13.  “We’re in for a very strong second quarter, followed by
weaker growth in the second half of the year,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“Uncertainty in financial markets has dropped considerably.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  