-- Goldman Sachs Is ‘Comfortable’ With U.S. Leverage Ratio
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-07-16T16:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/goldman-sachs-is-comfortable-with-u-s-leverage-ratio.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Financial Officer Harvey Schwartz said the firm is “very
comfortable” with its ability to meet a proposed U.S. minimum
ratio of capital to assets.  Schwartz, speaking on a conference call with analysts and
investors today, declined to estimate where the  leverage ratio 
stands for the parent company or the bank subsidiary. Under the
U.S. plan, the company would need capital equal to 5 percent of
assets and the bank unit must have 6 percent.  Goldman Sachs will wait to see how the U.S. proposal
changes before taking action, Schwartz said. Earlier this year,
he told  investors  the New York-based bank had benefited from not
acting on a proposed rule on risk weighting for mortgages, a
regulation that was later softened.  “This is a proposed rule, so let’s see how the dialogue
goes with regulators,” Schwartz said. “Predicting rules and
responding can be incredibly costly, you can get wildly
misdirected.”  The proposed leverage ratios for the biggest U.S. banks go
beyond the 3 percent global minimum requirement that the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  approved to help prevent
another financial crisis. The changes would make eight lenders
fund more of their assets with capital that can absorb losses
instead of with borrowed money.  Seeking Specifics  While Schwartz said Goldman Sachs won’t have to make major
adjustments, he added that the firm hasn’t had time to
thoroughly examine its  ratios  and wants more information on the
rules. Analysts pushed him to be more specific, citing rival
banks that gave figures for their holding companies or disclosed
whether they met the proposed minimums.  “What I hear you saying is, ‘Trust us, we’ll be there,’”
Mike Mayo, an analyst at CLSA Ltd., said on the conference call.
“On the other hand, you’re not disclosing a number like your
peers have done, and perhaps other peers will do. So on a
disclosure basis, you’re behind peers.”  Schwartz said the firm viewed the compliance date of Jan.
1, 2018, as “miles away,” and noted that the the proposal was
announced last week.  “We are all subject to having sort of knee-jerk reactions
to these proposed rules when they come out,” said Schwartz, 49.
“The regulators consistently, at least so far, have been very
thoughtful about the glide path.”  Dividend Impact  While banks would have more than four years to comply,
lenders may have to retain some capital to meet the requirements
that they otherwise could pay out through dividends or share
repurchases. Goldman Sachs, led by Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 58, returned $5.55 billion to shareholders last
year, according to its annual regulatory filing.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank, said its ratio
averaged 4.9 percent in the second quarter and in June exceeded
the 5 percent minimum. The New York-based company hasn’t
calculated a ratio for its deposit-taking unit, CFO John Gerspach said yesterday. He said the ratio was about 6 percent
in March.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the fourth-biggest lender, exceeds both
minimums, CEO  John Stumpf , 59, said last week.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank, said last week
that both its holding company, which had a 4.7 percent ratio,
and deposit-taking subsidiary fall short of the proposed
minimums. CEO  Jamie Dimon , 57, criticized the plan for going
further than international requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  