-- Goldman Sees RBI Inflation Focus as Curve Inverted: India Credit
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-07-16T03:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/goldman-sees-rbi-inflation-focus-as-curve-inverted-india-credit.html
India ’s  bond market  is the most
pessimistic on the economy since the global credit crisis as a
plunge in the rupee prompts the central bank to shift its policy
focus back to fighting inflation.  The yield on two-year sovereign notes rose 41 basis points
since May 31 to 7.73 percent, 17 basis points more than 10-year
debt, as the currency slid 5.7 percent in  Asia ’s worst loss. The
 yield curve  is near the most inverted since 2008, a sign
investors expect more economic weakness. In  China , securities
due in a decade offer 33 basis points  more  than two-year ones.  Deutsche Bank AG last week joined Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in scrapping forecasts that the  Reserve Bank  of India will cut
rates this month for a fourth time in 2013. The  Reserve Bank of
India  yesterday boosted two of its lending rates by two
percentage points each, while holding the benchmark repurchase
rate at 7.25 percent, and said it will sell  government bonds 
this week to drain cash from the financial system.  “The bond market is dealing with uncertain times,” A.S. Thiyaga Rajan, a senior managing director at Aquarius Investment
Advisors Pte., which oversees about $350 million, said in an
interview from  Singapore  yesterday. “Investor confidence in
India is very low as the economy isn’t showing any signs of
improvement. Not too long ago, people were betting  interest
rates  will be cut, totally unaware the rupee would go south like
this. In the immediate term, a rate cut is out of question.”  Rate Increase  Policy makers raised two interest rates to help steady the
rupee, according to a statement on the central bank’s website
late yesterday. The bank increased both the marginal standing
facility and the  bank rate  to 10.25 percent from 8.25 percent.  RBI Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  kept the  repurchase  rate at
7.25 percent in June, after lowering it by 25 basis points each
in May, March and January, as the rupee’s plunged threatened to
spur inflation. The benchmark wholesale-price index rose 4.86
percent last month, an official report showed yesterday, after a
4.7 percent increase in May that was the smallest since October
2009.  Goldman Sachs pulled forecasts for further reductions in
Indian rates in the fiscal year through March 2014 after the
rupee fell past 60 per dollar for the first time on June 26.
Deutsche Bank dropped its call for a rate cut this month,
according to a report dated July 12. The Indian currency, which
touched a record low of 61.2125 on July 8, declined 0.4 percent
to 59.8950 yesterday.  Industrial Output  “Any further reduction in interest rates can happen only
when the rupee stabilizes,” N.S. Venkatesh, the Mumbai-based
head of treasury at  IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI) , said in a phone interview
yesterday. “The industrial-production numbers show we are
slowing down but with the currency at these levels, the central
bank may find it difficult to create an ambience for growth.”  Indian investors are betting for the first time since 2011
that borrowing costs will be higher in a year’s time, swaps
show. One-year forward contracts, in which rates to be exchanged
are agreed on 12 months in advance, have climbed  above  the price
to swap payments immediately for the first time since May 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread is now 16
basis points, compared with minus 28 at the end of March.  The yield on  10-year (GIND10YR)  sovereign notes rose 31 basis points,
or 0.31 percentage point, since May 31 to 7.56 percent as global
funds cut  holdings  of local debt by more than $8 billion from a
record $38.5 billion on May 21, according to exchange data. The
nation’s yield curve was last inverted in 2008, when inflation
averaged 8.7 percent and the rupee tumbled 19 percent.  ‘Coming to Standstill’  The relatively lower longer-term yields signal expectations
that policy makers will resume monetary easing to support
growth, according to Peerless Funds Management Co. India’s
industrial output shrank 1.6 percent in May from a year earlier,
the  first  contraction in five months, a government report showed
on July 12.  “Manufacturing activity is nearly coming to a
standstill,” Ganti N. Murthy, head of fixed income in Mumbai at
Peerless Funds, which manages the equivalent of $756 million in
assets, said in a phone interview yesterday. “The RBI may not
cut rates this month but it may choose to maintain an
accommodative stance given this slowdown. The long-term view is
that rates have to come down.”  Bond risk in India is climbing. The cost to insure the
bonds of government-controlled  State Bank of India (SBIN) , seen as a
proxy for the sovereign, for five years rose 41 basis points in
the past three months to 246, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in privately negotiated markets.  “We expect the RBI to stay on the sideline during the July
monetary-policy meeting as it would be prudent to wait to see
the pass-through impact of the rupee’s correction,” Deutsche
Bank economists led by Singapore-based Taimur Baig wrote in the
July 12 report. “The best the central bank can do for the time
being is to keep liquidity ample and ensure rupee stability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  