-- Gold Slump Revives Hedges Scrapped During Bull Run: Commodities
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-07-17T14:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/gold-slump-revives-hedges-scrapped-during-bull-run-commodities.html
Tumbling gold prices are raising the
prospect of a return to hedging - a strategy that’s been shunned
by investors and producers who spent at least $10 billion at the
end of the last decade unwinding forward sales.  “You can’t just stick your head in the sand and pray that
gold is going to go back up again,” Gavin Thomas, chief
executive officer of Sydney-based  Kingsgate Consolidated Ltd. (KCN) ,
operator of  Thailand ’s biggest gold mine, said by phone. He’s
considering hedging despite investors’ resistance. “Hedging is
a call on gold. If you believe it’s going up you don’t hedge, if
you believe it’s going down you do hedge.”  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG) ,  Russia ’s second-largest producer, and
 Australia ’s  OceanaGold Corp. (OGC)  have begun hedging and brokers
including  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  are flagging more may follow to
bolster revenue and ensure debt servicing as prices are forecast
to extend losses. Gold is heading for its first annual drop
since 2000 and any move toward forward sales of output could
accelerate declines, according to Bank Julius Baer & Co.  “The days of being beholden to a religious belief that the
gold price will rise are gone, company directors have to be
cognizant of that,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1
billion in equities, including gold companies, at Pengana
Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “There are very few producers who
don’t have problems. A lot of them have large debts or high
costs. Producers have got to look at” hedging, he said.  Bull Run  Hedging involves mining companies selling future output at
fixed prices to secure loans and protect margins. The practice
fell out of favor in the past 10 years amid gold’s longest bull
run in at least nine decades.  Investors pressured producers to unwind their hedge books
as prices soared sevenfold during bullion’s winning streak.
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  spent $2.6 billion in 2010 to wind up its
hedge book, while  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the largest producer, took
a $5.6 billion charge in the third quarter of 2009 to eliminate
hedging.  “It would be a negative impact on price, the more hedging
you see, because what it basically does is to take a stream of
gold and sells it into the market,” Tyler Broda, a London-based
analyst at Nomura International Plc, said by phone, adding that
producers already may have missed the chance to lock in prices.
“At the top of the cycle, you should have seen mining companies
start to hedge.”  Gold, which hit a 34-month low on June 28, is heading for
the first annual drop in 13 years and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
forecasts it will reach $1,050 by the end of 2014. Gold futures
for December delivery rose 0.2 percent to $1,295 at 10:23 a.m.
in New York.  Increase Forecast  Standard Chartered Plc forecasts the net amount of gold
hedged will soar more than 16-fold to 500 metric tons by 2017
from 30 tons this year. Fitch Ratings Ltd. predicted last month
that increased royalty sales, forward sales and gold price
hedging may occur for less well-capitalized companies.  “If it’s cheaper to hedge than to issue paper at deep
discounts, then it makes sense,” Mark Bristow, CEO of  Randgold
Resources Ltd. (RRS) , said in Johannesburg on July 10, adding his
company isn’t against hedging.  A revival of hedging may be a last resort for producers
from Toronto to Melbourne who have announced plans to trim
spending, sell mines, cut staff and reduce high-cost production
in response to a decline in the price of gold that could shave
about $10 billion from earnings, according to data compiled by
New Jersey-based Kenneth Hoffman at Bloomberg Industries.  Forced to Hedge?  Cutting costs “might not be sufficient given the recent
acceleration in the correction of the gold price,” and some
producers, including Barrick may be forced to hedge, Philipp Lienhardt, an analyst at  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , said in a June
28 note to clients.  While hedging made sense in the past for Barrick, the
company now has other options, its CEO Jamie Sokalsky told the
Bloomberg Canada Summit in Toronto on May 21. Andy Lloyd, a
Barrick spokesman, declined to comment.  OceanaGold, a top 10 Australian gold miner by market value,
said June 27 it would hedge 115,650 ounces of production at its
Reefton mine in New Zealand over the next two years as the
project moves toward care and maintenance.  “It’s just a risk mitigation step -- had the gold price
stayed up where it was, we wouldn’t have had to do it,” Mick Wilkes, CEO of the Melbourne-based company, said in a phone
interview. It doesn’t plan additional hedging, Wilkes said.  ‘Hero to Zero’  With gold dropping from $1,600, “you’re starting to hear
conversations from producers about hedging,” said Michael Haigh, head of commodities research at Societe Generale, who in
April correctly predicted gold’s rout. It’s likely to be the
start of a trend, the bank said in a report last month.  “On the day you put a hedge in, within the next day it is
either the right decision or the wrong decision, it never stays
static,” said Peter Bowler, managing director of  Beadell
Resources Ltd. (BDR) , which hedged 195,000 ounces of gold at $1,600 an
ounce over three years in April 2012 under the terms of a
financing agreement. “You go from a hero to zero in this game
fairly quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in  Melbourne  at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  