-- Greece’s Labor Unions Hold General Strike Over Job Cuts
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2013-07-16T12:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/greece-s-labor-unions-hold-general-strike-over-job-cuts.html
Greek labor unions held their third
general strike of the year as lawmakers in  Athens  began a two-day debate on legislation demanded by creditors to cut thousands
of civil-service jobs.  Government services were shut and transport disrupted today
as about 18,000 protesters marched to parliament in central
Athens, according to police estimates. No clashes occurred
between police and protesters, police spokesman Takis
Papapetropoulos said. Civil-aviation workers held a four-hour
work stoppage prompting flight delays and cancellations.  Lawmakers from the main opposition Syriza party at one
point left the parliament to unfurl a banner in front of the
building’s main entrance which read: “No to job cuts in the
private and public sectors.”  Greek stocks and bonds gained today, with the 10-year yield
falling 7 basis points to 10.5 percent and the main  stock index 
adding 1 percent at 2:55 p.m. in Athens.  The strike is the latest challenge from unions to Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras, whose bill includes provisions to push
through a plan to put 25,000 public employees on notice for
possible dismissal. His government must pass the measures for
the country’s euro-area and International Monetary Fund
creditors to sign off on the next loan disbursements from
 Greece ’s 240 billion-euro ($314 billion) bailout.  Schaeuble Visit  The unions have also called for a rally outside the
parliament building tomorrow evening as the debate on the bill
approaches its climax. A roll-call vote will come around
midnight, hours before the scheduled visit of German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble .  About 4,200 teachers, school janitors and employees at the
Administration Reform and E-Governance Ministry will be placed
in a “reallocation program” by the end of July. They will be
joined in September by as many as 8,300 municipal police
officers under the plan, which aims to deploy surplus staff to
areas with needs. Employees will have to accept any job offer
provided or face dismissal.  Senior euro-area financial officials plan a conference call
on July 24 to discuss the latest bailout payment, a European
Union official said today on condition of anonymity.  Samaras’s coalition was shaken last month after the
departure of the Democratic Left Party following the closure of
state broadcaster ERT. Samaras’s New Democracy party must now
rely on its historic rival, the socialist Pasok party. The two
control 155 of the Greek parliament’s 300 seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  