-- Greek Coalition Faces Parliament Test on Job Cuts
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-07-17T11:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/greek-coalition-government-faces-parliament-test-over-job-cuts.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
faces the first test of his revamped coalition today as he seeks
parliamentary approval of austerity measures to unlock bailout
funds.  Greek unions, which held the third general strike of the
year yesterday, demonstrated again today in central Athens and
will rally outside the parliament building this evening as a
two-day debate on the bill approaches its climax. A roll-call
vote will come around midnight, hours before the scheduled visit
of German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble .  “We have to be realistic, the country has taken on
specific targets to continue receiving financing,”
Administration Reform and E-Governance Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said in the debate today. “This bill in the best way
possible meets the need to achieve these targets.”  The bill includes provisions to push through a plan to put
25,000 public employees on notice for possible dismissal.
Samaras’s government must pass the measures for the country’s
euro-area and  International Monetary Fund  creditors to sign off
on the next loan disbursements from  Greece ’s 240 billion-euro
($316 billion) bailout.  Hours before the vote, Samaras announced a cut in  sales tax 
on restaurants and cafes to 13 percent from 23 percent from Aug.
1. The government remains bound by its fiscal targets and the
cut will be reversed if there isn’t progress in the fight
against  tax evasion , he said.  Shares Rise  Greek shares rose after Samaras’s announcement, with the
 Athens Stock Exchange index  up 1.7 percent at 2:40 p.m. in
Athens. The yield on government’s  benchmark 10-year bond  fell 2
basis points to 10.39 percent.  Samaras’s coalition was shaken last month after the
departure of the Democratic Left Party following the closure of
state broadcaster ERT. His New Democracy party must now rely on
its historic rival, the socialist Pasok party. The two control
155 of the Greek parliament’s 300 seats.  “The vote is crucial and it will likely go through as
there isn’t any alternative for Athens,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in  London .
“Schaeuble’s visit is something very significant as it signals
the strong German interest in having this Greek government
succeed.”  Senior euro-area financial officials plan a conference call
on July 24 to discuss the latest bailout payment, a European
Union official said yesterday on condition of anonymity.  Euro area finance ministers committed to pay 2.5 billion
euros this month and 500 million euros in October. In addition
to the aid payment, Greece can count on recouping 2 billion
euros of central bank profits on domestic bonds, plus 1.8
billion euros from the International Monetary Fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  