-- Guardian Media Returns to Profit Going Against the Grain on Ads
-- B y   S a m   C h a m b e r s
-- 2013-07-16T17:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/guardian-media-returns-to-profit-going-against-the-grain-on-ads.html
Guardian Media Group Plc, which owns
the U.K.’s Guardian and Observer newspapers, returned to a full-year profit as a 29 percent increase in digital revenue helped
offset declining newspaper circulation.  As competitors such as  News Corp .-owned The Times of London
have opted to restrict access to online content through a
paywall, Guardian Media has focused on what it’s dubbed an  open
journalism  advertising campaign, drawing eyes to its website by
encouraging exchanges between reporters and readers.  “The Guardian’s approach to digital advertising goes
against the grain and it is paying off,” said Daniel Knapp,
director of ad research at IHS Screen Digest. “The Guardian is
positioning itself as a global media brand.”  Guardian Media’s profile in the U.S., where it began
operating in 2011, has been boosted by its coverage of Edward Snowden’s intelligence leaks. A video interview with Snowden was
viewed over 7 million times. The group’s jump in digital revenue
exceeded the decline in print revenues this year, which was
limited by a  20 pence increase  in the cover price of The
Guardian.  Guardian Media Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Miller  said
rising American readership has exposed the group to a much more
vibrant spending environment, supplementing its core U.K.
market.  “In the U.S. we’re seeing a much more bullish advertising
sector than in the U.K., where there are definitely still
concerns over the outlook,” Miller said. “Clients over there
are embracing digital advertising at a much faster rate.”  ‘Think Twice’  Guardian Media reported pretax profit of 22.7 million
pounds ($34.3 million) in the year ended March 31, recovering
from a 19.8 million-pound loss a year earlier. Digital revenue
reached 55.9 million pounds.  Despite charging more for paper copies, The Guardian and
Observer newspapers recorded a loss before interest and taxes of
30.9 million pounds last year. The circulation of the newspapers
dropped by around 10 percent.  Guardian Media’s “digital advertising revenue grew more
than twice as fast as the rest of the market,” Knapp said.
“This should make critics think twice.”  Guardian Media has resisted selling printing assets to
offset this decline, with Miller saying “if we want to innovate
across the paper, it’s good to own the assets.”  The company’s biggest cost remains its staff, and the
decline in circulation means further job cuts can’t be ruled
out, Miller said. There’s no current plan for significant cuts,
he added.  “We’re trying to move to a new business model and if we
can’t work within the constraints of the plan that our board
signed off to, then sadly a reduction in headcount would be
inevitable,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Chambers in  London  at 
 schambers7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  