-- Iceland Bucks EU Entry-Decision Plea Amid Mackerel Spat
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-07-16T09:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/iceland-bucks-eu-entry-decision-plea-amid-mackerel-spat.html
Iceland  resisted pleas to decide
speedily whether it wants to join the European Union, as long-simmering disputes over North Atlantic fishing quotas flared up
again.  Prime Minister Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson affirmed Iceland’s
suspension of its EU entry bid and said the new government isn’t
in a hurry to ask the country’s voters if they want to join the
28-member bloc.  “A decision has not been made on a date for a
referendum,” Gunnlaugsson told reporters after meeting EU
officials in Brussels today. “We agree on the importance of
cooperation but will have to wait a while to see what form that
cooperation takes.”  Unpopular with Iceland’s 320,000 people from the start in
2009, the entry quest ran until January when, in the heat of the
election campaign, it was downgraded by the pro-EU government
that initiated it. Contacts about entry terms continued until
Gunnlaugsson’s new coalition halted them.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  pressed for
rapid “clarity” on Iceland’s course, saying “the clock is
ticking and it is also in the shared interest of us all that
this decision is taken without further delay.”  Gunnlaugsson’s Brussels trip was clouded by a push by to
limit Iceland’s catch of North Atlantic mackerel, the latest
incident in decades of strife over the depletion of fishing
stocks.  Ireland, Britain,  France  and  Spain  called yesterday for
 sanctions  to punish Iceland for making an “unsustainable and
irresponsible” claim to 22.7 percent of the 2013 mackerel
catch, up from less than 5 percent in 2006.  Gunnlaugsson said sanctions would violate international
law. Both sides said they will pursue a negotiated settlement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  