-- Microsoft Says It Doesn’t Give NSA Secret Encryption Keys
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-07-16T22:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/microsoft-says-it-doesn-t-hand-nsa-secret-encryption-keys.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , addressing
persistent concerns that it has helped the U.S. government
gather customer information, said it doesn’t provide direct
access to e-mails, instant messages or Skype calls and refuses
to grant agencies the ability to break its encryption.  In a letter today to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, the
company asked for permission to share more information on its
communication with government agencies, saying it has a
constitutional right to do so. Microsoft said such permission
has been delayed and asked Holder for personal help.  Microsoft and technology companies  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  and Yahoo! Inc. have come under scrutiny since a former
U.S. National Security Agency contractor said publicly last
month that the NSA is collecting user data. Microsoft said that
while it’s limited in what it can disclose about communications,
the company doesn’t grant access to servers and only provides
governments with specific information about requests. That
includes data from its SkyDrive cloud service.  “We do not provide any government with the ability to
break the encryption, nor do we provide the government with the
encryption keys,” Microsoft General Counsel  Brad Smith  said in
a  blog post  today. “When we are legally obligated to comply
with demands, we pull the specified content from our servers
where it sits in an unencrypted state, and then we provide it to
the government agency.”  Brian Fallon , Holder’s spokesman, didn’t have an immediate
comment on the letter.  Guardian Report  Last week, the  Guardian  reported that Microsoft has helped
the NSA get around the company’s own encryption, citing
documents obtained by the newspaper.  Microsoft, the world’s biggest software maker, also said
that when it receives a request for information held by a
corporate customer, the company redirects the government to the
client, unless prohibited from doing so. The Redmond,
Washington-based company said it has never provided information
on a corporate customer for national security purposes and
complied with four requests in 2012 related to criminal  law
enforcement .  Since the NSA documents were leaked, Microsoft has held
talks with the  Justice Department ,  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  and others in the intelligence community about
which issues the company can publicly address, Smith wrote in
the letter.  Microsoft  rose  0.3 percent to $36.27 at the close in New
York and has gained 36 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  