-- Microsoft, Green Mountain, Weather: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-16T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/microsoft-green-mountain-weather-intellectual-property.html
Even as they battle in court over
smartphone and video technology,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
have discovered a common foe: patent owners who try to sue their
customers or go after an entire industry.  Both companies are seeking to curb the litigation practices
of firms that buy patents with the sole purpose of demanding
royalties from as many end-users as they can, even if it means
suing a pizza parlor or nonprofit. Anger has united a cross-section of retailers, finance companies, public-transit
operators and hotels, and even caught the attention of President
 Barack Obama , who last month announced corrective measures.  Focusing on the issue could create pressure in Congress for
legislation and action by U.S. courts -- as long as companies
avoid the squabbling that marred the previous effort to change
 patent law . That took almost a decade and pitted industries, and
even technology companies, against each other.  “Going after bad litigation behavior is an approach we can
all agree on,” said Tim Molino, director of government
relations for Washington-based BSA - The Software Alliance,
whose members include Microsoft and Oracle Corp.  Google spokesman Matt Kallman referred questions about
patent legislation to the Coalition for Patent Fairness, a
Washington-based lobbying group backed by Google, Cisco Systems
Inc. and  Intel Corp . Each month, the group has a meeting with an
increasing number of organizations to discuss ways to get
legislative change.  The increased political attention is due to patent owners
who started going after product end-users, demanding cheap
settlements from a large number of companies. A White House-commissioned report estimated that more than 100,000 companies
were threatened last year, including members of politically
connected  Washington  trade groups like the  National Retail
Federation  and Financial Services Roundtable.  Members of Congress have proposed legislation to limit some
patent owners from seeking product import bans at the U.S.
International Trade Commission, expand reviews of business
method patents and force certain patent owners who lose at trial
to pay legal fees of those they accused of infringement.  The courts have also been trying to curb abuses. The ITC, a
quasi-judicial agency in Washington, set up a program to resolve
certain patent cases more quickly. The chief judge of the
federal appeals court that specializes in patent law co-wrote a
 New York  Times opinion piece advocating sanctions for litigation
abuses.  Getting a consensus could mean avoiding more controversial
issues such as curbing software patents, and ensuring that any
changes don’t have unintended consequences that hurt
universities needing legal protection for their research and
patent-reliant businesses.  Samsung Gets Patent on Mobile Phone That Docks With Tablet
Device  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the Korean maker of smartphones
and other electronic devices, received a patent for a mobile
telephone that docks into a tablet device, according to the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  Patent D685774, issued July 9, is described as “a terminal
for wireless communication.” According to the patent drawings,
the mobile phone appears to have a USB port and a jack for a
headphone. The phone flares at the top and has rounded lower
edges.  Seocho-gu, South Korea-based Samsung applied for the patent
in June 2012, with the assistance of  NSIP Law  of Washington.  The company said in a statement yesterday that it was
seeking the cause of an explosion of one of its mobile phones.
Samsung said it was focused on quality control and customer
safety.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Green Mountain Unit Seeks Trademark for Home Soda Machine  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) ’s Keurig unit filed an
application to register a trademark to be used with soda
machines, according to the database of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  The application, filed July 3, is to register “Karbon” as
a trademark for “machines for the production of cold water,
soda, still, carbonated and sparkling beverages.” A second
application filed that day is to register “Bolt,” to be used
for carafes.  Keurig’s soda machine would compete with those made by
Israel’s  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)   “We are not going to comment on this specific trademark,”
Suzanne DuLong, a spokeswoman for Waterbury, Vermont-based Green
Mountain, said in an e-mail. “As we continue to grow, we are
likely to seek any number of trademarks.”  Flipboard Sued by Company Seeking to Use ‘Flowboard’ Trademark  Flipboard Inc., a maker of software for use on mobile
devices, was sued over a trademark by a Seattle-based  software
company .  According to the complaint filed July 11 in federal court
in  Seattle ,  Treemo Inc.  is seeking a court declaration that its
“Flowboard” mark doesn’t infringe Flipboard’s trademarks.  Treemo said it has been contacted by counsel for Flipboard
threatening legal action over the trademark.  In court papers, Treemo said that during the process of
applying to register Flowboard as a trademark, the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office “found no conflicting marks that would bar
registration.” The company is also arguing that the two marks
are used for different purposes.  Flowboard is used for a software product “for the creation
of side-scrolling presentations with images, text, video links
and photo galleries,” according to the complaint. Flipboard is
used with social networking services, something Treemo says it
doesn’t offer under its Flowboard mark.  Additionally, Treemo argued that the patent office database
contains almost 600 registrations or pending applications that
contain some form of the word “board.” The initial portions of
the respective marks -- Flow and Flip --“connote substantially
different images in the minds of ordinary consumers,” Treemo
said in its pleadings.  Flipboard, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , sent a statement
to the  TechCrunch website  saying that it had wanted to resolve
the dispute with Treemo amicably and that it’s concerned about
the likelihood of confusion.  The case is Treemo Inc., v. Flipboard Inc., 13-cv-01218,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Goodreads Sued for Copyright Infringement Over Boy Band Photo  Goodreads Inc., whose website lets readers share book
recommendations, was sued for copyright infringement by a
company that owns and licenses celebrity photos.  The suit, filed July 5 in federal court in  Los Angeles , is
one of more than 20 brought since March 1 by BWP Media USA Inc.
of Los Angeles. The company is represented in all these suits by
 Sanders Law Pllc  of  Garden City ,  New Jersey .  BWP said in its complaint that photos of a member of the
boy band IM5 were posted on Goodreads without authorization and
in willful violation of its copyrights.  Goodreads, based in  Santa Monica , California, didn’t
respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment on the
suit.  BWP asked the court money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  The case is BWP Media USA Inc., v. Goodreads Inc., 2:13-cv-04851-E, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Trade Secrets Case Against Weather Channel to Proceed  Weather Channel LLC, the television network owned by Bain
Capital LLC, Blackstone Group LP and NBC Universal International
Ltd., failed to persuade a federal court to dismiss a trade-secrets case.  Events Media Network Inc.  of Shamong, New Jersey, sued
Weather Channel in  Pennsylvania  state court in March 2012,
claiming it violated a confidentiality agreement with respect to
its events database. The database had been licensed to Weather
Channel through May 1, 2011.  Weather Channel used this confidential information both
after the license expired and for purposes not covered by the
agreement, Events Media said in its pleadings.  The case was moved to federal court in Pennsylvania in May
2012 before heading to a New Jersey federal court in November.  The Weather Channel asked that the case be dismissed,
saying that the database didn’t qualify for trade-secrets
protection because it contained information that was publicly
available and that Events Media didn’t take enough care to
protect its secrecy.  U.S. District Judge Robert B. Kugler in Camden, New Jersey,
on July 12 rejected Weather Channel’s arguments. He said the
trade-secrets claims were made under Georgia law, which
specifically covers compilations of what may be available to the
public.  The judge also concluded that Events Media took care to
protect the confidentiality of the database and found that the
license agreement with Weather Channel specifically limited the
ways the information could be disclosed. The agreement also
required reporting any inadvertent or improper use of the data.  The case is Events Media Network Inc. v. Weather Channel
Interactive Inc., 13-cv-00003, U.S. District Court, District of
New Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  