-- Indian Rupee Forwards Jump Most in 10 Months After Rates Raised
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-07-16T01:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/indian-rupee-forwards-jump-most-in-10-months-after-rates-raised.html
Indian rupee forwards jumped the
most in 10 months after the central bank raised two  interest
rates  to support the currency, which sank to a record last week.  The  Reserve Bank of India  increased both the marginal
standing facility and the bank rate to 10.25 percent from 8.25
percent late yesterday in Mumbai, it said in a statement on its
website. The monetary authority also said it will conduct open-market sales of  government bonds  totaling 120 billion rupees ($2
billion) on July 18, a step that would drain cash from an
economy expanding at the slowest pace in a decade.  “The RBI’s announcement overnight will make it more
expensive to short the rupee,” said Khoon Goh, a senior
strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Singapore, referring to bets that the currency will decline.
“While I expect the rupee to gain a temporary reprieve,
depreciation pressure will re-emerge if the economic
fundamentals don’t improve in the near-term.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards on the rupee
strengthened 1.3 percent to 59.51 per dollar at 9:24 a.m. in
Singapore, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The contract touched
a two-week high of 59.40 earlier. The rupee weakened 10 percent
in the past three months to 59.895 in  Mumbai , Asia’s biggest
loss, and touched a record low of 61.2125 on July 8.  The RBI’s rate increases yesterday were unexpected, Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Credit Agricole CIB strategist in Hong Kong, wrote
in a research note today. The jump in the rate on the marginal
standing facility, which is used by banks to obtain emergency
funds, was “massive,” he added.  ‘Psychological Message’  “The move sends a strong psychological message that policy
makers are willing to sacrifice growth to defend the currency,”
Kowalczyk said. “The rupee may well stabilise around 60 in
coming days and weeks.”  The rate increases were announced after data showed
yesterday that wholesale-price inflation accelerated to a three-month high of 4.86 percent in June.  India’s economy  expanded 5
percent in the fiscal year ended March, the slowest since 2003,
hurt by moderating investment, easing domestic demand and
subdued exports.  The  Reserve Bank  of India barred banks from proprietary
trading in currency futures and exchange-traded options,
according to a July 8 statement on its website. The  Securities
and Exchange Board of India  raised margin requirements for
currency derivatives and capped open positions in the contracts
from July 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  