-- India to Ease Foreign Investment Caps in Steps to Bolster Rupee
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-17T03:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/india-clears-proposals-to-relax-some-foreign-investment-caps.html
India ’s government proposed to ease
foreign-direct investment limits in some industries as part of
measures to lure capital inflows, revive economic growth and
bolster the rupee that touched a record low this month.  Among the decisions taken at a meeting led by Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  was a plan to allow overseas investors
to own all of a phone carrier, Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma 
told reporters yesterday. The changes would also permit foreign
investment in defense production exceeding the current 26
percent cap, if India gains access to modern technology.  India is wooing funds needed to finance a record current-account deficit as the rupee plunged 7.3 percent against the
dollar this year and the $1.9 trillion economy expanded at the
slowest pace in a decade. The easing of the foreign-direct
investment rules is the latest in a slew of measures announced
by policy makers in the nation’s finance ministry and the
central bank to help reverse the slide in the local currency.  “All hands appeared on deck to stabilize the financial
markets and set the reforms machinery in motion,” said Radhika Rao, an economist at DBS Bank Ltd. in  Singapore . “These non-debt creating and durable inflows are preferable over short-term
capital to fund the current-account deficit.”  RBI Action  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in March that
he had kickstarted the review of the FDI caps as gross domestic
product rose 5 percent in the 12 months through March, the
smallest gain since the year ended March 31, 2003. The  Reserve
Bank  of India on July 15 tightened money markets to make rupee
funds more expensive after the currency touched an unprecedented
low of 61.2125 a dollar on July 8.  A statement released after Sharma’s briefing late yesterday
showed the meeting agreed on plans to allow 49 percent foreign-direct investment through the automatic route in petroleum and
natural gas and refining, as well as commodity, power and stock
exchanges.  In single-brand retailing, up to 49 percent would be
allowed through the automatic route, with investment of 49
percent to 100 percent requiring government approval.  Prime Minister Singh began a series of policy changes in
September to spur expansion in  Asia ’s third-largest economy and
avert a credit-rating downgrade.  Retail, Aviation  The steps have included liberalization of foreign
investment limits in the retail and aviation industries, faster
approvals for public works, lower levies on overseas buyers of
local bonds and higher taxes on gold imports.  Etihad Airways PJSC agreed in April to buy a 24 percent
stake in Mumbai-based  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  for 20.6 billion
rupees ($349 million), taking advantage of the changes.  Singh’s policy push had foundered as protests over alleged
graft in government disrupted parliament, impeding bills seeking
to allow overseas companies to invest in the pensions industry
for the first time, and hold as much as 49 percent of insurance
businesses.  Foreign-direct investment slid about 21 percent to $36.9
billion last fiscal year compared with 2011-12.  The current-account deficit widened to $31.8 billion in the
last quarter of 2012, equivalent to 6.7 percent of gross
domestic product, before narrowing to $18.2 billion in the
following three months.  For the measures announced by the government to translate
into material inflows, India needs to address bottlenecks in its
economy, said DBS’s Rao and Rupa Rege Nitsure, an economist at
 Bank of Baroda  in Mumbai.  “The steps are in the right direction but not
sufficient,” said Nitsure. “India won’t become an attractive
destination for foreign capital unless it resolves the issues of
bad governance, inadequate infrastructure, and policy
uncertainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in  New Delhi  at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  