-- India Strategists See Record Sensex as Surge in Earnings
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-07-16T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/india-strategists-see-record-sensex-as-surge-in-earnings.html
India’s equity strategists say the
benchmark  index , the most expensive among the biggest  emerging
markets , will rally to a record this year as pre-election
spending sends corporate earnings to an all-time high.  The  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  will advance 6.5 percent to 21,150,
surpassing its closing record of 21,004.96 in November 2010,
according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of eight
strategists at firms from BNP Paribas SA to Deutsche Bank AG.
The gauge is up 2.2 percent in 2013, versus a 9.7 percent drop
in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, and is valued at 13 times
estimated earnings, more than in  Brazil , Russia and  China .  While foreign investors  sold  $1.8 billion of Indian shares
in June and the central bank raised interest rates July 15 to
stem the rupee’s dlifr, strategists say the Sensex will gain as
 profits  jump 19 percent in the year to March. State spending
will surge by a record in the second half, according to
Macquarie Capital Securities ( India ) Pvt. Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh is seeking to boost his Congress Party ahead of
elections with more food aid and infrastructure investment,  “You will see the numbers come through in the second half
and this probably is the time to get into the game,” Rakesh Arora, the head of research at Macquarie in Mumbai, said in an
interview yesterday. “The risk-reward ratio is extremely
good.”  Favorable Valuations  His 22,600 forecast for the Sensex is the second-highest
among strategists surveyed by Bloomberg after the 23,000
estimate from Saurabh Mukherjea at Ambit Capital Pvt. Arora,
whose July 2011 prediction that the Sensex may fall 15 percent
proved prescient after the gauge sank that much in the next 11
weeks, said he favors  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s largest
engineering company, and  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , the nation’s
biggest maker of sport-utility vehicles and tractors.  The Sensex fell 0.9 percent to 19,851.23 yesterday. The
gauge’s  valuation  of 13 times analysts’ projected earnings
during the next 12 months compares with 18 times when the index
peaked in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Valuations are reasonably favorable,” Vetri Subramaniam,
who oversees $2.3 billion as the chief investment officer at
Religare Invesco Asset Management Co. in Mumbai, said in a
telephone interview on July 11.  Compared with the rest of the BRIC markets, Indian shares
look expensive. Brazil’s Ibovespa is  valued  at 10.5 times
estimated profits, a 26 percent discount versus the Sensex.
 Russia ’s Micex Index trades at 5.3 times and China’s Shanghai
Composite Index at 8.5 times.  Weak Growth  The combination of rising import costs, India’s weakest
economic expansion in a decade and slower progress with the
government’s reform plan will restrain profit growth, according
to CLSA Asia Pacific Markets.  Gross domestic product in Asia’s third-biggest economy
 expanded  5 percent in the year ended March, the weakest pace
since 2003. Industrial output unexpectedly declined in May,
while car sales dropped for eight straight months through June,
reports showed last week. Steel consumption rose last quarter at
the slowest rate in at least five years.  Singh’s biggest effort in a decade to open India’s economy
was curtailed in recent weeks amid protests over alleged graft
in government disrupted parliament, delaying bills to ease tax
rules and open up more industries to foreign investment.  The rupee depreciated to a record 61.2125 per dollar on
July 8 as speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will pare back
its bond-purchase program sparked capital flight from developing
nations.  Market Overhang  The Sensex declined the most in two weeks yesterday after
India’s central bank raised two interest rates and said it will
drain cash from the financial system to stem the currency’s
slide.  Foreign investors pulled the most money from Indian stocks
in June since August 2011, and sold a further $929 million this
month through July 15, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
pared net inflows this year to $12.4 billion.  “The economic slowdown has not been factored fully,”
Mahesh Nandurkar, an analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in
 Mumbai , said in an interview yesterday. “Earnings downgrades,
depreciation of the rupee and some political uncertainty will be
an overhang on the market.” He predicts the Sensex will end the
year at 20,000.  The rupee’s decline is boosting revenue at some of India’s
biggest companies. Infosys Ltd., the second-largest software
exporter, surged the most in six months on July 12 and sparked a
1.4 percent rally in the Sensex after the company’s sales
forecast in dollar terms beat analyst estimates.  Good Rains  Rainfall so far during the monsoon season, which began June
1 and accounts for more than 70 percent of the country’s annual
rain, is the biggest for this time of year since 2001, according
to the weather bureau’s website. Agriculture accounts for about
20 percent of the nation’s economy and 55 percent of the
cropland doesn’t have access to irrigation, according to the
farm ministry.  “The Indian economy is in the early stages of a recovery
and this will drive earnings growth,”Mukherjea, the chief
executive officer for institutional equities at Ambit Capital in
Mumbai, said in an e-mail yesterday. Mukherjea, who predicts the
Sensex will climb to 23,000, favors shares of automakers and oil
and gas companies.  Per-share earnings in the Sensex will probably climb to
1,345 for the fiscal year ended March 31, versus 1,132 in the
year-ago period, according to the average of seven strategist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Food Security  With a national ballot due before the end of May, Singh and
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram are spending more to
boost living standards for low-income voters in India, where
World Bank  data  shows more than 800 million people live on less
than $2 per day. India’s Cabinet approved a $21 billion-a-year
program to provide cheap food to the poor on July 3.  Singh has formed a panel to “accelerate” infrastructure
investments worth 1 trillion rupees ($17 billion), according to
a July 15 release on the prime minister’s  website . The panel,
whose first meeting is due on July 19, will also clear a backlog
of railways projects estimated at 2 trillion rupees.  “This year we will not compress expenditure,” Chidambaram
told reporters in New Delhi on June 13. “Whatever is being
provided in the budget will be made available to the ministries
and departments. I have encouraged every one of them to
accelerate spending.”  Limited Downside  The government plans to increase expenditure by 16 percent
in the year to March, compared with a 9.7 percent gain in the
previous fiscal year and 9 percent a year before that, data
compiled from the government’s annual budget show. Spending in
the six months to March will surge 30 percent, according to
Macquarie Capital, the fastest pace since the firm started
tracking the data for the financial year ended 1998.  Larsen & Toubro, with headquarters in Mumbai, may  climb  13
percent in the next year, according to the average estimate of
45 analysts tracked by Bloomberg. Earnings are projected to
increase 5.7 percent this year and another 15 percent in the 12
months to March 2015. The stock has slid 9.4 percent this year.  Mahindra & Mahindra, India’s most acquisitive manufacturer,
has declined 2 percent since the end of December. The shares may
rally 15 percent as earnings increase about 10 percent this
year, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “All the negatives have played out,” Macquarie’s Arora
said. “The cost of going wrong is not too high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  