-- India’s Rupee Strengthens as RBI Tightens Policy; Bonds Plunge
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-07-16T12:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/indian-rupee-surges-as-rbi-tightens-policy-bonds-stocks-plunge.html
India ’s rupee advanced the most this
month after the central bank raised two  interest rates  to
support the currency, which sank to a record this month. Bonds
plunged the most since 2009 and stocks fell.  The  Reserve Bank  of India increased the marginal standing
facility rate and the  bank rate  to 10.25 percent from 8.25
percent late yesterday in Mumbai, according to a statement on
its website. The monetary authority also said it will conduct
open-market sales of government debt totaling 120 billion rupees
($2 billion) on July 18, a step that would drain cash from an
economy expanding at the slowest pace in a decade. The RBI held
its benchmark repurchase rate at 7.25 percent.  “While the move is marginally positive for the rupee,
through the carry channel, a key variable to monitor in the
coming days is equity flows,” analysts at Barclays Plc,
including Singapore-based Rohit Arora, wrote in a research
report today. “The de facto tightening amid sluggish growth
could be taken negatively by equities resulting in lower
inflows.”  The rupee strengthened 1 percent to 59.32 per dollar in
Mumbai, the biggest gain since June 28, according to prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The currency, which fell to a
record 61.2125 on July 8 after the U.S. signaled it may pare
stimulus this year, earlier today touched 59.1250, the strongest
level since July 1.  Bonds Plunge  The RBI also said it will cap the amount it will lend to
commercial banks through the daily repurchase window to around
750 billion rupees, compared with an average 872 billion rupees
borrowed each day this year through July 15, according to the
monetary authority’s data.  “These measures should not be read as a prelude to any
policy rate changes,” Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram
told reporters in Jaipur today. “These measures in no way
affect our commitment to growth. Measures are taken to quell
excessive speculation and reduce volatility and stabilize the
rupee.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent bonds due June 2022 jumped 52
basis points, or 0.52 percentage point, to 8.2 percent,
according to the central bank’s trading system. That is the
biggest yield increase for a benchmark 10-year security since
January 2009. The S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  share index declined 0.9
percent to 19,851.23.  “The RBI’s announcement overnight will make it more
expensive to short the rupee,” said Khoon Goh, a senior
strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
 Singapore , referring to bets that the currency will decline.
“While I expect the rupee to gain a temporary reprieve,
depreciation pressure will re-emerge if the economic
fundamentals don’t improve in the near term.”  Carry Costs  The carry costs of holding long-dollar positions will
increase “significantly,” analysts at HSBC Holdings Plc,
including Dominic Bunning in  Hong Kong , wrote in a research
report today. Foreign-exchange implied yields have rarely
exceeded 10 percent, they wrote.  The price of contracts that fix the conversion rate for
buying dollars with rupees in a year’s time jumped 111 basis
points today to an annualized 7.49 percent over the spot rate,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The onshore forward premium on
the dollar has risen 183 basis points in the past year.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards rose 0.6 percent to
60.47 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts rose 1.1 percent to 60.39. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  The spread between the one-month and 12-month NDFs rose to
395 pips, the highest level since 2008. A pip is the smallest
unit of a currency’s price, which in U.S. dollar terms equals
one-hundredth of a cent.  The central bank said it will “continue to closely monitor
the markets, the liquidity situation and the macroeconomic
developments and will take such other measures as may be
necessary, consistent with the growth-inflation dynamics and
macroeconomic stability.”  “Some more decisions” are “on the anvil,” Finance
Minister Chidambaram said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  