-- Indonesia Penalizes Parties in Fight for Women: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-07-16T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/indonesia-penalizes-parties-in-fight-for-women-southeast-asia.html
When Diah Pitaloka took over the
youth wing of  Indonesia ’s third-biggest political party two
years ago, her male colleagues addressed her as “Pak,” which
in Indonesian means “Mr.”  “Maybe they still want a man to lead them,” said
Pitaloka, 35, who plans to run in next year’s legislative
elections for the first time as a member of former President
Megawati Soekarnoputri’s Indonesian  Democratic Party  of
Struggle. “The fact is, I beat them. I told them it’s ok, you
can call me anything -- I’m still a woman.”  The world’s most populous Muslim country will now penalize
political parties that fail to meet a requirement for females to
make up at least 30 percent of candidates in the elections as it
seeks to halt a widening divide between the sexes. Indonesia
ranked 97th of 135 countries last year on the  World Economic
Forum ’s  Gender Gap Index , down from 90th in 2011.  The names of female candidates will appear more prominently
on voting forms and parties will face disqualification in
districts where they don’t meet the quota, according to a law
amended last year.  “It’s setting a good example in terms of really getting
this into the whole political process,” Noeleen Heyzer,
executive secretary of the United Nations Economic and Social
Commission for Asia and the Pacific in Bangkok, said of
Indonesia’s enforcement of the quota. “There’s a lot that can
be done to improve  gender equality  and women’s empowerment in
the country.”  Presidents’ Daughters  Indonesia slipped in the World Economic Forum’s rankings
because of a decline in the number of women in ministerial
positions, according to its report. The country of about 250
million people ranked on par with  Iran  in the UN’s  Gender
Inequality Index  last year.  Among Indonesia’s most prominent female politicians are the
daughters of former presidents. Megawati, who lost the last two
presidential elections to President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, is
the daughter of Soekarno, the country’s first president who took
power after declaring independence from the Netherlands in 1945.  “It gives us a cloak of influence because we’re able to
knock on the door and people will open the doors because of the
last name,” Yenny Wahid, the daughter of Abdurrahman Wahid,
Indonesia’s fourth president, who also heads a political party,
said in an interview. “The 30 percent quota is a big help
because parties have no choice but to accommodate women.”  In 1990, the UN  recommended  that women hold 30 percent of
leadership positions by 1995 and 50 percent by 2000. The global
average now is 21 percent, according to data compiled by the
Inter-Parliamentary Union.  19 Percent  Females now hold about 19 percent of the 560 seats in
Indonesia’s lower house of parliament, putting the nation 75th
among 189 countries, according to the  Inter-Parliamentary Union .
Achieving 30 percent participation would boost Indonesia to 30th
overall and the third-highest in  Asia  after Timor Leste and
Nepal, the statistics show.  During the reigns of Soekarno and Suharto, an authoritarian
ruler who stepped down amid street protests in 1998, female
lawmakers made up 13 percent or less of parliament in any given
five-year span. A 2003 law stipulating a non-compulsory quota
for women to make up 30 percent of candidate lists had little
effect, with women winning 11 percent of seats in an election
the following year.  While the number increased further after the 2009 election
to about 18 percent, lawmakers amended the election law last
year to force parties to comply with the quota in each of the
nation’s 77 electoral districts.  Stricter Penalties  All of the 12 parties eligible to run in next year’s
election initially complied with the quota, compared with almost
none in the previous election, according to Hadar Gumay, a
member of the  General Elections Commission . While five parties
were subsequently disqualified in certain districts after eight
candidates were deemed ineligible, they will likely be able to
replace them, he said.  “Before, there is no penalty at all -- they just announce
it and that’s it,” Gumay said. “If we don’t apply this
regulation, I think there will be a lot of political parties
that just ignore the quota.”  The affirmative action program is designed to combine
opportunity with merit, according to Mari Elka Pangestu,
minister for tourism and creative economy who is one of four
women in Yudhoyono’s 37-member cabinet. Then-Finance Minister
 Sri Mulyani Indrawati  stepped down in 2010 to become managing
director of the  World Bank .  Merit Rewarded  “Affirmative action is to give the opportunity for the
women to run for office in parliament, but whether or not they
win is still based on whether they can win votes,” Pangestu
said in an interview.  Under Indonesia’s electoral rules, voters pick from lists
of candidates divided by districts. Since those at the top of
the list often win seats, the new rules require every third
nominee to be a woman.  Because only 12 parties will run in next year’s election,
down from 38 in the 2009 election, candidates will need more
than just name recognition to win seats, said Meutya Hafid, a
former television journalist and a lawmaker with the Golkar
party. In 2009, winning candidates included actress Rachel Maryam Sayidina and singer Theresia Ebenna Ezeria Pardede, who
resigned last year to finish her master’s thesis.  “Before it’s like thousands of names, so these women first
have to get their name noticed,” Hafid said. “But now it’s not
good enough to be able to make people know your name -- they
also have to know your background.”  Quality Candidates  Pitaloka, who heads the youth wing of Megawati’s party in
 West Java province , said her team has advised her to avoid
talking directly about women’s issues on the campaign trail. Her
strategy is to focus on topics that overwhelmingly affect women,
such as creating jobs for poor families.  “People don’t like the word feminist, and they don’t like
people who talk mostly about women,” Pitaloka said, adding that
she’s still optimistic females will make up at least a quarter
of the parliament after the elections.  Even so, she says, the number of women in parliament isn’t
as important as the quality.  “Many people still believe that women are not capable as
leaders and not trained to be good decision makers,” Pitaloka
said. “The important thing is to have women who can influence
the parliament’s decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  