-- Invensys Bidding May Yield Decade-High Price: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-07-17T17:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/invensys-bidding-may-yield-decade-high-price-real-m-a.html
Invensys Plc (ISYS)  shareholders may be
rewarded with a price not seen in a decade if  Schneider Electric
SA (SU) ’s approach sparks a bidding war.  Shares of the British industrial technology company have
traded above Schneider’s informal offer of 505 pence a share
during each of the last three trading days, indicating some
investors may be wagering on a higher bid. An auction, which may
attract Emerson Electric Co. and  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ,
could drive the price to 550 pence or more, Royal Bank of Canada
said. The stock hasn’t traded that  high  since 2003.  “We’re not selling our shares,”  James Buckley , a London-based  fund manager  at Baring Asset Management Ltd., which
oversees about $50 billion, including Invensys stock, said in a
phone interview. “It has been linked with a number of other
companies in the past. If you get a bidding war, then there’s
always the potential for people to pay up.”  Emerson, which approached Invensys about a takeover last
year, would be the most likely to counterbid for the maker of
safety systems, controls and temperature gauges,  Societe
Generale  SA said. Even without a higher offer, rivals may be
able to top Schneider with an all-cash bid, which Invensys
 shareholders  would likely prefer to the current cash-and-stock
proposal, according to Citigroup Inc.  A representative for London-based Invensys declined to
comment beyond the company’s statement last week disclosing
Schneider’s bid. Anthime Caprioli of Rueil-Malmaison, France-based Schneider declined to comment on the status of
negotiations.  Stock Surge  Invensys  serves  a range of clients including oil refinery
operators, mining companies and appliance manufacturers. It said
July 11 after the close of London trading that it was in talks
with Schneider about a takeover proposal that would value the
company at about 3.3 billion pounds ($5 billion).  Invensys’ board is likely to recommend a firm offer at the
proposed price, the company said. Under U.K. takeover laws,
Schneider has until Aug. 8 to formalize its bid and could still
walk away from a deal.  Shares of Invensys  surged  to a six-year intraday high of
517.50 pence after the company’s disclosure of the takeover
talks. The stock closed at 440.10 pence on July 11, before the
negotiations were announced.  Yesterday, after opening at 509.50 pence, Invensys ended at
502 pence.  Today, the stock rose 1 percent to 507 pence.  Bid Speculation  After the recent gain, Invensys has become overvalued and
is unlikely to attract other suitors, according to a July 16
note from Makor Capital Ltd. and AIM&R. A higher bid would be
difficult to justify and investors should sell their shares if
the stock rises above the offer price, according to the note.  Still, counterbids can’t be ruled out and other companies
may be able to win over Invensys shareholders by upgrading the
structure, if not the value, of offers, Mark Fielding, a London-based analyst at Citigroup, wrote in a July 15 note. Investors
would likely prefer an all-cash bid to the 319 pence in cash and
186 pence in new shares that Schneider is proposing, he wrote.  Invensys’ decision to announce the talks without
Schneider’s consent signals that the target is trying to flush
out more attractive offers, according to Alasdair Leslie, a
London-based analyst at Societe Generale. Schneider later
confirmed the talks in a separate statement.  “Clearly, if you’re selling an asset, you want to see if
there’s anyone else that might be willing to offer more,”
Leslie said in a phone interview. “There may be a few potential
bidders.”  Emerson Interest  Based on the sum of its  parts , Invensys could be valued at
as much as 550 pence a share in a takeover, Leslie estimated,
with  Emerson (EMR)  as the most logical challenger to Schneider.  Emerson, a maker of air conditioner compressors and food-waste disposals, walked away from talks with Invensys about a
possible deal a year ago. Since then, Invensys sold its rail
unit to Siemens AG and pledged some of the proceeds to fund
pension obligations that at one point were among the largest in
the U.K.  The transaction made Invensys a more appealing target for
Emerson, which would likely be lured by the company’s large
customer base and software offerings, Leslie said.  “They were fundamentally interested in what now remains of
Invensys, so it’s easier,” he said. “It would be an
interesting asset for them.”  Mark Polzin, a spokesman for St. Louis-based Emerson,
declined to comment.  Tempting Target  Still, Emerson shareholders may balk at the prospect of a
bidding war after a contest with  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  drove up the price for
its 2010 purchase of Chloride Group Plc, according to Christian Mayes, a St. Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones & Co.  “From Emerson’s point of view, I think the temptation
could be there to look at it because it does fit into a couple
areas that they want to grow in,” Mayes said in a phone
interview. “The size of this deal may put them off from it.”  Honeywell and Zurich-based ABB also could be among
companies interested in acquiring Invensys, said  Andrew Carter ,
a London-based analyst at RBC. Buying the maker of meters and
controls would add to their own process automation operations,
he said in a phone interview.  Invensys could fetch 550 pence or more a share if an
auction with “reasonable competitive tension” were to ensue,
Carter and Wasi Rizvi wrote in a July 9 note.  Antonio Ligi, a spokesman for ABB, declined to comment on
whether the company would be interested in buying Invensys, as
did Rob Ferris, a spokesman for  Morris Township , New Jersey-based Honeywell.  ABB Obstacles  ABB, which is in the process of a management transition,
may not be in a position to enter a bidding war for Invensys,
said Andy Bell, a London-based analyst at Canaccord Financial
Inc. Chief Executive Officer Joe Hogan, who is handing over the
reins to Ulrich Spiesshofer in September, said in an interview
published last month that the company needs to focus on
integrating acquisitions it has already made.  Honeywell may struggle to justify the cost of an Invensys
takeover, according to Bell. CEO Dave Cote said in February that
the company would focus on deals of less than $1 billion because
they are easier to assimilate.  Still, Invensys’ customer base is particularly valuable as
the process-automation market consolidates and buyers may feel
compelled to take advantage of the opportunity, Bell said.  “It’s all very well to go through the potential bidders
and say they won’t do it because of ‘x’ or because of ‘y,’” he
said. “But when you have an asset that’s as scarce as this
that’s up for sale, sometimes longer-term strategy outweighs
near-term considerations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  