-- Investors Buy U.S. Stocks Amid Dollar Strength, BofA Says
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-07-16T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/investors-buy-u-s-stocks-amid-dollar-strength-bofa-says.html
Investors are the most bullish on
U.S. equities in more than a year as a record number expect the
dollar to appreciate in the next 12 months, a Bank of America
Corp. survey showed.  A net 29 percent of 178 global fund managers, who together
oversee about $482 billion, were overweight U.S. stocks this
month, the highest since June last year. Eighty-three percent
expect the greenback to strengthen, the highest in the history
of the survey going back to 2001.  “Record optimism on the  U.S. dollar  is writ large,”
 Michael Hartnett , the New York-based chief investment strategist
at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit, wrote in the report to
investors today. “Equity investors are long strong dollar
plays” such as U.S. and Japanese stocks.  The dollar has risen the most this year out of 10
developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes amid expectation that the  Federal Reserve  will
start to taper its monthly bond-purchase program. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has surged 18 percent to a record.  Hedge funds  and futures traders had $30.2 billion of wagers
that the dollar would rally against the pound, yen and six other
currencies as of July 9, up from $24 billion the previous week,
according to CFTC data compiled by Nomura Holdings Inc. As
recently as the end of last year, investors had $14.5 billion of
net short positions, or bets that the currency would decline.  Japan Allocations  Allocations to Japanese stocks climbed to 27 percent
overweight, according to this month’s survey. That’s up from 17
percent last month and the second highest reading since 2006.
Overall allocations to equities increased to 52 percent
overweight, up from 48 percent last month.  “Investors are still looking at  Japan ,” John Bilton,
European investment strategist at Merrill Lynch, said at a press
conference in London today. “There is faith of what Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe is looking to do. We have seen more of the
speculative positions come out of the market and have started to
see some long-only money come back in.”  At the same time, concern about a so-called hard landing in
 China’s economy  and a “collapse” in commodity prices has
prompted global money managers to sell emerging-market stocks
and increase their cash levels.  A net 18 percent of investors were underweight developing
markets in the latest survey, for the lowest level since
November 2001. That compares to 43 percent who were overweight
the region five months ago. The average cash balance rose to 4.6
percent in July from 4.3 percent last month.  The global survey was conducted from July 5 to July 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  