-- Ipsos Sues Aegis Over ‘Misleading’ Synovate Sale, Fraud Probe
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-07-16T10:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/ipsos-sues-aegis-over-misleading-synovate-sale-fraud-probe.html
Ipsos SA (IPS)  said in a London lawsuit
that Aegis Group Plc inflated profits and failed to disclose tax
and fraud probes at Synovate before it sold the market research
unit in 2011 to Ipsos for 525 million pounds ($792 million).  Aegis, a  Dentsu Inc. (4324)  unit, didn’t pay share bonuses to
Synovate staff to “artificially inflate” profits and gave a
misleading account of customer contracts, Ipsos said in an April
lawsuit released by the court this week. An investigation into
fraud at Synovate’s Mexican business, accounting irregularities
in Romania and tax probes in at least three countries also
weren’t properly disclosed before the deal, Ipsos said.  Ipsos’s acquisition of Synovate created the world’s third-largest global market research company. Paris-based Ipsos, which
does polling for newspapers and private clients, is seeking as
much as $100 million from Aegis, saying it wouldn’t have paid as
much for the division if the issues were disclosed.  Aegis didn’t inflate profit figures and information about
Synovate’s customers was “fairly disclosed to Ipsos in the
disclosure letter,” the company said in its own court filings.
The London-based media company said it passed on a report about
 Mexico  to Ipsos at about the same time it received it.  There was no reason to pay the stock awards to Synovate
staff in light of the unit’s impending sale, Aegis said.  Louise Evans, an Aegis spokeswoman, said the company
refuted Ipsos’s allegations in court filings and declined to
comment further. Ipsos Chief Financial Officer Laurence Stoclet
declined to comment beyond confirming the lawsuit.  Synovate Mexico from 2008 through 2011 “fraudulently
inflated its revenue and profit figures,” Ipsos said in court
documents. Employees entered “ghost” contracts and intercepted
payments, while a report found 37 “questionable projects.” The
matter is the subject of a criminal probe in Mexico, Ipsos said.  Ipsos is reviewing accounting practices at Synovate  Romania 
where it found evidence the company had invoiced services it
didn’t provide. Aegis’s disclosure was inadequate or inaccurate,
the company said in the documents.  “A merger like that of Ipsos and Synovate takes time, even
if its physical and formal execution is swift,” Ipsos said in
February 2013,  explaining  why it had missed sales forecasts in
the last quarter of 2012.  The case is Ipsos v. Aegis Group, High Court of Justice,
Queen’s Bench Division, Commercial Court, Case No. 13-477  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  