-- Lira Set for Two-Week High on Rate Bets, Credit Suisse Forecast
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-07-16T12:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/lira-set-for-two-week-high-on-rate-bets-credit-suisse-forecast.html
The lira headed for its highest
level in more than two weeks as investors speculated the Turkish
central bank will raise  interest rates  this month and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  recommended buying the currency.  The lira appreciated for a second day and traded 0.4
percent stronger at 1.9257 per dollar by 1:43 p.m. in Istanbul,
its highest level since July 1. Yields on two-year benchmark
lira notes fell five basis points to 8.90 percent, after
dropping 64 basis points in previous two days.  Credit Suisse raised its forecast for the lira against the
dollar to 1.89 from 2.00 previously over the next three months,
Bernd Berg, a strategist in Zurich, said in an interview today.
 Turkey ’s central bank said yesterday “a measured step to widen
the interest-rate corridor” will be on the agenda at its
meeting on July 23 after it spent $6.35 billion in foreign
exchange sales since June 11 to shore up the currency. The lira
fell to a record low of 1.9740 on July 8.  “The lira at 1.93 versus the dollar was an important level
and we have broken with the central bank statement,” Burcin Metin, head of  currency trading  at ING Bank AS in Istanbul,
wrote in e-mailed comments. “Expectations that the central bank
will widen the corridor” is spurring the lira’s gain today, he
said.  One-year  interest-rate swaps  in Turkey jumped as high as
9.73 percent yesterday, the strongest level in more than a year
yesterday. The rate traded up 89 basis points to 9.18 percent
today.  “Central bank measures to support the lira in combination
with a more supportive external environment ease pressure on the
lira,” Credit Suisse’s Berg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  