-- IRS Employees Showed No Politics, Lawmakers’ Memo Shows
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-07-16T19:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/irs-employees-showed-no-politics-lawmakers-memo-shows.html
Interviews with 15 U.S. Internal
Revenue Service employees show no political motivation or White
House involvement in targeting groups applying for tax-exempt
status, House Democrats said in  a memo .  The 36-page memo released by Democrats on the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee includes excerpts from
several employee interviews with congressional investigators
that haven’t been distributed publicly until today. The IRS has
apologized for the delays and selective scrutiny given to Tea
Party groups applying for nonprofit status.  Democrats in Congress have resisted Republican arguments
that IRS employees used their positions to harm Republican-leaning groups. Instead, they maintain that Tea Party groups
were the victims of inadequate rules and inadvertent bungling.  “Despite an extremely aggressive investigation involving
thousands of documents and more than a dozen interviews of IRS
employees, the overwhelming evidence before the committee
reveals no political motivation or White House involvement in
this process,” aides to Representative Elijah Cummings of
 Maryland , the panel’s top Democrat, said in the memo.  In one excerpt, a Republican IRS employee based in
 Washington  said she hadn’t seen evidence that anyone at the
agency tried to influence elections.  ‘Laughable’ Notion  “That’s kind of laughable that people think that,” she
said of the notion that the IRS was targeting President  Barack Obama ’s political enemies.  Any delays, she said, stemmed from the difficulty of
determining the rules and whether groups were impermissibly
political.  “The lingering length of time, unfortunately, was just
trying to apply the law to the specific facts of each case,”
the employee said.  Democrats have also pointed to recent revelations that IRS
watch lists included so-called progressive groups and that an
inspector general’s review of 5,500 e-mails between employees
showed no evidence of political motivation.  The committee is scheduled to hold a July 18 hearing on the
agency’s scrutiny of politically oriented nonprofit groups. The
memo doesn’t identify the employees.  Congressional Inquiries  The oversight panel is one of six in Congress that have
opened inquiries. The Justice Department is pursuing a criminal
probe. At least four IRS executives have been pushed out of
their jobs.  Republicans have pointed to the early attention of
Washington-based IRS officials as a potential source of
political involvement. The excerpts released today include the
comments of seven Washington-based employees.  Another self-identified Republican said he was unaware of
any political bias or outside influence.  “I had seen or heard nothing that would suggest any
political bias,” he said.  Ali Ahmad, a spokesman for Republican Representative
Darrell Issa of  California , the committee chairman, didn’t
respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  