-- Is Germany Repeating American Errors at Bretton Woods?
-- B y   B e n n   S t e i l
-- 2013-07-16T16:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/is-germany-repeating-american-errors-at-bretton-woods-.html
At the founding of the  Bretton Woods 
international monetary system in 1944, the world’s dominant
creditor nation, the U.S., set out to revive a fixed exchange-rate system by offering a war-torn, debt-ridden world a new deal
in monetary relations, one to be supported by concessionary
dollar loans from a new  International Monetary Fund .  Today, Germany is trying to resuscitate the periphery of
the crisis-stricken euro area in much the same way, and it is
worth looking back at the formation of Bretton Woods for clues
as to how this will play out.  Before entering negotiations with the 43 other national
delegations at Bretton Woods, the architect of the conference,
Harry Dexter White of the U.S. Treasury Department, gave the
American delegates a warning: Other nations believed the U.S.
would soon put “pressure on the monetary systems of the rest of
the world” by “cornering a larger proportion of the world
markets and will be in a position to develop what we call an
export surplus.” In response, the other countries would want the
IMF to prod the U.S. “to adopt a policy which will put less
pressure on their exchange and enable them to sell more goods
here.”  The U.S. wouldn’t tolerate such interference. “We have been
perfectly adamant on that point,” White said. “We have taken the
position of absolutely no on that.”  John  Maynard Keynes , the head of the British delegation,
and other representatives of debtor nations wanted “to charge us
interest, as a lender,” White continued. But the U.S. position
was “the opposite of that,” he said, “we want to charge them.”  Stopping Devaluation  The reason, White explained, was that the IMF was “designed
for a special purpose, and that purpose is to prevent
competitive depreciation of currencies.” Fixed exchange rates
should therefore be at the center of the postwar monetary
architecture, to stop countries devaluing their way out of trade
deficits. The IMF should only lend money for short periods to
countries that had difficulty financing deficits.  Why was the U.S. in a position to impose such a system?
Because it controlled almost 80 percent of the world’s monetary
gold stock at the time. Gold in Fort Knox, White explained, was
“why we dominate practically the financial world, because we
have the where-with-all to buy any currency we want. If only
England was in that position, or any of the other countries, it
would be a very different story.”  But the very strength of the U.S. position led American
opponents of the conference to question its purpose. “The
average American doesn’t need to be told that most of the
world’s monetary gold is buried safely away in  Kentucky ,” wrote
the Christian Science Monitor. “When experts from other lands
come to talk about money and loans and trade and repayments it
gives the uninitiated the uncomfortable feeling that there may
be thieves in the pantry.”  Such views failed to recognize that the rest of the world
had a viable, if unpalatable, fallback option. Keynes “pointed
out that  Great Britain  might be forced to resort to some very
unacceptable means of pushing her foreign trade, should the
monetary plan be rejected,” the Washington Post reported. “A
return to the barter system was, he said, the only alternative
in sight, and it might have to be tried as a ‘last expedient.’
That is a possibility that the  United States  certainly does not
wish to see realized.” The British “may be ‘broke’ (since they
lack the wherewithal to meet their external obligations), but
they are not without facilities for pushing their goods into
foreign markets.”  Poor Alternative  Germany  had been operating this way for years, compelling
foreign holders of marks to redeem them for German goods. The
U.K. could do the same, making the pound convertible into
whatever wares Britain chose to make available. As the political
columnist Walter Lippmann wrote, if other countries were
dissatisfied with the terms the U.S. offered “they have an
alternative to the system of general international trading which
this country desires. The alternative is government controlled
trading on a bilateral or barter basis. It is not a good
alternative, and the world will be a poorer and more troubled
place if it is adopted.” But the U.S. had to be conscious that
such an alternative existed.  Lippmann was prescient. Although the U.S. succeeded in
pushing through its creditor-friendly monetary and financial
policies at Bretton Woods, it couldn’t actually get them off the
ground after the war. It was only the 1948  Marshall Plan , which
substituted American grants-in-aid for IMF loans, that managed
to revive the war-ravaged debtor nations of  Europe  and create
the foundation for a new international trading system.  Today, Germany is persisting with the same creditor-centric
plan for reviving the euro area -- new loans to finance old
loans while the debtors cut spending and wages to accommodate
fixed exchange rates. Lippmann, if he were alive, would no doubt
warn that the seemingly endless austerity being imposed on
southern Europe will ultimately lead to a political backlash
that will make it unsustainable. Germany will soon have to
choose: a Marshall Plan for the south, or an economic and
political breakdown of the euro zone.  (Benn Steil is director of international economics at the
 Council on Foreign Relations  and author of “The Battle of
Bretton Woods: John Maynard Keynes, Harry Dexter White, and the
Making of a New World Order.”)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Benn Steil at
 bsteil@cfr.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 