-- Israel Condemns EU Move to Limit Funds Beyond 1967 Border
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-07-16T17:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/israel-condemns-eu-move-to-limit-funds-beyond-1967-border.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said  Israel  would accept “no external dictates” on
its borders after a European Union decision to restrict
subsidies to organizations operating beyond its 1967 borders.  “I would expect that anyone for whom stability and peace
in the region is really important to find time to discuss this
issue after resolving more urgent problems such as the civil war
in Syria and Iran’s race to achieve nuclear weapons,” Netanyahu
said in a text message.  The European Commission, the union’s executive arm, said it
will soon publish “guidelines” making good on a December
pledge to deny EU funding to Israeli organizations in the West
Bank,  Gaza Strip  and Golan Heights.  “All Israeli entities whose place of establishment is
within the green line will be considered eligible,” EU
spokeswoman Maja Kocijancic told reporters in Brussels today.
The green line refers to Israel’s pre-1967 borders.  The guidelines will cover central EU funding and won’t
affect contracts between individual European governments and
Israel, Kocijancic said. She said the result could be funding
restrictions in “a very small number of cases.”  ‘Disconnected Europe’  Israeli captured the three areas during the 1967 Middle
East War with its Arab neighbors. It has since withdrawn troops
and evacuated settlements in Gaza and annexed the Golan in a
move that has not been recognized internationally. Israel says
the fate of settlements in the  West Bank  must be resolved in
peace negotiations.  The EU decision shows “once again how disconnected Europe
is, and why it can’t play a real partnership role in
negotiations” between Israel and the Palestinians, Minister of
Regional Development Silvan Shalom said today on  Army Radio .  Hanan Ashrawi , a member of the Palestine Liberation
Organization’s Executive Committee, welcomed what she called a
“significant move.”  “The EU has moved from the level of statements,
declarations and denunciations to effective policy decisions and
concrete steps which constitute a qualitative shift that will
have positive impact on the chances of peace,” she said.  The decision comes before a visit to the region this week
by U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry , who is trying to revive
peace talks that have been suspended since 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  