-- Jay-Z, Daft Punk Beaten by Pet Shop Boys Springsteen Song
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-07-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/jay-z-daft-punk-beaten-by-pet-shop-boys-springsteen-song.html
The best  album  of 2013 so far? There
are some strong contenders. Vampire Weekend’s inventive CD.
Surprise returns by  David Bowie  and My Bloody Valentine.  Laura
Marling ’s latest. Laura Mvula’s debut.  One name that has been on nobody’s lips -- so far -- is the
Pet Shop Boys. “Electric” is an unlikely turnaround, a
masterclass in dance which beats everything else, including Daft
Punk with its summer hit “Get Lucky.”  The U.K. duo was all but written off as a 1980s relic after
last year’s “Elysium,” a downbeat end to a 28-year contract with
Parlophone.  Stung by criticism, the Boys return to their disco best
with  Stuart Price  producing. They give the single “Axis” a
pulsating synthesizer sound like “Heart” in 1988.  “The Last to Die” reworks  Bruce Springsteen ’s potentially
naive anti-war rant into something ironic and questioning. The
lines “die for a mistake, whose blood will spill, whose heart
will break” are sugared by the seductive  melody . Rating: *****.  The Boys’ reappearance threatens to rain on Jay-Z’s parade.
His “Magna Carta… Holy Grail” is better than the Gatsby
soundtrack. It has as many stars in support, including his wife
Beyonce,  Justin Timberlake  and the excellent Frank Ocean. Yet a
lot of good names and expensive production don’t ensure magic.  His endless boasting irritates faster than it takes to
start a Veyron: “Twin Bugattis outside the Art Basel, I just
wanna live life colossal.” Rating: **.  Like the Pet Shop Boys,  Rod Stewart  looked to be past his
sell-by date. While the “Great American Songbook” series of
cover versions and a Christmas disc has made the last decade his
most commercially successful, it’s been some 12 years since his
collection of new material.  “Time” is no embarrassing joke and his first U.K. chart-topping LP in 30 years. Of course it’s not as good as his 1970s
peak, “Every Picture Tells a Story.” It’s a safe bet that he’s
well on his way to being Sir Rod. He just needs to make a few
stripped-down Rick Rubin-style records to become an elder
statesman of rock. Rating: ***.  Other British 1980s synth bands are following the Pet Shop
Boys in making a comeback. Leaving aside Depeche Mode, who never
really went away, this year has seen a workmanlike album by OMD,
“ English Electric .” Rating: ***.  “Hearts and Knives” is the first new  disc  in 29 years from
Visage. I was always amused by Visage singer Steve Strange, who
I saw one morning in a  London  shop wearing his full nightclub
regalia and makeup. He told the surprised shopkeeper: “I’m
always on stage.” It’s good to have him back, though this isn’t
a patch on past glories. Rating: **.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Clash  on adventure,  Warwick
Thompson  on London theater,  Laurie Muchnick  on books and
 Stephanie Green’s  Scene in D.C.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 