-- Job Wanted: Baseball MVP Candidate Seeking Work on Wall Street
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-07-16T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/job-wanted-baseball-mvp-candidate-seeking-work-on-wall-street.html
Paul Goldschmidt said he was unsure
of whether he’d reach the big leagues as a minor-leaguer in
Mobile,  Alabama . So he lined up an internship at Morgan Stanley.  He was promoted to the  Arizona Diamondbacks  before he took
the job, though two years later the one-time college finance
major’s interest in business remains steadfast even after
becoming an All-Star with a five-year, $32 million contract
extension.  “I always said coming up in the minor leagues that if I
wanted to make money I would have just went to school and gotten
a real job,” Goldschmidt said. “I honestly never thought
baseball would be a job I could do that would get me paid.”  Goldschmidt, a 25-year-old first baseman who signed his
long-term contract the day before the 2013 season opener, has
been mentioned as a possible Most Valuable Player candidate this
season. He leads the National League with 77 runs batted in, is
fourth with 21 home runs and is ninth with a .319 batting
average. He’s on the the NL All-Star team for tonight’s game at
Citi Field in New York.  Goldschmidt, who grew up in the Houston area, majored in
finance at Texas State University before being drafted by
 Arizona  in 2009. He was playing Double-A ball in Alabama when he
set up the internship through Pat Combs, a former Philadelphia
Phillies pitcher who’s now a financial adviser. Goldschmidt made
his major league debut on Aug. 1, 2011, opting to stay in the
Phoenix area after the season.  Combs, who pitched for the Phillies from 1989-92 and has
been at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  since 2005, met Goldschmidt through an
acquaintance in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, where Goldschmidt’s
wife, Amy, grew up. Goldschmidt has wanted to learn about
finance since the first day they met, Combs said.  ‘Open Invitation’  “It’s an open invitation,” said Combs, 46.  “I told him
any time he was ready to come I’d have a spot for him, to sit
next to me and learn the business.”  Goldschmidt said that he still would be interested in an
offseason finance training program because his interest in the
topic hasn’t waned.  “I’ve been talking to people I know not just in finance
but throughout the business world to see if I can do some sort
of internship,” Goldschmidt said in an interview while visiting
New York for an early-July series against the Mets. “Even if
it’s just for a day, to follow someone around in their company
or a couple of different divisions over a week, whatever they’ll
let me do.”  Goldschmidt was taken in the eighth round of  Major League
Baseball ’s amateur draft and as a minor leaguer wasn’t
considered a top-10 Diamondbacks prospect by evaluators such as
 Baseball America . Combs -- whose office is in the center-field
suites at the  Texas Rangers ’ Ballpark at Arlington -- said
Goldschmidt’s humble personality may have worked against him.  Best Student  “He’s just not the typical guy that has this edge to
him,” Combs said. “I’m sure there were some guys who thought
he’s just not that serious about the game.”  His success is no surprise to Glenn Tanner, who taught
Goldschmidt in two classes at San Marcos-based Texas State. A
“phenomenally hard worker,” Goldschmidt finished near the top
of his introduction to finance class and was the best student in
a class that analyzed real-world financial data, Tanner said in
a telephone interview.  The two remained in touch after Goldschmidt was drafted,
and when the minor leaguer needed money to pay for his wedding
he used Tanner, an associate professor of finance, as a
reference.  “You’re going to think I’m exaggerating, but he’s
seriously one of the most impressive individuals I’ve met in my
entire life,” Tanner said he told the woman who called to check
on Goldschmidt’s background. “I would bet you money right now
that he’s either going to have a long career in professional
baseball or he’s going to be a Fortune 500 executive one day.”  Online Degree  The woman started laughing, telling Tanner that he was the
fifth person who had said that about Goldschmidt.  “I’ve been teaching for 15 or 20 years and I don’t think
I’ve ever seen anybody with that kind of drive and work ethic,”
Tanner said. “I want to tell my students to be more like Paul
Goldschmidt, but it’s like, ‘Gosh, I couldn’t be like that.’”  Goldschmidt, a 6-foot-3, 245-pound right-hander, is
completing his degree online at the  University of Phoenix  while
studying opposing pitchers and working on his baseball skills.
He has changed his major to a more general management degree to
get more credits to transfer, and is scheduled to graduate on
Aug. 19.  Long Career  Joe Buck, who along with Tim McCarver will announce the
All-Star Game on News Corp.’s Fox network, said Goldschmidt has
a long career ahead of him in baseball.  “You just wouldn’t know that this is one of the rising
stars,” Buck said on a conference call with reporters, noting
Goldschmidt’s quiet demeanor. “Make no mistake, this is a big
force at first base and a big force at the plate, and I think a
guy who’s blossoming into one of the toughest outs in
baseball.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  