-- Kansas City Fed’s George Urges Slowing Bond-Buying in September
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-07-16T20:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/kansas-city-fed-s-george-urges-slowing-bond-buying-in-september.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President Esther George, who has voted against bond purchases by
the central bank this year, said she favors slowing bond-buying
in September and ending purchases in the first half of next
years as the  job market  improves.  “If unemployment falls as expected and inflation moves
toward the 2 percent goal, then reducing the pace of purchases
in September and ending them next year is appropriate,” George,
55, said today in a speech in Kansas City, Missouri. The jobless
rate has fallen faster than expected and “if this were to occur
in the context of a firmer inflation outlook, then it may be
appropriate to reduce the pace of purchases more quickly than I
have suggested.”  George, in her first year as a Federal Open Market
Committee voter, has dissented against continuing monthly
purchases of $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities and $45
billion in Treasuries. She has said the record stimulus may
destabilize financial markets and push up long-term inflation
expectations.  Slowing purchases “continues to add accommodation but it
does provide a gradual adjustment process for financial
markets,” George said at the  Kansas  City Fed’s 2013
Agricultural Symposium. “Still, financial markets have reacted
to the realization that the pace of purchases is likely to slow
in the months ahead causing long-term interest rates to be more
volatile and move higher.”  ‘Foreseeable Future’  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last week he favored
maintaining stimulus “for the foreseeable future,” even as the
policy-making FOMC has been split on how quickly it should
reduce bond buying, or quantitative easing.  Bernanke, in a press conference following the June 19
statement, said the FOMC may taper bond purchases later this
year and end the program around mid-2014 as long as the economy
performs in line with the Fed’s forecasts. About half the 19
participants on the FOMC favor ending the program by year’s end,
according to meeting minutes released last week.  The U.S. economy is likely to expand at about a 2 percent
rate this year, lifted by continued job growth a stronger
housing market, and may accelerate as early as 2014, George
said. The U.S. unemployment rate stood at 7.6 percent in June.  Labor Market  “Changes in the labor market suggest that adding jobs at
around 150,000 to 200,000 a month is enough to take care of
population growth in the country as well as to begin” to
provide additional jobs that reduce joblessness, George said.
“While we still see a fair amount of slack in the labor market,
we have seen steady progress.”  Business investment and hiring have been limited by factors
outside the Fed’s control, including regulatory policies, and
U.S. fiscal policy, she said.  Asked during an audience question period about possible
asset price bubbles, George said it is hard to identify a bubble
as it is occurring yet said she is monitoring markets including
“leveraged lending” and real estate investment trusts.
Farmland prices in recent sales could also create concern for
lenders if prices correct, she said.  “I have for some time expressed concern about the
distortions that can be created by zero interest rates and asset
purchases,” George said.  In an interview earlier today on Fox Business Network,
George repeated that she favored slowing asset purchases because
of progress in the labor market.  Steady Gains  “The labor market has shown now for the last six months
pretty steady gains of close to 200,000 per month” in payroll
growth, she said. “That is a good indicator that there has been
sustained improvement here and I think it would be appropriate
given the size of our balance sheet and the level of
accommodation that we begin to make adjustments that reflect
that improvement.”  George, who became chief of the Kansas City Fed in 2011,
was the Fed district bank’s No. 2 official under Thomas Hoenig,
now vice chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. She
joined the Kansas City Fed in 1982 and spent much of her career
in bank supervision.  The Kansas City district represents  Colorado , Kansas,
 Nebraska ,  Oklahoma ,  Wyoming , northern New Mexico and western
Missouri.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  