-- Ambani Gas Set to Revive Stalled Power Projects: Corporate India
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-07-17T07:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/keeping-lights-on-may-mean-diverting-ambani-gas-corporate-india.html
India is considering a plan to
divert natural gas supplies from  Mukesh Ambani ’s field to revive
$21 billion of power projects stalled by the lack of fuel.  A panel of ministers scheduled to meet today will discuss
diverting gas away from fertilizer makers to electricity plants,
Oil Minister Veerappa Moily told reporters yesterday. More than
8,000 megawatts of new capacity is lying idle because of the
shortage caused by dwindling output, according to the
Association of Power Producers.  A decline in India’s natural gas production for 29
consecutive months has hurt generators, oil refineries and  steel
mills , while slowing the pace of economic growth to a decade
low. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , struggling to provide
electricity to all the 1.2 billion people, must reorder
priorities and place emphasis on power production to spur the
$1.9 trillion economy, said Alex Mathews, head of research at
Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services Ltd.  “The biggest challenge for the government right now is to
keep the lights on,” Mathews said by telephone from the
southern Indian city of Kochi. “The power companies are
struggling because of the shortage and returns are pretty low.
It’s a sector investors are keeping away from.”  Gas Priorities  The government currently prioritizes gas supplies to
fertilizer makers, followed by liquefied petroleum gas
extractors and power generators. India had 20,359 megawatts of
gas-based electricity generating capacity, or 9 percent of the
total, as of May 31, according to data provided by the Central
Electricity Authority.  Companies including  GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. (GVKP) ,
controlled by billionaire G.V. Krishna Reddy, to  Lanco Infratech
Ltd. (LANCI)  and state-owned  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC)  may get about 9 million cubic
meters a day of gas from  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ’s field, an
oil ministry official said yesterday, asking not to be
identified before any public announcement.  Billionaire Ambani’s Reliance-operated KG-D6 field off
India’s east coast in the  Bay of Bengal  has seen a three-year
decline in gas production, with output dropping more than 75
percent in the past three years. Reliance says the field has
proved more difficult to produce from than initially envisioned,
with higher costs for deeper areas.  Pricing Formula  Last month, the government allowed explorers to charge a
higher price for gas for the first time in three years to help
increase production. It approved a gas pricing formula that will
increase prices more than 90 percent to about $8 per million
British thermal units.  The higher price, starting April 1, will make an additional
3 trillion cubic feet, equivalent to a year and half of the
country’s consumption, economically viable to produce, according
to Moily.  Gas shortages have contributed to GVK Power’s  operating
margins , or profit from operations as a percentage to total
revenue, narrowing to 11.27 percent in the year ended March 31,
the lowest in at least eight years. Return on assets, a measure
of profitability relative to total assets, at  Reliance Power
Ltd. (RPWR) , which is controlled by Ambani’s younger brother Anil,
dropped to 2.22 percent, the least in four years.  Share Slump  Shares of 19 of the 20 companies in the S&P BSE India Power
index have declined this year. The gauge has dropped 16 percent
in 2013, compared with a 2.6 percent gain in the benchmark  S&P
BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  index.  GVK Power rose as much as 2.8 percent to 7.35 rupees and
traded at 7.11 rupees as of 12:58 p.m. in Mumbai. Reliance Power
 gained  as much as 4.7 percent to 81.95 rupees and NTPC rose as
much as 2 percent to 146.10 rupees.  Allocating the additional gas “is only half the
solution,” said Ashok Khurana, director general of the
Association of Power Producers, which counts  Tata Power Ltd. (TPWR) ,
Reliance Power and Adani Power Ltd. as members. “We have also
asked the petroleum ministry to reserve the future finds for the
power sector.”  Earmarking 9 million cubic meters a day of gas will help
generate about 2,500 megawatts of power, he said.  NTPC, the nation’s biggest generator, expects to get as
much as 40 percent of the new allocation, which will help it
operate its gas-based stations at an average 55 percent of
capacity versus 49 percent now, operations director N.N. Misra
said in a telephone interview yesterday. The company has 3,955
megawatts of gas-based generation capacity, according to its
website.  Factory Output  Lower power production contributed to  India ’s  industrial
output  unexpectedly contracting in May. Production at factories,
utilities and mines declined 1.6 percent from a year earlier,
the worst performance in a year, Central Statistical Office data
showed on July 12.  A shortfall in coal supplies is also adding to the woes of
power generators. Lack of transport infrastructure, labor unrest
and delays in environment approvals and land acquisitions have
kept the nation’s coal output below demand, forcing users to go
for more expensive overseas purchases.  Asia ’s biggest energy consumer after  China  plans to add
88,537 megawatt of power generation capacity in the five years
to March 2017, 81 percent of which will be run on coal or gas,
according to the Central Electricity Authority.  Fertilizer makers and power stations use more than three
fourths of the gas available in India. The crop nutrients are
given to farmers at subsidized prices to keep food prices down.
Diverting gas from fertilizer users will force the nation to
increase imports of the nutrients by as much as 5 million tons a
year, the oil ministry official said.  “The new allocation is a beginning in the right direction,
but certainly not enough for the power sector,” said Debasish Mishra, a partner and head of the energy practice at Deloitte
Touche Tohmatsu India Pvt. in Mumbai. “It’s a tightrope walk
for the government, as sharing the gas with power sector would
mean the government’s fertilizer subsidy will go up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  