-- Kerry Returns to Mideast on Israeli-Palestinian Peace
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-07-16T16:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/kerry-returns-to-mideast-on-israeli-palestinian-peace.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
arrived in  Jordan  today on his sixth trip to the  Middle East  in
as many months to push Israelis and Palestinians back to peace
talks and meet with Arab officials to discuss the upheaval in
 Egypt  and Syria.  Kerry, who was in the region two weeks ago, claimed
progress at that time in prodding Israelis and Palestinians
toward renewed negotiations and in reaching agreement with
 Russia  about an eventual peace conference on Syria’s civil war.
State Department officials are downplaying expectations for this
visit, portraying it as a chance for Kerry to make good on a
pledge to keep Arab leaders updated.  Kerry met with Jordanian Foreign Minister Nasser Judeh in
Amman today and said afterward that he may go to a camp for
Syrian refugees. The UN estimates that almost 500,000 people
have crossed into Jordan to escape fighting in Syria.  “I think we may wind up visiting one of the refugee camps
as we talk about Syria,” Kerry said. “We were just chatting
about the importance of that.”  Kerry is scheduled to have a private dinner tonight with
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas . He has no plans
to visit Israel or meet with Israeli leaders on this trip,
according to State Department spokeswoman Jennifer Psaki.Z  Peace Initiative  Tomorrow Kerry is slated to meet with Jordan’s King
Abdullah and officials from the  Arab League ’s Peace Initiative
Committee, a group focused on ending the Arab-Israeli conflict.
Kerry last met with the committee in  Washington  on April 29.  The European Union said today that it will no longer let
subsidies and grants go to Israeli organizations in the  West
Bank ,  Gaza Strip  or Golan Heights, areas beyond Israel’s 1967
borders.  Israel annexed the Golan Heights in a move never recognized
internationally and says that the fate of settlements in the
West Bank should be settled as part of a peace agreement.  Israel 
pulled out of Gaza in 2005.  “The latest decision is one in a long list of decisions
that are causing Israel’s isolation in the world,” Israeli
Finance Minister Yair Lapid said in an e-mailed statement.
“Time is not working in our favor. Every day that Israel isn’t
negotiating peace is a day during which more damage is caused to
its international standing.”  Lapid said in the statement that he intends to talk with
Israel’s friends in the EU and explain to them that the decision
is damaging their goal of achieving peace.  Syria Consultation  In addition to updating his counterparts on Mideast peace
efforts, Kerry will take advantage of their presence to outline
the U.S. view on conditions in Syria. Syrian Opposition
Coalition elections have established a new Syrian opposition
leadership, another point of discussion, according to a State
Department official who wasn’t authorized to speak for
attribution.  Kerry also will describe Deputy Secretary  William Burns ’s
meetings in Cairo this week with Egyptian officials, the
official said. In meetings with Egypt’s military-installed
interim leadership and civil society groups, Burns has
emphasized that the U.S. backs a rapid transfer to civilian
governance, transparency and the rule of law, the official said.  Burns took care to stress that the U.S. isn’t telling
Egyptians what to do, the official said. The official didn’t
explain why Burns didn’t meet with the Muslim Brotherhood, the
group that backed ousted President Mohamed Mursi.  ‘Steps Forward’  While refusing to provide details about Kerry’s plans to
work on the Mideast  peace process  during the trip, Psaki said
yesterday that “the secretary would not be going back to the
region if he did not feel there was an opportunity to keep
taking steps forward in providing an update to representatives
of the Arab League, as part of that. But beyond that, I don’t
have any announcements or predictions to make for all of you.”  On his last visit, Kerry asked two advisers to stay behind
to consult with the Israelis and Palestinians. Frank Lowenstein
and  Jonathan Schwartz  have been there for the past couple of
weeks, the State Department official said.  Kerry also is expected to meet with officials from Egypt’s
interim government on Wednesday, according to the State
Department official. The official said it wasn’t clear which
officials would come or how high-ranking they would be.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  