-- Won Rises to Five-Week High on Shipbuilder Contracts; Bonds Fall
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-07-16T06:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/korean-won-climbs-to-five-week-high-on-shipbuilder-contracts.html
South Korea’s won climbed to a five-week high on speculation local shipbuilders are flooding the
market with dollars after winning international orders.
 Government bonds  fell.  Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. and Samsung
Heavy Industries Co. received a combined 2.4 trillion won ($2.2
billion) of contracts for drillships, according to regulatory
filings yesterday. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will
deliver his semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress this
week after minutes of the Fed’s last policy meeting released
July 10 showed “about half” of participants indicated “it
likely would be appropriate” to end bond buying this year.  “Heavy industrial companies that won overseas deals are
supplying dollars to the market,” said Hong Seok Chan, an
analyst at Daishin Economic Research Institute in Seoul. “The
won’s gain may be limited as investors are waiting for
Bernanke’s comment for any clues on the Fed’s exit strategy.”  The won strengthened 0.4 percent to 1,118 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
1,117.15, the strongest level since June 7. One-month implied
volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used
to price options, fell 21 basis points, or 0.21 percentage point,
to 8.10 percent.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said today in Seoul
that the central bank will ensure the soundness of the financial
system as the Fed’s possible tapering of bond purchases raises
the risk of higher  interest rates .  The yield on the 2.75 percent government notes due March
2018 rose one basis point to 3.14 percent, according to prices
from Korea Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  