-- N.Z. Government’s Meridian IPO Will Be ‘Challenging,’ AMP Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-07-16T03:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/n-z-government-s-meridian-ipo-will-be-challenging-amp-says.html
The  New Zealand  government may
struggle to attract investors to its next offering of shares in
a state-owned power company, according to the country’s biggest
non-government fund manager.  The initial public offering of Meridian Energy Ltd. is
“going to be really challenging,” Guy Elliffe, head of New
Zealand equities at AMP Capital Investors, said at a press
briefing in Wellington today. “Investors have absorbed a lot of
supply, so there’s a few digestion issues, and Mighty River
could have been a more edifying experience.”  In May, the government reaped NZ$1.7 billion ($1.3 billion)
for a 48 percent stake in Mighty River Power Ltd., whose shares
are now trading below the issue price. It aims to raise between
NZ$5 billion and NZ$7 billion by selling shares in state-owned
companies and has slated the sale of as much as 49 percent of
Meridian, New Zealand’s biggest power company, for later this
year. The government has also said it will divest a stake in
Genesis Power Ltd.  Mighty River shares fell as low as NZ$2.20 on June 21 after
being sold in the IPO at NZ$2.50 apiece. They rose 1 cent to
NZ$2.41 at 3:10 p.m. in Wellington.  Elliffe said while the state-owned utilities are “pretty
interesting companies and pretty well managed,” they carry
political risk that could hamper demand for their shares.  Opposition parties have said they would alter the
industry’s structure if voted into government next year by
creating a state agency to buy wholesale electricity at a
regulated price, creating uncertainty over the future value of
the power companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  