-- Nexans Mulls U.S. Subsea Cable Plant for $3.9 Billion Market
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-07-16T16:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/nexans-mulls-u-s-submarine-cable-plant-for-3-9-billion-market.html
Nexans SA (NEX)  is considering the
construction of a new plant for submarine power cables in  Asia 
or the U.S. to prepare for expected demand growth and ease
bottlenecks at an existing facility in  Norway .  The $3.9 billion market is growing by 7 percent to 8
percent a year, and Nexans is starting to plan for a build up in
capacity to prevent further strain on existing operations, said
high-voltage and subsea cable chief Frederic Michelland in an
interview at the company’s Paris headquarters. Nexans shares 
surged 4.2 percent today, making it the third-biggest gainer in 
the French SBF 120 index which lost 0.7 percent.  While  Europe  accounts for 80 percent of the subsea cabling
market, the Americas and Asia-Pacific “will take off at some
point,” Michelland said. “We’re thinking about these issues at
the moment because the construction of a plant takes at least
three or four years.”  Nexans, the world’s second-largest cable maker, doubled the
workforce at its Halden, Norway plant after subsea cabling
revenue doubled in four years. Slowing demand for construction
and land high-voltage cables in Europe and the  Middle East  has
combined with poorly performing underwater contracts, squeezing
the  operating margin  and heightening the need for Nexans to
rekindle profits at the division.  Oil Platforms  The company’s backlog for underwater power cables, which
are used to connect power grids, offshore wind farms and oil and
gas platforms, represents about 1.2 billion euros ($1.6
billion), or more than 2 1/2 years’ worth of sales at the
division. The strain on existing factories has now stabilized
and Nexans is putting measures in place to cope with growth,
according to the executive.  Nexans, which is investing $85 million to build a land
high-voltage cable plant in  South Carolina , may decide to add a
manufacturing line for underwater power cables at the location
to supply North and South American markets, Michelland said.  The French company owns 66 percent of a venture which makes
submarine cables in  Japan , and will have to consider adding
capacity in Asia at some point, though it won’t be able to do
“everything at once,” he said.  For now, submarine cable margins this year will remain in
“low single digits,” similar to last year, as Nexans unravels
delays and cost overruns of long-standing contracts, Michelland
said.  Contract Selection  “We’re currently working to make sure that all contracts
we’re taking are aligned with the target of coming back to a
normalized double-digit profitability in submarine cables,” the
executive said.  Better earnings will come as Nexans improves processes
beyond cabling manufacturing, including testing, loading and
rigging of cables as such expenses account for 30 percent to 40
percent of overall cable-project costs.  Debt almost tripled last year to 606 million euros as
margins dwindled and the company spent 341 million euros on
acquisitions, including a majority stake in a maker of land
high-voltage cables in  China . That market has remained buoyant,
the executive said.  In Europe, plans to cut costs in land-based high-voltage
cabling are being drawn up to counter stiffening competition.  “This market is much more competitive because many
capacities have been added in the 2003-2007 period, which have
contributed to imbalance demand and supply,” Michelland said.
“There may be between 15 percent and 20 percent overcapacity in
the land high-voltage market in Europe.”  “Overcapacities might be absorbed little by little but
they are obviously weighing on prices,” he said. “If you miss
out on a big contract, you’re going to have to fight on plenty
of small contracts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  