-- Nike Just Doesn’t Do It With Lost Sales Year in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-17T20:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/nike-s-lost-year-in-china-serves-as-cautionary-tale.html
Not long ago,  Nike Inc. (NKE)  could simply
open stores in China and wait for newly minted middle-class
shoppers to show up.  No longer. Though it has been in China for 30 years, the
world’s largest sporting-goods maker is losing customers to
 Adidas AG (ADS) ’s more fashionable street wear and  Hennes & Mauritz
AB (HMB) ’s cheap, hip clothing. Making matters worse, Nike is knee-deep in unsold merchandise after a projected post-Olympics sales
bump didn’t materialize.  Eighteen months ago, Nike was so bullish on China it
predicted sales there would double to $4 billion in four years.
Now it says China sales will probably fall for the next two
quarters, which would make it five in a row.  “You have to be a smarter retailer now,” said Camilo Lyon, an analyst for Canaccord Financial Inc. in New York who
recommends holding the shares. “Now the consumer has become
more educated and global and sold to a lot more. Everybody is
forced to become sharper.”  So far, Nike’s challenges in China haven’t spooked
investors because sales growth in  North America  remains robust.
In the past year, revenue in company’s largest market surged 18
percent.  Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike has advanced 23 percent
this year to $62.70, compared with an 18 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The stock gained 1 percent to
$63.33 at the close in New York. Analysts expect the shares to
rise to $66.03 in the next 12 months, according to the average
of 29 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sluggish Economy  Nike executives have blamed the reversal in China on a
sluggish economy and changing consumer tastes. The company
continues to believe it has the right strategy to capitalize on
the country’s tremendous growth potential, Mary Remuzzi, a
spokeswoman for Nike, said in an e-mail. Nike declined to make
an executive available for this story.  Nike entered China in 1982. It became the nation’s best-selling sportswear brand by building basketball courts,
organizing grassroots competitions and provided funding to
sporting leagues such as the Chinese Basketball Association and
the Chinese Super League soccer.  It sponsored Chinese athletes ranging from national 110-meter hurdler Liu Xiang to former French Open winner  Li Na . The
2008 Olympics in Beijing helped goose sales, which doubled to $2
billion by 2011. While China made up 9.6 percent of Nike’s
revenue last fiscal year, the company generated 25 percent of
its profits there before interest and taxes.  Inventory Pileup  Then the momentum stopped and inventories started piling
up. The same thing happened to Adidas yet it started discounting
earlier than Nike to clean out unsold merchandise. Last summer,
it became clear that Nike inventories were growing faster than
sales. Revenue from China, excluding the effect of currency
exchange-rate fluctuations, declined 5 percent to $2.45 billion
in the fiscal year ended May 31. These results came as  China’s
retail sales  grew more than 10 percent.  Nike has said the sizing of its apparel hasn’t kept up with
changing consumer demands for a tighter fit. Not having a
precise fit mattered less when the power of the Nike brand was
enough to move products, says Faye Landes, an analyst for Cowen
& Co. in  New York , who recommends buying the shares.  “The demand was so strong and the business was going so
well” that fit didn’t matter, she said in an interview. “Now
they’ve realized there’s room for improvement.”  Middle Ground  Adidas, based in Herzogenaurach,  Germany , has sought a
middle ground between sportswear and fast fashion with NEO, a
youth-oriented brand it is pushing aggressively in China, which
has become NEO’s biggest market.  “Adidas has done the best job of staying ahead of the pack
with their understanding of the Chinese consumer,” said Terry
Rhoads, managing director a Zou Marketing, a sports consulting
firm in Shanghai. “Understanding how they wanted to have
fashion and sport together.”  Eric Yang, a 20-year-old student at  Shanghai ’s Industrial
and Commercial Foreign language school, was recently sporting a
pair of retro black Adidas Originals sneakers with green and
orange stripes. Yang prefers Adidas to Nike because he says the
German brand provides better value for money.  “There are Nike and Adidas discount outlets just next to
each other outside our school,” he said. “The Adidas outlet is
always packed, and the Nike one is never crowded.”  Fast Fashion  Many Chinese youths are gravitating to less pricey fast
fashion. Sally Wang, an 18-year-old from Zhejiang province, used
to wear Nike and Adidas when she was younger and hardly ever
dons sportswear anymore.  “When you are younger, you don’t really care and wear
whatever your parents buy you,” she said. “But when you’re
older and can chose, Nike and Adidas are rather pricey to me.”  Nike’s marketing also faces hurdles in a changing society.
The company continues to use athletes to convey the message that
anyone can aspire to greatness -- a harder sell these days in a
nation where Chinese parents, long focused on academic
achievement, are putting ever more emphasis on hitting the books
than the basketball or tennis court. Adidas, by contrast, has
shifted from a hard-core sports message to one focused on
fashion and lifestyle, said Jimmy Qin, a vice president at
sports consulting firm Octagon.  “The boys complain,” Wang said. “They say: ‘My parents
are making me stay home and now I can’t play basketball.’”  As it struggles to recover lost ground in  China , Nike is
culling inventory, introducing revamped products and upgrading
merchandising. In May, it replaced the top China executive. In
an encouraging sign, sales are growing at Nike’s largest retail
partners there, Chief Financial Officer Donald Blair said on a
conference call with analysts on June 27.  “Nevertheless, we still have a lot of work to do,” Blair
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  