-- Notenstein Hires Topatigh, Wolfers for Structured Products Sales
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-07-16T12:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/notenstein-hires-topatigh-wolfers-for-structured-products-sales.html
Notenstein Private Bank Ltd. , a unit
of  Switzerland ’s Raiffeisen Group, hired Claudio Topatigh and
Sinah Wolfers to join its new structured products business.  The pair, who worked in structured product sales at
Zuercher Kantonalbank, will take up similar roles at the private
bank in Zurich, they said in e-mailed responses to questions.
They joined ZKB in 2007 from Swiss Capital Group AG.  St. Gallen , Switzerland-based Notenstein, which has
distributed structured products issued by other banks for more
than two decades, started selling its own securities in March
after it became the biggest shareholder in  Leonteq AG. (LEON)  Its
expansion into Switzerland’s $182 billion structured notes
market comes as other institutions including Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and Rabobank Groep exit the business amid
rising costs and tighter regulations.  “Although the structured products market can’t be
considered a growing one because the share of products in
investor portfolios has been declining for years, it still can
be profitable for issuers that have strong links to domestic
investors,” Topatigh said in a telephone interview.  Structured products now make up the smallest share of Swiss
investor holdings in more than six years. The securities
accounted for  3.6 percent  of banks’ client deposits in April,
the latest month for which data from the  Swiss National Bank  is
available, and compares with 4.5 percent a year earlier, the
Swiss Structured Products Association wrote in a report
published last week.   Debut Note  Notenstein issued its first structured notes on March 19,
with securities tied to the stock performance of BASF SE,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank is currently
offering  seven notes  based on the share prices of companies from
 Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  to Nestle SA paying coupons as high as 11.8
percent, according to its website.  “We’re confident that there are still interesting growth
opportunities for a very solid Swiss issuer with a broad product
offering,” said Patrik Ruethemann, the bank’s head of products
and trading.  Topatigh said he will report to Ruethemann and Wolfers will
report to him.  Notenstein entered the structured products market after it
acquired a 20.25 percent stake in Leonteq, formerly EFG
Financial Products Holding AG, for 70.2 million Swiss francs
($74.1 million) in March. Raiffeisen Group, which acquired
Notenstein in January 2012, is rated Aa2 by Moody’s Investors
Service, its third-highest investment-grade ranking, and acts as
guarantor for the private bank’s securities.  High Costs  Edinburgh-based  RBS (RBS)  said last month it will stop issuing
structured products because of high capital costs and expenses
for the securities and will close the business or sell it. BNP
Paribas SA, Commerzbank AG and Societe Generale SA are among
banks considering bids for some or all of the business, people
with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the process is private, said earlier this month.  Switzerland’s Basler Kantonalbank also said in June it will
stop selling structured products because rules governing the
securities reduced their profitability. Dutch lender Rabobank
also said it was closing its equity derivatives unit in March
because new regulations for selling structured notes to wealthy
individuals would involve increased costs.  Notenstein has no immediate plans to hire more structured
products professionals, according to Ruethemann.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  