-- NUM Keeps Recruiting as Lonmin Shuts Bullet-Marked Office
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-07-16T11:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/num-keeps-recruiting-as-lonmin-shuts-bullet-marked-office.html
The National Union of Mineworkers
won’t stop recruiting at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , where today it ceases to be
the majority labor group and must vacate bullet-marked offices
after a pact with the third-biggest platinum producer expires.  “There’s no way we can stop what we already started,”
Luphert Chilwane, a spokesman for NUM recruitment, said
yesterday. He stood outside Lonmin’s Rowland shaft, about 120
kilometers (75 miles) west of Johannesburg, as workers wearing
coveralls and mining helmets finished their shift, walking past
a truck with a stack of free red NUM T-shirts on the tailgate.  The 30 year-old NUM has been on a monthlong push to  regain
members  at the company, where the Association of Mineworkers and
Construction Union has grown to represent about 70 percent of
underground workers. The NUM fought against the expiration of
its official majority in a labor court, which found the union
was entitled to keep associated privileges, including a main
office, through a contract ending July 16. The court yesterday
dismissed the NUM’s bid to have this extended.  Members of both unions have been killed since May, adding
to mine violence that led to at least 44 deaths last year,
including 34 protesters killed by police on Aug. 16 at a hill
within sight of the Rowland shaft. Some of the others who died
were killed in fighting between members of the two unions.  Mining strikes in 2012 caused almost 15 billion rand ($1.5
billion) in lost output in South Africa and shaved about 0.5
percentage point off  gross domestic product , according to the
National Treasury.  Membership Threshold  The NUM will be able to relocate to a central office with
other minority membership unions, Sue Vey, a Lonmin spokeswoman,
said by phone yesterday.  “If we start talking about 50 percent plus one, that’s an
unrealistic goal,” Chilwane said of the membership threshold it
would need to reach to maintain previous privileges. The NUM
held such a majority of Lonmin labor until the AMCU’s rolls rose
in the last year. Workers have been “confused” and “shocked”
and most of them are just defending their lives by following
along the safest path, he said.  The NUM has referred claims about the validity of AMCU
membership forms to the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation
and Arbitration in Johannesburg, which will hold a hearing on
the question on July 17,  Lesiba Seshoka , a spokesman for the
union, said after the labor court’s decision on July 14.  Recruitment Efforts  “We need young people to further recruit other young
people,” said Peterson Siyaya, 27, national deputy secretary of
the NUM’s youth forum. He opened his track-suit jacket to show a
red T-shirt with “Defend and Advance” printed in an arch of
black letters. “It’s not violent,” he said.  In the late afternoon, about three dozen NUM recruiters
returned to their office for possibly their last meeting at the
location. It is clearly marked with signs showing the union’s
logo and the African National Congress, South Africa’s ruling
party.  Chilwane pointed out a bullet hole in a window and a corner
a few feet where a NUM official was shot dead in June.  The office floor-plan is identical to the AMCU’s office
next door, which was quiet.  “We want members to feel our presence; most of them are
confused, they are intimidated,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  