-- NYC Adds 32 Parks to WiFi System in Deal With Cable Companies
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-07-16T18:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/nyc-adds-32-parks-to-wifi-system-in-deal-with-cable-companies.html
New York City  added 32 parks to a
growing system of wireless  Internet access  as part of a deal
with its two cable-television providers.  WiFi service for users of smartphones, tablets, laptops and
other mobile devices will be free for broadband customers of
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) ,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , Comcast
Corp., Cox Communications Inc. and Bright House Networks LLC,
city officials said. Those without those services can get free
WiFi for 10 minutes three times a month, or can to buy it for 99
cents per day for one device.  “This initiative expands WiFi service to millions of New
Yorkers and visitors in some of our city’s most beautiful and
historic sites,” Rahul Merchant, the city’s chief information
and innovation officer, said in a news release.  The service is part of the city’s 2011 franchise agreement
with New York-based Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S.
cable provider, and Bethpage, New York-based Cablevision, the
fifth largest. As part of the contract, the companies agreed to
maintain the city’s WiFi system through 2020 in parks and public
spaces, mostly outside  Manhattan . The cable providers created a
$10 million fund to pay for it, according to the city.  The sites include Manhattan’s Bryant, Madison Square and
Riverside parks. Central Park already has WiFi near the zoo,
Tavern on the Green and Mineral Springs north of the Sheep
Meadow. Mobile devices can also access Internet service on the
High Line on the West Side.  In Brooklyn, hotspots will be located in Coney Island’s
Steeplechase Park and in Manhattan Beach and Gravesend Park,
among other places. A full list is available on the Parks
Department website, www.nyc.gov/parkswifi.  The new deal brings the total number of parks equipped with
WiFi to 51, according to the Parks Department  website .  The parks and information-technology departments are part
of the administration of Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and
chairman of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  