-- Obama’s Confused Syria Policy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-16T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/obama-s-confused-syria-policy.html
By now it’s clear that the U.S.’s
new policy toward Syria -- we use the word “new” advisedly --
remains unclear. The question is what President  Barack Obama  is
willing to do about it.  A month ago, the administration announced it would begin
training and arming opposition fighters in Syria. Now  it emerges 
that this aid hasn’t yet hit the ground, and when it does, it
will involve only small arms in uncertain quantities.  What exactly is the administration’s policy here? If the
goal is to roll back the Hezbollah and Iranian forces that have
helped turn the tide in favor of President Bashar al-Assad in
Syria’s civil war, then such a small-scale move won’t make the
difference. Nor will it stop the bloodshed, enable humanitarian
aid to reach civilians, force the two sides to negotiate, or
remove Assad -- all of which are the U.S.’s stated goals.  Perhaps the administration’s strategy is a more
Machiavellian attempt to bleed Hezbollah and the Iranian
Revolutionary Guard Corps dry on the battlefields of Qusair,
Homs and Aleppo. If so, again, a slow trickle of small arms
won’t achieve the goal.  Maybe the effort makes sense as part of a continued policy
of avoiding any entanglement in Syria while at the same time
showing that the U.S. president will enforce any  red line  he
sets out -- in Syria’s case, the use of chemical weapons; in
Iran’s, the development of nuclear ones. But such a weak
response to the Syrian regime’s alleged use of sarin gas is more
likely to have the opposite effect: reassuring al-Assad -- and
Iran’s Ayatollah Ali Khamenei -- that the U.S. has no interest
in risking further blood or treasure in the Middle East.  The most convincing explanation of Obama’s Syria policy is
that it is designed simply to play for time in a vexed,
desperate situation -- arming the rebels just enough to assuage
critics in Congress but not enough to run the risk of pouring
fuel on the fire.  In fairness to Obama, all the options in  Syria  are
terrible. Arming and training the Free Syrian Army has a smaller
chance of success today than when Obama’s security officials
proposed the policy last year, and has become less appealing.
Radical Islamists, including butchers who behead their opponents
on camera, were marginal to the conflict a year ago. Now they
are central to it. Does anyone really want to help them win, or
take the risk that they acquire sophisticated U.S. weapons?  If the U.S. strategy in Syria is to avoid getting involved,
however, then Obama should say so. He should explain why the
U.S. doesn’t have enough at stake in Syria to intervene, what
outcomes he is willing to accept, and why  Iran  is an entirely
different case in which the red line really is red.  On Syria’s current trajectory, two outcomes are
increasingly likely. One is that Assad retains power and
reasserts control over Syria. Leaving aside the huge number of
atrocities that were and continue to be committed by his regime,
including the slaughter of unarmed protesters who were asking
for the right to vote, this result is perfectly acceptable. Just
ask the Russians.  The other currently plausible outcome is that the country
fractures and becomes a failed state, parts of which would be
controlled by al-Qaeda affiliates such as the al-Nusra Front. In
this case, these groups could easily end up with sophisticated
weapons from Syria’s stocks of chemical, anti-aircraft and other
weapons.  Neither of these scenarios serves U.S. interests or values.
Thus Obama’s dilemma in Syria: Neither complete neglect nor
complete involvement is desirable or even possible. Whatever the
U.S.’s policy is, it will be unsatisfying and situational.  There will come a day when it is too late to organize and
arm the Free Syrian Army. For now, a genuine effort to tip the
balance on the battlefield and drive Assad to the negotiating
table remains available -- if tipping the balance is not a
professed goal but an actual one.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 