-- Obama Says Optimism Remains for Immigration Legislation
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-07-16T22:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/obama-says-optimism-remains-for-immigration-legislation.html
President  Barack Obama  said he
remains optimistic that Congress will eventually pass a new
immigration law while conceding that he won’t get his top
legislative priority done by his original August deadline.  The president, in a series of interviews today with
Spanish-language television stations, urged Republican leaders
to push for support for the legislation among their members in
the House, where opposition to it has grown.  “If we can see some leadership from members of the
 Republican Party ,” he said in an interview with  Dallas  station
KXTX, “eventually we’ll get something passed out of the
House.”  Since the Democratic-controlled Senate passed a
comprehensive revision of immigration policy with bipartisan
support on June 27, prospects for similar action by the House
has dimmed. House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican ,
rejected the Senate bill in favor of rewriting parts of the
nation’s immigration laws with a series of separate bills.  Boehner’s piecemeal approach has drawn out the process,
Obama said, making it impossible for legislation to be passed
before Congress leaves in August for a month-long recess.  Obama has been urging Congress to act before then to avoid
having wrangling over immigration spill into the 2014
congressional election season. Lawmakers, after returning from
their August break, also will be debating raising the federal
debt limit and other budget issues.  More Work  “We may have to go through several more weeks of work
before we actually pass the bill,” Obama said according to a
transcript. “So it probably will, hopefully happen in the
fall.”  The series of interviews marked a ratcheting up of Obama’s
public involvement in the immigration debate. The White House
has struggled to balance keeping up pressure for passage without
undermining its prospects for Republican support.  Speaking to Univision and Telemundo stations in Denver,  New
York , Dallas, and  Los Angeles , Obama argued that rewriting U.S.
immigration laws -- including creating a pathway to citizenship
for the country’s 11 million undocumented immigrants -- would
benefit the  U.S. economy .  “If we fix the legal immigration system, then we can
attract the best and the brightest from all around the world,
and that’s a net plus for our economy,” Obama said in an
interview with KDEN in Denver.  Many House Republicans object to giving immigrants who
entered the country illegally a way to gain legal status, as
called for in the Senate measure. That issue is one of the most
contentious topics in the immigration debate.  House Republicans leaders have warned Obama that a big push
by the White House could make it harder for some of their
members to back the legislation. So far, the White House has
largely taken a wait-and-see approach, with officials saying
Obama has no immediate plans to travel the country for
immigration-related events or deliver a high-profile speech on
the topic.  “ House Republicans , I think, still have to process this
issue and discuss it further,” Obama told the Dallas station.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  