-- Loewe ‘Made in Germany’ Flops as TV Maker Seeks Debt Protection
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   C l a u d i a   R a c h
-- 2013-07-16T10:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/loewe-made-in-germany-flops-as-tv-maker-seeks-debt-protection.html
Loewe AG (LOE) , the German television
maker responsible for the first public TV transmission in 1931,
applied for protection from creditors after its focus on quality
“made in  Germany ” failed to revive sales.  The company, which produces exclusively in the country,
filed for creditor protection, a process comparable to Chapter
11 in the U.S., at the Coburg local court to help reorganize
with the help of strategic partners and investors, Chairman
Matthias Harsch said in a  statement  today.  Loewe was  founded  in Berlin in 1923 by Siegmund and David
Ludwig Loewe. The founders left Germany as the Nazis
“aryanized” Jewish-owned enterprises, and the company
restarted production in the Bavarian town of Kronach after World
War II. In recent years it struggled to win buyers for high-end
flat-screen TVs, audio speakers and home entertainment systems,
as sales fell to 250 million euros ($327 million) last year from
374 million euros in 2008.  “Loewe is entirely dependent on the European market, where
demand for TV sets is very weak,” said Anne Gronski, an analyst
at Matelan Research GmbH. “They should have outsourced earlier
to compensate for the drastic drop in TV prices.”  Loewe shares plummeted as much as 27 percent today, before
rebounding to trade 3.3 percent higher at 2.05 euros as of 12:30
p.m. in  Frankfurt . That pared the drop to 26 percent this year.  While Loewe was speculated to be a takeover target for
Apple Inc. last year, the company has denied it held talks with
the iPhone maker. Loewe, which hasn’t been profitable in three
years, said it remains solvent. Sharp Corp. had a  stake  of about
29 percent in Loewe at the end of last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Rach in Berlin at 
 crach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  