-- Oi’s $1.1 Billion Asset Sale Safeguards Dividend Pledge
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-07-16T17:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/oi-s-1-1-billion-asset-sale-safeguards-dividend-pledge.html
Oi SA’s $1.1 billion asset selloff
is reassuring investors that Chief Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava 
can turn around the fortunes of Brazil’s biggest phone company.  The sale of undersea cables and towers announced yesterday
shores up funding for a company that has pledged to pay out 2
billion reais ($900 million) to shareholders this year, invest 6
billion reais in infrastructure and reduce its 27.5 billion
reais in debt, the most among local peers. The stock rose the
most in more than a month yesterday.  Oi needs the investments to catch up to Telefonica Brasil
SA and  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  in the wireless market as customers
cut their landlines. This is the Rio de Janeiro-based company’s
second tower sale announced this year, coming five weeks after
Bava, formerly chief executive officer of Oi shareholder
 Portugal  Telecom SGPS SA, took over the position.  “The company is going to be able to have the resources to
lower debt and go ahead with its investment and dividend payment
plan,” said Alex Pardellas, a Rio de Janeiro-based analyst at
CGD Securities. “Oi has a lot more assets it can still sell.”  Oi  has fallen  54 percent through yesterday in Sao Paulo
trading since it ousted Chief Executive Officer Francisco Valim
on Jan. 22, compared with a 24 percent drop for the Ibovespa
index. It is  trading  at 6.4 times estimated 2013 earnings,
compared with 12 times for Tim and for Telefonica Brasil,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares fell 3.3
percent to 3.55 reais at 12:50 p.m. in Sao Paulo.  Bava’s Arrival  Bava, 47, joined Portugal Telecom in 1999 and was named CEO
in 2008 before being dispatched to  Brazil  to help struggling Oi,
in which the European phone carrier bought a stake in 2011. In
his previous role, Bava helped slow the decline in Portugal
Telecom’s profit margins, and Institutional Investor magazine
named him Portugal’s CEO of the year in 2011.  Oi yesterday announced that it sold GlobeNet, its undersea
cable subsidiary, to Grupo BTG Pactual for 1.75 billion reais
and agreed to transfer the use and commercial rights of 2,113
towers to SBA Communications Corp. for 686.7 million reais.  After closing the first quarter with a net-debt-to-earnings
ratio of 3.05, former Chief Financial Officer Alex Zornig
promised to sell non-core assets in the company’s first-quarter
earnings call with analysts in April to reduce the figure to
three or below. Oi had set that bar to allow payment of 1
billion reais in dividends in August. Zornig left the company
last month.  Soon Enough?  The question is whether Oi’s asset sales have come soon
enough to support its dividend payment plan. While the
transactions have improved Oi’s finances, the company probably
still won’t be able to make its August dividend payment because
they didn’t come before a self-imposed June 30 deadline to
reduce debt, according to Bradesco BBI.  “We view both deals as positive as they seem to have been
made at good valuations,” Bradesco analysts led by Luis Azevedo
said yesterday in a report. “They should help Oi to control its
debt level that is likely to return to under 3.0x after the
influx of cash.”  A separate deal announced in May to transfer the use and
commercial rights of towers to Providence Equity Partners Inc.
was approved on July 2, also missing the close of the second
quarter, regulatory agency Anatel said today.  A press official for Oi declined to comment on the sales.
The company has 15,000 wireless and fixed towers, among other
assets, that it could sell, the Bradesco analysts estimated.  While Oi got much-needed cash for its asset sales, it did
give up infrastructure that can be lucrative. Phone companies
often lease space on towers for competitors to use for their own
equipment, and they can sell excess capacity on submarine
cables.  Tower Discount  SBA purchased Oi’s towers at a 33 percent discount compared
to others it acquired from Telefonica SA’s Brazilian unit in
December, said  Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst with  Wells Fargo &
Co . in  Chicago . That may be because of the falling value of the
real and the location and quality of the towers, she said.  Oi will also need regulatory approval for the tower
transaction, which means it will have to wait for that cash.
Still, the company was able to make both deals faster and for a
better price than Bradesco expected, which the analysts said
bodes well for its future.  “This could help Oi to make steady progress in delivering
better results despite the scenario of high cash consumption,”
they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  