-- Holder Calls for ‘Hard Look’ at State Stand Your Ground Laws
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   B o y d
-- 2013-07-16T21:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/holder-calls-for-hard-look-at-state-stand-your-ground-laws.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder,
in a speech to the nation’s largest civil rights group, said
it’s time to “take a hard look” at state laws that allow
individuals who feel threatened to respond with deadly force.  Addressing an issue that gained prominence with the killing
of Trayvon Martin, the black teenager shot by George Zimmerman
in February 2012, Holder said laws like  Florida ’s Stand Your
Ground statute “senselessly expand the concept of self-defense
and sow dangerous conflict in our neighborhood.”  “These laws try to fix something that was never broken,”
Holder said today at the NAACP’s national convention in  Orlando ,
Florida. “We must stand our ground to ensure that our laws
reduce violence, and take a hard look at laws that contribute to
more violence than they prevent.”  Holder’s remarks marked the first time he has spoken on the
issue. They come just days after Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch
volunteer, was acquitted of state second-degree murder charges
by a jury in Sanford, Florida.  Holder now adds a high-level federal voice to the effort
being pushed by civil rights groups around the country to roll
back state laws that allow for individuals wide latitude to
respond with force when they are threatened in a public place.  Law’s Impact  Florida’s Stand Your Ground law enables individuals to
“meet force with force,” rather than back away. While
Zimmerman’s attorneys didn’t cite the law in their defense
arguments, local officials said it prevented police from
arresting Zimmerman immediately after the shooting because he
said he shot Martin in self-defense.  Holder stopped short of pushing for any specific action,
federal or otherwise, to challenge the laws. More than 30 states
have enacted laws that implement some form of Stand Your Ground
legal protection for those who respond with deadly force to
threatening situations.  Al Sharpton , president of the National Action Network, said
he and other civil rights leaders will gather next week in
Florida for three days to plot a strategy to push back against
the laws, which he said endangered more people than they saved.  “As long as Stand Your Ground is on the books, we will
continue to have the potential for other Trayvon Martins all
across this country,” Sharpton told reporters in front of the
Justice Department.  Petitioning Government  Sharpton and the National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People are among those who have called on Holder’s
department to bring federal civil-rights charges against
Zimmerman. An NAACP petition asking the  Justice Department  to
file charges in the case has reached more than a million
signatures, the group said today.  “The law says you must be able to show that race was a
factor and that bodily harm was done,” Benjamin Jealous, the
organization’s president and chief executive officer, said today
in a statement. “We believe there is enough evidence to satisfy
this standard.”  Jealous, speaking after Holder’s speech to the convention,
said his organization would begin pressuring state legislatures
on Stand Your Ground laws, saying they “license vigilantism”
and need to be repealed.  Current and former Justice Department attorneys in the
civil rights division, the group conducting the investigation,
have said charges may be difficult to bring in the Martin case
due to limitations in federal civil rights statutes, as well its
policies on federal prosecutions following a state trial.  Holder said today that a federal civil rights investigation
into the shooting initiated last year is continuing.  “While that inquiry is ongoing, I can promise that the
 Department of Justice  will consider all available information
before determining what action to take,” Holder said.  Holder’s speech marks the second time in as many days he
has publicly addressed the verdict in the Sanford, Florida
shooting. He again called for it to spark a conversation “about
the complicated and emotionally charged issues that this case
has raised.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ; 
Christopher Boyd in Orlando at 
 christopherboyd@bellsouth.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  