-- Long-Term Obesity Among Young Leads to Increased Heart Risk
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-07-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/long-term-obesity-leads-to-greater-heart-risk-study-finds.html
Young adults who remain obese for
two decades or more double their risk of developing a marker of
 heart disease  in middle age, researchers said.  Every year of obesity raises the risk of developing
coronary artery calcification, a silent predictor of heart
disease with mild to no symptoms, by 2 percent to 4 percent,
according to study published yesterday in the  Journal of the
American Medical Association .  More than one third of U.S. adults ages 20 and older, and
17 percent of children and teenagers, are obese,  according to
the U.S. National Institutes of Health . About $147 billion a
year is spent in the U.S. on obesity-related medical costs,
according to a 2011  report . The study is the first to show that
how long a person is obese can independently contribute to heart
risk, said Jared Reis, the lead author.  “What our study suggests is if we’re measuring only body
mass index and waist circumference we may be underestimating the
health risks of obesity by not measuring the duration,” Reis,
an epidemiologist at the NIH’s National Heart, Lung, and Blood
Institute in Bethesda,  Maryland , said in a telephone interview.  Researchers looked at 3,275 adults ages 18 to 30 years who
weren’t obese at the beginning of the study in the mid-1980s.
Those in the study were given computed tomography scans  to
detect  coronary artery calcification over 25 years. Their
obesity and abdominal obesity also was measured.  Study Data  The researchers found that about 38 percent of those who
were obese for more than 20 years and 39 percent of those who
had abdominal obesity for that time developed coronary artery
calcification compared with 25 percent of those who never became
obese and never developed abdominal obesity.  Those in the study who had obesity and abdominal obesity
over two decades or more also had their coronary artery
calcification progress in their heart.  Obesity is measured using body mass index, or BMI, a
calculation of weight and height. For example, a 5-foot, 4-inch
woman weighing 175 pounds (80 kilograms) has a BMI of 30. BMI of
30 or more is considered obese, while a BMI of 25 to 29.9 is
considered overweight, according to the  National Institutes of
Health .  Reis said researchers will continue following those in the
study to see how many actually develop clinical  heart disease .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  