-- Long-Horned Dinosaur With Big Nose Found in Southern Utah
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-07-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/long-horned-dinosaur-with-big-nose-found-in-southern-utah.html
A 2-ton, 15-foot-long dinosaur with
a big nose and horns that curved over its eyes has been
discovered in  Utah ’s canyon country, an area that’s gaining
recognition as a place of bountiful species evolution.  The dinosaur is called Nasutoceratops titusi, according to
a paper published today in the  Proceedings of the Royal Society
B . It belonged to a family called ceratopsids, which includes
the Triceratops, and is at least the third new species of big-bodied horned dinosaurs found in the area in the past two years.
It lived during the Late Cretaceous, a period 100 million to 66
million years ago.  Like others discovered in Utah’s  Grand Staircase-Escalante
National Monument , Nasutoceratops lived on an island continent,
called Laramidia, when  North America  was divided by an interior
sea starting on the eastern side of the Rockies. Unlike many of
its family members, the  frill  on the skull didn’t feature hooks
or spikes. The finding suggests dinosaurs in the south were
evolving differently than those in the north.  “This is an independent branch, previously unknown,
inhabiting the southern part of Laramidia for millions of
years,”  Scott Sampson , the lead study author and vice president
of research and collections at the Denver Museum of Science and
Nature, said in a telephone interview. “It underlines the fact
that we’ll probably discover a number of new species that belong
to its group.”  The area where Nasutoceratops lived was warm and swampy,
and about 60 miles from the sea. Two other horned dinosaurs, the
Utahceratops and the Kosmoceratops, both of which are more
closely related to Triceratops, were found nearby, according to
papers published in 2010 by the same group of researchers.  Fast Evolution  The diversity of the horned dinosaurs suggests that they
were evolving quickly, probably due to pressure from sexual
selection, and the frills served to attract mates, like
peacocks’ tails, Sampson said.  “In other horned dinosaurs, if you take off the top of the
skull, you can’t tell them apart. This is different,” Sampson
said of Nasutoceratops. “It has an enlarged nose up front, a
shorter face and its jaw is dropped. That points to the fact it
was evolving on its own.”  While all the ceratopsids had enlarged noses, the new
dinosaur’s was even larger than any of its relatives. It wasn’t
clear what purpose the oversized snout served because the smell
receptors are generally further back in the head, the
researchers said. The nose may have controlled the temperature
of the brain or had structures for making noise or showing off.  The team of paleontologists found bones from the spine,
neck, shoulders, two front legs and a skull of the new dinosaur
at the national monument in southern Utah, a site that opened
only 10 years ago. The area remained unexplored for years
because it’s difficult to reach and was the last major area in
the lower 48 states to be formally mapped by cartographers.
Helicopters are required to carry dinosaur bones out.  The first specimen of Nasutoceratops was discovered in 2006
by Eric Lund, who was a graduate student at the University of
Utah. More bones from the dinosaurs have been found since then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  