-- Moody’s Sees Potential for Irish Ratings Outlook to Stabilize
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-07-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/moody-s-says-potential-for-irish-ratings-outlook-to-stabilize.html
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said
there is potential for Ireland’s ratings outlook to stabilize by
the end of next year should the euro area’s economy recover.  “We expect that the euro-area economy will begin to grow
again in the second half of the year, if it hasn’t already
started -- that will help Ireland,” Kristin Lindow, lead credit
analyst on Ireland at the ratings company said in a July 15
phone interview from  New York . “We’d certainly see the
potential, if all else goes well, for that outlook to
stabilize.”  Moody’s is the only large rating company that has Ireland
on a non-investment rating, which prevents some funds from
buying the nation’s debt.  Standard & Poor’s  raised its outlook
on Ireland’s investment-grade sovereign rating on July 12,
saying the government may exceed its targets for debt reduction
as the economy heals.  “Moody’s stubbornness in holding on to its sub-investment
grade rating remains an unhelpful overhang on the sovereign and
the banks,” Philip O’Sullivan, an economist at  Investec Plc (INVP)  in
Dublin said after S&P’s outlook revision. “Investec continue to
view a Moody’s upgrade as a matter of when, not if.”  Irish bonds returned 6.9 percent this year through July 15,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Spanish securities
returned 5.5 percent and  Italy ’s gained 2.3 percent, while
German bonds handed investors a loss of 0.9 percent, the indexes
show. The yield on Irish five-year debt was at 2.93 percent
yesterday, down from more than 17 percent in July 2011, when
Moody’s cut the nation to non-investment grade.  Economy Expanding  Ireland’s economy is still growing and an improvement in
domestic demand together with a potential pickup in the external
environment may help it boost growth through to 2015, according
to Lindow.  Lindow pointed to an expansion in the first quarter in
gross national product, which excludes revenue from foreign-owned companies, to gauge performance. That measure more
properly reflects activity and income that accrues to Irish
residents, she said.  GNP expanded by 2.9 percent in the first quarter of the
year from the previous three months. In terms of  gross domestic
product  the economy slipped back into recession in the period.  “If the growth dynamic can be reinvigorated -- not
necessarily to Celtic Tiger levels of growth but certainly
faster growth than its Euro-zone partners -- then we would
expect debt to be coming down at a steady pace,” Moody’s Lindow
said.  Ireland has managed the euro-debt crisis better than some
nations and “has been able to maintain this high institutional
strength and that is a very important factor ultimately for its
ability to regain an investment-grade rating,” she said.  Irish Growth  Moody’s isn’t “‘counting’’ on Ireland getting a
retroactive recap for its surviving banks from  Europe ’s rescue
fund, the European Stability Mechanism, Lindow said.  ‘‘There are some potential risks posed to any eventual
recapitalization, with creditor nations appearing concerned that
Irish bankers may have been too confident about being bailed
out,’’ she said. ‘‘That hasn’t resonated well with the creditor
nations.’’  Tapes of conversations between the executives of the failed
 Anglo Irish Bank  Corp. indicated the bank sought to get the
Irish central bank ‘‘to write a big check’’ to ‘‘pull them in’’
to support their money.  Bankers recorded on the tapes have denied that they tried
to mislead the central bank, which is examining transcripts to
see if any breaches of regulatory requirements occurred. Lindow
didn’t specify Anglo Irish Bank and declined to elaborate.  ESM Refund  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  wants the ESM to
refund as much as 30 billion euros ($39 billion) the state spent
saving surviving banks after the economy crashed in 2008.
European leaders in June capped to 60 billion euros the funds
available for direct bank aid from the 500 billion-euro fund.  Portugal ’s political crisis, which saw the resignation of
its finance minister this month and a surge in bond yields,
hasn’t had a large impact on Ireland’s debt. The euro crisis’s
‘‘collective impact” on stressed economies is waning and
“differentiation among credits is very important,” Lindow
said.  “We are looking to see whether there really is a chance
for Ireland to fully decouple from that crisis mode and move
back to more normal circumstances,” she said. “There is no
specific time frame so we are not waiting for the budget, we are
not waiting for them the come out of the program. At this stage
it has become a very subjective analysis about the potential
impact of ongoing euro stress.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  