-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Crude Rises as Stockpiles Seen Dropping
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-07-16T00:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/top-oil-market-news-wti-crude-rises-as-stockpiles-seen-dropping.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Crude Supply Drops to Five-Month Low in Survey: Energy Markets  U.S. crude supplies probably fell to the lowest level in
more than five months as gasoline demand rose in the peak season
for driving, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Refiners and Ethanol Companies Spar Over U.S. Biofuels Mandate  The oil industry and ethanol companies are arguing about
whether the U.S. should maintain consumption targets as
lawmakers prepare to hold hearings on its impact on gasoline
prices.  Ethanol Strengthens Against Gasoline as Supplies at Seasonal Low  Ethanol strengthened against gasoline as stockpiles of the
biofuel were at a seasonal low and Renewable Identification
Numbers, or RINs, rose to a record.  U.S. House Committee to Hold Hearing on Ethanol Law Next Week  The U.S. House of Representatives’ Energy and Commcerce
Committee plans to hold hearings on the Renewable Fuels
Standard, the law that calls for escalating amounts of ethanol
in gasoline, on July 23 and July 24.  PBF Delaware Plant Crude Rail Plan Faces Environmental Challenge  PBF Energy Inc.’s growing rail operation at its Delaware
City refinery will face a challenge from environmentalists at a
state regulatory hearing tomorrow.  U.K. Regulator Weighs Criminal Probe Into Oil-Price Fixing (2)  A second U.K. agency said it’s considering a criminal probe
into oil-price manipulation as European Union officials conduct
a civil investigation into industry benchmarks.  Bakken Price Weakens After North Dakota Output Climbs to Record  Bakken crude on the  spot market  weakened against West Texas
Intermediate as North Dakota production from the state’s portion
of the field increased to a record in May.  Trafigura Seeks Forties; Vitol Sells Urals at Three-Year High  Trafigura Beheer BV failed to buy North Sea Forties crude
at the highest price in more than five months. Vitol Group sold
Russian Urals in northwest Europe at the biggest differential to
Dated Brent in at least three years.  OPEC  Goldman Sees Risk of Oil Prices Gaining Amid OPEC Supply Losses  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said price risks for Brent crude
in the second half of the year have changed “to the upside”
amid production losses in some OPEC nations and political
threats to supply.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Retail Gasoline in U.S. Rose Most in 5 Months After Crude Surge  The average price of gasoline at U.S. filling stations rose
the most since February as the cost of crude surged above $100 a
barrel for the first time since May 2012.  Western Canadian Select Weakens as Supply Issues Narrow Gap  Western Canadian Select heavy crude weakened on the spot
market, narrowing the gap between the August and September
contracts.  Gasoline Prices in U.S. Rose to $3.639/Gallon, EIA Reports  Average price rose 14.7 cents from July 8, according to
U.S. Energy Information Administration’s weekly Gasoline and
Diesel Fuel Update report.  Phillips 66 Borger Refinery Reports Process Upset  Borger refinery in Texas not performing planned
maintenance,  Rich Johnson , Co. spokesman, said by e-mail.  Los Angeles Gasoline Climbs as Valero Refinery Restarts Units  Spot gasoline in Los Angeles gained against futures for the
first time in four days as Valero Energy Corp.’s Wilmington
refinery recovered from a compressor trip and Chevron Corp.’s El
Segundo plant reported flaring.  PDVSA Isla Refinery to Resume Operations Soon, Official Says  Isla Refinery Financial Coordinator for Major Projects
Lucas Beaujon comments on PDVSA refinery in e-mailed response to
questions today.  Gasoline Falls on Speculation Refineries Operated at 92% Rate  Gasoline fell for the first time in five days with supplies
on the Gulf Coast at a record high for this time of year and on
speculation that refineries operated at more than 90 percent of
capacity for a fourth week.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Gasoline Tankers Beating Crude for First Time on Record: Freight  Tankers hauling gasoline and diesel are poised to earn more
than crude carriers six times their size for the first time on
record as the U.S. exports the most refined-oil products in at
least two decades.  Fuel Oil Shipments to Asia Remain at 3.8 Million Tons in August  Fuel oil shipments scheduled from western countries to Asia
in August were little changed from last week at 3.8 million
metric tons, shipping data shows.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Fall 3.3 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
 Japan  fell 3.3 percent to 6.47 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  China Growth Slows to 7.5% as 2013 Target Under Threat: Economy  China’s economy  slowed for a second quarter as growth in
factory output and fixed-asset investment weakened, adding to
risks that the government will miss its expansion target as
Premier Li Keqiang reins in a credit boom.  Stocks Gain on Earnings Optimism; Treasuries Rise on Retail Data  U.S. stocks rose as better-than- forecast results at
Citigroup Inc. fueled optimism in the earnings season. Ten-year
Treasuries climbed for the fifth time in six sessions following
slower-than-forecast growth in retail sales, while commodity
indexes were little changed.  To Rebuild Nuclear Power Japan Must Raze ‘Nuclear Village’: View  The governing coalition led by Japan’s pro-nuclear  Liberal
Democratic Party  is predicted to win a majority in the July 21
Upper House elections.  Sea Levels Increase Two Meters for Each Degree of Global Warming  Sea levels may rise by more than 2 meters (6.6 feet) for
each degree Celsius of global warming the planet experiences
over the next 2,000 years, according to a study by researchers
in five nations.  Shale Skeptics Take On Pickens as Gas Fuels Policies: Energy  Where others see a U.S. energy revolution of cheap and
abundant fuel, David Hughes sees a short-term bubble that will
bring higher economic and environmental costs.  Forest Oil to Sell Texas Fields That May Fetch $1 Billion (1)  Forest Oil Corp. intends to sell oil and natural gas fields
in the Texas Panhandle that may fetch as much as $1 billion,
more than the company’s market value.  Argentina Offers Incentives for $1 Billion Energy Projects  Argentina will offer energy companies incentives if they
invest $1 billion or more over a five-year period as the country
struggles to lift output and pare fuel imports a year after
seizing YPF SA.  Musk to Release ‘Hyperloop’ Tube Transport Plans Next Month (1)  Elon Musk, the billionaire chairman and chief executive
officer of electric-vehicle maker Tesla Motors Inc., will
release designs next month for a system he has said would be
capable of whisking people from Los Angeles to San Francisco via
a tube.  China Nuclear Protest and Retreat Shows Growing People Power (1)  Protests in a southern Chinese city last week that forced
local authorities to abandon plans for a uranium-processing
facility highlight the growing willingness of ordinary people to
challenge the state on environmental issues.  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Equity Futures Climb After U.S. Gains as Yen Holds Decline  Asian equity futures rose, following U.S. stocks higher
after Citigroup Inc.’s better-than-forecast results bolstered
optimism for the earnings season. The yen held at a one-week low
to the dollar, while crude oil rose a third day.  Yen Drops Versus Dollar on Central-Bank Divergence; Aussie Rises  The yen weakened for a second day against the dollar amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will reduce monetary stimulus
while the  Bank of Japan  maintains its bond-buying program, which
tends to debase the currency.  Aussie’s Commodity Correlation Breakdown Flags Gains: Currencies  The link between Australia’s dollar and commodities is the
weakest since 2008, a sign to bulls that the currency has room
to catch up with recent gains in raw material prices after
falling 12 percent since April.  U.S. Stocks Rise as Citigroup Earnings Overshadow Retail Sales  U.S. stocks rose, giving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
its longest winning streak since January, as better-than-estimated earnings at Citigroup Inc. overshadowed a
disappointing retail sales report.  Emerging-Market Stocks Advance to One-Month High on Chinese GDP  Emerging-market stocks rose to the highest level in almost
a month as China’s economic growth met forecasts and the nation
boosted foreign investor access to its markets. Turkey’s lira
climbed as the central bank said it may raise  interest rates 
this month to bolster the currency.  Hedge Funds  Bought Gold in Biggest Rally Since 2011: Commodities  Hedge funds raised bets on higher  gold prices  for a second
week as comments from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
damped expectations for an imminent tapering of stimulus.
Futures rose the most since 2011.  Copper Falls as Sagging Chinese Economy Fuels Demand Concern  Copper futures fell for the second straight session on
concern that demand will ebb after economic growth slowed for
the ninth time in 10 quarters in China, the world’s biggest user
of industrial metals.  Egypt ’s Brotherhood Holds Protests as U.S. Envoy Urges Talks (1)  Supporters of ousted Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi
massed at new rallies demanding his reinstatement, ratcheting up
the pressure on the military that overthrew him.  Rajoy Says Corruption Allegations Won’t Force Him Out of Office  Mariano Rajoy  pledged to complete his term as Spain’s
government leader hours after his party’s former treasurer
testified that the premier accepted cash payments from 2008 to
2010.  SPORTS  Ex-Anschutz Boss Leiweke Maps Maple Leafs’ Victory Parade (1)  Tim Leiweke , the new chief of Maple Leaf Sports &
Entertainment Ltd., is so confident the  Toronto Maple Leafs  will
soon end a 46-year Stanley Cup drought that he’s mapped a
victory-parade route for the hockey team.  Liverpool Aims to Convince Suarez to Stay as Arsenal Makes Offer  Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez  can expect to retain the
support of the team’s fans even though he’s agitating for a move
a way from the Premier League soccer club, Managing Director  Ian
Ayre  said.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)      106.41  +0.09  +0.1  Nymex     Aug.
 Brent Crude  ($/Bbl)    109.09  +0.28  +0.3    Ice     Aug.
Gasoil ($/Ton)         917.00  +0.25  +0.0    Ice    Sept.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       311.40  +1.11  +0.4  Nymex     Aug.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.68  +0.01  +0.2  Nymex     Aug.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    108.65  -0.09  -0.1    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            303.15  +0.54  +0.2  Nymex     Aug.
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            83.04  +0.1
Gold ($/Oz)          1,283.50  +0.5
MSCI World Index     1,500.94  +0.2
Prices as of 11 p.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  