-- Morgan Stanley Deserves Repayment From Skowron, Court Rules
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-07-16T16:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/morgan-stanley-deserves-repayment-from-skowron-court-rules-1-.html
Morgan Stanley is entitled to
$10.2 million in restitution from Joseph “Chip” Skowron, a
former hedge fund manager serving a five-year prison term for
 insider trading , a U.S. appeals court ruled.  Skowron, 44, asked the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Manhattan 
to overturn a restitution order imposed by a judge after he
pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit  securities fraud  and
obstruct justice. U.S. District Judge Denise Cote said Skowron
owed the New York-based bank 20 percent of his salary from 2007
to 2010, or $6.4 million, and $3.8 million in legal fees.  The appellate court today upheld Cote’s ruling that the
compensation is bank property because Skowron “manifestly
failed to provide the honest services for which Morgan Stanley
compensated him.” Skowron was a manager at  Morgan Stanley’s (MS) 
FrontPoint Partners LLC until he was charged in April 2011 with
using inside information to avoid $30 million in losses.  “Skowron deprived Morgan Stanley of his honest services by
participating in a bribery scheme to obtain inside information”
about the progression of medical clinical trials, a three-judge
appellate panel wrote in the opinion.  The bank also deserves payment of its legal fees stemming
from a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation,
according to the panel. Morgan Stanley paid $33 million to
settle with the SEC over Skowron’s illegal trades.  Trading Losses  Skowron in August 2011 admitted helping FrontPoint avoid
more than $30 million in trading losses on Human Genome Sciences
Inc., a Rockville, Maryland, pharmaceutical firm that was
acquired by  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   Skowron admitted he got secret tips from a French
physician, Yves Benhamou, who helped oversee a clinical trial of
a Human Genome hepatitis drug, Albuferon. After Benhamou told
Skowron about disappointing results in the drug trial, Skowron
sold Human Genome shares in FrontPoint’s funds.  Skowron’s attorney Joshua H. Epstein didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the ruling. Skowron, a Harvard-trained doctor who quit medicine for  Wall Street , is serving his
term at McKean Federal Correction Institution in northwestern
 Pennsylvania , according to the  Federal Bureau  of Prisons
website.  “We are very, very pleased with the outcome,” Morgan
Stanley’s attorney  Kevin Marino  said in a telephone interview.  At his sentencing in 2011, Cote ordered Skowron to forfeit
$5 million. She also required him to pay restitution of
$5.9 million to five investors that bought FrontPoint’s Human
Genome stock in block trades just before the clinical-trial
results were announced in January 2008. Deutsche Bank AG and
Galleon Group LLC were among the funds.  Net Worth  When he was sentenced, Skowron had a net worth of
$22 million.  Cote refused to require Skowron to repay Morgan Stanley the
$33 million that it paid to settle with the SEC, or the
80 percent of his salary not covered by her restitution order.  On Oct. 31, Morgan Stanley sued Skowron, seeking the
$33 million Cote said it was not entitled to, as well as the
entire $32 million it paid Skowron from 2007 to 2010.  The bank called Skowron a “faithless servant” who lied
repeatedly to continue being paid by the bank and to avoid the
blow to his reputation that a loss on HGSI would have caused.  The District Court case is U.S. v. Skowron, 1:11-cr-00699,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York Manhattan).
The appeal is U.S. v. Skowron, 12-1284, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan). Morgan Stanley’s suit is
Morgan Stanley v. Skowron, 12-cv-8016, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in federal court in Newark,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in Manhattan
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 