-- Torys, Sullivan & Cromwell, Wachtell: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-16T16:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/torys-sullivan-cromwell-wachtell-business-of-law.html
Torys LLP and Borden Ladner Gervais
LLP advised  Loblaw Cos. (L) , which agreed to buy  Shoppers Drug Mart
Corp. (SC)  for C$12.4 billion ($11.9 billion) in the biggest takeover
of a Canadian retailer. Osler Hoskin & Harcourt LLP advised
Shoppers.  Torys’ team included partners Peter Jewett and Cornell
Wright, mergers and acquisitions; Tom Zverina and Adam Delean,
lending; James C. Tory and  Andrew Gray , litigation; Mitch
Frazer, pension and employment; Jay Holsten and Omar Wakil,
competition; Conor McCourt, intellectual property; and John
Unger, tax.  The Osler deal team included partners Clay Horner, Douglas
Bryce, Emmanuel Pressman, Donald Gilchrist, corporate; Peter Glossop and Shuli Rodal, regulatory; and Firoz Ahmed and Dov
Begun, tax.  Borden Ladner’s deal team includes corporate and commercial
partner Robert S. Russell.  Loblaw, the country’s largest supermarket company by market
value, will pay C$61.54 a share in cash and stock for the
leading Canadian drugstore chain, the companies said yesterday
in a statement. That represents a 27 percent premium to Toronto-based Shoppers Drug Mart’s closing price last week.  The deal -- the largest between two Canadian companies
since Suncor Energy Inc. bought Petro-Canada in 2009 --
accelerates consolidation in a retail industry that faces
increased competition as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and  Target Corp. (TGT) 
expand in the country. A month ago, Loblaw’s rival Sobeys Inc.
agreed to buy Safeway Inc.’s Canadian stores for C$5.8 billion.  Annual revenue  of the combined company would have been more
than C$42 billion in 2012, according to the statement. Loblaw,
based in Brampton, Ontario, and Shoppers Drug Mart together had
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of about C$3 billion last year.  For more, click here.  Sullivan & Cromwell , Wachtell on AT&T $1.2 Billion Leap Deal  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP  is advising  AT&T Inc. (T) , which
agreed to buy  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP)  for $1.2 billion
to gain more airwaves and a larger piece of the pay-as-you-go
market. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is advising Leap.  The S&C team is led by M&A partners Joe Frumkin in  New York 
and Eric Krautheimer in  Los Angeles .  Wachtell Lipton ’s team is led by corporate partners Edward
D. Herlihy and David E. Shapiro and consists of partners Gordon
S. Moodie, corporate; Jeannemarie O’Brien, executive
compensation and benefits; Joshua A. Feltman, restructuring and
finance; and Joshua M. Holmes, tax.  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP’s Howard Chatzinoff is advising
Lazard as financial adviser to Leap Wireless  AT&T, the second-biggest U.S. wireless carrier, plans to
buy Leap for $15 a share in cash, offering a premium of 88
percent over the target’s closing stock price. The transaction
gives AT&T more pay-as-you-go customers, along with airwaves to
improve its network.  AT&T’s Leap acquisition follows a failed attempt to buy T-Mobile for $39 billion in 2011. AT&T, based in Dallas, walked
away from that deal after facing opposition from regulators, who
were concerned about losing one of the industry’s top four.  Buying Leap will give AT&T about 5 million customers, more
airwaves and a larger piece of the pay-as-you-go market. As part
of the deal, Leap shareholders will get the right to proceeds
from the sale of Leap’s 700-megahertz spectrum in Chicago, which
was bought for $204 million last year.  For more, click here.  Moves  Bingham Adds Insurance Tax Lawyer Susan Seabrook  Bingham McCutchen LLP expanded its tax group with the
addition of Susan E. Seabrook as a partner in the Washington
office. She was previously at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom LLP.  Seabrook focuses on tax controversy relating to insurance
companies, financial institutions, and financial and insurance
products. She also advises on tax issues unique to insurance
company M&A transactions, reinsurance matters and product
issues, the firm said.  “Susan is a talented lawyer who brings exceptional
experience and keen perspective to insurance-specific tax
matters,” said John Magee, leader of Bingham’s Tax Group,
noting that the  Internal Revenue Service  and the U.S. Treasury
Department are focusing more on the  insurance industry  in light
of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law and increased
regulation. “Susan’s arrival will further enable us to
proactively identify tax controversy issues for clients. She’s a
terrific complement to our robust team.”  Bingham has approximately 1,000 lawyers in 14 offices in
the U.S., Europe and  Asia .  Orrick Adds Capital Markets Partner in San Francisco  Andrew D. Thorpe, a former Securities and Exchange
Commission Special Counsel and most recently a partner at
 Morrison & Foerster LLP , joined Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe
LLP as a partner in the capital markets group, in  San Francisco .  “We are delighted to add Andy to our team,” said Mitch Zuklie, Orrick’s chairman. “Andy brings extensive commercial
experience and valuable insight from his time at the SEC, for
our emerging company and public company clients, as well as our
underwriter relationships.”  Thorpe’s practice focuses on securities regulation, public
offerings, mergers and acquisitions and corporate governance
matters. Thorpe has worked on more than 30 public offerings,
serving as company or underwriter’s counsel, in addition to
reviewing approximately 20 additional offerings while he was at
the SEC. He spent almost six years at the SEC, including in the
Office of Rulemaking within the Division of Corporation Finance.  Orrick has lawyers 25 offices in Asia, Europe and the U.S.  Health-Care Attorney Joins McCarter & English in Newark  McCarter & English LLP added Todd C. Brower as partner in
the firm’s health care practice in  Newark , New Jersey. He was
previously at Brach Eichler LLC.  Brower has more than 25 years of experience counseling
health-care industry clients on regulatory and transactional
matters, the firm said. He advises on corporate compliance and
HIPAA issues, as well as, acquisitions, affiliations, joint
venturing, licensing and reimbursement. He has also handled
contractual and disciplinary matters, as well as group practice
formations.  “In today’s rapidly changing health-care landscape, Brower
will be instrumental in helping various institutions, physicians
and other health-care providers and companies navigate complex
industry challenges,” Scott Kobler, partner with McCarter’s
health care practice said in a statement. “He will be an
exceptional asset to our team, as we continue to expand the
practice.”  McCarter & English has more than 400 attorneys at seven
U.S. offices.  International Arbitration Partner Joins Vinson & Elkins  Vinson & Elkins LLP announced that arbitration partner
George Burn joined the firm in London from Dentons LLP. Before
his previous firm’s merger, Burn served as the head of Salans’s
U.K.  international arbitration  practice.  Burn has experience in commercial and treaty arbitration
work, including disputes relating to the energy, construction,
mining, financial sectors and other industries. He has appeared
in proceedings brought under the  London Court of International
Arbitration  and International Centre for Settlement of
Investment Disputes, among others and sits as an arbitrator.  “George’s broad experience and reputation for quality and
innovation are well known in the market, and he comes from one
of the premier arbitration practices in Europe,” the head of
V&E’s international dispute resolution practice James Loftis,
said in a statement.  Vinson & Elkins has more than 675 lawyers at 16 offices in
the U.S., London, the Middle East and Asia.  Litigation  Tourre Lawyers Urged to Cut Down on Jargon for Jurors’ Sake  The judge hearing the Fabrice Tourre  securities-fraud  trial
urged lawyers to “have a heart” and not assume jurors speak
Wall Street.  Lawyers for Tourre and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission yesterday selected a jury of five women and four men
in  Manhattan  federal court. The jurors include an Episcopal
priest, a dean at a free online academy and the principal of a
New York public school.  Tourre, who was given the nickname “Fabulous Fab” by a
friend, faces fraud claims over his role in Abacus 2007-AC1, a
synthetic collateralized debt obligation tied to home mortgages.
The trial begins three years to the day after the SEC announced
 Goldman Sachs (GS) ’s agreement to pay a then-record $550 million
settlement and admit mistakes in marketing Abacus.  “A synthetic CDO is gibberish unless you explain it,”
U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest told the lawyers for both
sides before yesterday morning’s start of the SEC case against
the former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. vice president. “Mere
mortals don’t know what a trading desk is.”  Forrest asked questions of the potential jurors to screen
them for the case.  The nine-member panel also includes a retired special
education teacher, a production manager at the International
Aids Vaccine Initiative, a graphic designer, a recent medical
school graduate studying for her licensing exams, a technical
director for an animation company and a man who said he works in
advertising.  Forrest told the jurors the trial may last three weeks.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Refco Lawyer Gets Year for Aiding $2.4 Billion Fraud  Joseph Collins , Refco Inc.’s former outside lawyer, was
sentenced to a year and a day in prison for helping ex-Chief
Executive Officer Phillip Bennett and other company officials
defraud investors of $2.4 billion.  U.S. District Judge Loretta Preska in Manhattan yesterday
also imposed two years of supervised release on Collins, who was
convicted at a retrial last year after his 2009 fraud conviction
was reversed. In passing sentence, Preska cited the defendant’s
history of charitable works.  “There’s no doubt that, but for this matter, Mr. Collins
is a certifiable saint,” she said “In this case, a lengthy
prison sentence is not necessary.” She also allowed Collins to
remain free pending appeal.  Once the biggest independent U.S. futures trader, Refco
collapsed in 2005 two months after raising $670 million in an
initial public offering. Refco Inc., as it was known after the
IPO, filed one of the biggest bankruptcies in U.S. history after
disclosing that it had transferred more than $1 billion in
losses to a firm owned by Bennett.  Collins was found guilty in November of one count of
conspiracy and two counts each of securities fraud,  wire fraud 
and filing false statements with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. He was acquitted of bank fraud and two
wire-fraud charges.  Formerly of the Chicago law firm Mayer Brown LLP, Collins
claimed he had no knowledge of the fraud, which he said was set
in motion and concealed by Bennett and senior executives Robert Trosten and Santo Maggio. All three men pleaded guilty. Trosten
and Maggio agreed to cooperate in the case against Collins.
Maggio died last year.  Bennett is serving a 16-year prison sentence while his
former partner, Tone Grant, is serving 10 years. Preska said
that in her view the other men were “Refco insiders” while
Collins hadn’t been directly involved in orchestrating the
scheme or profited from it in any way.  The case is U.S. v. Collins, 07-cr-01170, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 