-- Hospitals Withdraw From Key Obamacare Cost Savings Plan
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-07-16T19:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/hospitals-withdraw-from-key-obamacare-cost-savings-plan.html
Nine of 32 hospitals and health
systems dropped out of a U.S. pilot program created through the
Affordable Care Act to reduce medical costs by moving away from
a traditional fee-for-services model, the government said.  The costs of caring for those enrolled in the “Pioneer”
program increased 0.3 percent in 2012, less than half the rate
of other beneficiaries in Medicare, the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services said today in a  statement . Medicare, the U.S.
health plan for the elderly and disabled, saved $33 million for
the 669,000 beneficiaries in the pilot group, the agency said.  The program, begun in January 2012, created accountable
care organizations, or ACOs, designed to save money by more
efficiently managing care for patients with chronic diseases
like diabetes or dementia. The health providers are paid a fixed
monthly stipend for patients rather than receiving fees for
medical services.  “We remain firmly committed to the concept of improving
health care and containing cost growth via the population health
model that drives all ACOs,” said  David Spahlinger , executive
director of the University of Michigan Medical School’s  Faculty
Group Practice , one of the nine providers dropping from Pioneer.  The nine medical providers had told Medicare officials they
might leave the three-year program early, Bloomberg News
reported last month. Seven of the health providers, including
the University of Michigan practice, said they will apply for a
lower-risk Medicare cost-savings plan. None produced savings in
the Pioneer plan.  Projected Savings  The experimental programs were set up by the 2010
Affordable Care Act to save Medicare as much as $940 million
through 2015. Hospitals and other participating groups were
expected to receive as much as $1.9 billion in bonus payments.  Thirteen of the 32 Pioneers produced shared savings with
the agency in 2012 while two had shared losses of about $4
million, CMS said in its statement.  The Pioneer system is “extremely ambitious, even for the
most advanced health systems” from a provider point of view,
said Blair Childs, a spokesman for  Premier Healthcare Alliance ,
a 2,800-hospital group based in  Charlotte , North Carolina, that
operates the largest and oldest accountable care organization.  “Dropping from the Pioneer program does not mean that
providers are abandoning their investments or wavering on the
concept of ACOs,” Childs said in a statement. Seven of the
remaining Pioneer health systems have hospitals that are members
of the Premier alliance.  All 32 providers performed better than published rates in
fee-for-service Medicare for all 15 clinical quality measures
for which comparable data are available, the agency said.
Twenty-five of the 32 programs produced lower readmission rates
than the benchmark rate for other Medicare providers.  “These results show that successful Pioneer ACOs have
reduced costs for Medicare and improved the quality of care for
their patients,” said CMS Administrator Marilyn Tavenner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  