-- Tourre Jury Endures CDO Testimony From A to Zzzzz
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-07-17T00:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/tourre-jury-endures-cdo-testimony-from-a-to-zzzzz.html
Throughout yesterday morning, as the
thermometer neared 100 degrees outside the  Manhattan  federal
courthouse where former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  vice president
Fabrice Tourre is being tried for  securities fraud , jurors could
be seen struggling to pay attention to the complex testimony.  Some rubbed their eyes. One’s eyes were closed, head
propped on a hand, while others looked at the clock as an expert
testified about CDOs, synthetic CDOs and CDOs of CDOs.  “I think the jury was lost,” John “Sean” Coffey, a
lawyer for Tourre, 34, said during a break in the testimony of a
professor called to the stand to describe collateralized debt
obligations, which are at the heart of the case. “It is
critical that they understand how a synthetic CDO works.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued Tourre and
Goldman Sachs in 2010 over Abacus 2007-AC1, a synthetic CDO
investors used to bet on mortgage bonds. They lost more than
$1 billion on the wager. New York-based Goldman Sachs paid a
then-record $550 million to settle the case.  CDOs are debt securities backed -- or collateralized -- by
assets including pools of mortgage bonds and other asset-backed
securities. A synthetic CDO, by contrast, doesn’t directly hold
mortgage securities. It’s linked to the performance of such
assets and allows investors to use credit default swaps to bet
on their performance.  Paulson Role  The SEC claims Tourre concealed the role of Paulson & Co.,
the hedge fund run by billionaire  John Paulson , in selecting the
assets in the Abacus portfolio -- assets that Paulson was
betting would fail.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest asked why Coffey’s
cross-examination of Dwight M. Jaffee, a professor of banking,
finance and real estate at the  University of California ,
Berkeley’s Haas School of Business called as an expert by the
SEC, threatened to take longer than the hour to 90 minutes he
had originally estimated.  Coffey said the jury didn’t seem to understand Jaffee’s
explanation of how CDOs work.  “A good 20 minutes of that was necessary for all of us,”
Coffey told Forrest, referring to his extended questioning.
Jaffee, the first witness called in the trial, began testifying
July 15.  Short Investors  Coffey and  Pamela Chepiga , Tourre’s lead lawyers in the
trial, have argued that a synthetic CDO like Abacus requires
short investors to match up with all the long positions that are
sold. As a result, they contend, it was natural for Paulson to
have input into the portfolio of residential mortgage-backed
securities underlying Abacus.  Before Jaffee’s cross-examination, an SEC lawyer used a
PowerPoint presentation to help him explain a CDO as a sinking
cargo ship, with the equity and mezzanine investors the first to
take on water. Not long after the super-senior deck flooded, the
animated ship was shown sinking to the bottom.  Later, Forrest tried to rephrase one of Coffey’s questions
to Jaffee about a failing CDO, apparently using the wrong
aquatic metaphor.  “You’re talking waterfalls, I’m talking flood,” Coffey
said.  After Jaffee left the stand, the SEC called Sihan Shu, a
Paulson managing director who testified that the firm in 2006
and 2007 was in search of investment vehicles that would allow
it to make short investments on U.S. mortgages.  ‘Bearish View’  “We wanted to express a bearish view on the U.S. housing
market via subprime mortgage-backed securities,” Shu said.  Paolo Pellegrini, a former top Paulson executive, testified
after Shu. Pellegrini, questioned yesterday by SEC lawyer
Matthew Martens, said Paulson wanted to short the subprime
mortgage market and talked to several banks in addition to
Goldman Sachs in search of appropriate vehicles.  During his testimony, Pellegrini frequently picked quarrels
with Martens’s questions, prompting the lawyer to refer to him
as a “hostile witness” to the judge when the witness and jury
were outside the courtroom.  “You’re asking things in a very imprecise fashion, so I’m
having trouble answering your questions,” Pellegrini said at
one point. Later, after the judge mistakenly referred, in front
of the jury, to questioning by Pellegrini’s counsel, Coffey
sought to make their relationship clear.  Never Seen  “I’ve never set eyes on Mr. Pellegrini before,” Coffey
told Forrest. “I certainly don’t want the jury to think we have
anything to do with him.”  Pellegrini’s testimony showed that the jurors weren’t alone
in grappling with some details of the case.  “What does ‘CDO’ stand for?” Martens asked Pellegrini,
who wasn’t in the courtroom for Jaffee’s testimony, within
minutes after he took the stand.  “I’m not sure,” Pellegrini said. “It may stand for
collateralized debt obligation, but I’m not sure.”  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  