-- Toyota Sells Bonds as Yields Hold Near One-Month Low
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   V e r i t y   R a t c l i f f e
-- 2013-07-17T05:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/toyota-selling-bonds-in-euros-as-debt-risk-rises-from-month-low.html
(Corrects name of issuing unit in first paragraph.)  Toyota Motor Credit Corp., a unit of
the  world’s largest carmarker,  sold bonds in euros as corporate
yields in  Europe  hold near a four-week low. Company credit risk
in the region rose.  TMCC priced 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) of seven-year
notes to yield 40 basis points more than the benchmark mid-swap
rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average yield
investors demand to hold investment-grade company bonds in euros
rose 1.7 basis points to 2.11 percent yesterday, up from the
lowest level since June 19, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  Investors worldwide are awaiting Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s testimony to Congress tomorrow when he’s
expected to give more clarity on the central bank’s stimulus
plans. The cost of insuring corporate bonds in Europe rose, with
the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of contracts on 125 investment-grade companies increasing 1 basis point to 106 basis points
today.  “The market is still holding its breath,” said Geraud Charpin, a  fund manager  at Bluebay Asset Management Ltd. in
 London  which oversees $44 billion. “A lot has happened and
every time the market wants to settle back, you get another
headline.”  Bernanke eased a rout last week in bond markets triggered
after he outlined last month an eventual end of its asset-purchase program. Yields on European corporate debt surged as
much as 34 basis points after he said the central bank plans to
begin scaling back stimulus measures later this year. They pared
those increases after Bernanke said on July 10 monetary policy
will remain “highly accommodative” for the “foreseeable
future.”  Toyota Bonds  The Toyota City, Japan-based company last issued euro-denominated bonds in January, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The carmaker has 500 million euros of securities
maturing in September, Bloomberg data show.  Alain Taverriti, a spokesman for Toyota Motor Europe,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
bond sale.  Also in European credit markets today, Deutsche Bahn AG,
the German state rail company, priced 300 million pounds ($453
million) of 13-year bonds to yield 65 basis points more than
benchmark  government bonds , a person familiar with that deal
said. It’s the Frankfurt-based company’s first sale in the
currency since November, according to Bloomberg data.  Germany ’s State of Lower Saxony sold 500 million euros of
eight-year notes priced to yield 3 basis points more than the
swap rate, a person with knowledge of that transaction said.  High-Yield Market  Maisons du Monde SAS will meet investors in Europe for a
possible sale of high-yield bonds starting tomorrow until July
22, according to a person familiar with the matter. The home
furnishings retailer, based in Nantes,  France , plans to sell 325
million euros of seven-year notes to finance its acquisition by
its managers and Bain Capital LLC, said the person. The
securities are expected to be rated B3, or six levels below
investment grade, by Moody’s Investors Service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Verity Ratcliffe in London at 
 vratcliffe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  