-- Paramount, Ellison’s Skydance Extend Co-Financing Deal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-07-16T21:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/paramount-ellison-s-skydance-extend-movie-co-finance-agreement.html
Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures and
Skydance Productions, partners on films including “ Star Trek 
Into Darkness,” extended their film co-financing and production
agreement through 2018.  Skydance, founded by David Ellison, son of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  co-founder  Larry Ellison , will contribute $200 million to $250
million a year to co-finance and co-produce three to four major
event films per year, according to a person with knowledge of
the accord who sought anonymity because details aren’t public.  The pact ensures a supply of cash to Paramount as the
studio, run by Chief Executive Officer Brad Grey, prepares
“Star Trek” and “Mission Impossible” sequels among its
films. Paramount has joined Skydance and Annapurna Pictures,
founded by Ellison’s sister, Megan, on a “Terminator” reboot
scheduled for June 2015, the companies said in a statement.  With the extension, Skydance keeps an option to co-finance
and co-produce certain Paramount films. Paramount will have
first rights to join Skydance projects as David Ellison’s
company expands its own production, the companies said.  The deal reflects the growing importance of independent
producers, including Legendary Entertainment and Village
Roadshow Pictures, in financing major Hollywood films.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures last week announced a
five-year co-production and financing deal with Legendary
Entertainment, which leaves Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros. in
December. Village Roadshow has a continuing partnership with
Warner that has included movies such as the “Sherlock Holmes”
films starring Robert Downey Jr.  The new Paramount-Skydance agreement extends a deal that
began in 2010, when Skydance raised $350 million for co-financing and co-production with Paramount. Funding included
$150 million in equity and a $200 million revolving credit
facility, Paramount said at the time.  The funding amount for the renewal was reported earlier
today by Variety.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  