-- PetroSA Said to Consider Buying Petronas’ Stake in Engen
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-07-16T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/petrosa-said-to-consider-buying-petronas-stake-in-engen.html
PetroSA,  South Africa ’s state-owned
oil company, is considering buying the controlling stake in
Engen, the country’s biggest fuel retailer, now held by
 Malaysia ’s government, according to two people with knowledge of
an announcement made to Engen staff.  Petroliam Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s state oil company known
as Petronas, holds 80 percent of Engen with Pembani Group Ltd.,
a private equity firm based in Johannesburg, owning the rest.
South Africa’s oil industry had sales of 267 billion rand ($27
billion) in 2011, according to the  South African Petroleum
Industry Association.   PetroSA, which is based in  Cape Town , will conduct a due
diligence process that will take three to six months before a
decision on the acquisition is made, the people said, citing
Datuk Ahmad Nizam Salleh, Engen’s CEO, who addressed staff on
July 15 .  “PetroSA has over the last couple of years indicated a
willingness to look for downstream opportunities,” the company
said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday. “To
fulfill this objective, we have over this period been engaged in
a series of negotiations with various potential partners,” it
said, without commenting further.  African Reach  PetroSA operates a 45,000 barrel-per-day natural gas-fuel
refinery at  Mossel Bay  on the country’s south west coast and is
planning to build a new crude  oil refinery  near  Port Elizabeth 
in the Eastern Cape province.  Engen operates in more than 20 African countries and has a
135,000-barrel-a-day refinery and lubricating oils blending
plant in the eastern South African city of Durban, according to
the company’s  website . It mostly sells fuel in South Africa and
elsewhere in Africa through 1,500 gas stations  Tania Landsberg, a spokeswoman for Engen, declined to
comment.  Gaining access to Engen’s infrastructure and retail
footprint will be a major addition for PetroSA, energy analyst
at Cape Town-based Frost & Sullivan Inc., Cornelis van der Waal,
said by phone.  “There will be a lot of value for PetroSA to do the
deal,” Van der Waal said.  In 1998 Petronas took control of Engen by buying shares in
the company and then offering $465 million for the stock it
didn’t already own. It later sold a stake in the company to a
precursor of Pembani.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  