-- PetroChina, Yanchang Pipelines Shut After Landslide Damage
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-07-16T07:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/petrochina-shaanxi-unit-shut-after-oil-leak-to-protect-water.html
PetroChina Co. (857)  and Shaanxi Yanchang
Petroleum Group Co.’s units in Yanan city, Shaanxi Province,
have been shut by the local government after landslides damaged
oil pipelines and polluted drinking water.  Both companies’ oil and gas pipelines,  oil wells  and
storage facilities near Wangyao Reservoir in Yanan’s Zhidan
county have been shut after crude oil leaked into the water
supply, the Yanan government said on its website today. The
reservoir provides drinking water for more than 200,000
residents in the city, it said.  The companies “must carefully inspect their pipelines,
making sure no oil leak will happen again,” Yanan Mayor Liang
Hongxian said yesterday, according to the website.  China ’s authorities are becoming more responsive to
environmental and health concerns, as the new leadership under
President Xi Jinping and Premier  Li Keqiang  try to establish an
image of a government for the people, said Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an
adjunct professor for history at the  Chinese University  of  Hong
Kong .  “They want to react to environmental and health issues
more swiftly, so people don’t have to take to the streets to
have their voices heard,” Lam said. “This is a more of a
conciliatory approach compared with what they did in the last
government.”  Protests in the southern city of Heshan last week forced
local government to abandon plans for a uranium-processing
facility, while demonstrations in  Shanghai  in May forced battery
maker Shanghai Guoxuan New Energy Co. to ditch plans for a
factory there.  Water Tested  Water from the Wangyao Reservoir is safe to drink, Yanan
environmental officials said after testing its quality on July
14, Shaanxi-based Hua Shang News reported today, without
providing details.  Yanan, a major natural gas and crude oil production area
for PetroChina’s Changqing oilfield, has seen once-in-a-century
rains since July 3, Yanan’s official news website ya123.com
reported. The rainfall killed at least 26 people, injured 118
and caused direct economic losses of 1.57 billion  yuan  ($256
million), according to a statement on the website.  Changqing is PetroChina’s biggest field in China, producing
about 50 million metric tons of oil and gas a year. The company
sent more than 300 people to repair a pipeline that was damaged
by landslides on July 12, Hua Shang News reported. Local
government sent 1,500 people to assist the effort, it said.  Pipeline Repair  The newspaper said 1.4 tons of oil leaked, polluting the
Wangyao Reservoir. The pipeline leaked for a second time
yesterday after a landslide upstream of the reservoir, it
reported.  Yanchang spilled about 13 tons of oil upstream of the
reservoir on July 12 and the company has managed to repair the
pipeline and clean-up most of the leak, according to a statement
from the company’s unit, Yanchang Petroleum Group Pipeline Co.  PetroChina is trying to contact its local unit for more
details, Beijing-based spokesman  Mao Zefeng  said by phone
yesterday. Mao did not answer two calls to his office seeking
comment today.  Yanan had a population of 2.18 million in 2010, according
to the Shaanxi government-sponsored website sxpop.gov.cn.  In November 2011, China National Petroleum Corp., the
parent of PetroChina, was given a disciplinary warning by the
central government for an accident the previous year, after an
 oil spill  caused by an explosion polluted more than 183 square
kilometers (71 square miles) off the coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  