-- Platinum Equity to Buy CBS’s International Billboard Unit
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-07-16T20:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/platinum-equity-to-buy-cbs-s-international-billboard-division.html
Platinum Equity LLC, a Los Angeles
private-equity firm founded by Tom Gores, agreed to buy  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s international billboard unit for about $225 million.  The proposed transaction is subject to completion of works
council consultation and other conditions, New York-based CBS
and Platinum Equity said today in a statement. CBS Outdoor
International operates in the U.K., Ireland,  France ,  Italy , the
Netherlands, Spain and  China .  CBS, owner of the most-watched U.S. TV network, said in
January it planned to sell its international outdoor business
and convert its U.S. billboard operation into a real-estate
investment trust, or REIT. The structure is a popular tool for
companies to lower taxes and improve investor returns. REITs
don’t pay federal income taxes, with the understanding they
distribute at least 90 percent of taxable earnings as dividends.  “There was a range of expectations and this number is
right in the middle,” David Bank, an analyst at RBC Capital
Markets in New York, said in an interview. Bank, who recommends
buying CBS shares, said he had expected the unit to fetch about
$250 million.  The company plans to primarily use proceeds from the sale
to repurchase shares, Chief Financial Officer Joe Ianniello said
at a June 4 investor conference.  CBS, controlled by Chairman Sumner Redstone, fell less than
1 percent to $52.68 at the close in New York. The stock has
 climbed  38 percent this year, while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has added 18 percent.  Unit IPO  CBS filed for an initial public offering for the U.S.
billboard division last month, with a portion of the proceeds to
be used to repay a note. The IRS is weighing whether to narrow
the legal definition of real estate for the purposes of
converting to a trust. CBS will own 80 percent of the U.S.
operation after the share sale.  “Today’s news represents a key strategic milestone for
CBS,” Chief Executive Officer Leslie Moonves said in the
statement. “As we continue to focus our company around creating
and distributing premium content, we are very pleased to
announce that we will achieve very good value for these Outdoor
properties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  