-- Poland To Relax Budget and Fiscal Rules to Stimulate Economy
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-07-16T15:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/polish-government-relaxes-budget-fiscal-rules-to-boost-economy.html
Poland ’s government, facing the
slowest economic growth since the 1990s, unveiled plans today to
widen the  budget deficit  by 16 billion zloty ($4.95 billion) and
suspend rules limiting fiscal stimulus.  Budget revenue will fall about 24 billion zloty ($7.4
billion), or 8 percent, short of the 2013 plan as economic
growth slows amid eroding  consumer confidence  and a euro-region
crisis that proved “more protracted than expected,” Finance
Minister  Jacek Rostowski  told reporters at a news conference in
Warsaw. The government seeks more than 8 billion zloty in extra
spending cuts, lowering the country’s  structural deficit  even as
this year’s budget shortfall widens, he said.  “Under the current conditions of stagnation, Poland’s
economy needs stimulus in the short term and fiscal
consolidation in the long term,” Rostowski said. “Widening the
government budget deficit by about 1 percent of gross domestic
product is a strong boost by any normal economic canon.”  Poland’s economy, the only one in the European Union to
avoid recession since 2009, will expand 1.1 percent this year,
according to central bank projections published on July 8. That
would be the  slowest pace  since at least 1997. Poland’s 2013
budget was based on an economic growth forecast of 2.2 percent,
compared with 1.9 percent in 2012.  Biggest Gainer  The zloty extended gains after the announcement, advancing 1
percent to a four-week high of 4.2467 against the euro at 4:54
p.m. in Warsaw, making it the biggest gainer among 24 emerging
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on Poland’s
10-year government bond rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 3.93 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The market reaction shows “growth stimulus seems to be
more important that sovereign credit risk,”  Rafal Benecki ,
chief economist at ING Groep NV’s Polish unit, wrote in a note.  “We can’t afford to overdo budget cuts that could restrict
consumption,” Prime Minister Donald Tusk said at the news
conference. “We need to boost the economy at the critical
moment, which is this year, while the first signs of recovery
should be visible in late 2013 and 2014.”  Poland plans to waive fiscal safety rules that prohibit
increasing the budget deficit once public debt tops 50 percent
of gross domestic product, Rostowski said. The suspension would
apply to 2013 and 2014 only and the safeguard threshold will
remain in the amended public finance law, he added.  More Flexibility  A  new spending rule , to be adopted separately, will
increase “flexibility” in lean years and restrict expenditures
when the economy speeds up, according to Rostowski.  While debt has been above 50 percent of output since 2010,
Tusk’s government has reduced its  budget deficit  from a record
7.9 percent of GDP that year to 3.9 percent last year.  The planned changes aren’t “hair-raising,”  Piotr Kalisz ,
the chief economist at Citigroup Inc.’s Polish unit, said by
phone from Warsaw. The 45 percent increase in this year’s budget
deficit fits the “higher end” of market expectations and
should ensure that  Poland’s economy  expands 1 percent to 1.5
percent this year.  The cost of protecting Polish debt against non-payment
using credit-default swaps was unchanged at 91 basis points
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show, compared with 88 basis
points for  Chile , which is rated two levels above Poland’s A2
grade by Moody’s Investors Service.  Fitch Ratings , which raised the outlook on Poland’s A- debt
rating to positive from stable on Feb. 21, said today it’s
reserving judgment on the budget announcement.  “We would like to wait for a fuller picture of various
developments currently underway before assessing any impact,”
Matteo Napolitano, a London-based director at Fitch, wrote in an
e-mail today. “This includes final decisions on pension-funds
reform and the new structural expenditure rule.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa in Warsaw at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  