-- Rui Costa Wins Tour Stage After Froome Veers Onto Grass Verge
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-07-16T16:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/portugal-s-rui-costa-wins-tour-de-france-stage-in-solo-breakaway.html
Portugal ’s Rui Costa won stage 16 of
the Tour de France after a solo breakaway on the final climb of
a hilly 104-mile stage.  Costa of the Movistar team attacked on the Col de Manse and
descended alone to win the ride to Gap by 42 seconds. French
riders Christophe Riblon and Arnold Jeannesson finished second
and third, respectively.  “I was watchful on the last climb, I knew there was going
to be a lot of movement, but I was able to get away,” the 26-year-old Costa told reporters.  Chris Froome defended his lead even after he veered onto a
grass verge when  Alberto Contador  crashed in front of him on the
final descent. Both riders recovered and chased down a group
including second-placed Bauke Mollema and Nairo Quintana,  who
rose one place to fifth .  “It was a bit risky for Alberto to descend that way,”
Froome told reporters. “He put me in danger: I had to go off
the road to avoid him. One second you could be on your way to
the finish, the next second you could be lying in a ditch with a
broken bone.”  Froome, a Kenyan-born Briton, has a 4 minute, 14 second
lead over Mollema of the Netherlands after the 16th of 21
stages.  Spain ’s two-time champion Contador is 11 seconds further
back in third place.  Contador misjudged a bend and slipped five miles from the
end, causing Froome to veer out of the way and put his foot down
on the grass verge to keep his balance. Earlier, Contador twice
attacked on the climb of the Col de Manse although he wasn’t
able to get away from Froome.  Tomorrow is a  20-mile time trial over two climbs  between
Embrun and Chorges. The race ends July 21 in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Gap,  France  at  aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  