-- Portuguese Parties Hold Fourth Day of Talks on ‘Salvation’ Pact
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2013-07-17T09:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/portuguese-parties-plan-fourth-day-of-talks-on-salvation-pact.html
Portugal ’s ruling coalition parties
will hold a fourth day of talks today with the main opposition
party as they seek an agreement on how to meet the conditions of
the country’s bailout program.  “Work has progressed in an intense fashion,” the
opposition Socialists and Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho ’s
 Social Democratic Party  said in matching  statements  issued
separately late yesterday. “Party delegations agreed to
continue meetings tomorrow with the presentation of written
contributions, with a view to obtain a compromise on national
salvation as quickly as possible.”  President Anibal Cavaco Silva, who has the power to
dissolve parliament, called on the three parties on July 10 to
reach an agreement that will allow Portugal to complete its aid
program through June 2014 and set early elections for after that
date. He also urged them to ensure  debt  will be sustainable with
a new government after the European Union-led bailout ends.  The Social Democratic delegation is led by Jorge Moreira da Silva, while the Socialist Party’s team is led by Alberto Martins. Pedro Mota Soares heads the delegation from the CDS,
the second coalition party. Finance Minister Maria Luis  Albuquerque  and David Justino, an adviser to the president, also
attended the meeting yesterday, the parties said.  Bond Yields  The parties gave themselves one week to reach an accord
when talks began on July 14. Portugal will today hold its first
bill auction in four weeks as it plans to sell as much as 1.5
billion euros ($2 billion) of five- and 12-month bills. It last
sold 12-month bills on May 15 at an average yield of 1.232
percent.  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield was little changed at 7.15
percent as of 9:15 a.m. in  London  today, up from 6.39 percent on
July 1, the day before a rift in the coalition emerged. The
yield breached a seven-month high of more than 8 percent on July
3. The country pays 3.2 percent on its bailout loans.  “Portugal has returned to the limelight following the
political turmoil over recent weeks,” Ruben Segura-Cayuela,
Sphia Salim and Ralf Preusser at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
said in a client note yesterday. “With  10-year (GSPT10YR)  yields at above
7 percent, and five-year yields flirting with that level, the
prospects of regaining full  market access  by mid-2014 are
diminishing substantially.”  Coalition Agreement  The two coalition parties settled a split over budget
policy on July 6 with Coelho offering CDS leader and foreign
minister Paulo Portas the post of vice premier and control over
economic policy. While ruling out early elections right away,
the president didn’t endorse the new coalition agreement between
Coelho and the CDS party, calling for a broader pact also
involving the Socialists.  The president will hold his weekly meeting with Coelho at
4:30 p.m. today. Silva starts a visit tomorrow to Portugal’s
Selvagens islands in the Atlantic Ocean, south-west of the
mainland. He returns to Lisbon on the morning of July 19.  The Socialists said in another statement last night that
they won’t start separate talks with the Left Bloc and the
Communist Party after those two groups refused to take part in
the discussions with the coalition parties. Both the Left Bloc
and the Communists have argued in favor of debt restructuring.  The eighth review of Portugal’s progress on meeting the
terms of the 78 billion-euro aid program has been pushed back to
the end of August or the start of September due to the political
situation, the  Finance Ministry  said on July 11. The review had
been due to start on July 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  