-- Portuguese Parties Seek ‘Salvation’ Pact as Soon as Possible
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2013-07-16T12:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/portuguese-parties-seek-salvation-pact-as-soon-as-possible.html
Portugal’s two coalition parties
will resume talks with the main opposition Socialists in a bid
to agree on a plan to stick to the country’s bailout program.  “The fundamental issues were identified with a view to
obtain an agreement of national salvation with the maximum
brevity,” the opposition Socialists and Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho ’s  Social Democratic Party  said in separate
 statements  e-mailed late yesterday after the parties met. The
smaller conservative CDS is the second coalition party.  Talks began on July 14, when the parties discussed “work
methodology” and gave themselves one week to reach an accord.
The Social Democratic delegation is led by Jorge Moreira da Silva, while the Socialist Party’s team is led by Alberto Martins. Pedro Mota Soares heads the CDS group. David Justino,
an adviser to President Anibal Cavaco Silva, also attended the
meeting as an “observer,” the parties said.  The president, who has the power to dissolve parliament,
called on the three parties on July 10 to reach an agreement
that will allow  Portugal  to complete its aid program through
June 2014 and set early elections to take place after that date.
He also urged them to ensure  debt  will be sustainable with a new
government after the European Union-led bailout ends.  Bond Yields  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield fell 11 basis points to 7.18
percent at 12:34 p.m. in  London , up from 6.39 percent on July 1,
the day before a rift in the coalition emerged. The yield
breached a seven-month high of more than 8 percent on July 3.
The country pays 3.2 percent on its bailout loans.  “Portugal has returned to the limelight following the
political turmoil over recent weeks,” Ruben Segura-Cayuela,
Sphia Salim and Ralf Preusser at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
said in a client note today. “With  10-year (GSPT10YR)  yields at above 7
percent, and five-year yields flirting with that level, the
prospects of regaining full  market access  by mid-2014 are
diminishing substantially.”  The two coalition parties settled a split over budget
policy on July 6 with Passos Coelho offering CDS leader and
foreign minister Paulo Portas the post of vice premier and
control over economic policy. While ruling out early elections
right away, the president didn’t endorse the new coalition
agreement between Passos Coelho and CDS, opting to call for a
broader pact also involving the Socialists.  The eighth and ninth review of Portugal’s progress on
meeting the terms of the 78 billion-euro ($102 billion) aid
program will both now take place at the end of August or the
start of September due to the “political situation,” the
 Finance Ministry  said on July 11. The ministry had said the
eighth review was due to start on July 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  