-- Gilts Jump as CPI Gives BOE Leeway; Pound Weakens to 4-Month Low
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-07-16T15:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/pound-strengthens-versus-dollar-before-u-k-inflation-reports.html
U.K. gilts advanced, pushing the
yield on two-year securities to the lowest in almost two months,
amid speculation slowing inflation will leave room for the  Bank
of England  to maintain its accommodative monetary policy.  U.K. government bonds also rose before the central bank
publishes the minutes of its most recent meeting tomorrow, which
will reveal how policy makers voted at Governor  Mark Carney ’s
first interest-rate decision. The 10-year gilt  yield  has climbed
more than 35 basis points since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said on May 22 that the Fed could cut the pace of its
bond purchases if officials saw indications of sustained growth.
The pound weakened to a four-month low versus the euro.  “U.K. policy makers have suggested that the recent rise in
yields that was influenced by the Fed’s policy was probably
unwarranted, and the inflation data today rubber stamped that,”
said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America
Corp. in  London . “There is much less reason to think monetary
conditions should be tightening. Data like this should support
short-dated gilts.”  The yield on two-year debt slid five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 0.32 percent at 4:24 p.m. London time,
after reaching 0.30 percent, the least since May 24. The 2.75
percent security maturing in January 2015 rose 0.07, or 70 pence
per 1,000-pound ($1,513) face amount, to 103.67.  Yield Forecasts  The benchmark  10-year gilt  yield dropped eight basis points
to 2.27 percent after falling to 2.26 percent, the lowest since
June 20. The securities yielded 27 basis points less than
similar-maturity Treasuries, the biggest discount since August
2006.  Bank of America forecasts that 10-year gilt yields will be
at 2.30 percent by the end of third quarter, before rising to
2.50 percent by the end of the year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  U.K.  consumer price inflation  was 2.9 percent from a year
earlier in June, compared with 2.7 percent in the previous
month, the  Office for National Statistics  said. The median
forecast of 31 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was 3
percent.  Producer prices  climbed 2 percent from a year earlier.
Analysts in a separate Bloomberg survey predicted a 1.9 percent
increase.  Today’s report means Carney, who took over the Bank of
England this month, will avoid having to write an open letter to
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  about what will be
done to control price gains. The central bank’s mandate requires
such a letter when inflation deviates more than one percentage
point from the 2 percent target.  Inflation Peak  “This could be the peak in CPI for the year, depending on
oil price developments,” said Jason Simpson, a fixed-income
strategist at Banco Santander SA in London. “The fact it has
stayed contained within the Monetary Policy Committee’s
allowable range is good news as it will allow policy makers to
remain dovish with their forward guidance. This should help
underpin the front end of the curve,” he said, referring to
shorter-maturity gilts.  The Bank of England signaled on July 4 that it would keep
 interest rates  low for longer than investors had expected.
Officials also held their bond-purchase  target  at 375 billion
pounds. Minutes of the policy decision will be published
tomorrow and will show whether Carney followed his predecessor,
 Mervyn King , in voting for more quantitative easing.  Gilts extended their gain after Bank of England policy
maker  Paul Fisher  said the unwinding of stimulus in the U.K. may
be “years in the future.”  Exit Strategy  Fisher, who voted for more bond purchases in recent months,
told lawmakers in London that the Bank of England’s exit will
start with an increase in the  benchmark rate , currently 0.5
percent, and the market reaction to that will determine when
sales of gilts purchased as part of the quantitative-easing
program begin.  “We would only start when we thought we could maintain a
program of sales for a good long period,” Fisher said. “We’ve
suggested maybe six months’ worth at a time.”  The pound depreciated 0.5 percent to 86.90 pence per euro,
after touching 87.07 pence, the weakest level since March 13, as
the decline in yields weighed on the currency. Sterling rose 0.2
percent to $1.5123.  The pound dropped 1.3 percent in the past month, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar advanced 3 percent and
the euro gained 1.3 percent. Sterling underperformed the dollar
and the euro amid speculation the new U.K. central-bank chief
will favor a loose monetary policy to support growth.  Inflation Expectations  “We expect the pound to weaken further,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. in London. “The data may not change the market view that
policy makers are willing to be flexible about inflation to
support growth.”  The U.K. 10-year  break-even rate  narrowed three basis
points to 3.09 percentage point. The gauge measures market
inflation expectations over the lifetime of the debt and is
derived from the yield difference between gilts and inflation-protected securities. It’s up from 2.90 percentage points at the
end of last month.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 2.7 percent this year
through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.
German bonds declined 0.9 percent and Treasuries fell 2.6
percent, the indexes show.  Inflation-protected gilts outperformed their conventional
counterparts, returning 2.6 percent this year through yesterday,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.K. Inflation-Linked Gilt Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  