-- Power Plants Face ‘Collision Course’ With Water, Researchers Say
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-07-16T19:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/power-plants-face-collision-course-with-water-researchers-say.html
U.S. power producers must reduce
their dependence on water or they may be forced to lower output
as drought and other extreme weather events curtail their access
to water supplies, researchers said today.  Power plants throughout the U.S. “repeatedly” had to
reduce output or even shut down completely last year for want of
cooling water, and the conflict between the growing need for
electricity and the increasing demands on the water supply is
only becoming more pronounced, according to a  report  from the
Union of Concerned Scientists.  About 40 percent of the U.S. supply of fresh water goes to
power plants that convert steam into power, the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based group said. That comprises all coal and
nuclear facilities and some fueled by natural gas and renewable
sources. As the utility industry seeks to reduce carbon
emissions by replacing aging generating stations, it should also
consider water consumption.  “We did set electricity and water on a collision course
years ago, but we have options,” John Rogers, a senior energy
analyst at the Union of Concerned Scientists, said on a
conference call today. “We have the possibility and real need
to build a power system that’s more equipped for the changing
water landscape.”  Two technologies aimed at reducing carbon emissions,
nuclear power and carbon capture and storage for coal plants,
require substantial water resources. “That could worsen rather
than lessen the sector’s effects on water,” according to the
report.  Existing facilities also may adjust the ways they use
water. The Palo Verde nuclear plant outside Phoenix now uses
wastewater for cooling, saving 11 billion gallons (42 billion
liters) of fresh water annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  