-- Prudential Said to Get DeMarco’s Backing to Avoid SIFI
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-07-17T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/prudential-said-to-get-demarco-s-backing-to-avoid-sifi.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
insurer contesting a decision deeming it systemically important,
won the support of the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  during a
vote of U.S. regulators last month, two people familiar with the
matter said.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council voted 7-2 to
designate an unidentified company as systemically important,
meaning the firm could endanger the financial system if it were
to fail, according to minutes of the June 3 meeting released
yesterday by the Treasury Department. The company was
Prudential, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information wasn’t officially released.  The FHFA’s acting director, Edward DeMarco, voted “no,”
as did Roy Woodall, a former Kentucky state insurance
commissioner who is the council’s independent member with
insurance expertise, the panel said.  Prudential is the only one of three companies appealing the
FSOC’s ruling subjecting them to heightened Federal Reserve
oversight. The  Newark , New Jersey-based insurer said on July 2
that it requested a hearing to explain why it shouldn’t be
designated.  The Fed could impose stricter capital and liquidity
standards on systemically important firms.  Bob DeFillippo , a
Prudential spokesman, declined to comment yesterday.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, announced
yesterday that it had been moved to the last stage of review to
be designated as systemically important. Chief Executive Officer
Steven Kandarian said that MetLife poses no danger to the
economy and an “unlevel playing field” may result when only
some insurers are subject to heightened scrutiny.  Financial Stability  “Not only does exposure to MetLife not threaten the
financial system, but I cannot think of a single firm that would
be threatened by its exposure to MetLife,” Kandarian, 61, said
in a statement. “The life-insurance industry is a source of
financial stability.”  The FSOC, led by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, voted
10-0 to designate  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and 9-0 on
 General Electric Co. (GE) ’s finance unit. Neither company appealed
the decision.  The Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, designed to avoid a
repeat of the 2008 bailouts, increased supervision of the
largest U.S. lenders and allowed the FSOC to designate non-bank
firms for extra oversight.  The FSOC has 10 voting members, including Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and the chairmen of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  