-- Putin Foe Navalny Faces Jail as Investors Fret About Selloff
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-07-17T12:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/putin-foe-navalny-faces-prison-as-investors-fret-market-selloff.html
Alexey Navalny faces possible
imprisonment tomorrow in the highest-profile case against a
critic of President Vladimir Putin since the prosecution of
former oil billionaire Mikhail Khodorkovsky.  A judge in Kirov, 900 kilometers (560 miles) northeast of
Moscow, will rule on charges that Navalny defrauded state-owned
timber company Kirovles of 16 million rubles ($493,000).
Prosecutors have demanded a six-year prison term and a fine of 1
million rubles.  Political fallout from the case risks further unsettling
the country’s financial markets, with Russian equities trading
at the cheapest valuations based on estimated earnings among 21
emerging economies tracked by Bloomberg. Navalny, who’s
campaigning to be Moscow’s mayor in September and wants to
contest the next presidential election in 2018, denies any
wrongdoing and says the case is payback for helping lead the
biggest protests against Putin’s 13-year rule in 2011.  “A guilty verdict may trigger a new wave of protest
against Putin’s regime and put even more pressure on Russian
financial markets,” Dmitry Malykhin, who oversees $30 million
in Russian assets at Moscow-based hedge fund Da Vinci CIS
Opportunities, said by e-mail.  Navalny said today through his Twitter account that he
registered to run for Moscow mayor in the Sept. 9 elections.
Even if convicted tomorrow, Navalny can remain a candidate while
an appeal is pending, Anna Veduta, his spokeswoman, said in a
text message.  Stocks Rise  The 50-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  climbed 0.5 percent to 1,417.69 by
3:15 p.m. in Moscow.  Russia ’s benchmark gauge  trades  at 5.4
times its 12-month estimated earnings, having lost 3.9 percent
this year. That compares with a multiple of 10.6 times for
companies in the MSCI Emerging Market Index, which has dropped
9.5 percent this year. Net capital outflows reached $54 billion
last year and exceeded $38 billion in the first six months of
2013, preliminary central bank  data  show.  Navalny, a lawyer who’s campaigned to expose fraud and
waste at state companies and corruption by officials, is the
highest-profile opponent of Putin to face jail since former
Yukos owner Khodorkovsky, once Russia’s richest man who is
serving 13 years in prison under two separate convictions.  Khodorkovsky was detained in October 2003 after funding
opposition parties and is serving a 13-year sentence following
two convictions for fraud and tax evasion. A Moscow court cut
his sentence to 11 years in December.  Putin Crackdown  More than 6,500 people have signed up to attend a rally
against Navalny’s sentencing near the Kremlin tomorrow,
according to a  Facebook page  set up by the organizers. Navalny
helped mobilize tens of thousands of anti-Putin supporters in
rallies in 2011 and last year, including a May 2012 protest that
involved violent clashes with police. An additional 8,000 have
signed up via  Vkontakte , the popular Russian social network.  Putin, 60, has hardened his response against critics since
winning a new six-year presidential term last year. Some
protesters have been imprisoned while non-government
organizations that get funding from abroad are being threatened
with fines or possible closing unless they declare themselves
foreign agents.  A Navalny jail term “may not be priced in by the market,”
said Dmitri Kryukov, founder of Moscow-based investment firm
Verno Capital, which has $230 million under management.  ‘Negative Headline’  While Putin has called for improved legislation to
safeguard property rights and stem capital flight, investors
have cited the Navalny case as an example of Russia’s continuing
failure to respect the rule of law. Khodorkovsky, 50, says he
was targeted for financing opposition parties, an accusation the
Kremlin denies. Yukos was sold in pieces, mostly to state-run
 OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , to cover tens of billions of dollars in back taxes.  A conviction for Navalny would be “another negative
headline for Russia, another reason why funds will hold back and
locals will continue to stash money offshore,” Tim Ash, head of
emerging-market research at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in  London ,
said by phone July 15. “Investors want a level playing field,
strong and independent courts, they don’t want arbitrary,
politically driven prosecutions.”  Navalny was defiant in a July 11 interview with the radio
station Ekho Moskvy, accusing Putin and his billionaire
associates of fabricating the criminal case against him to
protect their wealth and saying that he expects to be found
guilty and possibly imprisoned.  “When I see that in our country the oil and gas dollars
flowing in huge quantities are openly plundered by Putin’s
buddies, how can I stay on the sidelines?” he said. “I’m sure
that sooner or later, I’ll be the one to throw them in jail.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  