-- THQ Gets Approval of Liquidating Plan Ending Bankruptcy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-07-16T20:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/thq-gets-approval-of-liquidating-plan-ending-bankruptcy.html
THQ Inc. (THQIQ) , the former video-game
maker, won court approval of its liquidating bankruptcy plan,
ending a case that saw the once-prominent publisher’s titles
sold off to former rivals.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary F. Walrath granted approval of
the plan, which pays creditors from the proceeds of selling off
virtually all of THQ’s assets, at a hearing today in Wilmington,
Delaware.  The company “has met the burden of establishing that the
plan should be approved, and I will confirm it,” Walrath said.  THQ, the maker of the “Saints Row” and “Company of
Heroes” video games, failed in its bid to survive the
bankruptcy intact with a proposed sale to Clearlake Capital
Group LP. Instead, most of its assets were sold to competitors
at an auction in January, bringing in about $72 million.
Unsecured creditors had argued the sale process was too fast and
piecemeal offers could create more value.  The company sold the assets remaining from the January
auction, including its “Darksiders” franchise, for about
$6.6 million, according to an April 22 statement.  The Agoura Hills, California-based former video-game maker
said it was forced to seek bankruptcy protection after
sustaining losses for the past five fiscal years. The company
listed assets of $204.8 million and debt of $248.1 million when
it sought court protection on Dec. 19.  Unsecured Creditors  Unsecured creditors are projected to recover 20 percent to
52 percent of what they’re owed, depending on the amount of
allowed claims, according to the disclosure statement, an
outline of the liquidating plan. They are estimated to have from
$143 million to $184 million in claims, according to the
statement.  If the amount of allowed unsecured claims falls within that
range, the projected recoveries for unsecured creditors would be
31.5 percent to 51.9 percent.  If the claims of European subsidiaries, about $107 million,
are allowed, the recoveries are projected to be 19.9 percent to
29.6 percent, court filings show.  THQ said in court papers that the units have enough cash to
satisfy their own debts so any distribution to them would
ultimately be returned to THQ. Their claims, therefore,
shouldn’t be allowed, the company said. THQ claims the surplus
could be from $9.1 million to $15.1 million.  European Subsidiaries  The European units argued in court documents that even if
they eventually have a surplus to pay back to the parent, THQ
would be circumventing bankruptcy procedures by seeking to get
paid ahead of their creditors, when as a shareholder of the
subsidiaries it should be paid after creditors.  THQ has asked for the subsidiaries’ claims to be
subordinated so they don’t have to go through the process of
paying them only to have any surplus paid back after the
subsidiaries’ liquidations are complete, which the company
claims could take two years. Walrath will consider the dispute
at a hearing set for Aug. 19.  The case is In re THQ Inc., 12-13398, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  