-- Qiwi’s Visa-Linked Wallets Spur 56% Post-IPO Jump on Growth Bets
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o ,   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-07-17T11:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/qiwi-s-visa-linked-wallets-spur-post-ipo-jump-russia-overnight.html
Qiwi Plc (QIWI) , a Russian electronic
payment service backed by billionaire  Alisher Usmanov , has
surged 56 percent since its May initial public offering as
investors bet the industry is poised for growth.  Qiwi is posting the top performance after  Tableau Software
Inc. (DATA) , a U.S. provider of digital-charting tools, among 15
companies that sold at least $200 million of shares since May 1.
The rally outpaced a 2.8 percent drop in the Bloomberg Russia-US
Equity Index of the most-traded Russian stocks in the U.S. The
gauge rose 0.6 percent yesterday to a seven-week high of 91.15.
Qiwi gained 1.5 percent to $26.52.  The company operates more than 165,000 cash-collecting
terminals and kiosks where customers can make deposits, double
the number of automated teller machines and terminals run by OAO
Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender. While Usmanov’s Internet
holding  Mail.ru Group Ltd (MAIL)  sold $60 million of Qiwi shares in the
IPO, Chief Executive Officer Sergey Solonin has held on to his
25 percent stake, citing the potential for growth as it expands
Qiwi Wallet accounts co-branded with  Visa Inc. (V) , which enable
merchants to accept electronic payments.  “The company will continue to grow,” Solonin, 39, said in
an interview at Qiwi’s office in Moscow on July 16. “This is a
unique product. There are no direct analogies because of our
product mix, chain effect of the terminals, our presence both in
the physical space and online.”  Visa Co-Branding  Qiwi,  created  in April 2008 and registered in Nicosia,
Cyprus, enables merchants to accept payments from as many as 65
million customers a month, according to the IPO statement. It
has 13 million Qiwi Wallet accounts.  “Investors began putting their cash in when they realized
what our product was,” Solonin said. “This is a completely new
theme, there aren’t clear comparisons with other companies. Many
investors took the time to find out how our terminals work, what
is a wallet and why it’s rising in popularity.”  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s most popular search provider, is
reconsidering or has abandoned projects to broaden the appeal of
Google Wallet, the mobile software that allows users to pay for
purchases online and in stores with their phones, more than half
a dozen people close to the company who asked not to be
identified because the plans are private, said last month.  Qiwi Accounts  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  reported first-quarter revenue that missed some
analysts’ estimates in April as growth slowed at its PayPal
unit. PayPal’s sales increase decelerated to 18 percent in the
first quarter from 32 percent a year earlier. The online-payment
unit took in less money per transaction, hurt by an economic
slowdown and weaker currencies in Europe, EBay said.  Qiwi’s  adjusted net income  in the first quarter more than
tripled from a year earlier to 455 million rubles ($14 million),
according to a June 4 statement. The number of active Visa Qiwi
Wallet payment accounts -- which customers use to pay for their
mobile phones, cable, airline and train tickets or settle e-commerce transactions -- jumped 49 percent, Qiwi said.  Qiwi’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and
amortization will surge 39 percent this year, according to the
 average estimate  of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The Qiwi Visa wallet unit has generated more than 100
percent growth in payment volume in each of the past three
years,”  David Koning , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in
 Milwaukee , Wisconsin, who rates the stock the equivalent of buy,
said by e-mail yesterday. “We expect growth to remain strong,
but it is difficult to sustain 100 percent growth. We model more
than 50 percent growth for full-year 2013.”  Russian Rivals  WebMoney and Yandex.Money are the biggest rivals for Qiwi
in Russia, Boris Kim, the chairman of Qiwi’s board of directors,
said in an interview yesterday. Sberbank completed the
acquisition of almost 75 percent of Yandex.Money for about $60
million this month.  Qiwi operates in eight countries, including Brazil, Jordan,
and  Kazakhstan , according to the company’s  website . Qiwi’s
terminals are used in 11 countries, including China and
Argentina, under franchising agreements.  Yandex NV (YNDX) , the owner of Russia’s biggest online search
engine, has gained 14 percent since May 2, while Mail.ru has
advanced 10 percent in London and  OAO MegaFon (MFON) , Russia’s second-largest wireless carrier, rose 11 percent.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained 0.3 percent to 1,414.10 by
2:59 p.m. in Moscow, while the dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$) 
added 0.3 percent to 1,372.51. The RTS Volatility Index, which
measures expected swings in futures, rose 4.5 percent to 24.87
today.  Futures on the dollar-denominated RTS Index added 0.5
percent to 137,210. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX)  rose 0.9
percent to $26.90 yesterday.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
was unchanged at HK$2.90 in Hong Kong trading. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index was little changed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Summers in  New York  at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  