-- RBA Says Rate Appropriate After Aussie Drop; Currency Gains
-- B y   M a l c o l m   S c o t t
-- 2013-07-16T03:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/rba-says-rate-appropriate-after-aussie-drop-has-room-to-cut-1-.html
Australia ’s central bank said the
currency’s decline and past interest-rate cuts meant its policy
setting was appropriate even as it maintained room for future
reductions, according to minutes of its July 2 meeting.  “Given the exchange rate adjustment that was occurring,
and with the substantial degree of monetary stimulus already in
place, members assessed the current stance of policy to be
appropriate,” the Reserve Bank of Australia said today in
Sydney in minutes of the meeting at which it held the cash rate
steady. The RBA said the inflation outlook was “slightly
higher” due to the Aussie’s recent drop.  The currency climbed as traders pared bets on another rate
cut next month after the commentary on inflation. Governor Glenn
Stevens and his board reduced  borrowing costs  by 2 percentage
points to a record-low 2.75 percent since late 2011, aiming to
rebalance growth as a mining-investment boom peaks.  The inflation comment doesn’t “rule out an August rate cut
per se, but it does dilute the urgency for a near-term rate cut,
at the margin,” said Alvin Pontoh, a Singapore-based Asia-Pacific strategist at TD Securities.  A 12 percent decline in the Australian dollar last quarter
eased pressure on the governor to cut rates again. The currency
rose to 91.60 U.S. cents at 1 p.m. in Sydney from 91.11 cents
before the minutes were released.  Traders were pricing in a 54 percent chance the RBA will
lower borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to a fresh
record 2.5 percent next month, according to  interest-rate swaps 
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from a 65 percent chance
yesterday.  Inflation Outlook  “The inflation outlook, although slightly higher because
of the exchange rate depreciation, could still provide some
scope for further easing, should that be required to support
demand,” the RBA said in the minutes today. In minutes of its
June meeting, it had said the inflation outlook “might provide
some scope” for more rate reductions.  “There is a modest toning down of the easing bias,” TD’s
Pontoh said.  In New Zealand, inflation slowed more than economists
forecast last quarter as import prices dropped, adding to signs
that a period of record-low interest rates will extend into next
year. Consumer prices rose 0.2 percent from the first quarter,
when they gained 0.4 percent, Statistics New Zealand said in
Wellington today.  Dollar Strength  Australia’s currency averaged about $1 in the past three
years, compared with about 70 cents in the prior two decades,
spurred by the resource investment boom and near-zero interest
rates in the U.S. and  Japan . The Aussie’s strength squeezed
manufacturers and Ford Motor Co. announced May 23 it would end
production in the country after nine decades, with the loss of
1,200 jobs.  The Aussie’s slump since then reflects slowing growth in
China and comments by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke,
who said May 22 the central bank could scale back stimulus
efforts should the jobs market outlook show sustainable
improvement.  “The news in recent months had generally been consistent
with the outlook for growth being a little below trend and
inflation remaining consistent with the medium-term target,”
the minutes said. “The most significant change had been the
depreciation of the exchange rate, though members noted that it
remained at a high level.”  Since the RBA’s July 2 meeting, data has showed rising
unemployment, subdued business and  consumer confidence , a drop
in building approvals and an increase in the value of home loan
approvals. The jobless rate climbed to 5.7 percent in June, the
highest since September 2009 and up from a revised 5.6 percent a
month earlier, the statistics bureau said in Sydney July 11, as
more people sought work.  Inflation Outlook  The decline in the Australian dollar “was expected to add
a little to inflation over time, but the forecast was for
inflation to remain consistent with the target,” the RBA said.  Inflation data  for the second quarter is due to be released
July 24. The RBA targets price increases of 2 percent to 3
percent.  The RBA said today it was possible the Australian dollar
would depreciate further “as the terms of trade and mining
investment declined, which would help to foster a rebalancing of
growth in the economy.”  It said the outlook for mining and non-mining investment
remained uncertain, and that mining investment was likely to
stay high for some quarters “even though it looked to be close
to, if not past, its peak.” Mining investment is then expected
to decline more rapidly, the minutes said.  China Slowdown  Central to that outlook will be demand from  China . The RBA
today said it was too early to tell whether tightening financial
conditions in the world’s second-largest economy would be
sustained, or how that would affect economic activity there.  China’s economy slowed for a second quarter as growth in
factory output and fixed-asset investment weakened, adding to
risks that the government will miss its expansion target as
Premier Li Keqiang reins in a credit boom.  China’s GDP rose 7.5 percent in April-to-June from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing
yesterday, equaling the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey and down from 7.7 percent in the first quarter.  The RBA said forward-looking indicators of Australian labor
demand implied modest growth in employment, and that conditions
in the housing market continued to improve.  “The effects of lower interest rates were apparent across
a range of indicators and, given the lags involved in the
transmission of monetary policy, this process had further to
run,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malcolm Scott in Sydney at 
 Mscott23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  