-- Financial Regulators to Pick Strategy for Bank Creditor Losses
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-07-16T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/regulators-must-pick-strategy-for-bank-creditor-losses-fsb-says.html
Regulators were told by a global
oversight body to decide in advance whether to force investors
at a bank’s parent company or its subsidiaries to take losses in
the event of a crisis.  National watchdogs should evaluate a bank’s structure
before picking an approach, the  Financial Stability Board , based
in  Basel ,  Switzerland , said in a statement today.  Authorities have struggled to solve the issue of too-big-to-fail lenders almost five years since the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Michel Barnier , the European
Union’s financial-services chief, this month unveiled a plan for
a single resolution mechanism that gives the European Commission
in Brussels the power to decide when banks in the trading bloc
need to be saved or shut.  “Key jurisdictions are well on the way to having the
necessary legislative regimes in place,”  Paul Tucker , the
deputy governor of the  Bank of England  who also chairs an FSB
committee, said in a statement. “Next steps will need to
include regulatory measures to remove impediments, and changes
to firms’ financial or organisational structure where
necessary.”  A regulator using a single point of entry strategy would
impose losses on investors in a lender’s parent company, where a
multiple point of entry approach would see creditors of a bank’s
international subsidiaries taking a hit in a crisis.  The FSB has been critical of attempts to implement global
rules on creditor losses, saying in April that “few
jurisdictions have equipped administrative authorities with the
full set of powers to resolve banks.”  Cyber Attacks  While the FSB looked at risks to banks, another group of
regulators issued a warning to exchanges about possible
technology issues.  Equities markets may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks aimed
at disrupting the financial system, the  International
Organization of Securities Commissions  said in a separate report
yesterday.  About half of the exchanges surveyed by Iosco, a Madrid-based group of global markets regulators, experienced a cyber-attack in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  