-- Remember Bernie Goetz? Why We Need a U.S. Inquiry
-- B y   P a u l   H .   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-07-16T13:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/remember-bernie-goetz-why-we-need-a-u-s-inquiry.html
It would be reassuring to think that
George Zimmerman’s  acquittal  on murder charges in the death of
Trayvon Martin finally settled the matter, that we could take
the acquittal as the jury’s conclusion that the shooting was
reasonable self-defense. Unfortunately, a serious flaw in
Florida law leaves that conclusion uncertain.  The acquittal might mean one of two things: that Zimmerman
acted entirely reasonably, or that he acted unreasonably, yet
was less blameworthy than a stone-cold murderer. If the latter,
then a  federal inquiry  might be justified.  The states are split on how they formulate their self-defense statutes. The Model Penal Code of the American Law
Institute, the basis for three-quarters of the states’ codes,
provides a “sliding scale” of liability. If someone acts in
reasonable self-defense, that person gets a complete acquittal.
Yet if he makes an honest but unreasonable mistake -- sometimes
called “imperfect self-defense” -- then he has some liability,
something short of murder liability, usually negligent or
reckless homicide.  In many states, however, including  Florida , statutes reject
this approach in favor of “all or nothing.” If the person is
perfectly reasonable in judging the need to shoot in self-defense, he gets an acquittal. If his self-defense is performed
imperfectly, however, then there is no defense or mitigation:
The accused is treated the same as the cold-blooded killer who
had no thought of self-defense.  Juries Balk  Juries often see this as an unjust result, and sometimes
 balk  at it. A person who makes a mistake in the chaos of
defending himself in an attack is seen as much less culpable
than a person who intentionally kills when there is no call for
self-defense.  It was this all-or-nothing approach that probably led a New
York jury to acquit the “subway vigilante,”  Bernhard Goetz , in
1987. Even after his first round of shots scattered the four
young men whom he said were planning to rob him, he approached
one of them, Darrell Cabey, who was sprawled on a seat near the
conductor’s cab and said: “You don’t look so bad. Here’s
another.” He then shot again, severing Cabey’s spinal cord.
Goetz might have honestly believed he had to shoot Cabey to
protect himself from death, though it was hard to see how this
could have been judged a reasonable belief.  And if it wasn’t a reasonable belief, then New York’s all-or-nothing statute would treat Goetz the same as if he shot
Cabey just to shoot him -- without any claim of self-defense.
The jury refused to do this, and instead gave Goetz the only
other option available: not guilty on all assault charges.  The Zimmerman case might have presented a similar dilemma
for the jurors. They might have found his  belief  that he, like
Goetz, needed to shoot in self-defense to be honest if
unreasonable. The jury might have thought Zimmerman deserved
some criminal liability but not that of a murderer.
Unfortunately, the Florida all-or-nothing self-defense statute,
like  New York ’s, permits only complete acquittal or murder.  The Florida authorities haven’t been ignorant of the
problem created by the statute. The prosecutor and judge tried
to override the legislature’s all-or-nothing approach by
fabricating an intermediate path -- the last-minute manslaughter
option. Setting aside whether it is proper for the judiciary to
rewrite the legislature’s statute, the court simply didn’t have
the legal tools needed to do it.  In Florida law, the manslaughter offense is meant to cover
primarily cases where a person creates only a risk of serious
injury or death -- as when you start a dangerous fire in your
backyard that accidentally burns down your neighbor’s house with
him in it. This wasn’t the case with Zimmerman, who fully
intended to shoot Martin, at close range. The offense has
 nothing  to do with imperfect self-defense.  Confusing Instructions  So it was no surprise that its inclusion in the jurors’
instructions only served to confuse them. A day into their
deliberations, the jury sent the judge a note asking for
“clarification on the instructions regarding manslaughter.”  The judge replied that she couldn’t engage in “general
discussions” on the charge, only answer specific questions from
the jury. It never submitted any.  Many all-or-nothing states refuse to allow such attempts to
jury-rig an intermediate verdict. They know that some juries
might be tempted to use this option even if it violates the
directive that self-defense be all or nothing.  Part of the tragedy in the Zimmerman case is that we can’t
know what the jurors really thought about his conduct (we will
only know what they now say they believed).  Did they a cquit  because they found Zimmerman acted in
completely reasonable self-defense? Or did they think he
committed culpable errors, but didn’t believe he was a stone-cold killer, no matter what the self-defense statute directed?  Florida and other all-or-nothing states should fix their
statutes, not by trying to fabricate intermediate verdicts, but
by expressly providing the intermediate imperfect self-defense
option that the Model Penal Code urges.  ( Paul H. Robinson  is a law professor at the  University of
Pennsylvania  and the author most recently of  “Intuitions of
Justice and the Utility of Desert.” )  To contact the writer of this article:
Paul H. Robinson at  phr@law.upenn.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 