-- Rio Quarterly Iron Ore Output Up 7%, Raises Copper Target
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-07-16T06:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/rio-tinto-quarterly-iron-ore-output-up-7-raises-copper-target.html
Rio (RIO)  Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining company, said second-quarter  iron ore  output rose
7 percent from last year, narrowly beating analyst expectations.  Production was 51.8 million metric tons in the three months
to June 30, compared with 48.6 million tons a year earlier, the
London-based company said today in a statement. That compares
with the 51.2 million ton median estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The expansion at its Australian iron ore operations to 290
million tons of annual capacity is on track to start this
quarter, Rio said today, even as it seeks to sell assets and
reduce $5 billion of costs as the cooling mining boom forces
producers to trim spending. Growth in  China , Rio’s biggest
customer, slowed for a second quarter as gains in factory output
decelerated.  “I don’t think anyone really knows where China is going to
be in a year’s time,”  Chris Weston , chief market strategist at
IG Markets in  Melbourne  said by phone. “I see the materials
sector as a good trading sector, I don’t see it as a good
investment sector.”  Rio, the second-largest iron-ore exporter behind Vale SA,
climbed after the announcement. It rose 1.4 percent to A$55.52
at the close of trade in Sydney, compared with A$55.00 before
the announcement.  The company also raised its full-year copper production
forecast following a faster than expected recovery from a land
slip at its Bingham Canyon mine in  Utah .  Evaluating Options  Rio is scheduled to report first-half earnings on Aug. 8.
Net income may drop 17 percent to $4.9 billion for the period,
according to the average of four  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  An iron ore expansion to 360 million tons, from 290 million
tons, in  Australia ’s Pilbara region is currently underway, with
Rio evaluating a number of options for the estimated $5 billion
project.  The company could achieve the growth in output by
developing new mines, or by boosting output from existing mines,
it said. The spending plan has drawn criticism from shareholders
including Evy Hambro, who manages  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s $6.9 billion
World Mining Fund.  Rio’s board is due to consider the expansion during the
fourth quarter. Rio’s capital spending will drop to about $13
billion this year from $17 billion last year, Chief Executive
Officer  Sam Walsh , who took over in January, said in May.  Productivity Improvements  Iron ore contributed $12.5 billion, or 43 percent, of Rio’s
revenue during the first half of 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Rio expects to produce about 265 million
tons of iron ore this year, it said.  “Our iron ore operations continue their impressive
performance, with period-on-period productivity improvements,”
Walsh said, according to today’s statement. “One of our key
priorities this year is to deliver our growth projects.”  Repairs at its Bingham Canyon mine were advancing better
than expected, Rio said. Full-year production of mined and
refined copper is projected to fall short of pre-slide
expectations by 100,000 tons and 75,000 tons, respectively, it
said. That’s a 25,000 ton improvement compared to estimates
provided immediately following the slide.  The wall failure occurred on April 10 and no one was hurt.
Total mined copper production for the quarter was 146,000 tons,
up 10 percent on last year, and compares with a 138,000 tons
forecast by UBS AG. In 2013,  Rio Tinto ’s share of mined and
refined copper output is expected to be about 565,000 tons and
230,000 tons, respectively.  The company made the first commercial shipments this month
from its $6.6 billion Oyu Tolgoi copper mine after months of
tension with the Mongolian government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  