-- Rudd Cuts Spending to Allow Early Australian Carbon Trading
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-07-16T04:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/rudd-cuts-spending-to-accommodate-early-australian-carbon-trade.html
Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd 
will cut spending and limit tax concessions to fund a move to
emissions trading a year ahead of schedule, should his Labor
government win this year’s election.  The carbon price, which was to be fixed at A$25.40 ($23.16)
a ton for 2014-15, will move on July 1, 2014, to a floating
price of about A$6, costing the government around A$3.8 billion
over four years, Rudd told reporters in Townsville today. At
least A$770 million will be saved by ending an energy security
fund program two years early and about A$1.8 billion will come
from changes to tax incentives relating to employer-provided
cars.  “ Australia ’s carbon price will be the same as in 31 other
nations covering a population of more than 500 million people,”
Rudd said in a statement today. “Businesses have been asking
for the early transition and the changes will reduce their input
costs and boost their competitiveness.”  Rudd had flagged changes to predecessor  Julia Gillard ’s
clean-energy policy, which left Australia with the world’s
highest carbon price and raised electricity charges, since
ousting her last month. The move may be one of his last policy
tweaks before calling an election, with polls showing he’s
erased the gap with the opposition led by  Tony Abbott , who has
pledged to ditch the carbon price system if he wins.  “This clears the decks for Rudd on an issue that’s been
damaging the party and is another step toward him calling an
election,” said  Nick Economou , a political analyst at  Monash
University  in  Melbourne . A ballot must be held by the end of
November.  Tax Changes  Along with removing fringe benefits tax concessions for
using company cars for personal use, the government plans to
eliminate about 800 senior jobs from the public service to pay
for the early transition to emissions trading. Legislation to
enable the plan would be introduced to parliament by Labor
should it win the election.  Shares in  McMillan Shakespeare Ltd. (MMS) , which provides salary
packaging and vehicle leasing administration services, fell 15
percent to A$15.36 by 10:44 a.m. in Sydney before a trading
halt. “We believe the changes if implemented will have a
material impact on the company’s business,” Chief Financial
Officer Mark Blackburn said in a statement to Australia’s stock
exchange.  Household Savings  The change will save Australian households an average of
A$380 a year through lower electricity and other prices, Rudd
said. Government assistance to industries exposed to intensive
 carbon emissions  won’t change, he said.  The fixed price on emissions for about 300 of Australia’s
largest polluters was planned by Gillard to reduce the country’s
reliance on coal and to help meet the target for a 5 percent cut
in greenhouse gas emissions from 2000 levels by 2020.  Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition also supports
Australia’s 5 percent reduction target by 2020. It would commit
as much as A$750 million to subsidize companies’ spending to
achieve that goal.  “This is not a true market,” Abbott told reporters
yesterday when asked about  emissions trading . “Just ask
yourself what an emissions trading scheme is all about. It’s a
market, a so-called market, in the non-delivery of an invisible
substance to no-one.”  Business Support  Moving toward early emissions trading would mitigate the
impact of “high energy prices and lost competitiveness,” the
Australian Industry Group, a business lobby representing about
60,000 companies, said July 15.  It would be a development “that most of the Australian
market would support,” Hugh Grossman, executive director of
carbon research company RepuTex in Melbourne, said today.
“Australian carbon prices against the rest of the world have
been a lot higher over the past couple of years.”  Gillard, who ousted Rudd in a party coup three years ago,
struck a compromise in 2011 where she agreed to set a fixed rate
for three years before starting market-based pricing in
mid-2015. Carbon pricing began at A$23 a ton in July 2012 and
rose this month to A$24.15.  EU Prices  European Union carbon futures for 2013 settled yesterday at
4.05 euros ($5.30), up 0.3 percent on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London . European prices this year have traded as
high as 6.66 euros on Jan. 7 and as low as 2.75 euros on April
17. Prices rose from this year’s lows as the European regulator
won approval for a plan to reduce an oversupply of permits by
delaying planned auctions.  Australian’s carbon price would probably trade below the EU
level for the first two to three years, with parity unlikely
until later this decade, RepuTex said separately in a statement,
as local factors like electricity generation would help shape
the Australian price.  Backing for Rudd during his first spell as Australia’s
leader waned after he postponed the introduction of a carbon-trading plan to limit  climate change , a phenomenon he’d
described as the “greatest moral and economic challenge of our
time.”  Popularity Lift  Since Rudd’s return, Labor has risen to its highest level
on a two-party preferred basis in almost nine months, according
to a Newspoll survey published July 9 in The Australian that
showed it was tied with the coalition on 50 percent.  A Fairfax-Nielsen poll published in the Sydney Morning
Herald newspaper yesterday also showed an even split in the two-party measure, designed to gauge which party is most likely to
form government under Australia’s preferential voting system.  Labor’s primary vote surged 10 percentage points to 39
percent in the poll taken July 11-13, while the coalition fell
three points to 44 percent from a month earlier. Rudd leads
Abbott as preferred prime minister, 55 percent to 41 percent.
The survey of 1,400 people had a margin of error of plus or
minus 2.6 percentage points.  “If I was Rudd I’d call the election as soon as
possible,” Economou said. “He looks to have wrong-footed
Abbott and should seek to maximize the goodwill he’s
generated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  