-- Russia’s Tatarstan Seen Losing Half of Grain Harvest to Drought
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2013-07-16T10:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/russia-s-tatarstan-seen-losing-half-of-grain-harvest-to-drought.html
Russia ’s Tatarstan Republic, the
country’s fifth largest grain-growing region, will lose half of
the 5 million metric ton grain crop it expected this season due
to drought, a private farmers union said.  A state of emergency has been declared in the republic
because of  drought  in 22 of its 43 municipalities, according to
the regional Agriculture Ministry. Tatarstan’s crop may reach
2.5 million tons at best in the 2013-14 season which started
July 1, Kamiyar Baitemirov, chairman of the regional branch of
 Russia’s Peasants and Farmers Association,  known as AKKOR, said
by phone today from Tatarstan’s capital, Kazan.  Drought has hit about 17 percent of all fields sown with
cereals to date in Russia, with Tatarstan and other regions in
the Volga Federal District the most affected, according to data
from the country’s  Agriculture Ministry . In the 2012-13 season,
drought reduced Russia’s grain crop by a quarter.  “Last year, drought did not have such consequences as this
year,” Baitemirov said. “This year, some municipal areas have
not had any rain since early spring. We will lose half of the
crop because of drought.”  Tatarstan along with other regions in the Volga Federal
District is forecast to have 30 percent less rain than on
average in July, according to the state  weather  center.
Temperatures in Tatarstan as high as 35 degrees Celsius (95
degrees Fahrenheit) together with a lack of rain made the
drought expand in the first 10 days of July, according to the
regional weather center data.  Tatarstan harvested about 3 million tons of grain last
year, according to state statistics data. The Volga area
accounted for about 21 percent of the 70.9 million tons of
grains harvested in the country last year, according to
government data.  AKKOR members include farmers’ associations representing
more than 600 private farms and 1,500 agricultural cooperatives
across Russia, which account for about 20 percent of the
national grain crop, according to the union data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  