-- Russia’s Gazprom Orders $3.7 Million Tablet Computer for CEO
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-07-16T15:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/russia-s-biggest-company-orders-3-7-million-tablet-for-ceo.html
OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s natural-gas
exporter, ordered a tablet computer for Chief Executive Officer
Alexey Miller, with a maximum price tag of 119.7 million rubles
($3.7 million) to help him run the company more efficiently.  OOO Gazprom Inform, a unit of Russia’s biggest company, has
 announced  a tender to design a tablet based on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS
operating system, that matches the functionality of Miller’s
desktop personal computer, Gazprom said in tender documentation,
posted on its website today.  The gadget should be guaranteed to start within no more
than five seconds as well as support 3G, GPRS and Wi-Fi. It will
enable daily monitoring of Gazprom’s businesses from production
to gas exports to power generation, the tender said.  The tablet should ensure information support for Miller’s
“management decision making on raising Gazprom’s efficiency
regardless of his access to the desktop computer with the use of
mobile devices.”  Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer, has fallen 13
percent this year as the company combats lower demand for the
fuel and calls from European customers to change a 40-year-old
system of linking gas prices to the price of crude. Concerns
over spending increases and lower dividend payouts have also
deterred investors, while the state-run company also faces
challenges to its global market share from future gas supplies
from Australia to the U.S.  Vladimir Putin  President  Vladimir Putin , who has vowed to fight wasteful
spending, urged Gazprom at its 20th anniversary party at the
Kremlin in February to “eliminate anything that is dragging the
company down” as well as to improve transparency and minimize
expenses.  “Even though the $3.7 million price looks a bit
exaggerated to me, it should be clear that we aren’t talking
about an iPad decorated with diamonds,” Alexander Patsay, a
Moscow-based director of program management at software
developer Parallels Inc. said by phone. “An automated work
station for a CEO,” if its integrated with server software
similar to that designed by  SAP AG (SAP) , “could be indeed quite a
complicated and costly solution.”  An external spokesman for Apple in Moscow declined to
comment and asked not to be identified in line with company
policy.  Applications to take part in the tender will be accepted
until July 22, with the results announced no later than July 31,
according to Gazprom. The winner will provide the service  from
July 31 through April 30, 2014, according to the documents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  