-- S. Africa Builders Rigged World Cup Work Margins, Documents Show
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-07-16T15:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/s-africa-builders-rigged-world-cup-work-margins-documents-show.html
Construction companies in South
Africa colluded to rig a profit margin of 17.5 percent on six
stadiums for the 2010 FIFA Soccer World Cup, the country’s
competition commission said in documents.  Grinaker-LTA,  Wilson Bayly Holmes-Ovcon Ltd. (WBO) ,  Murray &
Roberts Holdings Ltd. (MUR) , Group Five Ltd., Concor,  Basil Read
Holdings Ltd. (BSR)  and  Stefanutti Stocks Holdings Ltd. (SSK)  met twice
during or about 2006 and agreed to exchange cover prices,
allocate tenders and aim for a 17.5 percent margin, the
commission said. The details were published in documents on the
Pretoria-based competition tribunal’s  website , and also detail
companies colluding on projects ranging from roads to offices.  The tribunal is meeting tomorrow and Thursday to decide
whether to approve a 1.5 billion rand ($153 million) fine agreed
between 15 construction companies and the commission for
collusion. The fine will be the biggest collective penalty given
to companies in South Africa, Shan Ramburuth, head of the
commission, said in June. Clients may try to claw back payments
and the National Prosecuting Authority may initiate criminal
charges related to the collusion.  “We do expect that some of the project owners will try to
lodge claims against us and we will deal with it when the
situation arises,” Murray & Roberts Chief Executive Officer
Henry Laas said in a statement. “Complainants will have to
prove damages.”  The South African Local Government Association is seeking
as much as 3.9 billion rand from the construction companies.
Salga, as it is known, has asked to participate as an
“aggrieved party,” said Lance Joel, the association’s chief of
operations. “I think that it is likely that the NPA will pursue
legal action,” he said.  Aveng Ltd. (AEG)  would pay 307 million rand under the settlement,
Murray & Roberts would be fined 309 million rand, and Wilson
Bayly would pay 311 million rand, Ramburuth said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  