-- S. Africa’s Cell C Expects to Be Profitable Within Three Years
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-07-16T12:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/s-africa-s-cell-c-expects-to-be-profitable-within-three-years.html
Cell C (Pty) Ltd., South  Africa ’s
third largest wireless operator, plans to be profitable within
three years as it seeks to gain market share from larger
competitors  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  and  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD)   The mobile-phone company has added 2.5 million subscribers
in the past 12 to 15 months to give it a customer base of more
than 11.5 million in South Africa, Chief Executive Officer Alan Knott-Craig said in a phone interview today. Vodacom has a
market-leading 30.3 million South African active customers,
while MTN has almost 25 million subscribers, according to the
companies.  Cell C wants to improve its market share to between 20 and
25 percent from 12 percent now, according to Knott-Craig. “We
still need to hurry up and get that other 8 percent market
share,” he said. “Until then it’s playing catch up. The
regulatory environment is critical.”  The Independent Communications  Authority  of  South Africa 
said last month it would review mobile-phone termination rates,
the amount operators can charge to carry each other’s calls, as
part of its attempts to reduce the cost of mobile-phone use in
Africa’s largest economy. That could lead to smaller operators
paying less than the market leaders.  “The costs of communication in South Africa are still
comparatively high in relation to its Southern African and
continental peers,” the authority said in a statement in May.  Market Share  Cell C, controlled by Dubai-based Oger Telecom, hasn’t
reported financial details since  2010 , when it said full-year
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
were little changed at 1.4 billion rand ($142.6 million).  Oger Telecom, Cell C’s majority shareholder, has pledged an
equity investment of $350 million to boost the company’s
finances, Cell C said in a statement today. The sum is in
addition to a $200 million injection by Oger in 2012 and a
further “significant” amount earmarked for 2014.  “Anyone with less than 25 percent market share is going to
struggle and the only people who have more are Vodacom and
MTN,” Knott-Craig said. “That is a result of no regulation or
soft regulation. We’re just saying regulate like the rest of the
world regulates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  