-- Scientists Probing U.K. Dementia Levels Get Pleasant Surprise
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-07-16T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/scientists-probing-u-k-dementia-levels-get-pleasant-surprise.html
Science lately is painting a
surprisingly rosy picture of old age.  The prevalence of dementia has declined in the U.K. in the
past 20 years, confounding researchers’ expectations, according
to a study published in  The Lancet  today. A week ago, Danish
scientists said they’d found people surviving past the age of 90
were mentally sharper than a decade ago.  The latest study on aging found that only 6.5 percent of
the sample people interviewed in Cambridgeshire, Nottingham and
Newcastle between 2008 and 2011 showed symptoms of dementia. A
similar study conducted between 1989 and 1994 pointed to results
above 8 percent. Dementia costs the U.K. economy about 23
billion pounds ($34.7 billion) a year, according to  Alzheimer’s
Research UK .  “One interpretation of the findings is that general health
and health management has improved to the extent that it has
helped reduce dementia risk, which is encouraging,” Eric
Karran, director of research at the group, wrote in a comment
accompanying the study.  Dementia is marked by severe  memory loss  and develops
slowly. Alzheimer’s is the most common form of dementia and
patients may have trouble carrying out daily tasks and
experience changes in their personality, according to Karran’s
group.  More Women  Early education and heart-disease prevention can help while
diabetes, obesity and a lack of physical activity can have the
opposite effect, said the researchers, led by Carol Brayne of
the  Cambridge Institute of Public Health  at  Cambridge
University .  Women are more susceptible to dementia, a bias known to
researchers and confirmed in the latest study. About 7.7 percent
of women were estimated to have dementia compared with 4.9
percent of men. The researchers also found more people with
dementia lived in nursing homes than 20 years earlier.  The study, funded by the  U.K. Medical Research Council ,
consisted of interviews with 7,796 people aged 65 and older. The
researchers compared the results with those of a similar study
conducted between 1989 and 1994 in the same locations.  “This study shows individual risk is decreasing, although
the absolute number will continue to grow because the population
is aging,”  Tony Arthur , professor of nursing science at
University of East Anglia, who worked on the study, said in an
interview.  Dementia is a progressive, terminal disease and there is no
cure, Karen Harrison Dening, interim Head of Admiral Nursing at
Dementia UK, said in an interview. Some treatments can alleviate
symptoms though she advocated stress reduction and emotional
support to the patient and caregiver.  The study results will be presented at the  Alzheimer’s
Association International Conference  in  Boston  today.  The  Alzheimer’s Society  estimates there will be 1.7 million
people living in the U.K. with dementia in 2051 as baby boomers
age and risk factors such as obesity increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  