-- Cordray’s Confirmation Unleashes U.S. Consumer Bureau Powers
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-07-17T15:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/senate-nears-cordray-confirmation-to-unleash-full-cfpb-potential.html
The U.S. Senate confirmation of
 Richard Cordray  as director of the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau ends an almost three-year fight that cast a pall over the
agency created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.  The 66 to 34 vote yesterday lifts the threat of legal
challenges to the bureau’s rules and enforcement actions since
some of the agency’s powers, including those over non-bank
financial firms, take effect only under a confirmed director.
Cordray was sworn in to the office by Vice President  Joe Biden 
today, the White House said.  “The political stalemate is over,” said Senator  Elizabeth Warren , the Massachusetts Democrat who conceived the idea for
the agency and was President  Barack Obama ’s first choice to lead
it. “There is no doubt the consumer agency will survive beyond
the crib.”  Banks and financial firms opposed creation of the bureau,
which was established with the explicit aim of regulating the
kind of risky consumer financial products that contributed to
the 2008 financial crisis. Isaac Boltansky, an analyst with
Compass Point Research & Trading LLC in Washington, said he
expects the agency to remain a lightning rod for controversy.  “Cordray’s confirmation will remove a meaningful
operational cloud that has hovered over the CFPB for three
years, but there is no reason to believe that the political
rhetoric surrounding the agency will subside,” Boltansky said
in an e-mail.  Changes Sought  Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, said he would
still push for changes to the consumer bureau’s structure that
he said could come when his party is in the majority. The next
round of Senate elections are in November 2014.  “There wasn’t any way to make it happen prior to this
nomination coming up,” Corker said in an interview. “There’s a
possibility that some additional structural changes take
place.”  Senator  Jeff Merkley , an Oregon Democrat, said the Senate
deal ensures that the consumer bureau will take shape as the
authors of Dodd-Frank intended.  “For two years, since it was formed, there has been a
battle over whether it would be fully formed and become a part
of the landscape, the executive branch landscape, defending the
rights of Americans against predatory practices,” Merkley told
reporters. “That question is answered today.”  Power Curbs  Republican senators refused for more than two years to
permit a confirmation vote on Cordray, demanding that the bureau
be restructured in ways that would reduce the director’s power
and place congressional controls over the agency’s budget.  “They don’t like the fact that this first-ever financial
watchdog with the explicit mission of protecting consumers
instead of bankers is doing exactly what it is supposed to,”
said Lisa Donner, executive director of Americans for Financial
Reform, an umbrella group of labor unions, civil rights groups
and consumer advocates.  Over the last three years, Republicans accused the agency
of being unaccountable and overly powerful, spending too much
money, and collecting too much data on American consumers.  All the same, the agency remained popular with the public,
and Warren’s role in setting it up heightened the bureau’s
profile. Its positive image was in part a function of the
unpopularity of the large banks that got federal bailouts during
the financial crisis, according to a new poll by Washington-based  Lake Research Partners .  Public Support  Eight in 10 voters support the work of the CFPB, according
to the poll, which was conducted among 1,004 likely voters from
July 8 to 11, and has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1
percentage points. Public support cuts across party lines, the
poll found, with 91 percent of Democrats, 71 percent of
Republicans and 79 percent of independents backing the agency.  Through enforcement actions against companies including
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ,  American Express Co. (AXP)  and U.S.
Bancorp, the consumer bureau has returned more than $432 million
to consumers. It has also set up a system for registering
complaints with banks, student lenders, credit bureaus and debt
collectors, a tool that at least 125,000 people have used since
its inception in July 2012.  The agency has also written rules aimed at cleaning up the
mortgage market that was at the heart of the financial crisis.
The new regulations cover underwriting, servicing and loan
officer incentives.  Nominated Twice  Cordray, the agency’s first enforcement chief, was
nominated twice and waited more than 700 days for a Senate
confirmation vote. In exchange for proceeding with Cordray’s
confirmation, Obama agreed to nominate two new candidates to the
 National Labor Relations Board .  With the confirmation, the consumer bureau will be able to
exercise its full authority over large banks and certain non-bank financial firms, including payday lenders and mortgage
originators.  Richard Hunt , president of the Consumer Bankers
Association, said having a director in place for the five-year
term envisioned by Dodd-Frank means that “nothing stops the
agency” from doing what it wants.  “There is potential to overreach here, and it has nothing
to do with Cordray,” Hunt said in an interview.  Dodd-Frank gave the bureau authority to supervise banks
with more than $10 billion in assets, a group that includes
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Lafayette, Louisiana-based  Iberiabank
Corp. (IBKC)  It can also write regulations and enforce laws to protect
consumers from abusive practices.  More Activity  Michael Thurman, an attorney with Loeb & Loeb LLP in  Los
Angeles , said confirmation would “eliminate any doubts” about
the agency’s authority. Cordray, a former Ohio attorney general,
will use it, he said.  “Given that the CFPB has an extensive enforcement staff,
including numerous experienced regulatory attorneys and
paralegals, companies subject to CFPB jurisdiction should expect
that CFPB enforcement activity will substantially increase in
the immediate future,” Thurman said in an e-mail.  Obama first nominated Cordray in July 2011 after it became
clear that Warren would not win Senate confirmation. After a
first Senate procedural vote failed in December that year, Obama
installed Cordray in the director post in January 2012 using a
so-called recess appointment, which bypasses Senate
confirmation.  Court Challenge  Later this year, the  Supreme Court  is expected to hear a
legal challenge to recess appointments Obama made the same day
to the NLRB, a case that critics said could have been used to
invalidate Cordray’s appointment as well.  The pending case complicated some enforcement work begun by
the agency, impeded its search for a deputy director and slowed
the bureau’s cooperation with state attorneys general.  Representative  Jeb Hensarling , the Texas Republican who
heads the House Financial Services Committee, barred Cordray
from testifying after a federal court ruling that cast doubt on
his appointment. Yesterday, Hensarling said he’d invite Cordray
to the panel.  “His confirmation, however, does not change the fact that
the CFPB lacks the most basic semblance of accountability and
transparency that hardworking taxpayers deserve from government
agencies,” Hensarling said in a statement.  Senator  Rob Portman , an  Ohio Republican , has said he tried
to broker a deal over the past few months with Democrats to
change the bureau’s structure.  Verbal Commitment  Portman secured a verbal commitment from Cordray to testify
in front of the Senate Appropriations Committee, even though the
panel has no jurisdiction over CFPB, according to the senator’s
spokesman, Jeffrey Sadosky. Portman also said he obtained a
commitment to have CFPB rules subjected to a cost-benefit
analysis.  “Director Cordray and the staff of the CFPB are always
happy to brief members of Congress about the work of the
agency,” Jen Howard, a CFPB spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
“He told several members that the CFPB is willing to provide a
briefing on our budget, as we have done many times in the
past.”  Howard declined to comment on whether the agency would
subject its policies to cost-benefit analysis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  