-- Senators Grill Refiners Over High Prices Amid Oil Boom
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-07-16T18:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/senators-grill-refiners-over-high-prices-amid-oil-boom.html
Lawmakers grilled representatives of
oil producers and refiners seeking an explanation for a rise in
gasoline prices at the pump amid a boom in U.S. oil production.  Senators at an Energy and Natural Resources Committee
hearing today complained that fuel exports and refinery
shutdowns for maintenance cause regional price surges, while the
head of refiner  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  said local prices reflect
global shifts in crude markets and blamed higher costs on the
Renewable Fuel Standard, which mandates ethanol use.  “Our people want to know why the flood of new domestic
crude oil isn’t lowering prices at the pump,” said  Ron Wyden ,
an Oregon Democrat and chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee. “There is no question that the lower oil
costs are not getting through to Americans’ wallets.”  Advances in drilling technology, including hydraulic
fracturing, has revived U.S. oil production in states such as
 North Dakota  and  Texas , which reached 7.4 million barrels a day
in April, a two-decade high, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration.  Amid rising supplies, pump prices are rising. Gasoline
jumped to a four-month high, as unplanned refinery outages may
crimp fuel supply. Gasoline for delivery next month rose 3.17
cents, or 1 percent, to $3.1346 a gallon at 11:57 a.m. on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange.  Gasoline Rising  Regular gasoline at filling stations rose 14.7 cents in the
past week to an average $3.639 a gallon as of yesterday, the
highest since June 10, EIA said. Fuel demand is typically
strongest from the last weekend in May to the U.S. Labor Day
weekend in early September, the prime U.S. vacation period.  In recent months, planned refinery outages or emergency
shutdowns for maintenance in the West and Midwest triggered
sharp increases in gasoline prices regionally, not tied to the
global price of crude oil, lawmakers said.  “The fact that this price spike can happen without real
supply and demand disruptions is disturbing,” Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Washington Democrat, said at the hearing.  The head of the independent EIA,  Adam Sieminski , said that
supply and demand is the main determinant of pump prices. The
boom in U.S. oil production is helping to hold down global  oil
prices , and so is benefiting American consumers, Sieminski
testified. Greater U.S. exports would actually help keep
domestic prices lower by enhancing the global trend, he added.  Keystone XL  The argument failed to sway Wyden, who said the prospect of
greater exports is a reason he is skeptical of the proposed
Keystone XL pipeline, which would carry  oil sands  from  Alberta ,
 Canada , to refineries along the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico .  “There are a host of questions with regards to Keystone,
foremost of which is that most of the production is going to be
exported,” Wyden said after the hearing. The State Department
is reviewing the application of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  to build the
pipeline.  While lawmakers questioned the functioning of the U.S.
gasoline market, industry representatives said those prices
reflect movements in international crude-oil markets.  “These are commodities and they work in a global market,”
Valero Chief Executive Officer William Klesse said in an
interview after he testified. While refinery outages can cause
prices to rise, the gain doesn’t last long, as refiners are
quick to ship in fuel to take advantage of that premium, he
said: “It’s all about supply and demand, and free markets.”  Instead of focusing on refiners’ margins, Congress should
rework the Renewable Fuel Standard, mandating the use of
ethanol, because a drop in fuel use will cause the share of
ethanol to exceed the 10 percent that can be used safely by all
vehicles, he said.  “The oil supply picture has changed, the basis of the
original legislation has changed, the RFS should be repealed and
new legislation developed,” Klesse testified today. Wyden
pledged to have a separate hearing to examine issues with the
RFS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  