-- Snowden Bows to Putin’s Demand to Stop Harming U.S.
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-07-16T13:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/snowden-bows-to-putin-s-demand-to-stop-harming-u-s-.html
Fugitive U.S. ex-security contractor
Edward Snowden has agreed to  Russia ’s demand that he stop anti-American activity and asked for temporary asylum, a Russian
lawyer advising him said.  Snowden “confirmed to me personally that he will accept
these conditions,” Anatoly Kucherena said by phone today. Asked
if that meant the American would stop leaking secret U.S.
documents, the lawyer replied, “yes.”  The 30-year-old, who exposed classified U.S. programs that
collect telephone and Internet data, lodged his bid for
temporary asylum earlier today at Moscow’s Sheremetyevo Airport,
said Kucherena, who assisted him with the application. President
Vladimir Putin yesterday accused the U.S. of stranding Snowden
in Moscow by putting pressure on other countries to prevent his
travel through their airspace and deny him refuge.  Snowden’s presence in Russia has heightened tensions with
the U.S. less than two months before Putin and President  Barack Obama  are due to hold a summit in Moscow ahead of a meeting of
Group of 20 nations.  The fugitive has been in Sheremetyevo’s transit area since
arriving on a flight from  Hong Kong  on June 23. He’s been
seeking asylum around the world as U.S. authorities press for
his return to face prosecution. While Venezuela, Nicaragua and
 Bolivia  have indicated they’d be willing to take him, Snowden
said the U.S. and its European allies are blocking him from
reaching a safe haven.  Putin’s Condition  Snowden’s previous request for asylum in Russia was
withdrawn 24 hours later after Putin insisted Snowden stop
“anti-American” activities. The Russian leader is aware of the
new application, which will be handled by the appropriate
officials, his spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , told reporters today in
the eastern Siberian city of Chita.  While Russian immigration authorities can take as much as
half a year to rule on a bid for political asylum, temporary
refuge can be granted within days or within three months at the
most, Kucherena told state television channel Rossiya 24.  “Because Snowden is fed up with being in the transit zone,
he’s chosen this path,” the lawyer said. “His intention is to
stay in Russia for the time being.”  Temporary asylum is valid for 12 months, after which it can
be renewed indefinitely each year, and allows its holder to
travel freely and work in Russia, according to Kucherena.  Snowden’s Future  The Federal Migration Service will consider Snowden’s
application within the legal timeframe, spokeswoman Zalina
Kornilova said by phone. Snowden may be transferred to a center
for asylum seekers or remain in the transit zone, Interfax
reported, citing the head of the migration authority’s advisory
council, Vladimir Volokh.  Snowden’s intention is still eventually to reach a third
country if he can obtain safe passage, Kristinn Hrafnsson, a
spokesman for anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks, which has helped the
fugitive American, said by phone from Reykjavik. Hrafnsson
declined to comment on the reported pledge to stop revealing
classified U.S. information.  Snowden, a former worker for government contractor  Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , has been charged with three
felonies in connection with the disclosure of top-secret U.S.
National Security Agency programs that collect phone and
Internet data.  In his asylum application, he listed the fear that he’ll
face torture or the death penalty if he’s brought back to the
U.S., Kucherena said, according to state news service RIA
Novosti.  Snowden doesn’t face the death penalty under the espionage
and theft charges the U.S. has brought against him. Each of
three counts has a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Chita, Russia at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  