-- South African Yellow Corn Gains on Drought Concerns in the U.S.
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-07-16T13:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/south-african-yellow-corn-gains-on-drought-concerns-in-the-u-s-.html
South African yellow corn futures
gained the most in almost two weeks as warm weather conditions
in the U.S. made the crop there deteriorate, while plants are
maturing at a slower-than-average pace.  Yellow corn for delivery in September, the most active
contract, rose 1.7 percent to 2,226.60 rand ($228) a metric ton,
the most since July 3, by the close in Johannesburg. The white
variety for delivery in December, increased 1.9 percent to 2,376
rand a ton.  Sixty-six percent of corn crops in the main growing areas
in the U.S. were  rated  good or excellent as of July 14, down
from 68 percent that received the top ratings a week earlier,
the U.S. Department of Agriculture said yesterday. Sixteen
percent had reached the silking  stage , critical for determining
yields, compared with 35 percent of crops on average that had
reached that phase by this time in the past five years.  “Corn went up today due to the fact that the good to
excellent crop conditions rating decreased,” Benjamin Swanepoel, a trader at Trademar Futures (Pty) Ltd., said
referring to the USDA report in an e-mailed statement from
Johannesburg. “This created concerns over the impact the recent
dry and hot weather will have on the crop and as such prices
moved up.”  South Africa exported 84,537 tons of the yellow grain to
 Japan  in the week to July 12, Pretoria-based South African Grain
Information Service said in a statement on its website. There
are concerns that if more of the yellow variety is shipped, the
country will see the grain being substituted with the white
variety for animal feed.  South Africa is the continent’s largest producer of corn.
Meal made from the white variety is a staple food, while yellow
corn is mainly used as animal feed.  Wheat for delivery in December increased 0.6 percent to
3,370 rand a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  