-- SPH REIT Said to Raise $400 Million in Initial Public Offering
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-07-16T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/sph-reit-said-to-raise-400-million-in-initial-public-offering.html
Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. (SPH) , the
newspaper publisher that owns the Paragon mall along the city’s
shopping belt, raised S$504 million ($400 million) in an initial
public offering of its retail assets, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  SPH REIT sold 559.9 million units at 90  Singapore  cents,
the high end of a marketed range of 85 Singapore cents to 90
Singapore cents, the people said, asking not to be named as the
information is private. The sale can be increased by as much as
56 million units, according to a prospectus filed last week.  The real estate investment trust is competing for investors
with an offering by property company  Overseas Union Enterprise
Ltd.  that includes a downtown Singapore hotel and mall. With
investors seeking high-yielding assets, trusts have been the
most active fundraisers in Singapore in the past year.  At 90 cents a unit, SPH REIT is offering a yield of 5.79
percent based on fiscal 2014 projections, according to the
prospectus. The company had commitments from investors including
Great Eastern Life Assurance Co. and Morgan Stanley Investment
Management Co. for nearly half the shares sold, it said in the
document.  Singapore Press said in an e-mail that it's unable to 
comment on the REIT's pricing.  Overseas Union, which is seeking as much as S$614 million
for its REIT, will offer a yield of as much as 7.5 percent based
on earnings projections for 2014, it  said  last week. The FTSE
Strait Times RE Invest Trust Index, tracking 28 REITs in
Singapore, offers a 4.8 percent dividend yield.  Overseas Union plans to set a price for its sale this week.  Singapore Press said in May it will hold about 70 percent
of the REIT after it goes public, and the proceeds will fund the
group’s growth and a special dividend.  Credit Suisse Group AG, DBS Group Holdings Ltd. and
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. managed the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  