-- U.A.E. Banks, RBI Fines, Danes’ Free-for-All: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-07-16T12:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/u-a-e-banks-rbi-fines-danes-free-for-all-compliance.html
Banks in the United Arab Emirates
are seeking five years to comply with a central bank regulation
to limit their exposure to government entities in the second-biggest Arab economy.  The banks are also seeking to exclude marketable bonds and
sukuks from the proposal, according to an e-mailed statement
yesterday from the  U.A.E. Banks Federation .  The central bank said in April 2012 that banks must not
lend more than 100 percent of their capital to local governments
and the same amount to government-related entities to help
reduce risk, and must comply with the new regulations by Sept.
30, 2012. There was no limit under previous rules. The central
bank in December delayed implementing the regulations.  Many U.A.E. banks experienced an increase in bad loans
linked to debt restructuring by state-owned businesses including
Dubai World, which roiled global markets in 2009 with its
request to delay payments on $25 billion of loans.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) ’s investments in sovereign and quasi-sovereign clients is 192 percent of regulatory capital, while
that of  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC  is 199 percent,
according to estimates from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  last April.  The banks federation said yesterday that the central bank
postponed the September deadline to allow lenders to “study,
evaluate” the new rules and to revert back to the regulator
with a final proposal.  Compliance Policy  Denmark Invites Bank Free-for-All in Rules Fight Over Easing  Denmark’s central bank is inviting financial instability by
urging the nation’s lenders to ignore a European rule easing how
risks for small- and medium-sized business loans are calculated,
an industry group said.  Encouraging the banks to be tougher than the directive on
SME loans would open the door to them underestimating risks
elsewhere, Michael Friis, head of prudential regulation at the
 Danish Bankers Association , said in an interview.  The central bank in June told lenders to disregard a
section of the capital requirements directive -- approved by
European lawmakers last month -- that reduces risk weights by 24
percent because implementing it would  weaken  Denmark’s financial
system. Access to credit remains high in a historical
perspective, Deputy Governor Hugo Frey Jensen said last month.  Denmark’s financial industry has yet to recover from a
lending glut in the last decade that has sunk more than a dozen
banks and forced at least another 12 to merge.  Europe’s economic slump has led lawmakers to embrace
measures once considered taboo in the wake of the financial
crisis. Denmark in March proposed bundling and selling small
business loans as the stigma of securitization fades.  For more, click here.  China Regulator Said to Start Electronic Wealth Product Registry  China’s banking regulator told lenders to register all
wealth management products they sell and distribute on a
centralized electronic system to improve tracking, said two
people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Banks were told late last month to register products sold
since 2011 on the database run by  China Securities Depository
and Clearing Co. , said the people, who asked not to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak publicly
about the matter.  The  China Banking Regulatory Commission  has tightened rules
on the high-yielding savings vehicles on concerns they’ve lent
client money to borrowers that won’t be able to repay debt as
the nation’s economy slows.  Chinese banks had previously been required to report sales
of wealth management products to local branches of the banking
regulator, the people said. The Wall Street Journal reported the
use of the electronic platform yesterday.  Compliance Action  India Central Bank Imposes $8.3 Million in Fines for 22 Lenders  India’s central bank  ordered  22 financial firms including
 State Bank of India  and Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit to pay a
combined $8.3 million in penalties for flouting rules including
anti-money laundering regulations.  State Bank, the nation’s largest lender by assets, will be
fined 30 million rupees ($501,000), while Deutsche Bank will
need to pay 10 million rupees, the Reserve Bank of India said in
a statement on its website yesterday. Another seven banks were
sent notices to ensure compliance with the norms.  The Reserve Bank in June had separately penalized  HDFC Bank
Ltd. (HDFCB) , the country’s biggest by market value,  Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB)  and
 ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  for flouting the rules. Axis was ordered to pay
50 million rupees at that time, and HDFC Bank 45 million rupees,
with ICICI at 10 million rupees. Yesterday, the largest fine was
levied against the government-controlled  Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) ,
at 30.02 million rupees.  Banks in India are running a nationwide “money laundering
racket,” violating multiple rules including tax and banking
regulations, website Cobrapost reported on March 14. The banking
regulator is investigating the allegations and appropriate
action will be taken against those lenders that breached rules,
central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao had said at a press
conference on May 3.  Cautionary letters were issued to seven banks - State Bank
of Patiala and the local units of  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  - after the
central bank’s scrutiny didn’t expose any “serious” violations
or the firms’ explanations were found to be “satisfactory,”
the RBI said yesterday. The regulator didn’t impose monetary
penalties on the seven lenders.  Swinton Fined $11.2 Million for Mis-Selling Insurance in U.K.  The U.K. markets regulator fined Swinton Group Ltd. 7.4
million pounds ($11.2 million) for mis-selling personal
accident, home emergency and car breakdown insurance policies.  The Financial Conduct Authority found that Swinton didn’t
give customers enough information about the terms of the
policies and didn’t sufficiently monitor its sales calls.
Swinton set aside 11.2 million pounds to repay customers who
were mis-sold insurance, the regulator said in a statement
today.  “Swinton acknowledges the shortcomings in its sales
practices during this period, and the company unreservedly
apologizes to customers,” the insurer said in a statement. It
has contacted more than 650,000 customers who may be entitled to
redress and paid out 1.9 million pounds so far, it said.  China Widens Drugmaker Probe as Glaxo Bribery Charges Outlined  China is investigating at least four multinational
drugmakers as it widens its probe of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ,
according to a lawyer in  Hong Kong  whose firm advises companies
on cross-border anti-corruption.  The investigations point to an increased targeting of the
pharmaceutical industry in corruption probes as the world’s most
populous country faces rising health-care costs and seeks to
lower drug prices. While the drugmakers are being examined by
local regulators, the results may draw added questions from
officials in Beijing and scrutiny by the U.S. government under
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Wendy Wysong, the head of anti-corruption practice in Asia-Pacific at law firm  Clifford Chance , said the firm is aware of
four companies facing investigation. She declined to identify
the companies.  Yesterday, Chinese officials said Glaxo used travel
agencies as a conduit for bribes, that company executives
received “sexual bribes,” and that other drugmakers have
transferred money to the agencies.  Gao Feng, head of the economic crimes investigations unit
at China’s Public Security Ministry would not identify the other
companies linked financially to the travel agencies at a news
conference, saying only that people should ask the companies
whether they “sleep well” at night. His comments were unusual,
given that Chinese police rarely speak publicly to foreign media
about ongoing investigations. The Glaxo case, Gao said, included
bribes that went to “government officials, medical
associations, hospitals and doctors.”  China, the world’s fastest-growing market for medicines,
has become an important target for the pharmaceutical industry
as more and more best-selling therapies have gone off patent.  The Glaxo probe is a result of police investigations, not a
whistle-blower’s complaint, Gao said at the press conference.  For more, click here.  Courts  First Brokers Charged in Global Criminal Libor-Rigging Probe  Two former RP Martin Holdings Ltd. employees in London
became the first brokers to face criminal prosecution in the
global probe of manipulation of the London interbank offered
rate.  Terry Farr, 41, and James Gilmour, 48, were charged with
conspiracy to defraud at a London police station yesterday, the
U.K. Serious Fraud Office said in an e-mailed statement. Farr
and Gilmour, both from Essex, are the second and third suspects
to be charged in the U.K. investigation.  The brokers were arrested in December along with Tom Hayes,
the former UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. trader. Hayes was charged
with eight counts of conspiracy to defraud by the SFO last
month. Hayes, who remains free on bail, is charged with working
with employees at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Rabobank Groep and Deutsche Bank
AG, as well as  Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR) ,  ICAP Plc (IAP)  and RP Martin over a
four-year period to manipulate yen Libor rates.  Hayes has also been charged by the U.S. Justice Department,
which is running a parallel criminal investigation.  Farr and Gilmour are scheduled to appear at a London
criminal court at a later date, the SFO said.  Andrew Honnor, a spokesman for RP Martin, declined to
comment.  Court Rejects Nomura Asset Seizure Amid Doubt on Paschi Fraud  An Italian appeals court rejected a request to seize assets
from  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , accused by prosecutors of colluding
with some executives of  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  to
hide losses.  Two former bank executives, who prosecutors claim were
tricked by Nomura, and other former Paschi managers, knew of a
connection between its 2009 restructuring of an investment that
was losing money and the purchase of Italian bonds through
Nomura, judges at the court in Siena wrote in their ruling.  Losses from derivatives prompted Monte Paschi to seek state
aid of 4.1 billion euros ($5.4 billion) in February. Prosecutors
had sought authorization to seize as much as 1.95 billion euros
of Nomura assets, consisting mostly of funds pledged by Monte
Paschi to Nomura as security for the derivatives contracts and
deposited in Germany.  A spokesman for Nomura declined to comment. Siena
prosecutors declined to comment. An official for the Bank of
Italy declined to comment.  Interviews  Tarullo Says QE Tapering Would Depend on Economic Gains  Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  talked about
central bank monetary policy, the U.S. economy and financial
regulation.  Tarullo spoke with Politico Chief Economic Correspondent
Ben White in Washington.  For the video, click here.  Loss In Tourre Case May Hurt SEC’s Image, Barofsky Says  Neil Barofsky , former special inspector for the U.S.
Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program and a Bloomberg
contributing editor, talked about the start yesterday of the
fraud trial for Fabrice Tourre, the ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
vice president, on allegations he misled investors.  For the video, click here.  iCrowd’s McGee says Crowdfunding an ‘Emotional Return’  Brad McGee iCrowd’s McGee says Crowdfunding an ‘Emotional
Return’ iCrowd’s McGee says Crowdfunding an ‘Emotional Return’  Brad McGee, founding partner at iCrowd and former chief
strategy officer at  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC) , discussed
crowdfunding, in which individuals instead of banks or
institutional investors raise funds for a business venture.  McGee talked with Bloomberg’s Pimm Fox and  Carol Massar  on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking Stock.”  For the audio, click here.  Brad McGee, founding partner at iCrowd and former chief
strategy officer at Tyco International Ltd., discussed
crowdfunding, in which individuals instead of banks or
institutional investors raise funds for a business venture.  McGee talked with Bloomberg’s Pimm Fox and Carol Massar on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking Stock.”  For the audio, click here. , founding partner at iCrowd and
former chief strategy officer at Tyco International Ltd.,
discussed crowdfunding, in which individuals instead of banks or
institutional investors raise funds for a business venture.  McGee talked with Bloomberg’s Pimm Fox and Carol Massar on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking Stock.”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  Nominees Deal Eludes Senators as Reid Warns of Rule Change  The Senate is nearing showdown votes over seven
presidential nominees even as leaders seek a last-minute deal to
avoid a change to the chamber’s filibuster rules threatened by
Democrats.  Senators reported no agreement after Democrats and
Republicans met privately for three and a half-hours tonight on
the nominations of  Richard Cordray  to run the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau and nominees for the National Labor Relations
Board. Republicans have pledged to block them.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
that without a deal, votes will begin this morning on the
nominees, starting with Cordray. Reid is threatening to employ
the so-called “nuclear option,” a unilateral rule change to
prevent the minority from blocking the president’s executive
appointments. He said at least 51 Democrats back such a move.  The partisan rancor over seven of President Barack Obama’s
nominees could prompt gridlock in the Senate and at regulatory
agencies. A rule change by Democrats may make it difficult in
coming months for lawmakers to agree on raising the U.S. debt
ceiling and enacting a new immigration law.  Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell ’s spokesman, Don Stewart,
said in an e-mailed statement that a “clear bipartisan majority
in the meeting believed the leaders ought to find a solution.
And discussions will continue.”  Several Republicans said they made suggestions for
resolving the dispute. Senator Rob Portman of Ohio said he spoke
with Democratic leaders and proposed strengthening oversight of
the consumer bureau in exchange for allowing a vote on Cordray,
something Durbin said he would oppose.  Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, said that also
under discussion was substituting two new NLRB nominees to
replace the two who were installed by the president as recess
appointees.  Ex-FTC Commissioner Appointed to New U.K. Antitrust Committee  Bill Kovacic, a former commissioner at the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission, was appointed as a non-executive director at
the soon-to-be-created antitrust regulator, the  U.K. Competition
and Markets Authority .  Kovacic and four other non-executive directors were
appointed to the watchdog’s board, the U.K.’s Business
Secretary, Vince Cable, said yesterday in a  statement . The CMA,
which is scheduled to begin operating on April 1, 2014, will
combine the Competition Commission and some of the antitrust
functions of the Office of Fair Trading.  Philip Lowe , the director general for energy at the
European Commission, Carolyn Fairbairn, a non-executive director
for Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Alan Giles, a non-executive
director for the Office of Fair Trading, and Annetje Ottow, head
of the Authority for Consumers and Markets Academy in the
Netherlands, were also named non-executive directors at the CMA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  