-- U.K. Fraud Office Payoff to Ex-CEO Ruined Morale, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   N i c o l e   M o r t i m e r
-- 2013-07-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/u-k-fraud-office-payoff-to-ex-ceo-ruined-morale-lawmakers-say.html
The U.K.  Serious Fraud Office ’s
morale and reputation was hurt because of severance payments its
former director made to outgoing executives of more than 437,000
pounds ($660,000), lawmakers said.  The agency’s former director,  Richard Alderman , gave the
former chief executive officer, Phillippa Williamson, a 422,000
pound pay-off last year, and Chris Bailes, its former chief
operating officer, 15,000 pounds in severance pay, a U.K.
parliamentary committee said in a report published today.
Alderman didn’t seek approval from the Treasury Department for
any of the payments.  “The reputation of the Serious Fraud Office has been
undermined by a catalog of errors and poor judgment and the
morale of its staff has suffered,” Richard Bacon, a member of
the Committee of Public Accounts, said in a statement.  Alderman, who stepped down in April last year, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
committee’s report. The SFO is considering the report and its
recommendations, Susan Givens, a spokeswoman for the agency,
said in an e-mail.  While Williamson worked at the SFO, she was also paid about
100,000 pounds between 2008 and 2012 to cover the expense of
traveling to  London  from her home in  England ’s Lake District and
staying in a hotel for three days a week.  Williamson was previously the subject of an internal
whistle-blower investigation at the agency over allegations made
by staff members of improper conduct within the SFO relating to
her pay, two people familiar with the complaint said at the
same. The probe found no evidence of wrongdoing, according to
the Attorney General’s office.  The SFO’s current director,  David Green , should “explore
all possibilities to minimize the cost to the taxpayer,
including requesting that the recipients of special severance
payments repay the money,” Bacon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Mortimer in London at 
 nmortimer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  