-- China’s Treasuries Holdings Hit Record as Investors Sell
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-07-16T20:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/u-s-net-outflow-of-long-term-securities-rises-to-27-2-billion.html
China ’s holdings of U.S.  Treasuries (BUSY) 
rose to a record in May even as net selling by private foreign
investors in notes and bonds reached an all-time high,
government data showed.  China stayed the biggest foreign owner of Treasuries as its
holdings increased by $25.2 billion to $1.316 trillion,
according to Treasury Department data released yesterday in
 Washington . Japan, the second-largest holder, cut its holdings
to $1.11 trillion. The net long-term portfolio investment
outflow was $27.2 billion after a revised decline of $21.8
billion the prior month.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note reached a two-month
high in May as speculation the  Federal Reserve  may consider
tapering its unprecedented bond-purchase program crimped demand
for the securities at the same time the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index increased to a record. China has increased its holdings of
long-term  U.S. government debt  in seven of the past eight months
of available figures.  “Foreign central banks found the levels and the
opportunity to buy Treasuries more attractive than private
accounts,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT
Capital Group LLC in  Stamford , Connecticut. “The month of May
was characterized by a sharp sell-off,” so “some overseas
markets were taking advantage of some higher-yielding Treasuries
to add some additional duration exposure.”  U.S. residents bought a net $27.2 billion in foreign long-term securities, while non-government investors abroad were net
sellers of a record $29 billion of Treasury bonds and notes, the
report showed.  Official Purchases  Net buying by official entities of long-term Treasuries
totaled $40.3 billion, according to the report, leaving net
Treasury purchases for the month of $11.3 billion after
factoring in private net selling, according to the data.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note is 2.53 percent late
yesterday in New York, up from 1.63 percent on May 1.  The  S&P 500 Index  rose 2.1 percent in May, the seventh
straight monthly advance, before falling 1.5 percent last month.
Investors in U.S. Treasuries lost 1.94 percent in May, the
biggest monthly drop in data going back to 2010, according to
Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge of the greenback’s
value against 10 major currencies weighted by liquidity and
trade flows, rose 2.7 percent.  Including short-term securities such as stock swaps, the
total cross-border inflow was $56.4 billion in May, compared
with a $28.3 billion gain the prior month, the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  