-- U.S. Credit Swaps Rise; Goldman Sachs Sells $2.5 Billion of Debt
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-16T21:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-hold-near-lowest-level-in-six-weeks.html
A benchmark of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose from its lowest level in more than six weeks before
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s congressional
testimony tomorrow on stimulus measures that have bolstered bond
markets.  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. sold $2.5 billion of debt
after reporting profits that beat analysts’ estimates.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1
basis point to a mid-price of 78 basis points at 4:49 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure
closed yesterday at 77.1 basis points, the lowest since May 30.  Investors are looking to Bernanke for indications of when
the U.S. central bank may begin to reduce $85 billion in monthly
asset purchases that sent borrowing costs to record lows this
year. The Fed chairman’s testimony is due for release at 8:30
a.m. in  Washington  before he delivers his semi-annual policy
report to the Senate Banking Committee.  “You won’t see much conviction going into Bernanke’s
comments,”  Adrian Miller , the head of fixed-income strategy at
GMP Securities LLC in New York, said in a telephone interview.
As credit swaps have declined since the end of June, “you’re
close to reaching an equilibrium point,” he said.  The swaps index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Accommodative Policy  The investment-grade swaps measure has fallen from 86.6 on
July 5, when the Labor Department reported the world’s largest
economy added 195,000 jobs last month.  Bernanke said July 10 that “highly accommodative monetary
policy for the foreseeable future is what’s needed in the  U.S.
economy ,” when responding to a question after a speech in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts . Company bond yields have risen to 4.08
percent yesterday from a record low 3.35 percent on May 2,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate &
High Yield Index.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 3 basis points to 373.7 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show. The measure closed yesterday at its lowest level
since May 27.  Goldman Sachs sold the 2.9 percent notes due 2018, which
are expected to be rated A3 by Moody’s Investors Service, to
yield 155 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Double  The firm said today that earnings doubled on a surge in
underwriting revenue and gains from its own investments. Second-quarter  net income  rose to $1.93 billion, or $3.70 a share, from
$962 million, or $1.78, a year earlier. That beat the $2.89
average estimate of 27 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Royal Bank of Canada , the nation’s largest lender by
assets, raised $1.75 billion with an issue of three-year, U.S.
dollar-denominated covered bonds. The 1.125 percent notes are
expected to be rated Aaa by Moody’s, Bloomberg data show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 4.1 basis points to 544.2 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Parry  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net  