-- Muirfield British Open Returns All-Male Golf Clubs to Spotlight
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-07-16T14:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/muirfield-british-open-returns-all-male-golf-clubs-to-spotlight.html
Less than a year after Augusta
National Golf Club admitted its first female members, the
subject of all-male clubs hosting major tournaments has
resurfaced at the British Open.  Golf’s oldest championship begins in two days at Muirfield
in Gullane,  Scotland , one of three courses in the Open rotation
that don’t allow women members, a stance Scotland’s highest-ranked government official labeled “indefensible in the 21st
century.”  Augusta National, home of the  Masters Tournament  each April
in Augusta,  Georgia , invited former U.S. Secretary of State
 Condoleezza Rice  and Darla Moore, a Rainwater Inc. financier, to
join its ranks in August, ending almost a decade of scrutiny
over its all-male membership. The move was lauded by many,
including  Tiger Woods , the first black golfer to win the
Masters, who said it was “the right timing.”  Woods refused to discuss Muirfield’s membership at a news
conference today, where he was asked if there was any moral
difference between clubs that exclude people for gender rather
than for race.  “I don’t make the policies here,” the 14-time major
champion said. “I’m not a member, so I’m not going to speak for
the club.”  The Royal & Ancient Golf Club, which runs the British Open
and also has a men-only membership policy, has defended the
decision to return to Muirfield for the 16th time.  Peter Dawson ,
chief executive of the R&A, cited U.K. law allowing for single-sex clubs, as long as they abide by the equality act in relation
to access for all guests.  ‘Bullying Position’  “To think that the R&A might say to a club like Muirfield,
‘You’re not going to have the Open any more unless you change
your policy,’ frankly is a bullying position that we would never
take,” Dawson said in a meeting with reporters in April.  Muirfield, formally known as the Honourable Company of
Edinburgh Golfers, issued a statement yesterday saying it
welcomes women to play “year round with full use of the
facilities as will be the case throughout the championship.” It
also noted it’s hosted many women’s events.  “As a club we conform to the Equality Act 2010 and any
change in the membership would be for the members to decide,”
the club said in the statement. “At this moment there are no
plans to change the current membership status.”  Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond  won’t be attending the
Open this year to protest Muirfield’s membership. Salmond, who
played with  Phil Mickelson  at last week’s Scottish Open pro-am,
said it was “indefensible in the 21st century not to have a
golf club that’s open to all.”  “We want to see golf as an open, accessible game, open to
all, male, female, young, middle-aged, old, geriatric,
infants,” Salmond said during a press conference at the
Scottish Open.  Other Clubs  Salmond did attend the 2011 Open at Royal St. George’s in
 England , which, along with Royal Troon in Scotland, are the
other all-male clubs in the championship rotation. He said he
wasn’t aware of that club’s membership policy.  The Honourable Company of Edinburgh Golfers was founded in
1744 and moved to Muirfield in 1891. It’s one of the most
exclusive clubs in the world, where major champions even have a
hard time finding a game outside of tournaments.  “It’s probably more difficult to get a round of golf at
Muirfield than any place in the world,” Paul Azinger, the 1993
U.S. PGA Championship winner who will work as a commentator for
ESPN’s Open telecasts in the U.S., said on a conference call
last week. “I don’t think I can play there unless a member
invited me specifically.”  Andy North, a two-time U.S. Open champion, said he’s
experienced that exclusivity first-hand.  After Hours  In 1980, hours after  Tom Watson  won the third of his five
Claret Jugs at Muirfield, North was in a group of golfers who
went back onto the course, where Ben Crenshaw challenged the new
champion to a competition.  “After two holes the secretary of the club found out we
were out there, came out and kicked us all off the golf
course,” North said on the ESPN conference call. “And this is
somebody who had won the championship there.”  Dawson and fellow R&A members will hold their annual Open
press conference tomorrow and probably face more questions on
the membership. It’s not one of his favorite topics.  “I don’t deny my job would be made a lot easier if this
issue didn’t exist,” Dawson said in April. “But one might
choose to respect the wishes of members of these clubs, which
are virtually unanimous in a place like  St. Andrews , that the
status quo works extremely well for them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at Muirfield through the London sports desk at +44-   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 