-- Urbi Loses Bid to Dismiss Barclays Suit Over Derivatives
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-07-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/urbi-loses-bid-to-dismiss-barclays-suit-over-derivatives.html
Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB, a
Mexican real-estate developer, failed to persuade a  New York 
judge to dismiss a suit over financial derivatives filed by
 Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Barclays’s Mexican unit sued Urbi for breach of contract in
state court in  Manhattan , saying the builder failed to pay $3
million that was due March 15 after the bank had to terminate a
2010 swaps and derivatives agreement.  Barclays Bank  Mexico  SA said in a complaint filed April 8
that it ended the agreement after Urbi didn’t post additional
collateral in January “to cover potential losses relating to
open transactions with the bank.” Urbi owes the Barclays unit
$11.6 million, according to the complaint.  Urbi had asked state Supreme Court Justice Shirley Werner Kornreich in Manhattan to dismiss the suit for lack of personal
jurisdiction, saying it’s based on a transaction between two
Mexican companies that’s governed by  English law . Kornreich
denied the request, saying that the parties chose New York as
the venue for legal disputes over the agreement.  “When the parties actually engaged in meaningful
negotiations over where this lawsuit should be venued, they
specifically picked this court,” Kornreich said. “Ultimately,
the parties’ intent governs the court’s interpretation of their
agreement.”  Arthur Steinberg, an attorney at King & Spalding LLP in New
York representing Urbi, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail
message seeking comment on the ruling.  Urbi faces lawsuits from banks including Credit Suisse
Group AG and Deutsche Bank AG on defaulted loans and missed
payments. Mexico’s third-largest homebuilder by sales has seen
its cash flow plunge as the nation shifted housing policy to
favor urban apartment developments over single-family homes in
outlying areas, requiring greater initial investment.  Urbi, based in Mexicali, Mexico, said May 6 it won’t make
make an interest payment of 3.9 million pesos ($320,039) on
notes due in 2014. The company’s sales plunged 85 percent to 468
million pesos in the first quarter as it limited operations and
hired Rothschild as a financial adviser to consider a debt
restructuring. Its cash and cash equivalents fell 95 percent in
the first quarter from the previous quarter.  The case is Barclays Bank Mexico SA v.  Urbi Desarrollos
Urbanos SAB (URBI*)  de CV, 651226/2013, New York State Supreme Court,
New York County (Manhattan). The other cases are Credit Suisse
International v. Urbi, 651318/2013, and Deutsche Bank AG v.
Urbi, 651676/2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  