-- Vivus Sued by First Manhattan Over Certification of Vote
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-07-16T20:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/vivus-sued-by-first-manhattan-over-certification-of-vote.html
Vivus Inc. (VVUS) ’s largest shareholder,
First  Manhattan  Co., asked a Delaware judge to certify results
of an incomplete vote by the company’s shareholders, claiming it
had enough votes to win its proxy fight.  Vivus, maker of the obesity drug Qsymia, solicited proxies
for an annual meeting set for yesterday and adjourned the
meeting July 14, purportedly to correct misleading statements
from the dissident investor, according to the complaint filed
today in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  Vivus directors’ “transparent attempt to entrench
themselves in office” violates Delaware law, First Manhattan
said in the complaint. First Manhattan, a New York-based
investment firm with 9.9 percent of Vivus’s shares outstanding,
nominated nine directors to replace the  Mountain View ,
California-based company’s entire board.  First Manhattan asked a judge to block the directors from
soliciting proxies and order election officials to certify the
votes that were present. In a later statement today, the
investor said it continues to seek a settlement with Vivus,
offering the drugmaker three seats on the board if all nine of
the First Manhattan nominees are elected.  “After a hard fought proxy fight, as of Sunday, July 14,
2013, FMC was poised to deliver sufficient votes at the annual
meeting to replace the incumbent directors with its nominees,”
First Manhattan said in its complaint.  Vivus Delay  Vivus said in a July 14 statement that it was delaying the
meeting until July 18 after reporting comments to the Securities
and Exchange Commission by First Manhattan advisers that the
drugmaker says were misleading.  “The reason for the adjournment was to provide our
stockholders the additional time necessary to consider accurate
information and make informed voting decisions that are not
tainted by the false and misleading statements made by FMC,”
Peter Tam, president of Vivus, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. The company wasn’t immediately available to comment
today.  First Manhattan also has said it would replace Chief
Executive Officer Leland Wilson. The investor has criticized
Vivus’s strategy to sell Qsymia, which was approved in July 2012
by the  Food and Drug Administration , and said the board hasn’t
acted independently.  Vivus lost more than half its market value in the 12 months
ended in June as initial sales of Qsymia, coming in at $4.1
million in the first quarter, disappointed investors.      The
shares rebounded 17 percent in the two weeks ended July 12 as
investors speculated the dissidents may gain ground.  Vivus declined less than 1 percent to $14.40 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time.  The case is First Manhattan Co. v. Vivus Inc., CA8731,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  