-- Women-Owned Small Businesses Snubbed by U.S. Energy Department
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-07-16T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/women-owned-small-businesses-snubbed-by-u-s-energy-department.html
The U.S. Energy Department is almost
a blackout for women-owned small businesses.  Those companies attracted about 1 percent, or $305 million,
of direct contracts in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30 -- making
the department the worst performer in that area among the top 10
federal contracting agencies, according to data from the U.S.
Small Business Administration.  Most of the Energy Department’s $25 billion in direct
awards last year went to top vendors such as  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) , Bechtel Group Inc.,  URS Corp. (URS)  and Babcock & Wilcox Co.  “We’re out there. We’re waving our arms,” said Jennifer
Dickerson, owner of EnRep Inc., an Orlando, Florida-based
company that provides environmental and safety consulting
services. “We’re ready, but the department isn’t ready.”  The Obama administration stepped in two years ago to help
boost women by allowing agencies to set aside contracts for
their small businesses. The effort hasn’t gone far at the Energy
Department, which reserved six of more than 13,000 awards for
such companies last year. The National Aeronautics and Space
Administration has also struggled, setting aside just one.  The set-aside program is still going through a “ramp-up
period,” Michele Chang, deputy chief of staff for the U.S.
Small Business Administration, said in a phone interview.  Some agency contracting officers have embraced it, while
others need more education on how to use the tool, Chang said.
The SBA is reaching out to agencies and women-owned companies to
improve awareness of the program and its rules, she said.  Uneven Performance  The program’s uneven performance is making it harder for
women-owned companies to get a significant share of a federal
contracting market valued at more than $500 billion annually.
That’s frustrating because woman own about a third of the
nation’s small businesses, said Margot Dorfman, chief executive
officer of the Washington-based U.S. Women’s Chamber of
Commerce.  “We’re sorely disappointed,” Dorfman said in a phone
interview. “The number-one challenge in meeting those goals is
that the contracting officers aren’t using these set-asides.”  One of the Energy Department’s biggest barriers is that a
lot of its contract spending occurs through national labs that
are typically run by consortia that include large companies and
universities.  “Due to the nature of that work, it is difficult for the
Department to utilize small businesses as often as other
industries,” Aoife McCarthy, an agency spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail.  Nuclear Weapons  The labs include the Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory, managed by a group including San Francisco-based
Bechtel, the  University of California ,  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Babcock & Wilcox, San Francisco-based URS and
Columbus, Ohio-based Battelle. The Livermore,  California , lab is
responsible for the security of the nation’s  nuclear weapons 
stockpile.  The top 50 contractors in the Energy Department attracted
more than 90 percent of the agency’s awards in fiscal 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The agency’s biggest vendor was Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed, which received $2.6 billion in awards from the
department last year. No. 2 was Los Alamos National Security
LLC, which includes the University of California,  Babcock &
Wilcox (BWC) , Bechtel and URS.  The contractor manages the Los Alamos National Laboratory
in  New Mexico  and received $2.1 billion in awards last year,
according to a Bloomberg study.  Target Missed  Across federal agencies, women-owned small companies
attracted about 4 percent of eligible contracts dollars in
fiscal 2012, according to an SBA review. The government missed
its goal of 5 percent.  Not all agencies underperformed. The Department of Housing
and Urban Development awarded 14.7 percent of eligible contracts
to women-owned firms, and the Treasury Department, 13.2 percent.  The Energy Department had the worst performance of the 10
biggest agencies by contract spending, with 1.24 percent. It was
followed by NASA, with 2.94 percent. On its SBA report card, the
Energy Department  scored an F , the lowest possible score, for
its contracting with all small businesses.  “There’s no meat behind these reviews,” Dickerson said.
“Look at the  Department of Energy , they’ve received an F for
the last two years on meeting small business contracting goals.
Where is the accountability?”  NASA Contracts  EnRep is a subcontractor working under a unit of Englewood,
Colorado-based CH2M Hill Companies Ltd. CH2M is overseeing the
cleanup of a plutonium plant used to make nuclear weapons in
Benton County,  Washington .  Dickerson, who wants to serve as a lead contractor,
suggested that the Energy Department break up big awards and
distribute more of the smaller-sized contracts likely to attract
small businesses.  NASA is also struggling to meet its spending targets with
women. It awarded their small businesses less than 3 percent of
its $13.7 billion in eligible contracting dollars last year,
according to the SBA  review . The agency has set aside two
contracts for woman-owned companies in the past two fiscal
years.  Some of  NASA ’s difficulties stem from the amount of work it
does with contractors in areas such as research and development,
space-vehicle manufacturing and engineering services, Sonja
Alexander, a spokeswoman for the agency, said in an e-mail.  “These are industries that woman-owned small businesses
are currently underrepresented in,” she said.  Size Limits  It was also hurt by limits on the size of contracts that
could be reserved for woman-owned companies, she said. When the
preference program began in April 2011, manufacturing work could
only be set-aside for women-owned vendors if the contracts were
valued at less than $5 million. For other work, the cap was $3
million.  Companies like Victory Solutions Inc., a Huntsville,
Alabama-based engineering-support company with about 50
employees, didn’t apply for set-aside contracts with NASA
because it didn’t make sense to spend time and money competing
for small amounts, said Kris McGuire, the supplier’s chief
executive officer.  The SBA increased the cap last year, and President  Barack Obama  signed  defense spending  legislation this year that removed
the limit altogether so agencies can set aside work for women-owned firms regardless of the value of the contract.  “This gets me excited,” McGuire said in a phone
interview. “Now we can go after the big contracts with NASA.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  