-- Woods Says Majors Drought More About Execution Than Confidence
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-07-16T12:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/woods-says-majors-drought-more-about-execution-than-confidence.html
Tiger Woods  says his drought in
major golf championships is more a result of execution than lack
of confidence.  Woods has gone five years since winning his 14th major
title at the 2008  U.S. Open . The world’s top-ranked golfer gets
his next chance to close in on  Jack Nicklaus ’s record of 18 this
week in the British Open at Muirfield in Gullane,  Scotland .  “It’s just a shot here and there,” Woods, 37, said today
at a press conference. “It’s not much. It could happen on the
first day, it could happen on the last day. But it’s turning
that tide and getting the momentum at the right time or
capitalizing on our opportunity. That’s what you have to do to
win major championships.”  Woods is the 9-1 favorite at Muirfield with U.K. bookmaker
William Hill Plc, meaning a successful $1 bet returns $9 plus
the original stake. U.S. Open champion  Justin Rose  and  Phil Mickelson  are the second choices at 18-1.  The most recent of Woods’s three Open victories came in
2006, with his joint third-place finish last year his best
since.  Woods has been up and down in majors since the U.S. Open
victory. He’s had eight top-10 finishes in 16 starts, but fallen
outside the top-10 in four of the past six. He’s also failed to
reach weekend play twice and missed four tournaments because of
injury.  ‘Very Good’  “I felt very, very good going into major championships,”
Woods, who has four wins this season and recaptured the No. 1
world ranking, said. “Even though I haven’t won a major
championship in five years, I’ve been there in a bunch of them
where I’ve had chances. I just need to keep putting myself there
and eventually I’ll get some.”  Woods tied for fourth in April’s Masters Tournament and
tied for 32nd at last month’s U.S. Open, where he strained his
left elbow and finished 13-over par after failing to break par
with rounds of 73, 70, 76 and 74. He then sat out the AT&T
National at the end of last month to recover and had been
working on his game at home in  Florida .  “The elbow feels good,” he said. “It’s one of the good
things of taking the time off to let it heal and get the
treatment and therapy on it. The main reason was that coming
over here the ground is going to be hard, obviously. And I’m
going to need that elbow to be good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at Muirfield through the London sports desk at +44-   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 