-- WTI Crude Fluctuates Before Bernanke Testimony, Stockpile Data
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-07-17T12:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/wti-trades-near-two-day-low-as-chart-shows-unsustainable-gains.html
West Texas Intermediate fluctuated
before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testifies to
Congress and the Energy Department releases weekly data on oil
inventories in the U.S., the world’s largest crude consumer.  Futures were little changed after sliding as much as 0.8
percent in  New York . Bernanke, who has said the Fed may start
reducing $85 billion in monthly bond purchases later this year,
will appear before the House Financial Services Committee today.
The Energy Department will probably report that U.S.  crude
inventories  fell by 2 million barrels last week, a Bloomberg
survey showed.  “People are going to realize that tapering of quantitative
easing is on the cards, and there’s not going to be an escape
from this,” said Hakan Kocayusufpasaoglu, chief investment
officer at Archbridge Capital AG, a Zug, Switzerland-based hedge
fund. “That will probably strengthen the dollar, and although
crude has rallied lately on supply issues, it will put a little
bit of pressure on the oil market.”  WTI for August delivery was at $105.85 a barrel, 15 cents
lower in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
as of 1:18 p.m. London time. It fell earlier as much as 89 cents
to $105.11 a barrel. The volume of all futures traded was in
line with the 100-day average. The contract lost 32 cents
yesterday to $106, the lowest closing price since July 12.  Bernanke Testimony  Brent for September settlement declined as much as 84
cents, or 0.8 percent, to $107.30 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. The August contract yesterday
expired at $109.40. The European benchmark grade was at a
premium of $2.47 to WTI, compared with $3.40 yesterday.  Bernanke will appear before House members today and
senators tomorrow to present the Fed’s semi-annual monetary
policy report. His statement to the House Financial Services
Committee is set for public release at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington ,
90 minutes before he delivers it to lawmakers. The Bloomberg
 Dollar Index  added 0.3 percent.  The Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm, is scheduled to release its
inventory report at 10:30 a.m. in Washington. It will probably
show gasoline supplies decreased by 1.5 million barrels,
according to the  median estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Distillate supplies are projected to climb by 1.5
million barrels.  Crude Stockpiles  U.S. crude stockpiles shrank by 2.6 million barrels last
week, the  American Petroleum Institute  said yesterday, according
to a person familiar with the data. The API reported that
gasoline stockpiles rose by 2.6 million barrels last week, said
the person.  The API began releasing its weekly supply statistics on a
subscription basis this month. The industry group collects
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines. The government requires that
reports be filed with the EIA for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  