-- Dollar Gains Before Bernanke Remarks; Pound Rises on BOE
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-07-17T11:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/yen-remains-higher-after-stocks-drop-pound-weakens-against-euro.html
The  dollar  strengthened and the yen
fell before testimony from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  that investors are looking to for signs on the strength
of the  U.S. economy  and the central bank’s stimulus plans.  The U.K. pound rose from a four-month low against the euro
after minutes of the  Bank of England ’s last meeting showed
policy makers unanimously backed new Governor  Mark Carney ’s vote
against expanding stimulus. The Bloomberg Dollar Index snapped a
two-day decline before data that economists said will show U.S.
housing starts increased for a second month, adding to the case
for the Fed to slow monetary easing. Canada’s dollar fell amid
bets the central bank will keep interest rates unchanged.  “We are very constructive on the  U.S. dollar  for very
fundamental reasons,” Deutsche Bank AG Co-Chief Executive
Officer Anshu Jain said in a Bloomberg Television interview with
Haslinda Amin in  Singapore . “A combination of a U.S., which is
re-industrializing, and a household, which is starting to spend
again, could presage a long, strong period for the U.S., which
of course would be good for the dollar.”  The dollar advanced 0.6 percent to 99.70 yen at 7:19 a.m.
 New York  time, after depreciating 0.8 percent yesterday. It
strengthened 0.2 percent to $1.3141 per euro. The Japanese
currency weakened 0.4percent to 131 per euro.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, rose 0.2 percent.  Sustainable Growth  Bernanke said on June 19 that the Fed may start slowing its
bond-buying program this year and end it entirely in mid-2014 if
the economy achieves sustainable growth. Minutes released on
July 10 of the Fed’s last policy meeting showed “about half”
of the participants indicated “it likely would be appropriate”
to end the buying late this year.  The central-bank chairman is scheduled to deliver his semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress, starting with the
House Financial Services Committee today. His prepared testimony
will be released at 8:30 a.m. in Washington and the hearing
begins at 10 a.m. The Fed purchases $85 billion of Treasuries
and mortgage debt each month as part of its latest round of
quantitative easing to cap borrowing costs, a program that tends
to debase the currency.  The U.S. Commerce Department will say today that  housing
starts  climbed 5 percent in June from a month earlier to a
960,000 annualized rate, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Global Volatility  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index, a
measure of currency fluctuations, slipped to 10.37 percent, the
lowest since June 18. It reached a one-year high of 11.96
percent on June 24.  “The dollar is unlikely to be sold in the long term,”
said Masato Yanagiya, the New York-based head of foreign-exchange and money trading at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., a
unit of  Japan ’s second-biggest financial group by market value.
“The market consensus is for the Fed to taper quantitative
easing in September.”  The yen weakened against all of its major counterparts as
the  Bank of Japan  released  minutes  of its June 10-11 policy
meeting today. One board member said it’s appropriate for the
central bank to limit the period of its monetary stimulus to
about two years and review it thereafter, the minutes showed. If
expectations rise in markets that the measures will continue for
a longer period or “extreme” additional steps will be
implemented, that would lead to economic instability in the
medium-to-long term, the member said.  Declines Reversed  The pound reversed declines after minutes of the Bank of
England’s July 3-4 meeting showed officials  Paul Fisher  and
 David Miles  dropped their call to expand the central bank’s 375
billion-pound ($570 billion) quantitative-easing program
instituted in 2009. They rallied to Carney’s policy of a “mixed
strategy” involving guidance on the path of interest rates,
ending months of split decisions within the nine-member Monetary
Policy Committee.  The pound rose 0.7 percent to 86.26 pence per euro after
touching 87.11, the weakest level since March 13. Sterling
gained 0.5 percent to $1.5231.  “It’s encouraging to see further signs of confidence from
the BOE,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “Not before time, the
green shoots are visible in a market positioned short the
pound.” A short position is a bet an asset’s value will fall.  Sterling’s advance against the euro presents an opportunity
to buy the 17-nation currency, according to an e-mailed comment
from  Chris Turner , head of foreign-exchange strategy at ING
Groep NV In London.  The pound “rallied sharply primarily on the headline that
it was a 9-0 vote for unchanged QE at the July meeting,” he
said in an e-mail following the minutes. “The discussion on
activity was generally encouraging in the minutes, but we tend
to think that the pound does not hold today’s gains.”  Canada’s currency weakened 0.1 percent to C$1.0380 per U.S.
dollar after gaining 0.6 percent yesterday. Bank of Canada
Governor Stephen Poloz will keep the benchmark  interest rate  at
1 percent today as he releases his inaugural monetary policy
report, according to a Bloomberg  survey  of 20 economists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  