-- ThyssenKrupp Rises on Speculation of Brazil Factory Sale
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-07-16T10:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/thyssenkrupp-rises-on-speculation-of-brazil-factory-sale.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  rose to a six-week
high after the Brazilian daily O Estado de S. Paulo reported
that Germany’s biggest steelmaker reached a deal to sell its
steel plant CSA in the state of  Rio de Janeiro .  ThyssenKrupp  increased  as much as 3.8 percent to 15.95
euros, the highest intraday price since June 5. The stock was
trading up 3.6 percent at 12:37 a.m. in Frankfurt, valuing the
Essen, Germany-based company at 8.19 billion euros ($10.7
billion). Volume was 72 percent of the three-month average.  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3) ,  Brazil ’s third-largest
steelmaker, has emerged as the leading bidder for ThyssenKrupp’s
Brazilian and U.S. steel-plant assets, people with knowledge of
the talks said in May. ThyssenKrupp will maintain a small stake
in CSA in a transaction that may be announced in the next few
days, O Estado reported yesterday, without saying where it got
the information. The German steelmaker said today that the
status of the negotiations hasn’t changed.  “We are in advanced negotiations with a leading bidder on
the disposal of Steel Americas,” the unit that’s being sold,
Stefan Ettwig, a spokesman at ThyssenKrupp, said by phone.  ThyssenKrupp’s gain exceeded the 1.1 percent increase in
the 18-stock Bloomberg Europe Iron/Steel Index.  Awaiting ‘News’  “Other steelmakers were not rising today, so Thyssen might
be gaining on the speculation of the plant sale,” Christian Obst, an analyst at Baader Bank in Unterschleissheim,  Germany ,
said by phone. “Everyone is waiting for the news and we might
hear something in next weeks.”  The German steelmaker said earlier this month that it will
take weeks to achieve “stable operating conditions” at one of
the two furnaces at the Steel Americas plant in Rio de Janeiro
state, while ThyssenKrupp continues to pursue a prompt signing
of a sale agreement for the division.  A disposal soon would be “surprising because of the
technical problems with the furnace,” said Ingo-Martin Schachel, an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “I would
have expected a delay until August. If they can manage to do it
in July, that would be positive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weixin Zha in  Frankfurt  at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  