-- Yuan Global Use to Rise on China Middle Class, HSBC Survey Finds
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-07-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-16/yuan-global-use-to-rise-on-china-middle-class-hsbc-survey-finds.html
The  yuan ’s use in global trade will
increase in the next five years as global companies seek to
bolster sales targeting  China ’s middle class, according to a
survey by  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   The London-based lender, which spoke with 711 businesses
from Asia to Europe with at least $3 million in sales a year,
said 73 percent of the 128 corporates which use the yuan expect
to increase their cross-border use of the currency. A quarter of
the non-users plan to pay or receive the yuan, showed the survey
conducted in China, Hong Kong,  Singapore ,  Australia , the U.K.,
the U.S. and Germany in May and June.  “People realize that, as China moves up the value chain,
its imports will start rising and probably exceed exports,”
Simon Constantinides, HSBC’s regional head of global trade and
receivables finance for Asia-Pacific, said in an interview
yesterday. “That means companies in China will be buying
internationally and they are likely to pay in  renminbi .”  The Chinese currency was the 13th most-used in global
payments in May, with its market share rising to a record 0.84
percent from 0.69 percent in April, the Society for Worldwide
Interbank Financial Telecommunication said last month.  The HSBC report comes as China looks to promote the yuan’s
use in an effort to diversify its $3.5 trillion foreign-exchange
reserves, the world’s largest stockpile. The government last
week relaxed rules on cross-border usage, allowing companies to
give yuan loans to overseas affiliates.  Reserve Currency  Bundesbank board member Joachim Nagel said on July 3 that
the yuan may become an international reserve currency and that
Frankfurt is trying to establish itself as the trading center in
 Europe .  China signed a three-year swap agreement last month for 200
billion yuan ($33 billion) with the  Bank of England  to foster
trading in London. The  European Central Bank , based in Germany’s
financial capital, may obtain a deal valued at four times that
amount, according to lobby group Frankfurt Main Finance. Almost
80 percent of offshore yuan trading is currently settled in Hong
Kong.  The yuan has appreciated 1.6 percent against the greenback
this year, the only gainer among Asia’s 11 most-traded
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency rose 0.05 percent yesterday to 6.1350 per dollar in
Shanghai.  Discounts Offered  Half of the international companies surveyed in  Hong Kong 
and 30 percent of those in China are using the yuan in cross-border business, HSBC said. More than 50 percent of the Chinese
businesses polled would offer discounts of as much as 5 percent
for transactions in the currency.  There’s room for yuan usage to grow further, said Hong
Kong-based Constantinides. About 60 percent of Chinese companies
interviewed said their counterparties are unwilling to consider
a yuan transaction. Only 11 percent of companies in Singapore
and the U.K. use the yuan, while the ratios are 9 percent in
Germany and the U.S., and 7 percent in Australia.  Many companies, including in China itself, don’t know how
to use the yuan effectively in international trade, said
Constantinides.  “The huge component is education and to let clients know
the options they can have,” said Constantinides, adding that
opportunities in the country, in terms of manufacturing and the
growing middle-class consumer base, aren’t going to stop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  