-- Alonso Wins German Grand Prix to Boost Lead in F-1 Standings
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-07-22T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/alonso-wins-german-grand-prix-to-boost-lead-in-f-1-standings-1-.html
Fernando Alonso  of Ferrari won
yesterday’s German Grand Prix at Hockenheim to clinch his third
victory this season and extend his lead in the Formula One
drivers’ standings.  Red Bull’s Sebastian Vettel finished second on the track,
3.73 seconds behind, before being demoted to fifth after a 20-
second penalty for an unlawful overtaking maneuver on  Jenson Button . McLaren’s Button was promoted to second.  It was the 30th career win for  Spain ’s Alonso, a two-time
world champion who dominated the race from pole position. It’s
the third time he’s won the German Grand Prix.  “Starting on pole was the key factor,” Alonso, 30, told
the post-race ceremony after his second straight race starting
at the front of the grid. “It was difficult to overtake and we
were not the fastest but we kept the position.”  Kimi Raikkonen  of Lotus finished fourth ahead of Sauber’s
Kamui Kobayashi, and they were promoted one position after
Vettel’s penalty. Sergio Perez of Sauber was sixth, followed by
 Michael Schumacher  of Mercedes,  Mark Webber  of Red Bull, Force
 India ’s  Nico Hulkenberg  and  Nico Rosberg  of Mercedes.  Alonso, now having won two of the past three races, leads
the standings on 154 points, followed by Webber (120), Vettel
(110), Raikkonen (98), McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton  (92), Rosberg
(76) and Button (68).  ‘Difficult’  Button, benefiting from an upgraded McLaren car, started
the race in sixth position before charging up the field. He said
over team radio that  Germany ’s Vettel had gone off the track to
get past him on the penultimate lap.  “I had a great race out there, it’s nice to be fighting at
the front again,” Button said after the 67-lap race.  Vettel, two-time defending world champion, has never won
his home grand prix. He said it had been a difficult situation
involving Button.  “I tried to give him enough room but it’s difficult to see
and I went wide. We were all struggling with our tires, Jenson
in particular, so I think that’s why I was able to get past
him,” he said. Stewards decided he had gone off the track while
carrying out the maneuver and therefore imposed the penalty.  Red Bull was also surrounded by controversy before the race
when stewards investigated a possible breach of technical
regulations relating to the cars’ engine throttles.  Engine Probe  No action was taken against the team after stewards met
with representatives of Red Bull and engine supplier Renault and
decided rules weren’t broken. Even so, race officials said they
didn’t accept all the team’s arguments.  Alonso started the race well while drivers behind him tried
to avoid debris on the track after a crash involving Ferrari’s
 Felipe Massa ,  Romain Grosjean  of Lotus and Williams’s  Bruno Senna .  Button’s teammate Hamilton, starting seventh in his 100th
Grand Prix, dropped to the back of the field after puncturing
and said over team radio that he needed to retire. He continued
in the race after pitting but said the car didn’t feel stable,
finally retiring 10 laps from the end.  “I saw the debris come up and it damaged” the car,
Hamilton said. “The car felt terrible after that, the rear
floor is damaged. The only positive I can take from this weekend
is Jenson’s result.”  Alonso changed on to harder tires after 18 laps and resumed
in third place behind Vettel and Button. Those two then pitted,
and Alonso regained the lead. The trio were followed by
Raikkonen and Schumacher in fourth and fifth, a pattern that
remained for several laps.  Pit Stops  A pit stop by Button prompted Alonso and Vettel to do the
same, and the McLaren driver managed to get ahead of the German
to take second spot behind Alonso. That remained the leading
sequence beyond lap 50, with Alonso a second ahead.  Button reduced the gap and kept up the pressure on Alonso,
who then responded by regaining his time advantage and extending
it to 2 seconds with three laps left.  Alonso kept his grip on the race, while on the second-to-
last lap Vettel ran wide to overtake Button, a move that
resulted in his time penalty.  Vettel criticized Hamilton for trying to unlap himself by
overtaking him toward the end of the race.  “That was not nice of him, I don’t see why he tried to
race us,” Vettel said. “If he wants to drive fast then he can
drop back, find a gap and go fast then, but it was a bit stupid
to disturb the leaders. He was a lap down, so I don’t see his
point.”  McLaren principal Martin Whitmarsh defended his driver.  “He was quicker, he overtook and he pulled away, so I’m
not sure what stupidity there is in that,” he said.  Red Bull  leads the constructors’ competition on 230 points,
followed by Ferrari (177), McLaren (160), Lotus (159) and
Mercedes (105).  The next event, the 11th in the 20-race season, is the
Hungarian Grand Prix in Budapest on July 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  