-- Maruti Suzuki Imposes Lockout at India Plant After Riot
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-07-23T12:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/maruti-suzuki-imposes-lockout-at-india-plant-after-riot.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
country’s largest carmaker, fell in Mumbai trading after the
company said it’s halting a factory near New Delhi pending the
conclusion of a probe into a deadly riot last week.  Maruti dropped 5.9 percent to close at 1,079.95 rupees, the
lowest since June 20. The stock was the worst performer on
India’s  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , which lost 1.6 percent.  Suzuki Motor
Corp. (7269) , which owns a majority stake in the automaker, declined
3.9 percent to 1,366 yen in  Tokyo , the lowest close since
February 2009.  Chairman R.C. Bhargava on July 21 announced the lockout and
ruled out an early resumption of the factory, which accounts for
about 40 percent of the company’s manufacturing capacity. The
stoppage, the fourth at the plant in a year, means Maruti may
fail to meet growing demand for diesel cars and risk alienating
customers.  “There’s big demand for diesel vehicles and most of
Maruti’s diesel models are made here,” said Umesh Karne, an
analyst at BRICS Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “This may also
change customer perception as this is happening regularly and
customers may avoid booking and waiting for Maruti cars.”  At the Manesar factory, where Maruti assembles its top-
selling Swift and Dzire models, policemen extended their cordon
of the site as they investigate the violence. The charred
security booth at the entrance gate was covered in tarpaulin
material, with entry limited to police, guards and firemen. No
signs of cleanup operations were visible as of 12:45 p.m.  The factory produces about 1,600 vehicles worth 700 million
rupees ($12.5 million) a day, according to Ashvin Shetty, an
analyst at Ambit Capital Pvt. in Mumbai.  Deadly Violence  Bhargava didn’t give an estimate as to how long the
stoppage will last.  “We cannot risk any further damage,” Bhargava said.
“That’s the reason why it’s necessary for us to do a complete
investigation into the events that happened and identify the
factors that caused the events to happen, what were the causes,
what was behind all this, why did it happen?”  Last week’s violence -- which resulted in the death of
Awanish Kumar Dev, a human resources general manager, and at
least 70 injuries -- has led one of the nation’s biggest
business lobbies to say the incident has undermined  India ’s
reputation as an investment destination.  “It’s a matter of deep concern for a country that seeks to
project itself as offering an environment that is business-
friendly,” R.V. Kanoria, president of the Federation of Indian
Chambers of Commerce and Industry, said in an e-mailed statement
July 21, calling for authorities to deal “firmly” with the
situation.  No Relocation  The automaker won’t import cars to make up for the loss of
production at its Manesar factory, Bhargava said.  Indian authorities said July 19 that all 3,000 union
workers at the Manesar plant would be charged with murder and
attempted murder.  K.K. Sindhu,  police commissioner  of Gurgaon district, said
in an interview today police may not charge all the workers with
murder and were only detaining them to obtain information about
the incident.  Maruti has no plans to relocate the plant out of Manesar in
northern Haryana state, Bhargava said. A factory at Gurgaon,
about 19 kilometers (12 miles) northeast of Manesar, is
operating at full capacity, he said. Suzuki is sending about 10
Japan-based employees to support recovery work, Tokyo-based
spokesman Ei Mochizuki said today.  “This is bad news for Maruti as it may take as little as
five days or as long as 50 days to identify the rogue elements
in the workers who did this,” said  Mahantesh Sabarad , an
analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd. in Mumbai. “It
also shows the trust deficit between the management and the
workers. This lockout comes at a very efficient factory that
produces some of Maruti’s most popular models.”  Bad Timing  The lockout comes amid a slowdown in car sales in India as
high gasoline prices and  interest rates  deter buyers. The
 Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  on July 10 cut its
forecast for growth to a range of 9 percent to 11 percent for
the year ending March 31 from an estimate of 10 percent to 12
percent given in April.  India’s  economic growth  slowed to the weakest in almost a
decade in the quarter ended March and the rupee slumped to a
record low amid a paralysis in policy making that has hurt
efforts to spur investment as a global recovery falters. The
government’s recent setbacks include the December suspension of
a move to let foreign companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
open supermarkets, and abandoning of plans to allow investment
in the pension and insurance industries.  The rioting at Maruti “may definitely impact the
investment in India in the short run,”  Malvinder Singh ,
chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industry’s northern
region, said on July 20.  Minister Visit  Narendra Modi , chief minister of India’s Gujarat state,
who’s on a visit to  Japan , will meet Suzuki officials at
Hamamatsu on July 25, according to an e-mailed statement. Modi’s
visit has fueled speculation that he would convince Maruti to
consider a bigger plant than the 250,000-unit facility it has
announced in the state, the  Press Trust of India  reported July
20.  Shinzo Nakanishi, managing director of Maruti, said July 21
Suzuki is expanding in Gujarat, not shifting production there.  Maruti’s board in October approved buying as much as 1,400
acres (567 hectares) of land for future expansion in Gujarat,
where  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
either have plants or are building factories.  Gujarat’s Minister of State for Industries Saurabh Patel
said media reports that Maruti may shift parts of its Manesar
plant to the state was “far from truth and a figment of
imagination.” Maruti’s decision to invest in Gujarat was made
long ago, he said in a statement on the government’s website.  Blame Game  Maruti and the workers’ union have blamed each other for
the Manesar incident.  According to Maruti, the dispute began July 18 after a
worker beat up a supervisor on the shop floor. The union then
prevented management from taking disciplinary action, blocking
managers from leaving the factory after work, Maruti said.
Workers attacked managers after talks to resolve the dispute
failed, with employees setting property on fire and ransacking
offices,  according  to the company.  The union has said it was keen to have a dialogue with the
company to resolve the matter and that workers were attacked by
bouncers working for Maruti while discussions were on with guild
leaders.  “Following the incidents of violence and arson at the
Manesar facility, the  management  believes that if employees are
asked to report for work at the facility, their lives will be
endangered,” Maruti said in an e-mailed statement on July 21.  Ram Meher Singh, president of the Maruti Suzuki Workers
Union, and Sarabjeet Singh, the general secretary, could not be
reached for comments yesterday as their mobile phones were
switched off.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  