-- As Fighting Rocks Syria, American Insights Remain Limited
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-07-22T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/as-fighting-rocks-syria-american-insights-remain-limited.html
As rebels yesterday battled
government forces in  Syria ’s largest city, concerns about the
nation’s arsenal of chemical weapons mounted, and the Obama
administration searched for ways to help end the conflict.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said  Israel  is
concerned that Hezbollah or other terrorist groups could gain
control of chemical weapons, rockets and missiles if the
government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad collapses into
chaos. He didn’t rule out taking action to prevent such a
transfer.  “Do I seek action? No,” Netanyahu said yesterday on “Fox
News Sunday.” “Do I preclude it? No.”  U.S. intelligence officials yesterday said Assad’s forces
have moved some of the country’s stocks of sarin and VX nerve
gas and other chemical weapons. They said they don’t know
whether the Syrians are trying to secure the weapons or move
them into position to use against the opposition if Assad orders
that.  The state-run Syrian Arab News Agency yesterday reported
that Assad had ordered armed forces chief General Ali Abdullah
Ayyoub to “continue chasing down the terrorists and preserving
the security of the citizens and protecting them against
terrorist acts.”  The U.S. officials, who all spoke on the condition of
anonymity to discuss classified information, said they have
little insight into the intentions of Assad and his remaining
allies, principally members of the country’s Alawite minority
sect of Shiite Islam.  Consensus View  Nevertheless, the U.S. officials said, the consensus view,
shared by America’s European allies, Israel, and even  Russia , a
longtime ally of Syria, is that Assad is unlikely to fight to
the death, and his family’s authoritarian regime is unlikely to
last until its 42nd birthday on Nov. 13.  “Look, I think the regime will go,” Netanyahu told Fox
News host  Chris Wallace  yesterday. “I don’t know if it’s days
or weeks or months, but I don’t think it’s sustainable and I
think it will go.”  Efforts at the  United Nations  to broker a peaceful
transition to a new government broke down last week after Russia
and China again vetoed a proposal to impose sanctions on Syria,
and the UN  Security Council  on July 20 voted unanimously to end
a fruitless three-month mission by 300 unarmed peacekeepers in
30 days.  Speaking yesterday on  CNN ’s “ State of the Union ,”  Arizona 
Republican Senator John McCain criticized the Obama
administration for failing to assist the opposition and instead
relying “on the goodwill of Russia and the  United Nations
Security Council ” to resolve the crisis in Syria.  McCain Criticism  “I hate to be sarcastic, but because of our failure to
assist, because of our failure to lead other willing nations in
the region, like  Turkey  and  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar and others,
the situation has now deteriorated to a situation which is
really, really very dangerous,” McCain said.  U.S. intelligence officers, as well as White House,
Pentagon and State Department officials, have been talking with
their counterparts in  Europe , Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Israel,
Jordan, Qatar, Lebanon,  Iraq  and elsewhere. Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta  will embark this week on a trip that includes a
stop in Israel.  The issues being discussed, administration officials said
yesterday, include securing Syria’s weapons if the regime
collapses; halting the bloodshed that has claimed an estimated
17,000 civilian lives; and preventing the exodus of some 125,000
refugees from destabilizing Turkey, Lebanon or Jordan.  Israel’s Borders  In addition, they said, the administration wants to help
keep Israel’s northern borders with Syria and Lebanon secure and
to assist creating a transitional government to succeed Assad.  Meanwhile, foreign ministers from the  Arab League  held a
crisis meeting in Doha, Qatar, yesterday, Nile News reported.  Still, the intelligence officials and four U.S. officials
involved in Syria policy said yesterday, all those efforts are
hampered by a lack of insights into Assad’s thinking and the
intentions of more than 100 scattered opposition groups. They
also cited the fact that the opposition doesn’t have a safe
haven for coordination meetings and aid deliveries, the way
opponents of the late Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  did.  That may be changing, though, the U.S. officials said, as
rebel forces seize border crossings with Turkey and Iraq and
take their fight to Aleppo and even some privileged precincts of
Damascus, the capital.  Aleppo Offensive  Rebel leaders with the al-Tawhid Brigade said in a video
sent to the  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  that their
military offensive to seize Aleppo has begun, according to a
statement posted on the U.K.-based rights group’s Facebook page
yesterday. Rebels gained control of three neighborhoods in the
city, and government forces intensified shelling there, Al
Jazeera television reported.  Syrian security forces killed 37 people yesterday, Al
Arabiya television reported, citing activists.  Armed clashes were taking place near the al-Zabadia police
station and the immigration and passport building in Aleppo, the
 Syrian Observatory  for  Human Rights  said on its Facebook page.
Battles were raging in the Aleppo neighborhoods of Saif al-
Dawla, al-Jameeliya and al-Meridian, it said.  Syrian forces caused “heavy losses among the terrorists,”
destroying three pick-up trucks equipped with machine guns
during clashes with armed groups in Qebtan al-Jabal to the north
of Aleppo, the  Syrian Arab News Agency  said yesterday, citing an
unidentified source.  Battle Widens  Damascus and Aleppo, Syria’s largest cities, had been
spared the worst of the violence until recently, as government
forces waged fierce battles in provinces such as Homs and Hama.
The two cities are home to merchants and wealthy Assad
supporters who have benefited from their ties to his
administration.  Rebels also seized the town of Rwehina, about 1,400 meters
(1,530 yards) from Israeli troops in the Golan Heights,  Al
Arabiya  reported yesterday, citing activists. The Israelis
captured the Heights from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war, and the
Assad regime has kept the area, which overlooks Israel’s
northern Galilee, mostly quiet.  Israel filed a formal protest to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon and the president of the Security Council after 500
Syrian soldiers and 50 vehicles entered the demilitarized zone
there, Haaretz reported yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  