-- Australian, N.Z. Dollars Fall Amid European Debt Concern
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-07-23T06:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/australian-n-z-dollars-fall-amid-european-debt-concern.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars slid for a second day as Asian stocks extended a global
equity rout amid concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening,
reducing demand for higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie dollar weakened against the yen before
data this week forecast to show Australian inflation eased,
giving the  Reserve Bank  more room to consider reductions in
borrowing costs. New Zealand’s currency, known as the kiwi,
dropped versus all 16 major peers after Spanish yields rose to a
euro-era record and on renewed prospects  Greece  will exit the
currency union.  “The European crisis is far from solved and those concerns
are weighing on the market,” said  Thomas Averill , managing
director in Sydney at Rochford Capital, a currency and interest-
rate risk-management company. “Risk sentiment is very fragile
and very volatile. You’ll likely to see the Aussie and the kiwi
follow equities south.”  The Australian dollar fell 0.7 percent to $1.0308 as of
4:20 p.m. in Sydney. The Aussie lost 1.2 percent to 80.49 yen.
New Zealand’s dollar declined 0.9 percent to 79.26 U.S. cents.
It dropped 1.4 percent to 61.90 yen.  Australia’s government bonds  advanced , pushing the yield on
the benchmark 10-year security down by as much as 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 2.80 percent, the lowest
since June 4.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares fell 1.8 percent,
following a 1.3 percent decline in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  on July
20.  Spain Yields  Spain ’s benchmark 10-year yield climbed as high as 7.389
percent, a euro-era record. The 7 percent level was the
threshold for bailouts of Greece, Ireland and  Portugal . Spain is
due to sell bills tomorrow maturing in three and six months
after the region of Valencia said last week it would tap an
emergency-loan fund created by the government.  Greece’s troika of international creditors -- the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund  -- will arrive in Athens tomorrow amid concern the
country will be unable to meet its commitments and reluctance
among euro-area states to put up more funds should it fail.  In  Australia ,  consumer prices  probably climbed by 1.3
percent last quarter from the same three-month period last year,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the Bureau of Statistics releases figures
on July 25.  Producer Prices  The statistics bureau said today that producer prices rose
1.1 percent in the three months ended June 30 from the second
quarter of 2011. That is the lowest growth since June 2010.
Economists in a Bloomberg poll expected a 1 percent rise.  “The market is looking for an indication on whether
inflation is sufficiently contained to allow the RBA to cut
further,” said Rochford’s Averill. “If it comes out very soft,
it would certainly be another reason to sell the Aussie.”  Averill expects the Australian dollar to fall to $1.02 this
week.  The central bank has reduced its benchmark lending rate to
3.5 percent from 4.75 percent since embarking on a series of
rate cuts in November. The RBA aims to keep annual underlying
inflation in a range of 2 percent to 3 percent.  RBA Rates  Interest-rate swaps  indicate an 86 percent chance the
Reserve Bank will lower its key rate by 25 basis points at its
next meeting on Aug. 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with a 68 percent chance indicated on July 20. RBA
Governor  Glenn Stevens  is scheduled to speak in Sydney tomorrow.  Futures traders decreased bets that the Australian dollar
will gain against its U.S. counterpart, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed on
July 20. The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds 
and other large speculators on an advance in the Australian
dollar compared with those on a drop -- so-called  net longs  --
was 13,931 on July 17, compared with net longs of 19,065 a week
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  