-- Australia May Have One Rate Cut Left in Cycle, Deloitte Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-22T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/australia-may-have-one-rate-cut-left-in-cycle-deloitte-says.html
Australia ’s central bank may cut the
 benchmark interest rate  once more in this cycle if China can
maintain its growth outlook, Deloitte Access Economics said.  China has “boosted the ability of banks to lend and
accelerated the go-ahead on everything from  steel mills  to
alternative energy, hospitals and railways,” the Canberra-based
research company said in a report today. “That mix helps limit
blowback on global growth, which may not be far below longer
term trend. But the risks are real. Either Europe or China -- or,
heaven forbid, both -- could upset the applecart.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia kept borrowing costs
unchanged this month as domestic economic growth and previous
 interest-rate  reductions help the local economy weather global
disruptions. The central bank reduced rates by a total of 75
basis points in May and June to help cushion the economy from
the fallout in Europe and slower growth in China.  “Much still hinges on Europe and China,” Deloitte said
today. “Provided neither generates worse news than already
expected -- an admittedly key caveat -- then we’d stick to the
view we’ve had for a while: that the overall outlook for
Australian growth is still looking rather better than most
people realize.”  Australia’s core inflation probably slowed to 1.9 percent
last quarter, below the central bank’s 2 percent to 3 percent
target range, a survey of economists showed before a July 25
government report.  The Australian dollar’s strength, a moderation in wage
increases, lower  oil prices  and “signs of life” in
productivity are helping contain inflation, Deloitte said.  “But the productivity improvement needs to continue,” it
said. “And, even if it does, a steadier Australian dollar
threatens less benign import prices, while wages may resume
their rise as jobs recover and boomers retire.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  