-- BlackRock to Glenmede Seeking Safety in Corporate Bonds
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-07-23T16:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/blackrock-to-glenmede-seeking-safety-in-corporate-bonds.html
The world’s biggest fixed-income
investors, fed up with yields on benchmark government bonds that
pay less than zero percent, say they’ve found a new haven from
turmoil sweeping global markets: corporate debt.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Glenmede Corp. and at least four other
firms that collectively manage in excess of $4 trillion are
putting more of their money into the bonds of companies,
contributing to a record rally. The Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Broad Market Corporate Index, which tracks 9,542
debentures, is on pace to gain 3.61 percent in July, the most
since being created in 1997, and 14 percent for the year
including reinvested interest.  “You have rates markets like the U.S., the U.K. and
Germany which look incredibly expensive,” Ewen Cameron-Watt,
the chief investment strategist for a unit of New York-based
BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager with $3.56 trillion
in assets, said in a July 17 conference call from London. The
firm favors “stuff that gives you a real yield,” he said.  Even though the global economy is slowing and credit-rating
downgrades exceed upgrades, rising demand has allowed companies
worldwide to sell about $2.16 trillion of bonds this year, the
second-fastest pace on record based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. Instead of using the proceeds to expand and hire more
workers as desired by central banks that have cut interest rates
to record lows, companies are mainly refinancing existing
obligations or hoarding the money.  Cash Cushion  The ratio of cash to total assets for companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose to about 10 percent from 5.7
percent five years ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  AT&T Inc. (T) , the Dallas-based wireless carrier and biggest
U.S. nonfinancial issuer of debt securities, has extended the
weighted average maturity of its bonds to 15.6 years from 13.3
years in 2009 while cutting the  average coupon  on its $64.4
billion of notes to 5.34 percent from 6.42 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “People are saying the economy is sluggish, but it’s not
so bad that companies are going to start defaulting left and
right and getting downgraded severely because they’ve got a lot
of cash and have funded out their debt maturities,”  Martin Fridson , a global credit strategist in New York at BNP Paribas
Investment Partners who started his career as a corporate debt
trader in 1976, said in a telephone interview last week.  Double Yields  While investment-grade corporate bond yields are at record
lows of about 3 percent, that’s more than double what government
securities pay, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The
 gap , which ended last week at 2.05 percentage points, averaged
0.71 percentage point in 2006 and the first half of 2007, before
the start of the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  Those rates are a powerful lure because government bond
yields in the U.S., Germany and the U.K. are either below zero
on an absolute basis or after accounting for inflation. So-
called real yields on 10-year Treasuries are about negative 0.2
percent. Similar measures are negative 0.48 percent in Germany
and negative 0.88 percent in the U.K.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries fell to a record 1.3960
percent today, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Five-
year yields also reached an all-time low of 0.5411 percent.  The benchmark 10-year yield fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.43 percent at 12:44 p.m. in New
York. The 1.75 percent note due in May 2022 rose 9/32, or $2.81
per $1,000 face amount, to 102 31/32.  BlackRock, Glenmede  “Given that the risk-free rate is very expensive, you’ve
got to somehow generate some return,” Roger Bridges, who
oversees $15.3 billion as the Sydney-based head of fixed income
at Tyndall Investment Management Ltd., said in a July 16
telephone interview. “Corporate bonds look very good.”  Bridges said he was considering buying bonds sold in
Australia last week by Export-Import Bank of Korea. The three-
year securities pay 5 percent annual interest.  BlackRock’s Cameron-Watt said he favored credit- and
emerging-market debt. Glenmede, which is based in Philadelphia
and oversees $20 billion, is leaning toward high-yield bonds,
those rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less
than BBB- at S&P, and developing-nation debt, Jason Pride, the
director of investment strategy, told Pimm Fox on Bloomberg
Television’s “Taking Stock.” on July 11.  High-yield corporate bonds globally have returned 1.53
percent this month and 9.82 percent for the year based on the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global High Yield Index. The
firm’s emerging market index has gained 2.92 percent in July and
11.8 percent for the year.  Rising Sales  Companies have taken advantage of falling borrowing costs
and a rebound in confidence in credit markets.  The $2.16 trillion raised by borrowers from Fairfield,
Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE)  to South Korea’s STX
Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. is second only to the $2.44 trillion
that was issued at this point in 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Investors are pouring money into credit markets even as the
global economy slows, earnings growth decelerates and credit-
rating downgrades exceed upgrades. S&P said it reduced the
grades for $2.16 trillion of corporate debt worldwide in the
first half of this year and raised $707 billion.  “We don’t expect improvements by region or sector in the
foreseeable future,”  Diane Vazza , head of New York-based S&P’s
global fixed-income research, wrote in a July 12 report.  The International Monetary Fund in Washington cut its 2013
global economic growth forecast to 3.9 percent from April’s
estimate of 4.1 percent as Europe’s debt crisis prolongs Spain’s
recession and slows expansions in emerging markets from China to
India already facing weaker domestic demand.  ‘Further Out’  With recent moves by central banks from the U.S. to Europe,
and the U.K. to China to ease monetary policies causing
government bond yields to drop, “bond investors need to venture
further out on the risk spectrum” to generate returns, Gene Tannuzzo, a money manager at Columbia Management Investment
Advisers LLC, wrote in a report on the company’s  website  July 9.  Columbia favors investment-grade company bonds and agency
mortgage-backed securities such as those issued by Fannie Mae,
according to the report.  Corporate bonds have never been riskier. The duration of
global company bonds, a measure of price sensitivity to yield
changes that rises with longer maturities, reached a record of
high 5.86 years last week, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  ‘Headed Down’  An investor holding $10 million of Hartford-based  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s 4.5 percent debentures due 2042 would lose
about $565,000 if the yield increased to 4 percent from 3.7
percent now, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The danger for investors is that a slowdown will make it
tougher for borrowers facing declining earnings to service their
debts. Companies in the MSCI World Index  earned  $92.49 per share
excluding one-time gains or losses in the past 12 months, down
from this year’s high of $95.98 in February, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Assets that carry risk are “headed down,”  Bill Gross , who
runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Newport Beach, California-
based Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote on Twitter July
12. He wrote in a separate Twitter post that real assets are a
“better bet” because Treasuries offer negative yields.  His $263 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  had 52 percent of its
assets in mortgage-related debt, 35 percent in Treasuries and 13
percent in corporates on June 30, according to Pimco’s  website .  Budget Deficits  James Bianco, president of Chicago-based Bianco Research
LLC, said he favors the safety of government debt.  “If you want to play it safer, you can go to the two-year
 note  -- it won’t lose you money,” he said July 17 on Bloomberg
Television’s “First Up” with Susan Li. “But stocks can lose
you money, commodities can lose you money, high yield can lose
you money.”  With the U.S struggling with a $1 trillion  budget deficits 
and shortfalls in Germany, the U.K., Canada, France and Japan,
rising corporate cash balances and declining leverage levels
offer a degree of safety.  “Corporate credit is the place to be,” Gregory Peters,
chief cross-asset strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York, said
July 10 on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with  Stephanie Ruhle  and  Adam Johnson .  The global speculative-grade corporate default rate stood
at 2.7 percent at the end of the second quarter, compared with a
historical average of 4.8 percent since 1983, according to
Moody’s. The firm’s Liquidity-Stress Index, which measures the
ability of companies to meet debt payments, was 3.6 percent in
June, compared with a peak of 20.9 percent in March 2009 and the
record low of 3.3 percent last year.  ‘True AAA’  Barry Allan , who oversees C$6 billion ($5.9 billion) at
Marret Asset Management Inc. in Toronto, is betting that
corporate yields will decline below those of Treasuries as the
U.S. falls back into recession.  Allan favors companies rated AAA and AA such as Cincinnati-
based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , New Brunswick, New Jersey-based
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , Redmond, Washington-based  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
Mountain View, California-based  Google Inc. (GOOG)   “These companies are the true AAA balance sheets,” Allan
said in an interview.  Investment-grade corporate bonds have returned more than 3
percent in one month only three times since 1997, gaining 3.3
percent in July 2009, 3.2 percent in May of that year and 3.1
percent in December 2008, according the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index.  Tighter Spreads  The gauge, which tracks bonds with a par value of $6.8
trillion, has advanced 7.31 percent this year, more than double
the 3.55 percent return of the index that tracks $22.5 trillion
of  government bonds  and topping the 5.34 percent for the  MSCI
All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks, including dividends.  3M Co. (MMM)  sold $650 million of five-year notes last month that
yielded 1.095 percent, or 37 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries. The St. Paul, Minnesota-based maker of
Scotch tape and Post-It-Notes, which is rated AA- by S&P with a
“stable” outlook, paid a spread of 65 basis points when it
sold five-year notes in September.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest brewer, sold
$1.5 billion of three-year notes this month at 50 basis points
more than government debt, compared with 87.5 when it issued
similar-maturity bonds in March 2010. The Belgium-based maker of
Budweiser beer is rated A by S&P.  No Danger  There’s no danger of a bubble in company bonds because
investors will get their money back as long as they hold the
securities to maturity, said Marc Fovinci, head of fixed income
in Portland, Oregon at Ferguson Wellman Capital Management Inc.,
which has $3.1 billion in assets.  “We’re comfortable with credit,” said Fovinci, who
invests for wealthy individuals and for institutional clients.
“We’re happy to soak up the additional yield.”  Fovinci said he bought bonds last week of Philadelphia-
based  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable company, New York-
based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank, and Omaha,
Nebraska-based railroad company  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)   “We’re not compelled to go into government bonds at one,
one and a half percent yields,” Toby Nangle, head of multi-
asset allocation for London-based Threadneedle, which has the
equivalent of $120.9 billion in assets, said July 16 on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with Maryam Nemazee.
“We’re reducing from equity, reducing government bonds, adding
to corporate bonds and high-yield bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  