-- Britain’s Power Market Proposal ‘Unworkable,’ Lawmakers Say
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-07-23T09:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/britain-s-power-market-legislation-unworkable-lawmakers-say.html
The U.K. government’s proposal to
overhaul the  electricity market  is “unworkable” because the
Treasury isn’t willing to back contracts needed to spur clean
energy, a panel of lawmakers in Parliament said.  The Energy and Climate Change Committee said Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s department is refusing to use the
U.K.’s AAA credit rating to underwrite energy contracts, a
measure that would reduce the cost of improving Britain’s power
plants and electricity networks.  “The government is in danger of botching its plan to boost
clean energy because the Treasury is refusing to back new
contracts to deliver investment in nuclear, wind, wave and
carbon capture and storage,” said  Tim Yeo , a Conservative
member of Parliament who leads the committee.  The comments escalate a feud within Prime Minister David Cameron’s coalition over the nature of support granted to the
renewable and nuclear industries. The government’s legislation,
now in a draft form, is due to be introduced in the House of
Commons later this year as part of a program to lure 200 billion
pounds ($320 billion) by 2020 for upgrading electric power
plants and distribution grids.  Osborne, a Conservative, is pushing to limit subsidies for
solar and wind and spur natural gas as an alternative. He notes
that subsidies for clean energy are driving up electricity costs
for manufacturers.  Helpful for Davey  Ed Davey , the Liberal Democrat who leads the energy
department, says gutting subsidies for renewable would hurt jobs
and economic growth. Davey’s department was unable to announce
subsidy levels for wind projects last week because a debate with
the Treasury over the plan is continuing. In a statement, Davey
said the committee report would be “extremely valuable” to his
efforts to shape the legislation.  “We welcome the committee’s report,” Davey said in a
statement. “ We are determined to use the pre-legislative
scrutiny period to develop a robust and effective bill with the
interests of both consumers and investors at heart.”  A spokesman for the Treasury said it was working closely
with DECC and planning an announcement on renewable subsidies in
due course. The nation’s biggest business lobby group criticized
the government for delaying the review on subsidies and it
needed to work more quickly on the legislation.  ‘Critical Decisions’  “Major energy investments are hanging on critical
decisions the government must make in the coming weeks and
months,” said  John Cridland , director general of the
 Confederation of British Industry . “If they are to plan long-
term investments, businesses need to know what the electricity
market will look like in years to come.”  The draft legislation published in May would guarantee
prices for low-carbon electricity and pay producers for
providing back-up supply when wind power falls short. It also
includes measures to secure commitments from utilities to fund
nuclear reactors and wind farms.  It’s unclear how the electricity sector is expected to
contribute to targets for reducing Britain’s carbon dioxide
emissions, the Parliament committee said. The law also focuses
on how energy is supplied rather than on measures to reduce
electricity demand, it said.  “The pre-legislative scrutiny process has identified some
serious concerns with the proposals as they currently stand,
which could make the reforms unworkable if they are not
resolved,” the Energy and Climate Change Committee said.  Price Guarantee  Proposals to guarantee prices for low-carbon electricity
including nuclear reactors and offshore wind farms using a so-
called feed-in tariff with contracts for difference have
“become so complex that the proposal has now arguably become
unworkable,” the lawmakers said.  Under the proposal, if wholesale power prices drop below a
government-established level known as the “strike price,”
investors in nuclear power stations and renewable projects will
be compensated by suppliers up to that level. If prices are
higher, suppliers and consumers will be reimbursed by investors.  Problems with the contracts-for-difference model include
uncertainty over who will act as the counter-party to the
contracts and how many of the arrangements will be allowed, the
committee said. The panel wants the Treasury to be the ultimate
guarantor of the contracts, while Osborne wants to avoid
potential costs accruing to taxpayers.  Credit Risk  “The hybrid counterparty introduces a degree of credit
risk,” Yeo said in an interview. “It certainly should be a
single counterparty and backed by a government guarantee without
that it will be too expensive. What is so paradoxical about this
is most of the Treasury interventions are to keep the cost to
the consumer as low as possible, and here is one that will have
the result of raising consumer prices. It’s a simple error that
could be put right.”  Yeo serves as president of the U.K. Renewable Energy
Association and a director of AFC Energy, whcih makes fuel cell
technology, and TMO Renewables Ltd., whcih supplies material for
second-generation biofuels, according to Parliament filings.  The law would also remove obligations to buy renewable
energy, possibly reducing the number of independent generators
participating in the energy market, they said.  The committee suggested using a single counter-party,
underwritten by government, which would help drive down the cost
of capital. There should also be a two-step registration process
for allocating contracts and the eligibility for small-scale
feed-in-tariffs should be extended to at least 10,000 megawatts,
they said.  The government should also consider a “buyer of last
resort” or incentives to drive the use of low-carbon power to
open up the market, the panel said.  Negotiations over a strike price with investors in nuclear
power should be overseen by an independent committee of experts,
they added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  