-- Bull Rush as Commodity Wagers Rise to Three-Month High
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-07-23T21:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/bulls-ascendant-as-wagers-climb-to-three-month-high-commodities.html
Speculators raised bullish wagers on
commodities to a three-month high on mounting speculation that
more economic stimulus will boost demand for everything from oil
to metals and crop prices will keep rising as drought spreads.  Money managers raised their net-long positions across 18
U.S. futures and options by 7.5 percent to 1.13 million
 contracts  in the week ended July 17, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. Wheat holdings reached a record,
and corn bets climbed to the highest since March.  Almost $2.5 trillion was added to the value of global
equities since June 4 as investors anticipated policy makers
would step in to bolster growth. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress during testimony on July 18 that he is
prepared to act to boost the recovery and central banks from
 Europe  to  China  cut  interest rates  in the past several weeks.
The worst U.S. drought in 56 years is parching crops, and a lack
of rain is also wilting fields from  Australia  to  Russia .  “You could probably call it a miniature stampede back into
commodities,” said Jeffrey Sica, the Morristown, New Jersey-
based president of SICA Wealth Management who helps oversee more
than $1 billion of assets. “A lot of investors at this point
see that increased liquidity in the market will mean more
appreciation in raw-materials prices.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index climbed 4.9 percent
last week, capping a fourth consecutive gain that is now the
longest rally in a year. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities rose 0.6 percent, and the dollar advanced 0.2 percent
against a measure of six trading partners. Treasuries returned
0.3 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows. The GSCI
declined 2.8 percent to settle at 633.47 today.  Soybean Record  Seventeen of the 24 commodities in the S&P GSCI rose last
week, led by an 11 percent gain in wheat. Corn and soybeans rose
to records in  Chicago  today before declining.  The Fed is ready to take steps to spur expansion “as
appropriate,” Bernanke said July 18 in testimony before U.S.
lawmakers. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  reiterated that the
government will keep adjusting policy in the second half to
boost growth, the official Xinhua News Agency reported July 15.  The response from policy makers coupled with tight raw-
material supplies leaves the “case for higher commodity prices
intact,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts led by  Jeffrey Currie  in  New York  wrote in a report July 16. The bank
maintained a prediction that commodities would return 27 percent
in the next 12 months.  $153 Million  Investors pulled $153 million from raw-material funds in
the week ended July 18, according to EPFR Global, which tracks
money flows. Gold and other precious-metal outflows totaled $115
million, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company said.  The actions from global leaders may not be as pronounced as
some traders are expecting, said  David Goerz , the San Francisco-
based chief investment officer at Highmark Capital Management
Inc., which oversees about $18 billion of assets.  China won’t relax property control policies and will
instead seek to keep a “firm grip” on the real-estate market
to prevent a rebound in housing prices, Xinhua reported July 20.
 Home prices  in June rose in the most number of cities tracked by
the government in 11 months, the country’s statistics bureau
said July 18.  Even as Bernanke left open the option of taking more steps
to stimulate growth, he’s refrained from announcing specific
policies or giving a time frame. The Fed lowered interest rates
to a record in December 2008 and bought $2.3 trillion in
government and housing debt through June 2011 in two rounds of
quantitative easing known as QE1 and QE2.  Monetary Policy  “QE3 is off the table,” Goerz said. “The Fed doesn’t
want to expand its balance sheet any more than it has already.
Easy  monetary policy  is coming to an end. As a result,
commodities won’t do well.”  The S&P GSCI jumped 17 percent since reaching this year’s
low on June 22, rebounding from a  bear market , as Europe’s
leaders provided as much as 100 billion euros ($122 billion) to
Spanish banks and China reduced interest rates. On June 20, the
Fed expanded its program to replace short-term bonds with
longer-term debt by $267 billion.  The U.S. is the world’s biggest oil and corn consumer, and
China is the top user of metals, soybeans and cotton. Europe
consumes 18 percent of the world’s copper and accounts for 22
percent of oil demand, data from Barclays Plc and  BP Plc (BP/)  show.  Commodities have reached a “turning point” in the past
several weeks, Barclays Plc analysts led by  Suki Cooper  wrote in
a report July 20. Grains and soybeans will lead a second-half
recovery in prices, the bank said.  Crude Wagers  Investors increased their bullish oil bets by 4 percent to
133,165 contracts in the week ended July 17, the CFTC data show.
Gold wagers climbed 4.5 percent to 92,964, the second gain in
three weeks.  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators raised
bullish wagers in agricultural commodities by 5 percent to
825,425 contracts, the highest since September.  Money managers boosted soybean holdings for a sixth
straight week and to 252,939 contracts, the most since May 1.
Corn bets jumped 17 percent to 235,597 contracts, the most since
March 20. Wagers on a wheat rally gained 16 percent to 72,675,
the highest since the data begins in June 2006.  Grain prices have surged amid the worst U.S. drought since
1956. The S&P GSCI Agriculture Spot Index of eight commodities
jumped 39 percent since mid-June to the highest in 13 months.  Record Heat  Weather in June through July is on track to be the second-
driest in 118 years of records, and this month may be the
second-warmest ever, forecaster T-Storm Weather LLC said July
20. Conditions are the warmest and driest since 1936, the peak
of the Dust Bowl, the forecaster said.  Australia will be drier-than-normal for the next three
months, the Bureau of Meteorology said July 18. Russian farmers
will collect 46.5 million metric tons of wheat in the year that
began July 1, down 4.1 percent from 2011, researcher SovEcon
said July 19.  “Weather-related issues have certainly drawn people
back,” said  Peter Sorrentino , a senior  fund manager  at
Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati who helps oversee $14.7
billion. “It’s like a big money tap has been turned on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  