-- Bungled Bank Bailout Leaves Behind Righteous Anger
-- B y   N e i l   M .   B a r o f s k y
-- 2012-07-22T22:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/bungled-bank-bailout-leaves-behind-righteous-anger.html
In the year since I stepped down as
the special inspector general of the Troubled Asset
Relief Program, the sadly predictable consequences of the
government’s disparate treatment of  Wall Street  and Main Street
have only become worse. As the banks amass size and power, Main
Street continues to get pummeled.  Part of the current economic malaise can be traced directly
to Treasury’s betrayal of its promise to use TARP to “preserve
homeownership.” The  Home Affordable Modification Program  has
brought little meaningful improvement, with fewer than 800,000
ongoing permanent modifications as of March 31, 2012, a number
that is growing at the glacial pace of just 12,000 per month.  In June 2011, Treasury appeared to take a tentative step
toward holding the mortgage servicers accountable for the
widespread misconduct in the program by pledging to withhold the
incentive payments to three of the largest banks --  Wells Fargo (WFC) 
& Co.,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  -- until
they came into compliance with HAMP’s rules.  Released Payments  Treasury couldn’t even keep this modest commitment.
Although Wells Fargo had improved its performance and was
awarded all of its withheld incentive payments, JPMorgan Chase
and Bank of America continued to fail to meet the baseline
standard. Nonetheless, in March 2012, as part of a broader
settlement of the so-called robo-signing scandal, Treasury
released all of the withheld payments, totaling more than $170
million. As a result, the government hasn’t held any servicer
responsible for the widespread abuses of HAMP applicants, nor is
it ever likely to do so.  In return for what was touted as a $25 billion payout, the
banks received broad immunity from future civil cases arising
out of their widespread use of forged, fraudulent or completely
fabricated documents to foreclose on  homeowners .  The headline number sounds impressive, yet the banks only
had to cough up $1.5 billion to provide a paltry $2,000 to each
borrower wrongfully  foreclosed  upon, a few billion dollars more
in penalties to the states, and a few billion to provide for
borrower  refinancing . The remaining $17 billion, however, won’t
involve payouts of money, but will be met in the form of the
banks receiving “credits” for certain activities. This includes
$7 billion that will be “earned” for routine tasks related to
the housing crisis, such as bulldozing worthless houses,
donating homes to charity, and agreeing not to pursue deficiency
judgments against homeowners, whereby banks seek to force a
homeowner to pay the difference between the balance of the loan
at the time of  foreclosure  and what is recovered by the bank
from a foreclosure sale. This sounds good, but it should be
noted that these are all part of the normal course of business
for the banks.  The remaining $10 billion in credits are supposed to be
scraped together through principal reductions on “underwater”
mortgages, but that doesn’t mean that the banks themselves will
be taking $10 billion in losses. The settlement grants them
partial credit for reducing the principal on loans that they
service but don’t own, such as those contained in  mortgage-
backed securities . Worse still, they can earn additional
“credits” toward the settlement through taxpayer-funded HAMP
modifications. For example, if a servicer reduces $100,000 in
principal for a mortgage through HAMP and receives a taxpayer
incentive check for $40,000, it will still be able to claim
$60,000 in credit toward meeting its obligations under the
settlement.  Taxpayer Pays  As a result, the settlement will actually involve money
flowing, once again, from taxpayers to the banks.  Another announcement that accompanied the settlement, made
by President  Barack Obama  during his  State of the Union  address,
was the creation of a working group under the Justice
Department’s Financial Fraud Enforcement  Task Force  to
investigate toxic mortgage practices. This arose out of the
political fallout from the government’s failure to bring any
significant criminal cases related to the financial crisis
(other than my office’s case against  Lee Farkas , the former
chairman of the mortgage lender Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage
Corp.). With the statute of limitations fast approaching for
much of the conduct underlying the crisis, it seems increasingly
unlikely that any criminal cases will be brought.  It is fair to ask why more haven’t been pursued. The
president, Attorney General Eric Holder, and Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  have all answered this question by suggesting
that it was greed and bad judgment, not criminal conduct, that
contributed to the crisis, and a number of high-profile
investigations have been closed.  The answer more likely lies with the Justice Department’s
lack of sophistication and the timidity that set in after it
lost a high-profile case against two Bear Stearns Cos. hedge-
fund executives in 2009. In any event, it seems unlikely that an
11th-hour task force will result in a proliferation of handcuffs
on culpable bankers.  It is clear that the criminal-justice system has proved
ill-equipped to address the financial crisis. For that, we
needed effective regulatory reform. Instead, we got the 2010
 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act .  My fear about the inadequacy of Dodd-Frank has only gotten
worse over the past year. The top banks are 23 percent larger
than they were before the crisis. They now hold more than $8.5
trillion in assets, the equivalent of 56 percent of gross
domestic product, up from 43 percent just five years ago. The
risk in our banking system is remarkably concentrated in these
banks, which now control 52 percent of all industry assets, up
from 17 percent four decades ago. There is broad recognition
that Dodd-Frank hasn’t solved the problem it was meant to
address -- the power and influence of banks deemed too big to
fail.  More Rescues  More important, the financial markets continue to bet that
the government will once again come to the big banks’ rescue.
Creditors still give the largest banks more favorable terms than
their smaller counterparts -- a direct subsidy to those that are
already deemed too big to fail, and an incentive for others to
try to join the club. Similarly, the major banks are given
better credit ratings based on the assumption that they will be
bailed out.  As a result, the market distortions that flow from the
presumption of bailout may have gotten worse. By failing to
alter this presumption, Dodd-Frank may have inadvertently sowed
the seeds for the next financial crisis.  Although there have been calls to break up the biggest
banks, the  Financial Stability Oversight Council  has still taken
no significant action to limit their size or power, and has only
just begun to make noises about bringing nonbank financial
institutions (such as American International Group Inc.) under
its jurisdiction. Even basic steps such as creating and
implementing the new rules have lagged, with two-thirds of Dodd-
Frank’s rulemaking deadlines blown by May 1, 2012. And in some
instances, the regulators have taken a step backward.  For example, one of the best protections against future
bailouts is to ensure that banks have thick capital cushions
that can absorb potential losses. Although Dodd-Frank called for
higher capital levels to be set by the regulators for the
largest banks, they still haven’t formally done so. Worse, the
 Federal Reserve  authorized 15 of the 19 largest bank holding
companies to drain their capital through cash payouts in the
form of dividends to their shareholders and share repurchases.
These actions benefit the banks’ senior executives, who own
large amounts of stock, and increase the risk to the taxpayer
that the banks will once again have to be bailed out.  Diluted Rules  The banks have also been gaming and watering down the rules
and regulations. One of the best examples is with respect to the
 Volcker rule , which is supposed to prohibit banks from making
risky proprietary bets that could lead to large losses and
eventual bailouts. The final version contained a number of
carve-outs and exceptions that created large potential
loopholes. For example, in April 2012, Bloomberg News reported
that JPMorgan Chase had moved some of its soon-to-be banned
trading operations overseas into its London-based Treasury unit,
branding a multi-hundred-billion-dollar trading position in
synthetic  credit derivatives  as a “hedge.”  Legitimate hedging was one of the hard-fought exemptions to
the Volcker rule won by the banks, intended to permit them to
minimize risk to the  system  by allowing them to offset specific
risks from positions that may remain in their portfolios. But as
the  New York  Times and Bloomberg reported, JPMorgan’s supposed
Treasury “hedges” appeared profit-driven and were so large that
they moved markets.  After the articles warned that JPMorgan’s positions were
potentially destabilizing and were probably difficult to unwind
without “causing a dislocation in the markets,” the bank’s chief
executive officer,  Jamie Dimon , claimed such concerns were
little more than a “tempest in a teapot.”  JPMorgan recently disclosed that the trade had cost it at
least $5.8 billion.  Hopefully the incident will help embolden regulators to
better use Dodd-Frank’s tools to clamp down on risk taking. To
date, however, the response has been more accommodating. As
Geithner told Congress in March 2012 when confronted with
arguments similar to those made by the banks: “We’re going to
look at all the concerns expressed by these rules,” he said. “It
is my view that we have the capacity to address those concerns.”  Words like these presumably led one of the Volcker rule’s
authors, Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, to warn that
some at “Treasury are willing to weaken the law.” Indeed, words
like Geithner’s, when accompanied by actions such as the Fed’s
authorization of the largest banks to release capital, send what
should be a clear message. We may be in danger of quickly
returning to the pre-crisis status quo of inadequately
capitalized banks that take outsized risks while being coddled
by their over-accommodating regulators. A repeat of the
financial crisis would soon be upon us.  TARP’s Losses  As the election approaches, Treasury’s triumphant
declarations of mission accomplished for TARP have picked up
steam, focusing largely on the reduction in expected losses.
While it is good news that the program’s losses will be far less
than originally anticipated, the numbers that Treasury has been
publishing are incomplete. For example, Treasury continues to
offset expected TARP losses by declaring the more than 500
million shares of stock that the New York Fed received in return
for a pre-TARP bailout of  AIG (AIG)  as part of “Treasury’s
investment.” Similarly, Treasury’s projections don’t include, or
make reference to, the potentially enormous losses in future  tax
revenue  from AIG,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , General Motors Co., and others
that Treasury exempted through a change in Internal Revenue
Service rules.  Treasury’s focus on TARP’s financial costs, of course,
detracts from its significant nonfinancial costs, including the
worsening of “too big to fail” and the lost opportunity to
help struggling homeowners. But a separate cost -- the loss of
many Americans’ faith in their government -- may still yield a
major benefit.  The missteps by Treasury have produced a valuable
byproduct: the widespread anger that may contain the only hope
for meaningful reform. Americans should lose faith in their
government. They should deplore the captured politicians and
regulators who distributed tax dollars to the banks without
insisting that they be accountable. The American people should
be revolted by a financial system that rewards failure and
protects those who drove it to the point of  collapse  and will
undoubtedly do so again.  Only with this appropriate and justified rage can we hope
for the type of reform that will one day break our system free
from the corrupting grasp of the megabanks.  (Neil M. Barofsky served as the special inspector general
in charge of oversight of the Troubled Asset Relief Program and
is currently a senior fellow at New York University’s School of
Law. This is an excerpt from his book, “Bailout: An Inside
Account of How Washington Abandoned Main Street While Rescuing
Wall Street,” which will be published July 24 by Free Press, an
imprint of  Simon & Schuster .)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  corporate-tax reform  and on
how to make  air travel  even safer; William D. Cohan on a  merger
gone very wrong ;  Albert R. Hunt  on why this U.S.  presidential
campaign  is tame;  Simon Johnson  on why HSBC should find a CEO
who will  break up the bank ;  Pankaj Mishra  on the hidden history
of  state capitalism .  To contact the writer of this article:
Neil M. Barofsky at  neil.barofsky@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  