-- Calf’s Heart, Jesuit Eyeball Evoke Shakespeare’s World
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-07-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/calf-s-heart-jesuit-eyeball-evoke-shakespeare-s-world.html
Of the items mentioned by the
witches in “Macbeth,” there are quite a few that are not on
show in the new exhibition at the  British Museum , “Shakespeare:
Staging the World.” There is no fillet of fenny snake, for
example, nor eye of newt, toe of frog, wool of bat or tongue of
dog.  On the other hand, there is the mummified heart of a calf,
used as a charm against witches’ spells on cattle in 18th-
century  Scotland , the lantern allegedly used by Guido Fawkes
when attempting to blow up Parliament and the preserved eyeball
of a Jesuit priest executed in Worcester in 1606.  “Double, double toil and trouble”: It’s a rich brew of an
exhibition and it succeeds in summoning up the material world in
which the playwright lived.  Writers and their words are difficult subjects for museums
to display. The most dubious exhibits here are screens showing
actors performing celebrated speeches (among them Anthony Sher
as Shylock and Harriet Walter as Cleopatra).  These stir uneasily like the ghostly portraits of Hogwarts
in the Harry Potter books, and from time to time declaim. As a
result, like Prospero’s isle in “The Tempest,” the galleries
are “full of noises.” But, as various Shakespearean characters
remark, “tis no great matter.”  Early Metropolis  Otherwise, the exhibition is full of objects and
information that put the great dramas easier in historical
context. Furthermore, it has a striking thesis: The late 16th-
and early 17th-century  London  that Shakespeare (1564-1616)
inhabited was already on its way to becoming the global
metropolis that we know -- and constantly hear about -- today.  In the period that Shakespeare was active, the English were
already morphing into the British. With the advent of James I in
1603, the first monarch to rule jointly over Scotland and
 England  -- Wales and Ireland already having been conquered by
the English -- the kingdom for the first time became united.  Although the formal Act of Union did not come until more
than a century later, the exhibition and the excellent
accompanying book by Jonathan Bate and Dora Thornton suggest
that Shakespeare moved rapidly from thinking of himself as
English to writing about “British” history in “ King Lear ”
and “Cymbeline.” One of the most intriguing exhibits is a
draft of six proposed designs for a union flag dating from
around 1604 (none quite as nifty as the actual  Union Jack ).  Scottish Witches  Shakespeare lived in a society that was split by religious
divisions, and edgy about conspiracies and what we would
nowadays call terrorism, of which the Gunpowder Plot of 1605 was
the most spectacular example. James I believed that his life had
been threatened earlier by storms conjured up by Scottish
witches, real-life equivalents of the sisters in “Macbeth.”  By that date, Britain was already in regular contact not
only with other parts of  Europe  but also with much of the wider
world. On display are paintings of the inhabitants of the Brave
New World of the Americas by the Elizabethan artist  John White .
The experiences of early explorers fed into “The Tempest,”
which is set on a distant island.  The portrait of a Moroccan ambassador to the court of
Elizabeth I presents a possible real-life model for Othello.
Others lived all around the playwright. Shakespeare’s London
was, it seems, already multiethnic. Recent research, quoted in
the book, suggests that in Elizabethan London around 900 out of
a population of 200,000 were of African descent.  Altogether, this is an intelligent and enjoyable affair.
Shakespeare emerges from it as what he somehow always manages to
seem -- highly contemporary.  “Shakespeare: Staging the World,” supported by  BP Plc (BP/) , is
at the  British Museum  through Nov. 25. Information:
http//www.britishmuseum.org/.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts and
 John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford, in London, at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 