-- Cellcom Lowest Signals Need for New Markets: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-07-22T15:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/cellcom-slump-signals-need-for-new-markets-israel-overnight.html
Israel’s mobile phone market has
grown enough to ensure sufficient competition in the industry
and the government is encouraging companies to enter the fixed-
line and cloud computing markets to augment revenue.  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) ,  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR)  and  Bezeq
Israeli Telecommunication Corp. (BEZQ) , the country’s three largest
mobile phone operators, lost more than $15 billion in market
value this year as government measures boosted competition in
the industry and reduced costs for customers. Cellcom fell 5.9
percent to 21.3 shekels, or the equivalent of $5.32, the lowest
level on record at the close in Tel Aviv today. Partner declined
6.9 percent to 12.8 shekels, or $3.20, the lowest since February
2003.  “The number of players in the market is the number we
wanted,” Eden Bar Tal, the director general at Israel’s
Ministry of Communication, said in a telephone interview on July
19. “Players who want to increase revenues should do this by
providing additional services and not by taking advantage of a
lack of competition.”  The three stocks are the worst performers on the benchmark
TA-25 Index this year as the measure lags behind the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and the  Nasdaq Composite Index. (CCMP)  The  Bloomberg
Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most-traded Israeli companies in
 New York  recorded the largest weekly rise this year as  Mellanox
Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  surged 35 percent.  The government required service providers cut fees by
disbanding inter-network call charges and opening up the sector
to new competition.  ‘Heating Up’  Hot Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT) , along with Golan Telecom
Ltd., moved into Israel’s mobile-phone space on May 14. Golan,
partly owned by French entrepreneur Xavier Niel, began offering
unlimited wireless services for less than 100 shekels, or
$24.96, per month.  The products compete with packages of Cellcom, Partner and
Bezeq, which controlled 95 percent of the Israeli mobile-phone
market, according to data from the Ministry of Communication.  “Pricing wars are heating up,” Michael Klahr, an analyst
at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a an e-mailed report on July 16. New
operators like Golan Telecom and Hot will grab 7.7 percent of
mobile phone subscribers from the incumbents within a year, a
number that is higher than initial expectations, Klahr said.  Bezeq, the Tel Aviv-based company, which operates in the
mobile phone industry through its unit Pelephone, gained 3
percent to 4.17 shekels, trimming this year’s loss to 39
percent.  ‘Dynamic and Developing’  Cellcom,  Israel ’s largest mobile phone provider, fell to
the lowest level on record last week in New York as Partner, the
nation’s second-largest, capped its biggest five-day slump in
two months. The company’s New York shares have fallen 62 percent
to $3.39 this year.  Rami Levi Chain Stores Hashikma Marketing 2006 Ltd. (RMLI) ,
Israel’s third-largest supermarket operator, began offering
mobile-phone services in December in cooperation with Pelephone.
The company said last month that the service now has 56,000
customers and that it’s in talks with other operators to provide
cheaper wireless packages to consumers.  “The telecom market is dynamic and developing all the
time,” Bar Tal said. “Players who want to increase revenue
should do this by providing additional services and not by
taking advantage of a lack of competition.” Israel has a mobile
phone subscription penetration rate of 130.2 percent compared to
130.5 percent for Europe, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries.  Israel’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  has dropped 1.2 percent this year,
lagging behind an advance of 8.4 percent for the S&P Index and
12.3 percent on the Nasdaq Composite Index.  Mellanox Surges  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland , has about 60 companies trading on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any nation outside the U.S. after
China. The country is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  The Bloomberg Israel-U.S. index recorded the biggest weekly
advance since December 2011, led by gains for Mellanox, the
largest company on the  gauge .  Mellanox fell 3.4 percent to 361 shekels, or the equivalent
of $90.12, in  Tel Aviv  today. The New York-traded shares reached
$89.24 last week.  The company more than doubled its second-quarter sales over
the same period last year and its third-quarter revenue forecast
was 50 percent more than analysts’ estimates.  Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW) , the provider of Internet-firewall
technology, climbed 27 percent to $53.13 in New York in its
public offering debut on July 20. The company’s founder Nir Zuk
was a former engineer at competitor  Check Point Software
Technologies Ltd. (CHKP)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  