-- Colorado’s Hickenlooper Says Gun Control Won’t Stop Evil
-- B y   J i m   R u b i n
-- 2012-07-22T16:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/colorado-s-hickenlooper-says-gun-control-won-t-stop-evil.html
Tragedies like the “act of evil”
that claimed 12 lives in a movie theater shooting in Aurora,
 Colorado , may not be preventable by stricter gun controls, the
state’s governor said.  “I’m not sure there is any way in a free society to be
able” to stop a deranged individual from assembling a deadly
arsenal, Governor John Hickenlooper, a Democrat, said today on
CNN’s “ State of the Union .”  “If there were no assault weapons available and no this or
no that, this guy is going find something, right?” he said.
“He’s going to know how to create a bomb.”  Police and FBI agents used a robot yesterday to disarm a
tripwire and clear bombs from the apartment of James Holmes, 24,
the suspect in a shooting that killed 12 people and wounded 58
in a theater in the Denver suburb of Aurora. The tragedy has
reignited debate over gun controls, with advocates urging
consideration of tougher laws and stricter enforcement.  “Weapons of war don’t belong on the streets,” Democratic
Senator  Dianne Feinstein , of  California , said today on “Fox
News Sunday.” “We’ve got to sit down and really come to grips
with what is sold to the average person in America.”  Appearing on the same Fox program, Republican Senator  Ron Johnson  of Wisconsin said, “I don’t think society can keep
sick, demented individuals from obtaining weapons.” He
suggested that a “responsible individual” who was armed in the
theater might have been able to stop “some of these deaths.”  Deadly Rampage  The shootings occurred at about 12:30 a.m. on July 20
during a showing of the new Batman movie, “The Dark Knight
Rises.” The rampage was the deadliest shooting in Colorado
since the Columbine High School massacre in April 1999 and the
worst mass shooting in the U.S. since November 2009, when 13
people were killed at Fort Hood in  Texas .  The shooter opened fire during a lull in the movie after
the opening sequence and threw a pair of tear-gas canisters,
witnesses said. Authorities seized two .40 caliber pistols, a
Glock G22 and a Glock G23; a Smith & Wesson M&P .223 caliber
semiautomatic rifle; and a Remington 870 Express Tactical 12-
gauge shotgun, said a federal official unauthorized to speak
publicly and who requested anonymity.  Investigators found that Holmes began buying the weapons in
May at stores in the Aurora region, the official said. The
suspect hadn’t committed offenses that would have raised alarms
during background checks, the official said.  Hickenlooper said on “State of the Union” that the
authorities are still seeking a motive for the attack and are
learning more “moment by moment” about the suspect.  Obama to Colorado  President  Barack Obama , who flies to Colorado today to meet
with victims of the shooting and their families, hasn’t
addressed the issue of  gun control  since the attack. Similarly,
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  hasn’t commented on the
subject. Both men suspended election campaigning after the
shooting spree.  New York  City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  called on the
candidates to speak out and give specifics about “what they are
going to do about guns.”  Bloomberg, an advocate of stricter gun controls, is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Representative Ed Perlmutter, a Colorado Democrat, said
today on CBS’s “Face the Nation” that Congress should
reinstate a ban on assault weapons in the U.S. Pointing out that
the suspect had enough ammunition “for a small army,”
Perlmutter said “there’s something wrong with that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Rubin in Washington at 
 jimrubin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  