-- Danish Bank Group Rejects Libor Parallels in Cibor Probe
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-07-23T13:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/danish-bank-group-rejects-libor-parallels-in-cibor-probe.html
The Danish Bankers Association will
investigate whether the  Copenhagen interbank offered rate  was
manipulated as it dismisses parallels with the scandal over the
equivalent London-based rate that led to the departure of
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond .  The results of the Cibor probe are due to be released by
the “end of the summer” and will be based on interviews with
all stakeholders, including pension funds and mortgage lenders,
Joergen A. Horwitz, the group’s director, said in an interview.  “I have absolute confidence in Cibor,” he said. “But it
may be a problem if other people don’t.”  Cibor, which Business Minister Ole Sohn said July 10 should
be probed after bank SEB AB said the rate had been quoted too
high, is the benchmark for about 20 percent, or $70 billion, of
all Danish residential and commercial property loans. The rate,
which is based on quotes by eight banks including  Danske Bank
A/S (DANSKE) ,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and  Barclays Capital , shows what banks say
they are willing to lend at. Libor, in contrast, is the rate at
which banks say they can borrow.  “There’s no connection between Libor and Cibor,” Horwitz
said. “It’s a completely different issue.”  Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest bank, was fined a
record 290 million pounds ($450 million) last month for
attempting to rig Libor and Euribor to manage its reputation
during the financial crisis and boost earnings before it. At
least 12 banks including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are being investigated
for manipulating Libor.  Reinvigorated  The Danish central bank handed Cibor publication over to
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. in April last year, saying it could no
longer “assess the quality” of the rate. The Libor scandal has
since reinvigorated Danish lawmaker efforts to investigate
Cibor. Kim Andersen, business spokesman for the opposition
 Liberal Party , said parliament needs to take seriously the risk
of local interbank rate rigging as the investigation around
Libor deepens.  “We also need to look at the matter in a Danish context,”
he told Copenhagen-based newspaper Berlingske in a July 4
article. “We need to find out whether there are parallels to
what we’ve seen with Barclays in  England .”  The investigation by the Danish Bankers Association will
probably be finished before a separate study being conducted by
the government, which Sohn said this month won’t be ready until
September.  Financial Problem  The Danish Confederation of Industry, which represents
10,000 companies, said finding out whether banks have set Cibor
too high is critical as one-third of members report difficulty
in getting affordable funding.  “We haven’t heard any specific complaints about the way
that Cibor is collected, but the financial situation is a
problem for many of our firms,” Klaus Rasmussen, the industry
group’s chief economist, said today. “They can just see that
the banks are getting more and more interest from them.”  The confederation will wait for the conclusion of the
government panel’s investigation before deciding what action to
take, he said. “We have noticed that the central bank withdrew
from making the statistics for Cibor. Since then we have asked
ourselves, what is going on?”  Horwitz said his association is also looking into the
merits of an alternative rate based on the so-called Cita, or
the  Copenhagen interbank tomorrow/next average . The central bank
last year proposed Cita-swap rates be used as a base for a
supplementary rate to Cibor in an effort to boost confidence in
 Denmark ’s interbank market.  Cita Proposal  Previous efforts to supplement Cibor with Cita stalled
because there were too few international banks willing to
provide quotes, according to the association.  “Most Danish lenders quoting Cibor are also quoting Cita,
while we weren’t able to get enough quotes from foreign banks,”
Horwitz said. “We’re now making a renewed effort as there is
now a demand for another reference rate.”  Meanwhile, Cibor was quoted at a record low today. Three-
month Cibor was fixed at 0.355 percent, the lowest since at
least 1988 and down from 1.68 percent a year earlier. The
highest level the rate was ever quoted at was in 1992, when it
reached 23.5 percent. In October 2008, one month after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Cibor was fixed as
high as 6.4367 percent.  Negative Rates  Cibor has continued to decline since July 5, when the
central bank lowered policy rates to record lows, bringing its
deposit rate below zero for the first time. Banks depositing
funds for one week with the central bank, which defends to
krone’s peg to the euro, now need to pay 0.2 percent to do so.  Borrowing costs on Denmark’s bond-funded mortgages have
also sunk to record lows as the AAA rated nation attracts
investors looking for alternatives to euro-denominated assets.
Denmark’s government debt will be about 40 percent of gross
domestic product this year and next, less than half the euro-
zone average, the European Commission said on May 11.  Nordea Kredit, the mortgage arm of Nordea Bank, is ignoring
warnings about Cibor fixing and basing a new mortgage-backed
bond on the rate. The bank argues that even if the rate were set
too high, investors will ensure that borrowers don’t suffer.  Professionals  “Home buyers won’t pay too high or too low an  interest
rate  as the effective Danish mortgage market, dominated by
professional investors, will quickly compensate for either too
high or too low a rate setting,” Lise Bergmann, a housing
market economist at Nordea, said in an interview this month.  Bonds financing the cheapest Danish home loans with annual
rate adjustments yield less than 1 percent. The average interest
rate paid on all loans was 3.314 percent in May, down from 3.324
percent in April, the central bank said June 28. Taking  tax
deductions  and inflation into account, the interest rate paid by
most households was 0.06 percent, according to the Danish
Mortgage Bankers Federation.  “It is paramount for us that all market participants have
full confidence in the reference rates we use,” Horwitz said.
“That’s all we care about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 Plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  