-- Diamond’s Exit Fells Pillar in London’s Gekko Generation
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-07-23T08:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/diamond-s-exit-fells-final-pillar-in-london-s-gekko-generation.html
American  Robert Diamond  once mocked
“Little England” regulators for failing to match his global
ambitions. He sparked a power shift that cost him his job and
changed the way the world’s top financial center is governed.  When Mervyn King and  Adair Turner , the U.K.’s top two
financial overseers, agreed to summon  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s chairman to
the Bank of England on July 2 and said they had lost confidence
in Diamond, London’s best-known banker, they were making clear
that the rules of the road had changed.  “The signal to the City has got to be that if you behave
badly you will be removed from your employment,” said  Paul Myners , the government’s financial-services minister from 2008
to 2010 and former chairman of Gartmore Investment Management
Ltd. “It will send shivers down the spine of anybody who is up
to no good.”  Diamond’s rise and fall mirrors London’s ascension to the
world’s No. 1 money center through a decade of light-touch
regulation to one grappling with cutbacks and the Libor
interest-rate fixing probe, the latest in a series of scandals
that have provoked public outrage. His departure marks a
watershed moment for regulation in a city struggling to
reconcile the wealth created by its financial firms with their
potential for losses that threaten the country’s entire economy.  Cultural Shift  Blamed for failing to prevent the biggest financial crisis
since the Great Depression, the Bank of England and the
 Financial Services Authority  are remaking regulation and
attempting to change a culture exemplified by Gordon Gekko in
the 1987 film ‘ ‘Wall Street .’’ Diamond, who 18 months ago pushed
back against popular anger by saying the period of banks’
“remorse and apology” should end, is the most prominent
example of regulators reclaiming the clout they were reticent to
use in the previous decade.  “The authorities have always had power,” said  Martin Taylor , the former Barclays CEO who hired Diamond and now says
he should have fired him for presiding over losses on Russian
debt in 1998. “They seem at last to be ready to use it.”  King told Barclays Chairman Marcus Agius that Diamond, 60,
no longer had the backing of the Bank of England or the FSA a
day before he resigned, the governor testified before
Parliament’s  Treasury Committee  on July 17. “You handed him a
loaded revolver,” said  Andrew Tyrie , the committee’s chairman.  “The world has changed,” King, 64, said at the hearing,
adding he couldn’t have acted as he did before the government’s
decision to move the FSA’s powers to the Bank of England
starting next year.  Record Fine  “We would have never done this back in 2007 and 2008,”
Turner, chairman of the FSA, said to the committee. “We have
been on a journey toward a tougher style of supervision in all
sorts of ways.”  Diamond’s departure came a week after Barclays was fined a
record 290 million pounds ($455 million) for rigging the London
interbank offered rate, the global benchmark for $500 trillion
of securities. Barclays,  founded  by Quakers in 1690, was
criticized by the FSA for gaming regulations and using
accounting ploys in the months beforehand. Political leaders
including Prime Minister David Cameron and Labour leader  Ed Miliband  have ratcheted up their critiques of the industry.  “It was gently, gently light touch regulation and the
banks and many other people could see loads of ways to increase
the bottom line,” said Brian Winterflood, founder of market-
maker  Winterflood Securities Ltd.  “It will be a new start.”  Big Bang  Diamond, one of nine children born to suburban Boston
teachers, came to London in 1988 to run fixed-income trading for
Morgan Stanley International. It was two years after the so-
called Big Bang, when U.K. Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher 
deregulated financial markets, attracting capital and talent and
the beginning of a 25-year boom in securities trading.  “There was a fundamental opening of the chicken coop to
the foxes,” said Michael Kirkwood, who worked in London during
that time and rose to become U.K. chairman of  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in
a 31-year career at the bank.  The American influence on the City was palpable as U.S.
banks took over smaller British broking firms, said Martin
Vander Weyer, a historian and journalist who wrote “ Falling
Eagle: The Decline of Barclays Bank ” (Phoenix, 2000). The
Americans “got up early, worked late and didn’t drink port at
lunchtime,” he said.  In the more than two decades since the Big Bang, London has
grown into the world’s top global financial center ahead of New
York and Hong Kong, according to research firm  Z/Yen Group Ltd. 
The number of people employed in London finance has increased 63
percent to 200,000 while the contribution of financial services
to gross domestic product has increased to 9 percent in 2010
from 6.5 percent in 1992, according to  TheCityUK , a lobbying
group. The industry today accounts for 12 percent of tax
receipts, more than any other sector.  Barclays Capital  Diamond joined Barclays in 1996 when the bank was selling
off parts of Barclays de Zoete Wedd, its investment banking
unit. He became CEO of the rump group, renamed Barclays Capital,
and focused on fixed income and foreign exchange.  Over the next 15 years he expanded profits and headcount
and made Barclays Capital the bank’s most  profitable unit . The
investment bank built by Diamond posted 2.97 billion pounds of
pretax profit at its investment bank last year compared with 207
million pounds when he joined in 1996. It was number one in
global fixed income last year and in the top five for mergers
and acquisitions, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “He never took his foot off the pedal,” said Vander
Weyer, who worked for Barclays and was a board director at BZW.
Diamond was “the best trading floor chief of his era in London.
He built a very substantial business for Barclays from the quite
unpromising thing he inherited.”  Lehman Acquisition  Despite his success, he lost out on the CEO job in 2003 to
 John Varley , the finance director who married into one of
Barclays’s founding families. Varley persuaded Diamond to stay,
and he continued to build investment banking, purchasing the
North American arm of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.
Diamond had wanted to buy all of Lehman, a deal that was blocked
by then Chancellor Alistair Darling and the FSA.  “Couldn’t have gone more poorly, very frustrating. Little
England,” Diamond said in a BlackBerry message to Robert Steel,
then the U.S. Treasury Department’s undersecretary for domestic
finance, according to  Andrew Ross Sorkin ’s “Too Big Too Fail”
(Viking/Allen Lane, 2009). Diamond said in a 2010 interview he
regretted sending the message.  Diamond was finally rewarded with the CEO’s job in 2011.  Long known as one of London’s best-paid bankers -- earning
at least 120 million pounds in pay and bonuses since becoming a
Barclays board member in 2005, according to Manifest Information
Services Ltd. -- Diamond also became the poster-boy for banker
bashing.  ‘Unacceptable Face’  Many of his top Barclays deputies were Americans, and he
counted Rolling Stones singer  Mick Jagger  and golfer  Phil Mickelson  among his friends. He was labeled “the unacceptable
face of banking” in 2010 by then U.K. Business Secretary  Peter Mandelson  and “The Real Life Gordon Gekko” by the London-based
Daily Mail tabloid.  “He was the most-high profile banker and the most highly
paid, so he came to symbolize the whole bank culture,” Vander
Weyer said.  Since the financial crisis of 2008, the U.K. government
pledged at least 1 trillion pounds at its peak in direct
investments, loan underwriting and capping losses, the costliest
undertaking in British history outside of the world wars.  A generation of bankers who fueled the financial-services
boom up to 2007 are now either out of work or no longer in their
former jobs, including  Fred Goodwin  and Johnny Cameron of  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Andy Hornby  and Peter Cummings of
HBOS Plc and Adam Applegarth of Northern Rock Plc.  FSA Letter  While Barclays avoided a government bailout by raising
capital in Qatar and  Abu Dhabi , Diamond lost his job due to an
accumulation of bad blood with regulators, not just Libor, King
and Turner made clear at the Treasury hearing. In an April 10
letter to Barclays’s chairman, Turner spelled out a series of
concerns over several years, mostly around the way the bank was
calculating its capital levels.  “It is possible to sail close to the wind once, you can
sail close to the wind twice, maybe even three times,” King
testified at the hearing. “But when it gets to four or five
times and becomes a regular pattern of behavior, you do have to
ask questions about the navigational skills of the captain on
the bridge.”  The government, in an attempt to prevent a rerun of the
regulatory missteps from the financial crisis, plans to abolish
the FSA next year and move its powers to the Bank of England,
the main regulator until 1997, in the biggest regulatory shakeup
in 15 years.  Regulatory Remake  Under the new system, the Bank of England will oversee two
bodies as well as continuing to operate as the lender of last
resort. The Prudential Regulation Authority will oversee banks
and the Financial Conduct Authority will police markets.  The plan effectively kills off the regulatory regime whose
light-touch approach has been blamed for failing to prevent the
near-collapse of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and RBS as well as the
run on Northern Rock.  Even as it gains new regulatory authority, the Bank of
England was grilled at the Treasury hearings on whether it did
enough to curb the manipulation of Libor, the latest in the
financial scandals rooted in London.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
trading loss of at least $5.8 billion and the alleged $2.3
billion fraud at UBS AG happened in London.  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and Lehman Brothers booked transactions
in London that helped lead to their downfall.  ‘Latest Watershed’  “It looks like the Bank of England was sleeping on the
job,” said Kent Matthews, a finance professor at Cardiff
University Business School and former researcher at the central
bank. “They may be capable of taking on the regulatory powers,
but the question is whether they have the credibility.”  While the FSA, not the Bank of England, was primarily
responsible for financial regulation until now, not everyone is
convinced the new regime will make much difference. Winterflood,
who began working in the so-called Square Mile financial
district in 1953, says no amount of regulation can stop market
abuses happening again.  “It’s the latest watershed, but it’s not the first and it
won’t be the last,”  he said. “In 25 years’ time there will be
people who breach and break every rule in the book and people
will be ripped off and nothing will have changed.”  Diamond, who came to the City when he was 36 and was the
oldest CEO of London’s largest banks by the time he resigned,
declined to comment for this story.  Shares Decline  “My motivation has always been to do what I believed to be
in the best interests of Barclays,” he said in a statement July
3, announcing his resignation. “The external pressure placed on
Barclays has reached a level that risks damaging the franchise -
I cannot let that happen.”  Barclays’s  shares  were down as much as 4.7 percent today in
London trading. Michael Rake, chairman of discount airline
EasyJet Plc, said today he doesn’t want to be considered as a
candidate for the same post at Barclays, complicating the
lender’s search for a replacement for Agius.  Vander Weyer, the Barclays’s historian, says there are only
so many bank scandals the public can endure.  “There’s a point at which the public, the politicians, the
business community are sick to the back teeth of one story after
another about misbehavior and incompetence of banks,” he said.
“It feels like a turning point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  