-- Does Your Airline Pilot Know How to Escape From a Stall?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-22T22:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/does-your-airline-pilot-know-how-to-escape-from-a-stall-.html
These days, there’s a good reason
fear of flying is classified as a phobia: Fatal airline
accidents are exceedingly rare.  They could be made rarer. When planes do crash, the No. 1
cause is pilot loss of control. From 2001 to 2010,  1,756 people 
died in 20 such disasters. About half of these accidents
involved aerodynamic  stall , which is when the wings become so
sharply angled into the wind that they no longer generate lift
and the plane becomes dead weight. If stall-related accidents
could be avoided, airplane fatalities might drop by as much as a
quarter.  The just-released  report  on Air France Flight 447, which
plunged into the ocean off  Brazil  in 2009, killing all 228
people aboard, points the way forward. In it, France’s Bureau of
Enquiry and Analysis for Civil Aviation concluded that current
training poorly prepares pilots for coping with aerodynamic
stall.  As the  Federal Aviation Administration  works on new
training rules for U.S. airlines, due next year, it should pay
particular attention to three training flaws cited in the French
report, all of which can be applied to American aviation.  The French report concluded, first, that commercial pilots,
who receive some stall training at low altitude, don’t get it at
high altitude, which is where the problems started on the Air
 France  flight. The thin air high up leaves pilots a narrow
safety margin in which to conduct a stall recovery: Aircraft
have to fly fast enough to stay aloft yet slow enough to remain
structurally sound.  Pilots of small planes practice diagnosing and recovering
from stalls using actual aircraft, but it’s too risky and
expensive for the major airlines to do this in their planes,
which can  cost  as much as a few hundred million dollars apiece.
Thus, high-altitude conditions need to be programmed into
scenarios on the flight simulators that airline pilots use to
train.  Second, the report found that pilots aren’t thoroughly
trained to deal with sudden developments. Flight 447’s pilots
were confounded when they lost airspeed readings because of a
malfunctioning part; one of the pilots inadvertently put the
plane into the stall that doomed it. French investigators wrote
that training scenarios are too familiar to pilots and don’t
sufficiently surprise them or test them with harrowing
situations. In light of this observation, American aviation
officials would do well to scrutinize the simulations used by
U.S. airlines to make sure they’re challenging and ever-
changing.  Finally, simulators themselves need to be improved so they
can better replicate stall conditions. This was also the
conclusion of the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board’s
 examination  of the 2009 crash of a Buffalo, New York-bound
Pinnacle Airlines Corp. Colgan Air flight, in which 50 people
died. Today’s devices can train commercial pilots how to avoid
getting into stalls but  not how to recover  from them.  For decades, the U.S. military has operated excellent
simulations for its aircraft, having collected vast data on how
the planes behave when they stall. Comparable information has
not been developed for the commercial aircraft fleet. According
to  NASA research , though, it can be, using wind-tunnel testing
and our current knowledge of aerodynamics.  It’s clear that more training would help. The safety board
report on the 2009 Buffalo crash pointed out that although
pilots are taught to drop a plane’s nose during a stall, they
have done the opposite in one fatal accident after another.  Training adjustments and innovations addressing other major
crash causes -- including wind shear, the icing of wings and the
inability of pilots to see unlit mountaintops at night -- have
produced a drastic decline in airline fatalities over the past
decade. In fact, an American child is as likely to become
president as to die on any single flight. With the right
reforms, aerodynamic stall might be added to the list of
aviation problems largely conquered.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  corporate-tax reform ; William
D. Cohan on a  merger gone very wrong ;  Albert R. Hunt  on why this
U.S.  presidential campaign  is tame;  Simon Johnson  on why HSBC
should find a CEO who will  break up the bank ;  Pankaj Mishra  on
the hidden history of  state capitalism ;  Neil Barofsky  on the
 failings of TARP .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net .
AF FP <Equity>
PNCLQ US <Equity> 