-- The One Capitalism That Dare Not Speak Its Name
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-07-22T22:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/the-one-capitalism-that-dare-not-speak-its-name-pankaj-mishra.html
On Dec. 26, 1992, a year after the
Soviet Union imploded and lurched to embrace American-style
capitalism, the Economist editorialized about a “universal
agreement that there was no serious alternative to free-market
capitalism as the way to organize economic life.”  Since its origins in mid-19th century Britain, the
Economist has been the main propaganda organ for the
neoclassical ideology of the free market (minimal government,
invisible hand, etc.). It is the job of all ideologues to make
their own preferred political and economic system seem natural
and perfect. Still, someone in that 1992 editorial meeting ought
to have said, “Not so fast.”  In a special  report  on state capitalism last January, the
Economist admitted that “the era of free-market triumphalism has
come to a juddering halt.” Liberal capitalism in the U.K. and
the U.S. isn’t just convulsed with internal crises caused by
unregulated financiers. It now faced “a potent alternative”:
state capitalism, which has on its side one of the world’s
biggest economies --  China  -- and some of its most powerful
companies --Russia’s Gazprom OAO,  China Mobile Ltd. (CHL) , DP World
Ltd., and Emirates Airline.  Stunning Reversal  “Across much of the developing world,” Bloomberg
Businessweek recently reported, “state capitalism -- in which
the state either owns companies or plays a major role in
supporting or directing them -- is replacing the free market.”
From 2004 through 2009, the article points out, “120 state-owned
companies made their debut on the Forbes list of the world’s
largest corporations, while 250 private companies fell off it.”  What explains this stunning reversal for Anglo-American
neoliberalism? Or is it that we have just emerged, blinking,
from a long period of ideological delusion in which we were
unable to see the world as it actually is?  The last 20 years of globalization spawned no greater
article of faith than that selling state-owned corporations,
inviting foreign investment, and deregulating prices and markets
would encourage growth, and even introduce democracy.  There were early signs warning against a scenario in which
nation-states paved the way for globalizers. Russia’s disastrous
market reforms in the 1990s led to the plunder of national
resources by an oligarchy and general impoverishment and mass
trauma until an authoritarian figure --  Vladimir Putin  --
stepped in to restore the state’s authority over strategic
industries.  Introspection can’t be easy for the financial periodicals
that were cheerleading Russia’s calamitously “free” market for
much of the 1990s. Thus, the Economist’s abridged account of
modern state capitalism: According to its editors, the sobering
example of Russia’s post-1991 collapse was what apparently
convinced Chinese leaders that they needed to blend state
intervention with private enterprise. And the contemporary form
of state capitalism was developed by Singapore under its
founding father  Lee Kuan Yew .  History! Actually, the idea that the state had a vital role
to play in economic development and income redistribution has
been dominant in most parts of the world for much of the last
two centuries. President  Franklin Roosevelt ’s New Deal even
introduced it into the political mainstream of the U.S., where
it lingered for decades thereafter.  Rising Sun  Perhaps the most striking omission in recent accounts of
state capitalism is how  Japan  charted its path from a developing
to developed nation. The Japanese state was closely involved in
building up domestic industries and finding overseas markets for
them.  Japan’s state capitalism became a model for countries
across East  Asia , including Singapore (which, it should be said,
is simply too small and exceptional as a financial center and
trading port to hold historical lessons for larger countries).  So why are Japan’s successes and its regional variations in
East Asia airbrushed out of the history of modern capitalism?  In the 1970s and 1980s, when the promise of prosperity
first came to be linked with privatization, deregulation and
minimal governments, or the so-called  Washington Consensus , the
 World Bank  and neoclassical economists such as  Milton Friedman 
began to credit the free market for the East Asian “miracle.”  In this particular economic history, the allegedly free
markets of Japan, South Korea,  Taiwan  and Singapore were
counterposed to the stagnant, centrally planned “socialist”
economies of  India  and China. (The discourse was extremely
influential; you don’t have to look hard today to find free-
market reformers in India and China invoking the example of East
Asia).  Things were, of course, a lot more complicated. Japan had
long followed its own model, in which government interacted
closely with business in order to give the latter a competitive
advantage in international markets.  In his 1982 book “ MITI and the Japanese Miracle ,” the
scholar Chalmers Johnson, later known for his excoriation of
 U.S. foreign policy , demonstrated the central role that Japan’s
Ministry of International Trade and Industry played in the
country’s development and in giving Japanese firms a competitive
advantage -- a role that began in the early 20th century.  Japan’s success had keen observers and imitators across
Asia. The South Korean leader Park Chung Hee, who initiated
 South Korea  into its rapid economic growth, once told the
American journalist and scholar  Frank Gibney  that he had
consciously modeled his country’s developmental capitalism on
Japan’s example since the Meiji Restoration in the 19th century.  Model Capitalists  The Japanese, eager to export their model across East Asia,
 balked  at their appropriation into the new narrative of
neoliberal capitalism. “ The East Asian Miracle ,” a World Bank
report in 1993 funded by the Japanese government, conceded the
role of government intervention.  There were other conscientious objectors to the laissez-
faire orthodoxy of the 1980s and 1990s. The idea that the state
essentially prevents growth and general happiness was identified
as a peculiarly Anglo-American prejudice by James Fallows in his
book “Looking at the Sun: The Rise of the New East Asian
Economic and Political System.” In “The Rise of the Rest,” the
MIT economist Alice Amsden argued that latecomers to
industrialization -- India, China,  Turkey ,  Brazil  -- had no
choice but to intervene in local markets.  Such arguments still left out the geopolitical motivations
and domestic considerations -- to be addressed in the next
installment of this article -- behind the Japanese and now
Chinese preference for state capitalism. Still, they do make you
marvel at the insidious influence of laissez-faire ideology in
the previous two decades -- how it created, among other things,
a general amnesia about the original Asian centers of state
capitalism.  ( Pankaj Mishra , whose new book, “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of Asia,” will be
published in August, is a Bloomberg View columnist, based in
 London  and Mashobra, India. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  corporate-tax reform  and on
how to make  air travel  even safer; William D. Cohan on a  merger
gone very wrong ;  Albert R. Hunt  on why this U.S.  presidential
campaign  is tame;  Simon Johnson  on why HSBC should find a CEO
who will  break up the bank ;  Neil Barofsky  on the  failings of
TARP .  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 