-- British Open Winner Els Sympathizes With Scott After Collapse
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-07-22T23:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/els-wins-second-british-open-title-after-scott-s-late-collapse.html
Ernie Els could sympathize with  Adam Scott  after his friend’s late collapse handed him the British
Open championship.  Els won golf’s oldest major by one shot yesterday after
Scott bogeyed the final four holes at Royal Lytham & St. Annes
in northwest  England . It gave the South African his second Open
title and fourth major championship.  “I really feel for my buddy Scotty,” Els said at a news
conference. “I’ve been there before. I’ve blown majors before
and golf tournaments before. I just hope he doesn’t take it as
hard as I did.”  Scott, 32, appeared to be headed for his first major title 
as he held a four-shot lead with four holes to play. The run of
bogeys, combined with a 15-foot birdie putt by Els on the final
hole, snatched it away from him.  Els shot 2-under-par 68 in the final round and made four
birdies over the final nine holes, including at 18, to finish
with a 7-under-par total of 273.  Australia ’s Scott had his worst
round of the tournament with 75 after shooting in the 60s the
first three days.  “I know I’ve let a really great chance slip through my
fingers,” Scott told reporters. “Somehow I’ll look back and
take the positives from it. I don’t think I’ve ever played this
well in a major championship.”  Sweet Sixteen  Els is the 16th different player to win in the past 16
majors. His victory ends a run of nine straight first-time
champions at golf’s four biggest events. He’s the second
straight 42-year-old to win the Open after  Darren Clarke  of
 Northern Ireland .  Els also won the tournament in 2002. It’s the second-
longest gap between victories at the Open behind Henry Cotton,
who went 11 years after his 1937 win.  “I’m still numb,” said Els, who also has two U.S. Open
titles. “I haven’t been in this position in 10 years, so it’s
just crazy, crazy, crazy getting here.”  Els started play on the last day six shots behind Scott and
bogeyed the second and ninth holes to fall to 3 under. He began
his charge with a birdie at the 10th and followed with two more
at the 12th and 14th to move into second place at 6-under.  After three straight pars, he rolled in the birdie putt on
18 that brought a roar from the crowd. He then retreated to the
practice putting green to wait for Scott, who was playing two
groups behind, to finish.  “I just thought I’ll probably be disappointed again,” Els
said. “You’re not hoping the guy is going to make a mistake,
but you’re hoping you don’t have to go to a playoff, you can win
outright.”  Bogey Run  After getting to 10 under with a birdie on the 14th hole,
Scott bogeyed the 15th. He missed a short par putt on the next
hole, then pulled his approach shot to the 17th green left and
made another bogey that dropped him into a tie with Els.  “It all comes down to the shot into 17 for me that I’m
most disappointed with,” Scott said. “At that point I’m still
well in control of the tournament. As I looked up and saw the
line it was on, I knew it was riding the wind too early to hold
its line. I knew it was in a bit of trouble.”  Now needing a birdie to win, he found a fairway bunker with
his tee shot on 18. After chipping out of the sand, he hit his
third shot to within 10 feet and pushed the putt that would have
forced a playoff past the right edge of the hole.  Scott said  Els  had some words of encouragement when they
spoke in the scorer’s trailer.  “He said he felt for me and not to beat myself up,” he
said. “We have a close friendship. I respect Ernie a lot and
he’s a player who is a worthy champion here for sure.”  Els said he’s sure Scott’s day at a major will come.  “Thankfully he’s young enough,” he said. “He’s 32 years
old. He’s got the next 10 years. I’ve won four now. I think he
can win more than that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 