-- Euro Slides to Weakest Since 2000 Versus Yen on Crisis
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-23T21:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/euro-declines-to-11-year-low-versus-yen-before-spain-bill-sale.html
The euro weakened to the lowest in
more than 11 years against the yen as investors sought safer
assets amid mounting concern that European leaders are failing
to control the region’s debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency slid to its lowest in more than two
years against the dollar, falling below its lifetime average. It
extended losses versus the dollar and yen as Moody’s Investors
Service cut to negative its outlooks on  Germany , the Netherlands
and Luxembourg. Six Spanish regions may seek aid from the
central government, El Pais reported, spurring bets the nation’s
finances will worsen and pushing  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield to a
euro-era high.  “Spanish regions announcing they will be seeking aid
clearly taxes an already-indebted Spanish government,”  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in  Washington  at the currency
brokerage Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “That makes the prospect of a broader
bailout for Spain that much more inevitable.”  The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.2113 at 5:37 p.m. in  New
York  after losing as much as 0.7 percent to $1.2067, the weakest
since June 2010 and below the average of $1.2087 since its
inception in 1999. The shared currency fell to $1.1877 in June
2010, its lowest level since 2006. The euro dropped 0.5 percent
to 94.93 yen and touched 94.24 yen, the lowest since November
2000. The yen rose 0.2 percent to 78.37 per dollar.  Moody’s Changes  The shared currency added to losses as Moody’s cited in a
statement risks that  Greece  may leave the 17-nation euro
currency and “increasing likelihood” of collective support for
European countries such as Spain and Italy as reasons for the
outlook changes.  “Given the greater ability to absorb the costs associated
with this support, this burden will likely fall most heavily on
more highly rated member states if the euro area is to be
preserved in its current form,” Moody’s said in the statement.  Yields on German 10-year bonds rose to 1.18 percent today,  The euro pared losses earlier as safety demand eased and
stocks trimmed declines. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  ended
the day down 0.9 percent after tumbling earlier as much as 1.8
percent.  “As risk aversion moderates a little bit, you’re going to
see pulling back in long yen positions,” Commonwealth’s Esiner
said. “The yen bouncing off of its highs is another signal that
the market sees a little bit of stabilization here.” Long
positions are bets a currency will strengthen.  John Paulson , the billionaire hedge-fund manager, told
clients he sees a 50 percent chance the euro will break up,
according to an investor who listened to the comments on a
conference call today. Paulson runs Paulson & Co. in New York.
The investor asked not to be named because the call was private.
 Armel Leslie , a spokesman for the fund, declined to comment.  Worst Performer  The euro has slumped 5.4 percent this year, the worst
performance, among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has fallen 0.2
percent, while the dollar has advanced 1.9 percent.  Spain and Italy moved to ban short-selling of stocks amid
market turmoil. Spain’s stock-market regulator, the CNMV, said
its ban would cover all equities for three months. Italy’s
regulator, Consob, said its week-long ban was introduced on some
banking and insurance shares. A short position is a bet a
security will decline.  Officials of the European Commission,  European Central Bank 
and  International Monetary Fund , Greece’s troika of
international creditors, arrive in Athens tomorrow amid doubts
that the nation where  Europe ’s debt crisis began almost three
years ago will meet its commitments for a bailout.  ‘More Risk’  “There’s just more risk out there in the  euro zone , and
investors are getting more worried about how things could go,”
Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“Concern is building that Spain will probably need a formal
bailout.”  Catalonia, Castilla-La-Mancha, Murcia, the  Canary Islands 
and the Balearic Islands are among the Spanish regions that have
admitted they may ask for aid from the central government after
Valencia sought a bailout last week, El Pais newspaper reported.  The  yield  on Spain’s 10-year bond jumped to as much as
7.565 percent, the highest since the euro was created.  Australia ’s dollar tumbled on decreased risk appetite after
reaching a record high against the euro. The Aussie gained as
much as 0.4 percent to A$1.1671 before weakening 0.8 percent to
A$1.1810. It depreciated 1.2 percent to $1.0259.  South Africa ’s rand was the biggest loser among major
currencies amid lower appetite for risk. It touched a three-week
low versus the dollar, dropping as much as 2.4 percent to 8.4812
to the greenback before trading at 8.4595, down 2.1 percent.  Mexican Peso  The  Mexican peso  fell to its weakest level this month
versus the dollar. It depreciated 1.7 percent to 13.5877.  Implied volatility  on three-month options for Group-of-
Seven currencies jumped to 9.28 percent, the highest level in
more than a week, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index .
It fell on July 20 to 8.32 percent, the lowest since 2007. The
average over the past five years is 12.4 percent.  Increased volatility makes investments in currencies of
nations with higher benchmark  interest rates  less attractive
because the risk in such trades is that market moves will erase
profits.  Key rates are 5 percent in South Africa and 3.5 percent in
Australia, versus zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S. and 0.75
percent in the euro bloc.  Canadian Dollar  Canada’s dollar lost as much as 0.8 percent to C$1.0204
against its U.S. counterpart, the weakest level since July 12.
The currency dropped as futures on crude oil, the nation’s
biggest export, fell 3.7 percent a barrel to $88.07 a barrel in
New York.  The greenback advanced against most major counterparts
before a government report this week that’s forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey to show U.S. gross domestic product, the
value of all goods and services the nation produced, rose at a
1.4 percent annual rate in the second quarter. It gained at a
1.9 percent pace from January through March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  