-- Feral Cate Blanchett Seduces in ‘Uncle Vanya’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-07-22T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/feral-cate-blanchett-seduces-in-uncle-vanya-review.html
Cate Blanchett  and her  Sydney
Theatre Company’s  propulsive staging of Anton Chekhov’s “Uncle
Vanya” hadn’t planned a New York stop on its world tour when I
reviewed it last August in  Washington .  But  Lincoln Center Festival  chief Nigel Redden smartly
booked it into  City Center . Now  New Yorkers  have a chance to see
this febrile star’s Yelena, a lethally bored young wife.  Living with her boorish, aging husband on a rural Russian
estate, Yelena emanates a chilly hauteur that doesn’t prevent a
horde of men from falling hopelessly in love with her.  None harder than the sad-sack Vanya, who has managed the
estate for a quarter-century, supporting Yelena’s husband,
Serebryakov, previously married to Vanya’s sainted sister.  Vanya describes Yelena as a goddess, beautiful and
untouchable. Blanchett in slinky gowns -- cream in the first
act, scarlet in the second -- fits the bill.  Bringing her an armful of fresh-picked roses, Vanya
stumbles humiliatingly on Yelena in an illicit clinch with
Astrov, the local doctor, a vegetarian proto-tree-hugger so
smitten he’s all but moved in for the summer.  When Astrov tries to interest her in his mission to save
the countryside from overdevelopment, Yelena can barely conceal
the yawns.  Cartoon Music  The fleet adaptation is by Blanchett’s husband and co-
company head, Andrew Upton. Tamas Ascher’s free-wheeling staging
of the play, moves Chekhov’s end-of-the-last-century  Russia  to
the Soviet era. Ascher introduces scenes with what sound like
the scores from 1940s cartoons and opera recordings.  This Hungarian director takes Chekhov at his word when he
called his moody melodramas of unrequited love and mournful
lives comedies. There’s some slapstick silliness, and the star
proves herself adept at physical comedy.  That split-personality sensibility is also captured in
Zsolt Khell’s weathered-pine tomb of a set, making these people
look ever so small. (Their voices occasionally get lost in City
Center’s echo-chamber auditorium.)  Yelena and Serebryakov (John Bell, a vision of practiced
rectitude) have been summering at the estate. It’s home to Vanya
and his niece, Sonya, Serebryakov’s daughter. Richard Roxburgh
plays Vanya in a raffish, libidinous performance of bottled rage
that turns deeply moving when he finally explodes.  Plain-jane Sonya (Hayley McElhinney, in a nuanced,
restrained performance) is unknowingly competing with her step-
mother for the attention of Astrov (rakishly sensitive Hugo
Weaving).  Sonya doesn’t stand a chance against Yelena, whose
frustration has made her wily, any more than Vanya can compete
with the comparatively suave doctor.  And so this “comedy” ends in a way that predicts  Samuel Beckett , with deep-rooted characters in existential paralysis.
Taking his leave with Yelena, the clueless, bombastic
Serebryakov tells Vanya, Sonya and everyone else on the blighted
estate, “You must do something. Do something!” Some joke.  Through Saturday at City Center, 131 W. 55th St.
Information: +212-581-1212;  http://nycitycenter.org . Rating:
****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Manuela
Hoelterhoff  on the arts.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 