-- Franken-Jellyfish’s Swim May Inspire New Heart Therapies
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-07-22T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/franken-jellyfish-s-swim-may-inspire-new-heart-therapies.html
A bioengineered water creature, made
from heart cells of rats and silicone, came “alive” with an
electric zap and swam like a jellyfish, according to its  Harvard
University  and  California Institute of Technology  creators.  The research, published today in the journal Nature
Biotechnology shows how scientists can create life-like forms by
replicating the structure and function of simple creatures, in
this case, a jellyfish. Its pulsating properties, like that of a
human heart, also suggest that the eight-legged thing dubbed
“Medusoid,” may one day lead to new therapeutic devices, such
as pacemakers, made from organic substances, scientists said.  “As engineers, we’re very comfortable building with
plastics and metals, but in the long term, we think the more
viable approach is to build these components out of biological
materials,”  John Dabiri , a study author and professor at
 CalTech , said in an interview. “The big picture here is to try
to develop tools to improve biomedical technology -- so think
about repair of a damaged heart.”  Scientists crafted their Medusoid from the heart cells of
rats to give it pumping action, a silicone polymer membrane to
give it an elastic structure that enabled motion and then
covered the membrane with a protein arranged in the same pattern
as a jellyfish’s muscle assembly. They then released it into a
laboratory pool of fluid and shocked it, Frankenstein-like, to
spur its motion.  The Frankenstein analogy “certainly came to my mind when I
started working on this project,” Dabiri said. “Our objective
is more noble, I hope -- we want to use this to improve people’s
lives.”  Viable Organs  Ultimately, Dabiri said he wants to create a version that
doesn’t need an outside source of energy, a key step toward
creating a viable replacement organ. Current  artificial hearts 
are passive, and rely on an electrical charge to make them beat,
much like the Medusoid relies on electrical currents to spur its
eight arms to move.  An active replacement organ would be able to generate its
own power by absorbing nutrients from a patient’s bloodstream,
he said, just as real organs do, though that ability is years
away from becoming reality.  Another goal of the research was to see if tissue
engineering could be improved by an approach that focused on a
function of an organism rather than its components.  That notion occurred to  Kevin Kit Parker , a professor of
Bioengineering and Applied Physics at Harvard and one of the
study’s authors, on a visit to the New England Aquarium in
 Boston .  “I started looking at marine organisms that pump to
survive,” he said in a statement. “Then I saw a jellyfish at
the New England Aquarium, and I immediately noted both
similarities and differences between how the jellyfish pumps and
the human heart. The similarities help reveal what you need to
do to design a bio-inspired pump.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  