-- Goldman Is the Scapegoat in Dragon’s Death
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-07-22T22:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/goldman-is-the-scapegoat-in-dragon-s-death.html
After three years of the most
terrible publicity this side of Jerry Sandusky, things have been
looking up recently for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Thanks in large part to an evolving media strategy by Jake Siewert, Goldman’s new head of communications, we have been
treated to the softer side of Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein . He has recently made himself available for television
and newspaper interviews and has delivered talks at the St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum, the Chicago Club and
the Economic Club of  Washington . He even wrote an  op-ed article 
for Politico and  endorsed  large swaths of the Dodd-Frank law,
admitting that “we were a little mysterious and that was a big
problem.”  The emergence of the New Goldman has coincided with the
spotlight finally moving onto its competitors. There’s been the
“tempest in a teapot” at JPMorgan Chase that resulted in a $6
billion trading loss, momentarily denting the  Valyrian armor  of
 Jamie Dimon , the firm’s chief executive officer. There’s been
the scandal at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  involving the manipulation of the
London interbank offered rate, which may yet snare more victims
at the U.S. banks that have a role in setting Libor. And there’s
been the particularly shameful behavior of HSBC Holdings Plc,
which is accused of abetting terrorists and money-launderers.  Say what you will about Goldman Sachs, but it rarely
suffers substantial trading losses, had no role in setting Libor
and has not been accused of laundering money for terrorists.  Computer Speech  And that’s what makes a  New York  Times  article  from July 14
so puzzling. Seemingly out of the blue, the newspaper published
a 3,500-word indictment of the firm for the advice -- or seeming
lack of it -- that four Goldman mergers and acquisitions bankers
provided to Dragon Systems Inc., a voice-recognition software
company, on its $580 million sale to the Belgian firm Lernout &
Hauspie 12 years ago.  Using court filings, the Times’s Loren Feldman meticulously
pieced together a tale of how James and Janet Baker, a married
couple who were pioneers in computer speech, sold Dragon in
exchange for L&H stock and then lost it all when L&H turned out
to be a fraud. Feldman mined the lawsuits the Bakers filed
against many of the deal’s participants and, “based on a trove
of legal filings -- e-mails, motions and roughly 30 depositions,
more than 8,000 pages of sworn testimony in all,” he wrote that
he opened up “a rare window on Goldman Sachs and the mystique
that surrounds it.”  Not really. It is true that Feldman dug up some disturbing
facts about the alleged behavior of the “Goldman Four,” as the
M&A bankers have come to be known in court documents -- for
instance, Richard Wayner was on vacation at two crucial moments
during the deal and later testified that “lingering issues” of
due diligence about L&H were not resolved “to his satisfaction.”
Yet for the most part the article showed a misunderstanding 0f
the specific roles that bankers play on merger assignments, and
of what exactly Goldman had agreed to do for the Bakers. (Both
Feldman and Alan Colter, the Bakers’ attorney, declined to
comment for this column.)  It was the Dragon board of directors, not Goldman, that
made the fateful decision to take nothing but L&H stock as
consideration for the company, even though Dragon shareholders
had been offered a mixture of cash and stock. (Janet Baker was
chairman of the board and presided over the March 27, 2000,
board meeting approving the sale to L&H.) It was also the
Bakers’ decision not to hedge the L&H stock they took after
rejecting advice from Goldman to consider that option.  In the end, the Times article, although riveting, was a
journalistic case study in choosing from among many facts those
that suit your argument.  Another Side  The point being, there is often another side to a complex
story, assuming you are open to exploring it. For instance,
according to court documents I reviewed, the heavily negotiated
engagement letter between Dragon and Goldman specifically
excluded Dragon shareholders -- including the Bakers and Seagate
Technology Plc, Dragon’s largest shareholder -- as parties.
Rather, it expressly stated that Goldman would only advise
Dragon, the company, and that Dragon’s “shareholders would not
hold Goldman liable.”  Goldman had initially sought to advise not only Dragon but
also the Bakers and Seagate, while requiring these shareholders
to “personally guarantee payment” of Goldman’s $5 million fee.
But Janet Baker wanted that provision taken out of the final
agreement, and it was.  Furthermore, the engagement letter did not call for Goldman
to give the Dragon board a “fairness opinion,” wherein a
banker opines to a board about the “fairness” of the
consideration being received. The Times’s article fingered
Goldman for not making a presentation to the board about the L&H
stock shareholders would get, but didn’t mention that Goldman
had not been requested to do so in the engagement letter.  Minutes of the March 27 meeting reveal that the board of
directors, on its own, determined that the consideration being
offered -- the L&H stock -- was “fair to and in the best
interests of” Dragon and its shareholders. (Wayner was away on
vacation during this meeting, although he called in and spoke.)  The Times’s expose made much of the fact that Goldman
failed to perform sufficient due diligence on L&H to uncover the
fraud. First, this charge is absurd -- M&A bankers are not
forensic accountants. Second, Goldman holds that in previous
lawsuits the Bakers brought against 30 separate defendants
including L&H’s auditor (KPMG LLP), investment banker (SG Cowen
& Co.), and officers and creditors, the Bakers “swore under
oath” and “represented to this court” that Dragon’s due
diligence on “L&H was exhaustive, that verification of L&H’s
accounting was not Goldman’s job, and that no amount of due
diligence could have detected the fraud.”  Mysterious Memo  The Times also pointed to a “mysterious” unsigned Feb. 29,
2000, memo from Goldman to Dragon urging that “additional due
diligence” on L&H be performed by “accounting professionals on
both sides” and noted that “experience shows that companies
like Lernout & Hauspie, which grow via acquisition, necessitate
an extra level of care at this stage of the process.” The memo
further stated that this extra level of forensic due diligence
is important when the seller is thinking of taking the buyer’s
stock as consideration. The Bakers ignored this recommendation,
and the forensic due diligence was not done. Since when is it
the bankers’ fault when a client doesn’t take their advice?  The article also mentioned that Goldman’s private-equity
arm had earlier considered making an investment in L&H but
passed because of the very concerns that later felled the
company. In retrospect, the Bakers thought Goldman’s private-
equity arm should have told its bankers that it was skeptical of
L&H. But guess what? There is a Chinese wall between the two
parts of the bank, and this time -- at least -- it seemed to
work.  The Times also didn’t mention that as a result of the
lawsuits the Bakers brought against the other professionals
involved in the deal, they have already reaped some $70 million.
They are suing Goldman in order to add to their legal winnings.  Yes, it’s extraordinarily important to hold powerful
institutions such as Goldman Sachs to account for reckless or
unethical behavior. As I wrote in my book about the firm, in
2007, it was unacceptable for Goldman Sachs to continue to sell
mortgage-backed securities at par to investors around the globe
at the same time it was making a huge proprietary bet against
the mortgage market.  But enough is enough. The news media can’t continue to take
one-sided potshots at Goldman Sachs just because it makes for a
good story.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard Freres,
Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase, against which he lost an
arbitration case over his dismissal. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 