-- Euro Crisis Deepens With New Spain Woes, Short Sale Ban
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-07-23T14:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/greece-back-at-center-of-euro-crisis-as-exit-talk-resurfaces.html
Europe  was plunged into fresh market
turmoil as the first call for bailout aid by a Spanish region
sent borrowing costs surging, while Spain and  Italy  reinstated a
ban on betting on stock declines.  Stocks and the euro fell as Catalonia joined a list of
Spanish regions that may tap aid from the central government,
spurring 10-year yields to rise to a euro-era record. Meantime,
Greece’s so-called troika of international creditors -- the
European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  -- arrives tomorrow in  Athens ,
rekindling concern the currency union will splinter.  “The problem in the region is profound, but the pace that
it has been dealt with was slow,” said  John Stopford , head of
fixed income at Investec Asset Management, which oversees $98
billion. “The bank bailout for Spain is far from sufficient to
deal with the country’s problems.”  After euro finance ministers failed to stanch a decline in
the single currency with the approval of a 100 billion-euro
($122 billion) aid package for Spanish banks last week, the ban
by the governments in Rome and  Madrid  reflected renewed concern
that the currency union was far from resolving its crisis.  The euro slipped below its lifetime average against the
 U.S. dollar  and to the lowest level in more than 11 years
against the yen today, dropping to $1.2080 at 2:41 p.m. in
 Frankfurt . Spain’s 10-year bond  yields  rose as high as to 7.57
percent. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 2.4 percent at 3:45
p.m. in  London .  Spanish Regions  The slump has been compounded as Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  confronts 15 billion euros of debt redemptions in
regions in the second half of this year. In addition to
Catalonia, the most indebted region, Castilla-La-Mancha, Murcia,
the  Canary Islands  and the Balearic Islands may follow Valencia
in seeking aid from Madrid, El Pais newspaper reported.  Spain’s Economy Minister Luis de Guindos will visit Berlin
tomorrow for talks with German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble . No press conference is planned.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , his country burdened by
rising borrowing costs, said last week that unrest in Spain,
where protesters derided the country’s 65 billion-euro austerity
package, added to euro concerns.  Spain’s stock-market regulator, the CNMV, said it was
banning short selling of all stocks for three months, amid
“extreme volatility.” Italy’s Consob said its ban, scheduled
to last a week, was introduced on some banking and insurance
shares because of the “recent performance of stock markets.”  Previously Tried  The measures resemble decisions in August last year by
France,  Belgium ,  Spain  and Italy in their bid to stabilize
markets after European banks hit their lowest since the 2008
credit crisis.  In Greece, troika officials will face down doubts that the
country where the crisis began almost three years ago can meet
its bailout commitments and reluctance among euro states to put
up more funds should it fail. German coalition politicians over
the weekend torpedoed the possibility of renegotiating the terms
of Greece’s agreement.  “If Greece doesn’t fulfill those conditions, then there
can be no more payments,” German Vice Chancellor Philipp Roesler told broadcaster ARD yesterday, adding that he is “very
skeptical” Greece can be rescued and that the prospect of its
exit from the monetary union “has long ago lost its terror.”  ‘Bitter Memories’  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras yesterday compared the
economy after five years of contraction to the 1930s.  Five years of recession “bring about bitter memories of
the Great Depression in the  United States ,” Samaras said
yesterday in comments to visiting former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  in Athens. “This is exactly what we are going through
in Greece. It is our version of the Great Depression.”  The Greek government has struggled to stand by obligations
tied to 240 billion euros of rescue funding over the past two
years. The country is clamoring for more help as efforts to
reduce its debt to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020
fall short.  The IMF, which indicated in March it won’t commit more
money to Greece, will make a decision on its next disbursement
in late August at the earliest based on the troika’s findings,
said two fund officials familiar with the situation in recent
days.  Off Track  The Washington-based IMF has signaled to European officials
that it will stop paying further rescue aid to  Greece , bringing
the country closer to insolvency in September,  Der Spiegel 
magazine cited unidentified European Union officials as saying
in this week’s edition, published yesterday. It’s “already
clear” to the troika that Greece won’t reach the 120 percent
target, Spiegel said.  The fund responded to the Der Spiegel report, saying today
in a statement it is “is supporting Greece in overcoming its
economic difficulties.”  Missing the targets means Greece would need between 10
billion euros and 50 billion euros in additional aid, a
potential outcome that the IMF and several unidentified euro-
area states are not prepared to accept, Spiegel said.  Once taboo, the possibility that Greece could exit the 17-
member monetary union has been voiced this year by European
officials who consider the fallout from such a scenario would be
the lesser evil against a seemingly perpetual crisis.  Exit Speculation  Roesler, who is  Germany ’s economy minister as well as the
chairman of Merkel’s Free Democratic coalition partner, told ARD
that a curtailment of aid to Greece would lead to a sovereign
default, which would in turn lead to “Greeks coming to the
conclusion that it is probably wiser to leave the euro area.”  Spiegel reported that German officials were holding off on
such a decision until the permanent bailout fund, the European
Stability Mechanism, comes into operation in September. The 500
billion-euro ESM is on hold pending a decision by Germany’s
Federal Constitutional Court, set for Sept. 12.  “For Greece, it’s long been five past midnight,”
political columnist Hugo Mueller-Vogg said in Germany’s best-
selling Bild newspaper today. The IMF, “by stepping on the
brakes, makes it easier for creditor nations like Germany and
the EU as a whole to also say: adieu Acropolis, it’s time to
go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  