-- Growth Cooled as Americans Curbed Spending: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/growth-cooled-as-americans-curbed-spending-u-s-economy-preview.html
The  U.S. economy  probably expanded
in the second quarter at the slowest pace in a year as a weaker
labor market prompted Americans to cut back on their spending,
economists said before a report this week.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
the nation produced, rose at a 1.4 percent annual rate after a
1.9 percent gain in the prior quarter, according to the median
forecast of 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Factory
orders softened and  new-home sales  were little changed, other
data may show.  Consumer  purchases , which account for about 70 percent of
the world’s largest economy, are weakening at a time  Europe ’s
debt crisis and looming U.S. tax-policy changes threaten to
further restrain corporate investment. The deceleration in
growth, a concern Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
highlighted last week, will make it harder to trim unemployment
stuck above 8 percent since February 2009.  “We’re seeing weak numbers pretty much across the board,”
said  Michael Hanson , a senior U.S. economist at Bank of America
Corp. in  New York . “Softening consumption is definitely a big
part of the slowdown. The uncertainty over Europe and the fiscal
cliff will impinge on business decisions and activity.”  A projected 1.3 percent gain in second-quarter household
spending would be the smallest in a year and follow a 2.5
percent rise in the January to March period, according to the
 median  projection ahead of the GDP release by the Commerce
Department on July 27.  Retail Sales  Recent data signal consumers are reluctant to step up
purchases. Retail sales fell in June for a third consecutive
month, the longest period of declines since 2008. Same-store
sales rose less than analysts’ estimates at retailers including
 Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M)   Payroll gains slowed to an average 75,000 last quarter,
down from 226,000 in the prior three months and the weakest
since the third quarter of 2010. The  unemployment rate , which
held at 8.2 percent in June, has exceeded 8 percent for 41
straight months.  The dimmer outlook for employment is taking a toll on
Americans’ confidence as the economy heads into the second half
of 2012. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final  index (SPX) 
of  consumer sentiment  fell to 72 in July, the lowest level this
year, economists in the Bloomberg survey predicted ahead of the
July 27 report.  “Economic activity appears to have decelerated somewhat
during the first half of this year,” Bernanke said in testimony
to Congress last week. The Fed is “prepared to take further
action as appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery.”  ‘Frustratingly Slow’  He also said the reduction in the unemployment rate seems
likely to be “frustratingly slow.” U.S. central bankers next
meet on July 31.  Stocks have weakened since the end of March on concerns
about global growth. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is down 3.3
percent since March 31.  Jobs and the economy are central themes in the presidential
campaign, with President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger
 Mitt Romney  sparring over who can best revitalize the recovery.  Manufacturers, a driver of the expansion, may find fewer
overseas customers for their products as the world economy
slows. A July 26 report from the Commerce Department may show
orders for durable goods rose 0.4 percent in June, after a 1.3
percent gain in May, according to the Bloomberg survey median.
Demand excluding transportation equipment may have climbed 0.1
percent from a month earlier.  Xerox Profits  Some companies are already feeling the pinch.  Xerox Corp. (XRX) ,
the provider of printers and business services, cut its full-
year profit forecast as the economic slump in Europe crimped
demand for technology.  “The economic uncertainty has created more pressure
especially in Europe and especially in our technology
business,”  Ursula Burns , chief executive officer of the
Norwalk, Connecticut-based company, said on a July 20 conference
call with analysts.  Housing, while stabilizing, may take time to strengthen as
cooling employment and limited access to credit remain hurdles
for buyers. New-home purchases climbed in June to a 370,000
annual rate, little changed from the prior month’s 369,000 pace,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. The Commerce
Department figures are due on July 25.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  