-- Illusions Fascinated Colorado Massacre Suspect as Student
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2012-07-23T01:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/illusions-fascinated-colorado-massacre-suspect-as-student.html
When he was 18, before he was
awarded a neurosciences research grant from the National
Institutes of Health or was accused of killing a dozen people in
a  Colorado  movie theater, James Holmes began studying the
workings of biology and psychology.  During science camp at a  community college  in San Diego six
years ago, Holmes focused on temporal illusion, a distortion in
perception that he described as “an illusion that allows you to
change the past,” according to a video of a presentation
released yesterday by ABC News.  Holmes, wearing an oversized collared gray shirt at the
 Miramar College  presentation, said he also studied subjective
experience, or “what takes place inside the mind, as opposed to
the external world.”  What took place inside Holmes’s mind is the subject of
investigations trying to unravel why the 24-year-old graduate
student who qualified for a competitive federal grant was
transformed into a man police say amassed a cache of arms and
ammunition, booby-trapped his apartment with explosives and
opened fire on moviegoers, including children.  “We still can’t get into the mind of this twisted, really
delusional individual,” Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper
said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” yesterday. There’s been no
indication so far of motive, “I mean not an iota, nothing,” he
said.  Quiet Scientist  In the wake of the July 20 shooting, as the international
press descended on the theater and apartment in Aurora,
Colorado, and his parents’ neighborhood in  San Diego , the image
of Holmes that has emerged is one of a quiet loner who excelled
in science.  Holmes’s parents live in a two-story home with a Spanish
tile roof in Rancho Penasquitos, a San Diego neighborhood 15
miles northeast of downtown. His mother, Arlene, is a nurse. His
father, Robert, is senior lead scientist at  Fair Isaac Corp. (FICO) , a
Minneapolis-based company that developed the FICO credit scoring
system, according to his profile on  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ’s website.  Holmes attended elementary and middle school in
 Castroville , on the central  California  coast, according to the
Monterey County Herald, citing a former teacher and classmates.  He graduated from Westview High School in San Diego, a
school of about 2,400 students in the Poway Unified School
District rated on U.S. News & World Report’s  best high school
list  as 40th in California. He played junior varsity soccer his
sophomore year, according to a yearbook.  ‘Little Nerdy’  High school classmate Breanna Hath, 23, told the  New York 
Times that Holmes had a small group of friends who played video
games and were “a little nerdy.”  “He was really shy, really quiet, but really nice and
sweet,” Hath said.  Other classmates said they’ve struggled to remember Holmes
after seeing his picture on the news.  “Honestly, I just talked to a lot of my friends that I
went to school with and no one seems to have known him,” said
Justin White, who graduated in 2005, a year ahead of Holmes.
“They’re like me, if they see his picture they say that might
be someone I used to know, but no one can say for sure.”  Linda Neumann, who at the time Holmes attended was
president of a foundation raising funds for the school, said she
didn’t remember his family at all.  “We all feel so bad,” she said. “I can’t tell you how
strange that is.”  Slurpee Dream  During the presentation at the science camp, a woman
introducing Holmes said he enjoyed strategy games, wanted to be
a research scientist and dreamed of owning a Slurpee drink
machine.  Pursuing his goal to do brain research, Holmes entered the
 University of California  Riverside and earned a bachelor’s
degree with honors in neuroscience in 2010, said Timothy P.
White, the school’s chancellor.  Holmes, who attended the school on a merit scholarship, had
a rigorous major involving the study of chemistry and physics,
as well as brain anatomy and physiology, psychology and “how we
all behave,” White said July 20 in a press briefing.  “It’s ironic and sad,” he said.  Last year, Holmes was one of a half-dozen students admitted
to the neuroscience graduate program on the University of
Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, which focuses on the workings
of the brain with an emphasis “on processing of information,
behavior, learning and memory,” according to a statement from
the school.  ‘Significant Contributions’  Holmes, along with five other students, had his research
funded by a  National Institutes of Health  grant aimed at
training “outstanding neuroscientists and academicians who will
make significant contributions to neurobiology,” the school
said.  Holmes was paid a stipend of $26,000 a year under the
grant, said Jacque Montgomery, a university spokeswoman, in an
interview yesterday.  Holmes lived in a three-story red brick apartment building
near the school in a crime-ridden neighborhood. Neighbors said
he kept to himself.  Holmes turned to the Internet to meet women. He created a
profile on AdultFriendFinder.com, a dating and sex chat website,
said a law enforcement official who wasn’t authorized
to speak publicly and requested anonymity.  ‘Visit Me?’  His photo showed a man with orange hair who called himself
“classicjimbo.” He said he was “looking for a fling or casual
sex gal,” according to the Washington Post.  In another part of
the post, which has since been taken down, he asked: “Will you
visit me in prison?”  In June, for reasons he did not specify, he decided to
withdraw from his academic program, the  University of Colorado 
said in a statement.  Later that month, he applied for membership at a private
gun club 50 miles east of Aurora. Glenn Rotkovich, 65, owner of
the Lead Valley Range near Deer Trail, said Holmes submitted an
application to join the club, which has a 100-yard-rifle range
and charges $150 a year membership fees.  Rotkovich said the application was fine. However, he became
wary of Holmes after hearing his voice mail greeting when he
called him about arranging orientation July 1.  “It was rambling, incoherent, guttural and bizarre,”
Rotkovich said of the greeting in an interview at the gun club.
He left three messages for Holmes and never heard back.
Rotkovich said he told his staff to be on the look-out.  “If he shows up, don’t let anything happen until I meet
with him,” he said he told them.  Buying Guns  Authorities said that Holmes began buying guns in stores in
the Aurora region in May, amassing a cache of explosives and
ammunition.  Just after 12:30 a.m. on July 20, police say a gunman
wearing a helmet and bullet-proof vest opened fire on a sold-out
premiere showing of “The Dark Knight Rises” at the Century 16
movie theater at the Aurora Town Center mall.  The man threw tear-gas canisters in the crowd, fired a
shotgun with birdshot and then switched to a semi-automatic
rifle. When it jammed, he took up a pistol.  Police arrested Holmes in the parking lot. They located
four guns and 6,000 rounds of ammunition. He told them his
apartment was rigged with explosives.  Booby Trapped  For the next day and a half, officials worked to dismantle
an elaborately booby-trapped apartment that Aurora Police Chief
Dan Oates said was designed to kill whoever entered.  Dumpsters and trash bins outside Holmes’s apartment were
searched, turning up a shipping label from an Internet
ammunition store called BulkAmmo.com, according to a law
enforcement official who spoke on condition of anonymity because
he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Over a period of months, Holmes spent about $15,000 on
weapons, ammo and equipment, the official said. Surveillance
video shows Holmes picking up 150 pounds of ammunition at a
 FedEx Corp. (FDX)  store in Colorado, the official said. Investigators
also say he used his workspace at the University of Colorado
medical campus to amass supplies.  Inside the apartment, investigators found a Batman poster,
mask and other paraphernalia related to the superhero, the
official said.  Holmes is being held at the Arapahoe County jail and is
scheduled to be arraigned today in Arapahoe County Court,
outside Denver.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Aurora, Colorado at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
 Bill Callahan  in San Diego at  callahan@san.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  