-- Iran Sends More Nuclear Fuel to Medical Reactor, Abbasi Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-07-22T16:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/iran-sends-more-nuclear-fuel-to-research-reactor-abbasi-says.html
Iran  has sent additional 20 percent-
enriched uranium to its Tehran medical research reactor to be
used as fuel, according to the head of Iran’s Atomic Energy
Organization, Fereidoun Abbasi.  A fourth batch of nuclear fuel has been produced locally
and sent to the reactor, Abbasi said today, the official  Islamic
Republic News Agency  reported. Iran says the Tehran reactor
produces isotopes to diagnose and treat cancer.  Iran’s uranium enrichment work has been at the heart of a
standoff between the Persian Gulf country and the U.S. and its
allies. They want Iran to stop producing 20 percent enriched
uranium and move current stockpiles out of the country to show
that it isn’t seeking the capability to produce atomic weapons.
The U.S. has urged  Israel  to refrain from a threatened military
attack on Iran over its atomic program.  Nuclear negotiations between Iran and world powers resumed
earlier this year and expert level talks between Iranian and
Western negotiators are scheduled on July 24 in Istanbul in an
effort to overcome sticking points and schedule higher level
negotiations.  Iran said it started loading domestically produced fuel
plates into its nuclear research reactor in February.  Speaking today, Abbasi also said that the nation does not
seek to enrich uranium at higher purity levels than that needed
for its medical reactor.  “If we ever need uranium enriched at higher than 20
percent we would first communicate this need to the
 International Atomic Energy Agency ,” Abbasi said.  Though Iran has the ability to opt for nuclear fuel for its
ships and submarines, as suggested by several parliamentary
members, it doesn’t plan to do so, Abbasi was cited as saying by
IRNA.  Enriched uranium can be used as fuel or at higher
concentrations can form the core of a bomb. Uranium enriched to
levels higher than 20 percent purity brings Iran closer to the
90 percent level used in most atomic weapons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 