-- This Campaign Can’t Match Nastiness of Yore
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-07-22T15:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/this-campaign-can-t-match-nastiness-of-yore.html
The  U.S. presidential election , by
some accounts, is sinking to record depths of negativity and
nastiness, with unprecedented attacks on Wall Street, especially
the private-equity industry.  It’s enough to send the children inside.  Except that it isn’t true. There are still more than 100
days to go, but so far the tone and tenor of the contest between
President  Barack Obama  and former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  is tame by historical standards.  The Republican candidate has said the president is in over
his head on the economy and displays an antipathy toward
business. Obama has painted Romney as an out-of-touch elitist
who, as a businessman, became rich while milking companies and
destroying jobs.  Sometimes the charges get a bit rawer, though not beyond
normal boundaries.  Within both campaigns there are excesses.  The word “lies” is tossed around too freely. Obama’s
deputy campaign manager,  Stephanie Cutter , raised the
possibility that Romney might have committed a felony in his
filings to the Securities and Exchange Commission. John Sununu,
the former governor of  New Hampshire  and a leading Romney
supporter, said he wished Obama “would learn how to be an
American.” Sununu later apologized and Cutter sought to walk
back her comments.  Their political predecessors would chuckle over such stuff
being called nasty.  ‘Mean-Spirited’  Let’s start with one of the first presidential elections,
 Thomas Jefferson  against  John Adams  in 1800. A Jefferson hired
hand wrote that Adams was a “hideous hermaphroditical character
which has neither the force and firmness of a man, nor the
gentleness and sensitivity of a woman.” In return, Jefferson
was called “a mean-spirited, low-lived fellow, the son of a
half-breed Indian squaw, sired by a  Virginia  mulatto father.”  You don’t have to go back centuries to find out what really
nasty is. In 1964,  Lyndon Johnson ’s campaign circulated a
television ad featuring an adorable little girl and a nuclear
explosion, suggesting that his Republican challenger,  Barry Goldwater , would precipitate a thermonuclear war. The LBJ forces
also crafted a coloring book in which kids could fill in
pictures of Goldwater wearing Ku Klux Klan robes.  In 1988, the unusually honorable  George H.W. Bush 
sanctioned a blatantly racist ad tying a furloughed convict,
Willie Horton, to the Democratic presidential aspirant,  Michael Dukakis . Eight years ago, a rich Texan financed ads that
maliciously and falsely questioned the heroic military service
in Vietnam of the Democratic nominee,  John Kerry .  Still, this time, there are widespread complaints in the
business community, and especially the financial sector, that
Obama is running a demagogic campaign against them.  A while back,  Stephen Schwarzman , the chairman of
Blackstone Group LP, compared Obama’s plans to raise taxes on
private-equity executives to the Nazis’ designs on Europe:
“It’s a war; it’s like when Hitler invaded Poland in 1939.”  More recently, and less over-the-top, Paul Levy, the
managing director of the private-equity firm JLL Partners, said
Obama had “undertaken a broadside” against his industry.  “He has demonized people who are successful,” Levy said.
More moderately,  Jamie Dimon , the chief executive officer of
JPMorgan Chase & Co., has said he’s “disturbed” at some of the
Democrats’ anti-business behavior.  ‘Entrenched Greed’  It’s fortunate that these super-sensitive executives
weren’t around in earlier times. Obama hasn’t come close, in
eloquence or harshness, to matching Teddy Roosevelt’s rant
against “malefactors of great wealth.” Or TR cousin Franklin’s
boast that he proudly welcomed and had “earned the hatred of
entrenched greed.” Or John F. Kennedy’s comments, after a
showdown with steel executives, that his father had warned him
that businessmen were “sons of bitches.”  If tycoons are upset about today’s rhetoric, they should
try to imagine what the Roosevelts would have said about recent
 Wall Street  excesses that helped bring the global economy to its
knees.  Likewise, the Obama camp is attacking Romney’s background
as a private-equity executive at Bain Capital LLC. The
Republican nominee made this, not his one stint in government
service in Massachusetts, the raison d’etre of his candidacy and
exaggerated his exploits. The merits of the Obama charges can be
debated; putting the issue on the table shouldn’t be.  Similarly, it is legitimate for Romney to rail against
“labor bosses” or “labor stooges.” (Romney’s assertion that
a former teachers’ union president once said he didn’t represent
the interests of school children because “they don’t pay union
dues” is fiction, however.)  And when Obama makes careless comments such as “if you’ve
got a business, you didn’t build that,” as he did July 13 in
Virginia, the Republicans naturally will pile on. (In reality,
the president was talking about infrastructure, not businesses.)  The rhetoric against financial executives or  oil companies 
is no different than that against teachers or union leaders.
That’s what political campaigns are about.  This contest isn’t alarmingly negative or unfair. It also
isn’t edifying.  One of these guys will be elected president and will
immediately have to deal with a  fiscal crisis  that will test his
political and leadership skills. What they’ve said and how
they’ve behaved to date will make that task harder.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 