-- Israel Stocks Drop on Europe Debt, Syria Concern; Dubai Declines
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-07-22T14:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/israel-stocks-drop-on-europe-debt-syria-concern-dubai-declines.html
Israeli shares  dropped the most in a
week amid concern that Europe’s debt crisis will hamper global
growth and as fighting escalated in neighboring Syria. Dubai’s
stock index declined.  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) , Israel’s largest wireless provider,
tumbled to the lowest close on record.  Mellanox Technologies
Ltd. (MLNX) , a developer of technology used to transfer and store data,
lost 3.4 percent following a decline in its U.S.-traded shares.
The TA-25 benchmark index dropped 0.6 percent, the most since
July 15, to 1,073.11 at the close in  Tel Aviv . Dubai’s  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  fell 1.3 percent.  “The market is following the European and the U.S. market
declines on Friday on continued debt concerns on the
continent,” said Daniel Rapoport, head of equity and
derivatives at  Bank Leumi Le-Israel (LUMI)  in Tel Aviv. “Liquidity is
poor, typical of a Sunday, and we are at the height of summer.”  The  Stoxx Europe 600 (SXXP)  Index dropped 1.4 percent on July 20,
paring its weekly advance, as the yield premium for Spanish
benchmark bonds over German bunds surged to a record, sparking
concern the euro-area debt crisis is intensifying. Europe
accounts for 36 percent of all Israeli goods sent abroad,
excluding diamonds. Euro-area finance ministers gave the final
approval for the bailout of Spanish banks for as much as 100
billion euros ($122 billion).  Syria Unrest  The yield on Israel’s benchmark 5.5 percent notes due
January 2022 declined one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 4.1 percent. The  Bank of Israel  will probably hold the
benchmark interest rate at 2.25 percent tomorrow, according to
25 out of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Two forecast
borrowing costs will fall by 25 basis points.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said today the country
can’t accept any movement of sophisticated weapons from Syria to
Lebanon, where the Shiite Hezbollah is based. The comments came
as Syrian rebels fought for control of the country’s border
crossings after clashes spread to the city of Aleppo and the
escalating 18-month conflict drove thousands to escape to
neighboring nations.  Cellcom lost 5.9 percent to 21.3 shekels, the lowest since
listing in Tel Aviv in July 2007. Cellcom is the worst
performing stock on Israel’s TA-25 Index this year. The
country’s mobile phone market has grown enough to ensure
sufficient competition in the industry as the government
encourages companies to enter the fixed-line and cloud computing
markets to augment revenue.  “The number of players in the market is the number we
wanted,” Eden Bar Tal, the director general at Israel’s
Ministry of Communication, said in a phone interview on July 19.  Ramadan Begins  Mellanox decreased the most since July 18 to 361 shekels,
or the equivalent of $90.12. The New York-traded stock dropped
to $89.24 last week.  Saudi Arabia (SABIC) ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  and Kuwait’s gauge
gained 0.5 percent, while  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI) 
increased 0.2 percent. Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  lost 0.2 percent,
Bahrain’s  benchmark stock index  slipped 0.4 percent and Qatar’s
 QE Index (DSM)  was little changed. Egypt’s EGX 30 Index was also
little changed, gaining less than 0.1 percent.  In the Arab world, the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, when
Muslims fast from sunrise to sunset and business slows, has
started.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  