-- Japan, Australian Stock Futures Fall Amid China Concerns
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-07-22T23:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/japan-australian-stock-futures-fall-amid-china-concerns.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures fell after a Chinese central bank adviser said growth in
the world’s second-biggest economy may slow and Germany’s Vice
Chancellor said he’s skeptical European leaders will be able to
rescue debt-ridden Greece.  American Depositary Receipts  of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company, dropped 1.4 percent as investors
sold shares of companies with profits closely tied to economic
growth. ADRs of  Canon Inc. (7751) , a Japanese camera maker that gets 80
percent of its sales outside  Japan , slid 1.2 percent. Those of
 Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , which generates a quarter of its revenue in  China 
and Europe, declined 0.5 percent.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 8,610 in Chicago July 20, down from 8,670 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,570 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index declined 0.5 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index was
little changed in Wellington. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index fell 0.2 percent.  “There are many global macro headwinds,” said George Boubouras, Melbourne-based head of investment strategy at UBS
AG’s Australian unit. The Swiss bank has about $1.5 trillion in
assets under management. “ Risk aversion  persists for many
investors. Cautious corporate guidance remains, given the many
different macro and political challenges.”  China, Greece  Song Guoqing, an academic member of the People’s Bank of
China monetary policy committee, predicted the nation’s
expansion may cool to 7.4 percent this quarter, adding to
concern that the world’s second-biggest economy has yet to
bottom out. The adviser to the central bank also warned that a
decline in producer prices in tandem with consumer inflation may
hurt investment returns of industrial companies, damping their
desire to expand.  German Vice Chancellor Philipp Roesler said he’s “very
skeptical” that European leaders will be able to rescue Greece.
Roesler, who is Germany’s economy minister, told broadcaster ARD
that Greece was unlikely to be able to meet its obligations
under a euro-area bailout program as its international creditors
hold talks this week in Athens. Should that be the case, the
country won’t receive more bailout payments, Roesler said.  Concern that growth in  China’s economy  will slow as
Europe’s debt crisis deepens has dragged down the MSCI Asia-
Pacific Index by 9.5 percent from this year’s peak in February
through July 20. The regional benchmark trades at 11.8 times
 estimated earnings , compared with a multiple of 13.2 for the  S&P
500 Index  and 10.8 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese Earnings  Of the 1,671 companies on Japan’s Topix Index, 209 are
scheduled to report earnings this week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
retreated 0.1 percent on July 20. The London Metal Exchange
Index of prices for six industrial metals including copper and
aluminum fell 2.2 percent.  Chinese stocks  fell for a third week in New York before
Internet companies from Baidu Inc. to Ctrip.com International
Ltd. report second-quarter earnings that analysts estimate will
show slower profit growth. The Bloomberg  China-US Equity Index (CH55BN) 
of the most-traded Chinese shares in the U.S. sank 0.6 percent
to 86.11 on July 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  