-- Netanyahu Says Israel Might Act to Stop Syria Weapons Transfer
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-07-22T15:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/netanyahu-says-israel-might-act-to-stop-syria-weapons-transfer.html
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
said Israel is concerned that terrorists could gain control of
chemical weapons if  Syria ’s government collapses into chaos and
won’t rule out taking measures to prevent such a transfer.  “Do I seek action? No,” Netanyahu said in an interview on
the Fox News Sunday program. “Do I preclude it? No.”  Netanyahu said the need for action “might arise if there’s
a regime collapse, but not a regime change.”  The Syrian army’s inability to end an armed rebellion that
has killed more than 17,000 civilians in the past 17 months is
raising concerns about the government’s ability to protect its
stockpiles of chemical weapons. Syrian rebels have fought during
the past few days for control of the country’s border crossings.  Hassan Nasrallah , the chief of Lebanon’s Iranian-backed
Hezbollah movement, said the group used weapons and missiles
from Syria in its clash with Israel in 2006. Israel has blamed
Iran and Hezbollah for a bombing that killed five Israeli
tourists in  Bulgaria  on July 18.  “We certainly don’t want to be exposed to chemical weapons
falling into the hands of Hezbollah or some other terrorist
group,” Netanyahu said today.  Earlier today, Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said that Israel
is “watching for the possibility that Hezbollah will take the
opportunity to transfer sophisticated weaponry and more than
this it isn’t appropriate to say. Not when we will act, how we
will act or if we will act.”  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said on July 18 that
the Assad regime was responsible for ensuring the safety of
chemical weapons.  “There are significant amounts of chemical weapons in
Syria, and we have to be ready and prepared if the Syrian regime
loses control of its chemical weapons arsenal,” Israeli Defense
Ministry official Amos Gilad said today. “At the moment, they
are maintaining control of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  