-- NRG $1.7 Billion GenOn Purchase Creates U.S. Power Leader
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-07-23T00:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/nrg-energy-to-acquire-genon-energy-for-about-1-7-billion.html
NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) ’s $1.7 billion stock
purchase of  GenOn Energy Inc. (GEN)  would create the largest U.S.
independent electricity generator with more market strength to
withstand slumping power prices and capitalize on an eventual
rebound.  GenOn shareholders will receive 0.1216 share of NRG common
stock for each of their common shares, representing a 21 percent
premium over GenOn’s July 20 closing price, the companies said
in a statement yesterday.The combined companies will operate
under the NRG Energy name and have an enterprise value of $18
billion, according to the statement.  With the transaction, scheduled to close by the first
quarter of 2013, NRG will surpass  Calpine Corp. (CPN)  as the largest
independent U.S. power company by generation capacity.  By combining operations that will span the U.S. with about
47,000 megawatts of generation, the companies will be able to
increase the size and scale of their operations while reducing
costs, leaving them better positioned for an expected rebound in
prices, the chief executive officers of NRG and GenOn said in a
telephone interview yesterday  “In this industry, if you have the lowest cost structure,
you are going to have success over time,” NRG CEO David Crane
said in the interview. Crane will remain president and CEO of
the combined companies. GenOn CEO Edward Muller will join NRG’s
board as vice chairman.  Split Headquarters  NRG holders will own 71 percent of the new company, and
GenOn holders the rest. The combined company will have its
financial headquarters in Princeton,  New Jersey  and Houston will
serve as its headquarters for operations, according to the
statement. The combined companies’ board will have 16 members,
with 12 directors from the NRG board and four joining from
GenOn.  The transaction must be approved by shareholders of both
companies, the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  (FERC), the
 New York  Public Service Commission and the Public Utility
Commission of  Texas .  Independent producers, which sell power in competitive
markets, have been hurt by a more than 30 percent drop in
electricity prices since 2008. At the same time, operators are
facing increasing costs to comply with new environmental rules.
Independent generators produce electricity without a utility
unit, which has its rates set by local regulators.  GenOn, based in Houston, had lost almost a third of its
market value this year, closing at $1.82 on July 20, as slumping
natural gas prices have dragged down the price of electricity,
shrinking revenues. Princeton, New Jersey-based NRG has fallen
0.4 percent this year and closed at $18.05 on July 20.  Eastern Expansion  NRG would add coal plants in the Mid-Atlantic with the
GenOn purchase, following other independent power producers in
consolidating to withstand falling power prices. NRG said the
acquisition will allow it to expand its wholesale retail
business in the Eastern U.S., where the bulk of GenOn generation
is located.  “The greater depth and breadth gained through the
combination with GenOn will put NRG in a uniquely strong
position to fulfill the needs of American energy consumers in
the 21st century,” Crane said in the company statement.  Power prices should eventually rise because there’s been a
limited amount of new generation coming online to replace the
planned retirement of older, coal-fired generators because of
tougher environmental rules, Muller said in yesterday’s
interview.  Increasing Cash  “If you are reducing supply, that means demand is going to
go up,” he said. The closing of coal-burning plants generating
32 gigawatts have already been announced, with an additional 15
gigawatts to follow, concentrated in the Midwest and Southeast,
based on Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates.  Starting in 2014, the companies said they expect to add
$300 million annually to free  cash flow  from cost savings,
reduced interest expense and other efficiencies.  “Although it seems this combination could result in
significant synergies, a crucial issue longer term is future
power prices,” said  Paul Patterson , a New York City-based
analyst for Glenrock Associates LLC. “Given the challenging
power price environment confronting competitive power producers,
I think it is understandable that some might decide to
consolidate in order to achieve greater economies of scale,”
Patterson said in an interview.  The combined companies expect adjusted earnings before
interest taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, to be
between $2.54 billion and $2.74 billion for 2013, and between
$2.63 billion and $2.83 billion for 2014, they said in
yesterday’s statement.  Expected Earnings  NRG said second-quarter adjusted EBITDA for the stand-alone
company would be $530 million, and reaffirmed full-year 2012
adjusted EBITDA guidance to be between $1.8 billion and $2
billion. GenOn raised its 2012 stand-alone guidance for adjusted
EBITDA to $467 million from $446 million.  The merger, worth about $4.2 billion including net debt,
would rank as one of the largest sales of a power producer in
history, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding
spinoffs and bankruptcies, the only two rivaling it in size are
NRG’s 2006 purchase of Texas Genco for $5.8 billion including
debt,  Dynegy Inc. (DYNIQ) ’s 2007 acquisition of LS Power Group’s power
plants for about $4.2 billion, and GenOn predecessor Reliant
Resources Inc.’s 2002 purchase of Orion Power Holdings Inc. for
$4.9 billion, the data show.  Previous Bid  Muller, GenOn’s CEO, made a hostile $7.9 billion offer to
buy NRG in 2006 when he was CEO of GenOn predecessor Mirant
Corp.  NRG rejected the offer and said at the time that Crane had
held previous talks with Mirant about NRG acquiring the company.  Mirant dropped the offer and, in 2010, merged with RRI
Energy Inc. in 2010 to create GenOn.  NRG is second behind independent U.S. power producer
Calpine by market value.  Separately, NRG said it would pay its first-ever quarterly
dividend of 9 cents a share on Aug. 15 to holders as of Aug. 1.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are advising NRG,
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is advising GenOn.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  