-- Obama Shares Tears, Memories With Families of Victims
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-07-23T04:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/obama-to-visit-colorado-victims-as-police-search-suspect-s-home.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
families of those killed in a Colorado movie theater shooting
told him stories of “the wonderful lives” lost, a day before
the lone suspect was to face charges in the attack that left 12
dead and 58 injured.  A solemn Obama said he “had a chance to give folks some
hugs and to shed some tears, but also to share some laughs as
they remembered” the victims of the rampage that occurred about
12:30 a.m. July 20, a half-hour into a showing of the new Batman
movie, “The Dark Knight Rises,” in Aurora.  James Holmes, a 24-year-old graduate student in
neurosciences at the University of Colorado-Denver, is to be
arraigned today in the state’s deadliest shooting since the
Columbine High School massacre in April 1999. Aurora police said
he’ll be represented in Arapahoe County Court by the public
defender’s office.  Obama met with the families, as well as with some of the
wounded, for almost three hours at the University of  Colorado 
Hospital in Aurora. Those killed in the theater ranged in age
from 6 to 51. The meetings were followed by a public memorial
observance.  “I hope that all those who are in attendance understand
that the entire country will be there in prayer and
reflection,” the president said before the ceremony.  Family members of the victims, some visibly in tears, left
the observance clutching yellow roses as a choir led the
audience in singing “Amazing Grace.”  ‘Will Remember’  Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper read the names of each
victim, after which the hundreds of people at the Aurora
Municipal Center called out, “We will remember.”  Hickenlooper said Coloradans stepped up to help each other
amid the tragedy.  “It is amazing that one bad person has brought out so much
good,” the governor said. He credited people in the theater,
including three who died while shielding companions from
bullets, for averting even greater casualties.  By 6 p.m. local time yesterday (8 p.m. in  New York ), 22 of
those injured remained in area hospitals, down from 25 in the
morning, according to representatives of the medical centers.
Nine of the patients were in critical condition, unchanged from
earlier in the day.  Investigators are examining how Holmes obtained materials
used in the shootings and to booby-trap his apartment, said
Police Chief Dan Oates on  CBS News ’s “Face the Nation.”  Acted Alone  “All evidence we have, every single indicator is that it
was all Mr. Holmes’s activity and that he wasn’t particularly
aided by anyone else,” Oates said.  Holmes was paid a $26,000 annual stipend in the
neuroscience program at the University of Colorado’s Anschutz
Medical Campus in Aurora, university spokeswoman Jacque
Montgomery said by telephone yesterday.  The student spent $15,000 on weapons and ammunition over
the past several months and had 90 packages delivered to his
workplace at the university, said a law enforcement official who
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly and requested anonymity.  A search of Holmes’s apartment in Aurora revealed 30
improvised hand grenades and several containers filled with
gunpowder and gasoline, said the official. Authorities recovered
a computer, a Batman poster and mask and other paraphernalia
related to the superhero, the official said.  Apartment Arsenal  The grenades were made from 30 aerial shells -- softball-
sized black-plastic objects that are used in fireworks displays
-- whose pyrotechnics had been replaced with black powder, the
law enforcement official said. Ten gallons of gasoline were also
found.  Had Holmes used the right mixture of substances and they
were set off, the ensuing fireball could have engulfed the third
floor where he lived and the one below, the official said.  Authorities seized two .40-caliber pistols, a Glock G22 and
a Glock G23; a Smith & Wesson M&P .223 caliber semiautomatic
rifle; and a Remington 870 Express Tactical 12-gauge shotgun,
said the federal official.  Investigators found that Holmes began buying the weapons in
May at stores in the Aurora region, the official said. The
suspect hadn’t committed offenses that would have raised alarms
during background checks, the official said.  Police are investigating deliveries to Holmes’s apartment
and his workplace at the University of Colorado-Denver.
Montgomery said university officials had no information on the
packages Holmes received at the campus or what might have been
in them.  Graduate Student  The suspect was a graduate student in neuroscience at
University of Colorado-Denver who enrolled in June 2011 and was
in the process of withdrawing, according to a statement from the
school. It said Holmes had a grant from the  National Institutes
of Health  under a program for pre-thesis Ph.D. students aimed at
“training outstanding neuroscientists and academicians who will
make significant contributions to neurobiology.”  The attack was the worst mass shooting in the U.S. since
November 2009, when 13 people were killed at Fort Hood in  Texas .  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Aurora, Colorado at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Aurora, Colorado at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  