-- Obama to Meet With Families of Victims in Colorado Shooting
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-07-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/obama-to-visit-colorado-city-tomorrow-where-gunman-killed-12-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  will travel
to Aurora,  Colorado , today to meet with the families of victims
in a mass shooting at an Aurora, Colorado, movie theater that
left 12 people dead and 58 wounded.  Obama, who has pledged federal help in the investigation,
also will meet with local officials in the Denver suburb, the
White House said in a statement. There are no public events
listed on the president’s official schedule.  In his weekly radio  address  yesterday, Obama urged
Americans to take time “for prayer and reflection - for the
victims of this terrible tragedy, for the people who knew them
and loved them, for those who are still struggling to recover,
and for all the victims of the less publicized acts of violence
that plague our communities on a daily basis.”  The shooting occurred July 20 during a midnight showing of
the new Batman movie. It was the worst such incident in the U.S.
since 13 soldiers and civilians were killed and 43 wounded when
a gunman opened fire at Fort Hood,  Texas , in 2009.  A suspect, identified by police as James Holmes, 24, was
arrested after the attack at a shopping mall in the Denver
suburb. He is scheduled to be arraigned tomorrow morning.  The president was previously scheduled to address a
Veterans of Foreign Wars convention tomorrow at the start of a
three-day trip that also included campaigning and fundraising.
From Aurora, Obama will fly to  San Francisco  to spend the night.  Campaigns Suspended  Obama and Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
suspended their political campaigns in the immediate aftermath
of the shooting and pulled their ads in Colorado.  On the day of the shooting, both men paid tribute to the
victims and called for reflection on the important things in
life.  “If there’s anything to take away from this tragedy, it’s
a reminder that life is very fragile,” Obama said in  Florida .
“Our time here is limited and it is precious.”  Romney, speaking in  New Hampshire , said he and his wife,
Ann, joined the president and first lady in offering “our
deepest condolences for those whose lives were shattered in a
few moments of evil in Colorado.”  He said this is a “moment to grieve” and to “remember
how much we love one another, and how much we love and how much
we care for our great country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  