-- Louis Vuitton Bags Defeating Jet Li Heroes in Hong Kong
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-07-22T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/louis-vuitton-bags-defeating-jet-li-heros-in-hong-kong.html
Bill Kong’s characters are known for
vanquishing their enemies with super-human feats. Think Michelle Yeoh’s gravity-defying fights in “Crouching Tiger, Hidden
Dragon” or Jet Li’s acrobatics in “Hero.”  In real life, the  Hong Kong  film producer is losing the
fight against a more insidious adversary: the luxury handbag.  “High-class retail is killing the cinema business,” Kong
says in an interview. “Cinemas are giving way to  Louis Vuitton (MC) 
stores.”  Gone are the days when landlords in Hong Kong used movie
theaters as a way to draw visitors to malls, says Kong,
executive director of Edko Films Ltd. “Now they say ’Get out,
we want LV.’”  No wonder, when a Louis Vuitton Monogram Empreinte Artsy MM
bag sells for more than HK$20,000 ($2,578) in the city and mall
owners get a share of the sale on top of rent.  “One LV bag is the equivalent of a full house of 150-200
seats,” he says. About 90 percent of Hong Kong cinemas are
housed in shopping malls.  The huge influx of mainland shoppers to Hong Kong in recent
years has produced long lines snaking outside Prada, Gucci and
 Christian Dior (CDI)  stores.  The number of cinemas has dropped to only 47 today from 77
locations in 1997, according to Hong Kong’s  Motion Picture
Industry Association . Broadway Circuit, Edko’s cinema arm with
14 cinemas, is Hong Kong’s largest chain.  Mainland Boom  In mainland China, meanwhile, the cinema building boom is
getting out of control, says Kong, whose company opened the
first joint-venture cinema in Shenzhen with China Film Group in
1983.  “It is becoming vastly overbuilt in certain areas such as
Shenzhen and Wuhan,” he says. “In Shenzhen every subway
station has one or two multiplexes.” Broadway has 19 cinemas,
with 118 screens in China, and may open two more later this year
in third-tier cities.  China ’s cinema building will more than double the number of
screens by 2015, from 6,200 at the end of 2010, according to Dan Mintz, chief executive of DMG Entertainment in Beijing.  At the end of 2009, the U.S. had 39,233 screens, up from
36,435 in 2004, according to the National Association of Theater
Owners.  Suitless Style  Kong, 61, is a far cry from your typical Hollywood suit.
Dressed in an open collar shirt, wind breaker and khaki pants,
he could easily be mistaken for a typical middle class Hong
Konger.  He’s worked with the region’s biggest A-list actors and
directors, yet is disarmingly modest and shuns the limelight.  “It’s good to keep a low profile,” he says over a plate
of spaghetti bolognaise during lunch in Hong Kong. “You get
things done more easily that way.”  Kong credits his success making films in China because he’s
a product of both East and West.  He left Hong Kong at 13, first for school in  England  and
later at the University of British Columbia in  Vancouver , to
study civil engineering. After “fooling around abroad” and
immersing himself in a culture of the Beatles and marijuana, he
returned home at 27 to join the family cinema operation and film
distribution business his father started in 1959.  By the late 1990s Hong Kong’s high real-estate costs were
already starting to pinch.  “It was very difficult to be an independent film
distributor in the late 1990s and the cinema business was
getting expensive,” he says.  Ang Lee  That’s when he decided to team up with Taiwanese director
Ang Lee, a longtime friend whose films Edko had distributed in
Hong Kong.  His first foray in production hit pay dirt. “Crouching
Tiger, Hidden Dragon” became the highest grossing foreign film
in the U.S. and won an Oscar for best foreign film in 2001.  Kong went on to produce other hits including Zhang Yimou’s
“House of Flying Daggers” (2004), starring Zhang Ziyi, and Ang
Lee’s steamy spy film “Lust Caution” in 2007 with Tony Leung
and Tang Wei. He also backed “Flowers of War” (2011) a thinly
veiled Chinese propaganda film about the 1937 Nanjing Massacre
starring  Christian Bale .  Still, official Chinese attitudes toward foreign film
makers are changing, as one of his next big projects
illustrates.  He’s teaming up with French director Jean-Jacques Annaud to
make a film based on the best-selling Chinese 2004 novel, “Wolf
Totem” by Jiang Rong, a kind of Chinese “Call of the Wild.”  Chinese Partner  The Chinese partner in the co-production is state-owned
China Film Group which answers directly to the State
Administration of Radio, Film and Television.  When Annaud made “Seven Years in  Tibet ” in 1997, the film
was banned in China for failing to toe the Communist Party line.  Annaud, who was selected to head up the international jury
at the 15th International Shanghai Film Festival last month, is
clearly no longer a persona non grata.  “You see how pragmatic the Chinese are. It’s no longer
’You hit me one time in the nose so I hate you for the rest of
your life,’” Kong says.  Hong Kong mall owners say they are keen to show support for
arts.  MTR Corp. (66)  says one its malls,  Elements , houses Hong Kong’s
largest cinema complex.  “Having some entertainment elements,” Chris Heywood,
senior portfolio manager at  Swire Properties (1972)  says, “provides an
exciting variety and enhances customers’ overall shopping
experience in  Pacific Place .”  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  John
Mariani  on wine and  Martin Gayford  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 