-- Low-Alcohol Lambrusco Cools Summer Sizzle With Light Fizz
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-07-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/low-alcohol-lambrusco-cools-summer-sizzle-with-light-fizz.html
Until June I had never ordered a
bottle of lambrusco in  Italy . With memories of those sweet,
fizzy, soda-like imports of the 1970s like Riunite Lambrusco
(“Riunite on ice -- so nice!”), I had no interest in
revisiting such wines, even in Emilia-Romagna, where lambrusco
is made. (For the record, Riunite, now about $6 a bottle, still
sells a million cases a year in the U.S., more than any other
import.)  But there I was on a hot summer’s day in Parma. So the
thought of a chilled, low-alcohol local wine with my lunch of
the region’s more admirable products, Prosciutto di Parma and
Parmigiano-Reggiano, seemed appealing enough.  I ordered a bottle of Otello Nero di Lambrusco, with 11.5
percent alcohol. It didn’t make a fizzy sound as it was poured
but it did have a slight effervescence -- what the poet Keats
called “beaded bubbles winking at the brim” -- and a rich,
deep purple color.  I inhaled the full-fruited bouquet and
sipped: it was brisk, only slightly sweet, and chilled,
immensely refreshing.  Right then, I made a vow to order only lambruscos for the
rest of my week in  Emilia-Romagna , the region reputed to have
the best, and richest, food in Italy, especially its famous
green lasagne alla bolognese, tortellini pasta, balsamic
vinegar, and mortadella salume.  Fizzy Lambrusco  It’s often said the fizzy lambrusco helps cut the fat in
Emilia-Romagna’s food, a virtue you would certainly not claim
for heady red wines like Piedmont’s barolos or Tuscany’s
brunello di montalcinos.  My regimen became revelatory. Bottle after bottle, I was
delighted and often impressed by the quality and variety of
lambruscos, which can range from a true rose color to a dark
magenta.  None rose above 11.5 percent alcohol, which meant I could
easily drink my usual half bottle at dinner without rising from
the table swooning.  Lambrusco is a wine with four Denominazione di Origine
Controllata (DOC) appellations in Emilia-Romagna. While some are
classified as rosatos and others as rossos, they are all to some
extent a little effervescent (“frizzante” in Italian), and may
be made secco (dry), amabile (semi-sweet) or dolce (sweet), from
a variety of lambrusco grapes.  Foamy Grasparossa  The sorbara variety, grown mainly in the north, produces
the most refined examples. The grasparossa variety produces
fuller bodied wines. I particularly liked the fairly foamy, very
dark and pleasingly dry grasparossa from  La Battagliola  winery.  In Bologna, where a new, 32-year-old chef named Riccardo
Facchini has restored the reputation of the old Ristorante
Pappagallo, I drank a 100 percent sorbara-based lambrusco from
Paltrinieri, a medium-bodied, rosy wine.  It went perfectly with a light pasta with mantis shrimp and
mussels and a glorious five-layer lasagna alla bolognese rich
with meat ragu and besciamella cream.  At Biassanot in Bologna, a trattoria whose name is local
dialect for “night owls,” I ordered gnocchi with Gorgonzola
and beef with porcini mushrooms, and chose a big lambrusco, made
from the maestri varietal, by Marcello. In 2011 it was selected
as the world’s best sparkling wine at the International Wine
Challenge in  London .  Verdi’s Music  Where did the week go? Lunch at  Trattoria Anna Maria , run
by chef Anna Maria Monari, was a plate of the lightest egg
tagliatelle I’ve ever had, enjoyed with Lambrusco Terre
Verdiane, whose label likes to tout the wine’s vivacity to the
music of Giuseppe Verdi. (Sparkling, vivacious, perfumed and
full of color like our region; a song among friends; emotional
force; and so on, according to my translation.)  My last bottle of lambrusco in Bologna was Sant’Agata,
another from the  Paltrinieri  estate, a superb example of the
finesse found in the sorbara grape, here macerated for two days
before fermentation to give it body.  I’m pretty sure I drank the whole bottle, with enormous
pleasure, over a sumptuous dinner at I Carracci, the splendidly
posh restaurant at the  Grand Hotel Majestic  Gia Baglioni. With
some culatello ham, a lasagne with Parmigiano fondue, and veal
scallopine with sauteed spinach, the two hours sped by, before
dessert, of course.  As a big believer in drinking the local wine with local
food, I couldn’t have been happier to derive such pleasure from
wine I had for so long neglected. With most of the better labels
selling outside Italy for less than $16 a bottle, it’s now hard
to imagine summer going by without it.  (John Mariani writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include an interview by  Manuela Hoelterhoff 
and Jeffrey Burke  book  review.  To contact the writer of this column:
 John Mariani  at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 