-- Penn State Removing Statue of Joe Paterno Outside Beaver Stadium
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-22T12:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/penn-state-removing-statue-of-joe-paterno-outside-beaver-stadium.html
Pennsylvania State University  will
remove the statue of the late football coach Joe Paterno outside
Beaver Stadium following a report that showed he helped cover up
child sex-abuse allegations against former assistant Jerry Sandusky.  The 7-foot likeness depicts Paterno, who won a Division I-
record 409 games over 46 years, running onto the field pointing
at the sky, jacket open, tie blowing to the side, like any fall
Saturday afternoon in  State College ,  Pennsylvania , where more
than 100,000 fans regularly fill the stands to root for the
 Nittany Lions .  Paterno died in January before being able to respond to an
investigation that found he didn’t block his former defensive
assistant from associating with the university despite awareness
of allegations. Sandusky, 68, who spent 31 seasons with Paterno,
was convicted last month on 45 criminal counts tied to the abuse
of 10 boys over a 15-year period and is awaiting sentencing.  “Coach Paterno’s statue has become a source of division
and an obstacle to healing in our university and beyond,”
President Rodney Erickson said today in a statement on the
school’s website. “I have decided that it is in the best
interest of our university and public safety to remove the
statue and store it in a secure location. I believe that, were
it to remain, the statue will be a recurring wound to the
multitude of individuals across the nation and beyond who have
been the victims of child abuse.”  Paterno Library  Penn State  will retain the Paterno name on the university
library, which was named after the coach and his wife, Sue, in
1994. The Paterno Libraries Endowment has more than $7.5 million
in funds, and buys thousands of books each year for campuses,
the university said in January after  Joe Paterno ’s death.  The statue became a rallying point for those who want to
erase any connection with the former administrators and coaches
who were involved in the sex scandal that has rocked school and
the central Pennsylvania region.  “Take the statue down or we will,” read  a banner  that was
flown over the stadium earlier this month. Students quickly
assembled around the statue to protect it from vandals in an
example of the opposing viewpoints that have torn at the campus
in recent months as details emerged about the sex abuse and
administrators efforts to protect the school from bad publicity.  Lettering on a wall behind the statue calls Paterno an
“educator” and “humanitarian,” and includes a quote from the
man who preached “victory with honor.”  Freeh Report  “They ask me what I’d like written about me when I’m
gone,” it reads. “I hope they write I made Penn State a better
place not just that I was a good football coach.”  Recent calls for the removal of the statue followed an
independent probe by former Federal Bureau of Investigation
Director  Louis Freeh , whose findings were made public July 12.  In the report, Freeh said that Paterno had known of
accusations against Sandusky before and after the assistant’s
retirement in 1999 yet didn’t ban him from the university and
failed to act aggressively to protect victims of potential
future abuse.  Paterno, who was fired in November after charges were filed
against Sandusky, died of  lung cancer  in January at the age of
85. He attempted to tell his side of the story when the
allegations surfaced but was asked by the university to wait
until after an investigation was conducted. He told Freeh he
wanted to talk to him, but died before an interview could be
arranged.  Freeh said at a news conference in Philadelphia when the
report was released that the saddest finding in his
investigation was the “total disregard for the safety and
welfare of Sandusky’s child victims by the most senior leaders
at Penn State.”  Other Actions  Penn State isn’t the only business or school trying to end
its association with Paterno’s name and now-tainted legacy.  Nike Inc. took his name off its child-care center the day
details of the Freeh report were revealed.  Brown University , Paterno’s alma mater, removed his name
from its annual award given to top freshman athletes and
coaching positions. It still might remove him from the school’s
athletic Hall of Fame.  Penn State students recently changed the name of the area
where they camp out for tickets the week of home football games
to “Nittanyville” from “Paternoville.”  Jason Lanter , a professor of psychology at Pennsylvania’s
Kutztown University and former president of the Drake Group,
which defends academic integrity in intercollegiate athletics,
said he didn’t think the statue should be removed.  “Penn State may want to wipe their hands and move forward,
but they can’t, and I don’t think they should,” he said in a
telephone interview. “I think it needs to be there as a
reminder of the good that can happen and the bad that’s
associated with it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  