-- Penn State’s Sanctions Hit Today After Paterno Statue Is Removed
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-07-23T04:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/penn-state-sanctions-to-come-tomorrow-as-paterno-statue-removed.html
Pennsylvania State University  will
be disciplined today by college sports’ governing body for its
involvement in the Jerry Sandusky child sex abuse scandal.  Mark Emmert , the president of the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association , will detail “corrective and punitive
measures” at a news conference in Indianapolis at 9 a.m. local
time, the ruling body said yesterday in a statement.  The announcement came on the same day that Penn State
removed a statue of former football coach  Joe Paterno  amid
criticism that he and the school didn’t do enough to investigate
allegations of abuse against Sandusky, a former defensive
assistant at the university.  The NCAA may fine Penn State between $30 million and $60
million, which would go toward an endowment for children’s
causes,  CBSSports reported , citing unidentified people in the
industry with knowledge of the situation. CBSSports said  Penn
State  will avoid the so-called “death penalty,” with NCAA
sanctions that impact the football program’s competitive ability
without shutting it down.  NCAA spokeswoman Stacey Osburn didn’t return an e-mail
seeking comment.  In addition to the fine, the NCAA may ban postseason play
for football or all sports for multiple years and strip the
school of scholarships. Penn State won’t appeal its punishment,
the  Harrisburg Patriot-News  reported on its website.  “Any punishment has likely already been agreed to by
PSU,” David Ridpath, a sports administration professor at Ohio
University in Athens, said in an e-mail. “I doubt the death
penalty would be something they would entertain.”  Death Penalty  The association has imposed the death penalty five times
and only once at football’s top level.  “I don’t know that past precedent makes particularly good
sense in this case, because it’s really an unprecedented
problem,” Emmert said in an interview with the Public
Broadcasting Service’s “Tavis Smiley” program July 16. “I
have never seen anything as egregious as this in terms of just
overall conduct and behavior inside a university.”  Emmert’s comments came four days after a report by former
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation Director  Louis Freeh  said school
officials tried to cover up abuse by Sandusky.  Sandusky, 68, who spent 31 seasons with Paterno, was
convicted last month on 45 criminal counts tied to the abuse of
10 boys over a 15-year period and is awaiting sentencing.
Paterno, who won a Division I-record 409 games over 46 years,
did not face criminal charges in the case.  Statue Removed  Even so, the seven-foot tall statue of Paterno outside
Beaver Stadium was removed yesterday. It came down after Freeh’s
report, which was commissioned by the university, said Paterno
helped cover up abuse allegations against Sandusky.  The statue became a “source of division and an obstacle to
healing at Penn State,” school president Rodney Erickson said,
adding that it will now be stored in a secure location.  Paterno’s family objected to the decision to remove the
bronze sculpture, which depicted the former coach running onto
the football field and pointing at the sky.  President  Barack Obama  believes Penn State’s removal of the
statue was “the right decision,” White House press secretary
 Jay Carney  said in a statement from Air Force One as Obama
traveled to  Colorado .  Penn State will retain the Paterno name on the university
library, which was named after the coach and his wife, Sue, in
1994, Erickson said.  Paterno, who was fired four days after Sandusky was
arrested Nov. 5, was prevented by the university from telling
his side of the story when the allegations emerged. Paterno told
Freeh he wanted to talk to him, but died of  lung cancer  in
January at the age of 85 before an interview could be arranged.  Multiple Titles  Under Paterno’s guidance, the Penn State program became one
of the country’s elite, with five undefeated seasons and
Associated Press national championships in 1982 and 1986. It’s
also been a financial boon for the university.  The football program had a direct business impact on the
state of $70.2 million, of which $50 million benefited Centre
County, according to a study commissioned by the university for
the 2008-09 school year. That included $51.1 million spent on
hotels, souvenirs, food, services and entertainment by out-of-
state visitors, which represent about 15 percent of those
attending games.  The football program had an operating profit of $43.8
million on $58.9 million of revenue in fiscal 2011, according to
the school’s records. Without football, the university would
have lost $29.1 million on $57.2 million of revenue.  Penn State has an endowment of $1.3 billion, the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette said in March.  Football’s Popularity  Closing the football program would unnecessarily harm
businesses in and around  State College ,  Pennsylvania , that rely
on the 100,000 fans who regularly attend games at Beaver
Stadium, said Lanter and Ellen Staurowsky, a professor of sports
management at  Drexel University  in Philadelphia.  “Does the NCAA have the moral authority to impose
penalties that have such far-reaching consequences not only for
an individual program or institution but, in this case, an
entire region?” Staurowsky said in an e-mail.  Southern Methodist University ’s football program was the
only one to get the death penalty from the NCAA, as it was
closed in 1987 after it was found that 13 players received
$61,000 from a slush fund provided by a booster. The Dallas-
based school was unable to field a team in 1988 and had one
winning record over the next 20 years after it returned in 1989,
before bowl game appearances in 2009, 2010 and last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  