-- Penn State Sanctions Due Tomorrow After Paterno Statue Removed
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-07-22T19:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/penn-state-sanctions-due-tomorrow-after-paterno-statue-removed.html
The  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  is poised to disclose sanctions against  Pennsylvania
State University , which today removed a statue of former
football coach Joe Paterno amid criticism that he and the school
didn’t do enough to investigate allegations of sexual abuse of
children.  ESPN said the NCAA may elect not to shut down the Nittany
Lions football team -- the so-called death penalty -- even after
a report by former Federal Bureau of Investigation Director
 Louis Freeh  said school officials tried to cover up abuse by
former assistant coach Jerry Sandusky.  “Any punishment has likely already been agreed to by
PSU,” David Ridpath, a sports administration professor at  Ohio 
University in Athens, said in an e-mail. “I doubt the death
penalty would be something they would entertain.”  Mark Emmert , the president of the NCAA, will detail
“corrective and punitive measures” at a press conference in
Indianapolis at 9 a.m. local time tomorrow, the college
athletics’ governing body said in a statement.  The association, which is based in Indianapolis, has
imposed the death penalty five times and only once at football’s
top level.  “I don’t know that past precedent makes particularly good
sense in this case, because it’s really an unprecedented
problem,” Emmert said in an interview with the Public
Broadcasting Service’s “Tavis Smiley” program July 16. “I
have never seen anything as egregious as this in terms of just
overall conduct and behavior inside a university.”  Death Penalty  Shutting down the football program is the “only punishment
that fits this crime,” Geoffrey Rapp, a sports law professor at
the University of Toledo in Ohio, said in an e-mail.  “The failure here was at the highest levels of  Penn
State ’s leadership,” Rapp said. “Anything less than a break
from football would not address the fundamental cultural shift
needed here.”  CBS News  reported on its website, citing an NCAA official
it didn’t identify, that the school and its football team face
“unprecedented” penalties.  Should it choose not to impose the death penalty, the NCAA
may ban postseason play for football or all sports and strip the
school of scholarships.  Penn State should not be allowed to make a profit from
football for as many as four years, said Jason Lanter, a
professor of psychology at  Pennsylvania ’s Kutztown University
and former president of the Drake Group, which defends academic
integrity in intercollegiate athletics.  Support Fund  “Any money Penn State football makes above and beyond the
bottom line of football expenses goes straight to a fund to
support the prevention of child abuse and to help cover the
college expenses of the victims,” Lanter suggested in an e-
mail.  Closing the football program would harm businesses in and
around  State College , Pennsylvania, that rely on the 100,000
fans who regularly attend games at Beaver Stadium, said Lanter
and Ellen Staurowsky, a professor of sports management at  Drexel
University  in Philadelphia.  “A meaningful response to the Penn State situation should
come from an organization that is a moral exemplar,” Staurowsky
said in an e-mail. “Does the NCAA have the moral authority to
impose penalties that have such far-reaching consequences not
only for an individual program or institution but, in this case,
an entire region?”  SMU Football  Southern Methodist University ’s football program was closed
in 1987 after it was found that 13 players received $61,000 from
a slush fund provided by a booster. The Dallas-based school was
unable to field a team in 1988 and had one winning record over
the next 20 years after it returned in 1989, before bowl game
appearances in 2009, 2010 and last year.  The NCAA also shut down the  University of Kentucky 
basketball team for the 1952-53 season; the basketball team at
the University of Southwestern Louisiana for two seasons from
1973-75; the men’s soccer team at  Morehouse College  in 2004 and
2005; and the men’s tennis program at  MacMurray College  for two
seasons from 2005-07.  The seven-foot statue of Paterno outside Beaver Stadium was
removed this morning after Freeh’s report, which was
commissioned by the university, said Paterno helped cover up
child sex-abuse allegations against Sandusky.  A forklift behind blue screens about six-feet high could be
seen, in pictures broadcast by ESPN, taking away the statue. It
will be stored in a secure location, Penn State President Rodney Erickson said today in a statement on the school’s website.  Family Objection  “Paterno’s statue has become a source of division and an
obstacle to healing in our university and beyond,” Erickson
said. “Were it to remain, the statue will be a recurring wound
to the multitude of individuals across the nation and beyond who
have been the victims of child abuse.”  Paterno’s family objected to the decision to remove the
bronze sculpture.  “Tearing down the statue of  Joe Paterno  does not serve the
victims of Jerry Sandusky’s horrible crimes,” a statement from
the family said.  Penn State will retain the Paterno name on the university
library, which was named after the coach and his wife, Sue, in
1994, Erickson said.  The statue depicts Paterno, who won a Division I-record 409
games over 46 years, running onto the field pointing at the sky,
jacket open, tie blowing to the side, like any fall Saturday
afternoon at the stadium.  Sandusky, 68, who spent 31 seasons with Paterno, was
convicted last month on 45 criminal counts tied to the abuse of
10 boys over a 15-year period and is awaiting sentencing.
Paterno did not face criminal charges in the case.  Silenced, Fired  Freeh said in his report published July 12, that Paterno,
whose motto was “success with honor,” had known of accusations
against Sandusky before and after the assistant’s retirement in
1999 yet didn’t ban him from the university and failed to act
aggressively to protect victims of potential future abuse.  Paterno, who was fired four days after Sandusky was
arrested Nov. 5, was prevented by the university from telling
his side of the story when the allegations emerged. Paterno told
Freeh he wanted to talk to him, but died of  lung cancer  in
January at the age of 85 before an interview could be arranged.  Freeh said at a news conference in Philadelphia when the
report was released that the saddest finding in his
investigation was the “total disregard for the safety and
welfare of Sandusky’s child victims by the most senior leaders
at Penn State.”  Under Paterno’s guidance, the Penn State program became one
of the country’s elite, with five undefeated seasons and
Associated Press national championships in 1982 and 1986.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in  Dallas   at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 