-- Power Dearth Threatens Indonesia Smelter Bids: Southeast Asia
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2012-07-23T09:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/power-dearth-threatens-indonesia-smelter-bids-southeast-asia.html
A shortage of electricity in
 Indonesia  may hamper President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s plan
to ban all raw-ore exports by 2014, as he seeks to increase
revenue by forcing companies to refine locally.  More than 1 gigawatt of additional capacity may be needed
to power the smelters required for the world’s biggest nickel
producer and largest exporter of tin to process its ore,
according to Xavier Jean, the Singapore-based associate director
of corporate ratings at Standard and Poor’s. It may take longer
than three years to build a plant capable of producing that much
power, according to Nur Pamudji, president director of state
utility PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara.  Asia ’s second-biggest copper producer after  China  banned
shipments of some metals on May 6, and the prohibition takes
effect on all raw ore in 2014. The curb, combined with an export
tax, is aimed at increasing revenue from higher-value processing.
 Japan , the second-biggest global buyer of nickel, has threatened
to complain to the  World Trade Organization  about the
restrictions.  “Project management complexity will increase substantially,
as not only do companies need to manage the construction of
large smelters but they also need to manage the construction of
the associated power generation units,” Jean wrote in an e-mail
to Bloomberg News this month. “The risk of delays is high, and
that could force the government to pragmatically delay or tone
down some of the recent regulations applied to the sector
regarding the export of unprocessed ores.”  Ban Waivers  Indonesia banned exports of 32 types of unprocessed metals,
waiving the restriction for companies operating under so-called
mining business licenses that are planning to build local
refineries. Those shipments are subject to a 20 percent tax. The
country relied on mining for about 12 percent of its gross
domestic product last year, according to data from the
statistics bureau.  The government also ordered miners to register for an
export permit that’s valid for three months, which includes a
sales quota. Indonesia has issued 31 permits out of 68
registered exporters, including  PT Aneka Tambang (ANTM) , the country’s
second-largest nickel producer, and local units of Freeport-
McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)   Aneka Tambang fell 3.7 percent to 1,300 rupiah as of the
noon break in Jakarta trading.  PT Vale Indonesia (INCO) , the country’s
largest nickel producer, declined 3.7 percent to 2,575 rupiah.  The country’s June nickel exports dropped 80 percent to
572,106 tons from a month earlier, the trade ministry data
showed. Indonesia’s copper exports declined 89 percent to 20,000
tons in the same month.  Java-Bali System  Listrik Negara sees Java as the most suitable place to
build the smelters, as proximity to power stations is vital,
Pamudji said.  “It would be better if the smelters are built on Java
island where the supply is sufficient for the next several
years,” Pamudji said at a meeting between mining companies and
the chamber of commerce June 28. “Building new  power plants 
with technology suitable for smelters will be very expensive.”  The Indonesia Chamber of Commerce and Industry puts the
potential consumption at 1.5 gigawatts for at least 40 plants. 1
gigawatt can supply 769,230 Indonesian households at 1,300 watts
per house.  The Java-Bali power system has a storage capacity of 29
gigawatts, while peak usage is only 20 gigawatts, Pamudji said
at the time. Miners and the government are seeking to build the
smelters near mines in Kalimantan, on Indonesia’s part of Borneo
island, or Sulawesi.  Supply Commitment  Listrik Negara has committed to supplying power for
smelters in other islands including Sumatra and Sulawesi,
Thamrin Sihite, director general of minerals and coal at the
Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry, said July 17.  As much as 74 percent of Indonesia’s population was
connected with electricity as of March, according to data from
Listrik Negara. That’s lower than the electrification ratio of
Southeast Asian neighbors such as  Thailand ’s 99.3 percent and
 Vietnam ’s 97.6 percent.  “If the smelters were built gradually, electricity supply
could be sufficient,” Pradi Wigianto, a Jakarta-based energy
and power system consultant at  Frost & Sullivan , said in an e-
mail interview. “Electricity supply in Java island would be
able to meet demand for gradual development of smelters this
year because of improved infrastructure.”  Regions outside Java would be able to meet demand in the
next two-three years if smelters are willing to pay higher
electricity tariffs because costs to build plants and produce
electricity are higher than in Java, Wigianto said.  Shifting Burden  “What the government probably has in mind, in my view, is
to partially shift the burden of power infrastructure spending
to the mining sector,” Jean said. “The government probably
expects miners to build large capacities in excess of their
needs that can be reallocated to other sectors of the economy
and to households through sales to the grid.”  The government has received 154 proposals since the rule
took effect in May, up from 24 before the regulation, Sihite
said.  Among companies that were planning to build processing
plants before the May implementation are nine iron-ore smelting
projects including PT MJIS in South Kalimantan and PT Jogja
Magasa in Yogyakarta, Panggah Susanto, director general of
manufacturing industry at the Ministry of Industry, said July 17.  Other projects include three copper smelters by PT
Nusantara Smelting in East Java, PT Global Investindo in Papua
and PT Indosmelt in South Sulawesi, Susanto said. There are also
three alumina plants and three nickel smelters planned, all in
eastern Indonesia, he said.  China Nickel Resources Holdings Co. (2889)  plans to start
construction of a steel plant in South Kalimantan province this
month with an investment cost of as much as $1.5 billion,
Indonesia’s Energy Minister Jero Wacik said June 21.  The central bank forecasts the country’s $847 billion
economy will expand 6.3 percent to 6.7 percent next year, from
6.1 percent to 6.5 percent in 2012, Bank Indonesia Deputy
Governor Halim Alamsyah said at a forum in Singapore July 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at   gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  