-- Reds’ Larkin, Cubs’ Santo Inducted Into Baseball Hall of Fame
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-22T20:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/reds-larkin-cubs-santo-inducted-into-baseball-hall-of-fame.html
Former Cincinnati Reds shortstop
Barry Larkin was inducted into the  National Baseball Hall of
Fame  after a 19-year career that included the 1995 National
League Most Valuable Player award.  A 12-time All-Star, Larkin received 86 percent of the 573
ballots submitted by members of the  Baseball Writers Association
of America . He was inducted today into the Cooperstown, New
York-based Hall of Fame along with  Ron Santo , the late Chicago
Cubs third baseman who was elected with 15 votes from the 16
members of the Golden Era Committee late last year.  Larkin thanked his parents and former teammates including
 Pete Rose , Eric Davies, Dave Parker, Buddy Bell and Dave
Concepcion in his speech.  “My inclusion in the Hall of Fame is the ultimate
validation,” Larkin said. “I want to thank you all for helping
me along the way.”  Larkin, who was on the ballot for the third year, garnered
62 percent of votes in 2011, a year after receiving 52 percent.
Nominees need at least 75 percent approval for induction and
this is the fourth time in seven years that only one player was
voted into the hall by the writers’ association.  In a career spent entirely with the Reds, Larkin had 2,340
hits, 198 home runs and stole 379 bases to go with a .295
batting average. In 1990, he batted .353 to help the Reds win
the  World Series . Larkin, 48, joins former catcher Johnny Bench
as the only two players who spent their entire careers with the
Reds to be elected.  ‘Phenomenally Proud’  “I am so looking forward to being part of that elite team,
reaching baseball immortality,” Larkin said in January after he
was elected. “I am so phenomenally proud.”  Santo, a nine-time All-Star who battled diabetes throughout
his career, died in December 2010 at the age of 70. He had 342
home runs and won five Gold Gloves for his defense while playing
for the Chicago Cubs and White Sox from 1960 through 1974.  “This is not a sad day,” Vicki Santo said in her
acceptance speech on behalf of her late husband. “This is a
very happy day. It’s an incredible day for an incredible man, a
man who lived an extraordinary life to its fullest.”  Former New York Yankees center fielder  Bernie Williams , who
was on the ballot for the first time, received 10 percent of the
vote, while 20-year veteran Ruben Sierra drew no votes and was
removed from the list.  Jack Morris received 67 percent, while Jeff Bagwell (56
percent),  Lee Smith  (51 percent), Tim Raines (49 percent), Edgar Martinez (37 percent), Alan Trammell (37 percent), Fred McGriff
(24 percent), Larry Walker (23 percent) and  Mark McGwire  (20
percent) also came up short.  Next year’s class of new candidates will include  Barry Bonds , the major league career home run leader and seven-time NL
MVP, and  Roger Clemens , a 300-game winner and record seven-time
recipient of his league’ of his league’s Cy Young Award as the
best pitcher.  Bonds was convicted of obstructing a federal investigation
into steroid use in baseball and Clemens last month was found
not guilty of lying to Congress about his use of performance-
enhancing drugs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  