-- Reliance Set to Benefit From Rebound in Refining Margin
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-07-23T04:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/reliance-set-to-benefit-from-rebound-in-refining-margin.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , operator
of the world’s biggest refining complex, is set to gain on a
rebound in profit from turning crude into fuel from the lowest
in more than a year as the U.S. and  China  seek to revive growth.  Profit from turning Dubai crude into fuel in  Singapore , a
regional benchmark, averages $4.26 a barrel this month, compared
with $3.37 in the three months ended June 30, the lowest since
December 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Turning
 Dubai crude into diesel  in Singapore is the most profitable
since January, according to PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a London-
based crude and refined-products broker.  Reliance, which gets more than 77 percent of its revenue
from refining, reported a margin of $7.60 a barrel in the three
months ended June 30. That helped it beat analysts’ estimates
for  net income  for the first time in seven quarters even as
earnings dropped 21 percent on slowing demand.  “Refining margins in  Asia  may have hit a bottom and could
pick up before autumn,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at
VTB Capital in  London . “Fuel demand, including from industries
and agriculture, may rise as nations such as China embark on
trying to boost economic growth.”  The improved margins helped the company controlled by
billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , beat analysts’ estimates by 2.3
percent in the three months ended June 30.  The  shares  have dropped 17 percent in the past year,
resulting in Reliance losing its spot as  India ’s biggest company
by market value. The stock rose 0.1 percent to 723.35 rupees as
of 9:19 a.m. in Mumbai, after declining as much as 1.3 percent.
The company has a market value of about $43 billion, the third-
highest among India’s listed companies.  China Bets  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last week the government
will step up policy fine-tuning in the second half this year to
support growth, reiterating comments made earlier this month.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 17 that U.S.
policy makers are studying options for further stimulus.  Reliance boosted fuel sales from its adjacent refineries,
capable of processing 1.24 million barrels of crude a day, by
8.5 percent last quarter to 17.2 million metric tons from a year
earlier, according to a July 20  presentation  on its website.
Exports, which accounted for 54 percent of sales, increased 5.6
percent to 9.3 million tons.  “Oil demand should be supported by demand recovery in
China,” Reliance said in the presentation. “Loosening of
monetary policy in emerging economies, especially in Asia, is
likely to spur demand for commodities.”  India Rates  The People’s Bank of China announced a second cut in
 interest rates  in a month on July 5 and reduced banks’ reserve
requirement ratio three times since November, as the world’s
second-biggest economy seeks to  revive growth . The nation
expanded at the slowest pace in three years last quarter.
Industrial production grew 9.5 percent in June compared with 9.6
percent in May and 9.3 percent in April.  India’s industrial production rose 2.4 percent in May
compared with a 0.9 percent contraction in April and 3.2 percent
drop in the previous month. The  Reserve Bank  of India cut
 interest rates  by 50 basis points to 8 percent on April 17.  Profit from  turning  Dubai crude into diesel in Singapore
averages $17.40 a barrel this month, according to PVM Oil
Associates. The margin widened to $18.17 a barrel on July 11,
the highest in five months.  ‘Good News’  Prices of diesel, or gasoil, for loading in Singapore’s
ports rose 9.7 percent this month after falling 6.4 percent in
June and 13 percent in May. About 35 percent of the fuel sold by
Reliance is diesel, according to Deven Choksey, managing
director at K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. in Mumbai.  “The profit from diesel in Asia is already rising in July
and that’s very good news for Reliance,” Choksey said.
“Refining will probably lead Reliance out of the slowdown.”  Reliance reported net income of 44.7 billion rupees ($809
million) in three months ended June 30, 21 percent lower than a
year earlier and the third straight quarter of declines. The
profit beat the 43.7 billion rupees estimate of 28 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , also known as Sinopec, is
boosting crude oil production to counter losses in its refining
units. The refiner, Asia’s biggest, posted a 35 percent drop in
profit in the quarter ended March 31 as margins at its
processing plants narrow.  Sinopec processed 109.76 million tons of crude oil in the
first half of this year, up 1.1 percent from a year earlier,
according to the document posted on parent China Petrochemical
Corp.’s website July 20. Its gasoline output rose 7.9 percent to
19.61 million tons.  Brent Climbs  China, the world’s second-biggest oil consumer, has cut
local fuel prices three times since May as crude rates declined,
reducing profit for Sinopec and  PetroChina Co. (857)   Brent crude  has increased 10 percent this month, the first
increase in four months. Higher crude prices may force China to
raise fuel prices, helping revive margins, according to Kamlesh Kotak, the Mumbai-based vice president of research at brokerage
firm Asian Markets Securities Pvt.  China revises gasoline and diesel prices under a system
that tracks the 22-day moving average of a basket of crudes
comprising Brent, Dubai and  Indonesia ’s Cinta. The government
may change fuel rates when the measure falls or rises more than
4 percent from the last adjustment.  Brent crude and Dubai’s Fateh oil have increased 7 percent
since the July 11 price cut.  “Economies, fuel demand, refining margins are still not in
the best shape,” Kotak said. “There are some rays of hope, and
Reliance is probably poised to take advantage of that.”  Reliance has eight sell ratings by  analysts , 19 holds and
24 buys, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The number of
buy recommendations has dropped to 47 percent of the total, the
lowest since March 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  