-- Roma Goes Moneyball as Owners Tap Nedved Mentor in Overhaul
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2012-07-23T08:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/roma-goes-moneyball-as-u-s-owners-tap-nedved-mentor-in-overhaul.html
Zdenek Zeman, who’s made tenfold
returns by unearthing undervalued soccer players, is scouting
for talent again as AS Roma’s U.S. owners ask the veteran Czech
coach to clean house in their second season at the Italian team.  Boston-based Thomas DiBenedetto and hedge-fund manager
James Pallotta, who bought the world’s 17th-richest club last
August, are paying down debt and trimming Roma’s 80 million-euro
($98 million) payroll to set it on an even keel after years of
overspending. They’re counting on Zeman’s eye for a bargain as
they swap pricey players for promising youngsters and build a
global brand to challenge giants such as  Barcelona .  While he’s never won a major trophy, the chain-smoking
Czech, who’s begun his second stint at Roma with a U.S. tour
that included a 4-0 win over Polish team Zaglebie Lubin in an
exhibition match in  Chicago  yesterday, has made a career of
turning unheralded players such as Pavel Nedved into stars. His
approach echoes “Moneyball,” the system  Oakland Athletics 
baseball executive Billy Beane pioneered to pick players based
on statistics and unsung attributes.  “The heritage from the past was quite tough,” Franco Baldini, Roma’s general manager, said in an interview this month
at a training camp in the Alps. “We need to come back from the
past where every season was run in debt. That’s why we brought
in Zeman because he’s famous as a manager that can improve the
quality of players, especially young players.”  Tight Budget  Zeman, 65, who fled to  Italy  after Warsaw Pact troops
invaded his native  Prague  in 1968, made a name for himself in
1991 by leading Foggia, which had spent most of the previous
three decades in the lower divisions, into Italy’s top flight.
While regularly selling its best players, he kept the club in
Serie A for three seasons by using a style that focused on
attack, as recounted in the 2009  documentary  “Zemanlandia.”  Among Zeman’s signings at Foggia were Giuseppe Signori,
Francesco Baiano, Roberto Rambaudi and Luigi Di Biagio, who were
sold on for as much as 10 times their original cost, according
to reports in newspapers such as Gazzetta dello Sport. All went
to top Serie A clubs and played for Italy’s national team.  While statistics play a far lesser role in soccer than they
do in baseball, Zeman has long prized certain attributes other
coaches may overlook for his hard-running 4-3-3 formation of
four defenders, three midfielders and three attackers, as
opposed to the one or two forwards deployed by many European
teams. They include work rate, dedication, stamina and speed of
thought. Beane hasn’t won baseball’s  World Series  using his
methodology as an executive.  Nedved Deal  Zeman went on to coach Lazio, where he bought midfielder
Nedved in 1996 for 8 billion lire, about $4 million at the time,
according to Gazzetta. The coach had first seen the Bohemian in
a friendly in Prague that year, months before he grabbed the
world’s attention by leading the Czechs to the final of the
European Championships. Later sold to Juventus for 70 billion
lire, Nedved was voted  Europe ’s best player in 2003.  Just as a World Series title has eluded Beane as an
executive, Zeman’s best results as a manager were second- and
third-place finishes at Lazio before a two-year spell at Roma,
which he led to fourth in 1998 before being dismissed after
accusing Juventus players of doping. In 2008, he was fired after
losing his first five matches at Red Star Belgrade, leaving the
team at the bottom of  Serbia ’s first division for the first time
in 24 years.  Fenway Match  Roma’s owners, who have stakes in baseball’s Boston  Red Sox 
and the Celtics basketball franchise as well as  Liverpool FC ,
have tasked Zeman with finding young talent as they jettison
more expensive players to shave 20 percent, or 16 million euros,
off the wage bill. Roma is scheduled to take on Liverpool in a
friendly game on July 25 at Fenway Park, home of the Red Sox.  “Every player has his own characteristics,” Zeman said
last week in an interview at Roma’s training camp in Riscone in
the Italian Dolomites. “The problem is it’s a team game and you
have to find the right balance, the right players to complement
each other.”  Roma has raised $39 million since last summer by selling
stars Mirko Vucinic of Montenegro,  France ’s Jeremy Menez,
 Norway ’s John Arne Riise and Italy’s Fabio Borini, according to
stock-market filings. They also plan to save about 38 million
euros by offloading six of their oldest and best-paid players
including striker Marco Borriello, Chilean playmaker David Pizarro and Brazilian defender Juan.  The American owners sanctioned 44 million euros for new
players last season, many in their early 20s, including
Barcelona’s Bojan Krkic and River Plate’s Erik Lamela, who each
cost 12 million euros.  ‘Can’t Afford’  This season, purchases include two Brazilians: Jonatan
Lucca, who cost 700,000 euros from Internacional, and Marquinho,
acquired for 3.5 million euros from Fluminense, according to
stock-market filings. U.S. midfielder  Michael Bradley  joined
from Chievo Verona for 3.75 million euros.  Roma’s captain Totti, 35, who’s spent his entire career at
the club, isn’t convinced by the new approach.  “We can’t afford yet another transition year,” he told
reporters in Riscone this month. The club, which finished
seventh last season, missing out on a place in Europe’s elite
Champions League competition, won’t win a trophy without signing
a star, he said.  Big-name players such as Real  Madrid ’s Cristiano Ronaldo
are also key to boosting popularity abroad, according to Marcel
Vulpis, a Rome-based sports-business analyst. The ‘Moneyball’
strategy may not work, he said.  Debt, Delisting  Roma’s U.S. owners, who together with co-investor  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  control 78 percent of the three-time Serie A champion, are
looking beyond the wage bill as they seek to enhance the club’s
value, which Forbes in April put at $354 million. Since their 60
million-euro takeover, the club has paid off 40 million euros of
debt, approved a 50 million-euro capital increase and may be
delisted from the Milan Stock Exchange next year.  To boost revenue above last year’s 110 million euros, the
club is improving marketing, merchandising and ticket sales
under Chief Executive Officer Mark Pannes, a former executive at
the  New York  Knicks basketball franchise. It also plans to build
its own arena by 2016, ending a rental pact under which it
shares  Rome ’s Olympic Stadium with  Lazio. (SSL)  That initiative alone
could add 30 percent in extra revenue, Commercial Director
Christoph Winterling said.  ‘Zeman Effect’  The new coach is already bolstering Roma’s commercial
endeavors, according to Winterling, who credits sales of 20,000
season tickets a month before the new season, up from 18,500 all
last season, to the “Zeman effect.” Jersey sales among a
million fans in Rome and another 87 million worldwide are up 20
percent, while merchandise licensing is up 30 percent, he said.  While Zeman’s teams often lack the defensive bite needed to
win titles, their high-scoring antics almost guarantee Roma’s
supporters will be entertained as the club seeks its first
Italian championship since 2001.  Zeman says his 4-3-3 formation is more direct than that of
Spain or Barcelona, where his predecessor Luis Enrique coached
the reserves before joining Roma, because he’s “much less
patient.”  The Czech says he has no plans to change his style after
leading Pescara to the second-division title last season when
the team scored a record 90 goals.  “If you win 4-1, then you’ve done well playing that way,”
said Zeman, whose uncle Cestmir Vycpalek coached Juventus to two
Italian titles in the 1970s. “You must continue down that path
as there’s no need to change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Prague at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  