-- Romney Outsmarts Obama in Fight Over Multinational Taxes
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-22T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/romney-outsmarts-obama-in-fight-over-multinational-taxes.html
Mitt Romney ’s plan for taxing
multinational corporations would create 800,000 jobs, according
to President  Barack Obama .  “There’s only one problem,” the president added at a
speech in  Ohio  last week. “The jobs wouldn’t be in America.
They’d be in other countries.” That clever remark kicked off a
week of sparring between the two candidates and their surrogates
about the right way to tax corporations.  On this count, the president is wrong. Investment and job
growth abroad don’t necessarily mean job losses in the U.S. And
more importantly, Romney’s plan to tax multinational
corporations only on the income they earn domestically is on the
right track.  Properly structured, and combined with a lower corporate-
income-tax rate, a so-called territorial system could make U.S.
companies more competitive, simplify the  tax code , reduce
compliance costs, boost real wages and enable companies to
repatriate the more than $1.2 trillion they are now holding
abroad for fear of the tax man.  Worldwide Mess  The U.S.’s current “worldwide” tax system is a mess.
Large companies are taxed on all their income, domestic and
international, at a top official rate of 35 percent (one of the
highest in the world, although most pay a lower effective rate).
When these companies earn money abroad, they pay taxes to the
host government, then again to the U.S. when the profits are
repatriated. They receive credits for what they’ve already paid
in foreign taxes, and can defer U.S. taxes until the profit is
brought home.  The rationale for such a system is known as capital-export
neutrality: If companies are taxed equally at home and abroad,
the thinking goes, they will make decisions about where to
invest based on business considerations and not tax advantages.
That reasoning no longer holds in a global economy in which a
company’s foreign branches can grow by simply investing retained
earnings and accessing  capital markets  on their own.  The current system also leads to a web of distortions. It
puts U.S. companies at a disadvantage, since almost all other
advanced countries have moved to some version of a territorial
system. It  encourages  companies to take on debt. And compliance
costs are enormous relative to what the government receives in
revenue.  It also leads to gamesmanship. The tax can be deferred
indefinitely as long as the earnings aren’t repatriated, so
companies retain their profits abroad. Multinationals also use
elaborate strategies to show that their income wasn’t really
earned in the U.S., including a practice known as transfer
pricing, by which they manipulate the way they value
transactions between subsidiaries to allocate profit to low-tax
jurisdictions.  A territorial system would go a long way toward improving
this picture. Foreign profit would be exempt from taxation, so
there would be no reason not to repatriate it. U.S. businesses
looking to invest abroad would no longer be at a competitive
disadvantage. And a vast amount of red tape would be eliminated
in short order.  There are, of course, drawbacks. For instance, we’d still
need to address  transfer pricing . A good first step would be to
beef up the  Internal Revenue Service . The tax agency can do a
better job of making sure the value companies ascribe to
earnings in a given jurisdiction is consistent with the
resources and employees they have actually devoted to the place.
In other words, if you only have a mailbox in  Bermuda , please
don’t tell us that most of your profit is earned there.  More Productive  Companies would also have an incentive to move their
operations to lower-tax countries. But this is already
happening, mostly because the U.S. has higher labor and overhead
costs and companies want to be closer to customers in new
markets. U.S. corporate tax rates and the ability to defer taxes
surely play a role, too. Still, ending the tax disadvantages
American companies face when investing overseas frees them to
make sound business decisions on where to hire and locate
facilities without having to consult a phalanx of tax lawyers.  That will make them more productive -- and able to hire
more workers. And this is where the president is fundamentally
off-base. When companies expand abroad, they don’t necessarily
do so at the expense of American jobs. A  2008 study  by Mihir
Desai and Fritz Foley of  Harvard University  and James R. Hines
Jr. of the  University of Michigan  found that when companies
increase their foreign investment by 10 percent, they typically
boost domestic investment by 2.6 percent. Increased employee
compensation abroad also leads to better pay for American
workers.  The economists N.  Gregory Mankiw  and Phillip Swagel found
 similar results : The evidence “actually suggests that increased
employment in the overseas affiliates of U.S. multinationals is
associated with more employment in the U.S. parent rather than
less,” they wrote.  That’s hard to swallow if you’re a back-office worker whose
job is shipped overseas. But the solution is for the government
to do more to help displaced workers improve their skills -- not
to prevent companies from becoming more productive.  Finally, ending the tax on companies’ foreign profits would
undeniably mean lost revenue for the government. But the amount
wouldn’t be huge, and there are several smarter ways to make up
for it -- including pruning the more than 75 so-called tax
expenditures that benefit special business interests,
 instituting  a federal  consumption tax , and taxing some
noncorporate business income.  Reform on this score is in the air. We’ve argued for
eliminating the corporate-income tax altogether. Although that’s
unlikely in this political environment, both parties seem to be
converging on a lower rate -- which is a very good start.
Combined with a territorial tax regime, that would begin to
rationalize a convoluted, inefficient and outdated system.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to make  air travel  even
safer; William D. Cohan on a  merger gone very wrong ;  Albert R.
Hunt  on why this U.S.  presidential campaign  is tame;  Simon
Johnson  on why HSBC should find a CEO who will  break up the
bank ;  Pankaj Mishra  on the hidden history of  state capitalism ;
 Neil Barofsky  on the  failings of TARP .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 