-- Sales Slowdown Masked by Better-Than-Expected Earnings
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-07-23T14:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/sales-slowdown-masked-by-better-than-expected-earnings.html
Better-than-forecast earnings are
masking weaker sales growth in the most recent quarter as U.S.
companies including  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
improve margins to top estimates.  Sales rose an average 2.9 percent in the second quarter
among 119 members of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that have
reported results so far, the weakest since  a decline  of 9.6
percent in the third quarter of 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Only 42 percent of the reported companies have
topped analysts’ estimates on sales, while 73 percent have
beaten on profit, the data show.  The gap in results signals companies may hold off hiring
and expanding until demand rebounds globally. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers last week that progress
in reducing unemployment may be “frustratingly slow” with
joblessness stuck above 8 percent since February 2009.  “People are sitting on the sidelines right now waiting to
see what happens,” Verizon Communications Inc. Chief Financial
Officer Fran Shammo said in a telephone interview last week
after the New York-based company reported in-line second-quarter
profit and sales. “This isn’t helping with growth, so I think
we will continue to mosey along here in the states.”  Earnings Drop  Analysts have lowered predictions for profit and revenue in
recent months. For earnings, they estimate a 1.6 percent decline
on average among all S&P 500 members after anticipating a 0.5
percent increase in May. Revenue may rise 1.8 percent on
average, down from a 3.7 percent estimate in May.  U.S. consumer confidence and equity  valuations  are
diverging the most in 17 years as the economy and profit growth
leave stock prices behind. The S&P 500 has traded at an average
price-earnings multiple of 13.9 this year, 0.18 times the mean
level of the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index
of consumer sentiment, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The gap is the widest since 1995, when the S&P 500 gained 34
percent for its biggest annual rally of the last five decades.  “The world is profoundly underinvested in U.S. equities,”
said  Jeffrey Saut , chief investment strategist at Raymond James
& Associates in St. Petersburg, Florida. His firm oversees $350
billion. “We’re in a confidence crisis, so Mr. Market is
unwilling to put a big, higher P/E ratio on it.”  IBM, GE  IBM raised its full-year  earnings forecast  last week, even
after second-quarter sales fell short of analysts’ estimates.
The Armonk, New York-based company has been shifting away from
hardware and services to focus on more profitable software,
where pretax margins increased 2.7 percentage points.  General Electric Co. (GE)  told investors July 20 that margins
will start to expand in the third quarter. Second-quarter
adjusted earnings beat estimates by 1 cent a share, while sales
fell short.  For many companies, growth has slowed across all regions.
 Nike Inc. (NKE) , semiconductor maker  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  and
casino operator  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  are among those that pointed
to weakening demand in China in recent weeks when they reported
lower-than-expected sales or cut forecasts.  China is in the midst of its slowest expansion in three
years, fueling investor concern that the country’s growth isn’t
enough to counter a recession in at least seven of euro-area
countries and sluggish spending in the U.S. The International
Monetary Fund projected last week that the global economy will
expand 3.5 percent this year. It trimmed its 2013 forecast to
3.9 percent from 4.1 percent.  China Slowdown  “The engines of growth that kept the world economy growing
are definitely slowing,” said David Kolpak, an analyst who
helps manage about $20 billion at Victory Capital Management in
Brooklyn, Ohio. “With the slowdown in China, the lack of
recovery in the U.S. and Europe getting worse by the day, it’s
not too surprising to see demand for just about any kind of
consumer or industrial product is not very healthy.”  Nike, the world’s largest sporting-goods company, posted
fiscal fourth-quarter revenue of $6.47 billion last month,
trailing the average estimate of $6.51 billion of analysts.  Puma
SE (PUM) , Europe’s second-largest sporting-goods maker after Adidas
AG, last week cut its 2012 forecast and said it will close
stores after business slowed in the first half.  Unpredictable World  Wynn, billionaire  Steve Wynn ’s Las Vegas-based casino
company, reported second-quarter revenue slumped 8.3 percent as
high-stakes gamblers in Macau curbed spending because of China’s
slowing economy.  “This is a world in which no one can predict tomorrow,”
Wynn told analysts on a July 17 conference call. “China,
incidentally, is more stable than anyplace else. Europe and the
United States are tricky.”  U.S. retail sales unexpectedly fell for a third month in
June. The 0.5 percent drop, reported last week by the Commerce
Department, exceeded the most pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 81 economists.  In one of the few bright spots,  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC reported U.S. auto sales for
June that surpassed analysts’ estimates. Sales accelerated to a
14.1 million seasonally adjusted annualized rate, according to a
e-mailed statement from researcher Autodata Corp.  Holding Off  In luxury,  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  dragged stocks lower this
month after reporting sales that missed analysts’ estimates,
fueling concern that Europe’s debt crisis and slowing growth in
China are finally taking a toll on demand for high-end goods.
That followed  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  cutting its full-year forecast in
May after revenue fell at its New York flagship store, a
shopping destination for overseas visitors.  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389) , the retail partner of Swatch Group
AG in China, said this month that demand for its luxury watches
has waned amid the country’s weaker economic growth. Sales
growth for high-end watches has slowed to a single-digit
percentage in recent months, according to Vice President Tan Li.  “If consumers are uncertain about the future, they may put
off purchases of big ticket items,” Tan said in an interview on
July 9.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest semiconductor maker,
scaled back its annual sales forecast last week as personal-
computer demand fails to rebound among consumers in the U.S. and
Europe. Rival Advanced Micro Devices disclosed second-quarter
revenue unexpectedly slumped 11 percent from the first quarter
after previously forecasting growth of as much as 6 percent.  Nobody Knows  The miss shows how difficult it is for companies and
analysts to accurately predict revenue. Slowing sales and
currency fluctuations forced  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s
largest consumer products company, to cut profit forecasts three
times in 2012. Analysts project revenue will fall 3 percent in
the fourth quarter ended in June, the first decline in 2 1/2
years.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) 
both reduced full-year forecasts.  “Nobody really knows how to call this economy,” said
 Michael Ward , chief executive officer of  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the biggest
eastern U.S. railroad. He spoke in a July 18 interview after
reporting second-quarter profit rose, helped by lower fuel
costs. Sales fell, trailing analysts’ estimates. “There are so
many moving parts out there that it’s hard to predict.”  McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant company,
reported a sales gain of less than 1 percent today to $6.92
billion, its weakest performance since the third quarter of
2009. Analysts had projected $6.96 billion. Earnings of $1.32 a
share trailed the average analysts’ estimate of $1.38.  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  are also among companies
projected to report their worst quarterly sales results in more
than two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re going to keep seeing lackluster results in sales,
especially by companies that have a global presence,” said
Diane Garnick, chief executive officer of Clear Alternatives
LLC, a New York-based asset management firm. “Not as many
people are spending money on discretionary items.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Chris Burritt} in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  