-- Australia Judge Calls Apple-Samsung Dispute Over 3G ‘Ridiculous’
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-07-23T07:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/samsung-and-apple-global-patent-fight-moves-to-australia-trial.html
Samsung Electronics Co. and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s patent dispute over wireless transmission technology is
“ridiculous” and might be best settled in mediation, the judge
overseeing the case in  Australia  said.  Samsung sued Apple claiming the maker of iPhones is
infringing three patents covering data transmission over the 3G
wireless spectrum. The suit was in response to Apple’s claim
that Samsung stole its design ideas for computer tablets and
phones. A trial scheduled to run for three months began today
before Federal Court Justice Annabelle Bennett.  Apple refused to pay a license fee for the technology that
allows phones to conduct multiple tasks including taking calls
while uploading photos to the Internet, Samsung’s lawyer  Neil
Young  said at the start of the trial. Apple was willing to pay
and Samsung refused, the Cupertino, California-based company’s
lawyer  Stephen Burley  said.  “Why on earth are these proceedings going ahead?” Bennett
asked the lawyers in court today. “It’s just ridiculous.” A
similar dispute between any other two companies would be
immediately ordered to mediation, she said.  “Why shouldn’t I order the parties to mediation?” she
asked. She said she would expect an answer before the end of the
week.  The Australian trial is part of a global dispute between
the two companies and a prelude to proceedings in the U.S. and
U.K.  $312 Billion  Samsung, the biggest maker of smartphones, and Apple, the
largest seller of tablet computers, are fighting for an
increased share of a handset market that Bloomberg Industries
said was worth $312 billion last year. Apple has won a ban on
the sale of Samsung’s Galaxy 10.1 tablet in the U.S. and failed
to win a ban in the U.K., pending patent infringement trials in
those countries.  “Both companies are fighting every single battle, no
matter how small, with great intensity,”  John Swinson , a
partner specializing in intellectual property at King & Wood
Mallesons in Brisbane, said in a phone interview.  Whatever the outcome of the trial, the losing side will
probably appeal, Swinson said.  “You could say, they’re working out the issues for the
appeal court.”  Fiona Martin, a spokeswoman for Apple in Sydney, declined
to comment on the trial.  ‘Blatant Copying’  Apple has used a standard statement in the past saying
“this kind of blatant copying is wrong and, as we’ve said many
times before, we need to protect Apple’s intellectual property
when companies steal our ideas.”  Samsung’s relationship with Apple broke down after the
maker of iPhones sued the South Korean company in  California ,
Young said today.  “Samsung has done nothing other than taken the steps to
protect its  patent rights ,” Young said.  He urged Bennett to hold separate trials on Apple’s and
Samsung’s claims.  “I don’t understand why,” Bennett responded. Young agreed
to make the request again later.  Samsung contends Apples’ devices, including the iPhone,
iPad and iPod Touch media player infringe patents the Suwon,
South Korea-based company says came from two decades of work
that it spent improving mobile phones.  “All of these things that Samsung built up, Apple was
using when it entered the market,” Samsung lawyer Charles Verhoeven of  Quinn Emanuel  said at the June 4 start of a trial
at the U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington .  Pending Cases  The commission, a quasi-judicial body with the power to ban
the import of products found to infringe patents or copyrights,
has more than a dozen pending cases involving smartphones and
tablet computers.  Trials in courts, where damages may be awarded for patent
infringement, are pending in the U.S. and U.K. A German judge on
March 2 rejected claims by both Apple and Samsung of patent
infringement over technology used in tablets and mobile phones.
More patent disputes are also pending in German courts.  The Australian case may be a rehearsal for the trials in
bigger markets, Swinson said.  “It’s like an out-of-town show playing in Toronto before
being brought to Broadway,” Swinson said. “Of course, success
in Toronto doesn’t mean it’ll be a success on Broadway.”  Galaxy Phones  Apple spent four months last year in a bid to keep the
Galaxy 10.1 out of Australia, with the country’s highest court
rejecting its request to ban the sales of the tablet in
December.  The patent disputes began when Samsung released its Galaxy
smartphones in 2010.  Steve Jobs , the co-founder of Apple who
died Oct. 5, initiated contact with Samsung in July 2010 over
his concerns that the Galaxy phones copied the iPhone, according
to Richard Lutton, an Apple patent attorney.  Jobs wasn’t involved in the talks, which failed to resolve
the dispute, Lutton said at a preliminary hearing in Sydney on
Sept. 29.  Apple sued Samsung in federal court in Oakland, California,
on April 15, claiming the Samsung phones and tablets infringed
its patents and the trademarked look of the iPhone and iPad.  A U.K. judge said this month the Galaxy tablets aren’t
“cool” enough to be confused with the iPad and allowed their
sale in the country.  The two companies have filed at least 30 lawsuits against
each other, according to Samsung.  Samsung is the largest component supplier for Apple. The
company gets about 8.8 percent of its total revenue from selling
memory chips, displays and other components for products such as
the iPhone and iPad, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  The case is: Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
NSD1243/2011. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  