-- S. Korea to Ease Mortgage Lending Rule to Spur Consumption
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-07-23T03:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/south-korea-to-ease-mortgage-lending-rule-to-spur-consumption.html
South  Korea  will ease a rule on
mortgage lending to stimulate the real-estate market and boost
consumption as faltering global demand hurts the export-reliant
economy, an adviser to President  Lee Myung Bak  said.  “We have seen that there are many irrational aspects to
the debt-to-income ratio limit” banks apply to residential
mortgage borrowers, Kim Dae Ki told reporters yesterday in
Seoul. “While we will maintain the basic framework of the
regulation, we concluded that certain irrational parts of the
rule should be eased,” he said, without elaborating.  South Korea ’s central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark
 interest rate  on July 12 for the first time in more than three
years as policy makers stepped up measures to counter the impact
of Europe’s debt crisis, a Chinese slowdown and muted U.S. job
creation. Growth in Asia’s fourth-largest economy may have
slowed to 0.5 percent in the second quarter from the previous
three months, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News  survey  ahead of a preliminary report due July 26.  “We expect Korea’s export-oriented economy to continue to
struggle amid tougher global economic conditions,” economists
led by  Mark Williams  and Andrew Kenningham at London-based
Capital Economics Ltd. wrote in a note dated July 23. “As a
result, the Bank of Korea’s policy rate cut this month is likely
to be followed up with more loosening soon,” they wrote.  Special Meeting  Kim spoke to reporters a day after Lee convened a special
meeting to discuss and review policies for the second half of
the year. Attendees included the prime minister, ministers
responsible for portfolios including the economy, labor, welfare
and land, the central bank governor, business leaders and
economists.  South Korea’s  Finance Ministry  said in a statement today
that it would provide specifics on measures to stimulate
domestic consumption “as soon as possible.” The plan will be
discussed today at an inter-ministerial meeting led by Vice
Finance Minister Shin Je Yoon, Kim said yesterday.  The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  of South Korean stocks fell 2.2 percent as
of 12:23 p.m. in Seoul, dropping along with other regional
benchmarks on concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  Home prices  in Seoul and surrounding areas have stalled
after a 66 percent jump in the decade to February 2008 raised
 household debt  to record levels and triggered government
measures to cool the market.  Prices Fall  Residential property transactions in greater Seoul fell 38
percent from a year earlier in the January-April period,
according to data from the Ministry of Land, Transport and
Maritime Affairs. Home prices nationwide have dropped 0.7
percent this year, according to an index compiled by Kookmin
Bank, the nation’s largest lender.  When housing prices fall, banks tend to seek faster
repayment of loans or increase interest rates, Kim said. “We
don’t want to further raise the burden for mortgage holders as a
result of falling real-estate prices,” he said.  Among measures being considered are exemptions from some
deposit-to-income ratio regulations for wealthy retirees who
have real-estate assets, Kim said.  The  Bank of Korea  on July 13 reduced its 2012 forecast for
economic expansion to 3 percent from a 3.5 percent prediction in
April, two weeks after the Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  cut its
estimate for export growth to 3.5 percent from a January
projection of 6.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  