-- South African Labor Laws Discourage Hiring, AngloGold CEO Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-07-22T12:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/south-african-labor-laws-discourage-hiring-anglogold-ceo-says.html
South Africa ’s labor laws, high
training costs and a lack of skills are discouraging companies
from hiring,  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  Chief Executive Officer Mark Cutifani said.  “As we look at all the things the government does to make
the country competitive and attractive to new investment, we
cannot forget to look at the things that create competitive
disadvantages,” Cutifani said in a column published in
Johannesburg’s Sunday Times newspaper today.  “We need only to look at the inflexible labor market which
acts as a disincentive to the employment of new labor market
entrants. Employers and unions need to find a better balance
between fair employment practices and the flexibility that is
needed to encourage employment.”  The  World Economic Forum ’s 2011-2012 Global Competitiveness
Report ranked South Africa 139th out of 142 countries in terms
of the competitiveness of its hiring and firing practices, just
behind France and  Sweden  and ahead of Portugal. It was 138th in
flexibility in determining wages, just after Sweden, and 127th,
after Mali, in the quality of its primary education system.  South Africa’s 25.2 percent unemployment rate is the
highest among more than 60 countries monitored by Bloomberg. The
government has pledged to create 5 million jobs by 2020.  “South Africa needs to develop a clear, consistent and
investor-friendly policy framework to create the right
conditions for business, investment and growth,” Cutifani
wrote. “We need a combined and coordinated effort by all role-
players. We need to rise above our narrow ideological positions
and come together to design a new future.”  AngloGold is Africa’s biggest gold producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 