-- Spain Scraps Siesta as Stores Stay Open to Spur Spending: Retail
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-07-22T22:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/spain-scraps-siesta-as-stores-stay-open-to-spur-spending-retail.html
The Spanish shopping siesta may be
about to become the latest victim of the sovereign debt crisis.  To stimulate spending after a 23 percent drop in retail
 sales  since 2007, the euro region’s fourth-largest economy this
month approved measures that allow shops of more than 300 square
meters (3,229 square feet) to open for 25 percent longer a week.
The new rules may encourage the outlets to sell during the
traditional afternoon snooze from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m., and on an
additional two Sundays or holidays a year for a total of 10.  “When everything was fine, nobody complained, but now that
things have gone awry, then it’s another story,” said Carmen
Cardeno, director general for domestic commerce at the nation’s
 economy ministry , which created the rules. “We need to evolve
and be more flexible.”  Spain  is following its European neighbors in trying to
liberalize shopping hours that have traditionally been checked
by governments in the region to protect religious observances,
for rest and on behalf of smaller retailers that have fewer
resources to staff shops around the clock. England has allowed
retailers to open for longer on Sundays during the Olympics than
the six hours usually allowed. In  France , food shops can be open
13 hours a day and stores located in tourist areas have the
right to open on Sundays.  Spanish shops are allowed to open for less time than
anywhere else in  Europe , according to its government, which was
asked by retail associations to allow large stores to open 16
Sundays or holidays a year. Some smaller merchants opposed the
extension, arguing that the bigger stores would have the
necessary manpower and they wouldn’t. The new measures allow
stores 18 additional business hours a week and will permit
merchants to decide when to cut prices in sales instead of only
twice a year.  Siesta Time  The country’s regions will get to decide how to implement
the rules, though they usually follow the lead of the central
government. In  Madrid , which is an exception, stores have been
able to open for as long as they want since July 15. Outlets of
less than 300 square meters also have no restrictions on opening
hours, though the Spanish tradition of eating at home and having
a siesta means most shopkeepers keep their businesses closed for
about two hours in the middle of the day.  The new measures may not be enough to offset shrinking
demand in Spain’s 217 billion-euro ($264 billion) retail
industry, which is worsening each year the crisis goes on in a
nation where one in four people is out of work. The number of
companies seeking  bankruptcy protection  rose 22 percent from a
year earlier to 2,224 in the first quarter, according to the
nation’s statistics institute, with commerce being the third-
largest contributor behind construction and housing firms and
industrial and energy companies.  ‘Almost Insignificant’  Javier Millan-Astray, director general of retail
association ANGED, said the approved loosening of restrictions
on opening hours doesn’t go far enough.  “The government’s reform is almost insignificant,”
Millan-Astray told reporters in Madrid, when retail groups
pushed for 16 Sunday openings.  The associations’ “new proposal
would help boost consumption and create more jobs because when
we open on a holiday, people come and shop. It’s unbelievable
that amid this crisis, we have to keep our stores closed.”  Spain has been wrestling with the dilemma of preserving its
culture and modernizing the industry for decades. The socialist
government of  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  in 2004 rolled back
liberalization of opening hours instituted by his predecessor,
bringing them back to rules from the 1990s and leaving the
country with the tightest regulations of any European country.  Job Creation  Even with the latest proposals, “retail regulation is
hurting both business and customers in Spain,” said  Fernando Fernandez , a professor at the IE Business School in Madrid.
“Both big and small retailers would benefit from fewer
restrictions. When big retailers such as Ikea or Zara open a
store, all small shops in that area benefit from that.”  Ending the restrictions completely would create 337,581
jobs across all industries and add 17.2 billion euros to
economic growth this year, according to a study commissioned by
the government, which examined the implications of several
scenarios. The nearest of those to the current proposals, under
which stores open on 16 Sundays or holidays, could have added
47,945 full-time retail jobs, the study found.  About 1.8 million people worked in retail in the first
quarter, 0.3 percent less than in the year-earlier period.  Stores are also bracing for change as the government looks
to the retail industry to help boost  tax revenue . Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  will increase the most common rate of  sales tax  to
21 percent from 18 percent on Sept. 1, putting an additional
brake on consumers’ ability to spend.  Foreign Tourists  The changes will make the country more enticing to
tourists, who have for decades been frustrated at finding shops
shut for the afternoon siesta. More than 57 million tourists
visit Spain every year, accounting for 10.2 percent of the
country’s  gross domestic product , the economy ministry says.  “It would be better if everything is open, not only for
tourists like me, who are here for just a few days, but also for
the Spanish economy as a whole,” said Victor Savioli, a 20-
year-old business student from  Sao Paulo .  With some stores getting as much as 50 percent of revenue
from foreign tourists, it has become “crucial” for them to be
able to stay open for longer and more often, said Jose Luis Nueno, a professor of IESE Business School in Barcelona.  “More flexibility will give a real boost to retailers,
especially those that are in survival mode because they rely on
the Spanish market,” Nueno said. “As the economic crisis
continues to hamper consumption and online shopping grows, shops
will push for more liberalization. This is just the beginning.”  Still, longer hours aren’t going to open the wallet of
Fatima Rodriguez, a 44-year-old resident of Barcelona, who first
needs a job to afford shopping more often for her 10-year-old.  Rodriguez, 44, gets 400 euros a month from a government
subsidy and after cutting her budget by half in two years is
concerned that she’ll have to reduce it even more. “I’m trying
to find a job, but it’s very difficult right now,” Rodriguez
said by phone. “I just don’t have any money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  