-- Syrian Rebels Battle for Aleppo After Seizing Border Posts
-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-07-22T15:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/syrian-rebels-take-fight-to-aleppo-after-seizing-border-posts.html
Syrian rebels are battling
government forces in the city of Aleppo after seizing some of
the country’s border crossings as the escalating conflict drove
thousands to escape to neighboring countries.  Rebel leaders with the al-Tawhid Brigade said in a video
sent to the  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  that their
military offensive to seize Aleppo has begun, according to a
statement posted on the U.K.-based rights group’s Facebook page
today. Rebels gained control of three neighborhoods in the city
and government forces intensified shelling of the city, Al
Jazeera television reported.  Forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad are battling to
save his government after rebel fighters took the fight to
Damascus and Aleppo and seized border posts with Turkey and
Iraq. The Syrian army’s inability to end an armed rebellion that
has killed more than 17,000 civilians in the past 17 months is
raising concern about the government’s ability to protect its
stockpiles of chemical weapons.  Syrian security forces killed 37 people today,  Al Arabiya 
television reported, citing activists. Foreign ministers from
the  Arab League  were holding crisis meeting in Doha today, Nile
News reported.  Aleppo Fighting  Armed clashes are taking place near the al-Zabadia police
station and the immigration and passport building in Aleppo, the
 Syrian Observatory  for  Human Rights  said on its Facebook page.
Battles are raging in the Aleppo neighborhoods of Saif al-Dawla,
al-Jameeliya and al-Meridian, it said.  Syrian forces caused “heavy losses among the terrorists,”
destroying three pick-up trucks equipped with machine guns
during clashes with armed groups in Qebtan al-Jabal to the north
of Aleppo, the  Syrian Arab News Agency  said, citing an
unidentified source. The Syrian army killed five rebels,
including two non-Syrians, in the Hayyan area, it said.  Damascus and Aleppo,  Syria ’s largest cities, had been
spared the worst of the violence until recently, as government
forces waged fierce battles in provinces such as Homs and Hama.
The two cities are home to merchants and wealthy Assad
supporters who have benefited from their close ties to the
administration.  The  Syrian Arab News Agency  today published images of Assad
meeting with Chief of General Staff of the Army and the Armed
Forces, General Ali Abdullah Ayyoub. During the meeting, Assad
give him his orders, the news service said.  Chemical Weapons  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said today that  Israel 
can’t accept any movement of sophisticated weapons from Syria to
Lebanon, where the Shiite Hezbollah is based.  “We can’t say anything more than this,” Barak said in
comments broadcast on Israel Army Radio. “Not when we will act,
not how we will act and not if we will act.”  Israel must be prepared for the possibility that Syria’s
chemical weapons could fall into the hands of Hezbollah or al-
Qaeda elements, Israeli Defense Ministry official Amos Gilad
said today.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said on July 18 that
the Assad regime was responsible for ensuring the safety of
chemical weapons.  Syrian troops were moving chemical weapons across the
country in preparation for their use, Reuters reported
yesterday, citing General Mustafa Sheikh, who defected to
 Turkey . The weapons are being moved from storage, possibly in
retaliation for the July 18 attack, the general told Reuters in
an interview, citing rebel intelligence obtained in recent days.  Bukmal Crossing  The Bukmal border crossing is under rebel control for a
third day, according to Farhan Iftekhan, the mayor of al-Qaim
city in western Iraq. “Clashes and fights between rebels and
state forces break out usually every night, but state forces
have failed to retake it so far,” he said in a phone interview.  “Iraqi troops have boosted their presence there and we
have closed the crossing with concrete walls” to stop anyone
from entering Iraq, Iftekhan said.  Muhaiman al-Taie, a spokesman for the Syrian Free Army, the
main opposition group, told al-Arabiya in an interview late
yesterday that the rebels were close to gaining control of the
Syrian city of Qamishly near the Turkish border.  Lebanon and Iraq struggled to cope with refugees fleeing
the violence. After a failed attempt at the  United Nations  to
sanction Assad’s government, the  Security Council  voted July 20
to remove in 30 days unarmed monitors who have been confined for
weeks to their Damascus hotel rooms because of the danger.  Town Seized  Rebels seized the town of Rwehina, about 1,400 meters from
Israeli troops in the  Golan Heights , Al Arabiya reported, citing
activists. The Free Syrian Army rebels seized government forces’
weapons in Rwehina, the television station said. The Israelis
captured the Golan Heights from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war.
Israel this week limited all military leave to guard against
growing instability in Syria.  Opposition fighters also seized the al-Yarubiya crossing to
Iraq, Sumaria News reported, citing an unidentified Iraqi
official.  Iraq  closed the Rabeia crossing to Syria after rebels
captured the Syrian section, Al Arabiya television said.  Dr. Nabil Zughaib, head of the Syrian missile program, was
killed with two members of his family in Damascus yesterday by
rebels, Iranian state-run al-Alam television reported.  Zughaib died with his wife and son while driving in the
Christian neighborhood of Bab Toma, and his other son was
hospitalized in critical condition, al-Alam said.  Border Crossings  More than 30,000 Syrians fled to Lebanon via the Masnaa
border, with cars backed up for a kilometer (0.6 mile) and
Lebanese security officials waiving the usual paperwork
requirements, the Beirut-based  Daily Star  reported.  About 125,000 Syrians have left the country since the 18-
month conflict began, and as many as 500,000 people still in
Syria have been displaced from their homes, the U.S. State
Department said July 19.  Even with UN-led peace efforts in tatters, Western nations
said Assad’s days were numbered. Those numbers are getting
“smaller and smaller,”  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the
UN, said July 20.  The Assad government held state funerals July 20 in
Damascus for top security officials killed in a bomb attack two
days earlier. Among the four victims, Assad’s brother-in-law,
Assef Shawkat, Defense Minister Dawoud Rajhah and the vice
president’s military adviser, Hasan Turkmani, were the most
senior officials to die since the uprising began.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  