-- U.K. Dividends Surge 18% to Record High in Second Quarter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-07-22T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/u-k-dividends-surge-18-to-record-high-in-second-quarter.html
Dividends in the U.K. grew 18
percent in the second quarter to a record high, bolstered by
one-time payments from  Old Mutual (OML)  Plc and GlaxoSmithKline Plc.  Payouts to shareholders by British companies increased to
22.6 billion pounds ($35 billion) in the three months through
June from 19.1 billion pounds in the year-earlier period, Capita
Registrars said in an e-mailed statement today, citing data from
Exchange Data International. The Payouts surpass the previous
record of 22 billion pounds paid in the second quarters of 2007
and 2008.  Dividend disbursements have grown for six consecutive
quarters, with the fastest growth coming from financial and
health-care stocks, which rose 31 percent and 30 percent
respectively, according to Capita. Oil and gas producers
accounted for the biggest payment with total dividends of 3.3
billion pounds.  “The worsening global and domestic economic picture has
not dented the enthusiasm among British firms to pay
dividends,” Charles Cryer, chief executive officer of Capita
Registrars said in the statement. “ Cash flow  is still strong,
yet corporate investment is very depressed. Dividends are one
destination for the large cash surpluses. Even without the
record special payments, underlying dividend growth has
surpassed our expectations.”  Old Mutual, the U.K.’s third-largest life insurer, returned
1 billion pounds to shareholders after the disposal of its
Scandinavian interests, while  Glaxo (GSK) , Britain’s largest
drugmaker, paid an extra 277 million pounds having sold its
North American over-the-counter medicines business.  Cyclical Boost  Payouts from industries closely tied to the economy,
including energy, media and finance, grew 30 percent in the
first half of the year, three times as fast as the 9 percent
rise in payouts from so-called defensive companies such as food,
health care and mobile telecommunications.  Capita increased its U.K. dividend forecast for 2012 to a
record 78.3 billion pounds from an earlier projection of 76.3
billion pounds. The increase in the forecast was said to reflect
a further surge in special dividends, and also a faster
underlying growth rate.  “We are more cautious about 2013 mainly because it is hard
to see the magnitude of special payments being repeated, leaving
regular dividends to do the heavy lifting,” said Cryer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  