-- U.S. AIDS Program Should Nix Anti-Sex Work Pledge, Activists Say
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-07-22T18:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/u-s-aids-program-should-nix-anti-sex-work-pledge-activists-say.html
The anti-prostitution pledge that
international AIDS groups must make to receive U.S. government
funding should be eliminated because it discourages sex workers
from taking advantage of the programs, advocates said.  Ten groups that advocate for sex workers today in
Washington called for an end to the pledge, which was added to a
U.S. law for the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, an
initiative known as Pepfar that was started in 2003 by President
 George W. Bush .  The pledge places sex workers at higher risk of contracting
the disease, and the current Obama administration should drop
the policy or stop enforcing it, said Melissa Ditmore, who edits
the annual journal Research for Sex Work.  Pepfar has contributed  $37 billion  since 2003 to efforts
that primarily fight HIV and AIDS in  developing countries , the
largest funding source for such efforts in the world. The pledge
attached to that money has led to “the reduction or complete
elimination of HIV prevention and treatment services for sex
workers in numerous” nations, the 10 groups said in a statement
at the start of the weeklong International AIDS Conference.  “It’s counter to all of the evidence of what works with
sex workers in HIV prevention,” Ditmore said in an interview.
For example, she said, the pledge discourages sex workers from
organizing “to prevent infections as a group.”  The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS said in
 guidance  updated in April that less than 1 percent of global
funding to prevent HIV and AIDS is spent on sex workers, who
“experience higher rates of HIV infection than in most other
population groups.”  One Love  Miriam Edwards, a former sex worker in Guyana, helped form
a group in 2008 called One Love to advocate for
decriminalization of prostitution in her country to stymie the
spread of AIDS. The group disbanded in 2011, she said, after its
leaders were forced to sign the pledge opposing prostitution or
repay money received from Pepfar.  Members of the group, most of them sex workers, “decided
this is not for us,” Edwards said in an interview.  U.S.-based organizations that receive Pepfar money aren’t
bound by the pledge because a federal appeals court ruled last
year that it violates the First Amendment. Groups based outside
of the nation, the primary targets of Pepfar, are bound by the
law, which is scheduled to be reauthorized by Congress in 2013.  “We’re obliged to enforce the law,” Tom Walsh, a
spokesman for Pepfar at the U.S. State Department, said in a
telephone interview. Despite the pledge, “we have felt able to
do what we need to do to meet the needs” of sex workers, he
said.  Walsh said he didn’t know whether the Obama administration
would seek a repeal of the pledge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  