-- New Strategies Needed to End AIDS Epidemic, Speakers Say
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-07-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/u-s-budget-squeeze-seen-as-threatening-push-to-end-aids.html
New strategies are needed to take
advantage of scientific breakthroughs that promise to break the
back of an AIDS epidemic that last year killed more than 4,000
people a day worldwide, U.S. and global officials said.  In opening remarks yesterday at the  International AIDS
Conference  in  Washington , U.S. Health Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  led a parade of speakers with similar messages: The
world needs to be more focused and efficient in getting
therapies and preventatives to those in need.  “If we are going to reach our ultimate goal of an AIDS-
free generation, we must challenge ourselves to do more,”
Sebelius said in her comments yesterday.  None of the speakers, though, offered specific programs to
increase global access to needed treatments. And the emphasis on
an epidemic endgame comes as the Obama Administration has said
it plans to decrease funding for global AIDS programs in fiscal
2013. The U.S. isn’t alone in taking such an action, said  Michel
Sidibe , of the United Nations organization, UNAIDS.  “From many places in the developed world I am hearing, ’we
cannot afford to keep our promises. We have our own problems at
home,”’ Sidibe, the groups’ executive director, said in his
remarks to the conference. “Financial commitment from developed
countries is declining. We have a funding gap of $7 billion per
year for HIV.  This gap is killing people.”  Gilead’s Truvada  Over the last two years, scientists have found that a daily
pill,  Gilead Sciences Inc.’s (GILD)  Truvada, can reduce the risk of
healthy people getting HIV by as much as 94 percent, and that
early treatment can stop infected people from spreading the
virus. What’s lacking is the money to convert that knowledge
into action, said  Chris Collins , a vice president at amfAR, the
Foundation for AIDS Research.  “We are at risk of not following through on one of the
great global health opportunities of our generation,” Collins
said in a telephone interview. “Either we make more investment
now, and really begin to see the end of this, or we don’t do
that and see this epidemic go on for generations.”  A record 34.2 million people worldwide are living with HIV,
according to the  World Health Organization . In  South Africa 
alone, a country where almost 1 in 3 people survive on  less than
$2 a day , 18 percent of those ages 15 to 49 are infected, the
data shows.  Other opening-day speakers at the AIDS conference included
World Bank president Jim Yong Kim and South African deputy
president Kgalema Petrus Motlanthe. Kim warned that the AIDS
epidemic is an economic crisis as well as a human one.  Economic Impact  “AIDS has devastating economic and social impacts on
individuals, families and communities,” Kim said. “We will need
more innovation in the years ahead to finish the fight.”  The conference, to be attended by more than 20,000
activists and researchers from around the world, comes at an
awkward time for President  Barack Obama .  Former President  George W. Bush , a Republican, more than
tripled U.S. funding for global treatment during the last five
years of his administration through the President’s Emergency
Plan for Aids Relief, or PEPFAR. With that increase, U.S.
funding covered about  59 percent  of all donations for global
AIDS relief, according to Jennifer Kates, director of global
health and HIV policy for the nonprofit  Kaiser Family Foundation ,
of  Menlo Park ,  California .  In 2010, the PEPFAR budget was $6.9 billion, including
money to combat tuberculosis, the leading killer of AIDS
patients. If Obama’s current budget plan is enacted, the funding
will fall to $6.4 billion in fiscal 2013.  Resource Motor  The U.S. believes other countries need to carry a larger
part of the financial load in the future, Eric Goosby, Obama’s
Global AIDS Coordinator, said in an interview.  “The  United States  can’t be ministries of health for all
of these countries,” Goosby said. “Our best chance at not
having the United States be the predominant resource motor for
HIV treatment and HIV/TB treatment on the planet is to bring
others to the table to put their resources to it.”  Even with diminished funding, the U.S. can increase the
number of people treated going forward because much of the
spending on infrastructure, including clinic construction and
the training of health-care workers, is done, he said.
Additionally about 98 percent of drugs used now are cheaper
generics, according to Goosby.  The average cost of a year’s supply of drugs has fallen to
$100 a person in the lowest income countries from $10,000 a year
in 2000, according to data from the WHO.  Cuts Questioned  Still, the funding cuts are being questioned even by some
in the president’s own  Democratic Party , at a time of
extraordinary scientific progress against the disease.  “We cannot walk away thinking we’ve done our part and it’s
on them now if we are serious about our goal of an AIDS-free
generation,” said Congressman James McDermott, a Democrat from
Washington, during a July 10 forum on the PEPFAR funding.  Representative Barbara Lee, a California Democrat, said
AIDS is no longer a priority for most law makers in Washington.  “It is about priorities; we have the resources,” Lee said
in an interview. “The focus seems really to be on dismantling
all our government programs, and HIV/AIDS initiatives are caught
up in that overall policy.”  In  Africa , the funding cuts over the past two years are
already being felt, according to Teguest Guerma, director
general of the African Medical and Research Foundation.  Guerma, whose  group  is the largest African-based non-
government health organization, said some already infected
patients have lost access to the free drugs they were getting
through the U.S. program, and there’s little chance of ready
access to Truvada for uninfected people at high-risk of
contracting the virus, such as sex workers and truck drivers.  Out of Reach  While AIDS medications can cost as little as $8 a month in
some countries, that’s still out of reach for many in Africa who
live on less than $1 a day, according to Guerma, whose
headquarters are in Nairobi,  Kenya .  African countries have been increasing funding to meet the
demand, she said, with low and middle income countries spending
about 15 percent more on domestic HIV programs last year, for a
total of about $8.6 billion. Still, it’s not enough, she said.  “Money is getting lower and lower,” Guerma said. “But
the need is still there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  