-- Mukherjee Elected India President in Victory for Singh
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-07-22T20:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/mukherjee-elected-india-president-after-40-year-career.html
Pranab Mukherjee  yesterday was
elected president of  India , the world’s most populous democracy,
capping a four-decade career in politics and delivering the
ruling party a success after a period of policy setbacks.  Mukherjee, 76, defeated Purno A. Sangma, 64, a former
speaker of the lower house of parliament, said V. Narayanasamy,
a minister in the prime minister’s office. He will be sworn in
July 25 for the largely ceremonial post. Mukherjee won more than
double the number of votes cast for his opponent in an electoral
college of federal and state legislators, CNN-IBN TV said.  Mukherjee, who served as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
finance minister from 2009 until last month, secured the support
of coalition allies, including the belated backing of the
Trinamool Congress, a regional party whose rebellions have
stalled policy making. Sangma was the candidate of the main
opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party .  The Congress party-led government must now switch its
attention to restoring investor confidence in its economic
management with “big ticket” policy initiatives, said  Arun Kejriwal , director of Kejriwal Research & Investment Services
Pvt. in Mumbai. “After this, what? That’s what the market wants
to know,” he said.  Singh’s senior economic adviser,  Montek Singh Ahluwalia ,
this month said he expected the administration to “very soon”
revisit its suspended push to allow foreign supermarket chains
to open stores in India as part of efforts to improve sentiment
after economic growth slumped to a nine-year low under
Mukherjee’s guidance.  Foreign Retailers  Ahluwalia said the government had set up monitoring
mechanisms to ensure faster implementation of road, port and
power projects. The measures will help boost economic growth and
increase foreign investment flows, he said.  The  president  oversees the creation of a government in the
event of a hung parliament and can in rare circumstances send
some bills back to lawmakers for reconsideration. The next
general election is due by early 2014.  Mukherjee had been the Congress party’s troubleshooter in
managing conflicts with allies including  Mamata Banerjee , leader
of Trinamool Congress, who has repeatedly blocked Singh’s
attempts to open up the economy to more foreign investment.  The former finance chief, who has headed as many as two
dozen ministerial panels on issues ranging from  food production 
to fuel prices, was rarely out of the news during Singh’s second
term. Mukherjee was often called upon to appease government
allies angered by proposed policy changes, not always emerging
victorious.  Married with two sons and a daughter, Mukherjee, who was a
teacher and journalist before entering parliament in 1969, has
had stints in charge of India’s foreign, defense, commerce and
steel ministries.  Mukherjee will take over from President Pratibha Devisingh Patil, whose five-year term ends July 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  