-- Murdoch’s Newspaper Board Exit Clears Legacy Before Split
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-07-23T07:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/murdoch-retreat-from-newspaper-boards-clears-legacy-before-split.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s resignation from
the boards of several  News Corp. (NWS)  newspapers may seek to reassure
investors that the fallout from a U.K. phone-hacking scandal
won’t follow them after the company splits into two units.  Directorships the 81-year-old  News Corp. (NWSA)  chairman and chief
executive officer quit last week include at News International,
the U.K. division that publishes The Times and The Sun,
newspapers that Murdoch acquired and used to help build a $53
billion global media empire over the past decades.  While News Corp. described the resignations as “nothing
more than a corporate housecleaning exercise” before the
planned separation, the New York-based company is formalizing a
more distant role for Murdoch, said Claire Enders, founder and
CEO of London-based media researcher Enders Analysis. U.K.
regulator Ofcom is examining whether Murdoch is fit and proper
to control a broadcasting license through News Corp.’s 39
percent stake in  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   “The Murdochs have always been keen to sit on every board
and have a finger in every pie,” said Enders, whose company
advises clients including the U.K. government. “The newspapers
don’t benefit anymore in the U.K. from having the ear of Rupert
Murdoch” and his resignation from the boards “seems to me to
be potentially pleasing to every constituency.”  Company Split  Bowing to pressure from  shareholders , News Corp. said last
month it plans to split into two publicly traded entities. The
publishing business will consist of newspapers in the U.S., U.K.
and  Australia , as well as book, education and marketing assets.
The media-and-entertainment company will have film and TV
businesses. Murdoch is slated to be chairman of both units and
CEO of entertainment when the deal closes in about a year.  In the year since the  Guardian newspaper  reported on July
4, 2011 that journalists at News International’s News of the
World hacked into the voice-mail account of a murdered teenager,
News Corp. has shut the tabloid and abandoned a 7.8 billion-
pound ($12 billion)  bid  for the remaining 61 percent of BSkyB.  Other boards that Murdoch stepped down from last week
include those of Newscorp Investments and Times Newspapers
Holdings, according to a regulatory filing. Prudence MacLeod,
Murdoch’s oldest daughter, remains a director at Times
Newspapers, a body Murdoch created to guarantee the Times’
editorial independence after he bought the newspaper in 1981.  Daisy Dunlop, a News Corp. spokeswoman in  London , said some
of the directorships Murdoch gave up are “small subsidiary
boards, both in the U.K and U.S.”  News Corp.  fell  1.1 percent to A$21.40 in Australian
trading and has advanced 19 percent this year.  ‘Fully Committed’  Tom Mockridge , head of News International, told staff in a
weekend memo that Murdoch “remains fully committed to our
business as chairman,” a person familiar with the e-mail said,
asking not to be identified because the message wasn’t public.  James, Murdoch’s younger son, also resigned from the boards
of News International and its newspapers this year. He stepped
down as chairman of BSkyB in April after his involvement in News
International attracted unwanted attention to the stake. The
Ofcom regulator has the authority to revoke a broadcaster’s
license, threatening part of News Corp.’s most profitable
business.  “After all, James and Rupert Murdoch are not all that
different in the play-out of the scandal,” Enders said.
“They’ve both been heavily implicated in different ways. So
this is a response.”  Sun Circulation  Operating income  at News Corp.’s publishing unit, which
includes the Wall Street Journal,  New York  Post and Times of
London, dropped 32 percent from fiscal 2008 to 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. A shift to the Web has cut
industry advertising and circulation revenue, while News Corp.’s
entertainment units, including Fox networks and the Twentieth
Century Fox film studio, increased profit by 13 percent.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Circulation at The Sun has declined 7.7 percent in the past
year through June, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulation.
The Times has lost 11 percent of readers as total daily
circulation in the U.K. has declined 9.3 percent.  News Corp.’s Sunday newspapers, which took a hit after the
News of the World closed, are declining as well. In May 2011,
about a month before it shut, the 168-year-old News of the World
had 2.7 million customers. News Corp. released the Sunday
version of the Sun in February to try to win back customers.
Since February, circulation has declined by almost a third to
2.1 million readers, according to ABC.  Political Influence  After inheriting an Australian newspaper in Adelaide in
1953, Murdoch built his empire, eventually acquiring television
assets and expanding internationally. In 1969 he bought The Sun
and The News of the World tabloids in the U.K.  His newspapers helped make him one of the world’s richest
men, giving him a net worth of $8.3 billion as of March, and
ranking him as the 106th wealthiest person, according to Forbes.
They’ve also provided him a platform to influence politicians.  As part of a judge-led inquiry into the phone-hacking
scandal, Prime Minister  David Cameron  and other high-ranking
British politicians were forced to explain why they attended
Murdoch family weddings, Christmas parties and vacations,
accepting rides on private jets and holding meetings on yachts.  Murdoch has made public his desire for one of his children
to follow him as CEO, grooming his oldest son Lachlan, daughter
Elisabeth as well as James as executives within his empire.  “You do have, for the first time, a complete Murdoch
gap,” Enders said. “They have a very direct and engaged style
of management in a number of matters by sitting on those boards,
but this unfortunately hasn’t saved them from embarrassment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  