-- Wiggins Becomes First British Champion of Tour de France
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-22T16:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/wiggins-becomes-first-british-champion-of-tour-de-france.html
Bradley Wiggins won the  Tour de
France  to become the first British champion of cycling’s most
prestigious race.  The 32-year-old Londoner crossed the finishing line on the
 Champs Elysees  in Paris after the final 74.6-mile ride between
 Rambouillet and the capital . The stage was won by Wiggins’s Team
Sky teammate  Mark Cavendish .  In a brief speech on the podium, Wiggins told the cheering
crowd, “Some dreams can come true, and now my old mother over
there, her son’s won the Tour de  France .”  Wiggins kept a 3 minute, 21 second lead over teammate Chris Froome and a 6:19 advantage over third-placed Vincenzo Nibali of
Italy. Riders traditionally don’t compete for places in the
overall classification on the final day.  Wiggins, who has led the race since stage seven of 20,
slowed down at the side of the road after crossing the finish
line, unclipped one of his shoes from the pedal and embraced
Australian teammate Michael Rogers.  A three-time Olympic gold medalist in track cycling,
Wiggins won both time trials and defended his advantage in the
mountains with the help of teammates.  Froome, a Kenya-born Briton, led him up the most difficult
mountain passes in the Alps and Pyrenees, slowing several times
to let him catch up.  ‘Absolutely Solid’  “He’s been absolutely solid,” Wiggins said on July 19.
“It doesn’t take a rocket scientist to work it out: You want
him in your team.”  Together, Wiggins and Froome saw off the challenges of
competitors, first that of defending champion  Cadel Evans  of BMC
Racing and then Liquigas rider Nibali.  “It was more of a case of everyone else faltering and us
just going on our way,” Wiggins said. “That’s the Tour: People
fall by the wayside.”  A Briton had never previously finished in the top three
places in the 109-year-old race. Wiggins came fourth in 2009
with U.S. team Garmin to match Robert Millar’s 1984 best placing
for a rider from  Great Britain .  He joined Sky for 2010, when he finished 24th at the Tour,
and withdrew from last year’s race because of a broken
collarbone.  Teammates  Froome was close to leaving Team Sky before finishing
second at last year’s Vuelta a Espana, ahead of third-placed
Wiggins, according to Richard Moore, the author of a book about
Team Sky called “Sky’s The Limit.”  That performance lifted his salary to 1.2 million pounds
($1.9 million) according to Moore, who said Froome had rejected
a previous offer of 100,000 pounds.  Cavendish told Eurosport television that his fourth
straight win on the final day was “the cherry on top of an
amazing Tour” for Team Sky. It was his 23rd stage win, moving
him ahead of seven-time champion  Lance Armstrong  and into fourth
place in the all-time list.  Slovakia’s Peter Sagan won the  green jersey  for finishing
atop the points classification.  Thomas Voeckler  of France took
top climber’s polka-dot jersey and the U.S.’s Tejay van Garderen
got the white jersey as best young rider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 