-- Yankees Fall to Athletics in Pitcher’s Duel; Dodgers Beat Mets
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-22T04:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/yankees-fall-to-athletics-in-pitcher-s-duel-dodgers-beat-mets.html
Jarrod Parker allowed five hits and
one run over eight innings, outdueling  Phil Hughes  as the
Oakland Athletics beat the New York Yankees 2-1 yesterday for
their fourth consecutive victory.  Oakland’s Brandon Inge hit a solo home run, his ninth of
the season, off Hughes in the bottom of the eighth inning to
snap a one-all tie. Hughes allowed two runs, four hits and two
walks over 7 2/3 innings, falling to 9-8 on the season.  New York scored its only run in the fourth inning on a
single by  Raul Ibanez . The Athletics have one-run victories in
the first three of the four games at O.Co Coliseum in Oakland.  Elsewhere in Major League Baseball action, the  New York
Mets  fell 8-5 to the  Los Angeles Dodgers , the  St. Louis
Cardinals  tied a franchise record with 12 runs in an inning and
Washington Nationals rookie Bryce Harper was hurt fouling a
pitch off his left leg.  Los Angeles third baseman  Juan Uribe  went 2-for-3 with
three runs scored and four runs batted in as the Dodgers handed
the Mets the eighth loss in their last nine games. The defeat
came after the Mets announced they placed pitcher Johan Santana
on the 15-day disabled list with a right ankle sprain.  The Dodgers opened a 4-0 lead in the third inning against
Mets starting pitcher Miguel Batista, and never trailed at Citi
Field in Flushing, Queens. Ronny Cedeno hit his second home run
of the season for New York.  Santana, 33, is 6-7 this season, with a 3.98 earned-run
average and 105 strikeouts. His ERA is 6.53 in the eight starts
since he threw the first no-hitter in Mets history last month.  The Cardinals broke a scoreless tie against the  Chicago
Cubs  with 12 runs in the bottom of the seventh inning at Busch
Stadium in St. Louis. Seventeen batters came to the plate in the
inning, with Skip Schumaker driving in three runs with a triple
and a double.  The 12-run inning, the game’s only scoring, ties a
franchise record set in 1926, according to ESPN.  Harper, who earlier this month became the youngest position
player to compete in an MLB All-Star game, left the first game
of the Nationals’ doubleheader with the  Atlanta Braves  after two
innings due to a left ankle bruise. After x-rays revealed no
broken bones, the 19-year-old outfielder entered the second game
as a pinch hitter in the eighth inning, when he singled and
stole his 12th base of the season.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  