-- Thailand Seeks ‘Concrete Progress’ on Dawei Port, Yingluck Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-07-23T07:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-22/myanmar-president-to-meet-yingluck-over-stalled-deep-sea-port.html
Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra said her government was committed to seeing
“concrete progress” in the development of the $8.6 billion
Dawei port and industrial zone in neighboring Myanmar.  Thailand and Myanmar agreed to hold ministerial-level
meetings starting next month to push forward with the project,
Yingluck told reporters in a joint briefing with Myanmar
President Thein Sein today in Bangkok.  Developer  Italian-Thai Development Pcl (ITD)  has found it
difficult to secure funds for the project at Dawei, which sits
about 350 kilometers (219 miles) west of Bangkok. The company is
courting  Japan  to secure $12.5 billion in loan agreements this
year to build the port, roads, power plants and a railway,
Chairman Premchai Karnasuta said on Dec. 26.  The ministerial committee will discuss “pending issues
related to the development of the Dawei seaport as well as the
expansion of areas necessary for industrial development,”
Yingluck said. “It will also take into account the interests of
the communities living in and around the Dawei area.”  Thein Sein arrived yesterday for a three-day trip and
visited Laem Chabang port, near Thailand’s biggest industrial
zone that companies such as  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  use as a production base. Thailand and Myanmar
plan to link Laem Chabang with Dawei, and may open three more
permanent checkpoints on their shared border, Yingluck said.  Democratic Reform  Thein Sein is seeking to attract labor-intensive industries
after pledging to create jobs and targeting economic growth of
7.7 percent per year until 2016. Democratic reforms since he
took power last year prompted Western nations to ease sanctions
and galvanized lawmakers to focus on economic growth after about
five decades of military rule left Myanmar disconnected from the
global financial system. Thein Sein today reiterated his
government’s commitment to democratic reforms.  “The government’s biggest priority now is to realize the
inflows of Western investment and aid that have been among its
main goals in implementing the reform process,” Eurasia Group,
a New York-based political risk firm, said in a July 20 report.
U.S. and European companies will face “strong competition”
from those in Thailand,  China , Japan and  South Korea , it said.  President  Barack Obama  this month authorized U.S. companies
to invest in Myanmar for the first time in about 15 years,
including with a state-run oil firm that opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi  urged multinationals to avoid. Thein Sein met
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  at a July 13 business forum
in  Phnom Penh  that included representatives from Google Inc.,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and General Motors Co.  Migrant Workers  Thailand, Myanmar’s second-biggest trading partner and
investor, is home to about two million migrant laborers who
crossed the 1,800-kilometer border looking for work. While the
neighboring countries both have similar populations of about 64
million people,  Thailand ’s economy is about seven times bigger,
according to International Monetary Fund  estimates .  Ko Ko Hlaing, the top political adviser to Thein Sein,
questioned Italian-Thai’s ability to oversee the Dawei project
during a May 2 interview in Yangon.  Executives at Thailand’s biggest construction company
“haven’t much experience in developing such a very big special
economic zone,” he said. “We need other big investors.”  Suu Kyi, visiting Bangkok last month on her first trip
outside Myanmar in 24 years, called for transparency in all
investments and aid outlays. Projects like Italian-Thai’s
planned deep-sea port left people “completely in the dark”
about what the contracts contained, she said on June 1 at the
World Economic Forum meeting that Thein Sein also planned to
attend before canceling at the last minute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  