-- 
Abbott Spinoff May Fetch $54 Billion as Humira Tempts Rivals

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-10-20T20:15:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/abbott-to-separate-into-two-companies-focusing-on-drug-areas.html
The breakup of  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) 
into two companies will create a prescription-medicine spinoff
that may become a $54 billion target for drugmakers looking to
rejuvenate their flagging portfolios.  The Abbott Park, Illinois-based company said yesterday it
will split next year, with one company selling medical products
and the other prescription medicines. Powered by Humira, an
anti-inflammatory with $6.5 billion in annual sales, the new
drugmaker may attract bids from Merck & Co.,  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  or
 Bayer AG (BAYN) , said Jeffrey Holford, a Jefferies Group Inc. analyst.  At a time when many companies face declining sales as
patents end on top-selling products, Humira won’t face generic
rivals until at least 2017. Abbott also has experimental drugs
for  kidney disease , hepatitis C and multiple sclerosis nearing
the market, though none will likely match Humira’s sales.  The drug spinoff “is likely to be an attractive target,”
said the London-based Holford in a telephone interview. “This
will be a fairly clean, stand-alone unit, the type that gets
picked up.”  The breakup will create a pharmaceutical business with
revenue worth about $18 billion this year, led by Humira and the
AIDS drug Kaletra, Abbott said in a statement. The second
company, which would keep the Abbott name, will sell heart
stents, infant formulas, generic drugs and other products
expected to bring in $22 billion this year.  $45 Billion  The prescription business may be worth $29 a share, Holford
said. That would place its value at $45 billion, based on 1.55
billion Abbott shares outstanding.  Jami Rubin , a Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analyst in New York, puts the price higher, at $54
billion, with a greater value possible depending on how much the
company may save through cost cutting.  Either estimate would value the operation between Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. of New York on the high side and Eli Lilly &
Co., of Indianapolis.  Roche, with 8.26 billion Swiss francs ($9.81 billion) in
cash and short-term investments as of June 30 according to
Bloomberg data, would be a likely suitor, as would Bayer, which
reported 3.84 billion euros ($5.6 billion) in cash and
investments, Holford said. Basel, Switzerland-based Roche needs
new products, while Bayer, of Leverkusen,  Germany , has said it’s
looking for acquisitions, he said.  Merck, of Whitehouse Station,  New Jersey , and London-based
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  may also be potential bidders, he said.  Shares Rise  Daniel Grotzky, a spokeswoman for Roche, Guenter Forneck, a
spokesman for Bayer, and Abigail Baron, a spokeswoman for
AstraZeneca, declined to comment. Ian McConnell, a Merck
spokesman, also declined to comment.  Abbott shares rose 1.5 percent to $54.05 at 4 p.m. The
stock had gained less than 1 percent in the two years before
yesterday’s announcement, even as the Standard & Poor’s 500
Health Care Index rose 10 percent.  The chief prize for any bidder would be Humira, Rubin said
in a telephone interview. She expects the drug to bring in $11
billion in sales by 2016.  The treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis and other
autoimmune disorders is likely to become the world’s top-selling
drug next year, after the current No. 1,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor,
begins to face generic copies, she said. Humira is likely to
generate cash for its owner well past its patent expiration
since it’s a complex biological drug that may be difficult to
copy, she said.  Generating Cash  “That $11 billion is probably going down” after the
drug’s patent ends, she said. “But it’s not going to zero, and
it’s going to throw off a ton of cash.”  The market for autoimmune treatments may grow by as much as
9 percent annually to $32 billion by 2015, according to IMS
Health Inc., the prescription-data company based in Norwalk,
 Connecticut .  Abbott also has “a handful of interesting biological
assets that the market isn’t giving them credit for,” Rubin
said. That makes it an attractive target for any  drug company 
looking to expand its biologics business, she said.  Catherine Arnold, a drug industry analyst with Credit
Suisse in  New York , said the price tag may be held down by
doubts about Humira’s potential successors within the Abbott
pipeline. Candidates like bardoxolone, for chronic kidney
disease, still aren’t proven, she said in a note to clients.  Would-be bidders may also have the same worries about
Humira that turned it into a drag on Abbott’s shares, said
Frederick Frank, vice chairman of New York-based investment bank
Peter J. Solomon Co. Humira generates about 40 percent of the
company’s earnings today. It will likely account for 80 percent
of profits at the new venture, Frank said.  ‘Hard to Replace’  “When it goes off patent, that is going to be a big
downer, and hard to replace,” he said.  The two companies Abbott is creating are  “very
different” in terms of business model, target markets,
distribution chains and other aspects, Chief Executive Officer
 Miles White  told analysts on a conference call yesterday.  “Both will be valued more accurately or, frankly,
appreciated more by investors” as separate entities, he said.
“I think we’ll see that we attract investors who haven’t been
in our company or haven’t invested in our stock as we allow them
the choice of these two, distinct identities.”  The split “is good news,” said Jan David Wald, an analyst
at Morgan Keegan & Co. in  Boston , in a telephone interview.
“You’ll start to see more people interested in the stock, which
has languished for years. The two companies each will be more
valuable than they are together.  Undervalued  “The medical device business is undervalued because it’s
part of pharma,” said Wald, who has an “outperform” rating on
Abbott. “The research pharmaceutical business can stand on its
own and do rather well because of the pipeline.”  White will head the medical products company while Richard Gonzalez will lead the pharmaceuticals business. The split is
expected to be completed by the end of next year, Abbott said.  The medical-products company will sell Abbott’s medical-
devices, including the world’s No. 1 heart stent, Xience,
diabetes products, diagnostic equipment and generic drugs.
Stents generated $2 billion in sales last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  