-- 
Euro Crisis Slows Macedonia’s EU Entry Efforts

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-10-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/macedonian-drive-to-eu-stalled-by-euro-crisis-premier-says-1-.html
The euro area’s debt crisis is
slowing Macedonia’s progress toward European Union membership as
talks with  Greece  over the use of the country’s name have
stalled, Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski said.  The former Yugoslav republic has been a European Union
candidate since 2005 and its spat with Greece has obstructed
negotiations. Greek officials say Macedonia’s name implies a
territorial claim on the Mediterranean country’s province with
the same name that was the birthplace of Alexander the Great.
Greece also blocked Macedonia’s NATO membership bid in 2008.  “The crisis in Greece hasn’t created serious problems in
the economy,” Gruevski said yesterday in an interview in
 London . “It’s causing us political problems. In the last
several months the discussions have been non-existent. We’re
losing a lot waiting outside.”  The delay in the talks is holding back economic
development, Gruevski said. Macedonia is calling on EU
governments to allow the negotiations to begin while at the same
time seeking a solution to end the name dispute with Greece,
Gruevski said.  Should entry negotiations begin, the country would be able
to join the trading bloc in two-three years, Gruevski said. The
deadline for starting EU entry talks “depends on Greece,” he
added.  Borrowing Plan  The Balkan nation of 2 million may borrow between 150
million euros ($207 million) and 200 million euros or seek a
loan guarantee from the  World Bank  to finance its 2012  budget
deficit , Gruevski said. The government targets a budget deficit
of between 2.3 percent and 2.5 percent of gross domestic product
next year, he said.  In March, Macedonia became the first country to draw on an
International Monetary Fund precautionary credit line. The
country borrowed 220 million euros of the 390 million euros
granted two months earlier after it shelved plans to sell
Eurobonds, citing early elections. Gruevski and his VMRO party
were re-elected in parliamentary elections on June 5.  The country has no immediate plans to tap international
bond markets because it still has money from its IMF loans and
the conditions in international markets have turned less
favorable, Gruevski said.  ‘Not so Stable’  “The markets are not so stable,” Gruevski said. The
country will decide next year whether to sell Eurobonds, take a
commercial  bank loan  or tap the IMF funds again “if markets are
very-very bad.”  Gruevski reiterated the government’s 2011 forecast for 3.5
percent economic growth, saying the government hasn’t revised
the estimate amid the global economic slowdown because of
faster-than-expected 5.2 percent growth in the first six months
of the year.  Next year the government expects growth to pick up to 4
percent to 4.5 percent, he said.  Foreign direct investment this year will be “close to”
the 2008 inflow of 430 million euros, which was the second
largest after 2007’s 570 million euro worth of foreign
investments, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  