-- 
Madoff Judge Backs Mets Owners in Quest for Confidentiality Before Trial

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-10-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/madoff-judge-backs-mets-owners-in-quest-for-confidentiality-1-.html
The  New York  Mets owners won new
confidentiality restrictions on information the liquidator of
 Bernard Madoff ’s firm gathers ahead of a trial over his right to
take back money withdrawn from the con man’s Ponzi scheme.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  set a March 19
trial date for trustee Irving Picard’s case against the Major
League Baseball team owners after narrowing by two-thirds the $1
billion demanded by Picard from  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz. In an
order published yesterday, Rakoff said he disagreed with Picard,
who had said Rakoff couldn’t modify the confidentiality rules
the trustee currently uses in bankruptcy court.  “The defendants’ proposal keeps confidential everything
that was previously marked confidential and simply adds some
modest, standard, further restrictions,” Rakoff said.  The trustee’s fear of added administrative burdens from the
changes “appears exaggerated,” he wrote.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Picard originally demanded $300 million in profit and
$700 million in principal from the Mets partners in a complaint
alleging they turned a blind eye to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. The
partners denied the allegations.  Rakoff said Picard could try to reclaim about
$386 million, based on bankruptcy claims. Picard has asked
Rakoff to let him appeal the decision.  Picard initially sued the Mets owners in  bankruptcy court .
They asked Rakoff to handle the case.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 