-- 
Agrokor Sees ‘No Changes’ for Slovenian Suppliers of Mercator

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-10-19T12:49:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/agrokor-sees-no-changes-for-slovenian-suppliers-of-mercator.html
Agrokor d.d., which will need
regulatory approval to buy  Mercator Poslovni Sistem (MELR)  d.d. in
Slovenia, won’t make any changes to suppliers for the
supermarket chain if its bid is successful, a vice president
said.  Slovenian producers and brands “needn’t have any fear”
should Agrokor, which owns regional supermarket chain Konzum
d.d. and is  Croatia ’s largest company, be successful in “its
desire to acquire Mercator,” Executive Vice President Ljerka Puljic said.  Agrokor on Oct. 17 made a non-binding offer for Mercator
that values the Slovenian company at 840 million euros ($1.15
billion) as it expands further in the Balkans.  Agrokor submitted a bid of 221 euros per share for half of
the Ljubljana-based company to adviser ING Bank NV, two people
involved in the offer said yesterday, asking not to be
identified because the bids aren’t public yet. If chosen,
Agrokor would have to extend its offer for the rest of the
shares, under Slovenian law, and may have to pay as much as 2
billion euros, including debt assumption, Poslovni Dnevnik
 reported .  “We respect the position of Slovenian brands on their
market, and there should be no change in that,” Puljic told
journalists in Zagreb today, adding the company would make no
comments about its bid at present. “We respect the expectations
of consumers as we have shown in our retail chain in  Serbia ,”
she said.  Agrokor is trying to deepen its reach in other former
Yugoslav republics as competition increases. Brussels-based
 Delhaize Group SA (DELB) , the owner of Food Lion supermarkets in the
U.S., bought Serbia’s Delta Maxi Group, the biggest chain in
that country. Agrokor last month asked Slovenia’s competition
protection office to approve its takeover.  Puljic also said Agrokor’s revenue this year will grow 8
percent from a year ago, an increase over a forecast of 6
percent made in a interview on June 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  