-- 
Thailand’s Baht Rises on Stocks Inflows; Bonds Gain as Rate Held

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-10-19T08:25:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/thailand-s-baht-rises-on-stocks-inflows-bonds-gain-as-rate-held.html
Thailand ’s baht rose, approaching a
three-week high, after international investors boosted holdings
of local assets. Government bonds advanced as the central bank
kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged today.  Global funds bought $83 million more Thai shares than they
sold in the first two days of this week, exchange data show. The
baht may pare gains on concern the nation’s worst floods in five
decades will hurt the economy, according to Okasan Securities
Co. The Bank of Thailand held its one-day bond repurchase rate
at 3.5 percent after this year’s six increases, a decision
predicted by all but one of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
One expected a 25-basis point cut.  “Risk appetite may not be that great but if you compare
the region’s growth with other developed nations,  Asia  is still
better, attracting funds,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a Tokyo-based
bond and currency dealer at Okasan Securities. “The floods will
decrease Thai exports and hurt the economy.”  The baht gained 0.2 percent to 30.69 per dollar as of 3:19
p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency touched 30.54 on Oct. 17, the strongest level since
Sept. 22.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index climbed for a
second day after Singapore said last week economic growth
accelerated in the third quarter and  China  reported data that
showed industrial production and retail sales beat economists’
estimates in September.  At least 930 factories in Thailand have been damaged by the
floods, according to the Ministry of Industry. The disaster may
erase between 1 percentage point and 1.7 percentage points of
economic growth this year, Finance Minister Thirachai
Phuvanatnaranubala said on Oct. 17.  Government bonds  rose as the central bank halted the
longest series of borrowing-cost increases since 2006.  The yield on the 5.25 percent notes due May 2014 declined
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.33 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 