-- 
Thailand’s Economy May Shrink This Quarter, Prasarn Says After Rate Pause

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-10-20T05:44:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/thailand-pauses-inflation-fight-pledges-spending-as-floods-rage.html
Thailand ’s economy may contract this
quarter and the central bank said it will lower growth forecasts
for 2011 as the worst floods in 50 years threaten to keep
factories closed for months, exacerbating risks from weakening
global demand.  The central bank may ease monetary policy if needed,
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said in Bangkok today, after
Finance Minister Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala said yesterday’s
decision to hold  interest rates  for the first time this year
failed to “help.” Gross domestic product may shrink this quarter
and the Bank of Thailand will probably reduce its 2011 growth
estimate to below 3 percent from 4.1 percent currently, he said.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra is struggling to limit
damage from surging waters that have killed 320 people, left
millions scrambling for dry ground since July and swamped more
than 1,000 factories operated by companies including Honda Motor
Co. While the central bank said it is aware of the severity of
the damage, it signaled vigilance against a resurgence in
inflation as reconstruction spending may spur demand for goods
and services.  “Sandbags remain stacked in Bangkok and elsewhere, and the
near-term outlook for growth remains shaky,”  Frederic Neumann ,
co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong
Kong , said in a report yesterday. “Given the devastating impact
of recent floods, especially on the manufacturing sector, a rate
cut would have provided a nice psychological boost. But, at the
same time, ultimate reconstruction spending will likely stoke
price pressures.”  Fight on Hold  The Bank of Thailand kept the one-day bond repurchase rate
at 3.5 percent yesterday, putting its fight against rising
prices on hold. The decision was predicted by 16 of 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, with one expecting a rate
cut. The central bank had boosted borrowing costs nine times
since the start of July 2010, more than any other major Asian
economy after  India .  “We can use monetary policy when there is a gap between the
real economy and its potential,” Prasarn told reporters today.
“If there is a wide gap, we can ease. If there is not much gap
and we ease too much, that will create problems. If we ease
monetary policy too much, it will create inflationary pressure.”  Thailand’s inflation slowed in September after accelerating
in August to the fastest pace since 2008. Still, core inflation,
which excludes fresh food and fuel prices, quickened last month
to 2.92 percent.  Growth Curtailed  Policy makers noted that the floods “would substantially
curtail economic growth in the remaining part of the year from
previously projected,” Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said in a statement yesterday. “Nonetheless,
upside risks to inflation from higher public and private
spending as the floods recede would need to be monitored.”  The damage caused by the floods may amount to as much as
120 billion baht ($3.9 billion), Prasarnsaid Oct. 14. He said
today the disaster may erase 100 billion baht off GDP because of
lower output and the figure excludes loss of assets.  Asia ’s expansion is already easing as faltering recoveries
in the U.S. and  Europe  weigh on the region.  China ’s economy grew
at the slowest pace since 2009 last quarter, Bank  Indonesia 
lowered interest rates this month while  Singapore ’s central bank
said it will reduce the pace at which the currency strengthens
as it lowered its 2011 growth forecast last week.  No ‘Help’  Thai stocks and the baht weakened in the past three months
as overseas investors sold emerging market assets amid faltering
global economic growth. The benchmark SET Index has fallen 17
percent while the baht has lost 3.5 percent over the period. The
 stock index  dropped 3.1 percent today, the most in Asia.  “This is not the time to worry about inflation or an
overheating economy,” Thirachai, the finance minister, said
yesterday after the rate decision. “Though we didn’t get help
on monetary policy, I am ready to go ahead and use fiscal policy
to revive the economy.”  The Cabinet on Oct. 18 agreed to widen the 2012  budget
deficit  by 50 billion baht to fund flood reconstruction. The
floods may erase between 1 percentage point and 1.7 points off
Thai growth this year, Thirachai said this week.  The central bank uses  core inflation  to guide monetary
policy and aims to keep it at less than 3 percent. It plans to
switch to using headline inflation in targeting price gains of 3
percent, with a so-called tolerance band of 1.5 percentage
points, from 2012, Prasarn said Oct. 4.  Inflation Trajectory  The Bank of Thailand “might continue its hiking streak”
in the first quarter of next year, Malayan Banking Bhd. said in
a note yesterday. “Inflation is likely to be back on its upward
trajectory amidst strong domestic demand and reconstruction
spending following the recovery from the floods.”  Japanese carmakers led by Honda, Toyota Motor Corp., and
Nissan Motor Co. may lose more than $500 million because of the
floods, according to Kohei Takahashi, an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in  Tokyo . Computer disk-drive maker Western Digital
Corp., which counts Hewlett-Packard Co. and Dell Inc. as
customers, may see exports from Thailand slide as much as 40
percent, Industry Minister Wannarat Charnnukul said Oct. 18.  The disaster will temporarily put 500,000 people out of
work, Deputy Prime Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said. Overseas
companies may slow investment or move operations to neighboring
countries unless Thailand bolsters its infrastructure and
strengthens flood defenses at its industrial estates, Kittiratt
said late yesterday.  Jobs at Risk  Rainfall about 25 percent more than the 30-year average
filled upstream dams to their capacity, prompting authorities to
release large amounts of water this month down a flood plain the
size of  Florida . The waters have affected 14,254 factories and
businesses in 20 provinces, leaving 664,567 workers at risk of
losing jobs, according to the Labor Ministry.  It will take about 40 days for the 12 billion cubic meters
of water, enough to cover  Connecticut  with about a meter (3.3
feet), to drain into the Gulf of Thailand, Irrigation Department
spokesman Boonsanong Suchatpong said. Yingluck called a meeting
last night to divert more of the water through provinces to the
east of Bangkok.  “We will try to build more levies but the water level this
year is massive,” she told reporters in Bangkok yesterday as
her eyes welled up with tears. “Wherever we drain the water,
there are always problems.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  