-- 
Thailand Holds Interest Rate for First Time in 2011 as Floods Hurt Growth

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-10-19T09:08:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/thailand-maintains-interest-rate-for-first-time-in-2011-after-flood-damage.html
Thailand kept  interest rates 
unchanged for the first time this year, ending its longest
series of increases since 2006, as the nation’s worst floods in
five decades and a weakening global economy crimped growth.  The Bank of Thailand kept its benchmark one-day bond
repurchase rate at 3.5 percent, it said in Bangkok today, a
decision predicted by 16 of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. One analyst expected a rate cut. The central bank had
boosted borrowing costs nine times since the start of July 2010,
more than any other major Asian economy after  India .  The floods may shave as much as 1.7 percentage points off
economic growth this year after destroying crops, damaging 1,000
factories and disrupting operations at Toyota Motor Corp. and
Nikon Corp. Inflation eased last month, giving the central bank
room to pause as Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra seeks to
shore up growth after  Thailand ’s worst natural disaster.  “The floods are hurting production, exports and workers’
incomes,” said Nalin Chutchotitham, a Bangkok-based market
analyst at Kasikornbank Pcl. “The central bank is definitely
more bearish on growth but they are very concerned about
inflationary pressure going forward as well.”  Thai stocks and the baht weakened in the past three months
as overseas investors sold emerging market assets amid faltering
global economic growth. The benchmark SET Index has fallen 13.7
percent while the baht lost 2.5 percent over the period. The
currency was little changed at 30.69 per dollar after the
announcement.  Damage Costs  The floods may erase between 1 percentage point and 1.7
points off growth this year, Finance Minister Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala said this week. The damage caused by the
floods may amount to as much as 120 billion baht ($3.9 billion),
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said Oct. 14. Prasarn has said
the central bank may lower its growth projections when it
releases revised figures on Oct. 28.  “The Monetary Policy Committee noted the severity of the
floods, which had already brought about partial halt in some
production sectors, and would substantially curtail economic
growth in the remaining part of the year from previously
projected,” Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said in a
statement today. “With the floods not yet over, their impact on
the economy was not fully evident.”  Six committee members voted for the rate to be kept steady
while one called for 25-basis-point cut, Paiboon said, adding
the central bank will be vigilant and ready to take “appropriate
policy actions.”  Fiscal Policy  “Even though we didn’t get help from the central bank, we
will continue to use fiscal policy to revive the economy,”
Thirachai said after the rate meeting.  Asia ’s expansion is already easing as faltering recoveries
in the U.S. and  Europe  weigh on the region.  China’s economy  grew
at the slowest pace since 2009 last quarter,  Bank Indonesia  cut
rates this month while  Singapore ’s central bank said it will
reduce the pace at which the currency strengthens as it lowered
its 2011 growth forecast last week.  The Philippine central bank will keep its benchmark rate at
4.5 percent when it meets tomorrow, according to all 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Japanese carmakers led by Toyota, Honda Motor Co. and
Nissan Motor Co. may lose more than $500 million because of the
floods, according to Kohei Takahashi, an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in  Tokyo . The three companies count Thailand as
their manufacturing base for  Southeast Asia  and are still
assessing how long the disruptions will last.  Western Digital ’s Exports  Computer disk-drive maker  Western Digital Corp. (WDC) , which
counts Hewlett-Packard Co. and Dell Inc. as customers, may see
its exports from the nation slide as much as 40 percent this
year, Thai Industry Minister Wannarat Charnnukul said yesterday.
Western Digital relies on its plants in Thailand for 60 percent
of its output and has about 40,000 employees in the Southeast
Asian nation.  The  Bank of Thailand  should lower rates to help businesses
cope with the impact of the disaster, Deputy Prime Minister
Kittiratt Na-Ranong said Oct. 6, after meeting with industry
leaders who requested loans with low borrowing costs. Thai
consumer confidence fell for a second month in September as
millions were displaced by the flooding.  Thailand’s inflation eased in September from a year earlier
after the rate accelerated in August to the fastest pace since
2008. Still,  core inflation , which excludes fresh food and fuel
prices, quickened last month to 2.92 percent.  Policy Flexibility  “Inflationary pressure continued to be sustained by growth
in domestic demand, though declines in input costs, such as
moderated oil prices from a weaker global economy as well as
more stable inflation expectations would lessen inflationary
pressure going forward,” Paiboon said. “Nonetheless, upside
risks to inflation from higher public and private spending as
the floods recede would need to be monitored.”  The central bank uses core inflation to guide monetary
policy and aims to keep it at less than 3 percent. It plans to
switch to using headline inflation in targeting price gains of 3
percent, with a so-called tolerance band of 1.5 percentage
points, from 2012, Prasarn said Oct. 4, adding that it will
provide “more flexibility” for monetary policy.  Some members of Yingluck’s government have called on the
central bank in recent months to hold off rate increases to
support government policies, including wage increases and tax
incentives for first-time buyers of cars and homes. The central
bank has argued that such plans to spur domestic demand are
inflationary.  “With persistently high core prices and rising food prices,
it is difficult for the central bank to let its guard down right
away,” said  Rahul Bajoria , a Singapore-based regional economist
at Barclays Plc. “The central bank will have to walk a tight
rope between growth and inflation for now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  