-- 
Malaysia to Continue Pushing for Liberalization, Jala Says

-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-10-19T06:11:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/malaysia-to-continue-pushing-for-liberalization-jala-says-1-.html
Malaysia will continue to step up
efforts to liberalize the economy as the country seeks private
investments, Minister Idris Jala said.  Barriers to entry in some industries will be removed
gradually, Jala said in an interview on Bloomberg Television in
 Singapore  today. The Southeast Asian nation will liberalize 17
services sectors and allow foreigners to fully control companies
in selected industries, Prime Minister Najib Razak said Oct. 7.  Malaysia has eased barriers to foreign investment since
Najib became leader in 2009 to transform the Southeast Asian
nation through improving efficiency and cutting a  budget deficit 
that counts as one of the largest in  Asia  as a proportion of
gross domestic product. The government forecasts the deficit gap
to narrow to 4.7 percent of GDP next year from 5.4 percent in
2011.  “We have made a very clear policy direction that we will be
creating the conditions for liberalization,” said Jala, a
minister in the Prime Minister’s Office and chief executive
officer of the government’s Performance Management and Delivery
Unit. “You cannot get to a new beginning without managing the
old, so the transition is required to cause this to open.”  Foreign direct investments climbed six-fold to 29.3 billion
ringgit ($9.4 billion) last year, the fastest in Asia, and grew
76 percent in the first half of 2011 to 21.3 billion ringgit,
according to the government. The government is “gradually and
steadily” cutting its deficit, Jala said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rishaad Salamat in  Hong Kong  at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net ;
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  