-- 
Malaysia Losses From Racial Law Exposed

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-10-19T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/malaysia-losses-from-racial-law-exposed-by-foreigners-in-penang.html
Lim Guan Eng turned Malaysia’s
second-smallest state into the nation’s biggest economic success
after he bumped into two  National Instruments Corp. (NATI)  executives
at the local airport in 2008.  Elected in March that year as  Penang’s  first chief minister
from an opposition party in 36 years, Lim was struggling with
the prospect of federal funding cuts. He convinced the managers
to set up a research and production center in the state, and
within two years the former British trading post was Malaysia’s
top destination for foreign manufacturing investment.  “The deal was struck very quickly,” said Eugene Cheong, a
director at the local unit of the Austin, Texas-based maker of
industrial testing and automation equipment.  Lim’s speed in closing deals with companies from National
Instruments to  Robert Bosch GmbH  is helping Penang achieve what
every Malaysian prime minister sought since Mahathir Mohamad
started his  Multimedia Super Corridor  technology zone in the
1990s near  Kuala Lumpur : a transition from low-cost assembly to
a research and development base for industries such as solar
cells and life sciences.  With a general election due by early 2013, Penang’s
progress highlights the challenges facing the rest of Malaysia
and the  National Front  government as  China ,  Indonesia  and
 Vietnam  offer investors bigger workforces while  Singapore  lures
talent with lower taxes and easier immigration. Lim, 50, the
country’s only ethnic-Chinese state leader, embodies the
contrast between Penang’s business transparency and the four-
decade old policies of the ruling party that favor Malays, which
the  World Bank  says undermine competitiveness.  ‘Been Sleeping’  “We’ve been sleeping,” said Ooi Kee Beng, Penang-born
author of “Era of Transition:  Malaysia  after Mahathir” and a
senior fellow at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in
Singapore. “Penang now has a chance to show that if you have
good governance, and if you put fairness and justice as your
main qualities, free of race considerations, that is actually
the way to go for Malaysia.”  In the first seven months of 2011, Penang won 3.6 billion
ringgit ($1.2 billion) of approved foreign manufacturing
investment, ahead of the 3.4 billion ringgit that went to
Selangor, the state that surrounds the capital Kuala Lumpur, a
government  report  showed last month.  It’s not the first time the state has set the pace for
technology investment in Malaysia. Penang, a base for the spread
of British influence in the 18th century, was the center of a
manufacturing push in Malaysia’s shift from rubber and tin
production in the 1970s, attracting companies including  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  and Robert Bosch to assemble chips and build car radios.  Political Alternative  Penang’s economic resurgence may bolster the opposition
alliance’s claim it can be an alternative to the National Front,
which has run the country since independence from British rule
in 1957. A national election may be called with 60 days’ notice
at the discretion of Prime Minister Najib Razak.  “A lot of this has to do with the dynamism of the chief
minister,” said Ong Kian Ming, a political analyst at UCSI
University in Kuala Lumpur and columnist for the Edge newspaper.  Lim has managed to keep Penang attractive for international
companies even as Najib focuses federal support on regions such
as Johor and Sarawak, where his ruling coalition has among its
biggest parliamentary-seat majorities.  Under Najib’s  Economic Transformation Program , his
government is promoting about 65.8 billion ringgit of private-
sector-led projects for southern Johor state, compared with at
least 375 million ringgit for Penang, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The comparison excludes projects covering multiple
states or those without a clear single location, which amounted
to 34.3 billion ringgit nationwide.  Federal Support  “Investment decisions are made on the basis of need not
politics,” said Tengku Sariffuddin Tengku Ahmad, a spokesman
for the prime minister. “Over the last year we have invested
more than 1 billion ringgit of federal funding in Penang and
will continue to support their economic progress in whatever way
we can,” he said in an e-mail.  Malaysia’s efforts to woo investments in recent years may
have been hampered by its policy of giving preferential
treatment to ethnic Malays and some indigenous groups,
collectively known as Bumiputera, in government jobs, contracts,
education and cheaper housing, said Ooi.  When the economy was booming along with its neighbors
before the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis, the effects of the
policy were less apparent, he said. When growth slowed, the
race-based program became a greater damper, according to Ooi.
While the nation outperformed rivals in the early and mid 1990s,
it has struggled to maintain that edge since the regional crisis.  Malay Contracts  Under federal rules, government construction contracts
valued below 200,000 ringgit must be given to indigenous or
Malay contractors. In addition, a main goal of the affirmative
action programs was to raise the Bumiputera share of corporate
stock ownership to at least 30 percent.  Najib said Sept. 27 that the programs, introduced in the
early 1970s to reduce poverty and narrow income disparities
between different ethnic groups, are becoming more merit-based.  In an interview in his 28th floor office, where the walls
are lined with paintings and sketches of Penang, some from the
19th century, Lim said the relationship between state and
central government wouldn’t hold Penang back.  “We may have political differences but we are cordial and
professional,” he said as he sipped ginseng tea made by his
wife. “If Penang fails, Malaysia fails.”  Ambiguous Practices  To prevent corruption, Penang requires open bidding on
contracts of more than 200,000 ringgit and has awarded about 125
million ringgit of jobs through competitive tenders, according
to Lim.  Transparency International  said in a 2009 report that
Penang, an island and coastal enclave linked by a 13.5-kilometer
(8.4-mile) bridge, was Malaysia’s first state to implement open
tenders for government contracts.  While Lim said his government awards contracts based on
merit within the national guidelines, the federal government
states that it has no obligation to accept the lowest offer or
to give any reason for rejecting a bid. Under Malaysian federal
rules, agencies are only required to invite quotations from at
least five bidders for works contracts.  “In domestic tenders, preferences are provided for
Bumiputera suppliers and other domestic suppliers,” the U.S.
Department of State said in a March report on Malaysia’s
investment climate. Implementations of the affirmative action
policy “vary greatly; some practices are explicit and contained
in law or regulation while others are informal, leaving much
ambiguity for potential investors,” it said.  Trained Accountant  The Malaysian government says it is also pushing for
greater transparency, including introducing a whistleblower
protection act to fight corruption and a planned competition law
next year.  “Open tender is a virtue, it’s a policy that is being
pushed through federally too,”  Idris Jala , a minister in the
Prime Minister’s Department and chief executive officer of the
government’s Performance Management and Delivery Unit, said in
Singapore yesterday. “For a country to grow, to become high
income, we must have competitiveness.”  Lim, who holds a Bachelor of Economics from  Australia ’s
Monash University, says his training as an accountant helps him
spot any discrepancies in state finances.  Property developers such as  Ivory Properties Group Bhd. (IVORY) 
will benefit from the inflow of workers and expatriates to
support Penang’s industries, while local electronics companies
Eng Teknologi Holdings Bhd. and  Globetronics Technology Bhd. (GTB)  may
gain from orders to supply foreign manufacturers, said Choo Swee Kee, who manages about 700 million ringgit as chief investment
officer of TA Investment Management Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur.  Property Shares  Eastern & Oriental Bhd. (EAST) , which is reclaiming up to 980
acres of land to build luxury homes in what it says is the
island’s largest seafront development, has seen its shares soar
25 percent this year. The main FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index
slid 4.5 percent during the same period.  “We have been a believer of Penang’s potential for a long
time,” said Eric Chan, deputy managing director of E&O, which
also owns the 126-year-old Eastern & Oriental Hotel in the
island’s historic Georgetown. “China is no longer cheap and
some global companies are looking to move their operations to
alternative locations like Penang.”  Lim says ethnic Malays also benefit from the state’s
economic growth. In the Malaysian state with the highest
proportion of ethnic Chinese, at 42 percent, Malay contractors
have won most of the jobs awarded by his government through the
open tenders, Lim said. The Malay community doesn’t need racial
quotas to succeed, he said.  Brain Drain  “We have proven that this is the way forward,” Lim said
in an interview in July on Penang Hill, at an event promoting
the state’s efforts to woo talent. “Malaysia has a historical
opportunity for change.”  Malaysia’s racial policies spurred a brain drain of largely
Chinese and Indian minorities, and limited foreign investment,
Philip Schellekens, a senior economist at the World Bank, said
in April. In its latest Malaysia Economic Monitor report that
month, the Washington-based lender said the migration of talent
out of Malaysia undermines the country’s aspiration to become a
high-income nation.  “Discontent with Malaysia’s inclusiveness policies is a
key factor,” the World Bank said. “Productivity and
inclusiveness lie at the heart of Malaysia’s transformation
programs. Implementing these forcefully will go a long way
towards turning the brain drain into a gain.”  Growth Impediment  The U.S. Department of State said that Malaysia’s “complex
network of preferences” to promote the acquisition of economic
assets by ethnic Malays and other indigenous groups is a
“significant impediment” to economic growth. The country’s
affirmative-action policy is unique among Southeast Asian
neighbors including  Thailand , Singapore, Indonesia and the
 Philippines .  “It clearly slows things as many competent people leave
Malaysia because of it,” said  Jim Rogers , the chairman of
Rogers Holdings who moved to neighboring Singapore from  New York 
in 2007. Malaysia should “abolish the policy and open the
economy and society to all” to boost its competitiveness among
international investors, he said in an e-mail. Proposed changes
to the policy are making the country more attractive, he said.  Malaysia’s  economy  expanded at an average pace of 9.2
percent from 1990 through 1997, compared with the 7.1 percent
for newly industrialized Asian nations as a group, International
Monetary Fund data show. By contrast, Malaysia’s 5.1 percent
average growth since 1999 is little more than the group’s 4.8
percent overall mean performance, according to the IMF.  Beating Singapore  Mahathir’s Multimedia Super Corridor, centered around an
area in Selangor state that was carved out of oil palm
plantations, offered tax breaks and relaxed rules on hiring
foreigners to entice software engineers.  While Penang lured research, development and production,
the MSC’s more notable successes were getting information-
technology support and service centers for companies including
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Deutsche Post AG’s DHL division. The
government later broadened the incentives to include companies
that weren’t physically located in the main MSC area.  To win the investment in Penang from National Instruments,
Lim had to overcome rivals from Singapore and the Philippines to
Vietnam and China.  Tax Breaks  Stuttgart, Germany-based Robert Bosch will spend 520
million euros ($720 million) on a factory in Penang that will be
one of its largest, employing 2,000 workers to make photovoltaic
solar modules. Agilent Technologies Inc. told local media in
March it was adding a life-sciences facility that undertakes
research and development. Both companies have operated in Penang
for about four decades, starting in the 1970s, when foreign
investors used the state’s cheap labor to make low-end
electronics parts.  The state can’t offer tax breaks for investors or sell
bonds, both controlled by the federal government, so it plans to
use revenue from local land levies to build more roads and a
third bridge linking the island to its mainland territories,
according to Lim, who is also secretary-general of the
opposition Democratic Action Party.  Penang, bigger only than Perlis of Malaysia’s 13 states, is
used to an underdog status.  Founded  by Captain Francis Light in
1786 after the East India Co. took over the island from the
Kedah Sultanate, Britain set it up as a trading post to break
Dutch Malacca’s monopoly of the spice trade.  Paddy Fields  Intel spent $1.6 million in 1972 to set up the company’s
first offshore chip assembly plant in the state amid paddy
fields, employing 100 batik-clad workers. Now, it also designs
semiconductor devices in the state.  Penang had 16 percent of the country’s approved foreign
manufacturing investment from 2006 to March this year,
government data show. The state, a tourist destination with
beach resorts and a colonial-era town designated as a United
Nations  World Heritage  site, made up 8.1 percent of Malaysia’s
gross domestic product in 2009, based on constant prices.  “The change in government meant that you have reenergized
this place,” said Chris Ong, who owns boutique hotels converted
from heritage buildings in Penang. “The old state government
was here for far too long.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  