-- 
Alcatel-Lucent Gets $1.5 Billion Genesys Bid From Permira

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-10-19T22:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/alcatel-receives-1-5b-binding-offer-from-permira-for-genesys.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA received a $1.5
billion binding offer for its Genesys call-center software unit
from Permira Advisers LLP, capping a three-month review of its
enterprise business.  France ’s largest telecommunications equipment supplier
expects to close a deal to sell Genesys late this year or in
early 2012. Alcatel-Lucent  said today  it will retain the rest of
its enterprise division after French labor unions said its sale
could trigger domestic job losses.  Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen is nearing the end of
a three-year turnaround plan for Alcatel-Lucent, which has
struggled to turn a profit since its creation through the 2006
merger of France’s Alcatel SA and Lucent Technologies of the
U.S. Since he joined Alcatel-Lucent in 2008 from London-based BT
Plc, Verwaayen has unloaded assets including its vacuum
technology unit and a stake in aerospace supplier Thales SA,
before beginning a review of options for its enterprise business
in July.  Alcatel-Lucent fell 7.7 percent to 1.96 euros in Paris
trading, valuing the company at about 4.6 billion euros. The
company missed sales estimates in the second quarter, sending
its shares down the most in almost three years. They have lost
more than four-fifths of their value since the end of 2006.  Political Risks  Alcatel-Lucent said today that keeping and strengthening
the enterprise business, which has significant facilities in
France, “serves Alcatel-Lucent and our customers best,” and
that it and Genesys, based in Daly City,  California , will
continue to co-operate.  Some potential bidders viewed an acquisition of the entire
unit as politically risky in the run-up to the French
presidential elections set for April 2012, a person familiar
with the situation said last week.  In July the CFDT, CFE-CGC, and CGT trade-union federations
demanded assurances from Industry Minister Eric Besson that jobs
and benefits would be preserved in the event of a sale.  In its networking business, Alcatel-Lucent is contending
with increasing competition from  China ’s Huawei Technologies Co.
and  ZTE Corp. (763) , along with traditional rivals including Ericsson
AB. At the same time, consolidation among mobile network
operators, like the 2009 merger of Deutsche Telekom AG and
 France Telecom ’s U.K. units, may reduce network spending growth
by eliminating duplication even as data consumption surges with
the spread of devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  Qatalyst Partners is advising Alcatel-Lucent on the deal,
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is working with Permira.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  