-- 
Aluminum Stocks to Gain in 4th Quarter as Deals Extend, CRU Says

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-10-19T11:10:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/aluminum-stocks-to-gain-in-4th-quarter-as-deals-extend-cru-says.html
Aluminum stockpiles monitored by the
London Metal Exchange are expected to gain in the fourth quarter
as the so-called financing deals are extended, researcher CRU
said.  Premiums paid for aluminum in  North America  and Europe may
decline slightly in the coming months because of weaker demand,
while staying at elevated levels because financing deals limit
supply of the physical metal, according to CRU. Premiums in
North America rose to a record in May after warehouse incentives
and transportation costs climbed.  “I would expect in the fourth quarter we will see more
inflows into the LME warehouses,” London-based CRU analyst
Marco Georgiou said by phone yesterday. “We don’t see much
metal coming out of the warehouses, which is usually a
reasonable sign it’s in safe hands. At the moment I see the
larger banks continuing this activity for the foreseeable
future.”  Aluminum inventories, little changed since Sept. 30, have
gained 6.9 percent this year after surging more than fourfold in
three years through 2010 as low borrowing costs made financing
deals more attractive. They declined 7.6 percent last year. As
much as 85 percent of the aluminum stockpiles are locked in the
so-called financing deals and unavailable to the market,
according to United Co. Rusal, the world’s biggest producer.  The Midwest premium fell to about 8.1 cents a pound from
between 9 and 9.5 cents a pound in May, and will likely stay at
about 8 cents a pound, “supported by the warehousing activity
in the region,” Georgiou said. The premiums are added to the
price of aluminum for immediate delivery on the London Metal
Exchange.  Premiums in  Europe , which stayed “flat” over the past
three months at $125 to $130 a metric ton, duty unpaid, will
likely stay in the range of $120 to $125 a ton in the fourth
quarter, according to CRU.  European Demand  “It really depends how demand will shape up in the fourth
quarter in Europe,” Georgiou said. “We are expecting weaker
demand, and weaker demand normally implies lower premiums. But
warehousing deals continue, and that still lends support to the
premium level.”  Canceled warrants, or orders to draw the metal from the LME
stockpiles will probably decrease in the fourth quarter as
demand weakens, particularly in Europe, Georgiou said.  Stockpiles in  Detroit , which holds 58 percent of U.S.
inventory, are up 25 percent this year. They increased by 21,200
tons to 1.18 million tons yesterday. The U.S. accounts for about
45 percent of global stockpiles monitored by the LME.  Stockpiles  Aluminum stockpiles in Europe, where 36 percent of the
global inventory is located, are up 51 percent this year on an
11-fold increase in the Dutch city of Vlissingen, the second-
biggest repository tracked by the LME and owned by Glencore
International Plc.  A financing transaction involves a simultaneous purchase of
metal for nearby delivery and a forward sale to take advantage
of a market in contango, when contracts with later delivery
dates trade at higher prices than nearer-dated metal. Financing
costs and expenses for storing metal influence profits on the
transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  