-- 
Lamborghini to Drive Alongside Rickshaws in India

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 
2011-10-19T23:21:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/lamborghini-snares-millionaires-in-india.html
Lamborghini SpA sees opportunity in
the streets of  Mumbai , where three-wheeled rickshaws zigzag
through bumper-to-bumper traffic on pot-hole-infested roads.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s supercar maker plans to open its second
dealership in  India  this year to meet increased demand for cars
including the 36.9-million rupee ($750,600) Aventador, said
Mohan Mariwala, managing director of Lamborghini Mumbai. Ferrari
SpA, which opened its first dealership in the country in May,
says it plans to open four more by the end of next year.  The surging number of millionaires, projected to more than
double in India by 2015, is prompting supercar makers to expand
in a country where the  World Bank  estimates more than 75 percent
of people live on less than $2 a day. The demand for top-end
models is a contrast to overall car deliveries, which have
declined three straight months on higher borrowing costs.  “The wealth at the top of the pyramid is growing at a much
faster pace,” said  Deepesh Rathore , the New Delhi-based
managing director in India for IHS Automotive. “Every month
there is a new segment of buyers for these cars. People don’t
take out loans to buy a Lamborghini.”  The number of millionaires in India will increase to
403,000 by 2015 from 173,000 in 2010,  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  and
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets said in a report in August. The
growing wealth is expected to drive demand for exotic cars --
including Lamborghini,  Aston Martin  and Bentley -- to about 500
a year by 2020, from 180 last year, IHS estimates.  A.T. Kearney estimates the Indian luxury-car market will
grow 32 percent a year over the next five years from $745
million in 2009.  Supercar Club  Customers include members of the Super Car Club, who
regularly meet and drive to Pune via a 100-kilometer (62 miles)
expressway with their Lamborghini Gallardos, Porsche 911s and
Ferrari 458 Italias. Membership in the club has grown 10-fold to
about 200 since it was formed two years ago, according to
founder Gautam Singhania.  “The roads in Mumbai are pathetic so we have to make do
with what we have,” said Singhania, who is chairman of  Raymond
Ltd. (RW) , a Mumbai-based textile and tooling company. “We cruise
around the city and hang out.”  Lamborghini will likely sell 30 cars in India next year,
Mariwala said. To cater to the local market, the company fits
all vehicles in India with a so-called “lifting system” to
raise the suspension on bad roads, he said. The cars can also
run on regular gasoline instead of high-octane fuel, he said.  ‘Aspirational Segment’  Aston Martin has met 24 of its 30-car sales target for the
year, since opening its Mumbai showroom in April, according to
Lalit Choudary, director of the dealership. The sales included
the 21.5-million rupee Rapide sedan and 14.5-million rupee V8
Vantage.  “There’s obviously the wealth and the buyers out there,”
Choudary said in a telephone interview. “It’s an aspirational
segment and there’ll always be adequate demand given that it’s a
segment that is just opening up.”  With mainstream cars, sales are slowing after the  Reserve
Bank  of India raised  interest rates  12 times since mid-March
2010 to rein in inflation, sapping consumer demand in a country
where about 80 percent of purchases are funded by loans.  Industrywide car sales fell 1.8 percent to 165,925 in
September, the third-straight month that deliveries have
dropped, according to the  Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers . The industry group, which has cut its annual
growth forecast twice this year, estimates growth of as low as 2
percent in the year ending March 31, 2012. Sales of  Tata Motors
Ltd. (TTMT) ’s $2,800 Nano, the world’s cheapest car, have plunged 21
percent this year, industry data showed.  Sprouting Dealerships  The outlook for Ferrari may be brighter as the sports-car
maker begins to offer its full range of cars including the
California model from 22.7 million rupees and the 34.2 million
rupee four-seat FF, according to Ashish Chordia, chairman of
dealer Shreyans Group.  Maserati will open dealerships in Mumbai and  New Delhi  by
March, according to Anubhav Sharma, a spokesman for Shreyans,
which also owns the dealership rights to the brand in India.  “A car is the biggest status symbol you can have,” said
Neelesh Hundekari, the principal and head of  A.T. Kearney ’s
luxury and lifestyle practice in India. “Indians are seeking
status, and having been deprived so long, there is a lot of
pent-up demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 