-- 
American Express, Amylin, EBay, Wynn: U.S. Equity Preview

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-10-20T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/american-express-amylin-ebay-wynn-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses.  American Express Co. (AXP)  : The biggest credit-card
issuer by purchases declined even after it said third-quarter
profit climbed 13 percent, beating the average analyst
projection, as customer spending increased and fewer borrowers
defaulted.  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN US): The San Diego-based
drugmaker had a third-quarter loss of 9 cents a share. Analysts
projected a loss of 14 cents a share, on average, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CBST)  : The Lexington,
Massachusetts-based company that develops drugs to treat
infections posted third-quarter earnings and sales that exceeded
the average analyst projection and raised its annual revenue
forecast.  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  : The largest online marketplace
forecast fourth-quarter sales and profit that missed some
analysts’ estimates as it spends more on marketing products to
woo developers and strengthen its payment services.  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  : The company
whose parent is buying El Paso Corp. said third-quarter profit
fell and missed estimates on costs related to an acquisition in
July.  SLM Corp. (SLM)  : The student-loan maker known as Sallie
Mae posted third-quarter results that exceeded analyst estimates
after it increased loan originations and delinquency rates fell.  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  : The Kalamazoo, Michigan-based maker
of artificial hips and knees fell even after it boosted its 2011
earnings-per-share forecast after posting third-quarter profit
that exceeded the average analyst projection.  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  : The operator of the Wynn and
Encore casinos reported third-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates as a recovery in Las Vegas slowed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 