-- 
America’s Bills About to Exceed Its Paycheck: Chart of the Day

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-10-19T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/america-s-bills-about-to-exceed-its-paycheck-chart-of-the-day.html
America’s bills are about to exceed
its paycheck.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows  U.S. government debt  divided
among every man, woman and child will exceed per-capita gross
domestic product this year for the first time in International
Monetary Fund records dating back to 1980.  The amount owed will reach $46,771 per person, surpassing
the $46,750 in output, according to Bloomberg calculations using
the IMF’s deficit and growth projections from its September
World Economic Outlook. Debt will exceed production by $8,000
per person by 2016, reversing GDP’s $18,400 advantage as
recently as 2007, before the world’s largest economy fell into
the recession and government spending surged.  “It’s a milestone in an unsustainable trend,” said  Robert Bixby , executive director of the Concord Coalition, an
Arlington, Virginia-based group that calls for a balanced
budget. “What’s alarming is there is no end in sight.”  The U.S. government last week posted its third consecutive
annual  budget deficit  in excess of $1 trillion for the fiscal
year ended Sept. 30. A congressional committee has been tasked
with finding $1.5 trillion in savings over the next decade under
the terms of an August agreement to raise the federal debt
ceiling.  “It just doesn’t seem like the political system or the
public really has come to the point where they are ready to make
some basic compromises,” Bixby said. “People lament the debt,
but so far we have no realistic strategies for dealing with
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 