-- 
AmEx Profit Rises on Record Card Spending

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-10-20T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/american-express-profit-climbs-13-on-credit-card-spending-fewer-defaults.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
credit-card issuer by purchases, posted a third-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ estimates as customer spending climbed and
fewer borrowers defaulted.  Net income advanced 13 percent to $1.24 billion, or $1.03 a
share, from $1.09 billion, or 90 cents, a year earlier, the New
York-based lender said yesterday in a statement. The average
estimate of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for earnings
per share of 96 cents.  “Cardmember spending was strong during the period, growing
16 percent to record levels and again outpacing most of the
major bank card issuers,” Chief Executive Officer Kenneth I. Chenault, 60, said in the statement. “Credit quality continued
to be excellent.”  Chenault is expanding AmEx’s reach beyond its affluent
credit-card clients with a new payment system for smartphones
and computers as it vies for customers who prefer debit cards,
the most-used U.S. payment method. The electronic wallet, called
Serve, may draw more transactions to AmEx’s network, the world’s
fourth-biggest. In June, the company introduced a no-fee prepaid
card that also targets a broader client base.  Michael Taiano , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill in  New York ,
said AmEx beat estimates, in part, by releasing $448 million in
reserves that previously were set aside to cover future losses.  ‘Decent Quarter’  “It’s a decent quarter; I think there are things for both
the bulls and the bears to latch on to,” Taiano said in a phone
interview. “They hit the revenue number pretty much right on
the head, but the beat on the EPS was a little lower quality
because you had a 6-cent tax benefit and a reserve release that
also helped earnings.”  American Express fell 55 cents to close at $46.13 in New
York and slid 0.7 percent at 6:38 p.m. in extended trading. The
shares have advanced 7.5 percent this year.  The lender repurchased $750 million of its shares in the
second quarter and $1.2 billion in the third quarter, Chief
Financial Officer Daniel Henry said yesterday in a conference
call with analysts. The  Federal Reserve  earlier this year
allowed the company to buy back up to $2.3 billion of stock in
2011, leaving room for $350 million of additional repurchases in
the fourth quarter, he said.  Write-offs for loans AmEx deemed uncollectible fell to 2.6
percent in the third quarter, from 5.1 percent last year, the
company said in a financial supplement. Loans at least 30 days
overdue, a signal of future defaults, fell to 1.5 percent from
2.5 percent.  Card Income  U.S. card income rose 23 percent year-over-year to $733
million, according to the statement. International card income
climbed 53 percent to $221 million.  Worldwide card spending, or billed business, rose 16
percent to $207.7 billion, the company said. Individuals spent
an average of $3,739, an increase of 12 percent from a year
earlier, when AmEx had fewer cards outstanding.  “Given these strong growth rates, we expect to gain share
again this quarter in the U.S.,” Henry said during the
conference call.  Net revenue advanced 8.6 percent to $7.57 billion,
according to the statement. Funds set aside to cover future loan
losses fell 33 percent to $249 million.  Expenses climbed 13 percent to $5.6 billion as AmEx boosted
investments in rewards programs and other initiatives, the
company said.  “The growth in operating expenses moderated this quarter,
as planned, and we expect to further slow that growth toward the
end of this year and into next,” Chenault said.  AmEx handled 3.91 percent of 120.4 billion purchase
transactions worldwide last year as it was supplanted as the
third-biggest network by Shanghai-based China UnionPay Co.,
which boosted its market share to 4.03 percent, according to the
Nilson Report, an industry newsletter. San Francisco-based  Visa
Inc. (V)  had 66.01 percent of the market, compared with 25.18
percent for  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , based in Purchase, New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  