-- 
AMR Posts $162 Million Loss on Fuel as Cost Squeeze Persists

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-10-19T20:40:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/amr-posts-162-million-quarterly-loss-as-jet-fuel-costs-rise-1-.html
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR) ,
stung by bankruptcy speculation and the U.S. industry’s longest
profit drought, reported a third-quarter loss of $162 million as
jet-fuel prices soared.  Costs to fly each seat a mile, the company’s “immediate
top priority,” will rise as much as 6.6 percent this quarter
excluding spending on fuel and any new labor accords,  Fort
Worth , Texas-based AMR said today. It didn’t outline any fresh
steps to trim spending.  A $4.8 billion cash balance “calms any immediate
bankruptcy concerns,”  Michael Derchin , a CRT Capital Group LLC
analyst in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in an interview. “But it
certainly doesn’t alleviate the longer-term issues of the
company needing to get its act together on both the cost and
revenue side.”  The shares plunged 33 percent on Oct. 3 on concern that the
owner of the third-largest U.S. airline could be forced into
bankruptcy unless it can cut costs with new union contracts.
AMR’s labor expenses as a percentage of sales are the highest
among U.S. carriers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s cash and short-term investment total as of
Sept. 30 slipped from $5 billion a year earlier. The total at
the end of June was about $5.6 billion.  Quarterly Results  Last quarter’s loss of 48 cents a share compared with net
income a year earlier of $143 million, or 39 cents, AMR said.
That was wider than an average estimate of 43 cents among 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  AMR fell 7.4 percent, the most in two weeks, to $2.61 at
4:01 p.m. in  New York  trading, as other airlines also declined.
The shares have tumbled 66 percent this year, the most among the
10 carriers in the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index. Derchin
recommends holding the stock.  Today’s loss was the 14th in the past 16 quarters for AMR,
which has registered annual losses since 2008. AMR is the first
major U.S. airline company to report results for the quarter and
the only one expected by analysts to have a loss.  “Achieving a competitive cost structure is the one area
where, despite a lot of hard work, we have not completed the
job,” Chief Executive Officer Gerard Arpey said in a message to
employees today. “Whether we like it or not, there is simply no
path to long-term success without competitive costs in every
aspect of our business, including our labor costs.”  Sales, Fuel  Sales rose 9.1 percent to $6.38 billion. The results
included costs of about $50 million, or 15 cents a share, from
foreign exchange rates as the dollar strengthened and contracts
relating to fuel purchases, AMR said.  Spending on fuel rose 40 percent to $2.26 billion, AMR’s
biggest expense, as the average price paid per gallon climbed 41
percent from a year earlier, according to the company. Those
costs damped gains from higher ticket prices that boosted the
yield, or the average fare per mile flown, by 7 percent for
American’s main jet operations.  Long-term debt, including capital leases, airport bonds and
aircraft operating leases as of Sept. 30, was $16.9 billion, AMR
said. That compared with $16.2 billion a year earlier.  Bargaining is set to resume today between American and the
 Allied Pilots Association , which represents pilots who fly the
carrier’s mainline jets. The two sides took a break yesterday
after making what American said was “significant progress” in
discussions from Oct. 11 through Oct. 17. Jeff Brundage,
American’s senior vice president for human resources, declined
today to set a time frame for reaching an accord.  Analyst’s View  “We increasingly believe that a tentative agreement
between AMR and its pilots may be reached in coming days, and we
remain steadfast in our view that near-term Chapter 11 rhetoric
is significantly overstated,”  Jamie Baker , a JPMorgan Chase &
Co. analyst in New York, said in a report today. He rates AMR as
neutral.  Negotiations were stepped up last week after American
sought waivers to help cover crew shortages caused by pilot
retirements.  Staffing was “critically short” as retirements ran at 10
times the normal average in September and this month, American
said last week. The airline is paring seating capacity 3 percent
this quarter and shutting a San Francisco crew base in response
to the shortage, high fuel prices and a weak economy. It also
plans to retire as many as 11 jets in 2012.  Eagle Divestiture  American’s cost-saving steps also include the planned
spinoff of the American Eagle regional unit. AMR said today
Eagle had reached an agreement in principle with the  Air Line
Pilots Association  in preparation for the divestiture.  AMR hasn’t set a date or an exchange ratio for the spinoff
of Eagle, which provides more than 90 percent of passenger feed
from smaller cities to American’s hubs.  The tentative agreement on an eight-year pilot contract at
Eagle would help trim costs so the regional unit can compete to
fly for American and other carriers, AMR said today. The accord
also would set new terms for the flying that Eagle initially
will provide to American.  Negotiators are still completing language in the contract
proposal before it goes to union leaders and then rank-and-file
pilots for ratification, said Dave Ryter, vice chairman of
ALPA’s master executive council at Eagle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  