-- 
Hanwha Asset Favors Kepco as Yield Premium Reaches 16-Month High

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-10-19T01:30:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/hanwha-asset-favors-kepco-as-yield-premium-reaches-16-month-high.html
Hanwha Asset Management favors debt
in Korea Electric Power Corp. after the utility’s yields rose to
a 16-month high over government debt and  South Korea ’s state-run
companies took steps to improve their finances.  The extra yield investors demand to hold five-year notes of
Kepco reached 44 basis points on Oct. 17, the most since June
2010 and 23 basis points more than this year’s low, according to
Koscom Corp., which provides financial data from Korea Exchange
Inc. Kepco is rated A1 by Moody’s Investors Service, the fifth
highest rank.  “We plan to remain overweight in bonds issued by state-
controlled companies and banks until at least year-end on
expectation the widened spread will remain steady and not
widen,” Oh Hyeon Se, head of fixed-income department at Hanwha
Asset that oversees 22.4 trillion won ($19.6 billion) of assets,
said in an interview on Oct. 17 at his Seoul office. “Yields of
these bonds are attractive compared with their relatively low
risks.”  The government has ordered state-run companies to reduce
debt and strengthen their finances, according to Oh. Korea Land
& Housing Corp. announced restructuring plans in December that
included cutting staff and wage costs, according to a Ministry
of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs statement.  Hanwha likes debts issued by state-controlled firms such as
 Korea Electric Power Corp. (015760) , Korea Finance Corp. and Korea Land &
Housing Corp, said Oh, who declined to disclose details of his
investments. He remains “cautious” in investing in bonds
issued by companies run by regional governments with weaker
finances.  He also likes debt of banks because of their limited
exposure to  Europe . The yield difference between South Korea’s
five-year bank debt rated AAA and sovereign debt of similar
maturity widened to 48 basis points, the most in a year, Koscom
data show. South Korea’s benchmark five-year bond yields are 92
basis points lower than this year’s high reached in February,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hanwha merged with Prudential Asset Management last month
to become South Korea’s fifth largest asset manager.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  