-- 
Tanzania Follows Kenya Move to Help Currency, Ecobank Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-10-19T13:59:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/tanzania-follows-kenya-move-to-help-currency-ecobank-says-1-.html
Tanzania’s central bank followed
neighboring Kenya by introducing measures that include limiting
the amount of foreign currency lenders can buy in an attempt to
curb the shilling’s drop, according to Ecobank Ltd.  The Bank of Tanzania informed commercial lenders yesterday
that their net open-position limit will be lowered to 10 percent
from 20 percent in a week’s time, Eric Mushi, Ecobank Tanzania’s
country treasurer, said by phone from  Dar es Salaam  today.
Minimum reserves will be raised to 30 percent from 20 percent,
he said. The central bank may issue a statement later, Joseph
Masawe, director of economic research and policy at the
regulator, said by phone.  “As an immediate impact we could see the shilling
appreciate because of the mop-up of excess liquidity,” Mushi
said. “Inflation could also ease in the medium term, because of
absorbing currency from circulation.”  Tanzania’s shilling has slipped 8.8 percent against the
dollar in the last three months and reached a record-low 1,722.5
today. The worst regional drought in 60 years boosted prices,
driving the inflation rate to 16.8 percent in September from
14.1 percent in the month before. Central banks in  Kenya  and
Uganda have also moved to protect their currencies, which are
the world’s worst performers against the dollar this year and
are trading near the weakest since at least 1993.  Borrowing Costs Surge  Kenya’s shilling has weakened 9.9 percent against the
dollar in the same period, helping push consumer prices rises to
17.3 percent, while the Ugandan currency depreciated 9.2 percent
in that time, raising inflation to an 18-month high last month.
Both central banks increased their benchmark  interest rates  by
400 basis points to record levels at their most recent policy
meetings to help stem the currencies decline and cut price
growth.  Soaring inflation has forced borrowing costs in the East
African countries to record highs. Kenyan three-month bill
yields were 14.997 percent last week, their highest in a decade,
while  Uganda  last week sold three-year bonds at yield of 23.8
percent, the strongest on record.  Uganda’s central bank will take “appropriate” steps to
support the shilling, though it hasn’t decided on whether to
follow neighboring Kenya in limiting the foreign exchange
exposure of commercial banks, Elliot Mwebya, spokesman for the
bank, told reporters in the capital, Kampala, today.  Kenya’s government on Oct. 13 lowered foreign-exchange
exposure limits for commercial banks to 10 percent of core
capital from 20 percent.  The Bank of Tanzania raised its repurchase rate to 9.58
percent from 7.58 percent, Mushi said. Commercial banks were
also told they must immediately stop lending local currency to
non-resident borrowers or offshore investors, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  