-- 
AOL’s Revamped Radio Service Cuts Advertising by Half to Challenge Pandora

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-10-19T20:34:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/aol-revamps-radio-service-with-half-as-many-ads-to-rival-pandora.html
AOL Inc. (AOL) ’s online radio service is
restarting today with half the number of audio commercials as it
ran before, challenging Pandora Media Inc. for listeners.  The company will insert about 3 minutes of audio ads an
hour, Lisa Namerow, general manager of AOL Music and AOL Radio
in Dulles,  Virginia , said in an interview. Pandora airs three
15-second commercials an hour, Chief Financial Officer Steve Cakebread said at a Sept. 22 investor conference.  AOL Radio, which uses music and advertising from San Diego-
based Slacker Inc., joins online services including Oakland,
California-based Pandora that rely on display ads and videos to
maintain the number of audio spots played between songs. Clear
Channel’s iHeart Radio and Rdio Inc. are offering free music
services for a limited time.  “The most common complaint we would get from users was the
number of audio commercials we ran,” Namerow said. “It’s
something they really hated.”  AOL lost 1.9 percent to $14.08 today in New York trading.
The shares have dropped 41 percent this year.  The new features, reduction in ads and redesigned music
navigation are aimed at reversing a 25 percent drop in AOL Radio
users from a year ago, Namerow said. The service averages about
3 million users a month, she said.  AOL Radio, which carries ESPN Radio and ABC News stations,
has 230 music channels customized by a team of program
directors, while competitors rely on computer algorithms,
Namerow said.  “That’s our secret sauce,” Namerow said. “We program our
stations individually, while larger competitors might use more
of a formula.”  A free AOL Radio application for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone will
become available in about a week, Namerow said. An app for
devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software is expected to
become available later this year.  In November, AOL will offer a $3.99-a-month radio plus
service that excludes audio advertisements, Namerow said. A
separate $9.99 plan will compete with Spotify Ltd. by offering
ad-free on-demand music and the ability to listen to saved songs
without an Internet connection, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  