-- 
Apartment Prices in Best London Areas to Increase in 2012, Jones Lang Says

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-10-19T10:54:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/apartment-prices-in-best-london-areas-to-rise-in-2012-jll-says.html
Apartment prices in  London ’s
priciest neighborhoods will rise next year as investors seek
less risky assets amid political and financial instability,
according to a survey by broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   About 84 percent of developers said values will increase
in 2012, Chicago-based Jones Lang said in a statement today.
More than a quarter said the gain would exceed 5 percent, while
37 percent predicted a 2 percent to 5 percent increase. Just 5
percent expected a decline.  “Strong appetite from overseas buyers is clearly key,”
Neil Chegwidden, residential research director, said by e-mail.
“The international dimension has also led to core central
London locations outperforming the rest of the U.K. market and
we expect this to continue next year.”  Foreign investors are buying London homes to protect their
wealth amid economic and political volatility at home. They
made up about 65 percent of the market for homes costing more
than 5 million pounds ($7.9 million), according to a survey
published last week by broker  Savills Plc. (SVS)   Sales of the city’s most expensive homes reached a record
in the nine months through September, Savills said last week.
Deals for homes valued at more than 5 million pounds rose to
3.2 billion pounds from 2.1 billion pounds a year earlier.  Prices in the areas covered in the Jones Lang report
increased 3.8 percent in the 12 months to September. The survey
covered properties with a value of 700 pounds per square foot
to 2,000 pounds located in Kensington and Chelsea, Westminster,
the  City of London  and  Canary Wharf . Jones Lang surveyed 60
companies in the final two weeks of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 