-- 
Apple’s IOS 5 More Catch-Up Than Forge-Ahead: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-10-19T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/apple-s-ios-5-more-catch-up-than-forge-ahead-rich-jaroslovsky.html
As impressive as it was for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  to sell four million new iPhones last week, millions more
users will be affected by another release: iOS 5, the latest
version of the operating system that runs every iPhone, iPad and
iPod touch.  I’ve been testing the software and a lot of its claimed 200
new features for a couple of weeks and find it generally
impressive. But unlike the iPhone 4S, with its breakthrough Siri
voice-based personal assistant, iOS 5 feels more catch-up than
forge-ahead.  Many of the new features -- secure texting, tabbed Web
browsing, pull-down notifications -- may already be familiar to
users of devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone 7 and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s
BlackBerry. As usual, Apple’s contribution is to polish the
concepts, making them seamless and painless.  That doesn’t necessarily extend to setting up iOS 5, which
wasn’t as smooth as it should have been. When I updated my iPad
2, my Mac continued to display a “Restoring iPad apps” message
long after the iPad itself was telling me that everything had
already been installed.  At the end of the process, I was presented on my Mac with
an obscure, Windows-worthy error message. The new software
finally appeared on the iPad, more than an hour from when I
started. After that, things got a lot better.  Demoting the Computer  The importance of iOS 5 is the way it reduces the personal
computer’s role as hub for all your digital devices, the vital
middleman for transferring and synchronizing information. Now,
it’s just one more spoke on the wheel, while the hub becomes iOS
5’s new iCloud feature.  ICloud automatically stores your content and data on
Apple’s remote servers, where they are accessible by all your
enrolled devices. Take pictures with your iPhone and a new
feature called Photo Stream will automatically push them up to
the cloud, then down to your iPad, where they will pop up almost
immediately. Documents, apps, media and contacts work the same
way.  The iCloud service is free and replaces Apple’s paid,
problematic  MobileMe . You get five gigabytes of online storage
free, and can buy more; photos as well as content purchased from
Apple’s iTunes Store and  App Store  don’t count against your
storage limit.  Liberating  In my testing, iCloud generally performed well, and it was
liberating to be cut loose from the computer. When I took a
photo I liked, I no longer had to e-mail it to myself or rush
back to sync devices and ensure that I had a fail-safe copy.  About the only downer was the difficulty I had migrating my
existing MobileMe account to iCloud; even days after the launch
of iOS 5, I continued to run into a “please try again later”
message, blaming the volume of requests. I didn’t think MobileMe
was that popular.  Among the other new features of iOS 5, a couple stand out.
One is iMessage, which allows you to directly text other iOS 5
users. For those using an iPhone, the service is fully
integrated with the device’s existing text app. And iMessages
don’t count against any message limits in your wireless-phone
plan. In addition, iPad and iPod touch users also can use those
devices to text iPhones and each other.  Integrated Tweeting  Then there’s the Notification Center: Swipe your finger
down from the top of any screen, and a windowshade-like overlay
displays your alerts and reminders. And  Twitter  users will
appreciate the ability to tweet directly from within Safari as
well as the camera, photo, YouTube and map apps.  One thing I couldn’t try was iTunes Match, which the
company says will launch later this month. For $25 a year, Apple
will scan your entire music library, looking for tunes you might
have ripped yourself from a CD or downloaded from some source
other than iTunes. If Apple has the same song, you’ll get access
to it on all your devices via iCloud; if not, it will upload
your copy of the tune and give you full access to it.  Though it isn’t being billed this way, the service is
essentially offering absolution -- at a nominal cost -- to
people who have illegally downloaded music. And they’ll get
access to Apple’s high-quality versions even if their originals
were of lower quality. It’s a way to gain a benefit and assuage
a guilty conscience at the same time.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 