-- 
Marijuana Dealers Join Union, Seeking Retirement Benefits, Clout

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-10-19T17:53:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/marijuana-dealers-join-union-seeking-retirement-benefits-clout.html
Medical-marijuana dealers in two
states seeking legitimacy for their industry have voted to join
a union, offering prospects for private-sector expansion to the
stagnating U.S. labor movement.  Colorado ’s legal-marijuana sellers, representing 8,000
people, approached the United Food and Commercial Workers and
held an election in September. The labor union, which
traditionally bargains with grocery and meat-packing companies,
created a Medical Cannabis and Hemp Workers division two months
ago that has 2,000 members in Colorado and  California .  “It’s a different paradigm than the traditional labor-
management concerns,” Mark Belkin, the union’s Colorado
organizing director, said in an interview today. “It’s a more
collaborative relationship.”  Legal-marijuana employers “want to become a top-notch
industry, and be recognized as so,” Ken Correia, owner of
 Solace Meds  in  Fort Collins , Colorado and a union member, said
in an interview. “We want to be able to offer benefits. We want
to be able to offer retirement funds.”  Sixteen states and the  District of Columbia  have legalized
the medical use of marijuana. The U.S.  Justice Department  has
warned that marijuana dispensaries and licensed growers could
face prosecution for violating federal drug and money-laundering
laws.  Customers in Colorado, which legalized medical marijuana in
2000, must have a prescription and a state license to buy
marijuana.  Starting a Dialogue  Correia said dispensaries are eager for organizational
experience and political support. The union “can help us get to
another level faster than we could on our own,” he said. “We
need some help to organize so we can get further in  Washington ,
and possibly start a dialogue.”  Marijuana use to ease pain related to ailments such as
cancer, AIDS, glaucoma and multiple sclerosis is a $1.7 billion
market, and may increase to the level of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s erectile-
dysfunction drug Viagra, according to a March report produced by
See Change Strategy LLC of Washington, a financial analysis
company. Pfizer reported $1.93 billion in sales for Viagra last
year.  The study received financing from the American Cannabis
Research Institute, which advocates medical marijuana use, and
DealFlow Media Inc., which researches alternative-asset markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  