-- 
Harrisburg, Paris of my Youth, Hits the Skids: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-10-19T00:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/harrisburg-beautiful-paris-of-my-youth-hits-the-skids-margaret-carlson.html
What a jolt. The city council of
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , my hometown, voted last week to file
for bankruptcy. The state may prohibit the move, opting to force
the city into receivership instead. Either way, it’s quite a
comedown; Harrisburg has joined the list of casualties of fiscal
crisis and economic transformation.  When you are young, a place doesn’t have to be Paris to be
grand. Yet even correcting for nostalgia, Pennsylvania’s state
 Capitol , with its dome modeled on St. Peter’s Basilica, was
majestic. Harrisburg combined the power of a government seat
with the comforts of a small town -- an important asset to my
parents, who needed a village to help care for my older brother,
who had suffered severe  brain damage  in an epileptic seizure at
birth.  You could lead a rich life in Harrisburg without being
rich. It cost little to rent a boat on the Susquehanna River,
where I learned to water ski, or go to  Hershey Park  --
Disneyland plus all the chocolate you could eat -- just 20
minutes away. The annual Farm Show, billed as the largest indoor
agricultural event in the U.S., was an extravaganza of milking
cows, shearing sheep, picking “Best Doe in Show,” and stuffing
down funnel cakes and fried mozzarella. Parking cost $1.  Who needed a country club with so many parks where
swimming, tennis and golf were all free? To visit the elegantly
landscaped Italian Lake Park after Mass at St. Patrick’s
Cathedral felt like going to  Europe  -- at least to a 9-year-old.
Graduating from my small suburban parish school and heading to
Bishop McDevitt High School, with its Gothic towers perched on a
hill above the city, seemed like going to Harvard. The governor
would drop in at assembly once a year to teach us how a bill
becomes law.  Nuns Leveled All  The children of doctors, lawyers and bankers attended
McDevitt alongside those of steelworkers and police officers;
the nuns leveled all. If you had a soul to be saved, you also
had a brain to be honed. They taught as if each of us, with a
little prodding, might win a  Nobel Prize . (We might have, too,
if Nobels were given for conjugating Latin verbs.) Conspicuous
consumption was so rare that when a development of McMansions
went up on the city outskirts, the kid who moved there was
forever known as Bob With a Pool in His Yard.  Politicians roamed freely. I was having pizza and a cherry
Coke with friends across from the statehouse when I first wanted
to find out what a group of lawmakers huddled in a leather booth
in the back was up to. The scene propelled me toward journalism
as surely as if my folks had had Walter Lippmann to cocktails
every Saturday night.  All it took to tarnish this civic gem was
deindustrialization and a couple of decades of reckless
borrowing from banks in the business of loading up
municipalities with debt. The proximate cause of the latest
crisis was the city’s inability to service about $300 million in
debt on an incinerator that was supposed to raise cash, not burn
it. That followed $143 million in debt amassed by a free-
spending former mayor, Stephen Reed. In his 28 years in office,
Reed revitalized the city center, but didn’t know when to stop.
The city’s pension costs were rising, housing prices were
falling, and its aging population was smaller than it had been
in 1900.  As a symbol of spending run amok, look no further than
Harrisburg’s  Wild West Museum . There is nothing wild, nor west,
about central Pennsylvania, but Reed bet that he could
revitalize downtown by building a critical mass of theater,
museums and art. More than $8 million was spent before cooler
heads prevailed. In May, Mayor  Linda Thompson , Reed’s successor,
began selling the stagecoach wheels and pistols at 20 cents on
the dollar.  Weedy Lawns  I got a close look at Harrisburg’s decline this past spring
as I closed up the family home and moved my older brother into
supervised living. I had to let our four-bedroom, three-bath
house with a two-car garage go for $139,000. With so many other
properties on the market, “For Sale” signs rusting in their
weedy lawns, I was lucky to sell it at all.  At our moving sale, people weren’t browsing for
collectibles or antiques the way they do in prosperous
 Washington . They were looking to pick up necessities like pots,
dishes and beds. When I went to the library to use the Wi-Fi,
there were lots of men there doing the same. Those in jackets
and ties I assumed to be the newly unemployed; the ones in
exercise suits, slumping in their chairs, seemed to have been at
it a bit longer.  Unemployment, at  7.7 percent , is lower in Harrisburg than
in many places. But you see 50-year-olds flipping hamburgers
alongside teenagers. In this, Harrisburg has become like so many
other American places. Occupy  Wall Street  occupied Harrisburg
last weekend. But the good jobs are gone, and the city is
unlikely to escape its desperate straits anytime soon. It’s a
little late for protests.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 