-- 
Maryland’s Howard County Plans $194 Million Tax-Exempt Offering

-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 
2011-10-19T21:09:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/maryland-s-howard-county-plans-194-million-tax-exempt-offering.html
Maryland ’s Howard County, the third-
richest in the U.S. by median  household income , plans to sell
about $194 million of general-obligation bonds next week through
competitive bids.  The sale would be the county’s second this year, after a
$160 million issue in February, the month it typically sells,
Nicole Hogue, a fiscal manager in Howard’s Finance Department,
said from Ellicott City.  The municipality of about 287,000 residents is selling
again in part to help pay for its purchase of a building in
Columbia, Maryland, she said. Howard had a median household
income of about $101,000 in the 2005-to-2009 period, trailing
only the counties of Loudoun and Fairfax in  Virginia , according
to the Census Bureau.  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard and Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings all give the bonds their top credit  ratings , marking the
county’s 14th straight year with the highest grade, according to
the Howard  website .  “Historically strong financial management” and a “stable
and wealthy economic base” drove the rating, Fitch said in a
statement.  “Howard County’s bonds will be very well received because
they have great credit,” said Linda Ginty, a senior managing
consultant at Public Financial Management Inc. who is the
financial adviser for Howard County.  ‘Still Volatile’  “The market is great right now. Rates are low, though it
is still volatile,” she said from Ellicott City.  Yields on AAA rated 10-year municipal bonds have declined
15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, this week to 2.42
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Rates have
dropped for four straight days, the longest slide in five weeks.  About half of the proceeds from the county’s bond sales
usually go toward schools, Hogue said. For this issuance, 17
percent will be allocated for education, she said. The county
provides all local government services and has no incorporated
municipalities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  