-- 
Asahi, Nippon Electric, Schott to Pay $178 Million EU Fine

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-10-19T13:46:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/asahi-nippon-electric-and-schott-pay-178-million-in-eu-probe.html
Asahi Glass  Co., Nippon Electric
Glass Co. and Schott AG agreed to pay 128.7 million euros ($178
million) in fines to end a European Union probe into price-
fixing of glass used for television and computer screens.  Asahi was fined 45.1 million euros, Nippon Electric Glass
will pay 43.2 million euros and Schott will pay 40.4 million
euros for colluding with Samsung Corning Precision Glass to fix
prices for bulb glass used in cathode-ray tubes for TV screens
from 1999 to 2004, the European Commission said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Samsung Corning, a joint venture between Samsung
Electronics Co. Ltd. and  Corning Inc. (GLW) , wasn’t fined because it
was the first company to tell regulators about the cartel. The
EU said it reduced fines for the other companies because they
cooperated and agreed to settle the charges.  The fines follow record antitrust penalties in the glass
industry. Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA was fined 896 million euros in
2008 over claims it fixed the price of car windows along with
other companies. In 2007, Saint-Gobain, plus a Nippon Sheet
Glass Co. unit and two competitors were fined a total of 487
million euros for participating in a separate cartel involving
glass used in the  construction industry .  “Firms should be under no illusion about the commission’s
resolve to fight cartels and impose fines that should deter them
from breaching competition rules in the EU,”  Joaquin Almunia ,
the EU’s competition chief, said in the statement.  Korean Probe  Asahi Glass has already made “sufficient provision” for
the fine and no longer produces glass for cathode-ray tubes,
spokesman Masahiko Tobari said in an e-mailed statement. The
company said its cathode-ray tube glass business is also being
probed by the Korean Fair Trade Commission.  Nippon Electric Glass, Schott and Samsung Corning didn’t
respond to e-mails and calls seeking comment.  Regulators raided offices of the specialty glass companies
in March 2009. The European Commission is also investigating
Royal Philips Electronics NV and other companies for fixing the
price of cathode ray tubes. Sales of the tubes have fallen as
consumers switched to slimmer LCD and plasma screens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 