-- 
Asia Currencies Strengthen as Growth Outlook Outweighs Europe-Debt Concern

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-10-19T09:02:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/asia-currencies-strengthen-as-growth-outlook-outweighs-europe-debt-concern.html
Asian currencies rose, led by  South
Korea ’s won, on speculation the region’s growth outlook will
attract foreign investment even as the world’s developed
economies falter.  Global funds have bought $1.8 billion more Indonesian,
South Korean, Taiwanese and Thai equities than they sold so far
this month, according to exchange data. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan
Asia Dollar Index climbed for a second day after China released
data yesterday that showed industrial production and retail
sales beat economists’ estimates in September.  “Risk appetite may not be that great, but if you compare
Asia’s growth with developed nations, Asia is still better,”
said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency dealer at Okasan
Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “Still, Europe’s debt issue will
continue to be a key factor to set the tone for the market.”  The won closed 1.2 percent stronger at 1,132.30 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s ringgit
gained 0.7 percent to 3.1115,  Thailand ’s baht advanced 0.2
percent to 30.68 and Taiwan’s dollar climbed 0.3 percent to
NT$30.100.  The  International Monetary Fund  predicted last month that
Asia’s developing economies will expand 8.2 percent in 2011,
compared with 1.5 percent in the U.S. and 1.6 percent in the
euro area. China’s third-quarter gross domestic product slowed
to 9.1 percent from 9.5 percent in the previous three months,
data showed yesterday.  The Bank of Thailand held its one-day bond repurchase rate
at 3.5 percent today, a decision predicted by 16 of 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One forecast a 25-basis point
reduction.  Currency-Swap Deal  The won touched a one-month high after the nation agreed to
increase a currency-swap accord with  Japan  to $70 billion,
helping to counter concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen.  “Market players are finding it hard to take a strong
position ahead of the European summit, making the won move
within a certain range,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency analyst
at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “Exporters’ selling dollars
to convert income may support the currency.”  Speculation European leaders are closer to reaching
agreement on a plan to stem the region’s debt crisis also
supported Asian currencies today. The U.K.’s Guardian newspaper
reported yesterday that Germany and France support boosting a
rescue package to 2 trillion euros ($2.8 trillion). The two
nations have yet to agree on how to bolster the European bailout
fund, a person with direct knowledge of the talks told Bloomberg,
declining to be named as the discussions are not public.  “The risk-on dynamic has developed in anticipation of
better news from  Europe ,” said  Robert Minikin , a senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in  Hong
Kong .  Philippine Inflation Outlook  The Philippine peso rose toward a one-month high on
speculation policy makers will tolerate currency gains to rein
in inflation rather than raise borrowing costs. The currency
gained 0.3 percent to 43.158 per dollar.  All 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict the central
bank will keep the benchmark overnight rate at 4.5 percent
tomorrow, the highest level in more than two years. Policy
settings are appropriate and there is no compelling reason to
change approach while the government embarks on a $1.7 billion
stimulus program, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said Oct. 16.  “The policy rate is about right given that inflation is
still elevated,” said Arthur Michael de Castro, an analyst at
Bank of the Philippine Islands in  Manila . “We are still looking
at a fairly strong third-quarter gross domestic product and more
upside to the peso with support from strong remittances.”  Elsewhere,  China ’s yuan rose 0.06 percent to 6.3775 per
dollar. Indonesia’s rupiah and India’s rupee climbed 0.2 percent
to 8,801 and 49.19 per dollar, respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net 
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 