-- 
Stocks Drop, Euro Erases Gain as Division Arises in European Crisis Talks

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-19T20:22:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/asia-stocks-korean-won-gain-on-europe-outlook-u-s-futures-drop-on-apple.html
U.S. stocks fell and the euro erased
gains as a split emerged between  France  and  Germany  on ways to
boost the European bailout fund, while the Federal Reserve said
companies grew more pessimistic about the economy.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
slid the most since 2008 as earnings trailed estimates.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 1.3 percent to close
at 1,209.88 at 4 p.m. in New York after earlier climbing to
1,229.64, above its highest closing level since Aug. 3.
Financial shares in the index lost 1.7 percent as a group,
reversing a 1.5 percent rally. The euro was little changed at
$1.3748 after climbing 0.9 percent earlier. The S&P GSCI Index
of commodities fell 1.7 percent, wiping out a 0.9 percent gain.  Stocks, the euro and commodities turned lower as France and
Germany disagreed on the role of the  European Central Bank  in
leveraging the rescue fund and banks lobbied against forced
recapitalizations and larger writedowns of Greek debt. French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  flew to Germany to join the talks as
European leaders assembled in  Frankfurt  in an effort to narrow
divisions before an Oct. 23 summit.  “Time is running out for Europe,” Paul Zemsky, the New
York-based head of asset allocation for ING Investment
Management, said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees
$550 billion. “The longer it waits to fix itself the more
uncertainty there is. We set the top of the range on the S&P
500. It would take a lot of good news to get through 1,230.”  Bailout Expansion  U.S. equities extended gains in the final hour of trading
yesterday, sending the S&P 500 up 2 percent, after the Guardian
newspaper reported that France and Germany agreed to boost the
bailout fund to 2 trillion euros. In contrast, the Financial
Times Deutschland said German Finance Minister  Wolfgang
Schaeuble  told lawmakers in Berlin that the fund’s firepower may
be increased to a maximum of 1 trillion euros.  Group of 20 finance chiefs last week set the Oct. 23
meeting as a deadline for action by European officials. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  this week sought to lower expectations
that the crisis-fighting effort would climax at the summit in
Brussels.  The  Federal Reserve  said the economy maintained its
expansion last month, while companies reported more doubt about
the strength of the recovery.  “Overall economic activity continued to expand in
September, although many districts described the pace of growth
as ‘modest’ or ‘slight,’” the Fed said in its Beige Book
survey. “Contacts generally noted weaker or less certain
outlooks for business conditions.”  Apple Earnings  Technology shares fell 2.2 percent as a group and were the
biggest drag on the S&P 500 as Apple slumped 5.6 percent after
profit trailed analysts’ estimates for the first time in at
least six years as customers waited for the new iPhone model to
go on sales.  Alcoa Inc., Bank of America Corp. and Johnson & Johnson
tumbled at least 2.8 percent to lead losses in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , which slipped 72.43 points, or 0.6 percent,
to 11,504.62.  Many stocks that rose earlier on better-than-estimated
earnings either pared gains or followed the market lower.
Citigroup Inc. slipped 1.6 percent after earlier surging 4.9
percent. The bank agreed to pay $285 million to settle claims by
the Securities and Exchange Commission that it mislead investors
about a $1 billion collateralized debt obligation tied to the
U.S. housing market in which the bank bet against investors.  Earnings Season  Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s largest brokerage,
trimmed its gain to less than 0.1 percent after climbing as much
as 6.6 percent after an accounting gain from debt valuations and
higher stock-trading revenue lifted results.  Intel Corp . pared a 4.7 percent rally to 3.6 percent. The
world’s biggest chipmaker forecast fourth-quarter sales that
exceeded some analysts’ projections.  The  S&P 500  has rebounded 10 percent from a 13-month low on
Oct. 3 as U.S. economic data and corporate earnings topped
forecasts and speculation grew that European leaders will do
more to tame the region’s debt crisis.  Earnings-per-share topped analysts’ estimates at about 73
percent of the 55 companies in the S&P 500 that released
quarterly results since Oct. 11, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income grew 14 percent for the group and sales
increased 9.3 percent.  “Earnings season is pointing to an economy that is not
weakening,”  Jonathan Golub , chief U.S. market strategist at UBS
Securities LLC, said today on Bloomberg Radio’s “The First
Word.”  Housing Starts  A gauge of homebuilders erased gains after rallying earlier
on a Commerce Department report that showed builders began work
on 658,000 houses at an annual rate in September, up 15 percent
from August and the most since April 2010. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey called for a 590,000 pace.  The 10-year Treasury note yield decreased two basis points
to 2.16 percent, while the rate on the 30-year bond was little
changed at 3.18 perceng.  Copper, sugar and lead fell more than 2.8 percent to lead
losses in 21 of 24 materials tracked by the S&P GSCI index.
Crude oil slipped from a one-month high, falling 2.5 percent to
$86.11 a barrel in New York.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index closed up 0.6 percent as
optimism grew during the European trading session that officials
would reach an agreement to increase the bailout fund.  Software AG, Tele2 AB and British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc rallied after reporting results. Hochtief AG gained 3.7
percent as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. upgraded the construction
company. Banks in the index rose 2.1 percent as a group even as
EU regulators raided lenders that offer financial derivatives
linked to the Euro Interbank Offered Rate in a collusion
investigation.  Spain Downgrade  Spanish bonds slumped after Moody’s Investors Service
yesterday reduced its ranking to its fifth-highest investment
grade, cutting it by two levels to A1 from Aa2, with the outlook
remaining negative. The Spanish five-year bond yield increased
five basis points to 4.70 percent, climbing for the seventh day,
the longest stretch since December.  Greek two-year note yields jumped 18 basis points to 76.63
percent, increasing for the fourth straight day and approaching
a record high set in September. Greek Prime Minister  George
Papandreou  won a preliminary vote on a new round of austerity
measures, sending a signal to euro-area leaders that  Greece  will
hold to its bailout program amid social unrest. Protesters
clashed with police in central  Athens  as lawmakers used tear gas
to hold back demonstrators from the parliament building.  The Irish two-year yield surged 82 basis points, up for a
third day.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.6 percent after
yesterday’s 1.7 percent slide. Banks led the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of Chinese shares traded in  Hong Kong  1.2
percent higher as lower money-market rates signaled the nation’s
central bank will inject more funds into the financial system.
South Korea’s won strengthened 1.1 percent against the dollar
after the nation agreed to increase a currency-swap accord with
 Japan  to $70 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  