-- 
AT&T Seeks Data on Sprint’s Wireless Deals in Antitrust Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-10-19T19:37:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/at-t-seeks-data-on-sprint-s-wireless-deals-in-antitrust-case.html
AT&T Inc., the wireless carrier
fighting U.S. efforts to block its proposed acquisition of T-
Mobile USA Inc., asked for data on rival  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s
past corporate transactions.  AT&T asked Sprint for documents relating to transactions
entered into since January 2004, including deals with Nextel
Communications Inc., Virgin Mobile and Clearwire Corp.,
according to a filing in  Washington  federal court today by
Sprint, which filed its own lawsuit to halt the T-Mobile deal.  Sprint said the request shows why U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle should give it access to data Dallas-based AT&T
turned over to the  Justice Department .  “Requests for these types of documents go far beyond
ordinary, non-party merger case discovery, which focuses on the
current competitive landscape, not on the details of every
transaction entered into by a competitor in the last eight
years,”  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint said in the filing.  Sprint and Ridgeland, Mississippi-based Cellular South Inc.
urged Huvelle to let their outside lawyers and experts use
AT&T’s private data to prepare for trial in their own lawsuits.
To deprive them of that opportunity creates a “fundamental
unfairness,” the wireless carriers said in an earlier filing.  Relevant Information  The companies argue that as competitors with relevant
information they have been subpoenaed for documents by AT&T in
the government’s antitrust suit to block the deal. At the same
time, Huvelle, overseeing all the AT&T cases, froze document
exchanges in the private lawsuits while she weighs the company’s
bid to dismiss them.  John Taylor , a spokesman for Sprint, declined to comment
beyond the filing. Michael Balmoris, an AT&T spokesman, declined
to comment.  In an Oct. 17 filing, AT&T said the subpoenas it issued to
Sprint, Cellular South and 14 other wireless providers are
routine and seek information on similar topics. Huvelle said in
a court filing that she’ll address the issue at a hearing
scheduled for Oct. 24.  The Justice Department sued AT&T and Bonn-based  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a combination of
the two companies would “substantially” reduce competition.
Seven states and  Puerto Rico  joined the effort to block the
deal, which would make AT&T the biggest U.S. wireless carrier.  Market Leaders  Sprint filed its antitrust lawsuit on Sept. 6, less than a
week after the U.S. sued. Sprint, the third-biggest U.S.
wireless carrier, said the proposed merger would weaken its
ability to compete with AT&T, the second-biggest, and  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , the market leader. The combination of AT&T
and T-Mobile would form the country’s largest mobile-phone
company.  Cellular South sued on Sept. 19, claiming the merger
threatened to “substantially” cut competition.  Sprint became the No. 3 U.S. mobile-phone provider after
its $36 billion purchase of Nextel Communications Inc. in 2005.
It bought Virgin Mobile USA Inc. in 2009 and took a majority
stake in Clearwire in 2008, where it doesn’t have operational
control.  Sprint has also bought affiliates with which it had
agreements to use the Sprint brand in exchange for building out
the network, including IPCS Inc. in 2009.  The case is U.S. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  