-- 
Audi-Ford Price Gap Widest Since 1999 as U.S. Gains Share: Cars

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-10-19T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/audi-ford-price-gap-widest-since-1999-as-u-s-gains-share-cars.html
Foreign cars are selling in the U.S.
at the biggest price premium to domestic autos in almost 12
years as a weak dollar curtails imports of lower-priced models,
allowing  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  to gain share.  The average selling price for a new imported car climbed to
a record high of $31,536 in August, according to the U.S. Bureau
of Economic Analysis. That was $7,614 more than the average
domestic-made car, the biggest gap since December 1999. With
Toyota Corollas and Honda Civics in short supply, more Americans
have turned to Chevrolet Cruze and Ford Fiesta cars.  The weak dollar discourages automakers such as  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. from importing lower-priced cars,
which have slimmer profit margins. While Japan’s tsunami
disrupted auto exports, continued deliveries of premium-brand
cars such as  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi boosted luxury autos to a
higher portion of imported-car sales, said  Paul Ballew , chief
economist for Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. in Columbus, Ohio,  “It’s very hard to import, especially from  Asia , small
cars right now because of where the dollar is,” he said in a
telephone interview. “If you look at luxury-car sales the last
few months, they’re up double-digits from a year ago while small
cars are down more than 20 percent.”  The dollar dropped to a post-World War II low of 75.95 yen
Aug. 19. It slumped to a 17-month low against the euro May 4,
when it reached $1.4940 for the first time since December 2009.
The euro rose 0.1 percent to 1.3769 per dollar at 4:35 p.m. New
York time yesterday. The yen rose less than 0.1 percent to
76.84.  Tsunami Effects  Japan’s earthquake and tsunami in March disrupted car
output by Toyota City-based Toyota and Honda. The lack of
vehicle inventories led Toyota and Tokyo-based Honda to scale
back incentives and boost transaction prices, said Chris Hopson,
a Lexington, Massachusetts-based analyst at IHS Automotive.  GM and Ford have closed a quality gap to their Japanese
rivals, according to researchers J.D. Power & Associates and
 Consumer Reports . J.D. Power’s 2009 study of new-car quality
found that the difference in the number of problems Toyota, Ford
and Chevrolet owners had with their vehicles was “statistically
insignificant.” Consumer Reports said in August it couldn’t
recommend Honda’s Civic, citing rough ride and noise.  GM has gained a point of U.S. market share, rising to 20
percent through September, while Ford’s share increased 0.1
point to 16.7 percent. Total U.S. light-vehicle deliveries
increased 10 percent from last year to the highest nine-month
total since 2008.  Incentives Outlook  The surging yen may deter Japanese automakers from using
aggressive discounts late this year to try to reclaim U.S.
market share. IHS is “not expecting more than usual year-end
clearance promotions, along with perhaps some marketing
activity” from Toyota and Honda, Hopson wrote in an e-mail.  Industrywide average spending on incentives in the U.S.
fell 9.6 percent through September to $2,498 per vehicle,
according to Autodata Corp. Discount offers in September fell
3.5 percent from a year earlier to $2,653 on average, according
to the  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based researcher.  While models made in Japan are now more available than in
August, incentives are “clearly not” surging, probably because
of the strong yen relative to the dollar,  Himanshu Patel , a New
York-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in an Oct. 4
research note.  Shifting Production  Toyota, Honda, and Nissan Motor Co. are shifting production
out of Japan as the surging yen erodes the profitability of
building cars in their home market. Nissan is scheduled to open
a new 200,000-unit assembly plant in  Brazil  in 2014 and has
boosted investment in factories in Mexico and  Thailand  for small
cars that it says can no longer be built profitably in  Japan .  “If Japan wants employment, you’re going to have to do
something about establishing a normal  exchange rate ,”  Carlos Ghosn , chief executive officer of Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan,
said in an Oct. 6 interview. “If this rate was to stay for a
while, I think you’re going to see a hollowing out of the
industry.”  Toyota plans to spend 26.3 billion yen to build a second
factory in  Indonesia  and is setting up a production hub with a
network of suppliers in the Southeast Asian country as it aims
to get half its sales from emerging markets by 2015. Honda said
Oct. 5 it will reduce exports to as little as 10 percent of
domestic production, from 34 percent last year.  Volkswagen opened a new factory in  Tennessee  in May, and
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  completed an expansion of its South
Carolina assembly plant late last year.  “Import manufacturers cannot afford to do what they’ve
normally done in terms of bringing in products from Asian
markets,” Nationwide’s Ballew said. “You’re looking at some
temporary anomalies, but you’re also looking at some structural
changes. There is some renewed energy to bring manufacturing
into the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  