-- 
Australian, New Zealand Dollars Gain as Stocks, Economic Indicators Rise

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-10-19T15:49:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/australian-new-zealand-dollars-gain-as-stocks-economic-indicators-rise.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars gained against their U.S. counterpart as global stocks
extended a rally, boosting demand for riskier assets.  The Aussie rose against the yen after reports showed gains
in leading economic indicators for Australia and China. The
South Pacific currencies reversed earlier declines amid optimism
European leaders will reach an agreement at a summit this
weekend to bolster the region’s bailout fund.  “The risk environment is clearly improving,” said  Thomas Harr , head of Asian currency strategy at  Standard Chartered  in
Singapore. “The global economy is in OK shape and China is not
slowing too much. The Australian and New Zealand dollars should
be reasonably supported.”  Australia’s dollar climbed 0.3 percent to $1.0291 as at
11:47 a.m. in  New York , after earlier falling as much as 0.3
percent. The currency advanced 0.2 percent to 79 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar gained 0.2 percent to 79.71 U.S.
cents, erasing an earlier decline of 0.3 percent. The kiwi rose
0.1 percent to 61.20 yen.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of shares advanced 0.5 percent and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent.  Australian Economy  A leading index of future economic growth in Australia
advanced 0.8 percent in August from a month earlier to 287,
Westpac Banking Corp. and the Melbourne Institute said in a
statement in Sydney today. Westpac’s leading index tracks eight
gauges of activity, including company profits and productivity.  A leading economic index for  China  rose 0.5 percent to
159.5 in August, the Conference Board, a New York-based research
organization, said on its website today.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy pledged last week to present a plan to fix
Europe’s debt crisis when leaders from the Group of 20 nations
convene in Cannes, France on Nov. 3. The group’s finance
ministers and central bankers meeting last weekend set an Oct.
23 summit of European leaders as a deadline to agree on a
comprehensive solution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  