-- 
Austria Sees 2012 Deficit Narrowing to 3.2%, Fekter Says

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-10-19T07:13:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/austria-sees-2012-deficit-narrowing-to-3-2-fekter-says.html
Austria ’s budget deficit will narrow
to 3.2 percent of gross domestic product next year on increased
revenue from sales and income taxes even as the economy slows
more than forecast, the  finance ministry  said.  The Alpine republic, one of the six remaining AAA-rated
countries in the euro area, will probably beat its deficit
target of 3.9 percent this year, Finance Minister Maria Fekter
told journalists late yesterday in remarks embargoed for today.
She declined to elaborate. Fekter is presenting the 2012 budget
in Austria’s parliament today in the capital Vienna.  “We expect to be able to keep the AAA rating with this
budget,” Fekter said. She also said she hopes that the extra
interest Austria has to pay for its debt compared with German
 government bonds  “won’t rise further.”  The spread of Austrian over German 10-year bonds yesterday
rose to 101.7 basis points, the highest since April 2009. While
Austria’s deficit is below the euro-area average, investor
concerns still linger that some of lenders may require more aid
because of their exposure to eastern  Europe . Two of Austria’s
four biggest banks last week postponed repayment of a total of
1.5 billion euros ($2.1 billion) of aid because of unexpected
losses.  The government had in April foreseen a deficit of 3.3
percent in 2012, based on an estimated 2 percent GDP growth.
While it now assumes growth to slow to 0.8 percent, it sees
solid consumption to help expand sales tax revenue and high
employment to increase wage tax receipts, together more than
making up for the loss in output growth, Fekter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  