-- 
Bain-Backed Sunac China Says Sales May Exceed $3.3 Billion on Rich Buyers

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-20T09:29:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/bain-backed-sunac-china-says-sales-may-exceed-3-3-billion-on-rich-buyers.html
Sunac China Holdings Ltd. (1918) , the
developer part-owned by Bain Capital LLC, said sales may exceed
20 billion yuan ($3.3 billion) next year as it sells more luxury
homes to wealthy Chinese buyers.  Tianjin-based Sunac’s cash will rise to 6 billion yuan
after the company expects to reach this year’s 18.3 billion yuan
sales target in November, Chairman Sun Hongbin said. The company
aims to use 2 billion yuan to 3 billion yuan of the money to
boost its land holdings as prices slow, he said.  Sunac is expanding as demand for luxury housing shows
resilience even as the government intensifies efforts to curb
 home prices , Sun said. Housing prices gained in fewer than half
of the 70 cities monitored by the statistics bureau in September
for a second month as sales eased after limits on home purchases
in some cities were imposed and  mortgage rates  increased.  “People cherish their opportunities to buy even more
because of the home-purchase restrictions,” Sun told reporters
in Beijing on Oct. 17. “That’s very lucky for companies
developing high-end properties like us.”  Sunac focuses on high-end properties in Beijing, Tianjin,
Chongqing, Wuxi, Suzhou and Yixing. New-home prices in four of
the six cities Sunac operates in, including Beijing and
Chongqing, either fell or were unchanged from August, according
to the statistics bureau data on Oct. 18. Sunac’s net income
rose 67 percent in the first half from a year earlier to 318.7
million yuan after sales of properties jumped 64 percent,
according to the company’s financial statement.  Higher Prices  The average selling price for Sunac West Chateau, located
near the Old Summer Palace in northwest Beijing, has risen to
48,000 yuan a square meter (10.76 square foot) from 44,000 yuan
when the residential project was first sold in June, as wealthy
Chinese favor high-end properties in prime locations, said Lou
Yanqing, deputy sales manager of the project.  Sunac’s sales projection may ease concerns that have driven
the shares 43 percent lower since May 2, when  Fitch Ratings 
revised its credit outlook to negative from stable as the
cancellation of a  bond issue  threatened to strain liquidity and
sales lagged behind the developer’s target. Sunac’s debt has a
BB- non-investment grade rating at both Fitch and  Standard &
Poor’s .  The rating “will remain relatively stable for the near
term unless sales drop significantly before the end of the year
or the company makes some drastic land purchases,” Bei Fu, a
Hong Kong-based property credit analyst at Standard & Poor’s,
said by phone. If land acquisitions greatly exceed Sun’s plans,
“the rating may be under pressure,” Fu said.  ‘Too Cheap’  Sunac’s stock valuation of as low as 1.4 times expected
earnings this year is “absurd and too cheap” as concerns about
government curbs outweigh the company’s fundamentals, Sun said.  A “normal” level for the stock should be at least five
times earnings, he said. Sunac’s 60 closest competitors trade at
an average multiple of 19, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The valuation is preventing Sunac from additional stock
offerings and the lack of foreign-currency holdings hampers any
plan to buy back shares, which are traded in  Hong Kong , Sun said.
Gross profit margin for this year will be about 40 percent,
similar to last year’s, he added.  Positive Action?  Sunac’s sales “have been strong because of highly
successful project launches despite the market environment,”
Hong Kong-based Fitch analyst Su Aik Lim said by phone. “As the
company’s performance continues to meet expectations, it does
satisfy one of the factors for positive action, but this is
weighed down by recent large investments.”  Sunac agreed to acquire the remaining 50 percent of a
subsidiary operating West Chateau from Beijing Shougang for 1.45
billion yuan, obtaining the right to receive all net profits
from the project, the company said in a statement to the Hong
Kong stock exchange yesterday.  Sunac was unchanged at HK$1.57 at the close in Hong Kong
trading. The  Hang Seng Index  fell 1.8 percent.  Prices for residential land in  China  rose 2.17 percent in
the second quarter from the first quarter, slower than the first
three months of the year, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported in July, citing a report from the Ministry of Land and
Resources. Land prices in Beijing dropped 0.58 percent.  --Zhang Dingmin. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  