-- 
Bakken Turns Oasis Into Target as Fracking Costs Slide: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-10-19T20:32:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/bakken-shale-oil-turns-oasis-into-target-as-fracking-costs-slide-real-m-a.html
Buyers looking to extract the best
deals from Bakken shale oil may turn to  Oasis Petroleum Inc. (OAS)  and
 Whiting Petroleum Corp. (WLL)  as the cost to find and produce a barrel
of crude soars.  Among the biggest U.S. explorers in the 200,000 square-mile
(518,000 square-kilometer) geological formation centered in
North Dakota, Oasis and Whiting owned the most Bakken shale
acreage versus their takeover value, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. On that basis, both control more land than  Brigham
Exploration Co. (BEXP) , which sold itself to  Statoil ASA (STL)  this week for
more than $12,000 per Bakken acre in the most expensive major
acquisition in the region, said Pritchard Capital Partners LLC.  Energy companies around the world are pursuing
unconventional oil assets such as Bakken shale to boost output
as the average cost for finding and developing the fuel for the
largest U.S. producers surged more than sixfold in the past
decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Oasis and Whiting,
along with Continental Resources Inc., may now attract interest
from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and India’s
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  as the cost to extract Bakken shale oil
falls, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey and  RBC Capital Markets  said.  “Brigham just underpins what an attractive basin this
is,” Stephen Berman, a New York-based analyst for Pritchard
Capital, said in a telephone interview. “There are other
companies that could be gobbled up in the consolidation. If they
want to get in the basin in a big way, they’ve got to buy a
Brigham or an Oasis.”  Horizontal Drilling  The Bakken formation, the largest contiguous oil deposit in
the continental U.S., lies within the Williston Basin, an
ancient sedimentary deposit that stretches from  South Dakota 
into  Canada ’s province of Saskatchewan.  The formation may contain as much as 4.3 billion barrels of
technically recovered oil under western  North Dakota  and eastern
Montana, the U.S. Geological Survey  estimated  in April 2008.
That’s enough to meet all U.S. crude oil needs for more than 220
days, based on an estimate by the Central Intelligence Agency.  So-called tight oil plays such as the Bakken have only been
accessed in the past decade by drilling horizontally through
oil-bearing rock and then fracturing the formation by injecting
water mixed with sand and chemicals to keep the cracks open and
petroleum flowing, a process known as “fracking.”  Most oil production so far has been in  western North
Dakota , where companies have tapped the so-called middle Bakken,
a deposit trapped between two layers of shale, and Three Forks,
rock underneath the lower shale layer.  Prolific Potential  “Given the size and potential of what this field could be,
that’s attractive,” Christian O’Neill, an oil analyst for
Bloomberg Industries in Skillman,  New Jersey , said in a
telephone interview. “You’re just entering in a development
stage. It has the potential to be a prolific field over time.”  Statoil, Norway’s biggest oil company, gained about 375,000
net acres in the Williston Basin, where the Bakken and Three
Forks are located, after saying this week it will purchase
Austin, Texas-based Brigham for about $4.5 billion including net
debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Based on the number of acres acquired, Statoil’s deal for
Brigham would be the costliest major Bakken deal on record and
at least 50 percent more than what  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) 
and  Hess Corp. (HES)  paid for Bakken acreage in the past year,
according to RBC Capital.  Unconventional Drilling  Oil companies are expanding into unconventional drilling
areas as the cost to locate, extract and produce the fuel
skyrockets. Over the past 10 years, the finding and development
costs at Exxon, the biggest U.S. producer, has jumped more than
10-fold to $14.21 a barrel, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Among companies drilling for Bakken shale oil, Oasis and
Whiting now offer the greatest value per acre, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Houston-based Oasis controls 303,000 net
acres in the Bakken and has an enterprise value, or the sum of
its equity and net debt, of about $2.87 billion.  That equals 106 acres for each $1 million in enterprise
value, the data show. Whiting of Denver had about 96 acres per
$1 million. Both had almost three times more acreage implied by
the median ratio for oil companies operating in the region.  Using Statoil’s deal offer of $12,082 per acre for Brigham,
shares of Oasis and Whiting could now be worth at least 20
percent more in an acquisition, the data show.  ‘Land Grab’  Oasis is a likely takeover candidate because it has
properties close to Brigham’s fields and is probably open to
selling itself, Pritchard Capital’s Berman said.  Whiting, which has much of its 579,000 net acres in the
southern part of the basin, is the most leveraged to the Bakken
of any oil producer with almost five acres per thousand shares,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Exxon’s 450,000 net acres
amounts to less than 0.1 acre per thousand shares.  “You’ve done most of the land grab at this time, and so
now to get a position in the Bakken for the most part you’re
going to have to buy companies because it’s hard to buy large
attractive acreage anymore,”  Scott Hanold , a Minneapolis-based
analyst for RBC Capital, said in a telephone interview. If the
larger oil companies “want to get some of the better positions
they’ve got to act sooner than later,” he said.  Richard Robuck, director of investor relations at Oasis,
and Whiting’s John B. Kelso didn’t return telephone calls
seeking comment.  Oasis shares rose as much as 4.3 percent before closing
down 1 percent at $30.99 in  New York  today. Whiting climbed as
much as 9.3 percent before closing up 3.9 percent at $43.92.
The gain was the second-biggest among 72 companies in the
Russell 1000 Energy Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Exxon,  ConocoPhillips (COP)   Falling costs to find and extract oil from the Bakken is
luring producers such as Exxon and ConocoPhillips, according to
Jason Wangler, a Houston-based analyst for SunTrust Robinson.  Costs at Enid, Oklahoma-based Continental Resources, the
most leveraged explorer to the Bakken after Whiting, have
plummeted about 60 percent to $9.63 a barrel of oil equivalent
since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s $4.58 less per
barrel than Exxon’s expense.  “We get approached all the time” by potential buyers,
Kristin Miskovsky, a spokeswoman for Continental Resources, said
in a telephone interview. “Our policy is not to comment on
speculation.”  Shares of Continental Resources slid 0.8 percent to $58.37
today in New York.  While RBC Capital’s Hanold said Exxon may want to increase
its position in the Bakken through acquisitions, Mumbai-based
Reliance,  India ’s biggest company by market value, and The
Hague-based Shell,  Europe ’s largest oil company, may be among
other buyers, according to SunTrust Robinson’s Wangler.  Asian Companies  Jeffrey Neu, a spokesman for Exxon, said the company
doesn’t comment on industry rumors or speculation. Kelly op de
Weegh, a spokeswoman for Shell, declined to comment. Manoj Warrier, a spokesman for Reliance, didn’t respond to a telephone
call or e-mail outside normal business hours.  Bakken shale oil companies may also attract interest from
Chinese energy companies, SunTrust Robinson’s Wangler said.
Asian companies may spend $150 billion on takeovers in the next
five years to secure energy resources for their faster-growing
economies, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Although the Bakken formation contains so-called
light sweet crude oil that commands higher prices, one challenge
for companies looking to shore up acreage in the region is a
lack of pipelines to transport the oil to areas with higher
demand, according to Bloomberg Industries’ O’Neill. Fracking may
also cause serious environmental damage unless companies commit
to the best engineering practices, a task force commissioned by
U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu concluded in August.  Still, with oil approaching $90 a barrel and the breakeven
price for production from Brigham’s Bakken acreage at just $55 a
barrel, the Statoil deal may spur more acquisitions of shale oil
assets in the area, SunTrust Robinson’s Wangler said.  “We may look back on this transaction as the start of a
major consolidation,” he said. “It would be very tough to
assemble a package of acreage without buying somebody out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 