-- 
BBVA, Spain Banks Cut by Moody’s After Sovereign Downgrade

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-10-20T09:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/banco-santander-bbva-downgraded-by-moody-s-on-sovereign-action.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and CaixaBank SA were downgraded by
Moody’s Investors Service a day after the ratings company cut
the nation’s grade for the third time in 13 months.  Long-term senior debt and deposit ratings for the banks
were cut one level and given a negative outlook, Moody’s said
yesterday in a statement. Shares in Santander fell as much as
1.8 percent in Madrid trading today and BBVA as much as 2.4
percent.  Spanish banks are under pressure as the country’s economy
struggles to restore growth after a property crash triggered the
worst recession in 60 years. Moody’s on Oct. 18 cut Spain’s
credit rating two levels to A1, citing concerns about a
“fragile” banking industry whose asset quality is being harmed
by difficult funding and economic conditions.  “A few months ago some banks were starting to say they
were seeing the light at the end of the tunnel, but they were
wrong,” said Jose Ochoa, senior director in  Spain  at financial
industry consulting firm Alvarez & Marsal Inc. “The outlook for
Spain is getting worse every day and so logically the banks are
suffering with these downgrades.”  Santander, BBVA and CaixaBank had their ratings cut to Aa3
from Aa2, Moody’s said. Moody’s also cut the debt ratings of
savings bank group  La Caixa , which controls CaixaBank, and the
Spanish savings bank association, known as CECA.  Rising Loan Defaults  Credit demand has shrunk and defaults as a proportion of
total lending rose in August to 7.15 percent, the highest since
1994, according to a Bank of Spain report. Deposits in Spain’s
banking system fell for a second month in a row in August,
declining 0.3 percent to 1.4 trillion euros ($1.9 billion).  “The downgrade of the Spanish government has only affected
the debt and deposit ratings of those banks that have high
stand-alone ratings and that Moody’s believes have a high
probability of benefiting from systemic support,” Moody’s said,
adding that the banks’ ratings are one notch higher based on
government support.  Moody’s said it would be assessing over the coming weeks
“any possible implications of revised economic projections for
the Spanish economy on the performance of Spanish banks’ assets
and the potential negative impact on the ratings of the overall
banking sector.”  S&P Downgrade  Moody’s action follows an Oct. 11 decision by  Standard &
Poor’s  to cut the ratings on Spanish lenders including Santander
and BBVA, the nation’s biggest banks.  “We no longer see 2012 as a turnaround year for Spanish
banks,” S&P said in a statement on Oct. 11, adding that the
outlook for all the banks it covers in Spain is negative.
“Their ratings prior to today’s downgrades had little room to
accommodate another year of weak financial performance.”  Spanish bonds slumped after Moody’s downgraded the nation’s
sovereign debt. The five-year bond yield increased 7 basis
points to 4.74 percent today, climbing for the eighth day.  Santander Chief Executive Officer Alfredo Saenz last month
said it may take three years for profit at Spain’s largest bank
to “normalize.” The bank has relied on emerging markets such
as  Brazil  to support earnings amid falling profit in Spain,
which accounts for a third of its lending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  