-- 
Bangkok Volunteers Fortify Levy as Thai Floods Shut Plants, Disrupt Supply

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-10-19T02:38:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/bangkok-volunteers-fortify-levy-as-thai-floods-shut-plants-disrupt-supply.html
Thousands of volunteers bolstered
floodwalls in Bangkok, boosting confidence among officials
tasked with protecting  Thailand ’s capital from a surge of water
that has shut factories and disrupted supply chains across  Asia .  “We have enough sandbags,” Bangkok Governor Sukhumbhand Paribatra said yesterday in Sai Mai district, where about 2,000
soldiers, students, residents and city workers gathered to fill
more than one million sandbags to strengthen a six-kilometer
(3.7-mile) levy. “I am very happy with the response.”  Two days ago, Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s
government urged city administrators to bolster flood defenses
as a mass of water descended onto the capital, where it must
pass before draining into the Gulf of Thailand. North of the
city, factory managers tallied the losses from a disaster that
has claimed 315 lives since July.  The nation’s worst floods in five decades have closed about
1,000 factories operated by companies including Honda Motor Co.
and Canon Inc. and disrupted supply chains for manufacturers
such as Toyota Motor Corp.  Western Digital Corp. (WDC) , which relies
Thailand for 60 percent of production, may see exports from the
country slide as much as 40 percent to 120 billion baht ($3.9
billion) this year after floods shut two of its plants.  “This will surely affect the global supply chain and also
consumers because  Western Digital  is a key producer in the
global market,” Industry Minister Wannarat Charnnukul told
reporters after meeting with executives from the computer disk-
drive maker yesterday. The company counts Hewlett-Packard Co.,
Dell Inc. and Acer Inc. among its customers.  Boat Evacuation  Government officials plan to use boats to evacuate those
remaining in Navanakorn Pcl’s industrial estate north of Bangkok
after it was flooded, said Wim Roongwatanachinda, a spokesman
for the Flood Relief Operation Command. The Cabinet yesterday
agreed to widen the 2012  budget deficit  by 50 billion baht to
fund flood reconstruction, Finance Minister Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala said.  "They probably need to do more because fiscal policy now
would not just be focused on consumption," Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group
AG, told Bloomberg Television today. "To restore investor
confidence, they need to invest in water management and
infrastructure."  Baht Strengthens  Thailand’s baht strengthened after retreating from a three-
week high yesterday on concerns a disruption in manufacturing
will hurt exports and economic growth, gaining 0.2 percent to
30.68 per dollar at 9:15 a.m. local time. The benchmark SET
Index fell 1.9 percent, with Thai Reinsurance Pcl plunging 8.4
percent, extending an 18 percent decline this month.  The Bank of Thailand will keep its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 3.50 percent today after having raised it six times
this year, according to all but one of 17 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. One predicted a 25-basis point cut. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  In Sai Mai, festive music played from loudspeakers as
volunteers sorted 10-kilogram sandbags, filled them up and
tossed them onto six-wheeled  dump trucks . Temporary shelters
provided respite from the sun as workers handed out water, soda,
fried rice, muffins and other snacks.  “Saving this area means saving my home,” said San
Santayanont, 36, taking a rest after loading trucks with
sandbags. He lives and works in a nearby district.  ‘Last Line of Defense’  “This is the last line of defense basically for Bangkok,”
said former Finance Minister Korn Chatikavanij. He arrived with
former Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva, whose party lost to
Yingluck’s Pheu Thai in July elections.  “We don’t think there will be mass flooding of northern
Bangkok in the way that we saw in other provinces,” Korn said.
“Inner Bangkok is even more safe.”  Abhisit said Bangkok will continue facing a threat “for
awhile” as the mass of water moves through the city. Yingluck’s
government caused confusion and “underestimated the force of
nature,” he said.  Along the floodwall, water seeped past sandbags in some
areas as workers stacked them up to build a barrier bigger than
two meters (6.5 feet) next to a canal brimming with water. Some
houses made of tin and wood next to the canal were partly
submerged, with residents saying they were concerned water would
overwhelm them as has happened in provinces to the north.  ‘Scared’ of Drowning  “I’m scared the children will drown because the water is
very deep,” said Chamnong Promdaeng, as she watched her three
grandchildren play with stuffed animals on a wooden platform
that sat above about two feet of water. “I can’t leave my house
because thieves will steal everything.”  Further down the street, Urai Riengkua echoed those
concerns. The 43-year-old cradled her 14-month-old grandson
while standing barefoot beside a house made of scrap metal and
wood, which was only accessible by walking over the water on a
wooden plank propped up by sandbags taken from the levy.  “I’ve never seen water this high,” Urai said. “I want to
move but I don’t know where to go. If the water surges, I will
take my grandchild and run as fast as I can.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  