-- 
BofA, Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Sued by ATM User Over Fees

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-19T18:15:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/bank-of-america-wells-fargo-jpmorgan-sued-by-atm-user-over-access-fees.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were sued for allegedly colluding
to fix the fees paid by consumers for access to automated teller
machines.  The antitrust suit, brought in federal court in  Washington 
by an ATM user and made public today, also names Visa Inc. and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s biggest payment networks, as
defendants. It’s the third lawsuit filed in Washington in the
past week alleging price-fixing of ATM fees and surcharges.  “The violation in this case is a horizontal agreement
among every bank that is a member of the Visa and/or MasterCard
networks that charges ATM access fees on foreign ATM
transactions,” the complaint alleges.  The suit was filed by a New Jersey man on behalf of
consumers who “have been forced to pay artificially inflated,
supra-competitive ATM access fees,” according to the filing.  Two earlier lawsuits, one filed yesterday and the other on
Oct. 12, accuse Visa and MasterCard of antitrust violations for
restricting independent ATM operators from charging varying,
lower prices for customers using alternative networks such as
STAR, Shazam Inc. or TransFund.  Uniform Agreement  Under a uniform agreement, the operators can’t charge less
for transactions over a network that competes with Visa and
MasterCard, according to complaints filed by ATM users and a
trade group representing operators of automated teller machines.  James Issokson, a spokesman for MasterCard, based in
Purchase,  New York , said in an e-mailed statement that the
lawsuits “challenging certain MasterCard ATM rules are without
merit” and that the company will defend itself against them.  He said the rules were put in place to protect consumers
from ATM operators seeking to impose “discriminatory
surcharges” on cardholders.  Thomas Kelly , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan, and
Will Valentine, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Visa,
declined to comment on the suit.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman
for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, and Ancel Martinez, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo,
didn’t immediately respond to telephone messages seeking comment.  Branded Cards  The three suits claim that the “overwhelming” majority of
so-called PIN debit cards used for ATM transactions are branded
by Visa or MasterCard. In order to accept one of these cards, an
ATM operator must have access to the Visa and MasterCard
networks. Independent or non-bank operators must be sponsored by
a financial institution that is a member of the Visa and
MasterCard networks.  Visa, MasterCard and their member banks require the service
fee for any transaction at an ATM to be “no less than the
amount charged at that ATM or terminal for a Visa or MasterCard
transaction,” even for transactions that don’t use the
companies’ networks, the lawsuits allege.  The lawsuit against the banks involve so called “foreign
ATM transactions” in which a customer of one bank withdraws
money from an ATM owned or operated by another bank. It seeks
class action status on behalf of those who paid an access fee
for a foreign ATM transaction since Oct. 1, 2007.  “By collusively agreeing to set a price floor for all ATM
access fees at every ATM terminal throughout the country, the
bank defendants and the bank co-conspirators shelter themselves
from natural and beneficial price competition that otherwise
would exist in the market,” the lawsuit claims.  The case involving banks is Genese v.  Visa Inc. (V) , 11-1838;
the case filed by ATM users is Barton v. Visa Inc., 11-1831; and
the case filed by independent ATM operators is National ATM
Council v. Visa Inc., 11-1803, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 