-- 
Beltway Earnings Make U.S. Capital Richer Than Silicon Valley

-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-10-19T04:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/beltway-earnings-make-u-s-capital-richer-than-silicon-valley.html
Federal employees whose compensation
averages more than $126,000 and the nation’s greatest
concentration of lawyers helped Washington edge out  San Jose  as
the wealthiest U.S. metropolitan area, government data show.  The U.S. capital has swapped top spots with Silicon Valley,
according to recent Census Bureau figures, with the typical
household in the Washington metro area earning $84,523 last
year. The national median income for 2010 was $50,046.  The figures demonstrate how the nation’s political and
financial classes are prospering as the economy struggles with
unemployment above 9 percent and thousands of Americans protest
in the streets against income disparity, said Kevin Zeese,
director of  Prosperity Agenda , a Baltimore-based advocacy group
trying to narrow the divide between rich and poor.  “There’s a gap that’s isolating Washington from the
reality of the rest of the country,” Zeese said. “They just
get more and more out of touch.”  Total compensation for federal workers, including health
care and other benefits, last year averaged $126,369, compared
with $122,697 in 2009, according to Bloomberg News calculations
of Commerce Department data. There were 170,467 federal
employees in the  District of Columbia  as of June. The Washington
area includes the District of Columbia, parts of Northern
Virginia, eastern Maryland and eastern  West Virginia .  Embracing K Street  In recent years Washington has attracted more lobbyists and
firms with an interest in the health-care overhaul and financial
regulations signed into law by President  Barack Obama , according
to local business leaders.  “ Wall Street  has moved to K Street,” said Barbara Lang,
president and chief executive officer of the DC Chamber of
Commerce, referring to the Washington street that’s home to
prominent lobbying firms. “Those two industries clearly have
grown in our city.”  Still,  household income  fell even in Washington by 0.8
percent last year from $85,168. In the San Jose area, home to
Cupertino-based  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  in San Jose,
income dropped to $83,944 from $84,483 in 2009.  Median income in both metro areas has been falling since
2008, when it reached a record in each place. The 4.7 percent
drop in Silicon Valley during that period was three times larger
than the Washington region’s 1.5 percent fall.  ‘Shallower Recession’  The flow of federal dollars in and around the nation’s
capital helped the region weather the economic slump better than
most areas and is contributing to its recovery. The  unemployment
rate  in the Washington metro area in August was 6.1 percent,
compared with 10 percent in San Jose, according to Labor
Department figures. Nationally, joblessness was 9.1 percent in
September for a third straight month.  “The region did experience a shorter, shallower recession
than San Jose,” said Sara Kline, a  Washington  analyst at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,  Pennsylvania . “The
federal government stepped in to take efforts to dampen the
recession. It was focused to some extent in the D.C. area as
well, given the presence of federal workers there and
contractors. That insulated it from more of a downturn.”  Federal government spending for programs excluding Social
Security and Medicare in fiscal year 2011, which ended on Sept.
30, rose to $2.38 trillion from $2.3 trillion the previous year.  Lawyer Capital  Last year Washington also had the most lawyers per capita 
in the U.S. compared with the 50 states, with one for every 12 
city residents, according to figures from the  American Bar
Association  and the Census Bureau. In New York State the figure
was one out of every 123 residents, while in  California  the
ratio was one in 243.  Associate attorneys in the Washington area who have worked
between one and eight years had a median salary of $186,250,
compared with the national median for their peers of $123,521,
according to a survey by the Washington-based National
Association for Law Placement.  Lobbyists play a prominent role in the Washington economy.
In 2010 there were 12,964 registered lobbyists, with most
working in or around the nation’s capital, according to  figures 
compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-
based research group that tracks political spending. Spending on
lobbying efforts reached a record $3.51 billion last year, up
from $3.49 billion in 2009.  Contractor Central  The Washington suburbs are also home to government
contractors such as Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest defense company, and  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD) , the  Falls Church , Virginia-based maker of Abrams tanks
and Gulfstream business jets.  With about 5.6 million residents, the Washington region has
an aggregate household income of about $221.4 billion. The San
Jose area has about 1.8 million people and income of $67
billion, according to census figures gathered from the American
Community Survey. The annual survey polls about 3 million
American households to provide annual economic, demographic,
social and housing characteristics for the nation.  The Brownsville-Harlingen metro area in southeast  Texas 
along the border with  Mexico  had the lowest median household
income last year at $31,736.  Such income inequality is on display in Washington as well.
In the District of Columbia, almost 11 percent of the city’s
population qualifies as “very poor,” meaning they make less
than half the poverty rate, or about $11,025 a year for a family
of four and $5,415 for a single person. The same figure for San
Jose is about 6 percent, according to census figures.  “Even though we’ve got this very healthy group of
government employees and contractors, there’s still a lot of
people left behind,” said  Douglas Besharov , a professor at the
University of  Maryland ’s School of Public Policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frank Bass in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in Chicago at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  