-- 
Best of Europe Bonds Show No Repeat of 2008 as Output Grows: Poland Credit

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-10-20T15:54:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/best-of-europe-bonds-show-no-repeat-of-2008-as-output-grows-poland-credit.html
Better-than-forecast industrial
output growth in  Poland  is helping extend the rally that has
produced the biggest gains in bonds worldwide this quarter.  Production rose 7.7 percent in the 12 months to September,
Poland’s central statistics office said yesterday, beating the
median forecast of 5.2 percent from 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The increase surprised analysts after business
confidence fell the most in three years in Germany, Poland’s
biggest export market, and sent the extra yield investors demand
to hold 10-year Polish bonds over German bunds down seven basis
points yesterday to 370, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The last time Germany’s Ifo index slowed as much, Polish
output slumped 12 percent from May 2008 to April 2009 and its
yield spread over  Germany  rose 216 basis points to peak at 372
in October 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show. This time,
debt has been buoyed by domestic growth and pledges from re-
elected Prime Minister Donald Tusk to cut the budget gap from a
record. Polish debt returned 5.4 percent in dollar terms this
month, the most among 26 indices tracked by the European
Federation of Financial Analyst Societies and Bloomberg.  Poland “should come through better than other countries in
the region despite the German slowdown,” said Jens Thellesen,
who helps manage about $1.2 billion in emerging-market debt at
Jyske Invest in Silkeborg,  Denmark  and has an “overweight”
position on the zloty and is “market-weight” on zloty bonds.
“The Polish economy is influenced by events in Germany, but
it’s more closed than  Hungary ’s, for example.”  Beating Forecasts  Germany’s Ifo business climate index fell by 6 percent
during the third quarter, its biggest decline since a 12 percent
slide in the fourth quarter of 2008. Polish output growth beat
economist forecasts for a second month after expanding 8.1
percent in August, triple the median economist estimate of 2.7
percent on Bloomberg.  Poland, the only economy in the European Union to avoid a
recession through the global credit crisis, may grow 2.2 percent
in 2012, according to European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development forecasts. While the outlook is down from the bank’s
July projection of 3.5 percent growth, it is quadruple the
forecast of 0.5 percent for Hungary and 1.1 percent for
Slovakia.  Poland’s slowdown is likely to be “shallow and short,”
 Andrzej Bratkowski , a member of the monetary policy council,
said in an interview on Oct. 17.  Yield Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to hold Polish dollar-
denominated bonds over U.S. Treasuries yesterday fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 250, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. indexes show.  The cost to insure Polish debt against non-payment for five
years through credit-default swaps rose 6 basis points to 236,
paring this month’s decline to 60 basis points, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Polish default swaps cost 74 basis points less than the
average for countries in eastern Europe, the  Middle East  and
 Africa  included in Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index, compared
with a discount of 79 basis points a year ago.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The zloty traded 1.5 percent weaker against the euro at
4.4067 at 5:37 p.m. in Warsaw, paring its gains this month to
0.3 percent. The currency lost 10 percent to the euro in the
third quarter, the most among the 177 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, while falling 17 percent against the dollar last
quarter.  Australia, Hungary  The world-best 5.4 percent dollar-term return from Polish
bonds is followed by a 5 percent gain on Australian notes and a
3.2 percent return from Hungary and New Zealand debt, according
to data compiled by the European Federation of Financial Analyst
Societies and Bloomberg. Polish debt was the world’s third-worst
performer last quarter after  Greece  and Hungary with a decline
of 15.7 percent, based on the average for bonds maturing in one
year or more.  The EBRD’s forecast for Polish growth is below the
government’s 4 percent projection for this year and next. Any
slowdown will reduce budget revenue and make it difficult for
Tusk to meet his goal of cutting the  budget deficit  to 2.9
percent of gross domestic product next year from 5.6 percent in
2011, said  Paul McNamara , who helps manage $7 billion of
emerging-market debt at GAM Investment Management in  London .  “Poland’s in for a rough ride next year,” said McNamara,
whose holdings include Polish bonds. “The budget situation is
troublingly dependent on growth” and the target will be “very,
very difficult without new measures,” he said in a phone
interview.  Budget Finances  The  International Monetary Fund  said last month that Poland
is likely to show the most significant improvement in budget
finances of any country in eastern  Europe  next year.  “I don’t think anyone believes the Polish fiscal situation
is out of control,” said  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage $3.5
billion in emerging-market assets at Aviva Investors Ltd. in
London. “With a decent policy mix, Poland could still be a
reasonable outperformer. I can imagine us going overweight on
Polish bonds if the government comes up with a credible deficit
reduction plan.”  The bigger risk for Polish assets comes from Greece,
according to Thellesen at Jyske. Euro-area leaders assembled in
 Frankfurt  yesterday seeking to narrow divisions ahead of a
summit to solve the sovereign debt crisis, while banks lobbied
against forced recapitalization and deeper writedowns on Greek
debt.  “If the euro-zone talks don’t lead anywhere, that will
hurt Polish assets,” Thellesen said. “If Greece were to
default, we’d see a flight to safety that would hit Poland
badly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  