-- 
Best Playoff Series for Fox Goes Seven Games Even With No Yankees, Cubs

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-10-19T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/best-playoff-series-for-fox-goes-seven-games-even-with-no-yankees-cubs.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports is less
concerned with who’s playing in the World Series than how many
games they play.  There hasn’t been a seven-game World Series in nine
seasons. Since 1995, four-game sweeps have been the most common
outcome of baseball’s championship, which starts tonight in  St.
Louis .  For Fox, that’s more significant than the limited national
appeal of the Texas Rangers and St. Louis Cardinals, media
researcher  Brad Adgate  said. The Rangers and Cardinals ranked in
a Harris poll this year as the eighth and ninth most popular
Major League Baseball teams -- the New York Yankees topped the
list, followed by the  Boston Red Sox ,  Atlanta Braves  and  Chicago
Cubs .  Fox stands to make about $35 million in advertising for
each game over the minimum four, according to Adgate, research
director at New York-based  Horizon Media . He said a longer
series would make up in revenue and lost sales for what some
sports marketers say may be one to rival the least-watched ever.  “Philadelphia and  Tampa Bay  drew 13.6 million viewers in
2008, and I think this series could be along those lines unless
the games are really exciting and it goes to six or seven
games,” Adgate said in a telephone interview. “The length of
the series is so important because more games mean more
advertising units sold.”  Dallas  is the fifth-largest U.S. media market and St. Louis
is No. 21, according to Adgate. He said losing out on two major-
market teams cost baseball half of its  World Series  viewership,
as a matchup between the Yankees and  Los Angeles Dodgers  would
average around 25 million viewers.  Series No-Shows  The Yankees, in the No. 1 market, were eliminated in the
first round of the playoffs, while the Dodgers, in the No. 2
market, failed to make the postseason.  Fox Sports Media Group Vice Chairman Ed Goren said
storylines, compelling games and series length are as important
to the network as the market size or national following of the
participants. He declined to comment on the projected financial
and ratings boost that the network would receive with different
teams or a seven-game series.  “Sure, you’re going to get a higher rating with the  New
York Yankees  in the World Series, but that doesn’t mean you’re
walking away saying you won’t generate any business -- we
will,” Goren said in a telephone interview.  This is the first World Series in which the parent company
of both teams’ regional sports networks is airing the games.
News Corp. owns  Fox Sports Southwest , which carries Rangers
games during the regular season, and  Fox Sports Midwest , the
television home of the Cardinals.  Future Ads  Those regional sports networks benefit from a World Series
run because the postseason affords them the opportunity for more
commercial time on pre- and post-game shows, according to Steve Raab, president of  SNY , which shows the  New York Mets . The
biggest financial benefit for the regional networks will come
after the World Series, when advertisers purchase for the
following year at a raised rate.  “Your greatest benefit is the season you just had,
culminating in a World Series appearance and what that did for
your ratings,” Raab said.  If the Mets were to make a World Series, Raab said, SNY’s
playoff programming would generate an additional 5 percent of
the network’s baseball revenue, not including the boost in ad
sales for the following year. He declined to give specific
numbers.  A 30-second commercial on this World Series sold for about
$500,000, Adgate said. With roughly 70 spots per game -- even
more for extra innings or games with mid-inning pitching changes
-- that’s $35 million in sales for Fox each night, he said. A
30-second spot on the  Super Bowl , the National Football League
championship game that this year produced the most-watched show
in U.S. television history, goes for about $3.5 million.  Shorter Series  History doesn’t bode well for a long series. Baseball
hasn’t had a seven-game World Series since 2002, when the
Anaheim Angels beat the  San Francisco Giants . Two series since
have gone to six games, three to five and three to the minimum
four.  The Rangers and Cardinals have met just once, a three-game
interleague series in  Texas  during the 2004 season.  “Fox will do fine as long as it’s not four games and
out,” said Bill Carroll, director of programming for the New
York-based  Katz Television Group .  “When it crosses the six-
game threshold, that’s when interest really increases and
there’s more opportunity to run advertisements.”  Ratings Down  Television ratings for the National League Championship
Series on TBS between the Cardinals and Milwaukee Brewers were
43 percent lower than the network’s ratings for last year’s
American League Championship Series between the Yankees and
Rangers. Carroll said he would recommend World Series
advertising to clients regardless of which teams participated
because baseball delivers a desired demographic.  “Advertisers looking to reach a specific male audience are
going to look at event sports as a specific opportunity,”
Carroll said.  The Rangers are the first AL team in 10 years to reach
consecutive World Series and have built on the national
exposure, Goren said. The Cardinals are led by three-time NL
Most Valuable Player  Albert Pujols  and have generated increased
interest since qualifying for the playoffs on the season’s final
day.  Goren has another reason for optimism: Cardinals manager
 Tony La Russa  made 12 mid-inning NLCS pitching changes, which
the TV executive sees as a commercial break.  “And that starts the cash register,” Goren said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  