-- 
BHP Said to Be in Takeover Talks With Iron-Ore Miner Ferrous

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-10-19T15:26:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/bhp-said-to-be-discussing-takeover-of-brazilian-iron-ore-producer-ferrous.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, is in talks to buy Brazilian iron-ore
producer Ferrous Resources Ltd., said two people with knowledge
of the matter.  No final decision has been made on a transaction, which
could fetch about 2 billion pounds ($3.2 billion), said one of
the people, who declined to be identified as the process is
private. Discussions have taken place in the past few weeks in
 Melbourne , where BHP is based, after negotiations with a Chinese
suitor broke down, one of the people said.  BHP is examining whether to build a 3.7 billion-reais ($2.1
billion) iron-ore project in Brazil, the second-largest exporter
of the material, which may complement Ferrous’s operations, one
of the people said. BHP and competitor Rio Tinto Group are
tapping new sources of production to feed surging demand in
developing nations such as  China , the biggest user of  iron ore .  The Sunday Times  first reported the possible bid on Oct.
16, without citing anyone. Fiona Martin, a Melbourne-based
spokeswoman for BHP, declined to comment.  Ferrous was in talks with potential strategic investors and
lenders to help fund a $4 billion expansion, two people with
knowledge of the matter said in March. The closely held company,
backed by New York-based hedge fund Harbinger Capital Partners
LLC, had discussions with mining companies and steelmakers in
China,  Japan ,  Korea  and Brazil, the people said then.  Shelved IPO  Harbinger, founded by billionaire  Philip Falcone , held more
than 26 percent of Ferrous as of March. The iron-ore company
shelved plans for a $400 million  London  initial public offering
last June, the second time a sale was derailed.  An official at an external public relations firm working
for Belo Horizonte-based Ferrous said today that the company has
been looking for a strategic partner for some time. Ferrous
won’t comment on speculation, the official said, declining to be
identified citing corporate policy.  Talks with Evergreen Industries Holding Group, chaired by
Simon Liang, broke down in July, one of the people said. Calls
to Evergreen’s office outside regular business hours weren’t
returned. Ferrous is seeking to produce as much as 25 million
metric tons of iron ore annually from 2014 following an
expansion, the company has said.  BHP,  Brazil   BHP is studying development of a 20 million-ton-a-year iron
ore concentrate operation in southeastern Brazil from 2017, the
government of Minas Gerais state said on its website, citing a
letter of intent signed by BHP. The company is also a partner in
the Samarco venture in the country with Brazil’s Vale SA.  The price of ore with 62 percent iron content delivered to
the Chinese port of Tianjin declined 1.7 percent to $147.70 a
ton today, its lowest since Oct. 8, according to The Steel
Index. The price has dropped 14 percent this month.  BHP and Rio have signaled they’re confident that longer-
term demand will hold up even as economic growth slows. Rio, the
world’s second-largest iron ore shipper, retained its forecast
last month that consumption of aluminum, copper and iron ore may
double over the next 15 to 20 years.  BHP may spend $25 billion enlarging iron-ore operations as
part of its global investment plan announced in February,
Citigroup Inc. said Feb. 16. Iron ore contributed 37 percent of
the company’s $37.1 billion in earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization for the year through June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net . 