-- 
BlackRock Seeks Ban on ETF Label for Funds Using Derivatives

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-10-19T18:28:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/blackrock-to-seek-ban-on-etf-label-for-funds-using-derivatives.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
provider of exchange-traded funds, urged U.S. lawmakers to bar
products that rely on derivatives from being marketed as ETFs to
avoid confusion with their traditional counterparts.  BlackRock Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink compared ETFs to the market for mortgage-backed bonds,
which began with a simple product and evolved into complex
variations with risks that investors didn’t understand.  “That was a failure of the mortgage market,” Fink said
during a conference call with investors following the release of
the New York-based company’s third-quarter earnings. “We need
to be very assertive as a firm and outspoken that we will not
allow, at BlackRock, the lack of disclosure on these products.”  ETFs, which hold $1.43 trillion in assets worldwide, have
drawn scrutiny from regulators since 2009. The Securities and
Exchange Commission has examined whether ETFs contributed to
equity-market volatility in August and the intraday plunge on
May 6, 2010. European ETFs that generate returns through
derivatives add a layer of complexity and risk to financial
markets, the  International Monetary Fund  said in April.  Most ETFs track an index by holding a basket of securities.
Unlike mutual funds, which can be purchased or sold once a day,
they trade throughout the day on an exchange, like stocks.  Some complex and risky funds “should not be labeled
ETFs,” BlackRock’s  Noel Archard  told a Senate subcommittee in
 Washington  today, according to a copy of his prepared remarks.  Promoting ‘Own Agenda’  BlackRock’s research doesn’t suggest that heightened stock-
market volatility over the past year was spurred by ETFs,
according to Archard’s remarks. Still, the firm believes greater
regulation of ETFs is required to make sure investors have a
clearer understanding of risks and costs involved in investing
in the products.  Michael Sapir, chairman and CEO of ProShare Advisors LLC in
Bethesda,  Maryland , the largest provider of leveraged and
inverse ETFs, criticized BlackRock in a statement today for
using the hearing “as a platform to promote its own agenda.”  Archard, head of product development at iShares, testified
before the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban
Affairs’ subcommittee on securities, insurance and investment.
Eileen Rominger, head of the SEC’s division of  investment
management , and  Harold Bradley , chief investment officer at the
nonprofit Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation in  Kansas City ,
 Missouri , also spoke at the hearing.  Leveraged, Inverse ETFs  Funds that rely on derivatives include commodity-based ETFs
that own futures contracts instead of the physical product, as
well as leveraged and inverse ETFs. The majority of U.S.-
registered ETFs hold all or most of the underlying securities
that make up the index they seek to track.  The SEC said in March 2010 it wouldn’t approve new ETFs
that make substantial use of derivatives. That followed a
warning to investors and brokers in 2009 that leveraged and
inverse ETFs weren’t appropriate for long-term investors who may
misunderstand how they work.  From Dec. 1, 2008, to April 30, 2009, one ETF seeking to
deliver three times the daily return of its index declined 53
percent while the index gained 8 percent, according to the SEC.  Leveraged ETFs use total return swaps to multiply daily
index returns, as do inverse funds designed to move in the
opposite direction of their benchmark. Derivatives, including
swaps, are financial contracts tied to an underlying stock,
bond, index or event, such as the default of a company.  Proposed Labels  Because of compounding, the returns of leveraged and
inverse ETFs can veer from their targeted return if the fund is
held for multiple days without rebalancing. Leveraged and
inverse products in the U.S. held about $33 billion in assets as
of Sept. 30, according to data compiled by State Street Corp.  BlackRock, which broke into the business with its
acquisition of  Barclays Global Investors  and its iShares unit in
2009, manages about $538 billion in ETF assets and accounts for
about 38 percent of the market worldwide. The firm doesn’t offer
any leveraged or inverse ETFs.  The term “ETF” isn’t sufficient to encompass the range of
products that subject investors to varying levels of risk,
according to Archard’s testimony. He proposed that “exchange-
traded product” be used to describe all strategies that trade
on an exchange, with only the simplest products still classified
as ETFs. Any fund backed by the credit of their issuers should
be called an “exchange-traded note,” one that holds physical
commodities should be called an “exchange-traded commodity”
and any others should be labeled an “exchange-traded
instrument,” according to BlackRock.  ‘Byzantine’ Classifications  ProShares’ Sapir called BlackRock’s proposed
classifications a “side show” and a “distraction that’s not
going to serve investors.”  “Every fund sponsor should be focused on investor
education and not on some Byzantine classification system,” he
said in an interview.  ProShare’s leveraged and inverse funds manage $25.9
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bradley of the Kauffman Foundation said ETFs contributed
significantly to market volatility and to the increased
correlation between the movement of indexes and individual
stocks. He also said he believed volatility caused by ETFs
discouraged companies from publicly listing.  “ETFs carry big risks when they are carried too far, and
that is where we are today,” Bradley said.  The SEC should adopt a consistent set of ETF rules that
tightens disclosure requirements for more complex products,
Archard said. Like mutual funds, the majority of ETFs are
currently regulated under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
The SEC provides what is known as “exemptive relief” to ETF
providers that want to open the products in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  