-- 
BlackRock Third-Quarter Net Income Climbs 8% on Management Advisory Fees

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-10-19T11:41:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/blackrock-third-quarter-net-income-climbs-8-on-management-advisory-fees.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
asset manager, said third-quarter profit increased 8 percent on
higher fees for managing client assets and advising institutions
on hard-to-value securities.  Net income increased to $595 million, or $3.23 a share,
from $551 million, or $2.83, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. Excluding certain one-time
items, BlackRock earned $2.83 a share, compared with the $2.66
average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  BlackRock said assets fell 8.6 percent from the prior
quarter to $3.35 trillion, driven by $303.9 billion in market
declines and $10.2 billion in net withdrawals. Chief Executive
Officer Laurence D. Fink, 58, is trying to expand products in
“high-fee businesses” such as hedge fund-like mutual funds,
commodities and private-equity strategies as investors are
reassessing their investments because of macroeconomic
uncertainty.  “BlackRock exceeded expectations despite a challenging
quarter for the markets,” Macrae Sykes, an analyst at Rye, New
York-based Gabelli & Co., said in an interview. “The flows show
strength in their ETF business.”  Sykes had expected BlackRock to earn $2.64 per share on an
adjusted basis.  ‘Volatile Markets’  Earnings were curbed by an 18 percent slump in global
stocks during the quarter, as European leaders clashed over how
to assist  Greece  and American lawmakers struggled to agree on
raising the federal government’s debt limit.  “With the persistence of volatile markets, low  interest
rates  and the low-growth environment, an increasing number of
investors are re-evaluating their investment and asset-
allocation decisions,” Fink said in today’s statement.  Investment advisory fees rose 8.6 percent from the prior
year to $1.95 billion, while revenue at the BlackRock Solutions
unit, which advises governments and institutions on troubled
assets, rose 16 percent to $117 million. Performance fees, which
are tied to returns earned by funds, fell 20 percent to $91
million.  Investors removed $8 billion from BlackRock’s active stock
funds during the quarter, while adding $9.8 billion to index-
tracking products including the firm’s iShares exchange-traded
funds. Clients pulled $14 billion from BlackRock’s fixed-income
funds driven by a single withdrawal of $9.1 billion from an
institutional investor, which BlackRock said had “minimal
revenue impact.”  Stock Fund Withdrawals  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 14 percent during
the three months that ended Sept. 30, its biggest quarterly drop
since the end of 2008. The benchmark equity index fell to a low
for the period of 1,119.46 on Aug. 8 after S&P cut the U.S.
long-term debt rating.  Robert Lee, an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. in
 New York , cut his average earnings estimate for asset-management
firms by 6 percent for the quarter as declining stock markets
eroded assets and investors withdrew money from stocks amid
market volatility.  “Reflecting the turmoil in equity markets, equity fund
flows remained weak, driven mainly by domestic equity fund
outflows,” Lee wrote in an Oct. 10 note to clients.  BlackRock, which acquired  Barclays Global Investors  in
December 2009 to add exchange-traded funds to the actively run
stock and bond funds it oversees, said in July that redemptions
related to its takeover of Barclays unit had come to an end.  Series of Acquisitions  Fink, who co-founded BlackRock in 1988, has built the firm
through a series of acquisitions, including the 2006 purchase of
Merrill Lynch & Co.’s investment unit. BlackRock acquired the
hedge fund-of-funds business of Quellos Group LLC in 2008. The
company this year has expanded the alternatives division, which
manages  hedge funds , real estate funds and private-equity
strategies.  BlackRock announced results before the start of regular
U.S. trading. The shares have lost 18 percent this year,
compared with the 24 percent decline in the 19-member S&P index
of asset managers and custody banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  