-- 
BMW Expects to Keep U.S. Luxury Sales Lead Going Into 2012

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-10-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/bmw-doesn-t-expect-to-lose-u-s-luxury-market-share-lead-going-into-2012.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , poised
to become the best-selling luxury brand in the U.S. this year,
can keep the spot in 2012’s first quarter as it introduces its
redesigned 3-Series sedan.  “We have a window to stay No. 1 in the first quarter,”
Ludwig Willisch, who took over BMW’s North American operations
Oct. 1, said in an interview yesterday in  New York . “Our model
lineup is broad. We have a lot of opportunities to get there.”  The BMW brand and Mercedes have been fighting to take the
luxury sales crown away from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus, which
has been the annual leader for 11 years. BMW ended September in
the lead with 177,679 sales while Mercedes is in second place
with 170,058. Those results exclude Daimler’s Sprinter vans and
Smart cars and BMW’s Mini brand, which aren’t  luxury vehicles .  Willisch’s remarks run counter to those of his predecessor,
 Jim O’Donnell , who said in an August interview that BMW will
probably be outsold by  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz early next
year before the redesigned 3-Series hits U.S. dealerships.  Updated Mercedes C-Class models went on sale last quarter
while BMW is still selling older 3-Series compacts. The 3-Series
is slated to hit U.S. showrooms in March or April, BMW says.  “In the first quarter of next year, I would say Mercedes”
will be No. 1, O’Donnell said in August. “Mercedes going into
2012 in the first quarter will be in a strong position. Over the
course of the year, we still should be ahead of Mercedes.”  Not Conceding  BMW isn’t conceding 2012’s first quarter, Willisch said.  “We’re not going to ask our customers to buy another
brand,” he said yesterday in an interview at BMW’s dealership
on 57th Street in  Manhattan .  Lexus, in third place, saw sales fall 16 percent this year
to 135,647, hindered by a lack of inventory after the March
earthquake and tsunami in Japan reduced output of vehicles.  BMW’s sales success over the past year has been driven by
the redesigned 5-Series sedan and X3 sport-utility vehicle.  The 3-Series relies on leasing, and sales are slowing as it
nears the end of its product cycle, said  Jesse Toprak , an
industry analyst with TrueCar.com, a  Santa Monica , California-
based website that tracks auto sales.  “From the product-lifecycle perspective in terms of
leases, it’s a little long-in-tooth,” he said.  U.S. sales of the 3-Series sedan, coupe, convertible and
wagon fell 3.9 percent this year through September compared with
last year, according to researcher Autodata Corp. The compact
line accounts for more than half of the brand’s U.S. car
deliveries.  The BMW-Mercedes competition is playing out worldwide. BMW
is the global leader followed by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand and
Mercedes. Daimler’s target is to be the top luxury seller
globally by 2020.  Willisch, 55, comes to BMW’s Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey,
offices from a position as the head of European sales. He has
also run BMW’s M performance brand and led sales units in
Germany, Japan and Sweden.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in New York at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  