-- 
BNY Mellon Earnings Increase 4.7% on Rising Fees From Investments

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-10-19T20:17:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/bny-mellon-earnings-increase-4-7-on-rising-fees-from-investments.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the
world’s largest custody bank, said third-quarter earnings rose
4.7 percent on higher asset fees and said it will fight lawsuits
over foreign-currency trading seeking “huge sums.”  Net income rose to $651 million, or 53 cents a share, from
$622 million, or 51 cents, a year earlier, BNY Mellon said today
in a statement. Analysts had expected the New York-based company
to earn 52 cents a share, according to the average of 11
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “The results were quite decent in light of the conditions
in the  capital markets  in the third quarter,”  Gerard Cassidy ,
an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , said in a telephone
interview from  Portland ,  Maine .  The  Federal Reserve ’s decision to keep its main lending
rate close to zero affects BNY Mellon by eroding margins on
lending and forcing the bank to waive fees on money-market
funds. The 14 percent decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
during the third quarter reduced the revenue the bank can
collect on assets it manages and services for investors such as
pension funds and  hedge funds .  BNY Mellon, which has been sued over the way it charges
clients for foreign-exchange trading, defended its practices in
a conference call today and said it will contest the
allegations.  “We will not be coerced into paying huge sums,” said
Chief Executive Officer Gerald L. Hassell.  BNY Mellon fell 1.2 percent to $19.54 at the close in  New
York . The stock has fallen 35 percent this year, compared with
the 26 percent decline by the 19-company Standard & Poor’s asset
managers and custody bank index.  Foreign-Exchange Revenue  Assets under custody and administration rose to $25.9
trillion from the same quarter a year ago, a 6 percent increase
the bank attributed to new business. Assets under management
rose 5 percent to $1.2 trillion.  Asset levels in both categories fell from the end of the
second quarter because of lower stock prices, the bank said in
its statement.  Foreign-exchange revenue in the third quarter totaled $221
million, up 38 percent from a year ago as a result of increased
volatility. The bank’s net interest margin, the difference
between what it pays on deposits and receives on loans and
investments, narrowed to 1.3 percent from 1.7 percent a year
earlier.  The decline in net interest margin was exacerbated by
institutional investors, nervous about the fight over raising
the debt ceiling in the U.S., depositing more cash with the bank
early in the third quarter, Hassell said. The surge in “hot
money” has subsided, he said.  Kelly’s Departure  Hassell, 60, assumed the top job after Robert P. Kelly
stepped down in “mutual agreement,” with the board. Kelly left
“due to differences in approach to managing the company,” the
bank said in a statement at the time, without explaining what
those differences were.  In a conference call with investors in July, Kelly said
rising costs for pensions, compensation, health care and legal
bills were hurting profits. He said the bank would move people
to cheaper locations, consolidate its real estate holdings and
cut its procurement budget. The bank said Aug. 10 it planned to
cut 1,500 jobs or 3 percent of the workforce.  “The firm’s focus under the new leadership could shift to
more aggressive cost management and business rationalization,”
Alexander Blostein, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
New York, wrote in a note to clients on Aug. 31.  Hassell said today the bank would speak more about cost
savings when it addresses analysts in November.  BNY Mellon  was hit with separate lawsuits on Oct. 4 by the
U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Manhattan  and New York Attorney
General  Eric Schneiderman  over the way it charges certain
customers for handling foreign-exchange transactions.  State Street  The bank “has engaged in a multipronged campaign of
deception,” the state and the City of New York said in their
complaint. The  attorneys general  in Florida and  Virginia  sued
the bank in August over the same issue.  “We feel very strongly that the lawsuits against us are
unwarranted and flat out wrong on the facts and the law,”
Hassell said today on the conference call. The bank has not lost
clients because of the suits and trading volumes in standing
instruction, the practice that the litigation targets, climbed
over the past two years, Hassell said.  State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-largest custody bank, was
criticized in an Oct. 16 letter by billionaire investor  Nelson
Peltz , who said the bank’s management had done a poor job
reducing costs and increasing returns for shareholders. Peltz’s
Trian Fund Management LP owns about 3.3 percent of Boston-based
State Street shares, the firm said.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors. BNY Mellon and State
Street also manage investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  