-- 
Boca Juniors Abandons Plan for Carlos Tevez Bid, Mirror Reports: Roundup

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-10-19T08:52:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/boca-juniors-abandons-plan-for-carlos-tevez-bid-mirror-reports-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Boca Priced Out  Boca Juniors has given up on luring back  Carlos Tevez  to
Argentina because it can’t afford his 250,000-pound ($394,000)
weekly wages, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Juventus, AC Milan and Brazil’s Corinthians are preparing
bids for the striker, the Mirror said.  Newcastle Striker  Newcastle is close to sealing a deal to sign Sochaux
striker Modibo Maiga for 7 million pounds,  the Sun  reported.  The agreement, which collapsed on transfer deadline day,
will be completed when player trading resumes in January,
according to the Sun.  Galaxy vs PSG  Former England captain  David Beckham  has received offers
from 15 clubs, but will only consider signing a new contract
with the  Los Angeles Galaxy  or joining Paris Saint-Germain,  the
Mirror  said.  Beckham, 36, whose contract expires at the end of the year,
is wanted by clubs in the Premier League,  Brazil  and the Middle
East, the newspaper added.  Abidal Target  Barcelona’s  Eric Abidal  says Manchester City wants to sign
him, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The 32-year-old France defender returned to play for the
European champion after cancer treatment last season, although
his contract expires next year, the Mail said.  Ferguson Return  Former striker Duncan Ferguson has returned to Everton to
coach at its youth academy,  the Independent  reported.  Ferguson, 39, “misses the smell of football a wee bit,”
five years after he retired from playing, the newspaper quoted
Everton coach as David Moyes saying.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  