-- 
BOE Voted Unanimously to Expand Stimulus to $380 Billion on Slow Economy

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-10-19T09:52:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/boe-decision-to-boost-scale-of-bond-purchases-was-unanimous-minutes-show.html
Bank of England  officials voted
unanimously to expand the size of their asset-purchase program
as strains related to  Europe ’s debt crisis created a
“compelling” case to add to stimulus.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor
 Mervyn King  raised the ceiling for so-called quantitative easing
to 275 billion pounds ($434 billion) from 200 billion pounds on
Oct. 6. All nine also voted to keep the key  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent, according to the minutes of the
decision published in  London  today.  Policy makers debated expanding QE by between 50 billion
pounds and 100 billion pounds and said they expect the new round
of stimulus to have a similar impact to asset purchases in 2009.
They said the program could be “adjusted” if its impact
differed from the committee’s expectations.  “Heightened awareness of the vulnerabilities associated
with the indebtedness of several euro-area governments and banks
had led to a further deterioration in demand prospects,” the
minutes said. “While the worst risks had not crystallized, the
threat of them doing so had resulted in severe strains in bank-
funding markets.”  Bonds remained lower after the minutes were published, with
the 10-year gilt yield up 7 basis points at 2.50 percent. The
pound rose against the dollar and traded at $1.5785 as of 10:27
a.m. in London, up 0.5 percent from yesterday.  ‘Downside Risks’  U.K. policy makers considered delaying an expansion of
stimulus until November when they will have new quarterly
forecasts. Still, they decided that “any advantage to delay was
thought insufficient to outweigh the arguments for acting
immediately.”  The  European Central Bank  has also responded to pressure on
banks, announcing this month it will offer additional longer-
term liquidity and restart covered-bond purchases. The  Federal
Reserve  reacted to the economic slowdown last month by adopting
so-called Operation Twist, replacing $400 billion of Treasuries
in its portfolio with longer-term securities.  In a speech late yesterday, King said that “for the time
being, a significant degree of policy stimulus is appropriate to
support demand.” He also criticized global authorities for
failing to deal with underlying imbalances and sovereign debt
and said “time is running out.” European leaders are due to
meet Oct. 23 in Brussels to discuss the region’s debt crisis.  No Time  The MPC minutes also said that while there was
“considerable uncertainty” on the scale of stimulus needed,
some members said the “substantial downside risks pointed to
injecting a larger monetary stimulus than otherwise in order to
place to U.K. economy in a stronger position were those risks to
materialize.”  The minutes come a day after data showed inflation
quickened to 5.2 percent in September, more than double the
central bank’s 2 percent target. The bank said inflation is
likely to fall back “sharply” in 2012.  Recent indicators suggest “that the underlying rate of
growth had moderated and would be close to zero in the fourth
quarter,” the minutes said. Ernst & Young LLP’s ITEM Club cut
its 2011 U.K. growth forecast to 0.9 percent this month, and
said the second bout of QE may not be enough.  The “increased downside risks” to growth make it “more
likely that inflation would undershoot the target in the medium
term, without further monetary stimulus,” the minutes said.  In their debate on the size of stimulus needed, the MPC
agreed that differences in the impact of QE within the range
under considerations were “likely to be outweighed by the
degree of uncertainty about the outlook for inflation.”  The minutes “reveal a marked escalation of concern within
the committee,”  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global
Insight said in an e-mailed note. The fact that officials
“considered a 100 billion-pound helping reinforces belief that
they will be prepared to dish out more stimulus if the economy
fails to rally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  