-- 
BofA, JPMorgan Say Refund Demands Mount for Post-Bubble Loans

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-10-19T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/bofa-jpmorgan-say-refund-demands-mount-for-post-bubble-loans.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  reported more demands from investors to repurchase
faulty mortgages made after 2008, when the banks said they
upgraded their standards to curb defaults.  Claims from investors for loans originated in 2009 or later
more than tripled to $153 million from a year earlier for New
York-based JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, and almost
tripled to $164 million for Bank of America, according to their
third-quarter reports. The firms also said claims increased for
loans made in 2005, before the housing bubble peaked.  The demands may signal that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the
government-back mortgage finance companies, are becoming more
aggressive in their quest for refunds as bad home loans spread
to more recent years. Regulators have blamed record defaults and
foreclosures on lax underwriting from 2004 through most of 2008.
Lenders have said they’ve tightened standards since then.  “This is really surprising,” said Chris Gamaitoni, a
mortgage and banking analyst at Compass Point Research and
Trading LLC, adding that banks have been telling investors that
delinquencies weren’t as bad for loans originated after the
bubble years. “Maybe the banks didn’t really tighten until
2010,” Gamaitoni said.  The five largest mortgage lenders have absorbed more than
$66 billion of costs tied to repurchases, litigation,
foreclosure problems and other errors on faulty mortgages since
2007. Investors who buy the loans are entitled to ask for
refunds or compensation if they find missing or inaccurate data
on home values or the borrower’s income.  Biggest Claims    Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac have been among the biggest
claimants, while  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
has suffered the most damage, committing about $40 billion for
refunds, litigation and foreclosures, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Bank of America reported repurchase demands for post-2008
loans jumped to $164 million in the third quarter from $158
million in the second and $56 million a year earlier. Repurchase
demands on its 2005 loans declined from $957 million in the
fourth quarter of last year to $431 million in the second
quarter, then rose to $668 million in the third quarter.  “Some of this is simply driven by the ‘seasoning’ of claim
volume as time passes, for the post-2008 volumes, and not an
indication of underwriting,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of
America spokesman. “Keep in mind the numbers are still at
relatively low levels and are not necessarily going to result in
a repurchase.”  BofA’s Reaction  In its 2010 annual financial report, Bank of America said
changes made in operations and underwriting “reduced our
exposure after 2008.”  Repurchase requests and resolutions involving Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac have “become increasingly inconsistent with our
interpretation of our contractual obligations,” Bank of America
said yesterday in a slide presentation accompanying its third-
quarter earnings report.  Chief Financial Officer  Bruce Thompson  told reporters on a
conference call the bank has seen “some stuff come over the
wall that’s older than what we historically have seen.”  JPMorgan said it received demands in the third quarter for
$153 million of faulty mortgages made after 2008, up from $89
million in the second quarter and $46 million in the third
quarter of last year. For the 2005 vintage, repurchase demands
rose to $200 million in the third quarter from $67 million a
year earlier.  Credit Performance  The bank’s annual report said that demands against loans
issued before 2005 and after 2008 hadn’t been significant due to
“the comparatively favorable credit performance of these
vintages and to the enhanced underwriting and loan-qualification
standards implemented progressively during 2007 and 2008.”
 Thomas Kelly , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the nation’s biggest home lender, didn’t
disclose year-by-year data. The San Francisco-based company said
in its third-quarter report that repurchase demands on loans
made from 2006 through 2008 rose due to requests from Fannie Mae
and that “newer vintage demands continued to emerge.”  Ancel Martinez, a Wells Fargo spokesman, declined to
comment on whether the statement signals an increase in demands.  The housing-finance companies have increased repurchase
demands on loans that are still current as well as those in
default, said  Guy Cecala , publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance,
a trade publication.  Taxpayer Interest  “That is very, very unusual,” Cecala said. “My
understanding is that the biggest reason for the demands on the
performing loans is problems with the appraisals.”  Government-run housing-finance companies, which were bailed
out and seized during the financial crisis, have said they’re
acting to protect taxpayers.  “ Freddie Mac ’s focus on loan quality is more important
than ever since we are in conservatorship, and taxpayers
shouldn’t have to pay for losses related to the sale of bad
loans to Freddie Mac,” said Douglas Duvall, a spokesman for the
McLean, Virginia-based firm.  Fannie Mae defended its practice of seeking the repurchase
of performing loans as well as those in default.  “All lenders agree to sell us loans that meet our
requirements,”  Amy Bonitatibus , a spokeswoman for Washington-
based Fannie Mae, said in an e-mailed statement. “When a lender
fails to comply with this obligation, whether a loan is
performing or not, we will pursue repurchase or other options.”  More Rigorous Reviews  Last month the inspector general for the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency , the regulator of and conservator for Freddie Mac
and Fannie Mae, criticized Freddie Mac for agreeing to a
settlement of repurchase claims earlier this year with Bank of
America without having thoroughly sampled older mortgages for
faults. The inspector general, Steve Linick, encouraged the
housing companies to conduct more rigorous reviews and increase
recoveries for taxpayers.  “The level of fear around the lenders I talk to about
getting these loans right is just unbelievable,” said Christine
Clifford, vice president of Access Mortgage Research &
Consulting Inc. in Columbia,  Maryland . “There were so many
mistakes made that we’re swinging from the extreme of not
dotting any I’s or crossing any T’s to having eight people check
every item.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Sterngold in  New York  at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  