-- 
BofA $8.5 Billion Mortgage Securities Accord to Be Reviewed by U.S. Court

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-10-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/bofa-8-5-billion-mortgage-securities-accord-to-be-reviewed-by-u-s-court.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s proposed
$8.5 billion settlement with mortgage-bond investors must be
considered in federal court and not in  New York  state court
where it was first filed, a U.S. judge said.  “The settlement agreement at issue here implicates core
federal interests in the integrity of nationally chartered banks
and the vitality of the national securities markets,” U.S.
District Judge William Pauley in Manhattan said in a decision
filed yesterday. “A controversy touching on these paramount
federal interests should proceed in federal court.”  The proposed agreement would settle claims from investors
in Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage bonds and is a move by
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America to resolve
liabilities tied to its 2008 purchase of the home lender. The
deal was reached with an institutional investor group that
includes  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment Management Co.
and would apply to 530 mortgage-securitization trusts.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the trustee for the
mortgage-bond trusts, filed the settlement in state court and
planned to seek approval at a November hearing. Under the state
proceeding, approval would bind investors outside the group that
negotiated the agreement.  ‘Garden Variety’  Bank of New York filed the case as an Article 77
proceeding, which Pauley said has been used in the past for
“garden variety matters” of trust administration. Bank of New
York is seeking “to dispose of billions of dollars of toxic
mortgage claims through an arcane summary procedure in state
court,” he wrote.  Kevin Heine, a Bank of New York spokesman, declined to
comment on the ruling. The bank had asked Pauley to return the
case to state court after it had been moved to federal court.
 Kathy Patrick , a lawyer for the institutional investor group
that negotiated the agreement, didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment on it yesterday.  The proposed settlement agreement has been criticized by
some investors in the bonds, including  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , which said in a court filing that Bank of America is
“drastically underpaying on its liability.” Other investors
have filed objections to the agreement, saying they need more
information to evaluate it.  ‘Serious Concerns’  “We believe there are compelling reasons why the agreement
should receive judicial approval in the court with appropriate
jurisdiction,” Bank of America spokesman Lawrence Grayson said
in an e-mailed statement when asked to comment on the ruling.  One investor group, Walnut Place LLC and related entities,
moved the case to federal court in August. They said in a court
filing that they have “serious concerns about the adequacy of
the settlement and conflicts of interests of the parties that
negotiated it.” Investor claims “are worth many times” more
than $8.5 billion, they said.  Owen Cyrulnik , a lawyer for the Walnut Place entities,
declined to comment after a Sept. 21 court hearing about why
they wanted the case in federal court. In court papers, they
said Bank of New York filed the Article 77 proceeding, to
“cherry-pick” the benefits of class-action settlements and
“cast aside the aspects that it finds inconvenient,” mainly
the right of investors to opt out.  David J. Grais, a lawyer for Walnut Place, declined to
comment.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-5988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 