-- 
Brazil Retreat From Inflation-Taming Formula Leads Investors to Seek Hedge

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-10-19T02:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/brazil-retreat-from-inflation-taming-formula-leads-investors-to-seek-hedge.html
Brazilian officials are turning away
from a 15-year old formula for success as worldwide financial
storms erode faith in three core policies that ended decades of
economic crisis, according to former policy makers and analysts
who lived through the turmoil.  The so-called tripod of  inflation targeting , low budget
deficits and a floating  exchange rate  has supported the longest
period of growth in Latin America’s biggest economy since the
1970s, helping to lift millions out of poverty and winning
 Brazil  its first-ever investment grade rating.  While President Dilma Rousseff’s government says it still
adheres to the three policies, its actions contradict this, said
Edmar Bacha, an architect of the Real Plan in 1994 that tamed
hyperinflation. The central bank -- which may cut  interest rates 
again today -- is tolerating faster price increases as it lowers
rates with inflation at a six-year high, Bacha said. Spending
pledges are putting at risk budget goals, while efforts to curb
currency gains are protecting uncompetitive industries, he said.  “It’s not a rupture, the way you have in Argentina or
 Venezuela ,” said Bacha, a member of the opposition Social
Democracy Party, referring to nations with policies unfriendly
to investors and where inflation is in excess of 20 percent.
“It’s more like a bend than a break up to now.”  Investors in Brazil fled to inflation-protected assets
after the central bank on Aug. 31 cut the benchmark interest
rate by a half-point. The decision surprised all 62 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg who expected bank President Alexandre Tombini to leave the rate unchanged for a sixth straight meeting
as inflation, which surpassed the 6.5 percent upper limit of the
bank’s target range in April, continued to accelerate.  Inflation Expectations  Inflation expectations, as reflected in the yield gap
between fixed-rated bonds and those linked to the benchmark IPCA
price index, rose to 6.22 percentage points from 5.86 points on
Aug. 31. Inflation expectations for Mexico and  Chile  declined
over the same period.  Rousseff cheered on policy makers after the rate cut,
telling a group of business leaders last month that Brazil can’t
miss the opportunity provided by the European debt crisis and
global slowdown to lower borrowing costs that are the highest in
the Group of 20 nations.  At today’s meeting, policy makers are expected to cut the
Selic another half-point to 11.50 percent, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 66 analysts.  ‘Dangerous Bet’  The central bank cited a “substantial deterioration” in
the world economy as the reason for its rate cut, adding that
“moderate adjustments” to the Selic won’t compromise its goal
of bringing down inflation to 4.5 percent in 2012. Economists
forecast it will run faster than that until 2014 and expect the
government to miss its target this year for the first time since
2003, according to an Oct. 14 central bank survey.  The policy of relying on a global meltdown to ease price
pressures is a “dangerous bet,” Bacha said in a telephone
interview from  Rio de Janeiro .  “If there is no disaster abroad, the inflationary
situation in Brazil is very worrisome given our past,” said
Bacha, who also served as president of Brazil’s state
development bank.  Brazil had accumulated inflation of 13.3 trillion percent
and used five different currencies in the 15 years before the
Real Plan, according to “Brazilian Saga,” a best-selling book
published in May by journalist Miriam Leitao about the country’s
recent economic past. The years of stability since have led
Brazilians to forget the wage freezes and confiscation of
savings that once tormented families, Leitao wrote.  ‘Responsible’ Rate Cuts  Press officials at the  Finance Ministry  and the central
bank declined to comment in e-mails sent to Bloomberg News
asking whether Brazil was backsliding on its low inflation
commitments. Rousseff in a Sept. 30 speech said government
efforts to contain spending this year are creating space to
begin a “cautious” and “responsible” cycle of rate cuts.  Brazil’s inflation-targeting system, which dates from 1999,
has been weakened by the central bank’s pursuit of other goals,
such as maintaining growth and managing the exchange rate, said
 Alberto Ramos , a senior Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in  New York .  “The central bank became less predictable,” Ramos said in
a telephone interview. “Because it added other objectives, it
seems that the inflation target is now a soft one.”  Brazilian assets have underperformed their emerging market
peers amid the global financial turmoil. The benchmark Bovespa
stock index has fallen 21 percent this year, more than stocks in
 Russia ,  India ,  China  and  South Africa , the other BRICS.  Fiscal Concerns  “Alarm bells are going off” on fiscal policy as well,
said Thomas Trebat, director of the Brazilian studies program at
 Columbia University  in New York.  Since the passage in 2000 of the so-called fiscal
responsibility law, governments of all political stripes have
bound themselves by spending limits at federal, state and
municipal levels. That’s allowed government debt to fall to 39
percent of gross domestic product from 60 percent in 2003.  Still, investors are concerned Rousseff’s pledge to raise
pension payments by 14 percent in 2012 and revamp roads,
airports and infrastructure ahead of its hosting of the 2014
 World Cup  will make it difficult to meet the government’s budget
surplus target before interest payments next year.  The government resorted to special accounting rules to meet
its primary surplus goal last year as it kept in place fiscal
stimulus as growth topped 7.5 percent, the fastest in two
decades. Next year’s budget proposal presumes economic growth of
5 percent, higher than the 3.6 percent forecast by analysts.  “The government caught a huge break because of the rise in
commodities prices and the surge in economic activity,” said
Trebat, a former Citigroup Inc. analyst. “It should have been
saving. Instead it has been spending transitory income.”  Investor Support  Investors are still showing some signs of confidence in the
government. Even with the global selloff, the central bank last
month raised its forecast for foreign direct investment this
year to a record $60 billion from $55 billion. The extra yield
investors demand to own Brazilian government dollar bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries fell to 232 basis points from 428 at
the end of 2008, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  As to the third leg of the tripod, Brazil has been more
aggressive than its emerging market peers in trying to curb
currency gains fueled by abundant global liquidity.  Since October of last year, the government has tripled a
tax on bond purchases by foreigners, raised levies on loans
taken by companies abroad and boosted  reserve requirements  for
banks betting against the dollar in the futures market. The
central bank also bought $48 billion in the spot currency market
this year to stem a 50 percent rally in the real from the end of
2008 until July 26, when it reached a 12-year high.  The weakening of the tripod could increase the risk premium
investors demand to hold Brazilian assets, said  Christopher Garman , a director for  Latin America  at Eurasia Group, a
Washington-based political risk group.  “It’s a false dichotomy to think that you grow a little
bit more by accepting more inflation,” Garman said. “If this
strategy goes wrong, the government is going to have to take
harder measures to bring inflation back under control.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  