-- 
Brazil Cuts Interest Rate to 11.5% on Slowing Growth, European Debt Crisis

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-10-19T21:54:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/brazil-cuts-interest-rate-to-11-5-on-slowing-growth-european-debt-crisis.html
Brazil’s central bank cut borrowing
costs by half a point for a second straight meeting, as growth
in  Latin America ’s biggest economy slows amid  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
unanimously to reduce the benchmark Selic rate to 11.5 percent
from 12 percent, as forecast by 61 of 68 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Five analysts forecast a 0.75-point reduction, and
two expected a full-point cut.  The central bank “understands that to mitigate in a timely
way effects coming from a more restrictive global environment, a
moderate adjustment in the level of the basic rate of interest
is consistent with the scenario of the convergence of inflation
to the target in 2012,” policy makers said in their statement
accompanying their decision.  Policy makers are betting that slowing global demand will
offset the stimulus provided by lower borrowing costs and curb
the fastest inflation in six years, said  Gustavo Rangel , chief
Brazil economist for ING Financial Markets. Across Latin
America, no other central bank has lowered rates since  Colombia 
did 18 months ago, and in the Group of 20 nations only  Turkey 
has also cut its benchmark rate in response to the global
crisis.  “This cycle is basically a gamble,” Rangel, who
accurately predicted today’s cut, said by phone from  New York 
before the rate decision. “Countries like Chile and  Peru , which
would experience a deeper disinflationary impact should the
crisis worsen, are still not doing anything.”  External Focus  The central bank raised rates five times this year as near
record-low unemployment and a credit boom fueled inflation that
in April topped the 6.5 percent upper limit of the bank’s target
range. Inflation continued to accelerate even as concerns over a
global slowdown led policy makers to reverse course in August;
prices in September rose 7.31 percent from a year ago.  Traders expect the bank to cut rates by an additional 1.25
percentage point by April, according to Bloomberg estimates
based on interest rate futures yields.  Inflation expectations have jumped since the August rate
cut, and economists now expect  Brazil  to miss its inflation
target this year for the first time since 2003, according to an
Oct. 14  central bank survey . Economists forecast consumer prices
will rise 5.61 percent next year, up from of 5.2 percent at the
end of August.  Signs of Cooling  Brazil’s economy is showing signs of cooling. Retail sales
in August fell the most since March 2009, while industrial
production registered its third fall in five months. Business
confidence and the purchasing manufacturer’s index fell to its
lowest level since 2009.  The price of  iron ore , the country’s biggest export, has
fallen 18 percent since the start of September as demand
weakened in  China .  The economic activity index, a proxy for gross domestic
product, shrank 0.53 percent in August, its biggest decline
since the global financial crisis of 2008. Analysts expect the
economy to grow no more than 3.6 percent this year and next,
down from a 7.5 percent pace in 2010 that was the fastest in two
decades, according to the most recent central bank survey.  Even so, the labor market has yet to react to the slowdown.
Unemployment fell to 6 percent in August, a record low for the
month, down from 6.7 percent a year earlier. The country
generated about 209,000 registered jobs last month, higher than
the 169,000 forecast in a Bloomberg survey, and up from 190,000
in August.  Labor Demand  Full-employment conditions and the fastest inflation since
2005 have provoked accelerating wage demands. This month, bank
and postal workers went on strike for pay increases in excess of
inflation.  Loan growth has also yet to show signs of slowing. The
central bank last month raised its forecast for credit expansion
this year to 17 percent, from Tombini’s preferred 15 percent
rate. Total outstanding loans rose 19.4 percent in the year
through August.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing
in January 2012, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell two
basis points to 11.12 percent.  The benchmark Bovespa stock index has declined 18 percent
in dollar terms since the end of July, more than the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. The real has weakened 13 percent since
the start of August, the second-most of seven major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg after  Mexico ’s peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  