-- 
Bristol-Myers, Stem Cells, Facebook: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-10-19T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/bristol-myers-stem-cells-facebook-dow-intellectual-property.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and Sanofi
won an appeals court ruling that upholds a $442 million patent-
infringement judgment against Apotex Inc. related to generic
copies of the blood thinner Plavix.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  declined to make Apotex pay an additional $107.9
million in interest, according to the decision posted yesterday
on the court’s website. The court also rejected Apotex’s
argument that a trial judge should have let the generic-drug
maker pursue additional claims to challenge the 2007
infringement finding.  Plavix, sold by New York-based Bristol-Myers in the U.S.
and Paris-based Sanofi elsewhere, is the second-biggest selling
medicine, behind  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor. Apotex began selling a
generic version in 2006 after a lawsuit settlement agreement
fell apart. The Toronto-based company was ordered by a judge to
halt sales, and later lost a court challenge to the main patent
on the drug, which has a chemical name of clopidogrel bisulfate.  The agreement capped the amount closely held Apotex would
have to pay to no more than 50 percent of sales of the generic
version. The Federal Circuit said that the agreement didn’t
allow the court to also order prejudgment interest on the award.  About 34 percent of Bristol-Myers’s $19.5 billion in
revenue last year came from Plavix. The drug has generic
challengers in  Europe  and will have competition in the U.S. in
May.  The case is Sanofi-Aventis v. Apotex Inc., 2011-1048, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower
case is Sanofi-Synthelabo v. Apotex Inc., 02cv2255, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Embryonic Stem-Cell Patents Infringe EU Law, Top Court Says  The European Union’s highest court said that stem-cell
research involving human embryos can’t be patented, in a ruling
that scientists called “devastating” for medical research.  Inventions based on the use of human embryonic stem cells
for scientific research purposes can’t be patented, the  European
Court  of Justice in Luxembourg said. The case was triggered when
Greenpeace challenged a German patent awarded to Oliver
Bruestle, a professor and specialist in stem-cell research.  “This is an unbelievable setback for bio-medical research
in the area of stem cells,” Bruestle said in an interview after
the ruling. The EU court “took an extreme position on
restrictions in this area, which will have huge repercussions
globally, especially in the competition with the U.S. and  Asia ,
and in scientific research.”  Under an EU law from 1998, research methods that involve
human embryos for industrial or commercial purposes can’t be
patented. A German court handling the dispute at the center of
yesterday’s case sought the EU tribunal’s view on how to
interpret the phrase “for scientific research involving human
embryos” and to clarify the term “human embryo.”  “A process which involves removal of a stem cell from a
human embryo at the blastocyst stage, entailing the destruction
of that embryo, cannot be patented,” the EU court said. The
blastocyst stage is about five days after fertilization.  Greenpeace, which said it sued for “ethical reasons,”
argued the patent for a stem-cell research process developed by
Bruestle to treat neural diseases is invalid because it covers
cells derived from human embryos. The Federal Court of Justice,
Germany’s highest civil court, last year asked the EU tribunal
for guidance on the case.  The court clarified that “only use” of human embryos
“for therapeutic and diagnostic purposes which are applied to
the human embryo and are useful to it” are patentable.  “One consequence is that the benefits of our research will
be reaped in America and Asia,” said Austin Smith, a professor
at the Wellcome Trust Centre for Stem Cell Research at the
University of Cambridge.  The ruling might actually allow scientists a “sigh of
relief,” said Julian Hitchcock, a lawyer and  intellectual
property  specialist in the London office of law firm Field
Fisher Waterhouse LLP.  Researchers “won’t have to worry about inadvertently
infringing someone else’s patent,” Hitchcock said in a phone
interview. “While the ruling restricts patentability of such
inventions, it doesn’t in any way restrict the use of embryonic
stem cells.”  While patent protection might not be available, European
scientists can seek so-called data exclusivity, which protects
documentation for as much as eight years and prevents the
marketing of competing products based on the same data for up to
10 years, said Hitchcock.  The case is: C-34/10, Prof. Dr. Oliver Bruestle v.
Greenpeace e.V.  Barnes & Noble Settles Patent Dispute with Xerox  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  settled its patent dispute with  Xerox
Corp. (XRX) , according to a court filing yesterday. Terms weren’t
disclosed.  The bookseller sued Norwalk, Connecticut-based Xerox in
federal court in Manhattan in July 2010, seeking a declaration
it didn’t infringe four parents. New York-based Barns & Noble
also argued that the four parents Xerox claimed were infringed
were invalid.  The patents -- 5,513,126, 5,689,642, 6,236,994 and
6,999,962 -- are related to communications channels and access
to content.  The case settled before the judge had an opportunity to
rule on the scope of the patents, according to the court docket.  The case is BarnesandNoble.com LLC v. Xerox Corp., 10-
cv-05758-SAS, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Facebook Seeks Trademark for Provision of Data on ID Cards  Facebook Inc., operator of the most-used social-networking
site, applied to register its name as a trademark for a use that
may indicate a new business direction for the Palo Alto,
California-based company.  In an application filed Oct. 5 with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office, Facebook said it wants to register its
familiar lower-case white-on-blue logo for “facilitating social
and business networking through the provision of data for use on
business and identity cards.”  The company said it would also use this logo for business
cards and “non-magnetically coded identity cards.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Viacom Tells Court YouTube Deliberately Violated Copyrights  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B)  told an appeals court that  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
YouTube video-sharing website willfully violated copyrights by
letting users post videos of television shows without
authorization.  Both sides made oral arguments yesterday before the U.S.
Court of Appeals in Manhattan. YouTube told the court it removed
infringing videos from the site when it was notified by
copyright owners.  Viacom sued YouTube in 2007, claiming the site’s users were
illegally uploading thousands of videos from Viacom as well as
movies from its Paramount Pictures studio. The New York-based
entertainment company sought $1 billion in damages.  In the appeal, Viacom seeks to overturn a decision in
Google’s favor last year by a judge without a trial.  Viacom raised questions of fact “a jury might find
relevant” in its court papers, Circuit Judge Jose Cabranes told
a lawyer for Mountain View, California-based Google. The three-
judge panel said it will announce a decision later.  U.S. District Judge Louis Stanton ruled last year that
YouTube was protected from liability by the Digital Millennium
Copyright Act because it removed the offending videos when told
they had been posted.  “There’s no evidence of a single clip YouTube knew was
infringing that it failed to take down,” Andrew Schapiro, a
lawyer for YouTube, told the panel yesterday.  Viacom said YouTube was aware of the copyright violations
when it displayed the videos without authorization.  The lower-court ruling, if not reversed, “will lead to
massive exploitation of copyrighted material on the Internet,”
Paul Smith, a lawyer for Viacom, said at yesterday’s hearing.  More than 125 briefs supporting either Google or Viacom
were filed by parties such as the Associated Press,  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ,  the Songwriters Guild of America, singers Garth Brooks
and Sting.  Google, operator of the world’s biggest Internet search
engine, bought YouTube in 2006 for $1.65 billion. It said in its
brief that Viacom was also interested in buying the site. After
negotiations over a content partnership broke down and Google
made its successful offer, Viacom sent the “takedown” notices
required by law when a content provider wants infringing
material removed from a site.  Viacom said YouTube offered it a partnership agreement
valued at $590 million before talks ended. Viacom also alleged
that YouTube refused to deploy filtering technology to identify
infringing videos unless Viacom agreed to be a financial
partner.  The cases are Viacom International v. YouTube, 10-03270,
and the Football Association v. YouTube, 10-03342, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  Losing $13.5 Billion to Piracy Spurs Europe Law Reformers  Microsoft Corp. and  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  are among software
companies that lost $13.5 billion to program pirates and
counterfeiters in Europe last year. Their message to lawmakers:
Learn from the U.S. and punish the thieves.  As the European Union considers changes to its intellectual
property rules, it needs to make sure that higher damage
payments deter pirates, who often benefit because of
insufficient fines, said Warren Weertman, manager of legal
affairs for the Washington-based  Business Software Alliance 
trade group. Its members include Microsoft, Adobe,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and  Siemens AG. (SIE)   In Europe, about 35 percent of software deployed on
personal computers was pirated every year since 2007, compared
with 20 percent in the U.S., according to a May study by BSA and
researcher IDC.  Last year, France lost $2.6 billion in pirated software,
while Germany lost $2.1 billion, Italy $1.9 billion and the U.K.
$1.8 billion. Across the EU, Bulgaria recorded the highest rate
of software piracy in 2010 at 65 percent, while Luxembourg had
the lowest at 20 percent, according to BSA.  Globally, the value of pirated software rose 14 percent to
$58.8 billion last year, almost double the total in 2003. In
 China , almost four out of five programs in use are pirated, and
65 percent in Russia is stolen, according to BSA.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
last year published a report showing that some provisions of the
current law, which was introduced in 2004, need “further
clarification and have resulted in diverging interpretations at
national level,” said Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for EU
Internal Markets Commissioner Michel Barnier.  Software firms such as engineering and design software
company  Autodesk Inc. (ADSK)  say they also suffer from so-called under
licensing, where clients only pay for some of the programs used.  In Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, there are neither
statutory nor punitive damages but it is up to the discretion of
the court whether to fine, with no fixed amount, Weertman said.
The highest total settlement in an “end-user case” was 1.5
million euros, he said. In the U.K.’s criminal courts, the
maximum statutory fine is 10,000 pounds ($15,800) and punitive
damages aren’t recognized, he said.  In the U.S., punitive damages are often awarded in piracy
cases, with a statutory maximum rate per infringement of
$150,000 if it is found to be willful, according to the BSA.  The low rate of piracy in Belgium, one of the EU countries
where lump-sum or multiple damages are possible, backs up the
software companies’ claim. About 25 percent of software deployed
on PCs in the country was pirated in 2010, below the EU average
of 35 percent.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-Dow Scientist Admits to Economic Espionage, U.S. Says  An ex-Dow AgroSciences LLC researcher pleaded guilty to
economic espionage in connection with the alleged theft of trade
secrets from that company to benefit a Chinese university, the
U.S.  Justice Department  said.  Kexue Huang, 48, who is also known as John, also admitted
to stealing trade secrets from Minneapolis-based Cargill Inc.,
the U.S. said in a statement.  “Mr. Huang used his insider status at two of America’s
largest agricultural companies to steal valuable trade secrets
for use in his native China,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Lanny
Breuer said in the statement.  Huang entered guilty pleas today in two separate criminal
cases before U.S. District Judge William T. Lawrence in
Indianapolis. Financial losses from his conduct exceed $7
million, the U.S. said.  His attorney, James Edgar of Indianapolis, didn’t
immediately reply to voice-mail and e-mail messages seeking
comment.  Huang worked for the Indianapolis-based unit of Midland,
Michigan-based  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , researching the development of
organically-derived pesticides, from 2003 to 2008, then went to
work for Cargill as a biotechnologist.  While at Dow, he shared confidential information with at
least two unnamed people, one of whom conducted research first
at the Hunan Normal University in China and then in Dresden,
Germany, according to a signed plea agreement filed with the
court.  A U.S. grand jury in Indianapolis indicted Huang on 17
counts in June 2010. A separate federal grand jury in Minnesota
returned a single-count indictment accusing him of stealing a
trade secret related to food processing from Cargill in
November.  That case was transferred to Indianapolis federal court
where it was unsealed yesterday.  The crime of economic espionage is punishable by as long as
15 years imprisonment, and trade secret theft carries a term of
up to 10 years, the Justice Department said.  The cases are U.S. v. Huang, 10cr102 and 11cr163, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Indiana (Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 