-- 
Brookfield Sells NJ Office Tower for Record $377.5 Million

-- B y   K a t i e   S p e n c e r
-- 
2011-10-19T19:24:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/brookfield-sells-nj-office-tower-for-a-record-377-5-million.html
Brookfield Office Properties Inc.
sold Newport Tower in  Jersey City  to Multi-Employer Property
Trust for $377.5 million, the highest price on record for a
single office building in New Jersey, Brookfield said.  The 36-story, 1.1 million-square-foot (102,000-square-
meter) property on the Hudson riverfront, home to such tenants
as  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and AXA Equitable Life Insurance Co., is 89
percent occupied, New York-based Brookfield said in a statement
today. The real estate investment trust acquired the building as
part of its purchase of Trizec Properties Inc. in 2006, when 60
percent of it was leased.  Brookfield decided to sell the building after achieving
“opportunistic returns for us and for our partners,” Dennis Friedrich, president and global chief investment officer, said
in the statement. “During our six-year period of ownership and
management, we were able to successfully lease up, stabilize,
and incorporate sustainable strategies in the building to
significantly increase value.”  Jersey City, where Goldman Sachs Group Inc. built  New
Jersey ’s tallest skyscraper in 2004, is “viewed as an extension
of New York,” according to Jeff Dunne, a vice chairman at Los
Angeles-based CBRE Group Inc., who represented Brookfield in the
deal. A lack of new office space and an attractive price
discount compared with Manhattan shows “there’s a good case to
be made for rent spikes” at Jersey City’s top-quality
properties, he said.  Multi-Employer Property Trust, based in  Washington , is a
real estate fund that is owned by more than 360 pension plans.
The Newport Tower gives the company a “high-quality, stabilized
asset in the New York-New Jersey market, which is one of the
strongest office markets in the U.S.,” David Antonelli,
executive vice president, said in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Spencer in  New York  at 
 Katiespencer14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  