-- 
BSkyB Operating Profit Increases 16% on Broadband Demand, Shares Climb

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-10-19T07:40:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/bskyb-first-quarter-profit-on-demand-for-broadband-services.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ’s
fiscal first-quarter operating profit rose 16 percent, topping
analyst estimates, as the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV broadcaster sold
more broadband products to its subscribers.  The stock rose as much as 3.7 percent in London trading.
Earnings before interest and taxes and other items rose to 295
million pounds ($465 million) in the three months through
September from a year earlier, the company said today. Analysts
had estimated 286.5 million pounds.  BSkyB, which reached its target of 10 million subscribers
last year, moved its strategy away from adding customers as
subscriber growth slows. The company, in which  Rupert Murdoch ’s
 News Corp. (NWSA)  owns 39 percent, has focused on selling high-
definition TV services alongside Internet broadband and
telephone subscriptions to existing clients. First-quarter sales
rose 9 percent to 1.66 billion pounds.  “A lot of the growth has shifted from the core TV business
to the telecoms side of it,”  Will Smith , an analyst at
Jefferies International in London, said via phone.  BSkyB shares climbed as much as 25 pence to 700.5 pence and
were up 2.9 percent as of 8:31 a.m.  The company added a net total of 150,000 broadband clients
in the quarter. Net TV customer additions slowed to 26,000 from
40,000 in the prior quarter compared with an estimate of 38,000
clients.  New Broadband Clients  “TV is proving a bit more challenging but we’re
compensating for that well with the growth in broadband,” BSkyB
Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Darroch told reporters on a
conference call. Growth in TV subscriptions will be “harder to
come by in the next few quarters.”  While pressure on U.K. household budgets remains “acute,”
BSkyB is signing up broadband customers from rivals including
 TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc (TALK)  and  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) , Darroch said.  U.K. inflation accelerated to match a record high in
September as consumer prices rose 5.2 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 4.5 percent in August, the Office for
National Statistics said this week.  BSkyB, based in Isleworth, England, said in July it would
buy back 750 million pounds in shares after News Corp. abandoned
its 7.8 billion-pound bid for the rest of the company. BSkyB
said at the time that  James Murdoch , the 38-year-old son of
Rupert Murdoch, will remain chairman after his position had come
under scrutiny following a phone-hacking scandal the News
Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit.  BSkyB has fallen 18 percent from this year’s high of 850
pence before the Guardian reported July 4 that News Corp.’s News
of the World employees intercepted murder victim Milly Dowler’s
voice mails in 2002.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ; 