-- 
Bullard Says Fed Policy ‘Appropriately Easy,’ Relapse Unlikely: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-10-19T17:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/bullard-says-fed-policy-appropriately-easy-relapse-unlikely-tom-keene.html
James Bullard , president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, said current central bank
policy is “appropriately easy” and another recession is
unlikely.  “We probably avoided this recession scare that we’ve been
having since August,” Bullard said today in a radio interview
in St. Louis on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .
Recent economic reports have “surprised on the upside,” he
said.  Additional asset purchases are the central bank’s “most
potent” weapon, he said, while adding he wouldn’t support more
bond buying. “I think policy is already appropriately easy, so
I don’t think we’re in any position to do that now,” he said.  Policy makers voted Sept. 21 to extend the maturities of
the bonds in the Fed’s portfolio in a bid to push down mortgage
and other loan rates and spur growth. Some officials last month
wanted to keep further asset purchases as an option to boost the
economy as policy makers saw “considerable uncertainty” that
U.S. growth will pick up, according to minutes of their meeting,
released last week.  Recent economic data support the Fed’s view, expressed in
its September statement, that there will be “some pickup in the
pace of recovery over coming quarters.”  Employers added 103,000 jobs in September, up from a gain
of 57,000 the month before. Retail sales last month rose by the
most in seven months, and factory production climbed. The
reports have prompted Macroeconomic Advisers to raise its third-
quarter estimate for growth to 2.7 percent, economist Chris Varvares said in a later joint interview with Bullard on
Bloomberg Television.  “There is important news here,” Bullard said of the
growth estimate. “In August, you were looking at people really
marking up their recession probabilities a lot. Those are now
being marked back down.  ‘‘Even though the financial stress is still high, I think
there is more faith that the Europeans will come to some kind of
solution,’’ Bullard said. ‘‘It won’t be fast. It will go long
and be bumpy. They will not solve it in a week.’’  Pace of Expansion  The economy probably expanded at a 2 percent annual pace in
the third quarter, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists taken from Oct. 5 to Oct.
11. That compares with growth of 1.3 percent in the second
quarter and 0.4 percent in the first three months of the year.  ‘‘I think we’ll get away now without a recession,’’ Bullard
said, saying he expected growth of 2 percent to 2.5 percent in
the second half of this year. ‘‘It’s not great but it’s better
than what people were expecting during the summer.”  Bullard attributed the sluggish growth to the aftermath of
the housing bubble last decade and noted that investment in the
economy has not recovered to pre-recession levels.  “We got the upside of the bubble during 2004, 2005, 2006
when everything was going so well. Now we’ve got the downside of
the bubble in 2011 and 2012.”  Housing construction won’t rebound much, Bullard added in
the television interview.  “It is just not realistic to think that will come back
very rapidly,” he said. “It is going to be a long, slow,
painful process to get residential housing and nonresidential
structures back on an even keel.”  ‘Massive’ Shortfall  Fed policy makers differed this week over the central
bank’s ability to boost growth, with the Chicago Fed’s  Charles Evans  calling for more action to fight a “massive” shortfall
in employment and Richmond’s  Jeffrey Lacker  saying further steps
would probably serve only to stoke inflation.  “If we sit on our hands as the economy withers relative to
our mandate, then we could take a huge hit to our credibility,”
Evans said in a speech in  Detroit . Lacker, speaking in
Salisbury,  Maryland , said there’s little more the Fed can do
because “the strength of this recovery is going to be
relatively independent of our monetary policy choices.”  Lacker’s opposition to further monetary easing aligned  him
with Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota ,  Richard Fisher  of  Dallas  and  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia, who
dissented from last month’s decision to replace $400 billion of
short-term Treasuries in the Fed’s portfolio with longer-term
bonds, a strategy dubbed Operation Twist.  Bullard has said he supports Operation Twist, although its
impact on the economy is likely to be limited. He doesn’t vote
on the  Federal Open Market Committee  this year.  ‘Go Ahead’  “There’s some analysis inside the Fed that suggested this
would have some impact so we’ll go ahead with it,” Bullard said
today.  Bullard opposed the Fed’s pledge, made in August and
maintained this month, to hold its benchmark  interest rate  near
zero at least through the middle of 2013 so long as unemployment
stays high and the inflation outlook is “subdued.” The target
rate has been in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008.  “You should make policy according to the state of the
economy, not according to the calendar,” Bullard said today.
“It’s very awkward for the committee to be trying to move that
date around.”  Bullard, 50, joined the  St. Louis  Fed’s research department
in 1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  