-- 
C&C CEO Dunsmore Exits, New Chief Says No Change in Strategy

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-10-19T15:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/c-c-ceo-dunsmore-exits-new-chief-says-no-change-in-strategy.html
C&C Group Plc (GCC)  Chief Executive
Officer John Dunsmore is stepping down as head of the maker of
Magners cider after restructuring the company’s Irish business
and boosting international sales in his three-year tenure.  Dunsmore will step down in December but remain on the board
until the end of the February, he said on a call with reporters
today. Stephen Glancey, who joined C&C after working with
Dunsmore at U.K. brewer Scottish & Newcastle Plc, will become
the Dublin-based company’s new CEO.  C&C won’t change its strategy and becoming a takeover
target has never been on the agenda, Glancey said. C&C said
separately it remains confident of meeting its previously stated
full-year operating profit guidance of 108 million euros ($149
million) to 115 million euros.  “There is no change in strategy at all,” Glancey said on
the call. “You couldn’t put a cigarette paper between John and
I in the last 12 years.”  C&C fell 4.3 percent to close at 2.72 euros in Dublin
trading. The stock has retreated 20 percent this year.  “This will unsettle investors this morning,”  Bloxham
Stockbrokers  said in a note.  “The departing CEO has emphasised
his support for the company and the numbers speak for
themselves.”  C&C reported a “robust financial performance” even after
a tough second quarter both in the U.K. and Ireland where poor
weather added to low  consumer confidence , Dunsmore said.
Operating profit in the six months ended Aug. 31 from continuing
businesses before one-time items rose 7.8 percent to 67.4
million euros.  ‘Deliver the Goods’  “We believe we achieved a lot in terms of turning the
business around,” Dunsmore said on the call. “I remain as a
significant shareholder so I’ll be giving them grief if they
don’t deliver the goods and I am sure they will.”  Kenny Neison, who also joined C&C with Dunsmore in 2008,
will replace Glancey as finance director. The company is looking
for new heads of its U.K. and international cider businesses.  C&C proposed increasing its interim dividend 11 percent to
3.67 cents per share.  “You only need so many people to change a light bulb, it’s
not the biggest company in the world,” Dunsmore said. “I am
just very happy to hand over to Stephen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  