-- 
California Beating Bond Forecast Signals Falling Default Risk: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-10-19T16:40:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/california-beats-bond-forecast-on-default-risk-drop-muni-credit.html
California , with the best-performing
debt among U.S. states, is defying forecasts its borrowing costs
would rise as much as 15 percent on a $1.8 billion sale,
signaling confidence the lowest-rated state won’t default.  The biggest municipal issuer today priced the offer with a
preliminary yield of 3.60 percent on 10-year bonds, or 116 basis
points above benchmark  interest rates  on top-rated 10-year state
and local debt, a Bloomberg Valuation Index shows. That’s up
from a gap of 109 basis points in a sale last month. The
increase falls short of what Gary Pollack at Deutsche Bank
Private Wealth Management predicted. He said last week the gap
might swell to as much as 125 basis points, or 1.25 percentage
points, as municipalities sold the most debt this year.  California’s securities are in short supply after Governor
 Jerry Brown , to curb debt-service costs, imposed a nine-month
sales moratorium that cut issuance by more than half from last
year. Buyers may also be encouraged by spending cuts that would
be triggered if revenue trails projections by at least $1
billion this fiscal year.  Investors “have been more comfortable with the state
lately and they’ve done a few things in terms of their budgeting
process,” said Michael Pietronico, who manages $590 million as
chief executive officer at Miller Tabak Asset Management in  New
York .  “It looks like the sentiment toward the credit has
improved,” he said in an interview.  Market Rebound  The most-populous U.S. state is also benefiting from a
rebound in the $2.9 trillion municipal market. Yields on top-
rated 10-year bonds fell for a fourth day. They dropped to about
2.44 percent today after reaching a two-month high of 2.58
percent Oct. 14 following the biggest week of borrowing this
year. Local governments sold about $8.9 billion of debt in the
Oct. 7 week, the most since December. Municipalities plan $7.9
billion of sales this week.  California raised the rates on the 10-year bonds after
marketing them earlier this week to individual investors at 3.51
percent. The latest rate is about 14 percent higher than it paid
last month on bonds of similar maturity. That is still below the
17 percent increase on benchmark 10-year muni yields in the same
period, according to a BVAL Index. The sale, which includes
maturities from 2014 through 2041, concludes today.  Debt from California state and local issuers has earned 9.1
percent this year, the most among 26 states tracked by  Standard
& Poor’s  Municipal Bond indexes.  Illinois , with the same A1
rating from Moody’s Investors Service, is second with an 8.7
percent return. The credit grade is the company’s fifth-highest.  2011 Sales  California is set to offer $12.7 billion of debt this year,
compared with $27 billion in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. State Treasurer Bill Lockyer sold $2.5 billion of
general-obligation bonds last month.  Pollack at Deutsche said before this week’s sale that
California might pay a larger spread as municipal yields
increased along with issuance.  “Supply is a little bit more manageable,” said Pollack,
head of fixed-income trading at the New York unit of  Germany ’s
biggest lender.  The state said last week that  tax revenue  in the first
quarter of the fiscal year was $654 million below projections.
Brown and his fellow Democrats counted on as much as $4 billion
of revenue gains to help close a $26 billion projected deficit
in the  general-fund budget .  Automatic Cuts  The spending plan includes automatic spending cuts if the
extra revenue appears unlikely by year-end. Those so-called
triggers led Standard & Poor’s in July to rescind the state’s
negative long-term outlook.  “California’s still going to pay principal and interest in
a timely fashion, despite the headline risks,” said Pollack,
who helps oversee $12 billion of assets. “As long as I can
stomach that risk, I’m earning a lot of additional yield for it,
and I think a lot of investors are willing to get paid for that
type of risk.”  The credit-default swaps market is also signaling investors
are less concerned about the debt. The cost of protecting
California bonds against default for 10 years is 252 basis
points, down from about 300 basis points in January, according
to market prices compiled by London-based CMA. The cost is 13
basis points more than a benchmark index, down from a difference
of about 60 basis points in January.  The state can spend the proceeds on public projects such as
prisons and parks. Lockyer will use $133 million to refinance
taxable Build America Bonds sold in a 2009 private offering to
the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority. He
also is selling $200 million of taxable bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  