-- 
Camp Says He Wants to Release Territorial Tax Bill ‘Soon’

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-10-19T14:25:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/camp-says-he-wants-to-release-territorial-tax-bill-soon-.html
U.S. Representative  Dave Camp ,
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said that he is
working on legislation that would shift the U.S. to a
territorial system of taxing overseas profits and that the bill
will be released “hopefully soon.”  Camp, a Michigan Republican, spoke in a brief interview in
 Washington  today as he entered a meeting of the deficit-
reduction supercommittee, of which he is a member.  Tax lobbyists in Washington have been talking for several
days about the prospects for an imminent bill or a draft
proposal from Camp that would describe how the Michigan
Republican wants to change the tax code. His comment today is
the first official confirmation of the effort.  Camp, who became chairman of the House’s tax-writing panel
in January, has been holding hearings this year on the potential
for an overhaul of the U.S.  tax code . So far, he hasn’t provided
many details beyond calling for a broader tax base, a
territorial system of taxation, and a reduction in top corporate
and individual tax rates to 25 percent from 35 percent.  The release of legislation would mark a shift to a new
phase of the corporate tax debate and signal Camp’s interest in
tax code changes alongside what the supercommittee might
accomplish. The 12-member panel is charged with creating a 10-
year plan to cut at least $1.5 trillion from the federal
deficit by Nov. 23. Automatic across-the-board spending cuts
would take effect if Congress doesn’t pass a plan by Dec. 23.  Supporting Territorial System  Executives from multinational corporations including
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and  Kimberly-Clark
Corp. (KMB)  have been urging Congress to adopt a territorial tax
system.  “Do away with the worldwide structure and implement a
territorial tax system like those in most other industrialized
nations,” Edward Rapp, the group president and chief financial
officer of Caterpillar, told the Ways and Means panel on May 12.
“This would provide a level playing field for American
companies competing in markets at home and abroad.”  Under the current U.S. worldwide tax system, U.S. companies
owe taxes on profits they earn outside of the country. They
receive tax credits for payments to other governments and can
defer the residual U.S. tax until they bring the money home.  Most other countries with major economies have a
territorial tax system, under which most or all foreign profits
are exempt from taxation. The U.K. and  Japan  have moved to
territorial tax systems in the past few years.  Obama Administration’s Stance  The Obama administration has called for pushing
international  tax policy  in the opposite direction, with
proposed limits on the ability of U.S. companies to defer
taxation of overseas profits.  U.S. company executives and tax analysts will pay
particular attention in any corporate tax legislation to several
design features. These include the treatment of domestic
expenses, consideration of the more than $1 trillion in untaxed
profits that companies currently have outside the U.S., and
rules governing taxation of income derived from intellectual
property -- a key issue for the technology and pharmaceutical
industries.  They will also look to see whether Camp has a revenue
estimate from the  Joint Committee on Taxation , the official
nonpartisan scorekeeper of revenue legislation in Congress.
Depending on how a territorial tax system is structured, it
could either raise or lose revenue for the  U.S. Treasury .
Changes that raise money for the government could be used to
lower the 35 percent tax rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  