-- 
Canada Wheat Monopoly, Software Piracy, Swaps: Compliance

-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-10-19T12:30:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/canada-wheat-monopoly-software-piracy-swaps-rule-compliance.html
The Canadian government has given
the country’s Wheat Board four years to come up with a plan to
become a private company or cooperative under legislation that
would end the board’s monopoly on marketing wheat and barley.  Agriculture Minister Gerry Ritz introduced the bill in
 Canada ’s  House of Commons  yesterday and said the government
wants it passed by the end of the year.  Since 1942, western Canadian farmers have been required to
sell all their grain for human consumption to the board, under a
system the government created to stabilize prices. The bill
would remove that requirement by no later than Aug. 1, 2012,
enabling producers to sell next year’s crops on the open market.  The Wheat Board intends to fight the government’s plans,
according to Chairman Allen Oberg.  Once the bill is passed, farmers can enter into forward
contracts to sell their grain to any buyer, provided the
contract comes due after the monopoly ends on Aug. 1, according
to an official at Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada who briefed
reporters on condition of anonymity because he’s not authorized
to speak publicly on the legislation.  The law requires the Wheat Board to submit a plan to the
government within four years to turn itself into a corporation,
co-operative or not-for-profit organization. If they fail to do
so, the government can wind down the board in five years.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Approves Limits on Commodity Speculation by 3-2 Vote  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission votes 3-2 to curb
trading in oil, wheat, gold and other commodities after a boom
in raw-material speculation, record-high prices and years of
debate and delay.  The rule has been among the most controversial provisions
of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul, enacted last year, which
gave the CFTC the authority to limit trading in over-the-counter
commodity swaps as well as exchange-traded futures. The rule
will limit the number of contracts a single firm can hold.  For the video, click here.  Losing $13.5 Billion to Piracy Spurs  Europe  Law Reformers  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  are among software
companies that lost $13.5 billion to program pirates and
counterfeiters in Europe last year. They are urging lawmakers to
create heavier penalties for software thieves.  As the European Union considers changes to its intellectual
property rules, it needs to make sure that higher damage
payments deter pirates, who often benefit because of
insufficient fines, said Warren Weertman, manager of legal
affairs for Washington-based  Business Software Alliance . The
group’s members include Microsoft, Adobe,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Siemens
AG. (SIE)   In Europe, about 35 percent of software deployed on
personal computers was pirated every year since 2007, compared
with 20 percent in the U.S., according to a May study by BSA and
researcher IDC.  Ben Allgrove, a partner at law firm  Baker & McKenzie LLP  in
 London , said the gap is a result of the legal challenges for
copyright owners. Most EU countries lack statutory damages,
which means rights holders must prove actual losses, Allgrove
said in an interview.  Last year, France lost $2.6 billion in pirated software,
while Germany lost $2.1 billion, Italy $1.9 billion and the U.K.
$1.8 billion. The four nations were among the 10 most pirated
worldwide. Across the EU, Bulgaria recorded the highest rate of
software piracy in 2010 at 65 percent, while Luxembourg had the
lowest at 20 percent, according to BSA.  The  European Commission  may make proposals on how to change
the current law in the first half of 2012, said  Chantal Hughes ,
a spokeswoman for EU Internal Markets Commissioner  Michel
Barnier  said.  For more, click here.  CFTC Approves Rule Expanding Access to Swaps Clearinghouses  Swaps clearinghouses will be required to open access to
companies with at least $50 million in capital under Dodd-Frank
Act rules completed by the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission .  The rule was hailed by CFTC chairman  Gary Gensler  as “one
of the most significant rulemakings to lower risk in the
financial system.”  CFTC commissioners voted 3-2 yesterday to implement
governance of member-funded clearinghouses that will guarantee
trades between buyers and sellers in the $601 trillion swaps
market. Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul enacted
last year, included the rulemaking in the agency’s mandate after
largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  The rules will govern clearinghouses that develop plans to
cover a default by their largest member. The CFTC and other
regulators may adopt separate rules for clearinghouses deemed
systemically important, which would have to create plans to
cover the possible default of the two largest members.  For more, click here.  EU Gets Deal on Naked Sovereign CDS Curbs, Short-Selling  The European Union reached a deal as part of a short-
selling law that will pave the way for an optional ban on naked
credit-default swaps on sovereign debt.  Poland, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, and
lawmakers from the  European Parliament , reached the accord at a
meeting in Brussels, EU spokeswoman Chantal Hughes said.  Under yesterday’s deal, traders may be prevented from
buying CDS on  government bonds  unless they either own the
sovereign debt or other assets whose price moves in tandem with
it. Nations will have the right to opt out of the measure if
they detect signs that it may affect their borrowing costs.  Yesterday’s deal will allow national regulators to suspend
the CDS ban in their territory at the first signs that it may
harm their sovereign  debt market .  The opt-out clause won over some critics of possible bans.  The  European Securities and Markets Authority , which
coordinates national market regulators in the EU, will give a
non-binding opinion on whether a national regulators’ decision
to drop the ban makes sense.  While the suspensions will in theory be temporary,
regulators will be able to renew them indefinitely.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Erste’s Treichl Probed by FMA on Swap Accounting, Guidance  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and Chief Executive Officer Andreas
Treichl are being probed by Austria’s financial supervisor over
derivatives accounting and because the bank said it will post a
loss less than two weeks after Treichl publicly forecast a
profit.  The national supervisor is examining if the lender broke
Austria’s banking law in the past by accounting for credit
default Swaps off-balance sheet and at purchase prices, Klaus
Grubelnik, spokesman of the watchdog agency Finanzmarktaufsicht
authority, or FMA, said in a telephone interview.  The other probe concerns suspicions that Treichl
manipulated markets when he said he expected a profit in an
 interview with Reuters on Sept. 29 , Grubelnik said. Erste on
Oct. 10 signaled it would report a loss this year.  Erste spokesman Michael Mauritz said the bank received
questions from the FMA on the CDS accounting, adding he couldn’t
confirm the other probe.  For more, click here.  Basel Group to Probe Divergent Implementations of Rule Book  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said it will
examine possible differences in the way nations apply its
capital rules.  The study, starting in early 2012, will target differences
that “could raise prudential or level playing-field concerns,”
the Basel group said on its website yesterday. The study will
also review the measurement of risk-weighted assets “in both
the banking book and the trading book to ensure consistency in
practice across banks and jurisdictions.”  The committee yesterday published a report on its website
showing nations’ progress toward implementing bank capital rules
approved since 2004.  Banks Raided in EU Antitrust Probe Over Euribor Derivatives  European Union regulators raided banks that offer financial
derivatives linked to the euro interbank offered rate, saying
they were investigating possible collusion.  The  European Commission  said it had “concerns that the
companies concerned may have violated EU antitrust rules that
prohibit cartels and restrictive business practices.” It didn’t
name the businesses involved.  The EU probe adds to earlier inquiries by the commission,
U.K. and U.S. financial regulators into the possible breach of
rules governing the Libor benchmark borrowing rate.  For more, click here.  Courts  Barclays Loses Appeal Ruling in FSA Probe of Miner’s Share Fraud  Barclays Plc (BARC)  failed to persuade a London court to hold
Britain’s financial regulator liable for losses suffered when a
gold-mining company accused of fraud had its assets at the bank
frozen.  Judges at the U.K.’s Court of Appeal yesterday refused to
grant an order saying the Financial Services Authority should
pay for all losses resulting from an injunction freezing the
Barclays accounts of  Sinaloa Gold Plc. (S6G)   The U.K.’s second-largest bank had argued the FSA should
pay for all costs resulting from its enforcement actions, not
just the expense of finding and freezing the assets. Judge
Nicholas Patten disagreed, saying in a written verdict this type
of order would be “a kind of blank cheque.”  The FSA is investigating Sinaloa, which explores for gold
in Mexico, and trading company PH Capital Invest over the
alleged sale of “worthless” shares in a boiler-room fraud,
according to the appeal court judgment.  In December 2010, the FSA won an order prohibiting the sale
of Sinaloa stock and freezing assets with a value of as much as
858,267 pounds ($1.3 million).  The FSA and Barclays didn’t immediately respond to requests
for comment.  Hedge Fund 3 Degrees Asked to Wind Down on Diverted Assets Claim  3 Degrees Asset Management, a hedge fund that helps manage
$215 million, was asked by Singapore’s central bank to shutter
its operations following allegations that founder Moe Ibrahim
diverted assets.  3 Degrees is trying to overturn a decision by the  Monetary
Authority of Singapore  and the Finance Minister to withdraw its
 exempt fund manager status  effective Nov. 9 and ask it to wind
down, according to a lawsuit filed with the Singapore High Court
this month. A closed hearing is scheduled for Oct. 20.  The MAS probed the Singapore-based manager after one of its
funds sued Indonesian-born Agus Anwar in 2008 to recover at
least $40 million in debt. Anwar then claimed that Ibrahim
diverted $6.7 million from the fund to 3 Degrees, which is
wholly owned by Ibrahim. 3 Degrees, which focuses on distressed
debt, denied the allegations in its lawsuit.  Even if there was such a transaction, it was neither
“illegal or improper,” 3 Degrees said in its court filings.
The hedge fund manager said a fine would have been an
appropriate punishment.  Ibrahim declined to comment on the lawsuit or the status of
3 Degrees on Oct. 17. The fund has also asked the court to
prevent the announcement of the regulator’s decision, according
to the lawsuit.  Attempts by Bloomberg News to reach Anwar weren’t
successful.  The case is 3 Degrees Asset Management Pte v. Attorney
General and Monetary Authority of Singapore, OS874/2011,
Singapore High Court.  For more, click here.  FDA Chemist Liang Pleads Guilty to Insider-Trading Scheme  U.S. Food and Drug Administration chemist Cheng Yi Liang
admitted using his access to the agency’s drug-approval process
to make $3.8 million in an insider-trading scheme.  Liang, who worked for the FDA’s  Center for Drug Evaluation
and Research , pleaded guilty yesterday in federal court in
Greenbelt, Maryland, to one count of  securities fraud  and one
count of making false statements. He faces a maximum penalty on
the insider-trading charge of 20 years in prison and a $5
million fine when he is sentenced on Jan. 9.  The Securities and Exchange Commission brought a parallel
civil lawsuit against Liang in Greenbelt.  Liang and his son Andrew were initially charged in March
with conspiracy,  wire fraud  and securities fraud.  Andrew Liang
pleaded guilty last month to possession of child pornography
found in the course of the fraud investigation. He will be
sentenced in December. The securities case against him was
dismissed at the request of prosecutors.  Liang declined to comment after the hearing.  Liang’s lawyer, Andrew Carter, said in an interview that
his client submitted a resignation letter to the FDA. Erica
Jefferson, a spokeswoman for the agency, said the letter was
received Sept. 9 and became effective that day.  “The FDA fully cooperated with the investigation and has
begun taking steps to prevent this type of activity from
happening again,” Jefferson said in an e-mailed statement.  The cases are U.S. v. Chen Yi Liang, 11-cr-0530, and U.S.
v. Andrew Liang, 11-cr-00501, U.S. District Court, District of
Maryland (Greenbelt).  For more, click here.  SEC Wins Asset Freeze in Alleged Mortgage Restructuring Scheme  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission won a court
order to freeze the assets of a Texas man and his company,
claiming he raised at least $35 million by falsely telling
investors he was using their money to buy and restructure pools
of non-performing home mortgages.  James G. Temme, who raised the money since 2008 through his
firm Stewardship Fund LP, created false documents, made
unauthorized financial transactions and used new customers’
funds to pay off earlier investors, the SEC said in an complaint
unsealed yesterday in federal court in Texas.  Temme has been the subject of at least one state court
asset freeze and private lawsuits by investor groups, the SEC
said.  John Helms Jr., Temme’s attorney, said he is reviewing the
SEC’s filing, and that “the SEC did not give us any notice of
the motion or the hearing, so we had no opportunity to
participate whatsoever.”  The SEC is seeking unspecified financial penalties and
disgorgement of ill-gotten profits.  Interviews/Speeches  Reckers Says German Banks Can Boost Capital if Needed  Hans Reckers, managing director of  Germany ’s association of
public banks, talked about  capital requirements  and the
sovereign-debt crisis.  He spoke from Berlin with Bloomberg’s Poppy Trowbridge.  For the video, click here.  Position Limit Needed to Curb Manipulation, CFTC’s Chilton Says  Limits on the proportion of a market commodities traders
can control are necessary to prevent price manipulation,  Bart
Chilton , a commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, said.  “I’ve seen the manipulation of markets before,” Chilton
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday. 