-- 
FDA Links Cantaloupe Outbreak to ‘Poor Sanitary Practices’

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-10-19T17:38:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/cantaloupe-producer-jensen-farms-cited-by-fda-for-contamination.html
Health inspectors found widespread
contamination and “poor sanitary practices” at the  Colorado 
farm that produced tainted cantaloupes linked to the deadliest
U.S. foodborne illness outbreak in more than a quarter-century.  A packing facility owned by Jensen Farms in Granada,
Colorado, tested positive for the strains of listeria that have
sickened 123 people in 26 states, killing 25, the  Food and Drug
Administration  told the company in a  warning letter  posted today
on the agency’s website.  The outbreak prompted Jensen Farms to recall the
contaminated fruit on Sept. 14. The tainted melons have caused
more deaths than any foodborne illness in the last 25 years,
Barbara Mahon, deputy chief of the  Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention ’s Enteric Disease branch, said today on a
conference call.  “We need to learn everything we can from this tragic
situation to make sure it doesn’t happen again,” Mahon said.  A dump truck parked near the open-air packing facility is
among the possible causes of the contamination, Jim Gorny, a
senior adviser for produce safety at the FDA, said on the
conference call. The truck had hauled misshapen cantaloupes away
from the facility and dumped them at a cattle ranch.  “Cattle are definitely a reservoir” of listeria and can
transmit it through their feces, Gorny said. FDA inspectors
later found the truck “parked in the general proximity, right
next to where food is handled,” he said.  Equipment Previously Used  Packing equipment previously used for “another raw
agricultural commodity” is another possible source of the
contamination, Sherri McGarry, senior adviser in the FDA’s
Office of Foods, said on the conference call. The agency’s
investigation of Jensen Farms remains open, she said.  Thirteen of the 39 environmental samples that FDA
inspectors collected at the packing facility tested positive for
the outbreak strains, the agency said in its warning letter.  The “significant percentage” of positive samples
“demonstrates widespread contamination throughout your facility
and indicates poor sanitary practices in the facility,” the FDA
told the company in the letter.  Jensen Farms has agreed to “correct all the concerns”
noted during FDA inspections, FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg 
said on the conference call.  The company didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  Listeria, a bacterium found in soil and water, sickens
about 1,600 people and kills about 260 in the U.S. each year,
according to the CDC.  Animals  can carry and transmit the germ
without appearing ill. Pregnant women, the elderly and those
with weakened immune systems are at greatest risk from listeria
infections. Symptoms include fever and diarrhea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  