-- 
Carla Sarkozy Has Baby Girl in Paris: Europe 1

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-10-19T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/carla-sarkozy-delivers-baby-girl-report.html
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s wife
Carla Bruni-Sarkozy had a baby girl, Europe 1 radio reported, in
the first birth for a French incumbent head of state since
Empress Eugenie had Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte 155 years ago.  The birth is the first ever for a French president in
office. A duty officer at the Elysee Palace, the president’s
official residence, couldn’t comment on reports of the birth.  The couple’s first baby was born at a Paris hospital late
yesterday, according to the radio station. The child is the
fourth for the president, who has three sons from two previous
marriages. Carla Bruni, 43, has a son by an earlier relationship.  Sarkozy was in Frankfurt yesterday evening to meet with
Euro-area leaders to seek to narrow divisions four days before a
summit to solve the sovereign debt crisis. The president,
elected in May 2007 for a five-year mandate, has yet to say if
he’ll seek a second term next year.  “I won’t be on the campaign trail,” Bruni-Sarkozy told
 Madame Figaro in an interview Sept. 29 . “I will be taking care
of the baby!”  With the latest addition to his family, Sarkozy joins
British Prime Minister  David Cameron , who became the father of
Florence Rose Endellion three months into his mandate last year,
and Tony and Cherie Blair, who had their fourth child, Leo, in
2000, three years into his first term as the British PM.  Other Children  Sarkozy, 56, has three sons, Pierre, 26, and Jean, 25, from
his first marriage to Marie-Dominique Culioli. Louis, 14, is the
son he had with Cecilia Attias, whom he divorced in December
2007. Carla Bruni-Sarkozy has a 10-year-old son named Aurelien
with French philosopher Raphael Enthoven.  Carla Bruni , a successful 1990s model who turned singer in
the 2000s, had expressed a wish to have a child with Sarkozy. In
a Vanity Fair magazine interview two years ago she said “I hope
to, if I am young enough. It would be a dream.”  In a December state visit to  India , she reportedly told a
Muslim cleric at Fatehpur Sikri, the Mogul emperors’ city, that
she was “praying for a son.”  Bruni-Sarkozy, who married Sarkozy at the Elysee Palace,
has kept a low profile, although she has accompanied the
president on visits to the U.S.,  South Africa , India,  Tunisia 
and  Brazil .  Elections  Sarkozy’s popularity fell this month to close to its record
low. In March, polls showed that he was the least popular French
leader since World War II. All surveys in the past four months
have shown that he’d lose the presidential election to the
Socialist Party’s candidate  Francois Hollande .  Sarkozy would lose to his Socialist rival Hollande in the
elections next year, according to a poll published yesterday.
Hollande would win 62 percent and Sarkozy 38 percent in a run-
off, said the poll by CSA for BFM TV and RMC radio. It was the
first poll since the Socialist primary on Oct. 16.  In the election’s first round, Hollande would take 35
percent, Sarkozy 25 percent, anti-immigrant campaigner Marine Le Pen 16 percent and centrist Francois Bayrou 9 percent, the poll
showed. Under the French system, a run-off is held if no
candidate wins a majority in the first round.  France holds presidential elections next May. The poll
surveyed 1,010 people on Oct. 17. No margin of error was given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Deauville,  France , at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  