-- 
Carrefour Investor Knight Vinke Wants Independent Chairman

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-10-19T15:23:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/carrefour-investor-knight-vinke-calls-for-independent-chairman.html
Carrefour SA (CA)  shareholder  Knight
Vinke  Asset Management LLC called for the French grocer to split
Lars Olofsson’s role of chairman and chief executive officer and
appoint an independent chairman.  In an open letter to Carrefour’s shareholders, employees
and board obtained by Bloomberg News, the activist investor also
suggested that the world’s second-largest retailer consider “a
twin-headed solution,” with one CEO for  France  and neighboring
countries and another for emerging markets.  “The situation is far from ideal and we call on the board
to appoint an independent chairman as soon as possible,” Knight
Vinke, which owns about 1.5 percent of Carrefour’s shares, said
in the letter. Weak sales and share price performances are due
in part to “serious governance issues,” the investor wrote.  Florence Baranes-Cohen, a spokeswoman for Carrefour,
declined to comment.  Carrefour cut its 2011 profit forecast last week for the
second time in three months, saying it now expects a decline of
as much as 20 percent amid a slump in  Europe . The retailer,
whose shares have fallen 37 percent this year, is adjusting
prices and remodeling its largest stores to revive earnings as
competition intensifies in France, its largest market.  CEO Role  “We cannot stand by and watch without reacting,” Knight
Vinke wrote. “As to the role of the CEO, the company’s
management has within its ranks a number of highly experienced
professionals with a real understanding of retailing, both in
France and abroad. We would not recommend that the board bring
in an outsider, once again, to fill this position.”  Knight Vinke stopped short of calling for Olofsson to be
ousted. Olofsson joined Carrefour as CEO in 2009 from Nestle SA
and added the role of chairman in June, succeeding Amaury de Seze, who had recommended unifying the functions. De Seze, who
spent three years as chairman, remains on the board as lead
director.  Knight Vinke holds about 10 million Carrefour shares and
said it considers the stake a long-term holding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  