-- 
Philippine Stocks: Alliance, Cebu Air, Nickel Asia, PAL Holdings

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-10-19T05:33:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/cebu-air-nickel-asia-pal-holdings-philippine-stocks-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
had unusual moves in Philippine trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the close in Manila.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index increased 0.9 percent
to 4,193.55.  Alliance Global Group Inc. (AGI)  , owner of the largest
casino in Manila, gained 2.4 percent to 10.12 pesos, the highest
close since Sept. 20. The stock was named among Citigroup Inc.’s
top five share picks in the  Philippines .  Cebu Air Inc. (CEB)  , the largest Philippine budget
carrier, climbed 2.8 percent to 76 pesos, the highest close
since Sept. 22. The company said it flew almost 2.8 million
passengers in the third quarter, keeping it on track to reach
its target of 12 million for this year.  International Container Terminal Services Inc. (ICT)  ,
the largest port operator, climbed 2.5 percent to 53.50 pesos,
the highest close since Sept. 2. The company said it received
approval to increase some tariffs for foreign container handling
services at South Harbor and Manila International Container
Terminal.  IP E-Game Ventures Inc. (EG PM) climbed 1.5 percent to
26.50 pesos, the first gain in four days, after the company said
it signed an agreement to be the sole Philippine distributor for
Blizzard Entertainment International, developer of computer
games including World of Warcraft and Diablo.  Nickel Asia Corp. (NIKL)  , the largest Philippine
producer of the metal, increased for a third day, advancing 1
percent to 18.98 pesos, the highest close since Sept. 21. The
company will meet its target of producing 10 million metric tons
of nickel ore this year even after rebels attacked its mine
early this month, President Gerard Brimo said.  PAL Holdings Inc. (PAL)   increased 1.2 percent to 6.90
pesos, snapping a two-day loss. Philippine Airlines Inc., the
nation’s largest carrier and a unit of the company, will resume
normal operations on or before the third week of November,
Philippine Daily Inquirer reported, citing PAL Holdings Director
Michael Tan. PAL Holdings President Jaime Bautista couldn’t be
reached at his office for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  