-- 
Cemex Avoids Jump in $15 Billion Loan Rates by Reaching Repayment Target

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-10-19T18:31:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/cemex-pays-back-7-66-billion-of-bank-debt-to-avoid-interest-rate-increase.html
Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker
in the Americas, has paid off more than half of a $15 billion
 bank loan , allowing the company to avoid an increase in  interest
rates  that was set to take effect at year-end.  Cemex made a payment of $131 million today, bringing the
total amount paid back to $7.66 billion, said  Jorge Perez , a
spokesman for the Monterrey, Mexico-based company. Cemex
restructured the bank debt in 2009 to avoid defaulting amid the
global financial crisis.  The cement maker’s bonds rallied after the announcement,
extending a rebound as concern abated the company would fail to
meet the terms of the loan and be forced into bankruptcy as
growth slows in Mexico and the U.S. Yields on dollar bonds due
in 2018 have plunged 580 basis points, or 5.80 percentage
points, to 16.3 percent since reaching a record 22.1 percent on
Oct. 4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have now met the final prepayment milestone under the
financing agreement to avoid a 50-basis-point increase in our
interest expense,”  Fernando Gonzalez , Cemex’s chief financial
officer, said in a statement.  Gonzalez said the company continues to comply with its
financial obligations and has covered all maturities under the
bank financing agreement through December 2013. Cemex has a
payment of about $500 million due in December 2013, Perez said.  Balance Sheet  The company had told investors and analysts it would pay
down the loan to avoid higher interest and the move isn’t a
surprise, said Eric Ollom, a debt strategist with Citigroup Inc.
in  New York .  “The expectation has been all along, since they had the
cash on the balance sheet, that they would eventually write the
check to the banks,” Ollom said.  Cemex struggled to pay debt after it borrowed to acquire
Rinker Group Ltd. for $14.2 billion in July 2007 as the U.S.
housing market slid into recession and global construction
slowed.  Cemex shares trading in  Mexico  City rose 1.3 percent to
4.87 pesos at 1:30 p.m. local time, after gaining 7.4 percent
yesterday. They had dropped 62 percent this year before today.  Investors dumped the company’s bonds earlier this year as
concern mounted that it may need to renegotiate a bank covenant
that specified total funded debt must be no more than seven
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation,
amortization, a measure of  cash flow  known as Ebitda. Cemex
reported the ratio at 7.16 times at the end of June.  Asset Sales  Lorenzo Zambrano, Cemex’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said during a Sept. 29 meeting with investors and
analysts in New York that the company will meet the year-end
covenant with cost savings and asset sales without having to
renegotiate it.  Today’s payment is small and doesn’t have a significant
bearing on the covenant ratio, Ollom said. The company may
“scrape by” this year, but will face more difficulties meeting
a lower covenant of 6.5 times Ebitda for the end of June and
5.75 times in December 2012, he said.  “If they need a waiver, I’m fairly confident that given
the long-term relationship they have with their banks that the
banks would waive it,” Ollom said.  The cement maker is scheduled to report earnings on Sept.
26 before the market opens. The average estimate of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is for the company to post a loss
of 11 cents per American depositary receipt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  