-- 
Cerberus, Innkeepers Settle Dispute Over Takeover With $1 Billion Deal

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-10-19T19:13:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/cerberus-innkeepers-settle-hotel-deal-price-is-1-billion-1-.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP and
 Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT)  will pay $1.02 billion for 64 hotels of
 Innkeepers USA Trust  after settling a dispute over whether the
deal could be called off because of the U.S. economic slump.  The price in the revised agreement filed today in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan is less than the $1.12 billion
Cerberus and Chatham previously offered. The sale still requires
final court approval. Innkeepers’ unsecured creditors will
receive the same treatment as they were promised under the
bankruptcy exit plan confirmed by the court in June, according
to a company statement.  “The updated agreement provides a significant cash premium
to the original stalking horse bid and a meaningful return to
our creditors, and it allows us to move ahead with a timely exit
from Chapter 11,” Innkeepers’ chief restructuring officer, Marc A. Beilinson, said in the statement.  The so-called stalking-horse offer from Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and Five Mile Capital Partners valued the hotels
at $970.7 million before Cerberus and Chatham made a higher bid
at an auction.  Chatham fell 37 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $10.19 at 2:53
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Innkeepers
preferred securities jumped 35 cents, or 50 percent, to $1.05.
Both companies are based in  Palm Beach ,  Florida .  Binding Agreement  In August, after Innkeepers had won approval of the terms
of a reorganization, Cerberus and Chatham sought to cancel their
purchase of the bulk of the company’s extended-stay, mid-priced
and upscale hotels. Innkeepers, in bankruptcy since July 2010,
operates 71 hotels, including Residence Inns, Marriott hotels
and Hampton Inns.  Cerberus, a New York-based private-equity firm, cited a
clause that allowed the buyers to back out if there was an
adverse change in the lodging company’s business or the overall
economy. Innkeepers sued, saying there has been no such change
since reaching the binding agreement May 16.  A trial on the dispute, scheduled to begin Oct. 10, was
delayed four times as the companies pursued a settlement out of
court.  “If the buyer’s willing to pay less but it’s still an
acceptable price, you take that rather than risk it all in the
litigation,” said  Evan Flaschen , chair of the financial
restructuring group at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in Hartford,
 Connecticut , who isn’t involved in the case.  Midland Servicing  Midland Loan Services, a creditor and servicer of $825
million of fixed-rate mortgage debt, will now service $675
million and Lehman will get a cash payment of $224 million for
its claims. Both agreed to the revised treatment, Innkeepers
said.  Cerberus and Chatham said in court papers that the
downgrade of U.S. sovereign debt by  Standard & Poor’s , reduced
expectations for the economy and a decline of 30 percent to 40
percent in the market value of similar companies triggered the
so-called material adverse effect clause in the takeover deal.  The firms had sought the return of their $20 million
deposit and said that Innkeepers was barred from suing for
damages. Cerberus and Chatham sought to end the deal only to
negotiate a better price, Innkeepers claimed.  Chatham Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Fisher was CEO and
president of Innkeepers for 13 years and understood the
economics of the hotel industry, Innkeepers said.  Innkeepers, which owns hotels in 20 U.S. states and the
 District of Columbia , initially listed assets of $1.5 billion
against debt of $1.52 billion on its Chapter 11 petition.  Apollo Management   Innkeepers, whose parent is managed by an affiliate of  Leon Black ’s private-equity firm Apollo Global Management LLC, had a
prearranged reorganization plan proposed by Apollo and Lehman
Ali, a unit of bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings, when it filed
for bankruptcy. Creditors rejected that plan.  Chatham owns properties under Hilton brands including
DoubleTree and Hampton Inn, and Marriott brands including
Courtyard and Residence Inn, according to its website.  The lawsuit against Cerberus is Innkeepers USA Trust v.
Cerberus Four Holdings LLC (In re Innkeepers USA Trust),
11-02557, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York
( Manhattan ). The Chapter 11 case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust,
10-13800, in the same court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  