-- 
Chelsea Beats Genk 5-0 in Champions League as Barcelona, Milan Win at Home

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-10-19T22:42:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/chelsea-beats-genk-5-0-in-champions-league-barcelona-milan-are-victorious.html
Chelsea routed Genk 5-0 in soccer’s
 Champions League  as defending champion Barcelona and AC Milan
won 2-0 at home to remain tied atop their group. Arsenal was a
1-0 winner in Marseille on an injury-time goal.  Fernando Torres  scored twice at Stamford Bridge in  London 
last night as the Blues tied their biggest winning margin in
Europe’s top club competition. Bayer Leverkusen defeated
Valencia 2-1 and is a point behind Chelsea in Group E through
three of six games.  “We knew it was not going to be easy if our mentality was
not right, but our mentality was right and we made it look
easy,” Chelsea goalkeeper  Petr Cech  said in a televised
interview. “We deserved a result like that because of how we
approached the game.”  Raul Meireles  opened the scoring for Chelsea before Torres
netted his double. Branislav Ivanovic’s header put the home team
4-0 up at half time before Salomon Kalou tapped in the final
goal in the 72nd minute.  Sidney Sam scored the winner as Leverkusen came back from a
goal down against Valencia, which had gone ahead through
Oliveira Jonas in the 24th minute.  Aaron Ramsey scored in the 92nd minute in France to lift
Arsenal top of Group F with seven points. Olympiacos defeated
Borussia Dortmund 3-1 in the other game. Marseille has 6 points,
Olympiacos 3 and Dortmund 1.  Arsenal, which is 10th in England’s Premier League after
its worst start since 1953, has now won 5 of its last 6 matches.  Confidence  “For the qualification, it was a very important goal, and
for our confidence too,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said.
“We started to create chances and it was a case of patience,
discipline and intelligence. The spirit was good and our
attitude was right.”  Apoel Nicosia is top of Group G after drawing 1-1 at Porto
as Shakhtar Donetsk and Zenit St. Petersburg tied 2-2 in the
other game. The Cypriot team has 5 points, one more than Porto
and Zenit. Shakhtar has 2 points in last place .  In Group H, AC Milan defeated BATE Borisov on goals from
Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Kevin-Prince Boateng, while  Andres Iniesta  and  David Villa  scored to give Barcelona a similar
result against Viktoria Plzen in Spain.  Milan and Barcelona have 7 points, 6 more than the other
two teams.  The next round of matches are schedule Nov. 1 and 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  