-- 
Chile Central Bank Must Not Act Too Late, De Gregorio Says

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-10-19T15:19:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/chile-central-bank-must-not-act-too-late-de-gregorio-says.html
Chile ’s central bank must not act
too late to protect the country’s economy from a deterioration
of the global economy, bank President Jose  De Gregorio  told a
conference in Santiago today.  Authorities could compensate for a late response with
aggressive action, he said. Chile is “very well prepared,” De
Gregorio said.  Chile’s central bank has kept its benchmark rate unchanged
for four straight months and last month said that it may change
rates should economic conditions worsen. Economists expect
policy makers to keep the benchmark rate unchanged at 5.25
percent next month and lower it to 5 percent in December,
according to the median of 60 forecasts in an Oct. 11 central
bank survey.  “It is important that, in general,  monetary policy  doesn’t
act late nor in insufficient doses,” De Gregorio  said . “But it
is also important that it doesn’t act precipitately. Monetary
policy that reverses bias because the diagnosis was wrong loses
credibility. Potential delays can be compensated for with
aggression.”  The bank is focused on the effects of slowing global growth
on the Chilean economy, De Gregorio said.  Chilean economists are divided on the risk of inflation the
economy faces.  Banco Santander Chile expects inflation to slow to 2.2
percent in 2012. Banco de Credito e Inversiones has said that it
could end next year at 4 percent. The central bank targets 3
percent inflation.  The peso strengthened 0.3 percent to 509.33 per dollar at
10:53 a.m. New York time from 510.92 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net  or
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 