-- 
China’s Treasuries Sales Reflect Gains, Fed Policy View, CRT’s Ader Says

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-10-19T20:03:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/china-treasuries-sales-reflect-gains-view-of-fed-crt-capital-s-ader-says.html
China ’s August sales of Treasuries
may have been driven by the securities’ gains linked to U.S.
economic weakness, European debt turmoil and speculation of more
Federal Reserve bond buying, according to  David Ader , at CRT
Capital Group LLC.  “It appears China is playing off the Fed and financial
turmoil,” said Ader, head of government bond strategy at
Stamford, Connecticut-based CRT, in telephone interview. “When
you have a portfolio like that you want to sell into potential
rallies, and I suspect China is doing the same.”  China, the world’s second-largest economy and the largest
foreign lender to the U.S., cut its position in U.S. government
securities by $36.5 billion, or 3.1 percent, to $1.14 trillion,
according to Treasury Department data released yesterday in
 Washington . At the same time, the data showed total foreign
ownership increased 2 percent to a record $4.57 trillion as
global investors sought a refuge from the financial market
turmoil that followed the downgrade.  The central bank said Sept. 21 it would buy $400 billion of
 U.S. debt  with maturities of six to 30 years through June while
selling an equal amount of securities in its portfolio due in
three years or less. The program is known as Operation Twist.  Treasuries returned 2.8 percent in August, while the global
 bond market  gained 1.99 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
stocks fell 7 percent the same month, the biggest slump since
May 2010, and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of
commodities lost 1.8 percent.  Since August, the U.S. Treasury Master Index has gained
0.79 percent through Oct. 18.  Foreign holdings of  U.S. Treasuries  have risen 3.1 percent
this year through August, the smallest increase since 2006.
International ownership of  U.S. government debt  rose 20 percent
annually the prior two years, and at a compound rate of 17
percent since 2001, as far back as the data is available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  