-- 
China Love of U.S. Cherries Fuels Boom for Chilled-Cargo Ships: Freight

-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-10-20T12:31:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/china-s-love-of-sleeping-u-s-cherries-fuels-chilled-cargo-surge-freight.html
Container lines struggling to make
money hauling Chinese-made goods to the U.S. are experiencing a
surge in lucrative shipments of meat, fruits and vegetables in
the other direction.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S and Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.’s APL
unit have led a 46 percent jump in refrigerated-container
shipments to  China  from the U.S. this year, according to Piers
data, as higher wages and quality concerns stoke demand for
imported food. The need for specialized containers, known as
reefers, means rates are about four times higher than those for
carrying a standard box from Shanghai to  Los Angeles .  “There’s an opportunity in the reefer market,” said  Tim
Smith , the North Asia head at  Maersk Line , the world’s largest
container-ship operator. In China, “the level of disposable
incomes has increased a lot, so we think they’ll want more high-
quality foods and perishable products,” he said.  Copenhagen-based Maersk’s shipping arm plans to invest more
than $1 billion in refrigerated containers over two years, Smith
said by e-mail. Revenue from chilled cargo may rise more than 10
percent next year after “major” growth this year, he said.  Shipping lines use refrigeration equipment and gases
including oxygen, carbon dioxide and nitrogen to keep food fresh
during sea voyages that can be longer than two weeks. That’s
allowing them to carry goods that once could only be moved by
quicker and more costly air cargo. APL, Orient Overseas
(International) Ltd. and other lines also offer real-time
temperature-tracking systems to assure shippers about quality.  Sleeping Fruit  “We basically put the fruits to sleep, extending their
shelf life,” said Eric Eng, APL’s vice president for global
reefer trade. “For growers, it means new markets in countries
far away.”  The shipping line’s reefer sales have grown more than 10
percent annually for the past eight years and the company
expects that to continue, he said, without elaborating.  Taiwan-based Evergreen Marine Corp. ordered 4,000
 refrigerated containers  in August from a  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX)  unit. Port operator China Merchants Holdings
(International) Co. and partner Americold are also investing
$400 million over five years building up a cold-chain
distribution network in China.  Shanghai Great Harvest International Co., which distributes
fruit across China, pays about $6,000 to ship a forty-foot
container of cherries from  Seattle  to Hong Kong, said Chief
Executive Officer John Wang. Cherries are the fastest-growing
product in terms of demand for the  wholesaler , which also
imports grapes, apples and other fruits, he said.  “Chinese people are getting richer and they don’t worry
about three meals a day anymore,” he said. “They are changing
their appetites and they want fresh food.”  Pomelos, Grapes  The use of containers for perishable goods has boosted the
availability of imported fruit in China, said Ye Jianqing, 29,
who runs Cidoko Fruit store in  Shanghai ’s People’s Square
district. Imported produce generally costs about 50 percent more
than local goods, said the fruit seller, who offers pomelos from
 Thailand  at 34 yuan ($5) apiece and U.S. grapes for 30 yuan per
500 grams.  “Chinese consumers used to feel that buying imported fruit
was extravagant,” he said. “But as Shanghai becomes more
developed, the standard of living is higher and consumers have
changed their thinking.”  Food-safety scares have also fueled the trend. In May,
watermelons in eastern Jiangsu province exploded in fields,
possibly because of a growth-promoting chemical and sudden
rainfall after a drought, the official Xinhua News Agency said
at the time.  Container Line Earnings  Container lines’ earnings have tumbled this year as
plunging rates for carrying goods from China outweigh rising
demand for imports. NOL dropped 3.6 percent to S$1.85 in
Singapore trading today. The shipping line has declined 50
percent this year. Orient Overseas has tumbled 57 percent in
Hong Kong and Maersk has fallen about 30 percent in Copenhagen.  The boom in China-U.S. reefer traffic “will not be
sufficient to reverse the overall decline for container-shipping
lines,” said Tan Hua Joo, a Singapore-based analyst at
shipping-data provider Alphaliner. “The carriers’ performance
this year will be driven by the weak conditions on the Far East-
 Europe  and Far East-North America trades.”  U.S.-China Imports  The U.S. imported the equivalent of 5.6 million twenty-foot
containers from China in the first eight months, according to
Piers, because of demand for sneakers, auto parts and toys made
in Chinese factories. The tally, which included 70,730 reefer
shipments, was little changed from last year.  By contrast, 53,381 twenty-foot reefers were carried on
U.S.-China routes in the period, with meat and frozen fish
accounting for about 50 percent, according to Piers, the trade-
data arm of London-based UBM Plc. The number of shipments in
traditional boxes on the route rose 8.9 percent to 1.6 million.  Prices for new reefers are “staying relatively high”
because of rising demand and a shortage of capacity, while the
cost of standard units is declining, said Andrew Foxcroft, who
writes an annual cargo-box report for Drewry Shipping
Consultants Ltd.  Lines may order as many as 140,000 new refrigerated units
this year, compared with about 100,000 last year, Foxcroft said.
The global number of refrigerated containers will likely reach
1.06 million by the end of the year, he said. The total fleet,
which is predominately standard units, totals about 31 million.  The use of reefers may continue rising as Chinese shoppers,
like Wang Lin, a 32-year-old mother living in Shanghai, seek out
more cherries, blueberries and oranges from the U.S.  “It was dull only having Chinese-grown apples, pears or
tangerines every day,” Wang said. “I hope to eat many more
different types of fruits in future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 