-- 
China Becomes Apple’s Second-Largest Market as ‘Sky’s the Limit,’ CEO Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-19T06:39:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/china-becomes-apple-s-second-largest-market-by-sales-cook-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said  China  has become its
largest market after the U.S. as the iPhone, iPad and iMac
computer maker opened an online store last year and six retail
outlets in the past three years in the Asian nation.  China, the world’s most populous country, accounted for 16
percent of Apple’s fourth-quarter sales, or about $4.5 billion,
Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said on a conference call
yesterday. Revenue in the nation was almost four times the year-
earlier level, he said.  Demand in China was a bright spot in Apple earnings
reported yesterday, which missed analyst estimates for the first
time in at least six years as iPhone sales lagged behind
targets. The Cupertino, California-based company’s sales in the
Asian country jumped to $13 billion in the year ended Sept. 24
from $3 billion the previous 12 months, Cook said.  “I’ve never seen a country with as many people rising into
the middle class that aspire to buy products that Apple makes,”
Cook said on the call. “China, the sky’s the limit there.”  Apple has a network of more than 200 “Apple Premium
Resellers” in the country that are focused on the company’s
products, Cook said. Combined with other types of resellers and
partner China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd., the nation’s only carrier
now offering the iPhone with a service contract, there are 7,000
points of sale for the iPhone in China, he said.  Largest Market  Even at that rate, Apple isn’t expanding fast enough in
China, said  Shaun Rein , managing director of China Market
Research Group., a Shanghai-based company that advises retailers
and other clients about doing business in the country.  “China should be Apple’s largest market, and I think they
are actually underperforming here,” Rein said. “They haven’t
opened enough Apple stores. Apple needs to accelerate store
openings much, much more.”  The China market can sustain 100 or more stores “easily,”
Rein said.  Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Apple, said she
had no comment on Rein’s analysis beyond remarks made by Cook
that the company is “continuing to make investments” in China.  China is the world’s largest mobile-phone market by
subscribers, with 940 million users registered as of the end of
August, according to the nation’s Ministry of Industry and
 Information Technology .  ‘Feverish’ Growth  The country probably overtook the U.S. as the largest
personal-computer market in the second quarter, after three
decades of American dominance in an industry pioneered by Apple
and International Business Machines Corp., research firm IDC
said in August.  Personal-computer shipments in China rose 14 percent to
18.5 million units during the second quarter, the first time
they surpassed the number in the U.S., where they fell 4.8
percent to 17.7 million, IDC said at the time.  Apple sales in China, Hong Kong and  Taiwan  rose to 12
percent of the company’s total last fiscal year, compared with 2
percent in 2009, Cook said on the call.  Revenue is growing “at a feverish pace,” in the region,
making it the company’s fastest-growing “by far,” he said.  Apple opened its first store in  Hong Kong  last month, as
well as its third store in  Shanghai . The company also has two
outlets in Beijing.  “It’s an area of enormous opportunity,” Cook said. “It
has quickly become No. 2 on our list of top revenue countries,
very, very quickly. We’re obviously placing additional
investment. We’re building more stores there, as well as doing
quite a few other things.”  Fourth-quarter profit was $6.62 billion, or $7.05 a share,
compared with $4.31 billion, or $4.64 a share, a year earlier,
Apple said yesterday in a statement. That missed analysts’
predicted profit of $7.31 a share, the first time Apple
disappointed in at least 26 quarters.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  