-- 
China to ‘Strictly Control’ Shadow Banking Risks, Liu Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-20T04:56:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/china-will-strictly-control-shadow-banking-risks-liu-says-1-.html
China ’s banking regulator sought to
ease concerns about the health of the nation’s lenders and the
informal lending market, vowing to control risks and stressing
measures already taken by the government are showing results.  Ratings companies and investment analysts have
“underestimated” the nation’s determination and ability to
carry out reforms, and are “talking down” the nation’s economy
and banking industry, Chairman  Liu Mingkang  said, according to a
transcript of a speech he gave that was posted on the website of
the China Banking Regulatory Commission. The regulator is paying
“great attention,” Liu said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  last week pledged more support for
smaller companies after media reports highlighted a credit
squeeze that has driven many businesses to the so-called shadow
banking system to obtain loans. More than 80 businessmen in the
eastern city of Wenzhou have disappeared, committed suicide or
declared bankruptcy to avoid repaying debts to informal lenders,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported on Oct. 12.  “The authorities want to monitor the situation to ensure
localized distress remains localized and treatable with sector-
specific measures,” said  Tim Condon , Singapore-based head of
Asian research at ING Groep NV and a former World Bank economist.
“Monetary tightening will ultimately spread to the shadow
banking system and we’re seeing the results of this in
Wenzhou.”  Bank Shares Drop  The People’s Bank of China has raised  interest rates  five
times in the past year and restricted lending to cool inflation.
Liu acknowledged that the tighter liquidity has “spawned
various shadow banking activities,” which the regulator will
“strictly control.”  Shares of China’s banks fell less than the benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index today. Industrial and Commercial Bank
of China Ltd. declined 0.24 percent,  China Construction Bank
Corp. (939)  dropped 1.1 percent,  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  fell
1.2 percent and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  declined 1.3 percent as of
the 11:30 a.m. trading break. The index fell 1.95 percent.  State-run fund Central Huijin Investment Ltd. said last
week it would start increasing its holdings in the nation’s four
biggest state-owned commercial banks after their shares dropped
on concerns that bad debts are increasing on loans to property
developers and companies set up by local governments to build
infrastructure.  Monitoring Shadow Banking  The central bank put the size of private lending at 3.38
trillion yuan ($530 billion) as of May based on an investigation
it carried out in June, the 21st Century Business Herald
reported today, citing an unidentified person close to the
monetary authority. The PBOC plans a second probe and may
introduce a monitoring system, according to the newspaper. A
press official at the central bank declined to comment on the
report.  UBS AG economist  Wang Tao  estimated private lending may be
as much as 4 trillion yuan, or 10 percent of gross domestic
product, according to an Oct. 11 note to clients.  The central bank’s introduction this year of an aggregate
financing measure, designed to capture other funding sources in
the economy including bond and stock issues and banks’ off
balance-sheet loans, “is an explicit recognition of the
importance of the shadow banking system,” ING’s Condon said.  In his speech, Liu also cited the debts of local government
financing vehicles and property developers as concerns,
according to the transcript.  Hidden Risks  “It’s undeniable that the lack of supervision and
management of local government financing vehicles have created
some hidden risks,” Liu said.  Local governments, barred from directly selling bonds and
taking bank loans, have set up thousands of companies to raise
money to fund investment in roads, sewage plants and subways. A
report by the nation’s audit office in June found more than
6,576 local government financing vehicles had outstanding debt
of 10.7 trillion yuan.  Concerns are also growing that the government’s crackdown
on the real-estate industry, continued tightening to rein in
inflation that hit a three-year high in July and slowing
economic growth will leave many companies unable to pay back
their loans.  Chinese developers face an “increasingly severe” credit
outlook and a 30 percent decline in sales may leave many facing
a liquidity squeeze, ratings company  Standard & Poor’s  said last
month.  Wenzhou ‘Hysteria’  Banks’ overall bad debt ratio on real-estate lending is
lower than 2 percent and recent stress tests show that they can
withstand a 40 percent decline in property prices, Liu said
yesterday. Property lending accounted for 19.8 percent of total
outstanding loans at the end of August, he said.  The worst of the “panic and hysteria” over informal
lending in China may be over as the city of Wenzhou works with
businesses and the central government to stabilize credit, UBS’s
Wang said in her note.  “The size of informal lending is relatively small and the
concerns about the direct impact on the formal banking sector
and the economy are exaggerated,” Hong Kong-based Wang said.
The “bigger risks are credit withdrawal in both the formal and
informal lending market and contagion,” she said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nerys Avery at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net  