-- 
China Repo Rate Falls on Speculation PBOC Will Boost Liquidity

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-10-19T08:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/china-repo-rate-falls-on-speculation-pboc-will-boost-liquidity.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
declined on speculation the central bank will inject more funds
into the financial system as part of efforts to prop up growth
in the world’s second-largest economy.  China may cut  interest rates  and introduce a new stimulus
plan equivalent to trillions of yuan if slowing growth becomes
“more serious,” the China Securities Journal yesterday cited
 Wang Jian , secretary general of the National Development and
Reform Commission’s China Society of Macroeconomics, as saying.
Gross domestic product expanded 9.1 percent last quarter, the
weakest pace since 2009, data showed yesterday.  “We believe the policy stance is likely to see some
relaxation in the coming months,”  Yu Song , an analyst at Gao
Hua Securities Co. Ltd., wrote in a note to clients. “The exact
timing and magnitude of the relaxation will to a very large
extent depend on external demand as it has a much higher level
of uncertainty compared with inflation.”  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, fell 11 basis points, or
0.11 percentage point, to 3.37 percent in  Shanghai , according to
a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center.  The People’s Bank of China has injected cash into the
financial system every week for the past three months to help
ease a credit squeeze, pumping in a total 565 billion yuan ($89
billion).  The economy may cool rapidly as a result of bankruptcies of
small- and medium-sized companies through early 2012, Wang was
cited as saying in the newspaper.  Bond Auction  China sold five-year bonds at a lower yield than investors
estimated as demand for sovereign debt rose amid signs of the
weakness in the economy.  The Ministry of Finance issued 29.3 billion yuan ($4.6
billion) of notes due 2016 at an average rate of 3.55 percent,
according to a trader at a  finance company  that participates in
government debt auctions. That compared with a median estimate
of 3.58 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven fixed-income
analysts and traders.  The yield on the 3.93 percent government bond due August
2021 was little changed at 3.74 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost
to receive the seven-day repurchase rate, rose three basis
points to 3.50 percent.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 