-- 
China’s Stocks Slide for Second Day on Growth Concerns, Led by Automakers

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-19T07:28:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/china-s-stock-futures-rise-on-valuations-profit-growth-outlook.html
China’s stocks fell for a second day
after foreign direct investment grew at the slowest pace in
three months, boosting speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis and
tighter monetary policies are stalling global economic growth.  FAW Car Co. led declines by automakers after the Economic
Observer said an industry group cut its 2011 domestic vehicle
sales growth forecast. Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth
Hi-Tech Co. retreated to the lowest in eight months after
announcing a production halt amid weakening metals demand. Poly
Real Estate Group Co., the second-biggest developer, slid 2.5
percent on concern the nation’s  home prices  will decline further
as the government maintains real-estate curbs.  “The bearish sentiment won’t change and all news will be
interpreted in a negative way,” said Tu Jun, a strategist at
Shanghai Securities Co. “There’s still room for the central
bank to keep its monetary policy tight.”  The  Shanghai  Composite Index lost 6 points, or 0.3 percent,
to 2,377.51 at the close, extending yesterday’s 2.3 percent
slump. The CSI 300 Index slid 0.4 percent to 2,583.08.
The Shanghai index has lost 15 percent this year, driving down
estimated price earnings to 11 times, compared with the record
low of 10.8 times set on Oct. 10, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. China has raised  interest rates  three times in 2011
and ordered lenders to set aside a bigger portion of their
deposits to curb inflation that’s near a three-year high.  A gauge of consumer discetionary stocks in the CSI 300
dropped 1.4 percent, the most among the 10 industry groups.  FAW lost 4.4 percent to 10.56 yuan in Shenzhen, the lowest
close since March 13, 2009. Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co. fell
1.7 percent to 7.62 yuan. CAAM cut its forecast for vehicle
sales growth to as much as 3 percent this year, from 5 percent,
the newspaper said. It was the second time that the association
cut the forecast, it said.  Prudent Policies  Central bank adviser Xia Bin said that the nation’s growth
is “sound” and he doesn’t believe that the government needs to
implement any “major” stimulus measures.  He spoke in an interview in Beijing today after the
government announced yesterday that growth slowed to 9.1 percent
in the third quarter, the slowest pace in two years. The central
bank should stick to its “prudent” monetary policy, he said.  Foreign direct investment in  China  grew in September at the
slowest pace in three months, as companies pared spending amid
concerns that the global recovery is faltering.  Foreign investment gained 7.9 percent to $9 billion, the
Ministry of Commerce said in a statement distributed before a
briefing in Beijing today. That compares with expansion of 11.1
percent in August and 19.8 percent in July.  No ‘Sudden Change’  A leading economic index for China rose 0.5 percent to
159.5 in August, the Conference Board, a New York-based research
organization, said on its website today.  “The latest data won’t trigger any sudden change in
monetary or fiscal policy, but looking ahead the overall
direction is likely to be easing,” said Yao Wei, an economist
at  Societe Generale  SA and the only one of 22 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey to predict the GDP number. “Consumption
has held up quite well,” said Yao.  Chinese stocks will continue to be volatile in the next 12
months with investors selling into rallies, according to BNP
Paribas SA.  BNP Paribas recommends Chinese resource producers and
“brand” consumer companies, Dorris Chen, head of China
research at BNP, said in a report to clients. “With September
new credit of 470 billion yuan lower than expected, and macro
growth deceleration evident in third-quarter numbers, the coming
month is likely to see profit-taking in China after strong
rallies recently,” she said.  Property Prices  Poly Real Estate lost 2.5 percent to 8.71 yuan.  Gemdale
Corp (600383)  slid 2.2 percent to 4.55 yuan. Home prices may fall up to
20 percent and that it may take several more months before China
starts relaxing tightening policies, according to a report from
Societe Generale’s Yao.  Inner Mongolia Baotou fell 4.7 percent to 45.27 yuan, the
lowest since Feb. 14. The rare-earth producer cited falling
prices and weak demand for the production halt that will take
effect today, the company said in a statement to Shanghai’s
stock exchange.  Sinohydro Group Ltd., China’s biggest hydroelectric dam
builder, slumped 7.8 percent to 4.86 yuan. The stock surged 17
percent yesterday in its trading debut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  