-- 
Citigroup Buys Risk Currencies Before European Resolution of Debt Crisis

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-10-19T19:47:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/citigroup-buys-risk-currencies-before-european-resolution-of-debt-crisis.html
Citigroup Inc. is purchasing
higher-yielding currencies before a resolution to the European
debt crisis, citing a long-term lack of dollar demand.  The U.S. currency’s rally in September was driven by the
safety appeal of Treasuries rather than other U.S. assets,
signaling an inherent weakness in the greenback, according to
Steven Englander, head of Group of 10 currency strategy at
Citigroup in  New York .  Treasury Department data released yesterday show foreign
private investors bought $70.1 billion of U.S. notes and bonds
in August, compared with purchases of $1.9 billion of corporate
bonds and $9.9 billion of agency bonds. They sold $6.6 billion
of equities. They sought refuge in Treasuries during the
financial turmoil that followed the Aug. 5 downgrade of  U.S.
debt  by  Standard & Poor’s .  “Investors aren’t buying the dollar because they like it,
but because in the worst of all worlds it remains the safest
asset, and once you exit from that world it’s the least
attractive,” Englander said in an interview. “We’ve positioned
ourselves to buy risk in the view that the small G-10 currencies
are going to rebound strongly once we get past this episode.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, rose 6.3 percent in September, the most since
October 2008. The gauge has lost 2.1 percent this month.  Frankfurt  Meeting  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  convened in Frankfurt to narrow divisions four
days before a weekend summit on the region’s sovereign debt
crisis.  Group of 20 finance chiefs last week set the Oct. 23
summit in Brussels as a deadline for action.  “As things stabilize in  Europe , there will be a return of
risk appetite,” Englander said. “You’re going to see the
dollar against emerging markets and the dollar against commodity
currencies probably reach new lows.”  Nomura Holdings Inc. recommended that investors sell the
Australian dollar versus its U.S. counterpart because global
risks are “skewing to the downside” before this weekend’s
European summit.  The firm sold $20 million of Australian dollars at $1.0325,
expecting the currency to weaken to 98 cents, Geoff Kendrick,
head of European currency strategy at Nomura International in
 London , wrote in a note to clients today. The firm added a
so-called stop-loss order at $1.0450 in case the currency
appreciates. Kendrick wasn’t available to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  