-- 
Citigroup Hires Cantor Fitzgerald’s Mike Brennan for High-Yield Bond Sales

-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 
2011-10-19T15:22:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/citigroup-hires-cantor-fitzgerald-s-mike-brennan-for-high-yield-bond-sales.html
Cantor Fitzgerald LP’s head of junk-
bond sales, Mike Brennan, is joining  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as the
third-biggest U.S. lender seeks to gain market share after
slipping to the fifth-most active underwriter of the debt.  Brennan, 44, a former walk-on football player at the
 University of Notre Dame  who was drafted by the  National
Football League ’s  Cincinnati Bengals , previously worked at  UBS
AG (UBSN) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , and joined Cantor’s broker-dealer
unit in February 2009. He will work as a high-yield salesman at
Citigroup, New York-based spokeswoman Danielle Romero-Apsilos
confirmed in an e-mail.  Citigroup, ranked in the top three high-yield underwriters
from 2003 to 2007, declined to seventh in the second half of
2010 with 7.4 percent market share after origination to trading
staff left the firm. The bank has arranged 8.6 percent of the
$207.5 billion of speculative-grade bond sales in the U.S. this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while profit rose
74 percent in the third quarter to $3.77 billion.  “This is another confirmation that Citi has repaired its
reputation,” said Richard Lipstein, a managing director for
Boyden Global Executive Search.  Brennan declined to comment and Sandra Lee, a Cantor
spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a telephone call or e-mails for
comment.  High-yield, high-risk debt is graded below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .
Issuance of the debt has fallen to $575 million in October, on
track to be the lowest volume since December 2008, Bloomberg
data show, after being on record pace for the first nine months
of this year. The debt has lost 5.5 percent since the end of
July, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Citigroup Departures  Citigroup declined in managing high-yield deals after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in September 2008 froze
credit markets and prompted a $45 billion injection from the
U.S. government. Vincent Lima, head of Citigroup’s high-yield
syndicate for 18 years, left in 2008, while Jonathan Calder, who
headed loan sales at the bank, also departed.  In May, the bank said it hired Christopher Abbate from UBS
as a managing director for its U.S. leveraged finance unit.  Brennan joined Cantor from UBS in 2009, when the firm hired
about 25 employees for its high-yield and distressed team in
less than four months, according to a company release from the
time. Cantor hasn’t managed any junk-bond sales in the U.S.
during the past three years, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Turtle’  Former  Notre Dame  coach Lou Holtz mentioned Brennan as 
a model for the power of positive thinking in his book, 
“Winning Every Day: The Game Plan for Success,” published 
by  HarperCollins Publishers  in 1998.  “After his first season, I doubted he would ever play for
us, but I liked having him on the team,” Holtz wrote. He was
nicknamed “Turtle” and “may have been the slowest athlete I
have ever coached,” he wrote.  Brennan impressed the coach as the first one on the field
and the last to leave, and rehearsed his assignments until he
had perfected them, Holtz wrote.  “Mike not only eventually won a starting position with us,
he went on to play four seasons as an offensive lineman in the
NFL,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  