-- 
Citigroup to Pay $285 Million to Settle SEC Claims on Mortgage-Linked CDO

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-10-19T18:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/citigroup-agrees-to-pay-285-million-over-sec-s-cdo-fraud-claims.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. lender, agreed to pay $285 million to settle U.S.
regulatory claims it misled investors about a $1 billion
financial product linked to risky mortgages that defaulted
within months of its sale.  Citigroup structured and sold the collateralized debt
obligation in 2007 without telling investors that it helped pick
about half the underlying assets and was betting they’d decline
in value, the Securities and Exchange Commission said in a
statement today.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  agreed to pay $2.5
million for its role in selecting the assets, the SEC said.  Citigroup’s settlement, the third-biggest penalty paid for
conduct related to the credit crisis, is the latest SEC action
against banks that bundled and sold securities linked to the
housing market. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. paid a record $550
million in 2010 for failing to tell investors that a hedge fund
that helped select a CDO’s assets was betting it would decline.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. paid $153.6 million in a similar matter in
June, and SEC officials have said more cases are on the horizon.  “Investors were not informed that Citigroup had decided to
bet against them and had helped choose the assets that would
determine who won or lost,”  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s
enforcement director, said in a statement.  Citigroup Profit  The approximately 15 clients in the deal known as Class V
Funding III lost virtually their entire investments. Citigroup
received about $34 million in fees and reaped about $126 million
in profits from the short position, according to the complaint.  The SEC also sued Brian Stoker, a former Citigroup employee
who the agency said was responsible for structuring the deal,
according to a complaint filed today at U.S. District Court in
 New York . Stoker’s attorney, Fraser Hunter, said his client will
“defend this lawsuit vigorously.”  Samir Bhatt, a former Credit Suisse portfolio manager,
agreed to pay $50,000 and a serve a six-month suspension from
association with any  investment adviser  for his role in the
transaction, the SEC said.  Around October 2006, Citigroup’s CDO desks had discussions
about the possibility of using credit default swaps to establish
a short position on assets from a CDO that Citigroup would
structure and market, the SEC said. After discussions began with
Credit Suisse to act as the collateral manager for a proposed
transaction, Stoker sent an e-mail to his supervisor describing
the short position as a proprietary trade that shouldn’t be
disclosed to Credit Suisse, according to the complaint.  Leverage  Deals such as Class V Funding III, which referenced other
CDOs, were designed to provide leveraged exposure to the housing
market and therefore magnified the severity of losses during the
crisis, the SEC said.  Credit Suisse allowed Citigroup to exercise significant
influence over the selection of assets, and nothing in the
disclosures put investors on notice that Citigroup had interests
that were adverse to the interests of CDO investors, the SEC
said in its complaint.  The SEC cited an e-mail from one unnamed CDO trader who
characterized the portfolio for the Citigroup deal as "dogsh!t”
and “possibly the best short EVER.”  Class V Funding III was in default less than nine months
after closing on Feb. 28, 2007, the SEC said.  ‘Not Responsible’  Ambac Financial Group Inc., whose bond-guarantee unit was
taken over by the state of  Wisconsin  last year shortly before
its own bankruptcy, sold insurance on $495 million of the deal,
according to a regulatory filing.  Stoker “was not responsible for any alleged wrongdoing --
he did not control or trade the position, did not prepare the
disclosures and did not select the assets,” Hunter said.  Bhatt’s lawyer, James Masella, declined to comment, as did
Steven Vames, a New York-based spokesman for Credit Suisse.
Citigroup, Credit Suisse and Bhatt didn’t admit or deny the
SEC’s claims.  “We are pleased to put this matter behind us and are
focused on contributing to the economic recovery, serving our
clients and growing responsibly,” Citigroup said in an e-mailed
statement.  Citigroup’s $285 million payment will be used to reimburse
investor losses, the SEC said.  The SEC’s June settlement with JPMorgan resolved claims it
failed to tell investors, including pension funds and a Lutheran
group, that hedge fund Magnetar Capital LLC helped pick assets
linked to a CDO it was betting against.  Separately,  Standard & Poor’s , the world’s largest provider
of credit ratings, said last month it may face SEC sanctions for
giving top grades to mortgage-backed securities before they
plummeted in value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  