-- 
Citigroup, Mcgraw-Hill Win Appeals in Suits Over Retirement Plan Holdings

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-10-19T17:08:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/citigroup-mcgraw-hill-win-appeals-in-retirement-plan-suits-1-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  and McGraw-Hill Cos.
won appeals-court decisions upholding dismissal of lawsuits
brought by employees claiming their retirement plans lost money
invested in company stock.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan upheld the
dismissals in companion rulings today. In 2009, U.S. District
Judge  Sidney Stein  in New York found that Citigroup, the third-
biggest U.S. lender, didn’t breach its duty to the workers by
offering Citigroup stock as an investment option. In February
2010, U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  ruled similarly in
favor of McGraw-Hill, the finance and media company that is
splitting into two.  The Citigroup plan fiduciaries “didn’t abuse their
discretion here,” the appeals court wrote in that ruling.  The Citigroup suit was filed on behalf of 150,000 employees
covered by two  retirement plans . The plaintiffs in the McGraw-
Hill case participated in one of two defined-contribution plans
offered by the company. Both cases were brought under the
federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, also
known as ERISA. Both companies are based in New York.  ‘Totally Disappointed’  “We’re totally disappointed with the decision,” Marc I. Machiz, a lawyer for the Citigroup employees, said in a phone
interview. “We’re disappointed both for the Citigroup employees
who are not going to get a remedy for their losses and because
the decision makes it difficult or impossible to get a remedy
from a company that mismanages its plan.”  Machiz, of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC in
Philadelphia, said it was likely the Citigroup plaintiffs would
ask the full appeals court to rehear the case.  Edwin Mills, a lawyer for the McGraw-Hill employees at
Stull, Stull & Brody in  New York , didn’t immediately return a
call for comment on the decision.  The Citigroup plaintiffs said the bank should have known
that investing in its own stock was imprudent and that it
breached its duty by not providing full information about its
exposure to subprime mortgages.  The McGraw-Hill plaintiffs claimed the company violated
fiduciary duties by offering employees its stock knowing the
shares were likely to fall over allegations its  Standard &
Poor’s  unit gave improperly high ratings to mortgage-backed
securities.  Company Stock  “We hold that the facts alleged by plaintiffs are, even if
proven, insufficient to establish that the defendants abused
their discretion by continuing to offer plan participants the
opportunity to invest in McGraw-Hill stock,” the appeals court
wrote in that case.  In his dissent in the 2-to-1 decisions, U.S. Circuit Judge
Chester J. Straub said the current and former Citigroup
employees invested in the plans “at the cajoling of
Citigroup,” which misrepresented its “dismal financial outlook
and its massive subprime exposure.”  Citigroup’s stock dropped by more than 74 percent over one
year for a market-value loss of more than $200 billion, Straub
said.  “Today’s majority opinion ensures that such losses will go
remediless,” he wrote.  The cases are Gray v. Citigroup Inc., 09-3804, and Gearren
v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 10-792, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 