-- 
Citigroup Said to Agree to Almost $300 Million SEC Deal

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-10-19T15:15:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/citigroup-said-to-settle-with-sec-for-300-million-over-mortgage-product.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  has agreed to pay
close to $300 million to resolve U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission claims that it misled investors about a financial
product linked to risky mortgages, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the matter.  The settlement is subject to approval by the SEC
commissioners, who were scheduled to vote on it today, the
person said, declining to be identified because the matter isn’t
public. One Citigroup executive and an employee from another
firm involved in the deal are also named in the SEC’s claims,
according to the person.  Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG was the firm
responsible for selecting assets for the collateralized debt
obligation in question, known as Class V Funding III, the person
said.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, and SEC spokeswoman Florence Harmon declined to
comment. Steven Vames, a New York-based spokesman for Credit
Suisse, declined to comment.  The agreement marks the latest in a string of SEC cases
related to complex financial products tied to subprime mortgages
that imploded as the housing market declined in 2007 and 2008.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. agreed to pay $550 million to resolve
claims it failed to tell investors in a mortgage-linked product
that a hedge fund betting against the CDO helped select the
underlying assets. JPMorgan Chase & Co. agreed to pay $153.6
million to resolve similar claims related to its sale of a CDO
in 2007.  The Wall Street Journal, which reported the proposed
settlement earlier today, said Credit Suisse would likely pay
less than $5 million to resolve the SEC’s claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  