-- 
Clinton Delivers U.S. Warning to Pakistan on Harboring Militants

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-10-20T20:02:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/clinton-in-kabul-to-bolster-political-track-to-end-conflict.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
arrived in Pakistan to deliver a U.S. warning that the nation
will pay “a very big price” if it fails to move against the
Islamic militants staging cross-border attacks against U.S.
forces in  Afghanistan .  Clinton flew to Islamabad from Afghanistan, where she said
yesterday that Pakistan needs to be “be part of the solution,”
not part of the problem. Pakistan, she said, must wipe out
sanctuaries for terrorists who attack across the border into
Afghanistan. U.S. and Afghan authorities say the militants enjoy
support from Pakistan’s intelligence services.  Clinton’s delegation included CIA Director David Petraeus;
the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Martin Dempsey; Lieutenant General Douglas Lute, a special assistant to
President  Barack Obama  on the Afghan war; and  Marc Grossman , the
State Department’s special representative to Afghanistan and
Pakistan. They were set to meet with Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani , General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, the Chief of Army
Staff, and Ahmad Shuja Pasha, head of the Inter-Services
Intelligence Directorate.  This is “a time for clarity. It is a time for people to
declare themselves as to how we are going to work together,”
Clinton said during a joint press conference with Afghan
President  Hamid Karzai  in front of the presidential palace in
Kabul. “We intend to push Pakistan very hard.”  “No one should be in any way mistaken about allowing this
to continue without paying a very big price,” Clinton said.  ‘Give Peace a Chance’  Gilani urged Clinton “to give peace a chance” during his
meeting with the U.S. delegation, according to a statement
issued by his office. The meeting’s atmosphere was “cordial and
frank” and Clinton “recognized the importance of Pakistan in
the context of peace and security in the region,” the statement
said.  The U.S. talks in Pakistan follow a year of heightened
tensions in U.S.-Pakistani relations, which spiked after the
U.S. commando assault into Pakistan that killed al-Qaeda leader
Osama bin Laden in May. Pakistani officials have said publicly
they worry that the U.S. might try a bigger military assault
into the country to attack bases of the guerrilla faction
founded by  Jalaluddin Haqqani .  Last month, Dempsey’s predecessor as U.S. military chief,
Admiral Mike Mullen, said the Haqqani faction of the Taliban
acts as a “veritable arm” of the ISI, Pakistan’s main spy
agency, and is fighting a “ proxy war ” in Afghanistan.  U.S. Offensive  In the past week, U.S. troops have conducted an offensive
against the Haqqani group in eastern Afghanistan 10 miles (16
kilometers) from the faction’s headquarters in the Pakistani
town of Miranshah.  Pakistani media reports this week have reflected concerns
from Pakistan’s leadership in Islamabad that the anti-militant
operation may bleed over the border onto Pakistan’s territory,
threatening its sovereignty and relations with the U.S.  Pakistan’s media also aired widespread complaints among
Pakistani leaders that the scolding they were getting from the
U.S. side -- especially Mullen’s congressional testimony last
month -- was unwarranted.  “Hillary Harps on Do-More Theme,” blared a headline this
week in the online version of The Nation newspaper from
Islamabad.  Haqqani Faction  The U.S. and Afghanistan say the Haqqani faction is
responsible for most of the recent high-profile attacks in
Kabul, including the attack on the U.S. embassy last month, the
attack on the Intercontinental Hotel in June, and earlier
attacks on the Kabul City Center shopping complex, the Serena
Hotel and the Indian Embassy.  Pakistan’s ambassador to Washington,  Husain Haqqani , who is
not related to the extremist group, said Oct. 19 that “Pakistan
and the  United States  have a shared interest in a stable
Afghanistan, but the major challenge for both the countries is
to find common ground” on how to achieve it.  Pakistan, Afghanistan and the U.S. must cooperate to fight
terrorists, talk to those militants who are willing to renounce
violence and build a better life for people on both sides of the
border, Clinton said.  Ties between Afghanistan and Pakistan, always rocky, hit a
new low following the assassination Sept. 20 of Afghanistan’s
chief peace envoy, Burhanuddin Rabbani, and an hours-long
assault on the U.S. embassy in Kabul Sept. 13. Most of the
increased attacks in the Afghan capital have been carried out by
the Haqqani network.  Afghan Attacks  Rabbani’s death at the hands of a suicide bomber, who posed
for months as a Taliban peace envoy, prompted Karzai to say
efforts to talk with the Taliban were pointless. He said
 Pakistan ’s government, which hosts the guerrillas on its
territory and thus can influence them, is in a better position
to assure war or peace in Afghanistan.  Clinton is seeking to breathe new life into the stalled
diplomatic process ahead of conferences in Istanbul Nov. 2 and
in Bonn Dec. 4 and 5 that will bring together nations offering
aid and committed to finding political solutions for
Afghanistan.  The Istanbul meeting will include Afghanistan’s neighbors
and others from the region to discuss economic cooperation as
well as training and equipping Afghan security forces.  The Bonn conference will convene envoys from 90 countries
and international organizations to assess development and aid
efforts 10 years following the ouster of the Taliban. The
nations also will plan for the transition from NATO command to
Afghan-led security by the end of 2014.  Obama in June announced that the first 10,000 U.S. troops
will leave Afghanistan by the end of this year, while the rest
of about 33,000 additional forces he added in a troop surge
announced in December 2009 would be out of Afghanistan by
September 2012. U.S. and NATO troops plan to end major combat
operations in Afghanistan by the end of 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  