-- 
Clinton in Oman for Talks on Iran, Protests Across Arab World

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-10-19T06:10:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/clinton-in-oman-for-talks-on-iran-protests-across-arab-world.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  is visiting Oman today to thank the Gulf state’s ruler
for his role in securing the release of three American hikers
jailed by  Iran , and to discuss efforts to meet demands for
greater economic and political freedoms in the sultanate.  Clinton will also hold talks with Sultan Qaboos bin Said al-Said on the recent alleged plot by Iran to assassinate the
Saudi ambassador to  Washington , and protests in nearby Syria and
Yemen that have claimed the lives of demonstrators as the
countries’ leaders cling to power, a U.S. official told
reporters traveling with the secretary of State.  The U.S. is seeking to exert pressure on Iran, which it
views as a rogue state that threatens global security, and Oman
is key to that effort as a rare U.S. ally that has a friendly
relationship with the government in Tehran, said the U.S.
official, who spoke on condition that his name not be used
because of the sensitive nature of the talks.  Qaboos was instrumental in the release last month of  Josh
Fattal  and  Shane Bauer , who spent two years imprisoned in Iran
on charges of illegal entry and espionage, and in last year’s
release of a third hiker,  Sarah Shourd .  Lawyers for the three said Oman arranged for $500,000 in
bail to be paid for each as a condition of their release. The
trio, who denied spying, said they were trekking in  Iraq  in July
2009 when they were beckoned to approach a guard who then
arrested them for illegal entry into neighboring Iran.  Arab Protests  Omanis in the city of Sohar, inspired by protests that have
spread across the Arab world and have unseated leaders in
Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya , held demonstrations in February
demanding more jobs and better pay. At least one person was
killed in clashes with security forces.  Qaboos held elections Oct. 15 for an 84-member Shura
Council that serves an advisory role to the sultan, Oman’s ruler
for the past four decades. In the wake of the protests, Qaboos
pledged to give the council greater powers, though none have
been announced.  The sultan also promised 50,000 new civil servant posts and
$2.6 billion in spending to create other jobs.  In last weekend’s vote, candidates were for the first time
allowed to campaign publicly through media and billboards. About
1,300 people contested the election, and the state-run Oman News
Agency reported that one woman was among those elected.  Clinton’s trip follows a brief visit yesterday to Libya,
where she discussed the transition to democracy following the
ouster of  Muammar Qaddafi .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan at in Muscat, Oman or
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  