-- 
Clinton’s Visit to Tripoli Lets Obama Show Critics Libya Results

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-10-19T14:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/clinton-s-visit-to-tripoli-lets-obama-show-critics-libya-results.html
The applause that greeted U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in Tripoli stands in contrast
to the months of criticism weathered by President  Barack Obama 
for a Libya strategy his opponents said amounted to seeking
victory on the cheap.  Obama drew fire from critics in Congress and concern from
the U.S. military for his March decision to use U.S. armed
forces to “lead from behind,” having them play a limited role
in the drive to force dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  from power. The
lead role was left to the Libyan rebel fighters, with
encouragement from the  United Nations Security Council  and the
 Arab League  and sustaining firepower from NATO allies and Qatar.  Seven months later, the strategy has paid off: Qaddafi is
in hiding, his forces have mostly given up and a new leadership
council is looking ahead to democratic elections.  Obama’s vow to aid the Libyan rebels solely from the air --
without committing U.S. boots on the ground -- avoided American
casualties and, at a price tag of $1.1 billion, cost less than
three days at the peak of the Iraq conflict, based on  data  from
the Congressional Research Service.  “I think, frankly, this has been a huge success for the
Obama approach to foreign policy, where he recognizes that we
have limited resources, we can’t be everywhere,” said David
Mack, a deputy assistant secretary of state for the Near East in
President Bill Clinton’s administration.  “You don’t always have to stand out in front of the
cameras and beat your chest in order to be successful in foreign
policy, and often it’s best if you don’t,” Mack said in a
telephone interview.  Critics ‘Proven Wrong’  Clinton yesterday became the most senior U.S. official to
visit  Libya  since rebel forces ended Qaddafi’s 42-year reign and
ushered in an era the Obama administration hopes will mean
stability and development for a country that holds the largest
crude-oil reserves in  Africa .  The results thus far, even though the conflict extended
longer than the allies anticipated, prompted Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta  to declare on a visit to  Italy  two weeks ago that
“the critics have been proven wrong.”  Clinton was greeted enthusiastically by former rebel
fighters who thronged around her at the airport, flashing
victory signs, posing for photos and thanking the U.S. for
support. During the 5 1/2-hour visit, she was greeted
enthusiastically at each stop.  Still, along with applause, Clinton’s party heard the
sounds of gunfire in the Libyan capital, and she stressed that
the transition is only beginning as she warned Libyans against
“revenge and score-settling.”  Alternate Scenario  The duration of the military campaign might have been
shortened by a U.S. decision to send in a limited number of
ground forces to aid the rebels, said retired General Jack
Keane, a member of the advisory Defense Policy Board and former
U.S. Army vice chief of staff.  “From a military perspective, I think it was anything but
a success because we never used the right kind of forces to get
the desired impact,” Keane said in a telephone interview. “As
a result of that, the war was protracted and the casualties
lingered on for months longer than they needed to.”  Even the $1.1 billion the U.S. Defense Department spent on
the Libya operation as of Sept. 30 surpassed an estimate sent to
Congress earlier this year that the operations would cost $800
million by that point.  Air Power  The mission also exposed weaknesses in the capabilities of
U.S. allies in NATO, prompting the Pentagon to fill their
shortfalls by selling them more than $250 million of munitions,
repair parts, fuel, technical assistance and other support. The
U.S. fired Tomahawk cruise missiles early in the operation to
shut down air defenses, and U.S. warplanes and support aircraft
provided attack, surveillance and support operations.  The Libya operation wasn’t the first time the U.S. and its
NATO allies successfully deployed their air power to back up
indigenous ground forces, said retired Air Force Lieutenant
General David Deptula. He cited the opening days of the U.S.
invasion of  Afghanistan , backing the Northern Alliance against
the Taliban, and a similar strategy less than three years
earlier to drive the Serbian forces of  Slobodan Milosevic  from
 Kosovo  in the Balkan wars.  “Modern air power eliminated the effectiveness of the
Libyan army and provided the weakly organized and poorly
equipped Qaddafi opponents the ability to defeat his loyalist
army and unseat his 40-plus-years governing regime,” Deptula
said.  Business Opportunities  With a new government, a modernizing Libya will prove a
“tremendous opportunity” for American business interests, said
retired Ambassador Charles Cecil, who served as charge
d’affaires in Tripoli from 2006 to 2007. The potential goes
beyond exploring for and refining oil to the projects the
country is bound to pursue with its energy wealth, he said.  “It will create many, many job opportunities for American
firms as Libya rebuilds the country and then moves on beyond the
rebuilding,” Cecil said in a telephone interview. “Libya has
the oil money to have first-rate medical care, first-rate
infrastructure, first-rate communications. But those areas had
been neglected under Qaddafi.”  New York City-based  Hess Corp. (HES) ,  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) 
of  Los Angeles , and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  Co. of Houston,  Texas , are
among American companies that had invested in Libya’s energy
production before the revolt. Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) 
provided energy, engineering and construction services.  ‘Lessons to Learn’  With no political parties in Libya, no labor unions and no
non-governmental organizations that weren’t controlled by the
regime, the emerging Libyan leadership will need help to
establish the necessary institutions of a democratic civil
society, Cecil said.  Anthony Cordesman , a military analyst at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies research group in
Washington, cautioned that, while the military operation in
Libya may be nearing an end, the test of success is more long
term. As in Iraq and Afghanistan, that depends on the prospects
for a functioning government, unified security forces, stability
and economic and social development, he said.  “There are important lessons to learn,” Cordesman said.
“There are a lot more to come.”  Clinton offered a similar warning to the Libyans.  “Now the hard part begins,” she said after meeting senior
officials from the interim National Transitional Council.  NTC Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil told reporters in Benghazi
today that Qaddafi still poses a threat. He “has not yet been
captured and he still has the money that forms a threat to us,”
Abdel Jalil said. “This is a truth that all Libyans should be
aware of: Qaddafi is still alive and still represents a
threat.”  The coming period will be “difficult,” Abdel Jalil said,
due to a lack of security and enough funds to meet some of the
country’s needs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  