-- 
Cobham Boosts Its Takeover Allure With Disposal, Espirito Says

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-10-19T10:55:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/cobham-boosts-its-takeover-allure-with-disposal-espirito-says.html
Cobham Plc (COB) ’s sale of a missile-
testing and consultancy unit to Parsons Corp. for $350 million
could unleash takeover interest from weapons makers including
Raytheon Co. and Lockheed Martin Corp., according to Banco
Espirito Santo SA analyst Edward Stacey.  A recent change in U.S. tender rules transformed Cobham’s
2008 purchase of Sparta Inc. into a stumbling block for any
suitor because supplying equipment as well as advice on
procurement posed a possible conflict of interest, Stacey said.  “If Raytheon, Lockheed Martin or whoever was looking at
buying Cobham, than Sparta would have been a bit of a poison
pill for them,” Stacey said by telephone today. He has a
‘neutral’ rating on the stock.  Cobham, which supplies defense electronics and surveillance
equipment, has a strong niche position and relatively small
market value, meaning it could attract bids, Goldman Sachs
analyst  David Perry  said in a note yesterday. BAE Systems Plc
and European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. are among companies
seeking to buy technology-based companies to diversify into
higher-growth markets.  The price obtained for the subsidiary was about $100
million more than expected, an indication that there’s still
appetite for defense assets, according to  Sandy Morris , an
analyst at Royal Bank of  Scotland .  Cobham rose 7.7 pence, or 4.5 percent, to 180 pence at
11:51 a.m. in London trading, giving the company a market value
of 1.9 billion pounds ($1.6 billion).  Competitive Tender  Parsons came out on top in the auction of Sparta, which
Cobham renamed Analytic Solutions. The unit gives technical
advice on how to use a missile to shoot down incoming ones, as
well as supplying software solutions to U.S. homeland security
bodies. In 2010, it secured a contract related to the U.S.
Ballistic Missile Defense Systems.  For Cobham, the divestment was “a bit of a forced”
transaction, Stacey said, diluting earnings by an expected 5
percent. Within the industry, large global weapons makers are
rejigging their portfolios, selling some businesses and
expanding others to dodge defense cuts in the U.S. and  Europe .  At Raytheon, Chief Executive Officer Bill Swanson has
stepped up acquisitions and targeted international sales to
boost revenue as U.S. defense spending is projected to decline
in the next decade.  Cobham’s proceeds will be reinvested in existing markets
where the company has a bigger market share and a competitive
edge, it said.  “In so far as a reminder that a lot of people still see
some value in defense businesses, then you could say Cobham
itself will be looked at hard,” said Morris, who has a ‘buy’
rating on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  