-- 
Coffee Exporters in Vietnam Told to Avoid Forward Sales as Harvest Begins

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-19T08:34:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/coffee-shippers-in-vietnam-told-to-avoid-forward-sales-by-state.html
Coffee exporters in  Vietnam , set to
ship a record harvest, are being urged not to sign so-called
forward contracts unless they have beans in hand after some
companies didn’t honor deals earlier this year as prices jumped.  “We have told state-owned coffee companies to not sell
forward when they don’t have actual coffee,” Deputy Minister
for Agriculture and Rural Development Diep Kinh Tan said by
phone today. The Vietnam Coffee & Cocoa Association, or Vicofa,
has been asked to give private firms the same advice, he said.  Most output in Vietnam, the largest grower of robusta used
in espressos, is grown by smallholders, who sell their beans to
middlemen and exporters. Shippers delayed or canceled as much as
60,000 tons of exports from the last crop in June and July as
prices rose, according to Sucafina, a Geneva-based trader.  “The coffee association and the agricultural ministry have
told local coffee companies to not sign future contracts with
long deliveries,” Nguyen Van An, general director at Thai Hoa
Production & Trading Corp. and a  Vicofa  board member, said by
phone on Oct. 13. The aim is to avoid a repetition of the “bad
experiences in the last crop,” An said.  Robusta on NYSE Liffe in  London  -- which rose 15 percent in
the first quarter, and touched a three-year high of $2,672 per
metric ton on March 18 -- ended at $1,886 per ton yesterday. In
Vietnam, the local price leapt 39.5 percent to 51,600 dong
($2.46) per kilogram in June from the start of the year,
according to data from the Dak Lak Trade and Tourism Center.  Biggest Harvest  Many companies signed forward contracts after the last crop,
Tran Hieu, vice chairman of the Provincial People’s Committee in
 Dak Lak , Vietnam’s largest growing region, said Sept. 30. When
the price went up, they defaulted to avoid collapse, Hieu said.  Output from this harvest, which started this month, may
reach a record 1.32 million tons, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 12 growers, traders and
exporters in September. That compares with 1.17 million tons
last year, according to a central government report on Oct. 3.  “We will do outright trading only, not forward trading,
for this crop given the complicated development of international
coffee prices,” Cao Van Tu, director of Dak Lak-based Ea Pok
Coffee Co., said Oct. 14. Outright deals involve beans in hand.  Traders in Vietnam have sold about 667,000 bags from the
2011-2012 season, about half the total at the same time last
year, F.O. Licht said in a report Oct. 5. About 5 percent of
Vietnamese exporters have signed forward contracts from this
harvest, compared with 15 percent to 20 percent last year, said
An at Thai Hoa Production. A bag weighs 60 kilograms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  