-- 
Colombia Peso Bond Yields Rise on Bets Rain Will Stoke Inflation

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-10-19T20:18:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/colombia-peso-bond-yields-rise-on-bets-rain-will-stoke-inflation.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds fell, pushing
yields to their steepest rise in two weeks, amid concern
inflation will quicken this month as heavier-than-average rain
leads to an increase in food prices.  The yield on Colombia’s benchmark 10 percent bonds due in
July 2024 rose six basis point, or 0.06 percentage point, to
7.52 percent. The bond’s price dropped 0.543 centavo to 119.839
centavos per peso.  “The market is beginning to show signs of concern
regarding inflation,” said Daniel Escobar, an analyst at
brokerage Global Securities in Bogota. “Inflation may quicken
beyond the central bank’s 4 percent target, but we see this as
temporary and it should fall within the target by year-end.”  Escobar predicts an increase in food prices this month will
lead annual inflation to quicken to 4.03 percent in October
before ending the year at 3.7 percent. The central bank targets
inflation between 2 percent and 4 percent this year.  Colombia’s second rainy season began in mid-September and
will last through mid-December, the nation’s weather agency said
in a Sept. 26 statement. Rain in the first half of October was
equivalent to the historical average for the whole month,
according to an Oct. 15 statement on the presidential website
which quoted the weather agency. Floods last year and at the
beginning of this year damaged crops and choked off farmers’
supply routes, pushing food prices higher.  Currency Trading Limit  Colombia’s consumer prices rose 0.31 percent in September
from the previous month, driven by higher housing and food
costs, after declining 0.03 percent in August. The government
will release the October inflation report Nov. 5.  The gap between yields on government inflation-indexed
bonds due 2013 and similar-maturity fixed-rate debt, a gauge of
annual consumer price increase expectations known as the
breakeven rate, rose to 3.36 percentage points today from 2.8
percentage points a month ago.  Economists covering the Colombian economy raised their
year-end inflation forecast to 3.42 percent this month from 3.23
percent in the September survey, according to the median
forecast in a central bank survey published Oct. 12.  The peso was little changed at 1,902.43 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 1,903 yesterday. It has dropped 4.6 percent in the last
year as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening prompted
investors to shun higher-yielding, emerging-market assets.  Colombia imposed a limit on foreign-exchange trading by
pension funds as it seeks to reduce the peso’s volatility after
the global market sell-off sparked a plunge in the currency.  Pension funds’ currency transactions over a five-day period
can equal no more than 2.5 percent of their assets under
management, the  Finance Ministry  said in a  statement  today. The
measure limits trading in the  spot market  as well as derivatives
trading, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  