-- 
Commercial Bank of Kuwait Third-Quarter Net Declines 65%

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-10-19T12:36:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/commercial-bank-of-kuwait-third-quarter-net-declines-65-1-.html
Commercial Bank of Kuwait SAK (CBK) , the
country’s third-largest lender, posted a 65 percent decline in
third-quarter profit amid weak  government spending  and a
“sluggish” performance of stocks.  Net income fell to 6.8 million dinars ($24.7 million), or
5.4 fils a share, from 19.6 million dinars, or 15.4 fils per
share, in the year-earlier period, the bank said in a statement
to the  Kuwait  Stock Exchange today.  “The downward trend is still predominating the performance
of Kuwait’s economy as a result of weak government spending,
sluggish performance of the Kuwait Stock Exchange and related
negative impact on asset values,” Commercial Bank said in an e-
mailed statement, citing Chairman Ali Yousef Al-Awadhi.
“Improvement in the economic and business environment will
positively reflect on the banking sector.”  The global credit crisis weakened lending and investment
banking in the  Middle East , pushing up provisions for loan
defaults and led to a decline in the value of banks’
investments. Kuwait raised spending by about 11 percent to 19.44
billion dinars in the fiscal year that started April 1 as it
steps up a $112 billion four-year development program that aims
to boost energy output and modernize infrastructure.  Total assets reached 3.75 billion dinars at the end of
September, Commercial bank said. The lender had a 14.9 percent
rise in third quarter operating profit to 78.9 million dinars
before provisions.  “This was allocated as provisions against the loan and
investment portfolios,” resulting in net profit of 8.3 million
dinars in the first nine months of the year, the bank said.  National Bank of Kuwait (NBK)  SAK, the country’s biggest bank, on
Oct. 12 reported a 0.5 percent fall in third-quarter profit to
78.9 million dinars amid a weak operating environment.  Commercial Bank expects profit to drop this year as the
lender “cleans up” its balance-sheet after setting aside money
to cover bad assets, acting chief executive officer Elham Mahfouz said in an interview in June.  Commercial Bank shares have lost almost 11 percent this
year, compared to a 15.4 percent decline in Kuwait’s benchmark
index. The stock fell 4.7 percent to 820 fils at the close in
Kuwait today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  