-- 
Company Campaign Giving to Candidates Should Be Limited, U.S. Tells Court

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-19T23:10:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/company-campaign-giving-to-candidates-should-be-limited-u-s-tells-court.html
A judge’s ruling that a century-old
ban on direct corporate donations to federal candidates was
unconstitutional is “wholly illogical” and should be thrown
out to prevent public corruption, U.S. prosecutors said.  The Justice Department today asked the U.S. Court of
Appeals in Richmond,  Virginia , to reinstate criminal charges
against two fundraisers for political campaigns of  Hillary Clinton , who is now secretary of state.  U.S. District Judge James Cacheris in Alexandria, Virginia,
dismissed some of the charges after ruling that the  Supreme
Court ’s Citizens United decision in 2010, which gave
corporations the same rights as individuals to spend money
independently to support candidates, also meant they can make
campaign donations directly to candidates as long as they comply
with general legal limits.  “Individual corporate officers are subject to those valid
contribution limits, but they could easily evade those limits if
given the opportunity to funnel contributions through a
corporation,” prosecutors argued in today’s filing.  Individuals this year can give $2,500 to a candidate for
each election.  Prosecutors argue corporations are free to “have a voice
in elections” by contributing money to federal candidates
through PACs.  Presidential Campaign  The fundraisers, William P. Danielczyk Jr., chairman of
McLean, Virginia-based Galen Capital Group LLC, and Eugene R.
Biagi, its secretary and treasurer, were indicted for improperly
reimbursing $186,600 to donors in Clinton’s 2008 presidential
campaign. Cacheris threw out the charge that they illegally
funneled money from Galen Capital to the campaign.  Danielczyk and Biagi were charged in the indictment with
conspiracy, obstruction of justice and causing false statements
to be made. The indictment also covers Clinton’s 2006 Senate
race.  Jeffrey Lamken, the lead lawyer for the defendants on the
appeal, didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment on
the government’s filing. The defendants are scheduled to file
their response next month.  The criminal case has been put on hold while the appeals
court decides the campaign finance issue. The Richmond court has
yet to schedule arguments in the matter.  Bans on direct corporate donations to candidates go back to
the Tillman Act of 1905. The 2002 campaign finance law
prohibited contributions known as “soft money” from corporate
and union treasuries to the political parties.  The case is U.S. v. Danielczyk, 11-4667,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  