-- 
ConAgra, Tyson Among Companies Pledging to Hire U.S. Veterans

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-10-19T19:16:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/conagra-tyson-among-companies-pledging-to-hire-u-s-veterans.html
President  Barack Obama , promoting
his jobs plan in  Virginia , said a group of 270 companies
including  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  and  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  has pledged to
hire 25,000 military veterans and spouses by the end of 2013.  The commitment, made by a trade association of companies
that supply goods to military bases for facilities such as
commissaries and exchanges, represents a quarter of the target
for private-sector hiring of veterans that Obama announced in
August.  “There are far too many veterans who are coming home and
having to struggle to find a job worthy of their talents,”
Obama said today at Joint Base Langley-Eustis in Hampton,
Virginia. “The last thing you should have to do is fight for a
job when you come home -- not here, not in the  United States of
America .”  The stop came on the final day of the president’s bus tour
through North Carolina and Virginia to promote his economic
proposals. Obama has used the three-day trip to sharpen his
attacks against Republicans in Congress, who have blocked his
$447 billion package of tax cuts and  government spending 
intended to reignite growth and hiring.  Obama said more needs to be done beyond the commitments by
businesses to hire veterans. Included in his proposal was a
measure giving companies tax credits of $2,400 to $9,600 to hire
veterans who’ve been unemployed for more than six months or are
disabled. The administration’s strategy now is to seek votes on
individual components of the broader plan.  Seeking a Vote  “When I first proposed this idea in a joint session of
Congress, people stood up and applauded on both sides of the
aisle,” Obama said of the tax credits to hire veterans. “So
when it comes for a vote in the Senate, I expect to get votes
from both sides of the aisle.”  Republicans have a majority in the  House of
Representatives , and their 47 votes in the Senate are enough
under the chamber’s rules to derail consideration of
legislation. They have rejected the tax increases proposed to
pay for Obama’s plan, which includes aid to states and
infrastructure repairs.  Today’s announcement on veteran hiring was part of an
initiative the president outlined in August. First lady  Michelle Obama , who joined the president at the base, said the pledge by
the companies marks the largest coordinated effort by the
private sector to hire veterans and their spouses in years.
“They do not want to miss out on your potential,” she said.  ‘Good for Business’  The companies aren’t just making these pledges because it’s
“the right thing to do,” Michelle Obama said. “They’re also
doing it because it’s good for their bottom line, it’s good for
business.”  Among the companies making commitments,  Sears Holdings
Corp. (SHLD)  is increasing the number of veterans and spouses in their
workforce by 10 percent, according to the first lady, and the
Chamber of Commerce is hosting jobs fairs for veterans in cities
across the nation.  Kmart, a unit of Sears, and Sam’s Club, a unit of  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  have promised the administration that if a military
spouse working at one of their stores must move, “they will do
their very best to have a job waiting for them when they
arrive,” Michelle Obama said.  The commitment by the American Logistics Association, which
represents companies that sell goods and services available at
military commissaries, exchanges and centers, is “just going to
be the beginning,” Patrick Nixon, the group’s president, said
yesterday on a conference call.  Unemployment  Unemployment among veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan
outpaces that of civilians by almost 3 percentage points. In
September, it was 11.7 percent.  With the national jobless rate hovering at or above 9
percent for the more than two years, the economy will be a
central issue as Obama seeks re-election in 2012.  The bus trip has carried Obama through two Republican-
leaning states that he won in 2008. He is trying to hold both
next year, especially as he will likely be battling to keep
swing states such as Ohio and  Pennsylvania  in the Democratic
column. Together,  North Carolina  and Virginia have 28 of the 270
electoral votes needed to win the presidency.  During a stop later at a firehouse in Chesterfield,
Virginia, Obama focused on parts of his plan that call for
spending $35 billion for state aid to keep teachers and
emergency worker on the job that he and Senate Democratic
leaders want to bring for a vote first.  Government Jobs  While the private sector has been adding jobs over the last
19 months, state and local governments have been shedding
workers, he said.  “Keeping first responders on the job, that’s a jobs
plan,” he said. “Keeping more teachers in the classroom,
that’s a job’s plan,” Obama told the group of firefighters.  He said Republicans are proposing to roll back clean air
and water rules and regulation of financial institutions. “That
is not a jobs plan,” he said.  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said
Obama and the Democrats are focused more on raising taxes and
federal spending.  ‘This is the third time in three years the President’s
asked us to bail out the states,’’ McConnell said in remarks on
the Senate floor today. “How many more times -- and how many
more billions -- before someone realizes it’s a bad idea?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  