-- 
Consumers to Switch Banks Over Debit Fees

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-10-19T17:29:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/consumers-say-they-ll-switch-banks-over-debit-fees-study-finds.html
About 30 percent of U.S. consumers
said they’d leave their banks over fees for using their  debit
cards , according to a survey by the Research Intelligence Group.  About 43 percent said they’d switch to paying with cash or
credit cards if their bank implemented charges, while 13 percent
said they’d pay the fee if it was “reasonable,” according to
the survey released yesterday by the  Fort Washington ,
Pennsylvania-based consulting and market-strategy firm.  “There’s a lot of consumer discontent within financial
services and I think there’s a lot of frustration,” said Rob
Kaplan-Sherman, president of the services division of the
Research Intelligence Group, a unit of Montreal-based Leger
Marketing. “People express that they’re going to change their
behavior, and that includes changing how and where they bank.”  The survey comes as the largest banks, including  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , are testing or planning to start charging fees of
as much as $5 a month for consumers who have a debit card or use
one for purchases.  Low- to middle-income consumers are more likely to pay the
fees, according to the survey. About 22 percent of those
consumers, defined as those households earning $35,000 to
$49,000 a year, would be willing to pay the fee, compared with
14 percent of consumers whose households earn $100,000 or more.  “Less-affluent populations often feel like they have fewer
options at their disposal,” Kaplan-Sherman said.  Attract Business  Bank of America, the nation’s second-largest bank by
assets, next year plans to start charging some debit-card users
a monthly fee of $5 if they use the cards for purchases.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  began testing a $3 monthly fee for certain
customers with debit cards in two states in February.  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  this month began testing a $3 monthly debit-card
usage fee among certain customers. U.S. Bancorp, the nation’s
fifth-largest commercial bank, said today it has no plans to
implement a fee for customers’ debit-card use.  The new debit charge may attract business by encouraging
customers to use more of the banks’ services in order to avoid
the fee,  Brian T. Moynihan , chief executive officer of Bank of
America, said in a conference call yesterday.  Florida state Representative Jeff Clemens this week offered
a bill that would ban banks, at the state level, from charging
customers for using or having a debit card.  Representative Brad Miller, a member of the House Financial
Services Committee and a Democrat from  North Carolina , earlier
this month introduced a bill that would prohibit banks from
imposing fees on people who close accounts.  ‘Arbitrary’ Charge  Banks should drop their plans to add debit fees and
consumers should consider changing banks if they don’t, the
 Consumers Union  said in a press release yesterday.  “Consumers should not be required to pay a costly fee that
appears to be arbitrary,” said Norma Garcia, senior attorney
for Consumers Union, in a letter to Bank of America’s Moynihan
included in the press release. “This fee is especially
egregious, imposed as it is during a weak economy, when many
consumers are struggling to keep afloat.” Consumers Union is a
nonprofit consumer advocacy group based in Yonkers,  New York ,
and the publisher of Consumer Reports magazine.  Opening Accounts  Consumers who say they’ll switch banks may run into
problems. About 53 percent of Americans who applied to open a
checking account online this year succeeded in opening and
funding an account, according to a study released yesterday by
Javelin Strategy & Research, a market-research firm.  Broken links and a lack of information on bank websites may
have contributed to some consumers’ inability to open an
account, the survey said. The remaining 47 percent were either
unable to fund an account, abandoned the process or said their
applications were rejected.  “Consumers are much more likely to complain than to
actually switch,” said Mark Schwanhausser, senior analyst for
Pleasanton, California-based Javelin.  About 7 percent of consumers changed banks in the 12 months
through March, compared with 12 percent during the same period
the year before, he said.  Since Oct. 1, banks may receive no more than 21 cents per
transaction plus 5 basis points of the purchase price for debit-
card transactions, and may collect an additional 1 cent per
transaction if they adhere to certain fraud-prevention measures,
according to a  rule  issued by the  Federal Reserve  in June. The
rule will cost the industry about $8 billion annually in lost
revenue, according to Bloomberg Government. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  Low Awareness  About 10 percent of those questioned said they believe they
currently pay a monthly fee on their checking account, the
survey from the Research Intelligence Group said. By comparison
about 55 percent of non-interest checking accounts charge fees,
according to a study released last month by Bankrate.com, the
online consumer-rate provider.  “There’s such a heightened level of awareness of fees
right now that it’s become a topic of great sensitivity,”
Kaplan-Sherman said. “But generally speaking, consumer
awareness of fees is very, very low.”  The Research Intelligence Group surveyed 1,000 U.S. adults
online in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 