-- 
Consumer Prices Rise at Slow Pace

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-10-19T12:54:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/consumer-prices-in-u-s-rise-0-3-marking-slowest-pace-in-three-months.html
The cost of living in the U.S. rose
in September at the slowest pace in three months, signaling
inflation may moderate as Federal Reserve officials have
predicted.  The consumer-price index climbed 0.3 percent from the prior
month, in line with the median projection of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News, a report from the Labor Department showed
today in  Washington . Excluding volatile food and fuel costs, the
so-called core rose 0.1 percent, less than forecast and the
smallest gain since March.  Companies like clothing retailer  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and supermarket
chain  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  have said they are limited in how much they
can raise prices to recoup raw materials costs as weak job and
income gains squeeze consumers. With inflation less of a
concern, Fed policy makers would have the flexibility to take
additional steps should the world’s largest economy stumble.  “Inflation is playing out according to the Fed’s script,”
said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in
 West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “The economy is sluggish and
businesses are very hesitant to pass on higher input costs to
consumers. Consumers are very price sensitive right now.  The biggest drop in clothing prices since 1998, lower costs
for used cars and trucks and the smallest increase in rents in
four months led to the moderation in core prices last month.  Starts Jump  Builders began work on more homes than forecast in
September on rising demand for apartments and condominiums as
the housing slump prompts more Americans to become renters,
another report showed today. Housing starts jumped 15 percent to
a 658,000 annual rate, up the most since April 2010, according
to data from the Commerce Department.  Nonetheless, building permits, a proxy for future
construction, declined to a five-month low, indicating
foreclosures that are adding to the supply of unsold homes and
depressing property values may continue to hold back developers.  Stock-index futures trimmed earlier losses after the
reports. The contract on the Standard & poor’s 500 Index
expiring in December fell 0.1 percent to 1,221.8 at 8:51 a.m. in
 New York .  Treasury securities  declined, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up to 2.20 percent from 2.18 percent late
yesterday.  Today’s consumer-price report also suggested the estimated
monthly payment for retired workers receiving Social Security
benefits will rise 3.6 percent in 2012.  Survey Results  The forecast gain in consumer prices was based on the
median of 79 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Estimates ranged
from no change to a gain of 0.4 percent.  Economists had forecast a 0.2 percent gain in core prices,
according to the survey median.  Overall consumer prices increased 3.9 percent in the 12
months ended September, the biggest year-over-year increase
since September 2008.  The core CPI climbed 2 percent from September 2010, the
same as in the 12 months ended August. Fed policy makers aim for
long-run core inflation of about 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  Today’s report showed energy costs increased 2 percent from
a month earlier.  Fuel expenses may go down this month. The cost of a gallon
of regular gasoline at the pump, which averaged $3.58 in
September, dropped to $3.47 yesterday.  Clothing prices dropped 1.1 percent, the biggest decline
since September 1998, today’s report showed. Used cars and
trucks cost 0.6 percent less.  Rents Moderate  Today’s report also showed owners-equivalent rent, one of
the categories designed to track rental prices, climbed 0.1
percent, the smallest gain since May, after rising 0.2 percent
in August.  It may be difficult to keep rental costs down. The vacancy
rate for apartments dropped in the third quarter to 5.6 percent,
the lowest since 2006, according to an Oct. 6 report from Reis
Inc. Effective rents, or what tenants pay after landlord
giveaways are included, rose on a year-over-year basis in 81 out
of the 82 metropolitan areas tracked by the New York-based
property-research company.  Most Fed officials at the Sept. 20-21 meeting anticipated
core and headline inflation was “likely to settle, over coming
quarters, at or below the levels they see as most consistent
with their dual mandate,” according to minutes released on Oct.
12.  Fed View  “With stable inflation expectations, significant slack in
labor and product markets, slow wage growth, and little evidence
of pricing power among firms, inflation was likely to decline
moderately over time,” the minutes said. Participants also saw
“considerable uncertainty surrounding the outlook for a gradual
pickup in economic growth.”  The outlook on inflation is in sync with retailers’ moves.
A jump in cotton expenses hurt Gap’s Old Navy stores that sell
more clothing made of the material, yet it “chose not to raise
prices commensurate with cost given the impact of the tough
economy on our customers,” Chief Financial Officer Sabrina Simmons said on a conference call with analysts on Oct. 13.  Steven Burd, chairman and chief executive officer of
Safeway, said inflation was “predominantly in perishable
categories” and fuel, while there were “a couple of categories
that actually had deflation.” Shoppers at the Pleasanton,
California-based company remain “very conscious” of the price
tag, he said.  The CPI is the broadest of three price gauges from the
Labor Department because it includes goods and services. Almost
60 percent of the index covers prices consumers pay for services
ranging from medical visits to airline fares, movie tickets and
rents.  A report yesterday showed producer prices rose 0.8 percent
in September, while the import-price index, released last week,
climbed 0.3 percent. The pipeline pressures, reflecting a surge
in raw materials expenses earlier this year, may wane as slower
global growth subdues demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra at   schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski at   akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  