-- 
Copper Drops Most in Three Weeks as European Debt, China May Erode Demand

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-10-19T18:11:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/copper-drops-for-a-third-day-as-europe-s-debt-crisis-may-cut-into-demand.html
Copper futures fell the most in
three weeks on concern that demand will ease as  Europe ’s debt
crisis persists and economic growth slows in  China , the world’s
largest metal buyer.  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday cut Spain’s credit
rating for a third time since June 2010 as the region’s fiscal
woes weigh on the country’s economy. Gross domestic product in
China expanded in the third quarter at the slowest pace since
2009. Copper has slumped 30 percent from a record $4.6575 a
pound on Feb. 15.  “Copper is under pressure because of a theme of slowing
economies throughout the world,”  Frank Lesh , a trader at
FuturePath Trading in Chicago, said in a telephone interview.
“Prices will need to go lower to attract Chinese buyers as
there’s ample supply” in the country, he said.  Copper futures for December delivery dropped 3 percent to
close at $3.258 at 1:16 p.m. on the Comex in  New York , the
biggest loss for a most-active contract since Sept. 28.  “Full-scale restocking might not kick in until the first
quarter of 2012” in China,  Andrey Kryuchenkov , a London-based
analyst at VTB Capital, said in a report. “Also, we shall need
some clarity on the euro-zone bailout, so that we avoid growth
stagnation and another panic equity selloff.”  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell 3.2 percent to $7,210 a metric ton ($3.27 a pound).  Aluminum, zinc, nickel and lead also declined in London.
Tin rose 2.7 percent, the first gain in a week, after
Indonesia’s PT Timah, the biggest exporter, said it will delay
resuming shipments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  