-- 
Sovereign, Company Default Swaps Fall in Europe Amid Debt Crisis Optimism

-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h a n a h a n
-- 
2011-10-19T09:49:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/corporate-bond-risk-falls-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Credit-default swaps insuring
government and company bonds fell on optimism European policy
makers will come up with a plan to help resolve the region’s
debt crisis.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of contracts linked to 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 18 basis
points to 733, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 10:30 a.m.
in  London . The Markit iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index of swaps
on 15 governments declined 18 basis points to 316.  Investors are betting this weekend’s meeting of European
leaders will advance plans to insulate  Italy  and  Spain  from the
sovereign crisis and boost bank capital. The  Guardian newspaper 
reported that Germany and  France  agreed to increase the
firepower of the European Financial Stability Facility bailout
fund.  “Timing remains a major issue as the changes are unlikely
to be implemented quickly,” Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income
strategist at broker Newedge Group in London, wrote in a note.
“Meanwhile further market volatility should be expected.”  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings was down 4.75 basis points at 174.25.
The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of 25
banks and insurers declined 8.5 basis points to 240.5 and the
subordinated gauge was nine basis points lower at 475.  The cost of insuring debt sold by  Germany  fell, with
credit-default swaps tied to Europe’s largest economy declining
five basis points to 89, the lowest since Sept. 16.  Spain Debt Risk  Default swaps on Spain dropped even after the nation’s
credit rating was cut for the third time in 13 months by Moody’s
Investors Service. The contracts declined 10 basis points to
370, according to data provider CMA.  “Moody’s is maintaining a negative outlook on Spain’s
rating to reflect the downside risks from a potential further
escalation of the euro-area crisis,” the New York-based firm
said in a statement. It cited the “continued vulnerability of
Spain to market stress” that is driving up the cost of
borrowing, as well as weaker growth prospects.  Swaps on France fell five basis points to 182 and Italy
dropped 13 basis points to 439. Declines signal improving
investor perceptions of  credit quality .  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.8 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Shanahan in London at 
 Mshanahan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  