-- 
Cost of Living Probably Moderated in September in Sign Inflation May Ease

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-10-19T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/cost-of-living-in-the-u-s-probably-moderated-in-september.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably eased September, a sign inflation may moderate as
Federal Reserve officials have forecast, economists said before
a report today.  Consumer prices climbed 0.3 percent, the smallest gain in
three months, according to the median forecast of 78 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Separate data may show homebuilding
rebounded in September from the slowest pace since May.  Companies like clothing retailer  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and supermarket
chain  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  have said they are limited in how much they
can raise prices to recoup raw-materials costs as weak job and
income gains squeeze consumers. With inflation less of a
concern, Fed policy makers would have the flexibility to take
additional steps should the world’s largest economy stumble.  “Inflation is around where the Fed would like it to be,”
said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF Global Inc. in  New
York . “On the growth side, the recovery has been disappointing,
and they’re worried it could falter.”  The Labor Department will issue the  consumer price index  at
8:30 a.m. today in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from
little changed to gains of 0.4 percent.  The so-called core index, which excludes volatile food and
fuel costs, increased 0.2 percent for a third consecutive month,
according to the survey median.  Also at 8:30 a.m., a Commerce Department report may show
housing starts climbed 3.3 percent to a 590,000 annual pace,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. Estimates ranged from
560,000 to 643,000.  Permits Forecast  Building permits, a sign of future construction, fell 2.4
percent last month from August, to a 610,000 pace, the data may
also show.  Most Fed officials at the Sept. 20-21 meeting anticipated
core and headline inflation was “likely to settle, over coming
quarters, at or below the levels they see as most consistent
with their dual mandate,” according to minutes released on Oct.
12.  “With stable inflation expectations, significant slack in
labor and product markets, slow wage growth, and little evidence
of pricing power among firms, inflation was likely to decline
moderately over time,” the minutes said. Participants also saw
“considerable uncertainty surrounding the outlook for a gradual
pickup in economic growth.”  Investor concern about a slowdown in economies from  Europe 
and  China  to the U.S. has damped energy prices. Crude oil for
November delivery closed yesterday at $88.36 a barrel at the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , down 22 percent from this year’s high
of $113.93 reached on April 29.  Cheaper Fuel  The cost of a gallon of regular gasoline at the pump
averaged $3.59 in September, down from $3.62 the prior month,
according to data from AAA, the nation’s largest auto group.
Fuel has fallen further since then, reaching $3.47 on Oct. 17.  The outlook on inflation is in sync with retailers’ moves.
A jump in cotton expenses hurt Gap’s Old Navy stores that sell
more clothing made of the material, yet it “chose not to raise
prices commensurate with cost given the impact of the tough
economy on our customers,” Chief Financial Officer Sabrina Simmons said on a conference call with analysts on Oct. 13.  Steven Burd, chairman and chief executive officer of
Safeway, said inflation was “predominantly in perishable
categories” and fuel, while there were “a couple of categories
that actually had deflation.” Shoppers at the Pleasanton,
California-based company remain “very conscious” of the price
tag, he said.  The CPI is the broadest of three price gauges from the
Labor Department because it includes goods and services. Almost
60 percent of the index covers prices consumers pay for services
ranging from medical visits to airline fares, movie tickets and
rents.  A report yesterday showed producer prices rose 0.8 percent
in September, while the import-price index, released last week,
climbed 0.3 percent. The pipeline pressures, reflecting a surge
in raw materials expenses earlier this year, may wane as slower
global growth subdues demand.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  