-- 
Countrywide Suit Belongs in N.Y. State Court, FHFA Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-10-19T16:33:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/countrywide-suit-belongs-in-n-y-state-court-fhfa-says.html
Countrywide Financial Corp.
defendants improperly moved a suit by the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  to federal court in Manhattan from state court in
an attempt to transfer it to a multidistrict litigation case in
California, the agency said today.  Countrywide was among 17 banks sued by the FHFA in
September. The FHFA alleges it lost “billions of dollars”
after Countrywide offered $26.6 billion worth of residential
mortgage backed securities to Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  from
2005 to 2008.  FHFA says Countrywide filed a removal notice to move the
case to federal court in Manhattan on Sept. 30. At least 11 of
16 other suits brought by the agency are currently before
federal judges in  New York . Countrywide also filed a notice on
Oct. 3 to transfer the case to the Central District of
 California , where a multidistrict litigation that relates to it
is pending.  “In their bid to achieve removal, the Countrywide
defendants stretch the doctrines upon which they rely beyond the
breaking point,” FHFA said in court papers filed today. “The
Countrywide defendants’ preferred forum is not the legal
forum,” FHFA said. “Plaintiff FHFA thus respectfully requests
that this action be remanded to New York state  Supreme Court .”  ‘Fundamentally Misrepresented’  In the complaint, the FHFA alleges Countrywide
“fundamentally misrepresented” the quality of securities
offered and asserts claims that include fraud, aiding and
abetting and negligent misrepresentation.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, which
acquired Countrywide in 2008, declined to comment on the U.S.
request.  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac have operated under U.S.
conservatorship since 2008, when they were seized amid subprime
mortgage losses that pushed them toward insolvency.  The case is FHFA v. Countrywide Financial Corp., 11cv6916,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  