-- 
Cuomo Picks Foye to Lead Port Authority When Ward Departs at End of Month

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-10-19T18:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/cuomo-picks-foye-to-lead-port-authority-when-ward-departs-at-end-of-month.html
Patrick Foye, New York’s deputy
secretary for economic development, has been selected by
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  to head the  Port Authority  of New York and
New Jersey, the transit agency that is also rebuilding the World
Trade Center.  Foye, 54, will replace  Executive Director   Christopher Ward ,
who will remain in his post until the end of the month and then
serve as an adviser through year-end, Cuomo said in an e-mailed
statement today. Foye’s nomination must be approved by the
authority’s board, the statement said.  Ward signaled his intention to resign late last month after
Cuomo showed he wasn’t interested in keeping him. He took
control of the Port Authority in May 2008 as an appointee of
Cuomo’s predecessor, Governor  David Paterson .  Under former Governor  Eliot Spitzer , Foye led the Empire
State Development Corp., which promotes business investment in
 New York , and was previously the deputy county executive for
economic development in Nassau County, according to his resume
on the Metropolitan Transit Authority’s  website . Foye currently
sits on the agency’s board.  As the executive director of the Port Authority, a bistate
agency created by Congress in 1921, Foye will oversee five
airports, the George Washington Bridge and three other spans,
the Lincoln and Holland tunnels, a trans-Hudson River commuter
rail line, a Midtown Manhattan bus station, five shipping
terminals and the 16-acre  World Trade Center  site under
development in  Lower Manhattan .  Not in Attendance  In May, the governor didn’t take part in a ceremony closing
a deal for Conde Nast Publications Inc. to rent space in 1 World
Trade Center, the 1,776-foot-high office building replacing the
fallen Twin Towers. Two days after the Conde Nast announcement,
the New York Post reported that Cuomo was “planning to boot”
Ward after the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks.  The governor of New York traditionally appoints the Port
Authority’s executive director, and the governor of  New Jersey 
appoints the authority’s chairman. The executive director
manages operations, and the chairman is responsible for
communicating to the director the policies set by the board of
commissioners, which the chairman oversees.  Foye also served as vice chairman of the Long Island Power
Authority from 1995 to 2006, according to a  press release  from
the law firm Rivkin Adler, where Foye went to work after leaving
the development corporation in 2008. He earned his law degree
from Fordham Law School.  The Port Authority, whose board raised bridge and tunnel
tolls by 56 percent over five years last month, has about $13.8
billion in outstanding bonds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In December, it approved a $7.2 billion budget with
no spending increases for the third consecutive year. The plan
included $3.9 billion in capital expenses and reduced the
workforce by 200 positions to 6,777, the lowest in 40 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  