-- 
Chile Bank Calls for Social Solutions That Preserve Economy

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-10-19T14:32:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/de-gregorio-urges-social-solutions-that-protect-chile-s-economy.html
Chile must find solutions to its
socio-political problems that preserve the country’s economic
health amid a deteriorating global climate, central bank
President Jose  De Gregorio  told a conference in Santiago today.  Speaking as thousands of students prepared to stage
demonstrations in the Chilean capital, De Gregorio said Chile
should be an example for other countries in resolving “urgent
and serious problems.”  “Clearly the climate of socio-political turbulence isn’t
the most suitable for facing further deterioration in the
world,” De Gregorio said, according to speech notes published
on the bank’s website. “That’s why the challenge, more than
ever, is building a solution to specific problems in an
effective way, but always preserving macroeconomic stability and
strengthening our capacity to grow.”  Chilean students plan to march in downtown Santiago today,
continuing their five-month push for cheaper and better
schooling, after the government invoked a security law to
increase punishments for acts of violence and vandalism, the
University of Chile student federation, known as Fech, said on
its  website .  ‘Almost Terrorist’  Protesters disrupted traffic throughout Santiago and burned
a city bus yesterday in an act that government spokesman Andres Chadwick called “almost terrorist” in an interview today with
Radio Agricultura.  “What we saw yesterday truly exceeded all limits,”
Chadwick said. “The government has been very clear: We will use
all legal tools at our disposal so people can live in peace.”  Student leaders condemn violence and are calling for a
peaceful march today, the Fech said on its website.  “Although some find it difficult to recognize because it
seems that today saying everything is bad gives popularity, our
country is exemplary,” De Gregorio said. “In the last decades,
all Chileans have benefited from progress never before seen in
our history and although there is much to do, we are an example
for many counties. In this climate we must also be examples in
resolving urgent and serious problems that should allow us to
keep building a more prosperous country for all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  