-- 
Turkish Troops Enter Iraq After PKK Strikes

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-10-20T14:38:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/deadliest-pkk-strikes-in-turkey-since-90s-risk-destabilization.html
Thousands of Turkish troops crossed
into  Iraq  to hunt fighters from the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or
PKK, which is staging its deadliest strikes since the 1990s.  Twenty-two battalions in five areas on both sides of the
border are engaged in the fight against the Kurdish group,
backed by aerial bombing and artillery attacks, the army said on
its website today. Turkey is in the first stages of the
operation and is seeking assistance from Iraq, in whose northern
mountains the PKK has its main base, Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told reporters in Ankara today.  The conflict, the latest in a region rocked by uprisings
all year, escalated after the PKK killed 30 Turkish soldiers in
a series of attacks in  Turkey ’s largely Kurdish southeast. They
coincided with the start of talks in the Ankara parliament over
a new constitution that may help address the grievances of
Turkey’s Kurds, about 20 percent of the population.  Turkey has quarreled with Iraq in the past about the PKK’s
presence there, and faces other disputes with neighbors.  Iran 
objects to Turkey’s stationing of radar as part of an
international missile shield. Turkey is increasingly vocal in
its opposition to the violent crackdown against protesters by
 Syria ’s President Bashar al-Assad.  ‘Greater Instability’  “We’re talking about the prospect of greater instability
in the  Middle East , this time because of the cross-border
implications of PKK actions,” said Bulent Aliriza, director of
the Turkey Project at the Center for Strategic & International
Studies in  Washington . “Turkey will be obliged to act in
northern Iraq, and all the while keeping an eye on Syria and
Iran, which both have interests in northern Iraq.”  PKK attacks have been rising since June, when Erdogan won a
third term with 50 percent of the vote. He said a new
constitution would be his top priority.  The 12-member commission charged with drafting a framework
for the new charter began talks yesterday. The four parties in
parliament, including the pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party,
or BDP, which has ties with the PKK, are equally represented on
the commission.  “There must be a strong suspicion that the PKK, or Kurdish
nationalist forces more generally, could be divided over the
wisdom of engaging in the consensus committee and the
constitutional process,” said Bill Park, a senior lecturer who
specializes in Turkish foreign and security policy at King’s
College in  London . The latest violence “looks like an attempt
to derail the talks, or to send a message to the Kurdish
negotiators that they should not too readily concede,” he said.  ‘No Turning Back’  Speaker of Parliament Cemil Cicek told the constitutional
consensus commission’s inaugural meeting yesterday that its
members must to work together “with great effort” to deliver a
new charter. “There’s no turning back from this path,
regardless of how difficult our work gets due to these
developments,” he said.  Turkey’s benchmark ISE-100 stock index extended losses
today after reports of the cross-border raid. It fell 3 percent
at 5:15 p.m. in Istanbul, adding to a 1.6 percent drop
yesterday. Yields on two-year  government bonds  rose 39 basis
points to 9.14 percent.  “From an investors’ point of view, it’s not a political-
risk event,” said  Wolfango Piccoli , a London-based analyst at
the Eurasia Group, which monitors political risk. He said the
PKK will be limited in its ability to strike due to worsening
weather conditions and logistical shortcomings and “will have
to wait until spring.”  NATO Defense System  Turkey is facing strained ties with neighbors as it battles
PKK violence that has claimed more than 190 lives this year and
more than 40,000 since the insurgency started in 1984.  Iran said Turkey’s decision to host early-warning radar
installations as part of a North Atlantic Treaty Organization
defense system creates tensions and will lead to complications.  Turkish leaders said they lost faith in Assad after the
Syrian president failed to follow a road map they drafted
jointly to expand freedoms and rights for Syrians. Turkish
Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  met this week with
representatives of the Syrian National Council, the opposition
group founded in Istanbul Oct. 2 that seeks international
recognition.  Turkey’s army and air force have been bombing PKK bases in
northern Iraq since August, according to the military, despite
repeated opposition to the move by its neighbor. “We stand
against the shelling and the direct interference,” said Labeed
Abbawi, Iraq’s deputy foreign minister.  Emergency Session  Nechirvan Barzani, deputy chairman of Iraqi Kurdistan
President Massoud Barzani’s party, said cooperation with Turkey
will expand in all areas and that the PKK attacks are harmful to
Kurds. “We vehemently condemn these actions” by the group, he
said today after meeting Davutoglu in Ankara.  Turkey’s parliament is holding a closed-door emergency
session in Ankara to discuss the PKK attacks. The opposition
 Republican People’s Party  and Nationalist Action Party accused
Erdogan’s government of failing to combat terrorism in
yesterday’s session.  The fighting between Turkey and the PKK comes after efforts
by Erdogan to increase rights for the nation’s Kurds. Political
tensions have escalated since the June 12 elections, when the
courts barred several pro-Kurdish lawmakers from entering
parliament. That culminated in a declaration of Kurdish autonomy
in Diyarbakir on July 14, which coincided with a PKK ambush in
which 13 soldiers died in the outskirts of the province.  The PKK killed 24 soldiers in a four-hour assault early
yesterday in eight locations in the Hakkari province, Erdogan
said. The previous day nine people, including five policemen,
died in a roadside bombing in Bitlis. One soldier was killed by
a mine explosion today.  U.S. Support  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Erdogan discussed steps
they can take together with Iraq to combat the PKK in a phone
conversation late yesterday, the Turkish prime minister said.  The U.S. “strongly condemns” yesterday’s attacks, Obama
said in an e-mailed statement. Erdogan had asked the Obama to
use unmanned U.S. Predator aircraft and share intelligence to
track the PKK during a Sept. 20 meeting in  New York . Obama
pledged to continue “strong cooperation with the Turkish
government as it works to defeat the terrorist threat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 