-- 
Deere Sees BRIC Demand Improving to Rival U.S. in Construction

-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 
2011-10-20T02:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/deere-sees-bric-demand-increasing-to-rival-u-s-in-construction.html
Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest
manufacturer of agricultural equipment, said demand for machines
used in construction will grow in Brazil, Russia, India and
China to collectively rival the U.S.  Deere, which is based in Moline,  Illinois , gets almost all
of its construction equipment revenue from the U.S., Aaron
Wetzel, the chief executive officer of John Deere Brasil, said
yesterday. Deere plans to increase sales in other countries and
said Oct. 3 it will build two construction equipment plants in
Brazil in a joint $180 million investment with Hitachi
Construction Machinery Co. Ltd.  “Just the sheer volume of the market opportunity outside”
the U.S. “is a significant opportunity for us,” Wetzel said in
an interview at Bloomberg News’s Sao Paulo bureau.  Brazil ’s economic growth and infrastructure projects under
way in advance of the country hosting the 2014 FIFA  World Cup 
and 2016 Olympics provide opportunities for Deere, Wetzel said.
Deere sees more room in Brazil than in more developed countries
such as the U.S. to improve crop yields and that presents
opportunities for the company’s farm-equipment business, he
said.  Deere’s construction and forestry unit accounted for 16
percent of its $8.37 billion sales in the third quarter. In
Brazil, Wetzel expects Deere to get a “meaningful” share of
local revenue from that segment, though he doesn’t see it
surpassing the farm equipment business.  Agriculture and turf was Deere’s largest business unit
overall in the last quarter with 77 percent of sales. Deere has
three factories in Brazil making tractors, harvesters and
planters, according to the company’s website.  Deere isn’t considering building more farm equipment plants
in Brazil, Wetzel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in  Sao Paulo  at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  