-- 
Deficit Drives Egypt Swaps Above Dubai as S&P Cuts: Arab Credit

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-10-19T13:23:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/deficit-drives-egypt-swaps-above-dubai-as-s-p-cuts-arab-credit.html
Egypt ’s inability to rein in
spending drove the risk of holding the nation’s bonds above
Dubai’s for the first time in a month and prompted  Standard &
Poor’s  to cut the rating on the most populous Arab country.  The cost of protecting Egyptian debt against default for
five years rose eight basis points to 448 yesterday as S&P
reduced the credit ranking by one level to BB- on the nation’s
growing budget deficit and sliding foreign reserves. The cost
dropped to 445 basis points today. Egyptian credit-default swaps
trade 16 basis points above those for unrated Dubai, the most
since August, according to data compiled by CMA.  Protests are reviving in Egypt and the economy is
deteriorating eight months after President  Hosni Mubarak  was
ousted sparking unrest across the region. Since military rulers
took over in February, violence has continued in the Arab
nation, which had a budget shortfall equal to 9.5 percent of
gross domestic product in the year to June. Yields on one-year
treasury bills surged to the highest level in almost three years
in September.  “The Arab Spring nations are having revolutions that are
good for promoting democracy but are bad for their ratings,”
 Win Thin , the global head of emerging-markets currency strategy
at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York, said by phone
yesterday. “There’s not a quick, easy fix. It’s a concern.”  Egypt’s revolution followed a similar revolt in  Tunisia  and
helped stoke popular uprisings in Bahrain, Yemen and  Syria . The
nation’s economy grew 1.8 percent in the fiscal year ended June
30, the weakest performance in at least a decade.  Yield Spread  Egypt’s benchmark stock index, the EGX 30, gained 1.2
percent today in Cairo, paring the decline for the year to 40
percent.  The country’s credit default-swaps have held above Dubai’s
since Oct. 14, and have jumped 203 basis points, or 2.03
percentage points, this year, compared with a 14 basis point-
advance in the emirate’s swaps, according to CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The last time the swaps traded
higher than Dubai’s for more than a day was in September.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Dubai received a $20 billion bailout in 2009 from its
central bank and neighboring  Abu Dhabi  as the government and its
state-owned companies ran up debt of at least $129 billion
developing the emirate’s property and tourism industries. The
sheikhdom had at least $113 billion of liabilities at the end of
2010, according to International Monetary Fund data.  Risk of Another Cut  Egypt’s economic growth shrank 4.2 percent in the first
quarter as revenue from industries including tourism plummeted.
The balance of payments in the fiscal year to June recorded a
$9.8 billion deficit, compared with a surplus of $3.4 billion
the previous year. The central bank’s foreign-currency reserves
have shrunk by a third in 2011 to $24 billion.  “The downgrade reflects our opinion that risks to
macroeconomic stability have risen during the transition period
for Egyptian political reform,”  Trevor Cullinan , a London-based
analyst at S&P, wrote in a report e-mailed yesterday. “A
further downgrade is possible if the political transition toward
a more pluralistic society does not proceed as smoothly.”  Pound Drops  The rating cut puts Egypt at the third-highest non-
investment grade level and equal to Lebanon, Vietnam and  El
Salvador  globally. New York-based S&P maintained a negative
outlook on the rating.  Egypt, which counts on foreign visitors for 16 percent of
its gross domestic product and 14 percent of jobs, lost 80
percent of revenue in the last holiday season, Tourism Minister
Mounir Fakhry Abdel Nour told Jordan’s Ad Dustour newspaper on
Oct. 1. The government expects tourism revenue to fall to $10
billion this year, from $12.5 billion in 2010.  The Egyptian pound’s decline to 5.9749 per dollar today
added to its 4 percent drop over the past 12 months, the biggest
decline among the 11 Middle East currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on the pound were at
6.68 per dollar, reflecting investors’ expectations that the
currency will weaken 11 percent versus the greenback in the next
year. NDFs are also an indicator of interest-rate differentials
and are used by companies to hedge against currency
fluctuations.  ‘Negative Implications’  The Egyptian government’s borrowing costs have risen to the
highest level in almost three years, with the yield on one-year
treasury bills soaring 344 basis points since the start of the
revolution to 13.882 percent on Sept. 27, the most since
November 2008. The yield was at 13.72 percent at an auction on
Oct. 13.  The yield on the country’s 5.75 percent 10-year dollar-
denominated bonds due in 2020 has climbed 49 basis points to
5.85 percent from its post-revolution low reached on Sept. 19,
prices compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The geopolitical risk has flagged itself with negative
implications to the economy,”  Michael Roche , an emerging-market
strategist at MF Global, said in a telephone interview from  New
York . “Egypt has underperformed its peer group if you look at
the deterioration of the economy in the past six months.”  The unrest escalated in central Cairo on Oct. 9, when a
night of clashes between Coptic Christian protesters and the
security forces left at least 25 people dead. The Arab Spring
has cost countries in the region more than $56 billion, with
Egypt, Libya, Syria and Tunisia hard hit, according to economic
consultants Geopolicity Inc.  Looming Elections  Several thousand Egyptians rallied in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square 
on Sept. 30 to demand that the nation’s military council
announce a schedule for handing power to civilians. The Arab
country is due to hold parliamentary elections in November, the
first after the popular revolt that ousted Mubarak.  Delays in Egypt’s transition to democracy are slowing its
economic recovery,  Fitch Ratings  said on Oct. 7, adding that the
company “had expected significant external support to have
begun flowing by now.” Fitch raised Egypt to BB, the second-
highest junk grade, on June 28.  Egypt’s political turmoil is occurring at a time when
concern over global growth and the worsening European sovereign
debt crisis wiped $10 trillion from global equity markets in the
third quarter. Average yields on emerging-market bonds have
jumped 66 basis points in 2011 to 7.16 percent, and hit the
highest level since May 2010 on Oct. 4, data compiled by
JPMorgan show.  “The rest of the world is slowing down, so this is not a
good time,” said  Brown Brothers ’ Thin. “To this point it
hasn’t moved to a democracy. There’s not great stability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  