-- 
Desdemona Gets Even in Morrison-Sellars Othello Remix: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-10-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/desdemona-gets-even-in-morrison-sellars-remix-of-othello-jorg-von-uthmann.html
A female Hamlet, a gay “Romeo and
Julius,” a white Othello surrounded by black schemers: We’ve
seen it all.  Now comes “Desdemona,” a new variation on Shakespeare’s
“Othello” concocted by Nobel-prize winning novelist Toni Morrison, Rokia Traore, a singer-songwriter from  Mali , and Peter Sellars, the director known for his eccentric flattop and
obsessive updating of the classics.  It’s an international coproduction that was launched in
Vienna, is now on view in Nanterre, a Paris suburb, and will
soon come to Berkeley and  New York . Next year, it will travel to
Berlin and  London .  Some have called “Desdemona” an oratorio. In fact, it’s a
two-hour monologue with musical interludes.  The play, Sellars said at a news conference in Vienna,
“takes Shakespeare into the 21st century,” which means it brings
him into line with the laws of political correctness. For this
to succeed, some facts had to be twisted.  Barbara, the maid who worked for Desdemona’s mother and is
fleetingly remembered for her sad “Willow Song,” has become a
major character and has been rechristened “Barbary,” which we
are led to believe makes her African.  Shakespeare’s Barbara was surely no more African than
Barbara Bush or  Barbra Streisand . She does share the origin of
her name (from “barbaros,” Greek for “foreign”) with the Barbary
Coast, the ancient name for what we call the Maghreb.  Yet the inhabitants of that region, the Berbers, aren’t
black either, as everybody knows who has seen  Zinedine Zidane ,
the French soccer star, in action.  Male Lust  The second assumption on which the play rests is no less
dubious.  Othello, we are told, didn’t believe Iago’s lies for a
second. He killed Desdemona out of male bloodlust and because he
had an affair with Emilia, Iago’s wife.  I would gladly go along with Morrison’s fantasies had she
created a new, compelling drama. That, unfortunately, is not the
case.  The moral of her story couldn’t be more simplistic.  “There will be a time when women prosper on their own
terms,” Desdemona rhapsodizes, and Sellars added in an
interview: “An interracial relationship no longer needs end in
strangulation.”  You don’t say.  The text matches the naivete of the message. It’s full of
platitudes and, at the same time, oddly stilted.  Lesson of Flesh  “Constraint was the theme of behavior,” Desdemona recalls
her strict upbringing, “duty was its plot.” To Othello, whom she
meets again in the realm of the dead, she says: “My appreciation
for those years is deep and in no way diminished by my
critique.”  At times, the text borders on kitsch: “Laughter is our
teacher,” says Othello, and Desdemona replies: “And our flesh is
its lesson.”  The very blonde Tina Benko, like everybody else barefoot
and clad in white, speaks both parts: Desdemona’s with a broad
Midwestern accent, Othello’s in a deeper, faintly exotic voice.
She also speaks the lines of Emilia -- here, for unknown
reasons, called Emelia.  It’s a tour de force.  Traore delivers Barbary’s songs in Bambara, her native
language, accompanied by three female vocalists and two men
plucking African string instruments. She has a lovely voice, and
you easily understand why her tunes, a sweet mix of African folk
songs and New Age music, are so popular.  Alas, neither of the two stars can save the production from
its numbing triviality.  Rating:*.  “Desdemona” is at the Theatre Nanterre-Amandiers through
Oct. 21. It will be at the  University of California  at Berkeley
from Oct. 26 to 29 and at  Lincoln Center ’s White Light Festival
in New York on Nov. 2 and 3.  Information:  http://www.nanterre-amandiers.com  or
+33-1-4614-7000;  http://www.calperfs.berkeley.edu ,
 http://www.whitelightfestival.org   (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 