-- 
Deutsche Bank Loses Bid to Revise $2.4 Billion Lehman Claims

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-10-19T17:59:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/deutsche-bank-asks-judge-to-reprice-2-4-billion-lehman-claim.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  lost a bid to
reclassify $2.4 billion in claims on Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. as a judge denied a request to force the defunct firm to
upgrade their value.  Deutsche Bank, which said about $100 million is at stake in
the classification, can revive the issue later, U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge James Peck said today in  Manhattan .  Germany ’s largest lender bought the claims from a Lehman
affiliate, Lehman Brothers Bankhaus AG, in July 2010. Consisting
of a $1.4 billion IOU from the Lehman parent and a $1 billion
IOU from Lehman’s commercial-paper unit, they were classified at
the time as general unsecured claims. Lehman ranked them in
August as affiliate claims, which were worth less, in the third
version of its $65 billion liquidation plan, Deutsche Bank said.  A sophisticated buyer, “Deutsche Bank took a business
risk” by buying the Bankhaus claims before Lehman settled on a
final plan, Lehman lawyer  Harvey Miller  said. The bank failed to
first consult Lehman about their possible value in a revised
plan, he said.  “My understanding is that Deutsche Bank bought the claims
under an acquisition agreement,” Peck told lawyers from the
Frankfurt-based bank. “You acquired affiliate claims and you
can’t improve your position simply because Deutsche Bank isn’t
an affiliate of Lehman.”  The bank is “still discussing internally” whether it
would continue to support Lehman’s plan if the claims aren’t
revised, Alan Kolod, a lawyer for Deutsche Bank, told Peck.  Lehman had a right to reclassify the claims under a deal
struck with bankrupt Bankhaus last year on settling intercompany
obligations, Miller said.  ‘Business Risk’  “Nothing limited Lehman’s ability to make different
classifications,” Miller said. “Nothing says Bankhaus will get
the highest recovery of all unsecured claims.”  A sophisticated buyer, “Deutsche Bank took a business
risk” by buying the Bankhaus claims before Lehman settled on a
final plan, Miller said. The bank failed to first consult Lehman
about their possible value in a revised plan, he said.  The German bank, which signed an agreement to back Lehman’s
$65 billion liquidation plan, had an “obligation” to continue
its support, Miller said.  Bank of America  Separately, Peck approved a settlement Lehman and Bank of
America Corp. reached last month that resolved a $500 million
lawsuit and reduced the bank’s derivatives claims against Lehman
by $4.5 billion. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank agreed
to support Lehman’s liquidation plan, return to Lehman $356
million in deposits taken in 2008 during the financial crisis,
and drop its appeal of Peck’s order that it pay $500 million,
plus interest.  Lehman, after three years in bankruptcy, is sorting out its
IOUs before a November deadline for votes on its plan. Creditors
holding more than $140 billion in claims support the latest
plan, up from $100 billion in July, Lehman said in September.
Among the backers are Deutsche Bank,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and Paulson & Co., Lehman has said.  Investment Firms  Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC and four other investment
firms had joined with Deutsche Bank in faulting Lehman for
mislabeling the Bankhaus claims. Lehman said they are “mere
participants” in Deutsche Bank’s ownership of the claims, and
have no “standing” to object.  Deutsche Bank suffered from “buyer’s remorse” and was
trying to “gain a higher recovery than proposed” in the latest
Chapter 11 plan, Lehman said in court filings.  Lehman has said it intends to confirm its plan by year-end
and start making payments to creditors in the first quarter. The
firm and affiliates held cash and investments of $25.5 billion
on Aug. 31, with $2.8 billion unavailable for use. Lehman has
spent more than $1.4 billion on bankruptcy managers and
advisers.  Chief Executive Officer  Bryan Marsal  aims to raise a total
of $65 billion from the firm’s assets, including the cash
already in hand, he has said. He has estimated final claims at
about $320 billion.  Lehman filed for bankruptcy in 2008 with assets of $639
billion. It failed because of too much debt, which it tried to
hide from investors, and risky investments, according to a
bankruptcy examiner.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  