-- 
Diageo Beat Estimates on Emerging Markets

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-10-19T11:20:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/diageo-beat-estimates-on-emerging-markets.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s largest
distiller, advanced to its highest price ever in London trading
after first-quarter revenue growth beat analyst estimates, led
by gains in  Latin America ,  Asia  and  Africa .  So-called organic sales rose 9 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30, the London-based company said today, exceeding
the 5.1 percent median estimate of 13 analysts. Diageo
maintained its forecast for improved first-half net sales
growth. The shares rose as much as 5.3 percent to 1,348 pence,
the highest price since 1988.  Sales in the quarter were “marginally ahead” of Diageo’s
expectations, benefiting from some unique factors, which aren’t
expected to reoccur, Chief Executive Officer Paul Walsh said in
the statement. The volume of drinks sold rose 5 percent.  “It’s an extremely impressive number even if you adjust
for some of the one-offs,” Melissa Earlam, an analyst at UBS AG
in  London , said today. “This really puts to bed some fears in
the market that they couldn’t deliver the 6 percent growth this
year,” she said, estimating that even excluding one-off factors
the company reported sales growth of 7 percent.  Diageo said in August it would target average organic sales
growth of 6 percent in the “medium term” as well as widening
its operating margin, a profitability measure, by 2 percentage
points in the next three years. That’s a faster rate of sales
growth than the company reported in its last fiscal year.  Emerging Markets  The maker of Johnnie Walker and Smirnoff vodka is among
consumer-goods companies facing slower sales growth in  Europe 
and the U.S. while reporting soaring demand in emerging markets.
Organic revenue rose 30 percent in Latin America and the
Caribbean, 14 percent in the Asia Pacific region and 9 percent
in Africa, Diageo said.  Organic sales increased 5 percent in  North America  and 6
percent in Europe during the quarter, the distiller said.
“Organic” sales exclude the effect of acquisitions, disposals
and currency fluctuations.  “Diageo benefited from impressive growth in its emerging
markets, while Europe and the U.S. beat expectations,”  Martin Deboo , an analyst at Investec in London, wrote in a note.  Diageo said today that foreign exchange movements may cut
operating profit by about 35 million pounds ($55.3 million) this
year, higher than the guidance given at its preliminary results.  The company is “alert to any impact which the fragile
global economy may have on trading patterns,” Walsh said.  Diageo shares traded 4 percent higher at 1,331.5 pence as
of 12:16 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  