-- 
Disney Doll Lovers Crash Store Website to Find Princess to Call Their Own

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-10-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/disney-doll-lovers-crash-store-website.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , owner of the ESPN
sports channel and the world’s largest theme-park operator,
apologized to customers after demand for limited editions of its
princess dolls crashed the Disney Store website.  More than 1,200 Facebook users posted comments when the
company acknowledged yesterday that the  site  was “extremely
busy” and that it “won’t allow such high volume to check out
simultaneously.”  The furor erupted when the Burbank, California-based
company put the last five models in its Disney Princess Designer
Doll Collection for sale on its website yesterday for $59.50
each. All of the dolls -- the characters Tiana, Jasmine,
Rapunzel, Sleeping Beauty and Pocahontas -- sold out the same
day, the company said.  “DUMB, DUMB, DUMB! I think Disney should go back to the
meeting room on this one,” Susan Herd Collier posted to
Disney’s Facebook page.  The company was contrite.  “We acknowledge that this has been a poor experience for
many of you, and we are truly sorry for those of you who were
unable to purchase,” Disney said yesterday in a statement on
the store’s Facebook page.  The Disney Princess Designer Doll collection made its debut
on Aug. 23, starting with the Cinderella model and a plan to
introduce one more character a week for a total of 10. Trouble
started when Snow White went on sale Sept. 19 and it sold out
the same day. The company said the doll was “oversold” and
blamed a “system malfunction” on its Disney Store blog.  Five More Dolls  “We want you to know that we read your comments on
Facebook, saw your Tweets, and our Cast Members have told us
what they heard from our Guests who visited our stores,” Jim
Fielding, president of Disney Stores Worldwide, said in a Sept.
23 post on the store blog.  Disney said then it would release the five remaining dolls
all on the same day, starting Oct. 17 in its stores and
yesterday from its website. Customers were allowed to order only
one of each character, and even with that limit, demand led to
the website crash.  Disney spokesman Gary Foster said the company would have no
comment beyond its online posts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  