-- 
DTZ Puts Itself Up for Sale After the Real-Estate Broker Attracts Suitors

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 
2011-10-19T16:04:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/dtz-gets-interest-from-potential-bidders-starts-sale-process.html
DTZ Holdings Plc (DTZ) , the unprofitable
U.K. real-estate broker controlled by a French family-owned
company, put itself up for sale after attracting potential
bidders.  DTZ “will implement a formal sale process of the company,
which it will conduct alongside consideration of the other
strategic options,” the London-based company said in a
statement today.  Saint George Participations SAS, which owns 54 percent of
DTZ and is backed by the property brokerage arm of Paris-based
BNP Paribas SA, said two days ago it won’t bid for the shares it
doesn’t own. DTZ is cutting staff costs and other expenses after
reporting losses for the past four years. It said on Oct. 17
that SGP and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc are providing a loan of
as much as 10 million pounds, replacing a mezzanine facility.  DTZ didn’t say which companies have expressed an interest
in making an offer. Oriel Securities Ltd. is advising DTZ and
potential purchasers should contact the firm “without delay,”
DTZ said.  Chief Executive Officer John Forrester ruled out a
 management buyout  in a telephone interview on Oct. 17. DTZ is
focusing on finding strategic options to ensure the long-term
growth of the business, addresses the company’s capital
structure and provide funds for future investment, he said.  DTZ fell 3.3 percent in  London , dropping the company’s
market value to about 59.5 million pounds ($94 million), their
lowest closing price since December 2008. DTZ’s shares have
dropped about 19 percent since SGP said it wouldn’t make a bid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 