-- 
Dubai Shares Rise Most in Two Weeks on Bets Decline Is Overdone

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-10-19T13:25:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/dubai-shares-rise-most-in-week-on-bets-drop-this-month-overdone.html
Dubai’s shares advanced the most in
almost two weeks on bets a drop this month prompted by worries
 Greece  may default is overdone and amid reports  France  and
 Germany  may have reached an accord on a Europe rescue fund.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer of the world’s tallest
tower, rose 0.8 percent after Arqaam Capital Ltd. started the
company with a “buy” recommendation. The stock has slumped 9.8
percent in October. Dubai Financial Market PJSC, the only Gulf
Arab stock market to sell stock to the public, gained the most
since August. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  added 0.4 percent, the most
since Oct. 6, to 1,363.35 at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. The
gauge has lost 4.8 percent this month.  “The market was very weak in previous sessions,
particularly for real-estate stocks, and today we are seeing a
technical rebound,” said Sebastien Henin, who helps oversee
$100 million at The National Investor in  Abu Dhabi . “Some of
these names have good fundamentals.”  The drop in Dubai’s benchmark this month left the 31
companies in Dubai’s benchmark gauge valued at an average 7.8
times estimated earnings, compared with 10.2 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 measure and 9.9 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index. U.S. stocks gained yesterday, with the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index advancing 2 percent, after data showed that
homebuilders were less pessimistic than forecast in October,
Bank of America Corp. posted a profit and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  forecast
sales that beat analyst estimates.  $2.8 Trillion  The U.K.-based  Guardian newspaper  reported that Germany and
France agreed to boost the region’s rescue fund, known as the
European Financial Stability Facility, to 2 trillion euros ($2.8
trillion) from 440 billion euros. France and Germany are still
working on how to increase the effective power of the rescue
fund, a person with direct knowledge of the talks told Bloomberg
News. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained as much as 1.1 percent.  Emaar increased the most since Oct. 6 to 2.48 dirhams.
Arqaam assigned the company a price estimate of 4 dirhams.
“Emaar Properties has been unduly penalized, due to skepticism
over the viability of international operations, and lingering
doubts over the ability of the business to scale up hotel and
retail recurring revenues to drive growth and cash flow
generation,” according to the Arqaam report dated yesterday.  Dubai Financial Market (DFM) , down 9 percent this month as
trading volumes declined, advanced 2.2 percent to 98.3 fils.
About 59 million shares traded today, compared with a 12-month
daily average of 109 million, according to data on Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  retreated 0.7
percent. Kuwait’s gauge declined 0.2 percent, Oman’s MSM 30
Index lost 0.1 percent and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  fell 0.3 percent.
Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  and Bahrain’s BB All Share Index
were little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  