-- 
The Hidden Utility of Ron Paul’s Balanced-Budget Plan: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-19T00:05:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/the-hidden-utility-of-ron-paul-s-blueprint-for-balancing-u-s-budget-view.html
American voters are adept at sending
mixed messages to elected officials. None are as confusing as
the signals from the heartland over how to fix the federal
budget.  When told that the U.S. deficit is now $1.3 trillion, the
majority of voters enthusiastically embrace the need to cut,
cut, cut. But they balk when asked to name specific programs to
downsize or lop off.  That’s why U.S. Representative  Ron Paul , the libertarian
seeking the Republican presidential nomination, performed a
valuable public service this week when he unveiled a budget plan
that shows exactly what balancing the $3.8 trillion budget
through spending cuts would look like.  Paul’s  blueprint , released Oct. 17, would balance the books
in three years. Admirably, he commits real numbers to paper. He
does it in just five pages. And he spares no one: the health-
care industry, defense contractors, oil-and-gas companies,
federal workers, homeowners, the poor, the middle class and the
rich.  In broad terms, Paul (whose chances of making it to the
White House are beyond remote) would force Americans to confront
their contradictions by slicing $1 trillion from the budget in
his first year in office. He would eliminate five Cabinet-level
agencies: Commerce, Education, Energy, Housing and  Urban
Development , and Interior. He would end the  Transportation
Security Administration . He would pare back most other programs
to 2006 spending levels, before the financial crisis and the
recession pushed up spending by the trillions.  Block Grants  The congressman wouldn’t stop there. Medicaid would become
a block grant to the states, as would food stamps, child
nutrition and other income-support programs. He would, of
course, zero-out foreign aid. At least he’s egalitarian about
it: If elected, Paul would pay himself a salary equivalent to
the median personal income of the American worker -- $39,336.  President Paul would also starve the revenue side of the
ledger. Corporations would see tax rates drop to 15 percent from
35 percent. He would extend all the Bush-era tax cuts, abolish
taxes on estates and investment income. He wouldn’t end Social
Security, but he would let young people opt out of the
retirement program. As for that $1 trillion sitting in the
overseas bank accounts of U.S. corporations, Paul would allow
the money to come home tax-free.  Cut the Bureaucracy  Such radical reductions in revenue would make it hard to
run the vast federal bureaucracy. True to his libertarian
principles, Paul takes care of that problem by trimming the
federal workforce by 10 percent -- and giving it far less to do.
He would, for example, seek to repeal both the Dodd-Frank
financial reform law and President Barack Obama’s Affordable
Care Act, along with eliminating many environmental and other
federal regulations.  What’s wrong with this? It doesn’t take much work to paint
a dystopian picture. Let’s begin with a simple example. Without
an Interior Department, there would be no agency to oversee
national parks, federal lands and offshore drilling. Land would
have to be auctioned off to the highest bidders, most likely
oil-and-gas, coal and timber companies. The states would inherit
Teddy Roosevelt’s national parks, but imagine how Yosemite would
fare if it suddenly became the ward of strapped  California .  Or let’s imagine another scene from Mr. Paul’s America.
Each state would have to become the regulator of its financial,
manufacturing and health-care industries. A patchwork of rules
would result. States might soon engage in a dangerous game of
regulatory competition: Some would ease rules to attract
businesses, forcing those seeking to protect the health and
pocketbooks of residents to lower their standards -- or lose
jobs. Illinois might choose, say, to let manufacturers dump
waste in the  Mississippi River . What recourse would downstream
Missouri, Tennessee or  Louisiana  have if their drinking water
became polluted?  Social Security  Or let’s simply consider what would happen if the under-30
crowd stopped contributing to Social Security: The pay-as-you-go
system would dry up, depriving today’s retirees of benefits.
About 25 million elderly households now depend entirely on
Social Security for income, leaving them unable to buy food or
pay heating bills.  Low-income families would be hit the hardest. By converting
Medicaid into a block grant, Paul would freeze what is now a
$285 billion program at $186 billion from 2013 to 2016. He would
do the same for  food stamps , now a $58 billion program; it would
be downsized to $30 billion four years in a row.  We should be grateful to Paul for painting a clear picture
of what so many Americans say they wish for. Our guess is that
those who look at this picture will conclude that there are
other, more sensible ways to restore fiscal order in the U.S.  Spend More  Why, for instance, is it necessary to balance the budget in
three years? Most economists say a sounder approach would
involve spending more -- yes, more -- for the next few years to
keep the fragile recovery on track, and focusing on budget cuts
in the medium term.  We’ve argued, for example, for a plan to reduce the deficit
by $4 trillion over 10 years, much like the one endorsed by the
Simpson-Bowles panel last year. Of the $4 trillion, at least $1
trillion should come from tax increases, including higher levies
on households making more than $250,000 and the elimination of
other Bush-era breaks. An additional $500 billion could be
squeezed out of Medicare by requiring, say, pharmaceutical
companies to provide rebates on purchases by the federal
program, similar to the discounts Medicaid now receives, and by
increasing co-payments, deductibles and other forms of cost-
sharing by the affluent.  Like the congressman, we’d cut corporate subsidies and farm
programs, and phase out deductions for mortgage interest and
corporate-sponsored health insurance. We would ask federal
workers to pay more toward their pensions.  There’s an egalitarian way for Americans to share in the
burden of achieving fiscal responsibility, but there’s no reason
for entire Cabinet departments, the social safety net and the
economy to be crushed in the process.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 