-- 
EBay Forecasts Miss Some Estimates as Marketing Costs Rise

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-10-20T00:11:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/ebay-s-forecasts-miss-some-estimates-as-marketing-costs-rise-shares-fall.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the largest online
marketplace, forecast fourth-quarter sales and profit that
missed some analysts’ estimates as the company’s efforts to woo
developers and strengthen payment services erode profitability.  Revenue will be $3.2 billion to $3.35 billion, EBay said
today in a statement. Excluding some costs, profit will be 55
cents to 58 cents a share. Analysts on average had projected
sales of $3.3 billion and profit of 58 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. EBay shares dropped 4.2 percent.  Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe is leading a
turnaround of the e-commerce company, whose stock had plummeted
83 percent in five years to a low of $10.27 in 2009. EBay is
spending to roll out new platforms and products and integrating
acquisitions made in the past year to increase the use of its
services across the Web, moves that may weigh on earnings in
coming quarters.  “Some of the acquisitions they made probably depressed
margins a bit,” said  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W.
Baird & Co. in San Francisco. “It’s a seasonally big holiday
period, and given the macro backdrop, investors may have been
expecting a little more upside in the quarter.”  EBay shares fell to $31.80 in extended trading after the
report. The stock declined 2 percent to $33.18 at the close in
 New York . Shares of the  San Jose , California-based company have
climbed 19 percent this year.  Third-Quarter Earnings  Third-quarter net income was $490.5 million, or 37 cents a
share, compared with $431.9 million, or 33 cents, a year
earlier. Sales climbed 32 percent to $2.97 billion, while
analysts predicted $2.91 billion. Before certain costs, profit
was 48 cents, matching the average estimate.  The company’s PayPal online-payment unit led growth in the
third quarter, with 103 million active registered accounts, a 14
percent increase from the previous year. PayPal revenue jumped
32 percent to $1.11 billion.  EBay’s operating margin, excluding some items, narrowed to
25.3 percent in the third quarter, compared with 28.7 percent in
the same period last year.  Sales and marketing expenses rose 29 percent to $623.3
million, EBay said. Spending on marketing new products may also
have weighed on the company’s forecast, an investment that
should pay off later, Sebastian said.  “We’re seeing the TV ads fairly widespread in front of the
holidays,” said Sebastian, who rates the stock “outperform.”
“They’re probably taking a cautious approach. I think EBay’s
progress continues. It’s not an overnight progression.”  ‘Solid’ Holiday Season  EBay’s marketing campaign that began in September, which
includes television advertisements, will last through the fourth
quarter, Chief Financial Officer Bob Swan said on a conference
call today. The company anticipates a “solid” holiday season,
Donahoe said.  “In the last 18 months, our user experience got to a place
where we’re proud of,” Donahoe said in an interview. “Our
investors have asked, ‘When are you going to start marketing?
You guys have improved this so much.’ The marketing campaign is
more focused on introducing people to today’s EBay than it is
about driving short-term revenue.”  Aiming to attract more retailers in a market dominated by
Seattle-based Amazon.com Inc., Donahoe unveiled EBay’s new
X.commerce system last week at the company’s Innovate developer
conference in  San Francisco .  The platform lets any developer create products and connect
with retailers, without requiring them to use EBay. It
incorporates technologies from the company’s purchases of
Magento, an e-commerce platform; Milo, which keeps track of
store inventory; and RedLaser, a company it bought in June 2010
that lets mobile users scan bar codes.  Mobile Payments  EBay also added to its stable of mobile-payment services
with the $240 million purchase of Zong Inc. in August, as it
seeks to help customers make purchases in stores over their
mobile phones. In addition, the company is building
relationships with big retailers through its June acquisition of
GSI Commerce Inc.  EBay expanded its relationship with social network Facebook
Inc. last week, saying developers for both the company’s GSI and
Magento platforms will work on creating social commerce
functions, such as clickable tabs for e-commerce that mirror
Facebook’s “like” button.  The online retailer will have to show that this suite of
new offerings and its acquisitions will work in harmony and
compete with Amazon before investors will trust it can move
beyond past mistakes, said Herman Leung, an analyst at
Susquehanna International Group in San Francisco.  “For me, it’s sort of a show-me story,” he said in an
interview. “These are all interesting concepts, but I would
like to see results before being committed. These are new areas,
offline payments -- there’s a lot of consumer education that’s
involved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  