-- 
Tekelec Surges After Preliminary Earnings Exceed Estimates

-- B y   X u   W a n g
-- 
2011-10-19T20:58:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/tekelec-surges-after-preliminary-earnings-exceed-estimates-2-.html
Tekelec surged the most since 2002
after the maker of telecommunications-signaling systems reported
preliminary third-quarter profit that was better than analysts
estimated and said it won a new $20 million contract.  The shares surged 23 percent to close at $9.21 in  New York ,
the biggest advance since August 2002. The stock has dropped 23
percent this year.  Profit excluding certain costs was 16 cents to 20 cents a
share in the third quarter, the Morrisville, North Carolina-
based company said in a statement. Analysts had projected 6
cents on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company said it will report final third-quarter results on Nov.
9 before U.S. markets open.  “The stronger result is a big surprise,” said Greg Mesniaeff, an analyst at Kaufman Bros. LP, in an interview. He
rates Tekelec “hold” with a target price of $9. “As the
telecom equipment sector has been sluggish, the expectations for
most companies are not to deliver solid results for the second
half,” he said.  The company also said its diameter signaling router, which
controls the flow of traffic for so-called voice over Internet
protocol, or phone calls transmitted over the Internet, won a
$20 million contract in early October, making  Tekelec (TKLC)  optimistic
about the product’s prospects for future sales.  “Next year, there is going to be a big upgrade to 4G and
LTE,” Mesniaeff said, referring to new wireless technologies
being rolled out by carriers. “As that happens there will be
big demand for DSR.”  Revenue was $103 million to $106 million in the third
quarter, the company said. The average estimate of analysts was
for sales of $93.3 million. Tekelec projected orders of $66
million to $68 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xu Wang in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  