-- 
Emanuel Ends Cheap Water Era’s Drain on Chicago’s Finances as Pipes Burst

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   J a m e s   L a w s o n
-- 
2011-10-19T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/emanuel-ends-cheap-water-era-s-drain-on-chicago-finances-as-pipes-burst.html
Kenneth Coleman lives 2 1/2 blocks
from  Lake Michigan , one of the world’s largest, and struggles to
understand why his water bill would more than double in the next
four years.  Chicago’s proposed rate increase, the centerpiece of Mayor
 Rahm Emanuel ’s push to create jobs while fixing a century-old
utility, would end the long tradition of cheap water in the
third-largest U.S. city. And it would force Coleman to pay up.  “I don’t like it, but there’s nothing I can do about it,”
said Coleman, 49, a radiation therapist. “I see it irritating
residents of Chicago, me included.”  Emanuel is pitching the increase as an economic stimulus
bill whose cost would be shared by suburban water users. If
approved by the City Council, the program would add 18,000 jobs
over 10 years to both the municipal payroll and private companies
hired to do the work, said Bill McCaffrey, an Emanuel spokesman.
It’s a  Chicago  version of President Barack Obama’s plan to boost
some taxes to pay for recession-proofing jobs.  Coleman joins a line of complainers stretching from coast
to coast as  utility companies , towns and cities propose or enact
steep water-bill increases as pipes and sewer systems crumble.
The rate boosts acknowledge concerns that have been ignored for
years, partly because they are underground, water experts say.  “Cities, especially east of the  Mississippi , where the
infrastructure is older, are having their comeuppance now,”
said Peter Annin, author of “The Great Lakes Water Wars.”  ‘Super-Tight Revenue Times’  “Their water systems are more than a century old and people
have put off the upgrading, and now they are breaking,” Annin
said. “Mayors and city councilors in older urban areas are in a
real spot because here we are in super-tight revenue times, and
there is no more basic infrastructure need than the water
system.”  Disintegrating sewer lines are at the core of Jefferson
County,  Alabama ’s struggle to avert a record municipal
bankruptcy. Under a proposed agreement with creditors, a sewer
customer with a $600 annual bill would see it rise to almost
$800 after the deal’s first three years.  Rates in  Cleveland  will soar 82 percent over four years for
residents and 50 percent for suburban customers.  Portland ,
 Oregon ’s combined average monthly sewer and water bill has
jumped 83 percent in the past decade, and is projected to rise
another 49 percent in the next five years. Residents in  West
Lafayette ,  Indiana , are protesting a proposed 60 percent boost
in their bills.  Chicago residents pay the second-lowest average monthly
charge for water and sewer service of any of the nation’s 50-
largest cities, according to a 2010 survey by Black & Veatch, a
Kansas City-based consulting firm.  Memphis Bargain  Memphis pays the lowest monthly charge, $10.14, followed by
Chicago, at $12.17, based on 3,750 gallons of usage, the survey
said. Seattle residents had the highest bills, $72.93.  Water rates nationwide rose twice as fast as inflation from
2001 to 2009, according to the Black & Veatch study, and a
driving force behind the pressure was aging infrastructure.  The 51-year-old Emanuel, Obama’s chief of staff before
quitting to run for mayor, has marked his first five months in
office with the discipline and message control of a presidential
campaign.  Yet even he couldn’t have planned this: A day after he held
a news conference to promote his plan, a 91-year-old main burst
on the city’s South Side, closing streets and alleys and
flooding basements.  Century Old  “About a thousand miles of water line is a hundred years
or older,” Emanuel said during the Oct. 14 event at a
construction site where crews were installing about 1,600 feet
of sewer main to replace pipes dating to 1886. “The work here,
in my view, is essential for Chicago’s economic future.”  It’s also a way of generating more revenue without raising
property and sales taxes -- the most visible and painful of
increases -- for a city looking for ways to close a $635.7
million deficit.  This week all three bond-rating companies gave Chicago
positive assessments.  Fitch Ratings ,  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s affirmed its general-obligation debt and sales-tax bond
ratings, giving its credit a stable outlook.  Emanuel’s proposed 2012 budget, a $3.09 billion spending
plan, includes 517 dismissals and the elimination of 2,000
vacant positions. A Democrat who took office May 16, he pledged
not to raise property taxes, the city’s biggest income source.  Spoiled Residents  The water-rate increase amounts to an average of $120 per
year, Emanuel said. Experts believe many residents have been
spoiled.  “Chicago people are not paying for water,” said Robert Glennon, a professor at the University of  Arizona  law school and
author of “Unquenchable: America’s Water Crisis and What to do
About It.”  “We have to look at the component of the water bill,” he
said. “There is no commodity charge for water; the water is
free. People really are paying for the system and all of the
infrastructure concerns.”  Some Chicago residents, like Jolly Campbell, 62, a
registered nurse, said she can handle the increase. “He’s doing
what he needs to do,” Campbell said of Emanuel.  Glennon said outrage over more expensive water is
understandable because many Americans “think of it as air.
However, air is inexhaustible, water is not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Lawson in Chicago at 
 JLConcept@aol.com ;
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  