-- 
Emerging Stocks Rebound From Biggest Loss in Two Weeks on Europe

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-10-19T22:13:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/emerging-stocks-rebound-from-biggest-loss-in-two-weeks-on-european-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks rebounded
from the biggest loss in two weeks amid speculation European
leaders are moving closer to forming a plan to resolve the
region’s debt crisis, and after U.S. housing starts data
exceeded estimates.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.8 percent to 932.95
at the close of trading.  India ’s Sensex Index jumped 2 percent
while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese shares
traded in  Hong Kong  gained 1.2 percent as  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd. led lenders higher. The BUX Index
rose 0.4 percent in Budapest and South Africa’s benchmark gained
0.5 percent. Benchmark gauges in Poland, Chile and  Argentina 
advanced while those in  Brazil  and Mexico dropped.  Euro-area leaders assembled in  Frankfurt  seeking to narrow
divisions to solve the sovereign debt crisis. While German
Chancellor Angela Merkel this week sought to lower expectations
that the crisis-fighting effort would climax at the Oct. 23
summit in Brussels, Group of 20 finance chiefs last week set the
meeting as a deadline for action. U.S. Commerce Department data
showed housing starts jumped 15 percent.  “Some optimism is building up that  Europe ’s leaders will
arrive at an agreement and resolve the crisis and that we will
see some surprises in third-quarter earnings,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at Manila-based Banco de Oro
Unibank Inc. “Still, it’s not the time to buy across the board
since the risks remain unresolved.”  U.S. Housing  The MSCI emerging-market index sank 1.7 percent yesterday,
snapping a nine-day rally after  China ’s economy grew at the
slowest pace in two years and Steffen Seibert, spokesman for
German  Chancellor Merkel , said European leaders won’t provide a
quick end to the debt crisis. Germany and France agreed to boost
the region’s rescue fund to 2 trillion euros ($2.75 trillion),
the Guardian reported yesterday.  The 658,000 housing starts for September in the U.S. was
more than a 590,000 median estimate by economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Intel Corp., the world’s largest chipmaker, forecast
fourth-quarter sales that topped some analyst predictions.
Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s largest brokerage, said
third-quarter net income was $2.2 billion, compared with $131
million a year earlier. Yahoo! Inc. gained 3 percent as demand
for advertising helped third-quarter profit top analysts’
forecasts, while Apple Inc.’s earnings missed estimates for the
first time in at least six years.  Argentina,  Chile   Argentina’s Merval Index rose for the sixth day in seven.
Chile’s Ipsa index has gained for three days in a row to a one-
month high.  Gafisa SA, Brazil’s third-biggest homebuilder by revenue,
soared 4.2 percent after it said third-quarter contracted sales
increased 2.6 percent from a year earlier.  The BUX index gained 0.4 percent in Hungary while Poland’s
WIG20 measure added 0.3 percent in its second day of increases.  The won strengthened 1.2 percent versus the dollar, the
most among 25 emerging currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after
South Korea agreed to increase a currency-swap accord with  Japan 
to $70 billion. The ruble rose 0.7 percent while the Indian
rupee gained 0.3 percent. The real weakened 1.1 percent and the
rand fell 0.9 percent against the dollar.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  fell 1.6 percent in  Turkey , as
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the country’s biggest bank by market
value, slid 2.6 percent. Anadolu Efes Biracilik & Malt Sanayii
AS surged 6.8 percent in Istanbul after an announcement that
 SABMiller Plc (SAB)  will get a 24 percent stake in the Middle East’s
biggest brewer, in return for its Russian and Ukrainian
businesses.  ICBC  ICBC, as the world’s biggest lender by market value is
known, rallied 2 percent in Hong Kong as a drop in money-market
rates signaled China’s central bank will inject more funds into
the financial system. The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of
funding availability in the financial system, fell 16 basis
points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 3.32 percent in  Shanghai ,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.3 percent. The
Ministry of Commerce said today foreign investments gained 7.9
percent in September to $9 billion. That compares with an
expansion of 11.1 percent in August and 19.8 percent in July.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  retreated five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 408, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps declined three basis
points to 301, according to data provider CMA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  