-- 
Mercedes Cancels U.S. Dealer Meeting in Setback for Carmaker

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-10-19T15:46:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/mercedes-cancels-u-s-dealer-meeting-in-setback-for-carmaker.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-
largest maker of luxury cars, canceled a gathering of Mercedes-
Benz dealers in  Chicago  this week after firing its U.S. chief.  Daimler yesterday dismissed Ernst Lieb as head of Mercedes’
U.S. operations, assigning a temporary replacement to oversee
its second-largest market. Lieb, 56, a 36-year Daimler veteran,
took charge of Mercedes sales and marketing in the U.S. in
September 2006 and would have run the dealers’ event.  U.S. sales partners for the luxury-car brand were notified
Oct. 14 that the meeting planned for yesterday and today would
be postponed indefinitely, Donna Boland, a Mercedes-Benz
spokeswoman in Montvale,  New Jersey , said today by e-mail. The
meeting, due to be attended by 93 percent of the brand’s 355
U.S. dealers, was called off because Lieb wasn’t going to be
able to attend, she said.  Mercedes is on track this year to overtake  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus  in the country for the first time in more than
decade. Lieb’s departure was unrelated to operational issues, a
person familiar with the situation said.  “We usually have one or two such meetings a year to update
dealers on the business of the company,” Boland said. “This
one is in the process of being rescheduled.”  Daimler dismissed Lieb because he repeatedly charged the
company for private expenses, breaching internal rules,
 Handelsblatt  reported, without saying where it obtained the
information.  Lieb billed the company for expenses such as house
remodeling and golf club fees even though he had been previously
warned against the practice, the German newspaper said.  Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler declined to comment on the
grounds for Lieb’s departure and wouldn’t provide a contact for
the executive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  