-- 
Merkel Risks Own Downfall as Odyssey to Save Greece Nears Climax

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 
2011-10-19T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/merkel-risks-own-downfall-as-german-odyssey-to-rescue-europe-nears-climax.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  may
be risking her 2013 bid for a third term with a bet on expanding
the effort to save the euro.  Merkel may endorse policies unpopular with her Christian
Democratic voters at an Oct. 23 European summit, bowing to world
leaders including President  Barack Obama  to do more to stem the
debt crisis that began in Greece and is now rattling core
economies such as Italy and  France .  “Merkel’s next step is to convince voters,”  Giles
Merritt , head of the  Friends of Europe  research group in
Brussels, said in a telephone interview. “The German media have
been hammering away in a tabloid manner on the idle Greeks and
this has gone deep into the German psyche.”  Failure to make her case to the electorate means Merkel may
face the political hara-kiri of her predecessor,  Gerhard Schroeder . The Social Democrat alienated core supporters with
his “Agenda 2010” package of tax and benefits cuts that
subsequently fueled the German economy and still led to his
downfall. Germany’s next election will probably be held in
September 2013.  “This is very much an Agenda 2010 moment for Merkel, but
it’s much bigger than what Schroeder faced,”  Jan Techau ,
director of the Brussels-based European center of the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, said in an interview.  Techau said that while the sluggish economy Schroeder
confronted was easier to explain to voters, “it’s far harder
for Merkel” to demystify the Greek and European banking crises.  “Merkel’s the target of public anger about  Greece  and the
bailouts even though all other major German parties, including
the opposition, back her on this,” Techau said.  German ‘Nein’  A total of 80 percent of Germans oppose making a personal
financial contribution to help Greece, according to a Sept. 21
Forsa poll for Stern magazine. An Allensbach survey for the
Frankfurter Allgemeine newspaper on Oct. 19 showed only 17
percent of Germans saying they trust the euro with 75 percent
saying they don’t trust it.  The popularity of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union bloc
is suffering with the Allensbach poll putting it at 31 percent,
almost neck-and-neck with the opposition Social Democrats at
30.5 percent. Merkel’s party won almost 34 percent in the  2009
election , compared with 23 percent for the defeated SPD. The
poll, which didn’t give a margin of error, surveyed 1,869 people
Oct. 4-16.  “The crisis in the euro zone is increasingly determining
the fate” of Merkel’s government, said Renate Koecher, head of
the  Allensbach  polling company.  “The CDU stands for European integration in the eyes of
citizens,” Koecher wrote in the Frankfurter Allgemeine. “This
makes European developments into a question of fate for the
CDU/CSU more so than for any other party.” The CSU is the CDU’s
Bavarian sister party.  East German Bailout  Germans have been bailing out failed states for two
decades. The so-called Solidarity Surcharge, imposed in 1991 as
a temporary tax to cover costs of rebuilding the failed East
German communist economy after reunification, is still being
collected. Last year it brought in  11.7 billion euros  ($16
billion) and there are no plans to abolish it.  Germany ’s share of European bailouts so far totals 211
billion euros in guarantees.  That may help explain Merkel’s go-slow approach to
bailouts, says Carl Graf von Hohenthal, a management adviser at
the Brunswick Group in Berlin.  State Election Defeat  Last year, she held out for weeks before bending to fellow
European leaders to back the first Europe-led Greek aid package.
She blamed her party’s May 2010 defeat in North Rhine-
Westphalia, the country’s most populous state, on voter anger
over the first Greek bailout.  Merkel, 57, dragged her feet again this year in the runup
to a second Greek aid package, saying on May 10 that “first we
need to hear what the status is; only then can I decide what, if
anything, needs to be done.”  Her message has only changed in recent months after Italy
and  Spain , the third- and fourth-biggest euro economies,
succumbed to the turmoil and required European Central Bank
support through bond purchases.  “Schroeder lost his own parliamentary faction but Merkel
has so far managed to keep hers,” Hohenthal said in an
interview. “Merkel’s trying to buy time,” he said, adding that
if her base abandons her, “a Merkel defeat in 2013 could
happen.”  In 2003, Schroeder lowered taxes, reduced  unemployment
benefits  and cut health-care services after two years of
stagnation. German growth, however, remained sluggish at 0.7
percent in 2004 and 0.9 percent in 2005. It sped up to 3.6
percent in 2006, the year after his defeat.  Revolt Against Schroeder  Schroeder’s policies enraged some members of his own Social
Democrats and led to a parliamentary revolt, Schroeder, 67,
wrote in his memoirs. A wave of SPD members quit the party,
including 80,000 who left in 2003 and 2004 before Schroeder’s
defeat by Merkel in September 2005, according to Handelsblatt
newspaper. The SPD had 498,616 members at the end of April, the
most recent date for which party figures are available.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc and Free Democratic
coalition partner in parliament passed her bill on Sept. 29
expanding the euro-area rescue fund’s firepower. Her party
enforcers are brutal with those who deviate. Chancellery chief
of staff Ronald Pofalla was quoted by Der Spiegel magazine on
Oct. 10 as publicly telling a CDU bailout opponent, Wolfgang Bosbach, “Every night I see your mug on television. I’m fed up
with your mug. You’re making everybody crazy.”  Angry Voters  Yet Merkel’s ultimate problem may not be in parliament;
it’s with voters who have punished her CDU and the FDP over
their handling of the debt crisis.  Merkel’s party was either defeated or saw its share of the
vote decline in elections held in seven of Germany’s 16 states
this year. Voters ejected the FDP from five state parliaments.
The SPD, the opposition in Berlin, is now in government in each
of the seven states it contested. Merkel’s FDP ally is  polling 
as low as 3 percent nationally, down from the 14.6 percent it
won in the 2009 federal elections when it played a crucial role
in her victory.  Merkel’s bloc has seen its share of the vote erode in
German elections over the past three decades. CDU Chancellor
Helmut Kohl won his first election in 1983 with almost 49
percent and three subsequent elections with as much as 44
percent before he was defeated in 1998 by Schroeder after
getting 35 percent. Merkel won 33.8 percent in 2009.  CDU Membership Falls  The number of members in her CDU fell to 495,192 in
September, down from almost 617,000 in 2000, party spokesman
Jochen Blind said in an interview.  National polls  over the past year have shown Merkel’s
coalition would fail to win a majority and is trailing the SPD
and Greens, which governed Germany under Schroeder from 1998 to
2005.  Techau said that Merkel is desperate to avoid “Schroeder’s
all-or-nothing bid with his reforms” and that her “cautious,
step-by-step approach and declarations that the euro sovereign
debt crisis won’t be solved with a big bang” are aimed at being
an “anti-Schroeder” to ensure survival.  Gary Smith, director of the  American Academy in Berlin , a
trans-Atlantic research institute, said that Merkel’s cautious
approach to dealing with the crisis is “because she saw what
happened to Schroeder.”  Merkel is holding back and “building majorities for things
she knows are inevitable and unpopular, namely that Germany will
have to pay more and give more sovereignty to Brussels,” Smith
said in an interview.  To be sure, Smith said that while Merkel supporters may be
“furious” at some of her policy moves, they will still vote
for her “because they don’t want anyone else in power.”  “Merkel is the whipping boy now, but she also understands
brinkmanship,” Smith said. “Things that were unthinkable a
year ago are now being demanded, and Merkel understands that
when she finally makes the right decision people will say that
she was right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  