-- 
Espirito Santo Shareholders Willing to Support Bank, CEO Says

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-10-19T12:20:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/espirito-santo-shareholders-willing-to-support-bank-ceo-says.html
Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) ’s
shareholders are willing to keep their stakes in the Portuguese
bank as it seeks to raise capital, Chief Executive Officer
Ricardo Salgado said.  “Our shareholders are here to stay and are willing to keep
their stakes” in the lender, Salgado told reporters today in
Lisbon.  Espirito Santo,  Portugal ’s biggest publicly traded bank,
yesterday said it plans to raise as much as 790.7 million euros
($1.1 billion) by exchanging certain securities that will boost
its core tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength,
by 147 basis points. It had a ratio of 8.2 percent in June.  Portuguese banks are required to reach a core Tier 1
capital ratio of 9 percent this year and 10 percent in 2012 as
part of the country’s bailout package with the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund . As part of the plan, 12
billion euros is earmarked for the recapitalization of lenders
should it be necessary.  “It’s more interesting for banks to extend their
shareholder base, by converting bonds into shares, than having
the state as a shareholder,” Salgado said. “The evidence we
have of state management of banks is a disaster.”  Lisbon-based Espirito Santo has put up for sale its
international loans to companies and projects to reduce its
loans-to-deposit ratio to 120 percent by 2014. Salgado said
today the bank would come “close” this year to its annual
target of selling 2.5 billion euros in loans.  The lender doesn’t have any holdings of sovereign debt
other than Portuguese short-term borrowings, Chief Financial
Officer Amilcar Morais Pires said. The company has a 100
million-euro potential loss on its holding in Treasury bills, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  