-- 
EU Rescue Fund Insurance Plan May Not Translate Into Debt Crisis ‘Bazooka’

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-10-19T13:14:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/eu-rescue-fund-insurance-plan-may-not-be-debt-crisis-bazooka-.html
The bond-insurance program European
Union leaders are considering to boost their bailout fund’s
firepower may not prove convincing to investors as a solution to
the sovereign debt crisis, analysts and economists said.  Even if euro-area leaders agree to leverage the temporary
440 billion-euro ($609 billion) European Financial Stability
Facility by using it to insure a portion of national bond sales,
it may not have enough capacity to provide loans to countries
and support banks.  Turning the fund into a “bond insurer is not enough unless
it’s well capitalized in advance, so markets understand that EU
governments are ready and willing to take losses and make good
on obligations of either  Greece  or of the banks that will be
impaired when Greece et al default,”  Phillip Swagel , assistant
U.S. Treasury secretary for economic policy in the George W. Bush administration, said by e-mail late yesterday.  As EU leaders prepare for an Oct. 23 summit, momentum has
gathered around a proposal for the EFSF to guarantee a portion
of new borrowing by countries under pressure and for bondholders
to take bigger losses on Greece. European Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said yesterday that Greek
bondholders need to play a bigger role. German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble , who has consistently opposed expanding the
fund’s resources, has told lawmakers that its leverage should be
increased, according to Financial Times Deutschland.  ‘Insufficient Firepower’  Both ideas represent deviations from plans set at a July 21
summit, when EU leaders agreed to give the rescue fund more
flexibility and to work with banks and other investors on a
Greek debt swap. Group of 20 finance ministers and central
bankers last week set this weekend’s summit as a deadline for
the EU to come up with an expanded crisis-fighting strategy.  “It seems clear that, even with leverage, there is
insufficient firepower to meet all the potential liquidity
needs,” David Mackie, chief European economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  The EFSF might be allowed to insure 20 percent to 30
percent of new bonds sold by distressed euro-area governments, a
person familiar with the deliberations said.  The upgraded facility may still prove too small to deter
investors from targeting the bigger economies, according to
Mackie, who calculates that given its existing commitments, the
fund has about 270 billion euros left. His figures suggest that
with  Italy ,  Spain  and Belgium facing funding needs of more than
1 trillion euros over the next three years, guaranteeing the
first 20 percent of losses would leave less than 100 billion
euros for other fire-fighting tasks.  New Issuance  “This might be sufficient, but it is not exactly a
bazooka,” Mackie said, referring to former U.S. Treasury
Secretary Henry Paulson’s 2008 request for “bazooka”-like
powers to take over  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the two
government-backed companies that dominate the U.S. mortgage
market.  As a bond insurer, the EFSF would focus on new issuance
rather than taking advantage of its new powers to buy debt on
the secondary market, said  Marc Chandler , chief currency
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman in  New York . This means it
won’t be able to relieve the burden on the  European Central
Bank , which had hoped to pass on some of its crisis-fighting
duties and return to its focus on monetary policy.  “The insurance model likely means that it will not be able
to buy sovereign bonds in the secondary market as some have
proposed,” Chandler said. “While some at the ECB may not be
pleased, its continued involvement is an important element of
support the financial system.”  Capital Shortfall  The EFSF might not have the resources to help recapitalize
 Europe ’s banks, another issue that European leaders have pledged
to address. And it would face highly concentrated and correlated
risks by insuring the debt of multiple European countries with
high debt levels like Italy, Spain and Belgium, said  Jacques Cailloux , the chief European economist at  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  in  London , in a research note.  Some requirements under consideration would lead to a 220
billion-euro capital shortfall at 66 of the participating banks,
with the biggest gaps at Edinburgh-based RBS, Deutsche Bank and
Paris-based BNP Paribas SA, according to a note published by
Credit Suisse Group AG analysts on Oct. 13.  “We believe it is very risky for euro-area policy makers
to rush out some quick deal on leverage or insurance schemes
given the risks associated with such mechanisms and the limited
actual firepower of the EFSF,” Cailloux said. “There are more
downsides than upsides” and “ultimately a fuller involvement
of the ECB will be needed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  