-- 
EU Seeks Curbs on High-Frequency Trading

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-10-19T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/eu-seeks-curbs-on-commodity-derivatives-high-frequency-trading.html
The European Union will seek to
limit trading in commodities derivatives and curb high-frequency
trading as part of proposals to overhaul the region’s financial-
market rules.  Today’s plans, which also include a crack down on trading
through so-called dark pools, are aimed at reducing market
volatility, increasing regulatory oversight and promoting
competition. Specific measures include requiring national
regulators to either cap the number of commodity derivative
contracts that traders can enter into, or make “alternative
arrangements” with the same effect.  “The crisis serves as a grim reminder of how complex and
opaque some financial activities and products have become,”
 Michel Barnier , the European commissioner responsible for the
proposals, said in an e-mailed statement today. The plans “will
help lead to better, safer and more open financial markets.”  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has demanded steps to curb
commodity derivatives speculation, which he blames for driving
up world food prices. He has made the issue a priority of
 France ’s presidency this year of the Group of 20 nations. The
 Institute of International Finance , an association representing
global lenders, said last month that there was “little
convincing evidence linking financial investment with trends in
commodity prices and volatility.”  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
said it is scheduled to formally approve the measures at 10 a.m.
in Brussels without further debate. Governments and lawmakers at
the European Parliament must then agree on the final version of
the proposals before they can take effect.  Position Limits  Under the plans, the EU would have the power to set
position limits for commodity derivatives across the entire
region if it decided that curbs put in place by national
regulators weren’t working. National supervisors would also be
empowered to impose similar restrictions on other kinds of
derivatives.  High-frequency traders came under increased regulatory
scrutiny following the so-called flash crash in May of last
year, during which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost
almost 1,000 points.  The EU measures include requiring firms that offer high
frequency or algorithmic trading services to prove that they
have sufficient risk controls in place and to ensure that
clients with direct access to the markets are properly
qualified.  The safeguards include requiring trading venues to have
“robust controls against problems such as disorderly trading,
erratic price movements, and capacity overload,” the commission
said. “Limits will be placed on how many orders per transaction
participants can place as well as on how far venues may compete
in attracting order flow.”  Dark Pools  The EU is seeking to push some dark-pool trading through a
new form of regulated platform known as an “organized trading
facility.” Dark pools, or private venues that don’t display
prices in advance, have been probed by regulators in both the EU
and U.S. because of concerns that their lack of transparency
increases price volatility.  The “seeming eradication” of dark pools is one reason why
investment banks are “one of the clear losers” from the
proposals, Harry Eddis, counsel at law firm Linklaters LLP, said
in an e-mail. The EU’s plans will also increase such banks’
costs, he said.  To promote competition, the proposals would require
exchanges to provide rival clearinghouses with the data they
need to process trades. They would also mandate non-
discriminatory access for clearers and trading venues to indices
and other benchmarks used to determine the value of financial
instruments.  The proposals will be adopted in tandem with others to
toughen sanctions against market abuse. Firms that take part in
practices such as insider dealing would face maximum penalties
of at least ten percent of annual sales, with individuals
risking top fines of at least 5 million euros ($6.9 million).
Criminal sanctions may also be used against traders, the
commission said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  