-- 
Banks Raided in EU Antitrust Probe Over Euribor Derivatives

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-10-19T14:37:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/eu-says-companies-raided-in-investigation-on-euribor-derivatives.html
European Union regulators raided
banks that offer financial derivatives linked to the Euro
Interbank Offered Rate, saying they were investigating possible
collusion.  The European Commission said it had “concerns that the
companies concerned may have violated EU antitrust rules that
prohibit cartels and restrictive business practices.” It didn’t
name the businesses involved.  The EU probe adds to earlier inquiries by the commission,
U.K. and U.S. financial regulators into the possible breach of
rules governing the Libor benchmark borrowing rate.  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  have
said they were quizzed by the EU earlier this year.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition commissioner, has
made financial markets one of his  priorities  and said last month
that they  required  “really close scrutiny.” In April, he
started a separate probe into  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and 14 other investment banks over agreements in the
market for credit-default swaps that may harm competition.  “All the products we are talking about belong to the
category of interest rate derivatives in euros,” said Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the commission.  ‘A Few’ Raided  Banks including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and RBS were visited by EU
officials yesterday, according to two people familiar with the
probe. Deutsche Bank, RBS,  UBS AG (UBSN) , Barclays, HSBC,  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
SA declined to comment today.  Cedric Quemener, the manager at Euribor-EBF responsible for
setting the euro interbank lending rate, said only “a few” of
the 44 banks involved in Euribor were visited by EU officials
yesterday. He said it would be “almost impossible” to
manipulate the rate.  “You would need to have an agreement between so many
different banks from so many different countries that there’s no
way someone could do that,” Quemener said in a telephone
interview from Brussels. “We have high monitoring and very
clear transparency in the way we are defining Euribor.”  Libor and Euribor rates are used as benchmarks for
trillions of dollars worth of financial products ranging from
mortgages to  student loans .  The EU probe may include how derivatives contracts between
banks could give them an incentive to manage the Euribor rate.  “Keeping funding costs down by some untoward activity, you
are able to fund derivatives activity more cheaply and so boost
margins,” said  Richard Reid , director of research for the
International Centre for Financial Regulation, who isn’t
involved in the investigation.  Special Agreements  There are “a lot of special agreements between financial
institutions to share information, also for commercial use to
increase revenues,” said Diego Valiante, a research fellow at
the European Capital Markets Institute in Brussels.  Antitrust regulators are “trying to understand if these
special agreements are forbidding new players to enter the
market,” Valiante said.  Several of the banks involved in Libor, including Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, Nordea Bank AB and Natixis SA,
said they weren’t involved in the latest probe.  “We have nothing to hide,” Guido Ravoet, chief executive
officer the European Banking Federation and member of the
steering committee of Euribor-EBF said in an e-mailed statement.
“We feel there is perhaps not enough understanding of the
elaboration of the benchmarks themselves in the European
Commission.”  The Wall Street Journal reported the EU raids yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 