-- 
European Stocks Gain on Rescue-Fund Reports; Commerzbank Climbs

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-10-19T15:53:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/european-stock-futures-rise-on-rescue-reports-asian-shares-gain.html
European stocks advanced for the
first time in three days amid conflicting reports that France
and  Germany  have reached a deal on expanding the euro area’s
rescue fund.  Natixis and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  jumped more than 2.5 percent as
a gauge of banks rebounded from four days of declines.  Software
AG (SOW) ,  Tele2 AB (TEL2B)  and  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  rallied
after reporting results.  Hochtief AG (HOT)  gained 3.7 percent as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. upgraded the construction company.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.6 percent to
236.71 at the close in  London  after falling 1.3 percent in the
previous two days. The measure has rallied 10 percent from this
year’s low on Sept. 22 amid speculation policy makers will find
a solution to Europe’s debt crisis.  “The market seems to be in a positive frame of mind,”
said  Andrea Williams , who helps manage $990 million as head of
European equities at Royal London Asset Management. “We are
just waiting for the weekend for an announcement from European
leaders. Sentiment is fairly fragile until we know exactly what
the announcement will be and how they plan to execute it.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday that the
euro-area summit on Oct. 23 will mark an “important step,”
though not the final one, in solving the debt crisis. The
comments marked the second time in two days that she sought to
lower expectations.  Guardian Report  The Guardian newspaper reported that Germany and  France 
have agreed to boost the region’s rescue fund, known as the
European Financial Stability Facility, to 2 trillion euros ($2.8
trillion) from 440 billion euros. In contrast, the Financial
Times Deutschland said German Finance Minister  Wolfgang
Schaeuble  told lawmakers in Berlin that the EFSF’s firepower may
be increased to a maximum of 1 trillion euros.  A person with direct knowledge of the talks told Bloomberg
News that France and Germany are still working on how to
increase the effective power of the fund. Such a measure needs
to be part of a comprehensive agreement to help banks and
Greece, the person said who declined to be named.  “Rumors of a European bailout deal have sparked a global
surge in risk-on bets,” Jonathan Sudaria, a trader at London
Capital Group, wrote in e-mailed comments. “With markets
jumping from headline to headline, traders are finding it
increasingly difficult to stay with positions, reducing their
investment horizon to the next major rumor.”  BOE Asset Purchases  Bank of England officials voted unanimously to expand the
size of their asset-purchase program on Oct. 6 as strains
related to  Europe ’s debt situation created a “compelling” case
to add stimulus, according to the minutes of the decision
published today.  Governor  Mervyn King  said a second round of stimulus is
needed to prevent growth from stalling, as he called on other
nations to play their part in stabilizing the world economy.
King’s comments were in prepared remarks for a speech today in
Liverpool, England.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 11 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index gained 0.7 percent,
France’s CAC 40 Index increased 0.5 percent and Germany’s DAX
Index advanced 0.6 percent.  A gauge of bank shares rebounded from a four-day decline as
the cost of insuring against default on European corporate debt
retreated. France’s  Natixis (KN)  rallied 2.8 percent to 2.25 euros,
while Commerzbank, Germany’s second-largest lender, rose 4.7
percent to 1.63 euros.  Software AG Surges  Software AG surged 12 percent to 30.45 euros, its biggest
gain since 2009. Germany’s second-largest maker of business
software confirmed its full-year sales target after third-
quarter operating profit rose to 71 million euros.  Tele2 added 2.2 percent to 133.70 kronor. Sweden’s second-
biggest phone company reported quarterly profit of 1.26 billion
kronor ($191 million), in line with estimates, as it expanded in
Russia.  BSkyB gained 5.1 percent to 710 pence after the U.K.’s
biggest pay-TV broadcaster reported a 16 percent increase in
first-quarter operating profit to 295 million pounds ($466
million) as the company sold more products to its existing
subscribers. That beat the average analyst estimate of 286.5
million pounds.  Diageo Plc (DGE)  jumped 4 percent to 1,331 pence after the
world’s largest distiller reported first-quarter sales that
topped analyst forecasts, boosted by growth in  Latin America ,
Asia and Africa.  Accor, Hochtief  Accor SA (AC)  advanced 2.5 percent to 22.62 euros after Europe’s
largest hotel company reported a 2.7 percent gain in third-
quarter sales to 1.62 billion euros, matching estimates, as more
guests stayed at its economy hotels.  Hochtief rallied 3.7 percent to 52.98 euros after Goldman
Sachs raised its recommendation for the company to “conviction
buy” from “neutral.”  Alcatel-Lucent SA sank 7.7 percent to 1.96 euros as Oddo
Securities and Jefferies Group Inc. lowered their
recommendations for the French phone-equipment maker to
“neutral” and “underperform,” respectively.  The shares earlier briefly erased losses after Alcatel said
it received a $1.5 billion offer from Permira Advisers LLP for
its Genesys business.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  sank 17 percent to 99.5 pence after
the owner of U.K. Homebase outlets said first-half profit fell
70 percent as Britons spent less at its Argos catalog unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  