-- 
Eurotunnel Third-Quarter Sales Rise 9.2% on Vehicle Increases

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 
2011-10-19T08:05:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/eurotunnel-third-quarter-sales-rise-9-2-on-vehicle-increases.html
Groupe Eurotunnel SA (GET) , the operator
of the undersea rail tunnel linking Britain and  France , said
sales rose 9.2 percent in the third quarter as its train
shuttles carried more cars and trucks.  Sales increased to 231.7 million euros ($320 million) from
212.1 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
in a statement.  Eurotunnel is “conscious of the signs of economic slowdown
and will continue to optimize the flexibility of its services,”
Chief Executive Officer Jacques Gounon said in the statement.  The company raised its full-year earnings forecast July 22
after recoveries in passenger and freight traffic helped it
record a first-half profit of 2 million euros, compared with a
loss a year earlier. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization will increase for 2011 after
jumping 37 percent in the first half, it said at the time.  Third-quarter revenue at Eurotunnel’s shuttle service,
which carries vehicles under the Channel, rose 6.9 percent to
116.5 million euros, the company said today. Sales from other
train operators’ use of Eurotunnel’s network gained 6 percent,
while its Europorte freight unit posted a 28 percent increase.  The number of passengers on Eurostar Group Ltd. trains
traveling through the tunnel declined 2 percent in the quarter,
Eurostar said. There was a “slight drop” in the figure at the
end of the period, it said.  Eurostar is currently the only outside operator of
passenger trains using the Channel Tunnel. Deutsche Bahn AG,
 Germany ’s state-owned railway, is planning services through the
tunnel in 2013. The European Union is investigating whether
France and the U.K. have properly implemented measures to open
the market for rail services through the tunnel, and the two
countries have until November to respond.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  