-- 
Ex-KLA-Tencor, Juniper Executive Settles With SEC Over Option Backdating

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-10-19T18:20:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/ex-kla-tencor-juniper-executive-to-pay-sec-settlement-fine-1-.html
The former general counsel of KLA-
Tencor Corp. and  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  agreed to pay $350,000 to
settle allegations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission related to backdating of  stock options .  Lisa Berry, the former executive, also agreed give up
$77,120 that the SEC said she made as a result of the
backdating, according to an agency statement. Berry didn’t admit
or deny backdating option grants at the two companies from 1997
to 2003.  “Berry caused KLA-Tencor and Juniper to report false
financial information to the investing public through her
preparation of corporate records that concealed that employee
stock option grants were priced with the benefit of hindsight,”
the SEC said.  She was the first person accused of backdating options at
more than one company. She left KLA and joined Juniper in 1999,
just before it became a public company, according to the SEC’s
complaint filed in 2007.  Her attorney, James Kramer of Orrick, Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP, said in an e-mailed statement that Berry “is
pleased to have reached a resolution in the case.”  “While the agreement with the SEC prevents her from
discussing the case, it makes clear that Ms. Berry does not
admit to any of the SEC’s assertions, and she looks forward to
continuing her career as a practicing lawyer,” Kramer said.  Claims Against Companies  The commission previously settled claims against the
companies and KLA-Tencor’s former chief executive officer,
Kenneth Schroeder, according to the SEC’s statement.  Berry also agreed to be suspended from appearing as an
attorney before the SEC, the commission said. She may apply for
reinstatement in five years.  Juniper, based in Sunnyvale,  California , makes equipment
for directing Internet communications. KLA-Tencor, based in
Milpitas, California, makes monitoring systems for the
semiconductor industry.  The case is SEC v. Berry, 07-cv-4431, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California ( San Jose ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  
at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  