-- 
Texas Water Authority Votes to Settle $1.2 Billion Lawsuit by San Antonio

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-19T17:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/texas-water-authority-votes-to-settle-1-2-billion-lawsuit-by-san-antonio.html
Texas’s Lower Colorado River
Authority, which supplies water to 1.1 million residents, agreed
to settle a $1.2 billion lawsuit brought against it by the  San
Antonio  Water System, serving the nation’s seventh-largest city.  The authority’s directors voted today to pay $30 million to
the San Antonio system, which provides for 1.3 million people.
Meeting in Austin, the board  agreed  to end the suit by paying
$18.8 million and then $1.4 million annually for eight years.  The San Antonio system sued the authority in April 2009
after its board voted to halt a $2 billion program to expand
supplies in the region, including new reservoirs. The directors
had concluded the plan wasn’t feasible. The state has weathered
the driest 12 months on record, a drought forecast to continue.  San Antonio paid the authority more than $40 million during
seven years of development, according to a statement issued
today. Managers of the system will recommend the settlement to
its board at a Nov. 1 meeting, according to the statement.  “Through this settlement, San Antonians will recover a
significant portion of their investment in the LCRA water-supply
project, and avoid ongoing legal fees,” Robert R. Puente, the
system’s president and chief executive officer, said in the
statement. Both agencies will still examine ways to develop
additional resources for the San Antonio system, the Lower
Colorado Authority said.  “It’s never a good thing for two big public entities to be
in litigation,” said Tim Timmerman, the authority’s chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 