-- 
Mexico Stocks: Cemex Gains; Grupo Mexico, Minera Frisco Fall

-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 
2011-10-19T22:08:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/mexico-stocks-cemex-gains-grupo-mexico-minera-frisco-fall.html
The following companies had unusual
price changes in  Mexico  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the close of trading.  The IPC index fell 1.4 percent to 34,523.27.  Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO MM), the largest cement maker in the
Americas, rose 0.2 percent to 4.82 pesos after gaining as much
as 6.4 percent earlier today. The company has paid off more than
half of a $15 billion  bank loan , allowing it to avoid an
increase in interest rates that was set to take effect at
yearend. Cemex made a payment of $131 million today, bringing
the total amount paid back to $7.66 billion, said  Jorge Perez , a
spokesman for the Monterrey, Mexico-based company. Cemex
restructured the bank debt in 2009 to avoid defaulting amid the
global financial crisis.  Mexican industrial materials companies fell as a split
emerged between France and Germany on ways to boost the European
bailout fund, and the  Federal Reserve  said companies grew more
pessimistic about the economy. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index
of 24 raw materials fell 1.7 percent, its biggest drop this
month.  Grupo Mexico  SAB (GMEXICOB MM), the country’s largest
mining company, fell 2 percent to 34.85 pesos.  Industrias Penoles SAB (PE&OLES* MM), Mexico’s largest
silver producer, fell 2.6 percent, the most this month, to
560.34 pesos.  Minera Frisco SAB (MFRISCOA MM), the mining company
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , fell 3.1 percent to 54.19
pesos. The company named Alejandro Aboumrad Gonzalez to the post
of chief executive officer yesterday, after Justo Wong Salinas
left the company for “personal reasons”. Aboumrad will
continue as CEO of Impulsora del Desarrollo y el Empleo en
America Latina SAB, an official who can’t be named under company
policy said today in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  