-- 
FBI Definition of Rape Needs Broadening, Panel Says

-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 
2011-10-20T04:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/fbi-s-rape-definition-for-crime-statistics-should-be-broader-advisers-say.html
The definition of rape in U.S. crime
statistics compiled by the FBI should be broadened, a panel of
outside advisers recommended.  Rape data also should include anal and oral sex regardless
of the gender of the victim or suspect, the advisers concluded
at a closed-door meeting on Oct. 18 in Baltimore, the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  said yesterday on its website. The
current definition includes only vaginal intercourse.  If adopted, the new definition would more closely align the
FBI’s statistics with states’ definitions of rape, said Carol
Tracy, executive director of the Philadelphia-based Women’s Law
Project, who had requested the revision.  “It means the public will have more accurate data about
the existence of serious sex crimes in our communities,” Tracy
said in a telephone interview. “Because data drives resources,
we believe more resources will be brought to bear to
investigating rape cases and apprehending rapists.”  The recommendation was made by a subcommittee of an FBI
advisory panel. The full board is scheduled to take up the
proposal at a December meeting and forward its recommendation to
FBI Director Robert Mueller, according to the agency.  The FBI now asks  law enforcement  agencies to report only
“forcible rape,” defined as “carnal knowledge of a female
forcibly and against her will.”  Rapes Decreased  There were an estimated 4,767 forcible rapes reported to
law enforcement in 2010, down 5 percent from the year before,
according to the FBI.  Eighty percent of law enforcement leaders surveyed in
August by the Police Executive Research Forum, a membership
group, said the current definition is inadequate.  “It gives a very skewed picture of sexual assault in this
country and, as a result, the public may not recognize the true
incidence of sexual assault,” said Jennifer Gentile Long,
director of AEquitas, a Washington-based non-profit organization
that provides prosecutors with training on cases involving
violence against women.  If adopted, the new definition is likely to result in a
bump in the violent crime rate reported by the FBI, said  Scott
Burns , executive director of the National District Attorneys
Association in Alexandria, Virginia.  “There will be a one-time change, a new baseline,” said
James Reams, the county attorney for Rockingham County,  New
Hampshire .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  