-- 
Lockhart Says Economic Data Have ‘Turned,’ Inflation to Fall

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-10-19T22:18:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/fed-s-lockhart-says-u-s-economy-may-be-accelerating-to-modest-growth-pace.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said recent economic reports suggest
the  U.S. economy  may be accelerating to a modest pace of growth
and inflation may fall.  “Things kind of turned in the latter part of the summer,”
Lockhart said in Atlanta. “Since October, we have seen for the
most part economic indicators that have exceeded expectations.
Now we appear to be on a growth path” of about 2 percent to 2.5
percent growth.  “I do not expect a double dip recession,” he said, adding
that “modest growth” will probably continue into 2012.  Lockhart has supported the Federal Open Market Committee’s
use of unconventional policy instruments at their last two
meetings to revive a recovery that has left the  unemployment
rate  stuck near 9 percent or higher for 30 consecutive months.
In August the central bank pledged to hold  interest rates  near
zero until mid-2013 and in September the Fed announced it would
swap $400 billion of short-term debt for longer-term debt in a
bid to reduce borrowing costs.  The economy has “been weaker than we originally thought”
through August, he said. “We were seeing disappointments
relative to expectations.” Given recent data, however, “some
of the pessimism may be overdone,” and there is less likelihood
of a recession.  His forecast means “no recession but at that growth track
unemployment will come down very slowly,” Lockhart said at
Georgia Tech’s College of Management in Atlanta. “Inflation has
begun to subside” and will return to “a healthy level of
inflation,” around 2 percent.  Southeast Lagging  Lockhart also said the economy in the Southeast, including
Atlanta, was lagging the national economic outlook partly
because the region depends more on housing and construction.  Nationwide, economic growth picked up in the past quarter
to 2 percent, according to the median of 78 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News from Oct. 5 to Oct. 11. Employment increased
by 103,000 last month, and the jobless rate held at 9.1 percent,
Labor Department figures showed Oct. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  