-- 
Fed’s Rosengren Says ‘Vulnerabilities’ of Global Banks Should Be Resolved

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-10-19T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/fed-s-rosengren-says-global-bank-vulnerabilities-must-be-fixed.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of  Boston 
President  Eric Rosengren  said the European debt crisis
underscores that regulators must address the “significant
challenges” that remain in the global banking system to end
the need for public rescues of financial firms.  “Once again, governments have started to intervene to
mitigate global banking problems, which in turn may stress the
debt burden of those governments, and could ultimately undermine
the credit ratings of some countries,” Rosengren said in the
text of remarks in Boston today. “It is apparent that the
financial intermediaries encompass some vulnerabilities for the
world financial system and the global economy.”  Spanish, Italian and Greek bonds fell yesterday on concern
that the euro region is struggling to contain a crisis that
threatens to trigger another global slump, as banks faced with
rising defaults lack the capital to absorb a shock in sovereign
debt. Moody’s Investors Service yesterday cut  Spain ’s credit
rating for the third time since June 2010 as European Union
leaders worked on plans to quell the crisis.  “Three years after the failure of Lehman Brothers, there
remain significant impediments to avoiding the need for
government intervention to protect large financial
intermediaries,” Rosengren said. “So it is critical that we
focus on strengthening the financial architecture, so that the
struggles of one institution or a group of them no longer poses
risks to the broader global economy.”  ‘Too Big to Save’  When banks become too big relative to the economies of
their home countries, they “could essentially be ‘too big to
save’” because of the amount of capital required to rescue
them, Rosengren said. For example, Ireland has gone from being a
nation with a low proportion of debt relative to its gross
domestic product, to having a high ratio because of the
emergency funds it provided to its banks, he said.  The reliance of some large financial institutions on so-
called wholesale funding, such as commercial paper, can also
lead to a “fairly sudden liquidity crisis,” Rosengren said.
“This situation is quite prevalent among many large European
banks.”  U.S. prime money-market funds cut their exposure to euro-
zone bank deposits and commercial paper, or short-term IOUs, to
$214 billion in August from $391 billion at the end of last
year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  Wholesale Funding  “If we are to avoid future crises and the need for
extraordinary government intervention in crises, then the issue
of over-reliance on wholesale funding will need to be
addressed,” Rosengren said.  Countries that are only willing to provide support to the
domestic operations of their banks can also cause other nations
to be “adversely affected,” Rosengren said. “It is exactly
these concerns that have caused some countries to require that
all branches of foreign banks operating within their borders be
supported by capital.” That would likely lead to a more stable
funding base, including a reliance on deposits and longer-term
borrowing, yet would also come “at a cost” to the parent of
the subsidiary, he said.  In addition, regulators need to address “the challenge of
resolving a failing international institution,” as illustrated
by the litigation over  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.’s
bankruptcy three years after its collapse, Rosengren said.  Taxpayer Funds  Regulators also need a more “proactive approach to
retaining capital” within banks as the use of taxpayer funds to
support the financial system “should not manifest itself in
paying scarce funds to equity holders,” Rosengren said.  “Using easily observable financial triggers, such as very
substantial declines in a firm’s stock price, to pause share
repurchases and dividends would provide no additional
information about the institution’s financial strength -- but
would allow it to build up capital during times of stress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  