-- 
Fed Districts Report ‘Modest’ Growth as Companies Voice Doubts on Recovery

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-10-19T18:37:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/fed-says-u-s-economy-maintained-growth-last-month-amid-doubt-on-outlook.html
The  Federal Reserve  said consumer
spending rose slightly last month and the economy maintained its
expansion, even as companies reported more doubt about the
strength of the recovery.  “Overall economic activity continued to expand in
September, although many districts described the pace of growth
as ‘modest’ or ‘slight,’” the Fed said in its Beige Book survey
released today in Washington. “Contacts generally noted weaker
or less certain outlooks for business conditions.”  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke early this month told a
congressional committee that the two-year-old recovery is
“close to faltering,” while repeating his forecast for a
pickup in growth. Last month, the Fed announced a plan to spur
the economy with lower borrowing costs by replacing $400 billion
of short-term  Treasury securities  in its portfolio with longer-
term bonds.  The Fed’s anecdotal summary of economic performance said
the recovery was fueled by consumer spending that was “up
slightly,” business spending that “increased somewhat” and
manufacturing that rose as many districts reported a boost to
automobile production.  The Fed’s regional banks in Atlanta, New York,  Minneapolis 
and  Dallas  said growth in their regions was modest, while
 Chicago  said the economy had “picked up some” and Philadelphia
described conditions as “mixed, with more positive sectors than
negative ones compared with the previous” report. The Richmond
Fed said conditions were “weak or weakening in most sectors.”  Precedes FOMC Meeting  The Beige Book survey, released two weeks before each
policy meeting, is based on information gathered by officials at
the Fed’s 12 regional banks. Today’s report covers information
collected on or before Oct. 7 and was compiled by staff at the
Chicago Fed.  “We probably avoided this recession scare that we’ve been
having since August,”  St. Louis  Fed President  James Bullard 
said today in a radio interview in St. Louis on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. Recent economic
reports have “surprised on the upside” and support the Fed’s
view, expressed in its September statement, that there will be
“some pickup in the pace of recovery over coming quarters,” he
said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.1 percent to
1,211.43 as of 2:34 p.m. in  New York , while the yield on the 10-
year Treasury note declined three basis points to 2.15 percent.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Retail Sales Rose  Employers added 103,000 jobs in September, up from a gain
of 57,000 the month before. Retail sales last month rose by the
most in seven months, and factory production climbed.  The Fed said conditions in the labor market were “little
changed, on balance, in September” and that several districts
saw “only limited and selective demand for new hires.”  Fed banks in Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago and
Kansas City all noted that industries such as manufacturing,
transportation and energy were “experiencing difficulties in
finding appropriately skilled or qualified labor.”  The economy probably expanded at a 2 percent annual pace in
the third quarter, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists taken from Oct. 5 to Oct.
11. That compares with growth of 1.3 percent in the second
quarter and 0.4 percent in the first three months of the year.  Housing starts climbed 15 percent to a 658,000 annual rate,
the most since April 2010, Commerce Department figures showed
today in Washington. Construction of new multifamily dwellings
surged to the highest since October 2008.  ‘Slight Improvements’  A few districts reported “slight improvements in
construction and real estate activity; nonetheless, overall
conditions for both residential and commercial real estate
remained weak,” the Fed said. Manufacturing and transportation
“increased on balance” while  consumer spending  rose
“slightly,” boosted by auto sales and tourism.  “The U.S. has a long-term issue with unemployment that for
the average consumer is going to remain challenging,” Blake Jorgensen, chief financial officer for Levi Strauss & Co., said
in a telephone interview last week from  San Francisco , where the
closely held company is based.  The Boston, Richmond, Atlanta, and Chicago Fed districts
said that further hiring was “being restrained by elevated
uncertainty or lower expectations for their future growth.”  President Barack Obama is working to pass some components
of a $447 billion package intended to create jobs and lower an
unemployment that has been stuck near 9 percent since April
2009.  Demanding a Vote  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid is demanding a vote on
the first piece of the broken-up jobs package, providing $35
billion in aid to cash-strapped state governments. The Nevada
Democrat said it would help save the jobs of teachers,
firefighters and other public-sector workers. Reid would pay for
it with a half-percent surtax on individuals with annual income
of $1 million or more.  Republicans, who have a majority in the House and enough
votes in the Senate to block legislation, have rejected raising
taxes to pay for the plan. They also object to additional
spending when the nation’s budget deficit was $1.3 trillion in
the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, the third consecutive year
that the shortfall has exceeded $1 trillion.  Financial activity weakened in the money centers of
Chicago, which reported tighter financial conditions, and New
York, which said securities industry activity was “noticeably
weaker.”  In agricultural areas, crop conditions at harvest were
“less favorable than a year ago.”  Economy Grew  The previous  Beige Book , released Sept. 7, said that the
economy grew at a slower pace in some regions of the country as
shoppers limited their spending and factories curbed production.
The report said that activity expanded “at a modest pace,
though some districts noted mixed or weakening activity.”  The  U.S. economy  has been roiled this year by international
shocks, including the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  that
disrupted global supply chains, a surge in  oil prices 
exacerbated by political upheaval in the  Middle East , and the
sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe .  “As this year has unfolded and the effects of these
temporary factors have ebbed, it has become apparent that there
are more persistent factors impeding growth in this recovery,”
Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said in an Oct. 17 speech
in Salisbury,  Maryland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  