-- 
Fink Says BlackRock Clients ‘Confused’ as Governments Fiddle

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-10-19T20:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/fink-says-blackrock-clients-confused-as-governments-fiddle-1-.html
Laurence D. Fink, chief executive
officer of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , said clients are “confused” and
fleeing risky assets because of government policies that fail to
address long-term problems.  “Worldwide, clients are de-risking,” Fink, 58, said today
on a conference call with analysts and investors. “Our clients
are confused.”  BlackRock’s shares fell 4.7 percent to $148.92 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  after saying clients removed $10.2 billion from the
firm’s funds and market declines erased an additional $303.9
billion in the quarter ended Sept. 30. Withdrawals and market
declines reduced assets managed by New York-based BlackRock by
8.6 percent in the quarter to $3.35 trillion.  Fink, who co-founded the company in 1988 and has built it
through acquisitions, said a crisis of “confidence” has
prompted clients to delay investment decisions. The firm said
its new business pipeline of $65.2 billion will shrink because
one institutional investor plans to end a $36 billion assignment
and manage it internally to cut costs.  “This is a challenging environment and the firm is going
to feel the effects of that environment,”  Jeffrey Hopson , an
analyst in  St. Louis  at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in an
interview. “The new business pipeline is going down and there’s
a sense that clients aren’t moving around their assets.”  Profit Rises  BlackRock’s net income increased to $595 million, or $3.23
a share, from $551 million, or $2.83, a year earlier, the
company said today in a statement. Excluding certain one-time
items, BlackRock earned $2.83 a share, compared with the $2.66
average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Investment advisory fees rose 8.6 percent from the prior
year to $1.95 billion, while revenue at the BlackRock Solutions
unit, which advises governments and institutions on troubled
assets, rose 16 percent to $117 million. Performance fees, which
are tied to returns earned by funds, fell 20 percent to $91
million.  Several of the firm’s  hedge funds  have fallen below their
previous peaks, meaning they can’t charge a performance fee, Ann
Marie Petach, the company’s chief financial officer, said on the
conference call.  Clients Pull Money  Investors removed $8 billion from BlackRock’s active stock
funds during the quarter, while adding $9.8 billion to index-
tracking products including the firm’s iShares exchange-traded
funds. Clients pulled $14 billion from BlackRock’s fixed-income
funds, driven by a single withdrawal of $9.1 billion from an
institutional investor, which BlackRock said had “minimal
revenue impact.”  Earnings were curbed by an 18 percent slump in global
stocks during the quarter, as European leaders clashed over how
to assist  Greece  and American lawmakers struggled to agree on
raising the federal government’s debt limit.  Ineffective and short-term government policies around the
world have worsened investor concerns about the economy, said
Fink. He cited the European stress tests for banks earlier this
year as an example of the failure by regulators to reassure
investors. Dexia SA passed the tests earlier this year, only to
be broken up and nationalized three months later.  ‘Glaring Example’  “This is a glaring example of how the government has
unsettled the marketplace,” Fink said.  BlackRock, which in 2009 acquired  Barclays Global Investors 
to combine stock and bond picking with index-tracking products
such as exchange-traded funds, said market uncertainty has
prompted clients to “bar-bell” portfolios by blending active
and passive products. That has led BlackRock to expand products
such as hedge fund-like mutual funds, commodities and private-
equity strategies as investors are reassessing their
investments.  Fink has built the firm through a series of acquisitions,
including the 2006 purchase of Merrill Lynch & Co.’s investment
unit. BlackRock acquired the hedge fund-of-funds business of
Quellos Group LLC in 2008. The company this year has expanded
the alternatives division, which manages hedge funds, real
estate funds and private-equity strategies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  