-- 
BNP, Foreclosure Suit, RBS, Barclays, AT&T in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-10-19T12:04:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/foreclosure-suit-madoff-rbs-barclays-at-t-in-court-news.html
BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA was sued by the U.S.
over allegations the Paris-based bank aided a grain export fraud
scheme involving commodity payment guarantees provided by the
Department of Agriculture.  A corporate banker in BNP’s Houston office allegedly helped
a scheme that defrauded the Agriculture Department of at least
$78 million through deals he made with four U.S. grain
exporters, according to a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Houston.  The banker knew the exporters were secretly controlled by
the same foreign businessman who owned the companies importing
the shipments into  Mexico , the U.S. said in the complaint. The
Agriculture Department’s Supplier Credit Guarantee Program
prohibits payment guarantees on commodity sales between a U.S.
exporter and a foreign-owned importer controlled by the same
person or group.  “Because the U.S. exporters and Mexican importers were
under common ownership and/or control, which fact defendants
knew, none of the commodity sales between these entities were
eligible for SCGP payment guarantees,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Michelle Zingaro said in the complaint.  When the Mexican importers defaulted on payments for dozens
of grain shipments from 1998 to 2006, BNP and Jovenal “Jerry”
M. Cruz, its former trade finance manager, “presented or caused
to be presented false or fraudulent claims to the USDA,”
Zingaro said in the complaint, which also names Cruz, BNP
Paribas North America and BNP Paribas Houston Agency as
defendants.  Michele Sicard and Julie Beuter, spokeswomen for BNP
Paribas, didn’t return e-mails seeking comment on the U.S.
complaint after regular business hours yesterday.  Philip Hilder, Cruz’s attorney, said in a phone interview
that the former BNP vice president has entered a plea of not
guilty and is awaiting trial in February. Three other people
charged in the scheme have pleaded guilty and are awaiting
sentencing, according to court records.  The government seeks triple damages, or $234 million, plus
penalties of as much as $11,000 for each violation of the False
Claims Act.  The case is US v BNP Paribas SA, 4:11-cv-03718, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Hedge Fund 3 Degrees Asked to Shut on Diverted Assets Claim  3 Degrees Asset Management, a hedge fund which helps manage
$215 million, was asked by Singapore’s central bank to shutter
its operations following allegations that founder Moe Ibrahim
diverted assets.  3 Degrees is trying to overturn a decision by the Monetary
Authority of Singapore and the finance minister to withdraw its
 exempt fund manager status  effective Nov. 9 and ask it to wind
down, according to a lawsuit filed with the Singapore High Court
this month. A closed hearing is scheduled for tomorrow.  The MAS probed the Singapore-based manager after one of its
funds sued Indonesian-born Agus Anwar in 2008 to recover at
least $40 million in debt. Anwar then claimed that Ibrahim
diverted $6.7 million from the fund to 3 Degrees, which is
wholly owned by Ibrahim. 3 Degrees, which focuses on distressed
debt, denied the allegations in its lawsuit.  Even if there was such a transaction, it was neither
“illegal or improper,” 3 Degrees said in its court filings.
The hedge fund manager said a fine would have been an
appropriate punishment.  Ibrahim declined to comment on the lawsuit or the status of
3 Degrees on Oct. 17. The fund has also asked the court to
prevent the announcement of the regulator’s decision, according
to the lawsuit.  “It is inappropriate for MAS to comment on this matter at
this point in time,” the Monetary Authority said in an e-mail
yesterday.  Attempts by Bloomberg News to reach Anwar weren’t
successful.  The case is 3 Degrees Asset Management Pte v Attorney
General and Monetary Authority of Singapore OS874/2011 in the
Singapore High Court.  For more, click here.  Home Sale After Bad Foreclosure Isn’t Valid, Court Rules  A Massachusetts man who bought property in a faulty
foreclosure sale didn’t have the right to bring a court case
over the property because he isn’t the owner, the state’s high
court ruled.  The  Supreme Judicial Court , which in January found that
banks can’t foreclose on a house if they don’t own the mortgage,
went one step further in a closely watched case and said a sale
after that foreclosure doesn’t transfer the property. Therefore,
the buyer couldn’t bring his court action against a previous
owner, the court ruled.  The high court upheld a lower-court  decision  that said
Francis J. Bevilacqua III, the buyer of residential property in
Haverhill, Massachusetts, never owned it because U.S. Bancorp
foreclosed before it got the mortgage. Yesterday’s ruling could
have implications in the foreclosure crisis in which banks are
accused of clouding home titles through sloppy transferring of
mortgages.  “By alleging that U.S. Bank was not the assignee of the
mortgage at the time of the purported foreclosure, Bevilacqua is
necessarily asserting that the power of sale was not complied
with, that the purported sale was invalid, and that his
grantor’s title was defective,” the court wrote. “In light of
its defective title, the intention of U.S. Bank to transfer the
property to Bevilacqua is irrelevant and he cannot have become
the owner of the property pursuant to the quitclaim deed.”  Jeffrey B. Loeb, a lawyer for Bevilacqua, said that while
he’s “disappointed” in the ruling, it does pave the way to a
solution for third-party buyers: re-foreclosure.  “It reaffirms the concept that a defective foreclosure
deed operates as an assignment of the mortgage and if you can
trace the ownership of the mortgage, that person would have the
right to re-foreclose,” said Loeb of Rich May PC in Boston.  The state high court’s January ruling in the earlier case,
U.S. Bank v. Ibanez, didn’t address the status of so-called
third-party buyers who purchase property from someone who
conducted an invalid foreclosure.  Bevilacqua bought the property in 2006 from U.S. Bancorp,
which oversees the mortgage-backed trust containing the loan.
The bank isn’t a party to the case.  The case is Bevilacqua v. Rodriguez, 10880, Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more, click here.  EPA Conduct Voids Greenhouse Gas Rule, Virginia Tells Court  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s ruling that
carbon dioxide and other  greenhouse gases  are pollutants should
be thrown out because of the agency’s conduct, Virginia Attorney
General Kenneth Cuccinelli said in a court filing.  Virginia, Texas and 13 other states made the allegation in
a filing Oct. 17 in their lawsuit challenging the greenhouse gas
designation in federal appeals court in  Washington . The states,
citing an EPA inspector general’s report, claim the agency
improperly used data from outside groups without testing its
veracity in making its “endangerment finding.”  “This approach foreclosed ‘genuine interchange’ between
the agency and the public, the fundamental purpose of the
comment process, as the agency failed to make available all the
underlying studies and data, preventing the public from
providing ‘meaningful commentary,’” Cuccinelli, a Republican,
said in the filing.  Enesta Jones, an EPA spokeswoman, declined to comment
immediately on the filing.  In 2007, the  Supreme Court  ruled that the EPA had authority
to regulate greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and
methane, under the Clean Air Act if the agency declared them a
danger to the public. The EPA issued its so-called endangerment
finding in December 2009, clearing the way for the agency to
regulate emissions from power plants, factories and other
sources linked to global  climate change .  The case is Coalition for Responsible Regulation Inc. v.
Environmental Protection Agency, 09-1322, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Access Seeks to Dismiss Madoff Trustee Suit, Cites Mets  Access International Advisors Ltd., part of a $185 million
lawsuit by the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm, asked a
judge to dismiss the case while citing a ruling that favored the
owners of the  New York  Mets.  Trustee Irving Picard last year sued Access International,
whose chief executive officer was Thierry Magon de La
Villehuchet, demanding money and fees taken from the Ponzi
scheme. Picard has no right to undo the transfers after U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff ruled that the Mets owners’ payments
from the Madoff brokerage can’t be taken back, Access said in a
court filing Oct. 17.  “The trustee’s avoidance claims are plainly barred against
Access,” according to the filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan. Payments by a stockbroker “are expressly exempted
from recovery by the settlement payment safe harbor in the
bankruptcy code,” Access said.  Rakoff narrowed by two-thirds the $1 billion demanded by
Picard from Mets owners Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz. Access,
saying it was “a Bahamian service provider” that received fees
from a Guernsey fund, Trotanoy Investment Co. -- the main
defendant in the suit -- said Picard also erred in trying to
take back “far removed, foreign incidental service fees.”  De La Villehuchet killed himself in 2008 after potentially
losing all of the money he invested with Madoff. Access, which
managed $3 billion, and its LuxAlpha Sicav unit are defendants
in one of Picard’s suits against  UBS AG. (UBSN)   Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on Access’s filing.  Picard’s suit is Picard v. Trotanoy Investment Co., 10-
ap-05208, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The district court case is 11-cv-07112, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Delaware Bankruptcy Capital Status May End With Proposed Law  A bipartisan bill sponsored by leaders of the House
Judiciary Committee may strip Delaware of its status as the
premier venue for U.S. bankruptcy cases, costing the state’s
economy an estimated $100 million a year.  Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who chairs the Judiciary
panel, introduced the bill with Michigan’s John Conyers, its
ranking Democrat. The  aim  is to prevent court-shopping and make
companies reorganize at home “to ensure maximum input from all
affected stakeholders,” Smith said in a statement. Delaware’s
congressional delegation disagreed, citing the Wilmington-based
court’s expertise.  “When someone has a specific medical problem, they go to a
specialist,” Representative John Carney, a Democrat, said by e-
mail. “Delaware’s courts are our nation’s bankruptcy
specialists.” The state’s two U.S. senators, Democrats Thomas
Carper and  Chris Coons , also oppose the bill.  Under the measure, a corporation may file for Chapter 11
reorganization only in the federal district where its principal
place of business or assets are located.  The Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Venue Reform Act of 2011 would
thus rule out most of the 90 public companies that since 2006
have sought protection from creditors in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in Wilmington, Delaware, where they are incorporated.  The bill has support from non-Delaware lawmakers seeking
“to show they are looking after the interests of their
constituents who are attorneys active in the political process
and generous with their checkbooks,” said Neal Colton, a
bankruptcy attorney at Cozen O’Connor in Philadelphia.  Though no companion Senate bill has been introduced, Colton
said he considers the House bill “a very serious piece of
legislation.”  For more, click here.  RBS Seeks to ‘Strike’ Lehman’s $345 Million Payment Demand  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  asked a bankruptcy judge
to reject a $345 million payment demand by  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s brokerage, saying the defunct firm didn’t comply
with bankruptcy rules when it made the request.  Lehman Brothers Inc . asked the judge to force Royal Bank to
pay the money, plus interest, for early termination of a 1998
swap agreement. Royal Bank refused, saying that even if
bankruptcy law bars it from claiming the money against amounts
owed, it has a security interest in the funds.  “The LBI trustee’s failure to comply with the bankruptcy
and local rules deprives RBS NV of the procedural protections it
is entitled to,” the bank said in a filing in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Manhattan Oct. 17 referring to the former ABN Amro bank
it now owns. The judge should sign an order “striking” the
demand, it said.  Brokerage trustee James Giddens, who is seeking money to
pay customers, has been demanding the funds from RBS at least
since June. RBS has resisted, including an attempt to move the
case out of bankruptcy court.  According to RBS, Giddens asked for judgment without
identifying each claim the judge should rule on, and didn’t set
up a conference before asking the judge to compel payment, among
other things.  Jake Sargent, a spokesman for Giddens, didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking comment on the RBS filing.  The Lehman brokerage, which is being liquidated separately
from its bankrupt parent, went into liquidation four days after
the Lehman parent filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history
on Sept. 15, 2008.  The brokerage bankruptcy case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Ex- News Corp. (NWSA)  Editor Sues Hacking Committee Over Contract  News Corp.’s British publishing unit faces two lawsuits
over the July firing of a tabloid editor at the behest of the
board-appointed committee probing phone-hacking and other
illegal tactics by the company’s journalists.  Matt Nixson, who was a features editor at the Sun newspaper
and formerly worked at the News of the World, where the scandal
started, filed a complaint for unfair dismissal last month at
the Employment Tribunal in  London , his lawyer Gerald Shamash
said. Nixson then sued the company again on Oct. 14 at the Royal
Courts of Justice, alleging the company breached his contract by
dismissing him without explanation, the lawyer said.  “Several months later, we still do not know why” he was
fired, Shamash said yesterday in a telephone interview. “They
maintain they cannot tell us. We have asked the police and
they’ve said he’s of no interest to them.”  Nixson is at least the fifth former employee to sue the New
York-based company since the phone-hacking scandal erupted in
July and the first to name members of its Management & Standards
Committee as defendants. The MSC was formed in July to deal with
police and political investigations into charges that News Corp.
reporters used illegal tactics to acquire information for
stories, forcing the company to close the News of the World.  Simon Greenberg, Will Lewis and Jeffrey Palker, the members
of the MSC, are named in Nixson’s lawsuit, along with commercial
lawyer Anthony Grabiner, a member of the U.K. Parliament’s House
of Lords who was hired as an independent overseer of the
committee. The committee’s decision that Nixson should be
dismissed “induced” the contract breach, Shamash said.  News International spokeswoman Daisy Dunlop declined to
comment on the cases yesterday, as did Paul Durman, a spokesman
for the MSC.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Chiesi’s New Prison Home More Camp Cupcake Than ‘Chained Heat’  Danielle Chiesi won’t need her pearls and stiletto heels
for a while. For the next 30 months, it’ll be khakis and work
boots, Bloomberg News’ Katherine Burton reports.  Chiesi, the 45-year-old femme fatale analyst who pleaded
guilty to securities fraud in the biggest U.S. insider-trading
case on record, was set to arrive yesterday at Federal Prison
Camp Alderson in West Virginia. She’ll be serving time for
passing illegal stock tips to hedge-fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam ,
who was sentenced last week to 11 years in federal prison.  Alderson, nestled in the foothills of the Allegheny
Mountains, ranks among the cushiest federal prisons. It’s more
college campus than  “Chained Heat,”  the 1983 exploitation film
about women in jail.  The red brick, Georgian Revival buildings of Camp Cupcake,
as former inmates call Alderson, were modeled after  Bucknell
University  in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania. There are no fences,
barbed wire or guard towers. For the 1,166 prisoners, tedium is
a bigger threat than violence.  Even so, for educated professionals like Chiesi who are
used to calling the shots, the prison experience can be
devastating, said Herbert Hoelter, head of the nonprofit
 National Center on Institutions and Alternatives  in Baltimore.  “Every decision is made for you -- when you work, when you
eat -- it doesn’t vary,” he said. “You feel useless,” added
Hoelter, who provided pre-incarceration counseling to white-
collar criminals Michael Milken and Ivan Boesky.  For more, click here.  Barclays Loses Appeal in FSA Probe of Miner’s Share Fraud  Barclays Plc (BARC)  failed to convince a London court to hold
Britain’s financial regulator liable for losses suffered when a
gold-mining company accused of fraud had its assets at the bank
frozen.  Judges at the U.K.’s Court of Appeal yesterday refused to
grant an order saying the Financial Services Authority should
pay for all losses resulting from an injunction freezing the
Barclays accounts of  Sinaloa Gold Plc. (S6G)   The U.K.’s second-largest bank had argued the FSA should
pay for all costs resulting from its enforcement actions, not
just the expense of finding and freezing the assets. Judge
Nicholas Patten disagreed, saying in a written verdict this type
of order would be “a kind of blank cheque.”  The FSA is investigating Sinaloa, which explores for gold
in Mexico, and trading company PH Capital Invest over the
alleged sale of “worthless” shares in a boiler-room fraud,
according to the appeal court judgment.  In December 2010, the FSA won an order prohibiting the sale
of Sinaloa stock and freezing assets with a value of as much as
858,267 pounds ($1.3 million).  The FSA and Barclays didn’t immediately respond to requests
for comment.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here. For the
latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  U.S. Justice Department Said to Bring in Lawyer for AT&T Trial  The U.S. Justice Department is bringing in an outside trial
lawyer for its lawsuit against  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s acquisition of T-
Mobile USA Inc., according to two people familiar with the
matter.  The department’s antitrust division is hiring Los Angeles-
based lawyer Glenn Pomerantz, a partner at Munger, Tolles &
Olson LLP, to bolster its trial team and work with the
division’s chief litigator, Assistant U.S. Attorney General
Joseph Wayland, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the process of getting Pomerantz on board isn’t final.  Enlisting Pomerantz in the case shows that the Justice
Department is preparing for trial and not in the process of
negotiating a settlement, said Bert Foer, president of the
American Antitrust Institute in Washington.  “This is going to be a very large case that requires
additional resources,” Foer said.  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department,
declined to comment on the move. Pomerantz didn’t immediately
respond to e-mails and phone calls seeking comment, while AT&T
spokesman Michael Balmoris declined to comment.  Pomerantz, who works primarily with media and entertainment
companies, according to a biography posted on the Munger, Tolles
& Olson  website , was sought out for his antitrust litigation
experience, one of the people said. He will support Wayland, who
will lead the trial team, another person said.  The second hearing in the case is scheduled Oct. 24 before
U.S. District Judge Ellen S. Huvelle in Washington.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Sheppard Mullin Hires IP Litigator From Fish & Richardson  Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP hired Nagendra
“Nick” Setty, an intellectual-property litigator for about 20
years, from Fish & Richardson PC.  Setty will serve as co-chair of Los Angeles-based Sheppard
Mullin’s 70-attorney intellectual-property practice group,
according to a  statement  issued yesterday by the firm.  Setty was the managing principal at Fish & Richardson’s
Atlanta office before joining Sheppard Mullin, an AmLaw 100 firm
that specializes in corporate litigation, according to the
statement.  “Nick is an extremely experienced, high-profile patent
litigator,” Guy N. Halgren, Sheppard Mullin’s chairman, said in
the statement. “He brings a sophisticated patent litigation
practice to our Palo Alto and San Francisco offices and
strengthens our global IP capabilities.”  Setty has served as lead counsel in more than 120 IP cases
in the past 20 years. Some of his clients included  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , Cisco Systems Inc., LG Electronics Inc., Samsung
Electronics Co. and Siemens AG.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 