-- 
France’s Socialists Get Real on Europe’s Economic Crisis: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-19T00:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/france-s-socialists-are-getting-realistic-on-europe-economic-crisis-view.html
In a vote that may have serious
consequences for  Europe ’s economic crisis, the French Socialist
Party showed laudable level-headedness this week in selecting
the moderate Francois Hollande as its presidential candidate for
next year’s election.  Hollande ran on a platform that was largely free of the
demagoguery that has characterized the French left’s electoral
message in the past. Given an electorate beset by anxiety over a
debt and banking crisis, it would have been easy for Hollande or
his principal rival for the nomination,  Martine Aubry , to appeal
to class resentment or reduce their nation’s troubles to the
supposed domination of the all-purpose foreign boogeyman, the
“Anglo-Saxon” economic model that values profit more than
people.  Instead, Hollande  focused  on the correct big issue: the
need for  France  to shrink its ballooning budget deficit. In many
regards, his approach is almost indistinguishable from that of
his expected adversary in the election, France’s center-right
president,  Nicolas Sarkozy . Both vow to narrow the deficit to 3
percent of gross domestic product in 2013, from about 7 percent
now. Hollande, however, goes further, by promising a balanced
budget by 2017.  Most surprising, perhaps, the Socialist agenda calls for
capping government-spending increases at 1.7 percent a year (a
little less than the latest inflation rate of 2.2 percent).
Sarkozy’s recently introduced austerity measures would limit
spending growth at 1 percent.  To be sure, Hollande does lean on some old-fashioned and
impractical thinking. He wants to restore the  retirement age  to
60 for some workers, rolling back a sensible move by Sarkozy to
bring it up to 62, still far lower than in other comparable
economies with aging populations.  Hollande has declined to endorse a call for higher taxes on
the wealthy, but proposes instead to do away with a series of
tax exemptions enacted by Sarkozy that he says favor the highest
incomes. Corporate taxes, currently at 33 percent, would be
lowered to 20 percent for companies that reinvest their profit
and would be raised as high as 40 percent for firms that don’t
do so or pay out dividends deemed excessive.  Regrettably, he also has endorsed a 0.5 percent levy on
trades of stocks, bonds and derivatives by financial
institutions. As we have said before, this proposal, known as
the  Tobin tax  after its creator, the U.S. economist  James Tobin ,
would have disastrous consequences by curbing growth.  None of this is intended as an endorsement of Hollande or
any other candidate. Rather, we applaud the candor with which
French politicians are making voters aware of the difficult
choices ahead.  France was given a reminder of the stakes this week when
Moody’s Investors Service said the nation’s top AAA credit
rating may be at risk if the government agrees to guarantee the
debt of weaker euro-area countries such as Italy and  Spain  as
part of a rescue package. The uncertainty already has been
damaging: The cost of insuring French bonds using credit-default
swaps has soared to 191.5 basis points, from an average of about
84 in the first half of the year, making France’s debt most
expensive to protect among the top-rated nations in Europe.  Of course, it remains to be seen whether Hollande and
Sarkozy will stick to this responsible tone as the campaign gets
under way. They are sure to be under considerable pressure to
heat up their rhetoric to counter a much-less-measured third-
party challenger, the far-right candidate Marine Le Pen, whose
strategy will be to capitalize on the ambient anger with her
anti-immigrant, anti-globalization message.  The mainstream candidates should resist the temptation to
join her on the low road. A debased campaign will only harm
France and further imperil the global economy.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 