-- 
France Ties Team Selection Record; Beale Is Back: Rugby World Cup Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-19T02:13:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/france-ties-team-selection-record-beale-is-back-rugby-world-cup-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
stories from the 2011  Rugby World Cup  in New Zealand.  Record-Tying Selection  Two-time runner-up France retained the starting team that
beat England and Wales to face host nation New Zealand in the
Oct. 23 Rugby World Cup final at Auckland’s  Eden Park .  Coach Marc Lievremont’s selection makes France only the
second team in the event’s 24-year history to go into three
straight games with the same starting lineup after Argentina in
2007, tournament organizers said. The French replacements will
be announced later in the week.  “I didn’t hesitate, it was quite clear,” Lievremont, a
member of the French team that lost to Australia in the 1999
final, said of his picks. “I believe my team has a chance.”  Eleven of the starting 15 named today began the 37-17 Pool
A loss to the All Blacks on Sept. 24.  New Zealand  also defeated
France in the 1987 World Cup final at Eden Park.  FRANCE: Maxime Medard, Vincent Clerc, Aurelien Rougerie,
Maxime Mermoz, Alexis Palisson, Morgan Parra, Dimitri Yachvili,
Imanol Harinordoquy, Julien Bonnaire, Thierry Dusautoir
(captain), Lionel Nallet, Pascal Pape, Nicolas Mas, William
Servat, Jean-Baptiste Poux.  Replacements: To be confirmed.  Beale Back  Australia recalled Kurtley Beale at full-back in one of
eight changes for the third-place playoff against Wales in two
days as second-row forward Nathan Sharpe was named to make his
100th Test appearance.  Beale missed the 20-6 semifinal loss to New Zealand three
days ago because of a hamstring injury. His return sees Adam Ashley-Cooper shift back into midfield to form a center pairing
with  Berrick Barnes , who replaces the injured Pat McCabe.  Sharpe, named in place of the injured  Dan Vickerman , is set
to become the fifth Wallaby to play 100 Tests. Coach Robbie Deans also picked an entirely new front row and omitted former
captain Rocky Elsom from the 22-man squad with  Scott
Higginbotham  starting at blindside flanker.  The match is a repeat of the 1987 third-place playoff,
which Wales won for its best finish at a Rugby World Cup.  AUSTRALIA:  Kurtley Beale , James O’Connor, Adam Ashley-
Cooper, Berrick Barnes, Digby Ioane, Quade Cooper, Will Genia,
Ben McCalman, David Pocock, Scott Higginbotham, Nathan Sharpe,
James Horwill (captain), Salesi Ma’afu, Tatafu Polota Nau, James
Slipper.  Replacements: Saia Fainga’a, Ben Alexander, Rob Simmons,
Radike Samo,  Luke Burgess , Anthony Fainga’a, Rob Horne.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  