-- 
France Telecom Said to Reach Deal to Buy Congo-China Telecom

-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-10-20T09:06:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/france-telecom-said-to-reach-deal-to-buy-congo-china-telecom.html
France Telecom SA (FTE)  is close to
announcing the purchase of Congo-China Telecom, the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo’s fourth-largest telecom operator, people with
knowledge of the situation said.  The deal, which will expand an African mobile presence that
already includes  France Telecom  operations in countries such as
Kenya and Cameroon, may be announced as soon as today, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private.  France Telecom will buy 51 percent of Congo-China from
China’s  ZTE Corp. (000063) , these people said. The Congolese government
approved a sale of its 49 percent stake in Congo-China to France
Telecom earlier this month. The African country will get $78
million as part of that deal, Faustin Mpako, the chief of staff
at the Portfolio Ministry, said at the time.  Paris-based France Telecom is among telecommunications
operators pushing into African countries as revenue growth slows
in some emerging markets because of rising mobile penetration.
 MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , South Africa’s largest mobile provider, is
bidding for Vodacom Congo SPRL, a rival Congolese operator, a
person familiar with the situation said this week, and France
Telecom has entered new markets including Iraq and Morocco in
the last year.  Low Income  Still, entering Congo may present challenges. With more than
65 million people and mobile penetration of 17 percent, compared
with rates well over 100 percent in some European countries,
it’s one of Africa’s largest and poorest nations. While it has a
land area about one-fourth the size of the U.S., roads are
scarce and per capita income is about $300, according to the
U.S. Central Intelligence Agency’s World Factbook.  France Telecom Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard is
reorienting the company toward African markets to compensate for
stagnant revenue at home. Last year, he set a target of doubling
emerging-market revenue by 2015, from about 3.3 billion euros
($4.5 billion) in 2009. To reduce its dependence on Europe, it
has targeted units in Switzerland, Austria and Portugal for
potential sale.  The list of potential high-growth markets for mobile
operators in Africa is dwindling as companies including  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , India’s  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and Millicom International
Cellular SA continue a fierce fight with local rivals for
subscribers.  To expand further, France Telecom executives have spoken of
the potential of Ethiopia, a country of more than 80 million
where a state telecom monopoly dominates the industry. It also
may be interested in Algeria, where  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) ,
founded by Egyptian billionaire Naguib Sawiris, is exiting after
a tax dispute.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  advised ZTE on the Congo transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  