-- 
Freeport Says Copper Mine in Indonesia Is Operating at Two-Thirds Capacity

-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-10-20T04:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/freeport-says-grasberg-pit-at-two-thirds-capacity-amid-strike.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ,
the world’s largest publicly traded copper miner, said it’s
operating the open pit at the Grasberg mine in  Indonesia  at
about two-thirds of capacity after workers went on strike.  The Phoenix-based company is “uncertain” how soon the
dispute will be resolved, Chief Executive Officer Richard Adkerson said yesterday on Freeport’s third-quarter earnings
conference call. The company lowered its full-year copper sales
forecast by 100 million pounds (45,360 metric tons) to 3.8
billion pounds because of protests by workers at Grasberg, the
latest of which started Sept. 15.  Strikes at Grasberg, which has the world’s largest
recoverable reserves of copper, lost 70 million pounds of sales
of the metal in the third quarter, Freeport said. An
unidentified gunman killed three contractors last week while a
pipeline carrying ore was sabotaged on Oct. 16, according to the
company. The mine’s mill is running at 75 to 80 percent of
capacity and underground operations are at about 80 percent of
capacity, Adkerson said.  “I was pleasantly surprised that they are essentially able
to operate at a fairly high level with just 60 percent of the
regular workforce,” Tony Rizzuto, a New York-based analyst at
Dahlman Rose & Co., said in a telephone interview. He doesn’t
own the stock and rates the shares a “buy.”  Global Strikes  Workers in Peru,  Chile ,  Bolivia  and Indonesia have downed
tools at copper, gold and zinc mines this year to seek improved
conditions and a bigger slice of record profits after metal
prices increased. About 8,000 workers at Grasberg started a
strike for higher wages last month. The stoppage was extended
for a second month until Nov. 15.  The union members will continue blocking the main road to
Grasberg until management is willing to return with a new offer
on wage increases, according to Virgo Solossa, head of
organizational affairs at PT Freeport Indonesia’s union.
Freeport said Oct. 18 that the action is illegal.  “If they think the road block is illegal, why don’t they
open a dialog with us?” Solossa said by telephone from Timika,
the closest town to Grasberg. “We haven’t heard anything from
the management until now.”  The union will appeal in a meeting with parliament members
today for Freeport to resume talks, he said.  Labor Court  The Grasberg union agreed to cut its wage-raise demands to
$7.50 to $33 an hour, Solossa said Oct. 18. Workers had
initially sought an increase of $35 to $200 an hour from $1.50
to $3.50 currently. Freeport said it has offered a 25 percent
raise over two years.  Freeport has filed a labor court application in Indonesia,
after the striking workers rejected recommendations made by a
government-appointed mediator, Adkerson said on the call.  A dispute at its Cerro Verde mine in  Peru  hasn’t
“materially” affected copper and molybdenum output, Freeport
said. Workers at Cerro Verde went on strike on Sept. 29. The
dispute can be resolved “in the near term,” Adkerson said.  Strikes at Grasberg also lost Freeport 100,000 ounces of
gold in the third quarter, Adkerson said. Gold sales of 409,000
ounces in the period missed Freeport’s 415,000-ounce forecast.
Copper sales of 947 million pounds beat a July 2011 prediction
of 940 million pounds, mainly because of the timing of shipments
in  North America , Freeport said.  Expansion Studies  Freeport fell 2.8 percent to $34.38 at the close in  New
York . The company said in a separate statement its quarterly
dividend will be 25 cents a share.  Third-quarter net income fell 11 percent to $1.05 billion,
or $1.10 a share, from $1.18 billion, or $1.24, Freeport said.
The average of 18 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was
for $1.01 a share. Sales were little changed at $5.2 billion,
from $5.15 billion previously, beating the $4.72 average of
analysts’ estimates.  Freeport is studying expansions in Peru, the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo and  Arizona  that could add 1 billion pounds of
annual copper production at a cost of $6 billion, Adkerson said.
The company raised its estimate for the cost of expanding Cerro
Verde’s mill by $500 million to about $4 billion.  “That’s the world the industry lives in today,” the CEO
said. “We watch what is going on with others in the industry
and capital-cost escalation is a significant factor and it is
going to have an impact on supply development and the timing of
projects.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  