-- 
Japan Vows Tax Cuts for Foreign Firms to Spur Quake Rebound

-- B y   P a t r i c k   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-10-19T09:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/furukawa-says-japan-won-t-tax-foreign-firms-in-disaster-areas.html
Japan  unveiled an initiative to lure
foreign investment to its devastated northeast as economists,
investors and corporate leaders urged stronger steps to support
business and restore economic growth.  National Strategy Minister Motohisa Furukawa said at a
Bloomberg conference in  Tokyo  today that foreign companies
setting up new operations in areas hit by the March 11
earthquake and nuclear disaster won’t have to pay tax for five
years. At the same gathering, Lawson Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Takeshi Niinami said Japan needs to push for free trade
to spur anti-protectionist sentiment in the region while doing
more to back domestic firms.  Today’s commitment from Furukawa is one of the strongest
signs yet that Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s administration
sees foreign trade and investment as a key contributor to
Japan’s rebound from three straight quarters of economic
contraction. Noda’s cabinet has pledged to make a decision
“soon” on whether to proceed with free-trade talks in the
U.S.-led  Trans-Pacific Partnership  forum.  Japanese leaders must “push for more free trade, push for
the TPP,” something that may pressure China to also embrace
trade liberalization, said  Gerald Curtis , a Japanese politics
professor at  Columbia University  in  New York .  Nuclear Backlash  Furukawa, 45, said Japan must lead other countries facing
similar challenges to economic growth as it struggles to
rebuild. The magnitude-9 temblor and tsunami left about 20,000
people dead or missing, caused an estimated 16.9 trillion yen
($220 billion) in damage and triggered the world’s worst nuclear
accident since Chernobyl, sparking a backlash against atomic
energy.  “We want to aggressively welcome foreign vitality,”
Furukawa said. “We’ve decided to virtually eliminate corporate
taxes for firms that set up new operations in the special
recovery zone, including foreign firms.”  The government announced the tax measures earlier this
month without specifying whether overseas companies were
eligible. Naoki Iizuka, a senior economist at Mizuho Securities
Co., called the tax breaks a “very positive step” that should
be extended from the disaster-struck region to the entire
country.  ‘Hollowing Out’  The government is compiling measures this week to help
companies cope with a strong yen that risks a “hollowing out”
of industry as firms relocate abroad, Furukawa said. Noda is
preparing to present a third stimulus plan of 12.1 trillion yen
to parliament this month to help rebuild. The Diet has already
approved two packages totaling about 6 trillion yen.  Furukawa, a former Ministry of Finance official, said Japan
wants to “strategically” promote free trade accords, without
proving specifics.  In an interview last year he said Japan must “open the
country” to free trade or risk continued stagnant economic
growth and high unemployment.  While no fixed timeline for becoming part of the TPP trade
talks has been set, Noda’s  Democratic Party  of Japan is aiming
to reach a decision ahead of the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit in  Hawaii  on Nov. 12-13.  Japan’s currency has risen 5.8 percent so far this year
against the dollar and touched a postwar high of 75.95 yen on
Aug. 19. Nissan Motor Co. chief executive officer  Carlos Ghosn 
said this month the yen’s appreciation threatens to derail a
rebound in the nation’s economy.  ‘Business First’  Japan’s political leaders should do more to advocate for
companies doing business in countries such as China and avoid
comments that can stir-up historical animosity, Lawson’s Niinami
said.  “Do not talk about history,” he said. “Always business
first.”  Japan’s need to take effective measures to boost growth is
underscored by the changing balance of power in the region,
Columbia’s Curtis said.  “How do you balance  China ’s growing political and military
power so you’re not at the mercy of Chinese policy and
demands?” he said.  “The most important factor is to have a
stronger economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Harrington in Tokyo at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  