-- 
Gafisa Leads Brazil Homebuilder Gains on Third-Quarter Sales

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-10-19T20:25:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/gafisa-leads-brazil-homebuilder-advances-on-third-quarter-sales.html
Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  led a rally for Brazilian
homebuilders after gains in third-quarter sales indicated the
industry is withstanding a slowdown in economic growth.  Gafisa,  Brazil ’s third-biggest homebuilder by revenue,
increased 4.2 percent to a one-month high of 6.15 reais at the
close of trading in Sao Paulo.  Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3) , the sixth-
biggest, rose 1 percent to 10.42 reais as the  BM&FBovespa Real
Estate (IMOBBV)  Index advanced 1.7 percent. The benchmark Bovespa index
lost 0.1 percent.  Gafisa’s contracted sales climbed 2.6 percent from a year
earlier to 1.05 billion reais ($594.7 million), while Rossi’s
expanded 14 percent to 917 million reais, according to
regulatory filings from the companies detailing preliminary
results. The figures led Paulo Renelli Neto, an analyst at Banco
J. Safra SA in  Sao Paulo , to reiterate his “outperform”
recommendation for Gafisa, while Banco BTG Pactual SA maintained
its “buy” on Rossi.  Rossi presented “stable sales speed” that indicated “no
meaningful deceleration,” BTG analyst Marcello Milman said in a
report today.  Homebuilders are among the biggest decliners on the Bovespa
this year amid the fastest inflation since 2005 and expectations
gross domestic product will expand at less than half of 2010’s
7.5 percent pace. Gafisa is down 49 percent this year while
Rossi has lost 30 percent. The Bovespa is down 21 percent in the
period.  Consumer prices jumped 7.3 percent in the 12 months through
September, according to the national statistics agency.
Economists expect Brazilian GDP to grow 3.4 percent this year,
the weekly central bank survey published Oct. 17 showed.  BR Malls  BR Malls Participacoes SA (BRML3) , Brazil’s biggest owner of malls,
advanced 2.4 percent to 19 reais. Sales in stores located in the
shopping centers it operates rose 24 percent to 3.9 billion
reais in the third quarter, the company said in a filing on
preliminary results.  “We maintain our positive view on the stock, as we believe
that the company is on track to delivering strong results and
represents a defensive play in the current uncertain environment
due to the predictability of its base rent component in
revenues,” Guilherme Assis, an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates Inc., wrote in a note to clients dated yesterday. He
rates BR Malls “outperform.”  Smaller rival  Aliansce Shopping Centers SA (ALSC3)  increased 1.4
percent to 12.88 reais after saying sales in its malls rose 28
percent to 1.23 billion reais.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  