-- 
GAO Says Fed Boards Need to Improve Conflicts Policy, Diversity

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-10-19T16:25:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/gao-says-fed-boards-need-to-improve-conflicts-policy-diversity.html
The  Federal Reserve  needs to improve
transparency at its regional banks and strengthen policies
governing conflicts of interest, a Government Accountability
Office report found.  The report, released today in Washington, recommended that
all 12 reserve banks “clearly document the roles and
responsibilities of the directors, including restrictions on
their involvement in supervision and regulation activities, in
their bylaws.” It also highlighted the lack of economic and
racial diversity on reserve bank boards.  Senator  Bernard Sanders , a Vermont Independent, said the
GAO’s findings pointed to an “unacceptable” level of influence
by financial leaders over their regulators. “Not only do they
run the banks, they run the institutions that regulate the
banks,” Sanders said in a emailed statement. Sanders wrote the
legislation requiring the audit in the Dodd-Frank Act passed
last year.  The report makes four recommendations aimed at enhancing
diversity of Federal Reserve bank boards, strengthening policies
for managing conflicts of interest and enhancing transparency.
One recommendation calls on the Reserve Banks to “make public
key governance documents, such as bylaws, ethics policies, and
committee assignments by posting them to their Web sites.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in a reply included with the
report, said the recommendations “all have merit” and the Fed
“will work to implement each of them.”  Issue in Congress  The governance of Fed banks is still an issue in Congress,
where the senior Democrat on the House Financial Services
Committee,  Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts , wants to eliminate
reserve bank presidents’ votes on monetary policy decisions.  Of the five regional presidents who are currently voting
members of the  Federal Open Market Committee , the Fed panel that
sets  interest rates , “all of them were selected by boards where
representatives of private and financial institutions account
for the majority of board members,” Frank said in a memo
released on the committee’s Web site.  The Fed revised its rules for reserve bank directors in
2009 after potential conflicts emerged during the 2008-2009
financial crisis involving former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Chairman  Stephen Friedman . Even so, the GAO said, the Fed needs
to take “additional steps to strengthen controls designed to
manage conflicts of interest” and to increase public disclosure
of directors’ roles and responsibilities.  ‘Appearance of Conflict’  The GAO said director representation as mandated by the
Federal Reserve Act “creates an appearance of conflict of
interest.” This is because so-called Class A directors
represent member banks, and Class B directors are elected by
member banks. Class A and B directors might own stock in banks
that are supervised by the Fed “while also overseeing aspects
of the reserve banks’ operations, including the bank presidents’
evaluation and salary and personnel decisions for the
supervision and regulation function,” the report said.  The report includes examples of ties between Reserve Bank
board members and financial firms in their districts that it
said gave rise to questions about potential conflicts of
interest.  Before  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy
in September 2008, Chief Executive Officer Richard Fuld met with
then-New York Fed President  Timothy F. Geithner  and “the
chairman about Lehman’s deteriorating financial condition,
without the full board, and concluded that FRBNY faced
reputational risk regardless of the action taken,” the report
said.  Troubled Institutions  “Under Federal Reserve Board practice, Reserve Bank
directors affiliated with troubled financial institutions are
encouraged to resign or risk removal from the board,” the GAO
said. Fed officials told the GAO that Fuld “voluntarily”
resigned before Lehman Brothers went bankrupt, the report said.  Each of the Fed’s 12 regional banks has a nine-member board
of directors, or 108 directors for the total system. The GAO
surveyed 91 of the directors and found that 56 had at least some
experience in the financial industry and 86 also held board
positions at public and private companies, public and private
universities, and nonprofit organizations.  Many of the Fed directors during the 2007-2009 financial
crisis worked for firms that received emergency assistance from
the Fed’s rescue programs, which included $3.3 trillion in aid
provided to stem the worst financial panic since the Great
Depression.  The GAO said its review “did not reveal that Reserve Bank
directors received nonpublic information on the emergency
programs.” The GAO said it reviewed minutes from the meetings
and said that discussion of emergency programs occurred after
their public announcement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ; 