-- 
Gasoline Falls as U.S. Demand Slides to Eight-Month Low

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-10-19T20:06:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/gasoline-falls-on-speculation-that-u-s-fuel-demand-will-weaken.html
Gasoline fell to the lowest level in
eight days after the Energy Department reported that demand for
the motor fuel in the U.S. slid last week to the least since
February.  Futures slipped as deliveries to wholesalers decreased 4.6
percent in the week ended Oct. 14 to 8.6 million barrels a day.
On a four-week average, consumption was 1.5 percent below a year
earlier. Total fuel use sank 2.2 percent to a six-month low of
18.3 million barrels a day from the prior week.  “It doesn’t have really strong demand behind it and the
draws are really because of lower utilization rates,” said  Gene
McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut.  Gasoline for November delivery sank 7.54 cents, or 2.7
percent, to settle at $2.6715 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Futures deepened losses after the  Federal Reserve , in its
Beige Book survey released today, said companies are more
pessimistic about the economic recovery.  “The economy looks weak, demand looks weak and the
problems in Europe are not resolved,” said  James Cordier ,
portfolio manager at OptionSellers.com in Tampa,  Florida .  Gasoline Supplies  Stockpiles of the motor fuel dropped 3.32 million barrels
to 206.3 million, a five-month low. Supplies fell as refiners
lowered rates 1.1 percentage points to 83.1 percent of capacity,
the lowest level since the week ended May 6.  November-delivery heating oil declined 4.65 cents, or 1.5
percent, to settle at $2.9812 a gallon on the exchange. It was
the largest decline since Sept. 28.  Futures touched $3.0611 after the department reported that
diesel and heating oil inventories dropped 4.27 million barrels
last week to 149.7 million, the lowest level in 13 weeks and
largest decline since Nov. 5. Supplies were 12 percent below a
year earlier, according to department data. Heating oil use
typically rises amid colder winter weather.  “The report is more bullish for heating oil since we’re
getting to the heating oil season and should be stocking up,”
said  Sander Cohan , an analyst with Energy Security Analysis Inc.
in Wakefield,  Massachusetts .  Temperatures will be below-average in the Midwest from Oct.
18 to Oct. 22 and in the Northeast from Oct. 23 to Oct. 27, said
 Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC.  Distillate Demand  Demand for industrial, trucking and home-heating fuels rose
2.8 percent to 4.18 million barrels a day, the most since March.
On a four-week average, consumption was 5.8 percent higher than
a year earlier.  Futures also weakened after crude oil on the Nymex
retreated after failing to break above resistance at $90,
touching $89.51 before settling at $86.11, down $2.23.  “Ninety dollars is major resistance,” McGillian said.
“The market lost some momentum.”  Brent crude  retreated as Greek protesters clashed with
police after Prime Minister  George Papandreou  vowed to push
through a further round of austerity as  Europe ’s leaders
struggle to prevent that country’s sovereign debt crisis from
engulfing the region’s banks. December-settlement Brent sank
$2.76 to $108.39 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.  “When you see that kind of unrest that’s not bullish,”
said Ray Carbone, president of Paramount Options Inc. in  New
York  and a broker at the New York Mercantile Exchange. “There’s
no evidence the debt situation has changed.”  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.5
cent to $3.474 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data. It was
the ninth consecutive increase as prices rose to the highest
level since Sept. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  