-- 
General Atlantic Non-U.S. Assets Top 50% on Asia, Latin America

-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 
2011-10-19T00:48:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/general-atlantic-non-u-s-assets-top-50-on-asia-latin-america.html
General Atlantic LLC, the private
equity firm whose investments include Facebook Inc. and
Brazilian bourse  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , said non-U.S. investments have
grown to more than half of its assets and may rise further.  “If you had asked us five years ago or three years ago,
that would not have been the case,” Abhay Havaldar, who moved
to Singapore from India in June to run the Southeast Asian unit,
said in a phone interview on Oct. 17. “It’s a trend line which
is visible to us. We don’t try and forecast where it will end.”  Asia ’s and  Latin America ’s share of the world’s largest
companies will grow, Havaldar said. Firms including TPG Capital
and Carlyle Group said this year they will look at emerging
markets for investments as populations and disposable incomes
grow. Fundraising for Asia-Pacific investments is recovering
faster than for  North America  and Europe, according to a  report 
from Preqin, a research firm.  General Atlantic has $15.1 billion under management, making
it the world’s twelfth-largest global private equity manager,
according to Private Equity International’s 2011  rankings . Half
the funds have yet to be deployed, Havaldar said.  In Southeast Asia, General Atlantic will focus on its six
industries of business services, consumer businesses, energy &
resources, financial services, health care, and Internet &
technology companies, Havaldar said. It may also expand into
agricultural commodities, and trade and trade services.  “We are thinking about which are the businesses which will
go global originating from this part of the world,” said
Havaldar.  China , India  General Atlantic has been active in China since 1999 and in
 India  since it made a $100 million investment in Patni Computer
Systems Ltd. in September 2002, according to its website and a
press release from Patni. IGate Corp. acquired Patni in January
for $1.22 billion.  General Atlantic has invested almost $1 billion each in
China and India, including China’s social networking site Renren
Inc. and e-commerce company Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., along
with Indian outsourcing company  Genpact Ltd. (G)  and National Stock
Exchange of India Ltd.  General Atlantic is studying four opportunities in India
valued at $100 million to $200 million each, Ranjit Pandit, head
of investments for the country, said in an interview in Mumbai
on Oct. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in  Singapore  at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  