-- 
Georgia Seizes Ivanishvili Bank’s Millions in Laundering Sting

-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 
2011-10-19T09:25:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/georgia-seizes-ivanishvili-bank-s-millions-in-laundering-sting.html
Georgian police seized “several
million dollars and euros” from billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili’s Cartu Bank and detained at least six people on
suspicion of  money laundering .  Shota Utiashvili, an  Interior Ministry  spokesman, said by
telephone that the money “belonged” to  Tbilisi-based Cartu  and
had been seized from an armored delivery van. He declined to
name the detained people, who were released after questioning.  Eka Beselia, a lawyer for Ivanishvili, confirmed that the
confiscated money belonged to Cartu. She said the seizure was
“illegal” and called on authorities to return the money.
Members of Ivanishvili’s security detail were also forced to
surrender their weapons, she said in an interview.  Cartu Bank belongs to Ivanishvili, Irakli Garibashvili, a
member of the lender’s  supervisory board , said in an interview
last week. Elza Nabakhteveli, a spokeswoman for Ivanishvili,
confirmed his ownership.  Ivanishvili, a Rossiiskiy Kredit Bank  board member , was
stripped of Georgian citizenship on Oct. 11, four days after he
announced plans to create an opposition party to challenge
President Mikheil Saakashvili. In May, Ivanishvili accused the
president of orchestrating a smear campaign against him by
spreading rumors that he was bankrolling the government.  Forbes magazine in March  estimated Ivanishvili’s wealth  at
$5.5 billion, equal to almost half of  Georgia ’s $11.7 billion
economy. Nabakhteveli said in May that the Forbes estimate was
accurate and that he held about one-third of his assets in
 Russia  and the remainder in market investments abroad.
Ivanishvili lives primarily in his native village, Chorvila.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  