-- 
Bunds Fall on Reports Euro Bailout Fund to Be Enlarged: Greek Notes Drop

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-10-19T15:27:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/german-bunds-fall-on-reports-europe-bailout-fund-to-be-enlarged.html
German bunds fell for the first time
in three days as stocks rose on speculation  Europe ’s leaders are
making progress with plans to resolve the region’s debt crisis,
boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  Ten-year yields climbed from near a one-week low after the
U.K.’s Guardian newspaper reported that Germany and France have
agreed to boost the European Financial Stability Facility to 2
trillion euros ($2.76 trillion) from 440 billion euros. German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers in Berlin
that the bailout fund may be increased to a maximum of 1
trillion euros, Financial Times Deutschland reported. French,
Spanish and Greek bonds also fell.  “It looks like it’s risk-on today,” pushing bund yields
higher, said Rasmus Rousing, a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “In terms of the political landscape
in Europe, it’s still hard to filter the noise. There’s still a
lot of volatility and uncertainty.”  German 10-year yields increased four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.06 percent at 4:14 p.m.  London  time,
after falling to 1.99 percent yesterday, the lowest since Oct.
10. The 2.5 percent bond due September 2021 dropped 0.395, or
3.95 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 101.705. The two-year
yield increased three basis points to 0.61 percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.4 percent, snapping a
two-day decline.  Bank Assistance  Germany and France have also agreed to recapitalize banks,
the Guardian said in its report yesterday, citing European Union
diplomats. A person with direct knowledge of the discussions
told Bloomberg News no deal has been reached on expanding the
bailout fund. Euro-area leaders are scheduled to meet at a
summit in Brussels on Oct. 23.  Bunds maintained losses after  Germany  sold 4.1 billion
euros of 10-year debt, less than the maximum target of 5 billion
euros, the Bundesbank said. The 2.25 percent bonds were sold at
an average yield of 2.09 percent, while bids totaled 4.55
billion euros, the central bank said.  “German paper is very expensive,” said Annalisa Piazza, a
fixed-income strategist at broker Newedge Group in London. “Any
news that something is moving in terms of the development of the
European crisis or any better-than-expected data was going to
hit the long end of the curve.”  Spanish Bonds  Spanish bonds dropped for an eight day after Moody’s
Investors Service cut the nation’s credit rating yesterday to
its fifth-highest investment grade. The company lowered its
assessment of  Spain ’s creditworthiness by two levels to A1 from
Aa2, with the outlook remaining negative.  Spain’s 10-year yields climbed five basis points to 5.40
percent. Five-year rates also basis points to 4.70 percent.  Italy’s 10-year bonds fell for a second day even as the
 European Central Bank  was said to buy the securities, according
to two people with knowledge of the transactions who declined to
be identified because the transactions are confidential. Yields
rose four basis points to 5.90 percent.  “The financial markets remain very jittery,” Viola Stork
and Ulrich Wortberg, analysts at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-
Thueringen in  Frankfurt , wrote in a client note today. Swings in
bund yields this week show “just how fast the mood can turn
around,” they wrote.  Yields on 10-year French debt increased four basis points
to 3.18 percent, widening the spread or yield difference over
similar maturity bunds to as much as 115 basis points, the most
since 1992.  France ’s Aaa credit rating is under pressure because the
global financial and economic crisis has made its debt measures
the weakest among its top-rated peers, Moody’s Investors Service
said Oct. 17. The company said its statement was a market update
and not a rating action.  Greek Bonds  Greek notes fell for a fourth day, with the two-year yield
rising 13 basis points to 76.58 percent, leaving the price at
38.70. The yield on the benchmark 6.25 percent bonds due in June
2020 climbed two basis points to 24.30 percent.  Holders of Greek bonds will probably have to take a 60
percent loss as “there’s no way” for the country not to
default, said Steven Cochrane, head of economic research at
Moody’s Analytics Inc.  “Our assumption that we have fed into our forecast for the
European economy is that bondholders of Greek debt will be
taking a haircut of about 60 percent,” Cochrane said today at
an event in Limassol, Cyprus.  German bonds have returned 7.1 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. French debt gained 3.1 percent,
and Treasuries rose 8 percent and Italian bonds lost 4 percent,.  Volatility on Austrian sovereign debt was the highest among
euro-area markets today, according to measures of 10-year bonds,
two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps. The
yield change in the nation’s 10-year bonds was 0.9 times the 90-
day average, the Bloomberg gauge showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  