-- 
German Stocks Rise on Optimism Europe Will Expand Rescue Fund

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-10-19T16:10:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/german-stocks-rise-on-optimism-europe-rescue-fund-to-be-expanded.html
German stocks rose for a second day,
led by banks, following conflicting reports that  Europe ’s
biggest economies have reached a deal to enhance a rescue fund
for the region.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  gained more than 4
percent as the Guardian reported Germany and France have agreed
to boost the European Financial Stability Facility to 2 trillion
euros ($2.8 trillion) from 440 billion euros. Software AG jumped
12 percent after reiterating its full-year sales target.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  increased 0.6 percent to 5,913.53
at the close in Frankfurt. The gauge climbed in the last three
weeks as policy makers said they were working on a plan to end
the sovereign debt crisis. Even so, the DAX has tumbled 21
percent from this year’s high on May 2. The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX) 
added 0.5 percent today.  “The financial industry is in the positive and
underpinning gains in the DAX on the back of hopes that policy
makers will eventually help the whole market,” said Stefan Chmielewski, a trader at Lang & Schwarz Wertpapierhandelsbank AG
in Dusseldorf.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in the U.S. yesterday
extended gains in the last hour of trading, rallying to the
highest level since Aug. 3, following the Guardian report.  Conflicting Reports  France and Germany are still working on how to increase the
effective power of the rescue fund, a person with direct
knowledge of the talks told Bloomberg News.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers
in Berlin that the EFSF’s firepower may be increased to a
maximum of 1 trillion euros through an insurance model,
Financial Times Deutschland said.  A U.S. Commerce Department report showed that housing
starts in the world’s largest economy increased more than
forecast in September.  Builders began work on 658,000 houses at an annual rate, up
15 percent from August and the most since April 2010, data
showed. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called
for a 590,000 pace. Multifamily home starts surged to the
highest since October 2008.  Banks Rally  Financial shares led the gains. Deutsche Bank, the nation’s
largest bank, rose 4.2 percent to 27.53 euros. Smaller rival
Commerzbank gained 4.7 percent to 1.63 euros. Allianz SE,
Europe’s largest insurer, climbed 4.3 percent to 79.26 euros.
 Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, added 1.4 percent to
97.15 euros.  Software AG (SOW)  surged 12 percent to 30.45 euros. Germany’s
second-largest maker of  business software  confirmed its full-
year sales target after third-quarter earnings rose. Operating
profit advanced to as much as 73 million euros from 69.1 million
euros a year earlier, the company said in a statement.  Suess MicroTec AG, a maker of semiconductor equipment,
jumped 9 percent to 7.17 euros. The company, along with a
partner, won an order for the newest generation of its products
from an unidentified integrated device maker, Suess said.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM) , Germany’s biggest private
broadcaster, rose 1.1 percent to 14.64 euros. The company was
rated “buy” in new coverage at Jefferies Group Inc., which
estimated the shares may reach 17 euros.  Hochtief AG (HOT)  rallied 3.7 percent to 52.98 euros after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation for the
construction company to “conviction buy” from “neutral.”  “Despite a history of volatile construction margins, new
management is addressing profitability,” Goldman wrote in a
report to investors. The “influence” of majority stakeholder
Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA of Spain “could lead
to improvement in best practice and enhanced bidding
opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  