-- 
German Government Bond Auction Receives Fewer Bids Than Securities on Sale

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-10-19T11:29:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/german-bond-sale-gets-fewer-bids-than-securities-on-offer-1-.html
Germany  received fewer bids than the
maximum amount of securities offered at an auction of 10-year
bonds as investors judged yields were too low amid optimism
 Europe  is making progress to resolve its sovereign debt crisis.  The country got bids for 4.55 billion euros ($6.3 billion)
at its offering of as much as 5 billion euros of 2.25 percent
debt, the Bundesbank said today in a statement. Germany sold
4.075 billion euros at an average yield of 2.09 percent, up from
a Sept. 21 sale at 1.80 percent, a record low. Bunds fell today
as stocks gained amid demand for higher-yielding assets.  “German paper is very expensive,” Annalisa Piazza, a
fixed-income strategist at broker Newedge Group in  London , said
in a telephone interview. “Any news that something is moving in
terms of the development of the European crisis or any better-
than-expected data was going to hit the long end of the curve.”  The auction today mirrors “increased nervousness,” while
demand “endures in a volatile market,” a statement from
Germany’s Federal Finance Agency said.  Germany’s benchmark 10-year yield dropped to a record low
1.636 percent on Sept. 23 amid investor concern that European
leaders were struggling to resolve the debt crisis, which forced
 Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland to seek outside aid and threatened
to infect larger economies such as Italy and Spain.  The yield on the bund climbed nine basis points to 2.10
percent at 12:23 p.m. London time, rising to as high as 2.13
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  