-- 
Ghana Central Bank Keeps Key Rate at 12.5% After Cedi Falls

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-10-19T12:56:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/ghana-central-bank-keeps-interest-rate-at-12-5-after-cedi-falls.html
Ghana’s  central bank left its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a second consecutive
meeting as a weaker currency offset lower food prices in
 Africa ’s newest oil producer.  The key lending rate was held at 12.5 percent, Governor
Kwesi Amissah-Arthur told reporters today in the capital, Accra.
That was in line with the forecasts of all nine economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Inflation, which was unchanged at 8.4 percent for a third
consecutive month in September, may accelerate after the cedi
slumped 7.2 percent against the dollar since Aug. 1, boosting
import costs. Price pressures are also rising after the
government increased water and electricity costs and lifted
wages for civil servants by 20 percent in August.  “We are worried about the depreciation of the currency,”
the governor said. “The upside risks in the outlook are wage
pressures, payment arrears and the weakness of the cedi.”  The cedi fell as much as 0.4 percent to 1.6360 against the
dollar after the rate decision and was trading at 1.6330 at
12:22 p.m. in Accra.  “While inflation will remain well-behaved for now, a key
risk to watch going forward is the impact of recent cedi
depreciation on the price level,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa
economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in
an e-mail today. “An upward rate adjustment may well be needed
in the first quarter.”  Ghana became Africa’s newest oil exporter in December, when
production started at the offshore Jubilee field, which is
operated by U.K.-based Tullow Oil Plc. Ghana is the world’s
second-largest cocoa producer after  Ivory Coast  and the
continent’s No. 2 gold producer after  South Africa .  Gold exports for the nine months through Sept. 30 was $3.7
billion, while cocoa reached $1.7 billion, the central bank said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  