-- 
Ghana Cedi Gains for 3rd Day as Bank Talks of Currency Auctions

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-10-19T16:24:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/ghana-cedi-gains-for-3rd-day-as-bank-talks-of-currency-auctions.html
Ghana ’s cedi gained for a third day
as the central said it is considering regular dollar auctions as
part of measures to support the currency of the world’s second-
biggest cocoa producer.  The cedi appreciated as much as 0.3 percent to 1.6240 per
dollar and was unchanged from yesterday’s close at 1.6295 by
4:11 p.m. in Accra, the capital, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It has weakened 8.8 percent against the U.S. currency
this year.  The  Bank of Ghana  is looking at “options” including
auctions, selling dollars directly to currency traders and the
use of “moral suasion” to compel interbank traders to quote
competitive rates, Adams Nyinaku, head of treasury, said in an
interview in Accra today. Traders “will be cautious of the rate
they tender in, else the dollars will go to somebody else,” he
said.  The bank will look to earnings from gold, cocoa and oil,
the country’s three main exports, to build foreign reserves if
it decides on the regular currency sales. “We can also buy
foreign loans received by the government, such as the $3 billion
loan being sourced from  China Development Bank ,” Nyinaku said.  The West Africa nation’s gold exports for the nine months
through Sept. 30 were worth $3.7 billion, cocoa totaled $1.7
billion and oil exports were $1.9 billion, the central bank said
today. Gross international reserves stood at $5.3 billion as of
Oct. 13, enough to cover 3.8 months of imports, central bank
Governor Kwesi Amissah-Arthur said today.  The plan “should be beneficial for the market in that it
creates more transparency in how much they sell and what the
actual demand in the market is,” Lourens Harmse, a currency
trader at Absa Capital Ltd., said in an e-mailed comment today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 