-- 
Gillard Should Keep Out of Qantas, BHP Billiton Strikes, Unions Chief Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-10-20T01:40:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/gillard-should-keep-out-of-qantas-bhp-strikes-union-chief-says.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government should keep out of disputes about wages and
job security that have disrupted  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  flights and
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  mining, the nation’s top union leader said.  “I think it would be ill-advised for anyone to
intervene,” Ged Kearney, president of the Australian Council of
Trade Unions, the country’s largest labor federation, said in an
Oct. 18 telephone interview. “At some stage, there has to be a
negotiated outcome.”  The group, which helped the Labor government win power in
2007, plans to focus on job security over the next two to five
years as companies consider moving positions overseas to pare
costs, Kearney said. The number of Australian working days lost
in industrial disputes tripled in the quarter ended June as
wages trailed China-stoked commodity prices and corporate
profits.  “There is a feeling among workers, asking, ‘Why can’t we
participate in this boom? Why can’t we have a bigger share?’”
said Rick Kuhn, a political analyst at the  Australian National
University  in Canberra. “The benefits of the boom, mainly in
resources, is being garnered by a thin layer of society.”  Qantas, Australia’s biggest carrier, has grounded seven
aircraft and cut flights because of industrial action by three
unions representing long-haul pilots, baggage handlers and
engineers. About 60,000 passengers have been affected because of
stoppages, according to the Sydney-based airline.  Gillard Ratings  Gillard should act before the dispute becomes
“cataclysmic” for the local  tourism industry , said  David Clarke , chairman of  Webjet Ltd. (WEB) , the nation’s biggest online
flight-reservation company. Clarke said he has written to the
prime minister advocating intervention.  “This is really a tipping point and the government must do
something,” he said by telephone today. “It’s no longer a
question of who is right or wrong.”  Gillard, who has the nation’s lowest approval rating for a
premier in 18 years, has said the government could use  Fair Work
Act  provisions in the Qantas dispute. The legislation, which
governs industrial relations, allows the government to intervene
in strikes on grounds of “public interest.”  “I am concerned about this dispute,” Gillard told radio
station 3AW in  Melbourne  today. “Parties should come together
and get this resolved in the interests of Qantas, in the
interests of people who work for Qantas, in the interests of the
traveling public.”  BHP Strikes  At  BHP Billiton , about 3,500 coal miners have held periodic
strikes since June as they seek higher wages and improved
conditions.  Asciano Ltd. (AIO) , Australia’s biggest port cargo
handler, and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  have also been hit by stoppages
this year.  The number of working days lost per 1,000 employees rose to
6.5 in the three months ended June 30, from 2 the preceding
quarter, according to Australian Bureau of Statistics  data . That
was the highest level since the 9.1 lost days for the second
quarter of 2008. It trails the 18.4 recorded in April-June 2004
and the 52.2 for the second quarter of 1996.  Qantas unions have stepped up action since the company
announced plans in August to cut 1,000 jobs, reduce routes and
establish new ventures in  Southeast Asia  and  Japan . The move
reflects a wider union focus on keeping jobs in  Australia ,
Kearney said.  ’Disappearing’ Jobs  “There is this added concern about jobs disappearing
offshore,” she said. “What the unions are arguing is, you are
a profitable business overall, and there is no reason we can’t
talk about strategies.”  Earnings at Qantas more than doubled to A$250 million ($255
million) in the year ended June 30. Melbourne-based BHP
Billiton’s net income rose 86 percent to $23.6 billion in the
same period. Australian average wages in the quarter ended May
climbed 3.9 percent from a year earlier, according to government
 data .  Qantas pilots want to be under the same employment
conditions whether they fly for the Qantas-branded unit or
budget arm Jetstar, while baggage-handlers are seeking to stem
the use of contract labor. Engineers want to ensure maintenance
on new aircraft such as Airbus SAS A380s and  Boeing Co. (BA)  787s is
done in Australia, to help maintain jobs as older planes like
767s are retired.  ‘Unacceptable’ Demands  “Qantas remains committed to reaching an agreement with
its licensed aircraft maintenance engineers and is encouraging
the union to agree to the offer which has been on the table
since March,” it said in an e-mailed statement today.  Qantas Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce, whose company
deals with 15 unions, said this week that “unacceptable”
demands by labor groups were putting the future of the carrier
at risk.  The industrial action and plane groundings may have cut
Qantas’s pretax earnings by about A$15 million in the fiscal
year started July 1,  Scott Carroll , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase
& Co., said in an Oct. 18 report. Action by engineers in 2008
reduced earnings by about A$130 million, he wrote.  The airline is committed to reaching an agreement, and the
“best way to provide  job security  is to have a successful
business,” it said. Joyce wasn’t available for comment, Luke
Enright, a Qantas spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  With Gillard trailing opposition leader  Tony Abbott  in
polls, Kearney said unions can work with whoever is in power as
long as worker rights are protected. That would include not
moving back toward individual work contracts and away from group
agreements, she said.  Former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s Workchoices
legislation, which boosted the use of individual deals, was a
key topic in the 2007 election, which he lost to Labor. The laws
were repealed in July 2009 with the introduction of the Fair
Work Act.  “We will draw a line in the sand around any reversal
towards the Workchoices style of industrial relations,” Kearney
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  