-- 
Global Recession Likely If Euro Crisis Stays, Nobel Winner Mortensen Says

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-10-19T09:52:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/global-recession-likely-if-euro-crisis-stays-nobel-winner-mortensen-says.html
A global recession is likely if the
European debt crisis isn’t resolved within a year, the Nobel
Prize-winning economist  Dale Mortensen  said.  “If the Europeans can’t solve the problem within a year,
we are likely to have another worldwide recession,” Mortensen
said at a press briefing in Taipei today. “So it’s very
important for all of us to resolve that problem in the short
term.”  Spain’s credit rating was yesterday cut for the third time
in 13 months by Moody’s Investors Service as  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis threatens to engulf the nation. German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said yesterday that an Oct. 23 European Union
summit will mark an “important step,” though not the final one
in solving the debt crisis.  “In the long term, Europe realizes that they need to
change their fiscal policies,” said Mortensen, 72, who shared
the 2010  Nobel Prize  for Economic Sciences for his research into
unemployment and the difficulty of matching job supply to
demand. “The individual country in the Euro zone got to give up
some of their sovereign authority to maintain a stable euro.”  Mortensen is a professor at  Northwestern University  in
Evanston, Illinois. He shared the Nobel with  Christopher Pissarides  of the London School of Economics and  Peter Diamond 
of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  The euro today advanced for a second day versus the dollar
as reports that France and Germany are nearing a deal to boost
the size of Europe’s rescue fund to contain the debt crisis
spurred demand for the region’s assets.  Euro Strengthens  The shared currency strengthened against all except two of
its 16 major peers as the Guardian newspaper reported the two
nations support increasing the 440-billion euro ($607 billion)
European Financial Stability Facility to 2 trillion euros before
this weekend’s summit. The euro gained 0.4 percent to $1.3802 at
9:31 a.m. London time, after rising 0.1 percent yesterday.  Meanwhile, Asian officials from  China  to Indonesia have
boosted fiscal measures or eased borrowing costs as they seek to
shield expansion.  The Bank of Thailand today kept its benchmark one-day bond
repurchase rate at 3.5 percent, ending its longest series of
increases since 2006, as the nation’s worst floods in five
decades and a weakening global economy crimped growth.  Asia’s growth has slowed since the second quarter of 2011,
the  International Monetary Fund  said last week, cutting its
forecast for this year’s expansion to 6.3 percent from an April
estimate of 6.8 percent. Inflationary pressures across the
region are still “elevated” and financial conditions remain
accommodative in most of Asia, the IMF said.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index of stocks slumped 16.2 percent
last quarter, the biggest drop since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  