-- 
Goldman Sachs Sells 50-Year Bonds

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 
2011-10-19T22:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/goldman-sachs-plans-250-million-sale-of-50-year-unsecured-debt.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which
yesterday reported its second quarterly loss in 12 years, sold
$500 million of 50-year unsecured bonds in a transaction aimed
at individual investors.  Goldman Sachs sold the debt in increments of $25 at a yield
of 6.5 percent after doubling the size of the offering,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The New York-based firm
has the option to redeem the bonds at par after five years,
according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The transaction was the second Goldman Sachs has targeted
at individual investors, allowing the firm to diversify its
sources of capital while locking in “attractive” borrowing
costs, said James Leonard, a credit analyst at Morningstar Inc.
in  Chicago . Goldman Sachs issued $1.3 billion of 6.125 percent
notes with a similar structure a year ago, Bloomberg data show.  “It’s a great deal for Goldman,” Leonard said in a
telephone interview. “They’re sitting in a win-win situation,
because if  interest rates  stay low they can call them, but if
rates go up they’ve got 50 years of funding.”  Leonard said he wouldn’t recommend individual investors buy
the notes because of the difficulty of valuing Goldman Sachs’s
option to redeem them after 2016.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman at Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment.  Goldman Sachs’s third-quarter loss of $393 million, or 84
cents per share, compared with a profit of $1.9 billion, or
$2.98, a year earlier, the company said yesterday in a
statement.  Credit Swaps Fall  The cost to protect Goldman Sachs’s debt for five years
using credit-default swaps fell 24 basis points to 321 basis
points, according to London-based data provider CMA. It reached
410 basis points on Oct. 4, the highest since October 2008.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  ‘Confused and Disappointed’  David Viniar, Goldman Sachs’s chief financial officer, told
analysts on a conference call yesterday that a widening of the
firm’s credit spreads over the last six weeks has had a
“minimal” impact on its business. He said the firm, which
yesterday reported its second quarterly loss in 12 years as a
public company, has about $5 billion of debt maturing by year
end and “we’ll decide as the quarter goes on whether we want to
replace it or we want to wait for a better time.”  Goldman Sachs executives have been “confused and
disappointed” by the rising prices on the firm’s credit-default
swaps, Viniar said, which investors use to hedge against losses
on the company’s debt or to speculate on its creditworthiness.  “Given how strong our capital is, our liquidity is, the
maturity of our funding, the balance sheet, we kind of scratch
our heads a little bit,” Viniar said. “But it really hasn’t
affected anything other than our emotions. We don’t like seeing
it but it hasn’t had a big effect.”  Goldman Sachs fell 1.5 percent to $100.79 in  New York  after
reaching $102.25 yesterday, the highest since Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 