-- 
Gold Drops for a Third Day as Report on European Rescue Fund Curbs Demand

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-10-19T11:56:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/gold-advances-as-spain-rating-cut-by-moody-s-spurs-demand-for-haven-assets.html
Gold may fall for a third day in New
York as reports that France and Germany are nearing an accord to
boost the size of Europe’s rescue fund curbs demand for the
metal as a protection of wealth.  The euro gained against the dollar as the Guardian
newspaper reported the two nations support increasing the size
of the 440 billion-euro ($607 billion) European Financial
Stability Facility to 2 trillion euros ahead of a summit this
weekend. European equities advanced.  “The euro is up on the back of that, and it could be
responsible for this move,” Afshin Nabavi, a senior vice
president at bullion refiner MKS Finance SA in Geneva, said
today by phone, referring to the rescue-fund report. Still, “I
don’t think that safe-haven demand is gone,” and physical
purchases will support prices, he said.  Gold for December delivery fell 0.1 percent to $1,650.50 an
ounce by 7:54 a.m. on the Comex in New York. Immediate-delivery
gold was 0.5 percent lower at $1,649.60 in London.  Bullion is in the 11th year of a bull market and futures
reached a record $1,923.70 an ounce on Sept. 6 as investors
sought to diversify away from equities and some currencies. The
metal is up 16 percent this year.  EU Meeting  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told lawmakers
in Berlin that the firepower of the European Financial Stability
Facility may be increased to a maximum of 1 trillion euros
through an insurance model, Financial Times Deutschland
reported, without saying where it obtained the information.  Germany and France also support recapitalization of
European banks, the Guardian reported. A spokesman for German
Chancellor Angela Merkel declined to comment. Merkel said
yesterday the European Union summit will mark an important step,
though not the final one, in solving the region’s debt crisis.  Spain’s credit rating was cut yesterday for the third time
in 13 months by Moody’s Investors Service as the crisis
threatens to engulf the nation, which has the highest jobless
rate in the 27-nation EU.  “The fundamentals that support gold’s status as a safe
haven have not changed,” Julian Jessop, chief global economist
at Capital Economics Ltd., wrote in a report. “Gold’s value
does not depend on the creditworthiness of any government or
financial institution. We continue to expect the price of gold
to top $2,000 as sovereign-debt worries continue to build.”  Silver for December delivery fell 0.2 percent to $31.775 an
ounce. Palladium for December delivery was down 0.2 percent at
$618.50 an ounce. Platinum for January delivery declined 0.6
percent to $1,530.90 an ounce.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  