-- 
Google Turns to Face Detection With Samsung to Take On Apple Speech Parser

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-10-19T09:09:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/google-turns-to-face-detection-to-take-on-apple-iphone-s-speech-technology.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Samsung Electronics
Co. unveiled their new mobile-phone software, pitching facial
recognition programs that enhance security and photo sorting to
challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s record-breaking iPhone.  The Samsung Galaxy Nexus runs  Ice Cream Sandwich , the
latest version of Google’s Android software, Matias Duarte,
Google’s senior director, told reporters in Hong Kong today.
Samsung will start sales next month. No price was disclosed.  The Samsung handset is Google’s latest salvo in the battle
to control the $207 billion mobile-phone market. Apple’s iPhone
4S sold a record more than 4 million units in three days last
week, helped by the addition of voice-recognition features in
the company’s iOS software.  “In terms of technology and functionality, it’s hard to
find a big difference between Android and iOS anymore,” said
Kang Yoon Hum, an analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co. in
 Seoul . “They are neck-and-neck.”  Google and Apple are racing to upgrade their technology to
lure users of smartphones.  Mountain View , California-based
Google controlled 43.4 percent of that market in the second
quarter, while Apple’s iPhone had an 18.2 percent share.  In Ice Cream Sandwich, the face detection technology is
being introduced as a safety feature. Still, that “opens up a
lot of possibilities,” said Wouter De Meulemeester, a director
at I.R.I.S., a Belgian company that provides such technology.
Applications such as photo-sorting can be developed, he said
after attending the event.  Demo Fails  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  unveiled the iPhone
4S earlier this month featuring a new camera and a faster
processor. The device is capable of detecting up to  10 faces 
while taking a photograph, according to Cupertino, California--
based Apple’s website. The phone features the Siri voice
assistant that marks calendars and sends messages using audio.  Matias Duarte, a senior director at Google, required at
least two attempts to get access to his Galaxy Nexus phone while
demonstrating the device on stage today, as the face-recognition
technology initially failed to detect him. He showed off the
voice-recognition feature of Ice Cream Sandwich by dictating
instructions in English, including punctuation marks and smiley
symbols.  He told the phone “I am a little busy now, let’s catch up
later.”  Android Beam  Other features of Ice Cream Sandwich include Android Beam,
which lets users quickly share web pages, apps and YouTube
videos, improved multi-tasking, and an upgraded voice technology
that converts dictation into text.  “People initially thought Siri was just talk-to-type,”
said Wang Wanli, an analyst at RBS Asia Ltd. in Taipei. “Yet,
we found it’s much more than that and has personality. Google
would also want to have some personality in Android, and if this
update lacks it, then they may want to upgrade it as soon as
possible.”  Samsung, leading the Android platform in the fight with
Apple, introduced the Galaxy Nexus phone fitted with a 4.65 inch
display, a 1.2 gigahertz processor and a 5 megapixel camera,
according to today’s statement. Apple’s latest iPhone has a 3.5-
inch display, measured diagonally, and an  8-megapixel  camera,
according to the company’s website.  “The new features like facial recognition are improvements
and will help attract more users,” said Richard Ko, who rates
Google partner  HTC Corp. (2498)  “neutral” at KGI Securities Co. in
Taipei.  Ice Cream Sandwich, an updated version of Google’s Android
operating system, was designed for both phones and tablets.
That’s a break from the past, where different devices ran on
separate software, and it may encourage developers to write more
applications for the platform.  The Android Market has more than 300,000 apps, according to
today’s statement. Earlier this month, Apple said there were
more than 500,000 applications in its  App Store .  “Ice Cream Sandwich could provide the critical push in the
race to catch Apple,” said  Mark Newman , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co., who is based in Hong Kong. “Apple’s
software is still on the cutting edge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  