-- 
Samsung to Sell Google Phone With Facial Recognition in Challenge to Apple

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-10-19T04:42:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/google-samsung-to-offer-phone-with-ice-cream-sandwich-software.html
Samsung Electronics Co. will begin
selling the first mobile phone run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s new
operating system next month, counting on facial-recognition
security to help challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  The Samsung Galaxy Nexus, featuring the  Ice Cream Sandwich 
software, also has ‘talk-to-type’ technology, image-editing
tools, off-line search for e-mails and support for mobile
payments, according to a statement handed to reporters in Hong
Kong today. No price was given.  Google jointly developed the phone with Samsung as Chief
Executive Officer Larry Page pushes to increase the  Mountain
View , California-based company’s 43.4 percent share of the
smartphone market. The introduction of the Galaxy Nexus comes
less than week after Apple sold more than 4 million units of its
latest iPhone in three days, cementing the model’s position as
the world’s bestselling smartphone.  “The new features like facial recognition are improvements
and will help attract more users,” said Richard Ko, who rates
Google partner  HTC Corp. (2498)  “neutral” at KGI Securities Co. in
Taipei.  The Samsung phone, which will go on sale in the U.S.,
 Europe  and  Asia  next month, is fitted with a 4.65 inch display,
a 1.2 gigahertz processor and a 5 megapixel camera. Apple’s
latest iPhone has a 3.5-inch display, measured diagonally, and
an  8-megapixel  camera, according to the company’s website.  ‘Face Unlock’  The Samsung phone’s ‘Face Unlock’ facility uses facial
recognition to prevent unregistered people from using it,
according to the statement.  Engineers from Google and Samsung worked in the same
building on the Galaxy Nexus phone,  Andy Rubin , senior vice-
president of Google’s mobile division, said in Hong Kong.  “We are one big team,” he said.  Unveiling the software with Samsung, the biggest seller of
Android phones, should reassure partners that Google won’t favor
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. over other handset makers, said
Song Myung Sup, a Seoul-based analyst at HI Investment &
Securities. Google bought Motorola in August for $12.5 billion.  Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  said earlier this month that
the company “won’t do anything with Motorola, or anybody else
by the way, that would screw up the dynamics of that industry.”  Catching Apple  Ice Cream Sandwich, an updated version of Google’s Android
operating system, will work on both phones and tablets. That’s a
break from the past, where different devices ran on separate
software, and it may encourage developers to write more
applications for the platform.  The Android Market has more than 300,000 apps, according to
today’s statement. Earlier this month, Apple said there was more
than 500,000 applications in its App Store.  “Ice Cream Sandwich could provide the critical push in the
race to catch Apple,” said  Mark Newman , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co., who is based in  Hong Kong . “Apple’s
software is still on the cutting edge.”  Apple’s new iPhone was unveiled earlier this month with
Siri technology, which lets users ask for weather updates, make
calendar appointments or send messages without tapping on the
keyboard. The iPhone is the company’s best-selling product.  The latest Android incarnation also offers easier
multitasking and a new People app, which helps check status
updates from Google+ and other social networks.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung’s shares fell 0.6 percent
to 878,000 won as of 12:23 p.m. in  Seoul . HTC, Asia’s second-
largest smartphone maker, fell 2.3 percent to NT$691 at 11:50
a.m. in Taipei trading.  Siri  Android controlled 43.4 percent of the global smartphone
market in the second quarter, while Apple’s iOS had an 18.2
percent share, according to researcher Gartner Inc.  Google offers the operating system for free and then makes
money on mobile advertising, which is on pace to reach $2.5
billion on an annual basis, it said earlier this month. Google’s
previous iterations of its software for portable devices had
names such as Honeycomb, Gingerbread and Froyo.  For tablets, Apple’s iOS dominated with 61.3 percent market
share in the second quarter, according to research company
 Strategy Analytics . Android accounted for 30.1 percent of the
tablet market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  