-- 
NJ Transit Starts Tap-And-Pay Smartphone Option With Google

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-10-19T14:59:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/google-partners-with-nj-transit-buses-and-trains-for-mobile-payments.html
New Jersey  Transit began letting
some commuters pay for fares using smartphone sensors set up by
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  at locations including  New York ’s Penn Station.  The public-transit system is the first to partner with the
company on its Google Wallet “tap-and-pay” system, which gives
businesses access to credit-card information when a customer
waves their phone over a sensor to make a purchase. The near-
field communication technology is in use at retailers The
Container Store, Foot Locker and Macy’s, according to Google.  New Jersey Transit, the third-largest U.S. transit system
with more than 895,000 weekday trips on bus and rail in New
Jersey, New York and Philadelphia, will help Google widen its
customer base, the company said in a statement today. Google,
the largest Internet-search company, gets most of its revenue
from selling advertising on its websites and through software
such as its Android operating system for mobile devices.  “Transit is the fastest way to accelerate adoption and
reach usage density in major urban centers by habituating the
behavior of tapping and paying with phones,” Stephanie Tilenius, vice president of commerce at Mountain View,
California-based Google, said in the statement.  The service is only available on  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s
Android-based Nexus S 4G phone and users must charge items to
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  MasterCard credit cards. Google said it’s
expanding to other Android phones and is teaming up with  Visa
Inc. (V) ,  Discover Financial Services (DFS)  and American Express Co. to
expand to other cards.  New York City   New York’s Metropolitan Transit Authority, which carries
8.5 million riders a day, is working on a contactless pay
system, and piloted one with cards linked to bank accounts in
2010, said Kevin Ortiz, a spokesman. The biggest U.S. transit
agency will request proposals for the design and architecture of
the program soon, with a goal of completion by 2015, he said.  Transit systems have more incentive to partner with mobile-
payment providers than retailers do, said David True, a payments
consultant in New York for MCAWorks. Tap-and-pay NFC technology
has the potential to reduce ticketing costs if enough people
adopt it, whereas in retail, merchants have to spend on hardware
without much benefit.  “If you look in Japan and Hong Kong, places where NFC is
widely used, it’s in transit,” he said. “Google wants to get
people used to using and paying with their phone, and transit
should be a more willing and able participant.”  New Jersey Transit  didn’t pay anything in the partnership,
according to the statement. Google Wallet is available at New
Jersey Transit’s New York’s Penn Station ticket-vending
machines, at Newark Liberty International Airport rail station,
and on buses 6, 43, 80, 81, 87, 120, and some on the 126 line.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  