-- 
Great-Grandmother Becomes Object of Dispute in Ohio Union Referendum Fight

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-10-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/great-grandmother-is-object-of-dispute-in-ohio-s-union-fight.html
Before the fight over  Ohio ’s
restrictions on state workers’ collective bargaining, 78-year-
old Marlene Quinn was never involved in politics -- just the
Girl Scouts and PTA.  Now each side contesting a Nov. 8 referendum on the law has
produced commercials featuring Quinn, a Cincinnati mother of
three, grandmother of nine and great-grandmother of 23 with No.
24 on the way.  Quinn initially appeared in an  ad  for  We Are Ohio , the
coalition seeking to repeal the measure. She said firefighters
who saved her son and 3-year-old great-granddaughter in November
wouldn’t be able to negotiate for safe staffing levels. Then,
the group backing the law ran an  ad  with the same footage to
argue that if governments are unable to control costs, the
emergency workers would be fired anyway.  “They stole my words and used me, really, for their
benefit,” Quinn said in a telephone interview. “They think I’m
a little old lady that can’t do or say anything. Wrong. They are
so wrong.”  Quinn is demanding an apology, while  Building a Better
Ohio , the group supporting the law, said it did nothing wrong.
Each campaign is using the controversy to raise money and sway
voters on the so-called Issue 2, which both sides say is the
nation’s most important referendum this year.  Governors Versus Unions  In March, Governor  John Kasich  signed the law that
restricts bargaining for almost 360,000 employees to wages,
hours and working conditions and requires them to pay at least
15 percent of their health-care insurance premiums and 10
percent toward pensions. The law, similar to one backed by
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  that triggered weeks of protests
in Madison, is on hold pending the Nov. 8 vote.  Quinn, who turns 79 on Oct. 23, said she never imagined she
would become embroiled in such a fight. A Cincinnati native, she
is retired after jobs that included office work at  3M Co. (MMM) ,
assembly for NuTone Inc. and part-time security at a nursing
home’s front desk. None was unionized, she said.  On the day of the fire, she arrived home to learn that her
son, Jann, and great-granddaughter No. 15, Zoey, were
hospitalized. They were unconscious and “snatched from death,”
Paul Weber, a Cincinnati district fire chief who was there, said
in a telephone interview.  “If it wasn’t for God and our fighters, they wouldn’t be
with me today,” Quinn said.  Limp Kid  About 25 firefighters attended Zoey’s fourth birthday party
in July, Quinn said. When they had to leave before getting cake,
Quinn had one sent to the firehouse, she said.  When We Are Ohio approached her about a commercial, she was
eager, Quinn said. In the ad, which shows a photo of a limp Zoey
being carried down a ladder by a firefighter, Quinn says the law
“makes it illegal to negotiate for enough firefighters to do
their job” and “fewer fighters can mean the difference between
life or death.”  The subsequent ad from Building a Better Ohio uses some of
the same footage of Quinn and says, “She’s right.”  “Without Issue 2, communities will need to lay off hard-
working firefighters to pay for the excessive benefits of other
government employees,” the ad says. “Issue 2 protects our
communities from losing those who protect us.”  Appropriating an Image  Whether the First Amendment protects the re-use of the
footage isn’t clear, said Daniel P. Tokaji, a law professor at
 Ohio State University  and associate director of the university’s
Election Law @ Moritz center.  “I don’t think this campaign ad is false,” Tokaji said in
a telephone interview. “The real question is whether it’s
misleading, and that’s a question on which I think reasonable
minds might differ.”  Quinn and We Are Ohio said Building a Better Ohio used
Quinn’s words without permission and twisted them to make it
appear that she supported the law. The campaign’s attorney sent
a letter to television stations demanding they pull the ad,
calling it “false, misleading and deceptive.”  “They made me look like a goof,” Quinn said. “I’m saying
‘No,’ and then they got me on this thing that says, ‘Yes.’ What,
am I senile or something, that I don’t know what I’m talking
about?”  Building Better Ohio had a right to use the footage because
it was in the public domain, and her comments make a key point
in favor of the law, said Jason Mauk, a spokesman.  “She chose to inject herself into the public discourse by
participating in political ad,” Mauk said by phone. “We just
believe that the reforms of Issue 2 are a better solution to her
concerns than the position she’s advocating.”  Going to Bat  Quinn is now appearing in another We Are Ohio ad and at
events including an Oct. 17 debate in  Cleveland . She has
motivated firefighters to work harder on the campaign, said Mark
Sanders, a Cincinnati fire lieutenant and president of the Ohio
Association of Professional Fire Fighters.  “Every firefighter and police officer who saw our
grandmother step up there and go to bat for us has now been
attacked,” Sanders said at a press conference in Columbus last
week.  Quinn said she hopes her experience makes a difference.  “I’m not used to being in the spotlight,” she said. “I
feel kind of funny. People recognize me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  