-- 
Iberiabank to Pay $2.5 Million to Settle Overdraft Suits

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-10-19T22:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/iberiabank-agrees-to-pay-2-5-million-to-settle-overdraft-fee-lawsuits.html
Iberiabank Corp. (IBKC)  agreed to pay
$2.5 million to settle consumer lawsuits accusing the Louisiana
bank of illegally charging excessive overdraft fees, according
to court papers.  Iberiabank officials also will change policies governing
the way debit-card transactions are handled in connection with
overdraft fees, the Lafayette, Louisiana-based bank said in an
Oct. 18 court filing in federal court in Miami. Overdraft suits
filed across the U.S. have been consolidated in that court for
pre-trial proceedings.  Bank customers who are covered by the settlement will
receive their share of the settlement fund “without having to
do anything at all,” lawyers for consumers who sued Iberiabank
over the overdraft policy, said in the court filing.  The settlement comes nine months after  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , the second-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, agreed to pay
$410 million to resolve similar claims over its overdraft
policies. In May, a judge in Miami gave preliminary approval to
the accord.  Daryl Byrd, Iberiabank’s president and chief executive
officer, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the
settlement today. The bank didn’t admit any wrongdoing in the
settlement, according to the court filing.  Consolidated Suits  The settlement, which was initially reached in mediation
talks in May, represents 0.0227 percent of Iberiabank’s
approximately $11 billion in assets, according to the filing.
Bank officials said in July net income fell 41 percent to $5.1
million in the second quarter. They noted that $2.8 million
reserved for the settlement added to the quarter’s costs.  Suits against about 15 banks have been consolidated before
U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King in Miami as part of a
so-called multidistrict litigation. King has been overseeing
pre-trial exchanges of information in the cases since June 2009.  Consumers contend that banks, including Bank of America,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Iberiabank had
policies that allowed them to debit account holders’ funds in a
way that made it more likely they’d incur overdraft fees.  Last year, the  Federal Reserve  imposed rules prohibiting
lenders from automatically charging fees when consumers have
insufficient funds for electronic or debit transactions.  Iberiabank customers alleged in the suits the bank
wrongfully engineered the way it posted debit-card transactions
to maximize the possibility that account holders would incur
overdraft fees.  Iberiabank officials have agreed to change “its
transaction posting practices” to cut down the chances
customers will be hit with the fees, lawyers said in the court
filing.  The case is In re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Florida 
(Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  