-- 
Milan Swap Fees May Not Cover Risk, Depfa Executive Tells Court

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-10-19T15:57:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/milan-swap-fees-may-not-cover-risk-depfa-executive-tells-court.html
Banks that sold swaps to Milan may
lose money on the transactions because the fees charged don’t
cover all the risk assumed, Marco Santarcangelo, a Depfa Bank
Plc banker on trial for fraud, told a Milan court.  The city of Milan isn’t required to post collateral against
a potential loss on its swaps while banks such as Depfa must do
so with their counterparties, Santarcangelo said today. Margins
on the swaps may be insufficient to cover the banks’ cost of
funding, he said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Dublin-
based Depfa are on trial on charges of mis-selling swaps to
Milan, derivatives that adjusted payments on a 1.7 billion-euro
($2.4 billion) bond offering in 2005. Prosecutor Alfredo Robledo
said the banks misled Milan by telling the city it could save
about 55 million euros with the bond sale and a series of swaps.
Robledo says the banks earned 101 million euros in hidden fees.
The banks deny the charges.  Depfa, a unit of Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, charged total
gross margins of about 18 million euros on the 2005 swaps and
subsequent restructurings, Santarcangelo told the court. The
firm’s derivative traders assured Santarcangelo that the fees
were in line with market practice, he said. At the end of the
30-year deal, banks may still record a loss, he said.  Depfa, which retained some of the bonds for its own
investments, had been willing to buy the entire 1.7 billion-euro
offering, said Santarcangelo. The firm was hired as one of four
arrangers that helped sell the bonds to a larger group of
investors. Depfa offered to place the bonds for a commission of
1 basis point, which covered just the costs, because it had been
willing to do the transaction for free because it was seeking a
return on the investment, Santarcangelo said.  As an owner of Milan’s bonds, Depfa’s interests are aligned
with the city’s, he said.  The trial continues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  