-- 
Amylin Gains After Diabetes Drug Wins Approval for New Use

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-10-20T20:09:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/lilly-amylin-s-diabetes-drug-wins-approval-for-expanded-use-1-.html
Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  rose the
most in more than six months after its Byetta drug developed
with  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  won expanded approval for use with the
world’s top-selling insulin to treat  Type 2 diabetes .  Amylin gained 13 percent to $11.55 at 4 p.m., its biggest
climb since April 15. The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared
the injectable medicine, first approved in April 2005, to be
used by patients taking insulin glargine, a long-acting insulin
marketed by French drugmaker Sanofi as Lantus, Amylin and Lilly
said yesterday in a statement.  The move would “make Byetta available to millions of
insulin-using Type 2 diabetes patients in the  United States ,”
Vincent Mihalik, senior vice president of sales and marketing at
Amylin, said in an April earnings call.  Almost 26 million people ages 20 or older in the U.S. have
diabetes, according to the  American Diabetes Association  in
Alexandria, Virginia. At least 90 percent of those have Type 2,
the most common form of the disease during which the body
doesn’t produce enough insulin or cells ignore insulin. Most
Type 2 patients need at least one insulin shot daily.  “This expanded use for Byetta is important for clinical
care, in that it provides a new option for the many patients
with Type 2 diabetes who are not achieving treatment goals,”
John Buse, director of the Diabetes Care Center and chief of the
Division of Endocrinology at the University of North Carolina
School of Medicine in  Chapel Hill , said in the statement
released by the companies.  Drug Sales  Byetta stimulates pancreas cells to produce insulin when
blood sugar is high. It has been approved for patients taking
other diabetes medicines and on its own as a therapy with diet
and exercise.  The drug brought in $559 million for San Diego-based Amylin
last year, almost 85 percent of the company’s revenue, according
to data Bloomberg compiled. The drug accounted for $151 million
in sales for Indianapolis-based Lilly last year.  Sanofi said last week it expects Lantus to generate 2011
sales of 4 billion euros ($5.48 billion.)  Amylin sued Lilly in federal court alleging anticompetitive
activity and breach of a strategic alliance agreement, the
company said in a statement in May. Amylin wants to stop Lilly
from using the same sales force to promote linagliptin, a
product Lilly is developing with German drugmaker Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH to complete with Byetta and a once-weekly version
called Bydureon under review by the FDA.  Linagliptin, sold under the name Tradjenta, was approved in
May by the FDA for sale in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 