-- 
Timah Delays Plan to Resume Indonesia Tin Shipments Until Price Recovers

-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 
2011-10-19T06:32:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/timah-delays-plan-to-resume-indonesia-tin-shipments-until-price-recovers.html
PT Timah, the largest tin exporter,
will delay a plan to resume shipments until prices recover and
as the company continues to negotiate with its contractual
buyers, an executive said.  Timah will uphold an instruction from Bangka Belitung
Governor Eko Maulana Ali and an agreement with other producers
to halt spot overseas sales until prices rebound to $25,000 a
metric ton, Corporate Secretary Abrun Abubakar said today.  “We haven’t agreed with our buyers” Abubakar said by
telephone from Pangkalpinang, Bangka. “We will keep delaying
shipments because we don’t want to sell at a low price.” The
company said on Oct. 13 that it was negotiating with customers
including LG International Corp. and Mitsubishi Corp. to agree
on price of $23,000 so it can restart shipments this week.  Timah joined Indonesian producers in suspending exports on
Oct. 1 in a bid to reverse a rout in prices by choking off
supplies to the global market. Prices have fallen 21 percent
this year on concern that demand may slow if the world economy
reenters recession.  Producers in  Indonesia  will meet Oct. 23 in Bangka to
discuss further measures to support prices, Johan Murod, a
director at PT Bangka Belitung Timah Sejahtera, a group of six
smelters, said yesterday. Bangka Belitung islands are
Indonesia’s main tin producing region.  Producers’ Meeting  “We will discuss what can we do to support prices in the
short and longer term,” Murod said in a mobile-phone text
message today. Timah Sejahtera and other small smelters in
Bangka are committed to maintain the halt until prices gain to
at least $25,000 a ton, a break-even level, he said.  Tin for three-month delivery fell 0.7 percent to $21,200 a
ton at 1:52 p.m. in  Singapore  on the London Metal Exchange. The
contract plunged 17 percent last month, touching a 14-month low
of $17,000. Timah shares gained 1.6 percent to 1,860 rupiah in
Jakarta. The stock has declined 32 percent this year, compared
with a 0.5 percent drop on the benchmark  Jakarta Composite Index. (JCI)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  