-- 
India to Raise West African Crude Imports at China’s Expense

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-10-19T10:33:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/india-to-raise-west-african-crude-oil-imports-at-china-s-expense.html
Indian oil refiners will import the
most West African crude in three months as they make up for a
drop in Chinese purchases to keep Asian demand in November at
49 cargoes, a survey of six traders showed.  Shipments totaling 46.6 million barrels, or 1.55 million
barrels a day, will be exported from Angola,  Nigeria ,  Chad ,
 Equatorial Guinea , the Republic of Congo and the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo, according to the poll and an analysis of
loading programs obtained by Bloomberg News. That compares with
a revised 46.7 million barrels, or 1.51 million barrels a day
for this month.  Chinese refiners will import 25 cargoes, four less than
October, according to the survey. China International United
Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as Unipec, purchased 20
consignments, unchanged from this month.  Indian processors bought 17 shipments, five more than last
months, according to the survey.  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, cut its
purchases to eight cargoes from 11, while  Mangalore Refinery &
Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL)  bought 650,000 barrels of Coco crude from
the Democratic Republic of Congo for loading in the second half
of November, the survey showed.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of the world’s biggest
refining complex, will boost imports to five cargoes from one
this month, including two lots of the new Angolan Pazflor crude,
according to the poll.  Exports to  Asia  from West Africa in October were revised to
49 cargoes from previous 48, after Indian Oil bought a shipment
of Espoir crude from  Ivory Coast , the survey showed.  Nigerian benchmark Qua Iboe blend reached a premium of
$3.33 a barrel to North Sea Dated Brent today, compared with an
average of $3.99 in September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News.  Nigeria plans to export 2.06 million barrels a day of crude
next month and  Angola  will ship 1.84 million barrels, Bloomberg
calculations based on loading programs showed.  The following table shows details of planned Asian imports.
Each cargo ranges from 600,000 barrels to 1 million barrels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  