-- 
India Oil Refiners Seek $2.8B Fuel Subsidy

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-10-19T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/india-s-fragile-oil-refiners-seek-2-8-billion-as-subsidy-1-.html
India ’s oil ministry is seeking 140
billion rupees ($2.8 billion) as a quarterly subsidy for state-
run refiners, which sell fuels below cost to help curb inflation
in  Asia ’s second-fastest growing major economy.  The oil ministry has sought the amount for the three months
ended Sept. 30 from the finance ministry after being promised
150 billion rupees for the preceding three months, Oil Secretary
G.C. Chaturvedi told reporters in  New Delhi  yesterday. The
refiners’ revenue losses from fuel sales for the two quarters
together is 649 billion rupees, he said.  “The financial condition of the companies is fairly
fragile and I’m worried about their health,” Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy told reporters yesterday. “We’re pressing the
 finance ministry  for substantial compensation.”  India’s Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said yesterday it
will be a “challenge” to cut the fiscal deficit to the lowest
in four years and inflationary pressures continue. Prices in
India have risen the second-fastest among the Group of 20
nations behind Argentina. Indian Oil Corp., Bharat Petroleum
Corp. and Hindustan Petroleum Corp. are borrowing more because
the government is yet to compensate them for diesel, kerosene
and cooking gas sales since April.  Indian Oil reported a loss of 37.2 billion rupees in the
three months ended June 30, its biggest since the quarter ended
Sept. 30, 2008. Bharat Petroleum had a 25.6 billion-rupee loss
and Hindustan Petroleum 30.8 billion rupees.  ‘Coming to a Head’  Indian Oil has about 770 billion rupees of debt and the
company has sought shareholders’ permission to raise its
borrowing limit to 1.1 trillion rupees from the current 800
billion rupees, Chairman R.S. Butola said yesterday.  “Everything seems to be coming to a head,” Butola said.
“Oil prices continue to stay high, the rupee’s dropping and
 interest rates  are high.”  Brent crude  has increased 17 percent in London trading this
year. India’s oil purchases are benchmarked to Brent.  The rupee has climbed 11 percent against the dollar since
Aug. 1, increasing the cost of crude purchases for refiners.
Every one rupee increase in the Indian currency against the
dollar raises the three refiners’ annual losses from fuel sales
by about 80 billion rupees, Minister Reddy said yesterday.  To compensate the refiners, state-run oil producers
including Oil & Natural Gas Corp. and  Oil India Ltd. (OINL)  sell crude
at a discount, hurting their profits. The explorers would “be
lucky” if their share of total subsidy for the year ending
March 31 remained at 33 percent, Reddy said.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate has stayed
above 9 percent since the start of December and was 9.72 percent
in September, according to the commerce ministry. High crude  oil
prices  may boost fuel subsidies and make the goal of narrowing
the  budget deficit  to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product by
March 31 a “challenge,” Mukherjee said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  