-- 
India Reserve Bank Policy has Hurt Economy, India Infoline Says

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-10-19T09:55:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/india-reserve-bank-policy-has-hurt-economy-india-infoline-says.html
Nirmal Jain, Chairman of brokerage
 India  Infoline Ltd., comments on the outlook for the country’s
equities in an interview with Bloomberg UTV.  The benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index surged 2 percent to
17,090.01 at 3:15 p.m. in Mumbai.  On Europe crisis:  “The mood continues to be cautious; the euro zone debt
crisis does not have an elegant solution in sight and whatever
European leaders are trying to do, there are multiple concerns.
This crisis will have very painful jitters. We live in a world,
or in a market, where we will continue to have volatile stocks.  On local borrowing costs:  ‘‘The interest-rate hike has hurt more than helped our
economy. There’s a problem and there is a disease for which the
 Reserve Bank  of India doesn’t have a solution. RBI’s monetary
policy will have very little impact on food articles because
they are all governed by demand-supply mismatches. Even for
manufacturing, the rate hike is actually constraining capacity
increase, which is a long-term solution for curbing inflation.
There should be a pause now. If there is no pause then things
can further aggravate.”  The Reserve Bank of India raised its repurchase rate for a
12th time since March 2010 on Sept. 16 to tackle the fastest
inflation among   Brazil , Russia, India,  China  and  South Africa .
Its next policy review is on Oct. 25.  On valuations:  “Valuations have corrected and they are quite attractive.
The Indian story, from a medium term of three-to-five years,
remains intact. Relatively, India stands out because globally if
you look at things in  Europe , the U.S.,  Japan  or anywhere else,
they are so bad. Even China has seen a slowdown in the third
quarter. India has potential to attract money.”  The Sensex has slumped 17 percent this year on concern the
central bank’s record interest-rate increases may compound the
effects of Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and slowing economic
growth in the U.S. on corporate profits. Companies in the gauge
trade at 14.4 times estimated earnings, down from 21.5 times in
March 2010. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index trades at 9.9 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  