-- 
Intel Gains After Forecast Tops Estimates on Laptop Demand

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-10-19T20:41:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/intel-shares-gain-after-forecast-tops-estimates-on-laptop-demand.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  shares rose in U.S.
trading after the world’s biggest chipmaker forecast fourth-
quarter sales that exceeded some analysts’ estimates, citing
strong demand for  laptop computers  in emerging markets.  Revenue will climb to $14.7 billion, plus or minus $500
million, Intel said in a statement yesterday. That compares with
$14.2 billion, the average of analysts’ projections compiled by
Bloomberg. Fourth-quarter gross margin, the percentage of sales
left after deducting production costs, will be about 65 percent.  Intel said sales of  notebook computers  are driving earnings,
with unit growth at a percentage in the double digits. The
outlook defied analysts’ predictions that consumers are turning
away from laptops in favor of tablets and smartphones. Intel
also may have benefited from a failure by rival  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD)  to supply enough of its own new chips.  “Even though I’ve been a believer for some time, this was
a pleasant surprise,” said Michael Shinnick, a portfolio
manager at  South Bend , Indiana-based Wasatch Advisors Inc.,
which owns Intel stock. “You have this huge demand for server
chips as well as the leapfrogging that’s happening in the
emerging markets, where they’re going from pencil and paper to
computing.”  The company also boosted its stock-buyback program by $10
billion, bringing the total available for repurchases to $14.2
billion at the end of the third quarter.  More Affordable  Intel shares rose 3.6 percent to close at $24.24 in  New
York . The shares have gained 15 percent this year.  “The emerging markets, as the technology we sell becomes
more affordable, are generating significant growth,” Intel
Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith said in an interview.  AMD, Intel’s main challenger in PC chips, last month said
manufacturing glitches at a plant in  Germany  were hurting
production of its processors for PCs and servers.  Intel’s third-quarter net income rose to $3.47 billion, or
65 cents a share, from $2.96 billion, or 52 cents, a year
earlier, the  Santa Clara , California-based company said.
Analysts on average had estimated profit of 61 cents. Sales
increased 28 percent to a record $14.2 billion, compared with an
average prediction of $13.9 billion.  Intel’s chips are in more than 80 percent of the world’s
PCs, though the company has failed to parlay that dominance into
orders for mobile phones and tablet computers, where chips based
on ARM Holdings Plc technology have the majority of the market.  Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  said the company is
still on course to have its chips appear in phones “from a
variety of suppliers” in the first half of next year.  Consumer Demand  Yesterday’s report marked the 12th consecutive quarter
Intel has posted higher sales than analysts had estimated,
according to Bloomberg data, countering predictions that its
dependence on personal computers would impede growth as more
consumers opted for handheld devices like Apple Inc.’s iPad and
iPhone.  Apple yesterday reported profit and sales that missed
analysts’ expectations after selling fewer iPhones than
predicted.  Gross margin, the only measure of profitability that Intel
forecasts, was 63.4 percent in the third quarter. The company’s
division that makes PC chips reported a 22 percent increase in
sales to $9.4 billion. Revenue in its Data Center Group, which
supplies server chips, climbed 15 percent to $2.5 billion.  PC Growth Estimate  The PC market  will grow  4.2 percent to 361.6 million units
this year as consumers buy fewer machines, according to market
researcher IDC. In the same period, the smartphone market will
jump 55 percent to 472 million units, making it bigger than PCs
by that measure for the first time, IDC said.  Surging sales of smartphones and tablet computers are
driving demand for the machines that provide them with data.
Those servers are powered by Intel’s more expensive Xeon range
of processors, helping buoy its profitability.  Still, Intel’s prediction of a fourth-quarter sales gain of
about 3 percent from the preceding three months -- at the lower
end of the average range of increases -- reflects concerns that
consumers in Western Europe will continue to hold off on
purchases, Intel’s Smith said yesterday.  Consumer spending  is
usually concentrated in the fourth quarter during the end-of-
year holiday shopping season, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 