-- 
Hirst’s 100 Fish Fetch $2.8 Million as Pinault, Arnault Browse

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n   a n d   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-10-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/hirst-s-100-fish-fetch-2-8-million-as-art-dealers-toast-billionaire-sales.html
A sculpture of 100 fish by  Damien Hirst  was snapped up with a price tag of $2.8 million. A Takashi Murakami painting of a Chinese lion dog and two works by  Louise Bourgeois  were also hitting the $2 million mark in Paris.  Dealers at FIAC were sipping Champagne at the VIP preview
last night, relieved that the art market was holding up as the
French and German governments continued talks on the sovereign
debt crisis. Billionaires including  Francois Pinault  and  Bernard Arnault  browsed the fair, as did L’Oreal honorary chairman
Lindsay Owen-Jones and  Martine Aubry , the French Socialist Party
presidential contender defeated in primaries last weekend.  “The fair has a zip to it this year,” said Matthew Armstrong, the New York-based curator for Lightyear Capital, a
U.S. private-equity firm.  Million-dollar sales will help art-market confidence shaken
by financial volatility. Rich collectors from around the world
are looking for works by established names as dependable
investments as economies falter.  Hirst’s 1993 cabinet “Where Will It End,” featuring fish in
formaldehyde, sold on the morning of the preview to a European 
collector on the booth of  White Cube , which was among 33 
galleries either returning or showing for the first time at
 France ’s biggest fair, known as the Foire Internationale d’Art
Contemporain. The 38th edition brings together 168 galleries
from 21 countries in the Grand Palais.  It started three days after Frieze, which focused on
contemporary artists, and where some buyers were taking their
time over purchases.  FIAC Quality  “I look for a sense of liveliness at a fair, and I find
more of it here than at Frieze,” the New York-based adviser  Todd Levin  said. “If dealers exhibit at both fairs, the quality of
the booth tends to be a notch higher here in Paris.”  Unlike its U.K. rival, the Paris event combines pieces by
emerging names with big-ticket works by  Pablo Picasso  and other
20th-century modernists.  The presence of older works such as a 1960s Picasso
“Musketeer” painting on the booth of Gagosian, priced between $6
million and $8 million, encourages exhibitors to bring higher-
quality contemporary pieces, said dealers.  “For me, it’s more interesting to see the cutting edge
combined with classic works,” said the Greenwich, Connecticut-
based collector David Rogath, who didn’t attend this year’s
Frieze. Next October, the London fair will be holding a new
Frieze Masters event.  The 9 foot (2.7 meter) 2011 Manga-style Murakami painting
of a dog reclining on a pile of skulls was priced at more than
$2 million on the booth of the Paris dealer  Emmanuel Perrotin .
Its sale to an unidentified European museum was confirmed on the
morning of the preview.  Bourgeois Drawings  New York dealers  Cheim & Read  sold a 2004 fabric torso and
a 2006 suite of 24 drawings by Bourgeois for about $1 million
each to Saudi Arabian and Moroccan buyers.  “It's more international this year,” said Glenn Scott 
Wright, director at  London 's  Victoria Miro Gallery . “Last year, 
it was very French. There are more Americans and curators this 
time.” He is showing works by three women artists, including a 
group of paintings by Alice Neel ranging from the 1930s to 
1970s.   The Brussels and Paris dealer  Galerie Vedovi  found a buyer 
for the 1974 Ed Ruscha word painting, “We Didn’t Care and 
Neither Did She," priced at $1.2 million.  Some exhibitors were incensed to discover that France’s
premier art collectors, Christie’s International owner Pinault,
and Arnault, chairman of LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA,
had been given a private tour the previous evening while they
were attending a charity dinner at the Musee d’Art Moderne de la
Ville de Paris. Visiting galleries can spend as much as $100,000
on their booths and related expenses in the hope of meeting such
billionaire buyers.  Nazi Camp  Among the smaller emerging galleries -- located this year 
on the upper level of the Grand Palais -- the Paris dealer 
 Loevenbruck  offered a group of works by the late Polish artist 
Alina Szapocznikow, a survivor of the Bergen-Belsen Nazi 
concentration camp who died of cancer in 1973. Last week at 
Frieze, her sculpture “Tumour” was bought by the Tate for its 
collection. She is due to be the subject of an exhibition at the 
Museum of  Modern Art ,  New York , in September.  Loevenbruck found U.S. and European buyers for 
Szapocznikow's 1960s resin sculptures “Autoportrait” and “Lampe-
bouche,” priced at 340,000 euros ($468,830) and 320,000 euros 
respectively. All the works had been released for sale from the
artist's estate.  Fiac confirmed its reputation for being a fair where big-
ticket items can find buyers today when the New York dealer 
Cheim & Read sold a large 1985 canvas by the American Abstract 
Expressionist painter Joan Mitchell for about $3 million.  From the estate of the artist, “Then, Last Time IVV” sold 
to a French foundation, said Cheim & Read. The painting, freely
worked in shades of blue and green, was made by Mitchell when
living at Vetheuil, near Giverny, the home of  Claude Monet .  The Foire Internationale d’Art Contemporain is at the Grand
Palais, Paris, through Oct. 23. Information:
 http://www.fiac.com/?lg=en   (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writers on the story:
Scott Reyburn in Paris at  sreyburn@hotmail.com ;
Farah Nayeri in Paris at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 