-- 
Irving, Seaspan Marine Win $32 Billion Deals to Build Canadian Navy Ships

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-10-19T23:21:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/irving-seaspan-win-32-billion-contracts-to-build-canadian-navy-ships.html
Irving Shipbuilding Inc. of Halifax,
Nova Scotia and Vancouver-based Seaspan Marine Corp. were named
the winning bidders in a C$33-billion ($32.4 billion)
procurement project to build ships for the Canadian Navy and
Coast Guard, the government announced today.  Irving was awarded the combat component of the project,
consisting of 15 warships and six patrol ships, Francois
Guimont, deputy minister of public works said. Seaspan will
build as many as eight non-combat vessels, including support
ships and a polar icebreaker.  Three shipyards, including Davie  Canada  from Quebec, had
submitted bids in July on the tender, the biggest government
 procurement  in Canada’s history.  Irving and Seaspan will now negotiate construction
contracts with the government on the different types of ships.
Most of the estimated value of the contract may eventually flow
to large defense contractors such as Lockheed Martin Corp. and
Thales SA, who will likely be subcontracted to supply weapons
and other systems, said Ugurhan Berkok, chair of defense-
management studies at Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario.  “They will eventually have to team up with combat-system
manufacturers,” he said by phone. “You’re talking about easily
60 percent that will not be manufactured in Canada.”  Under Canada’s policy on defense contracts, foreign
suppliers will be required to invest one dollar in Canada for
every dollar of the contract they earn, Berkok added.  Merit, Hard Work  The contracts will create about 15,000 jobs across the
country, said Defence Minister Peter MacKay, who represents a
district in Nova Scotia.  “They won this on their merit. They won this on hard
work,” MacKay told reporters in Ottawa. “They put forward a
very competitive bid into a process that was merit-based,” said
MacKay, who represents a district in Nova Scotia.  A spokesman for Davie Canada said that while the company is
disappointed with the results, it has no complaints about the
bidding process.  “If it all went as it appeared to go, based on our
observation, I think the process was run exactly the way it said
it would be,” said John Dewar, a vice president at Upper Lakes
Group, which acquired the Davie shipyard in July. “It was open,
it was fair and it was transparent,”  The combat part of the contract is worth about C$25
billion, and the non-combat portion about C$8 billion, Dewar
said.  Davie Uncertainty  The decision creates uncertainty for the Davie yard, which
is based in Levis,  Quebec , said Nycole Turmel, interim leader of
the  New Democratic Party , the biggest opposition party in
Canada’s House of Commons.  A C$2 billion contract to build 116 small ships, will be
awarded to shipyards other than Irving and Seaspan, Guimont
said. As well, maintenance and repair work worth $500 million
annually will be open to all shipyards through normal
procurement processes.  Turmel called on the government to accelerate the awarding
of the remaining contracts so all Canadian shipyards can
benefit. “We have to build this industry everywhere, not pick
winners and losers like the Conservatives have done,” she said
in an e-mailed statement.  A committee of senior bureaucrats was responsible for
choosing the winning bids, and Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
cabinet wasn’t involved in the decision, said Michelle Bakos, a
spokeswoman for Public Works Minister Rona Ambrose, in an e-
mail.  ‘Great Day’  Jim Irving, chief executive officer of Irving Shipbuilding,
called it a “great day for shipbuilding in Canada.”  “We’d like to assure the government of Canada, and all
Canadians, that we will continue to devote our efforts to
building quality vessels for our men and women in uniform and
delivering best value to Canadians for this important
investment, one that will provide economic benefits across
Canada,” Irving said in a statement.  A spokeswoman for Seaspan didn’t immediately reply to a
phone message seeking comment.  The Nova Scotia, Quebec and B.C. governments all lobbied
for the bids to be awarded to companies from their provinces.
The federal government’s tender process prohibited companies
from using corporate lobbyists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 