-- 
Japan Finance Ministry Said to Plan $13 Billion Bond Sale for Rebuilding

-- B y   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-10-20T06:12:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/japan-finance-ministry-said-to-plan-1-trillion-yen-bond-sale.html
Japan  may sell about 1 trillion yen
($13 billion) of bonds to fund rebuilding of areas stricken by
the March earthquake, according to two government officials who
declined to be identified because the plan isn’t public.  The amount is less than estimates of analysts at UBS AG.,
Mizuho Securities Co. and Nomura Securities Co., which ranged
between 1.2 trillion yen and 2.4 trillion yen, as Japan proceeds
with its first bond sale dedicated to fund reconstruction from a
disaster that has killed or left more than 19,000 missing.  The nation’s credit rating was lowered by Moody’s Investors
Service and Standard & Poor’s this year and the government has
pledged to curb the biggest debt burden in the industrialized
world. Limiting the pace of bond issuance may indicate
government concern that funding rebuilding from the record
earthquake threatens to weaken the economic rebound.  “This is a positive surprise,” said  Kazuhiko Sano , chief
debt strategist at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co., one of the 25
primary dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales. “The
question now is whether the government can succeed in raising
taxes to repay the debt and whether the spending will be enough
for reconstruction.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond fell two basis
points to 1.01 percent as of 3:06 p.m. today. Yields on the
five-year note slid one basis point to 0.37 percent, and were
unchanged at 0.15 percent for the two-year security.  Analyst Estimates  The Nikkei newspaper earlier reported a plan to raise as
much as 1 trillion yen from bond sales to individual investors.
After that report, UBS revised its debt estimate of bonds sold
to institutional investors to 1.6 trillion yen from an earlier
estimate of 2.4 trillion yen. As of yesterday, Mizuho Securities
Co. forecast 2 trillion yen and Nomura had predicted between 1.2
and 1.4 trillion yen.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  is scheduled to convene an
extraordinary diet session this week to discuss spending for the
third supplementary budget and raising taxes to help pay for
reconstruction costs.  Fifty-eight percent of Japanese people oppose a tax
increase as a means of paying for post-earthquake rebuilding,
compared with 39 percent who support the plan, according to a
Mainichi newspaper survey published on Oct. 3.  Bond sales to the market are expected to rise to a record
144.9 trillion yen this fiscal year, the government said in a
budget proposal in December.  Moody’s lowered Japan’s sovereign-credit to Aa3 on Aug. 24,
noting that “weak” prospects for growth and rebuilding costs
from the March disaster hamper the government’s ability to
control its debt load. S&P has a negative outlook on its Japan’s
AA- in grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  