-- 
John Brown, the Antislavery Entrepreneur (Part 3): Tony Horwitz

-- B y   T o n y   H o r w i t z
-- 
2011-10-19T00:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/john-brown-antislavery-entrepreneur-part-3-commentary-by-tony-horwitz.html
In the fall of 1855, John Brown
arrived in “Bleeding  Kansas ,” a state torn between slavery’s
adherents and its opponents, with a wagonload of guns and
swords. After helping his sons harvest crops and build homes, he
quickly joined the fight over slavery.  In May 1856, he led a group of men in a night attack on a
proslavery hamlet, killing five settlers. That summer, as
battles raged across Kansas, Brown won fame for his courage and
daring, but the fighting left one of his sons dead, another
wounded and a third captured. In the third excerpt from his new
 book , “Midnight Rising: John Brown and the Raid That Sparked
the Civil War,” Tony Horwitz follows Brown back east, as he
seeks financial support for his crusade:  In October 1856, Brown left Kansas in the back of a wagon,
desperately ill with dysentery and fever. He had entered the
territory exactly a year before, a weary pioneer with a broken-
down horse and 60 cents in his pocket. His financial and
physical health was no better upon his departure. But he was
leaving Kansas as “Captain Brown,” a hero to abolitionists and
slavery’s great scourge.  “You need not be anxious about me if I am some time on the
road,” he wrote his wife, “as I have to stop at several
places; & go some out of my way; having left partly on business
expecting to return if the troubles continue in Kansas.”  Guerrilla Warfare  By “business,” Brown no longer meant wool-selling or the
many other trades he’d pursued. His new vocation was guerrilla
warfare, and to wage it he needed money and weapons. To get
them, he headed east in freedom-fighter persona, carrying props
from his frontier combat, including a bowie knife taken from a
proslavery leader he had defeated. He also carried a letter of
introduction to a young man who would prove critical to his
mission.  At 25, Franklin Sanborn was already one of the best-
connected abolitionists in  New England , and a recent Harvard
graduate as smooth as Brown was rough. Darkly handsome, fluent
in Greek and Latin, Sanborn made an art of attaching himself to
famous men, including Ralph Waldo Emerson, who invited him to
run a school in Concord,  Massachusetts , the citadel of
transcendentalism. He also served as secretary of a leading
“Kansas Committee” formed to aid the free-state cause.  Upon meeting Brown, Sanborn immediately grasped the rough-
hewn warrior’s potential. He became Brown’s speaking agent and
social liaison, providing entree to the upper reaches of the New
England society. Under his management, Brown spent the first
half of 1857 speaking and fundraising at the lecture halls and
salons of the antislavery establishment, including the Astor
House in  New York , the State House in Boston and the town hall
of Concord, where he also dined at the homes of Emerson and
Henry David Thoreau.  “He did not overstate anything, but spoke within bounds,”
Thoreau wrote of Brown, “paring away his speech, like an
experienced soldier, keeping a reserve of force and meaning.”
Brown’s austere manner, and his unbending faith in himself and
his mission, evoked frequent comparisons to Oliver Cromwell, the
English Puritan warrior. His rigidly erect bearing and weather-
beaten face added to the impression, as did his deacon-fighter
attire: high-collared white shirt, brown broadcloth suit and
gray military-style cape.  ‘Moral Magnetism’  Brown was deft at stirring consciences, possessing what one
 Boston  hostess called “moral magnetism.” Upon hearing of his
devotion to the cause and his sacrifices in Kansas (including
the death and wounding of his sons), Mary Stearns wrote that
“it suddenly seemed mean and unworthy --not to say wicked -- to
be living in luxury while such a man was struggling for a few
thousands to carry out his cherished plan.”  Brown said he wanted to equip and train 100 “Minute Men”
to defend antislavery settlers in Kansas. Beyond that, he
revealed little. “I do not expose my plans,” he said. “I have
no other purpose but to serve the cause of liberty.”  Brown’s pitch brought mostly modest contributions or
pledges of cash, clothing and other supplies. The Kansas
Committee of which Sanborn was secretary gave Brown custody of
200 rifles it had stored in  Iowa . The committee chair, George
Luther Stearns -- husband of the admiring Mary --paid for 200
revolvers, and also pledged thousands of dollars to the fight.  Brown also tapped his wealthy backers for aid to his
impoverished family. “I have no other income for their
support,” he wrote, assuring a donor that the money would be
carefully spent, “my Wife being a good economist, & a real old-
fashioned business woman.”  Unfortunately, Brown’s own business habits hadn’t changed.
As soon as he had funds, he succumbed to the same grandiosity
and poor judgment that had doomed his earlier gambles as a land
speculator and wool merchant. While fundraising in  Connecticut ,
Brown showed off his fearsome bowie knife and wondered if the
long, two-edged blade could be affixed to a 6-foot shaft. Such a
pike, he figured, would be the perfect defensive weapon “for
the settlers of Kansas to keep in their log cabins.”  Never one for halfway measures, Brown promptly contracted
with a forge-master, Charles Blair, to make 1,000 of the spears.
But after paying an initial $550, Brown failed to come up with
the balance. Blair kept the money he’d received and stopped
work.  Drillmaster Folly  Then Brown undertook a much costlier folly. In  New York
City , he met Hugh Forbes, a British fencing teacher and soldier
of fortune who had served with Italian revolutionary Giuseppe
Garibaldi. The flamboyant “colonel,” as Forbes styled himself,
struck Brown as the perfect drillmaster for the volunteer force
he planned to train. So he hired Forbes and advanced him six
months’ pay, partly as compensation for a manual on guerrilla
tactics that the colonel promised to deliver.  Months later, Brown was still waiting for the manual, and
for Forbes to come train his Minute Men at the base camp he had
established in an Iowa town near the Kansas line. “I furnished
that money in the full expectation of having your personal
assistance this present time,” Brown wrote, in a vain effort to
recover his payment.  Belatedly, Forbes did finish the manual and appear in Iowa
-- by which time Brown was too broke to pay any of the salary
he’d promised. The disgruntled mercenary soon decamped, taking
with him a great deal of information about Brown’s secret plans
that would later prove damaging.  By the late summer of 1857, Brown could no longer afford
his board in Iowa. He had ample guns, but still lacked
knapsacks, saddlebags and other gear his private army needed.
Inaction and delay had also sapped Brown’s customary drive.
“How to act now,” he wrote. “I do not know.”  This paralysis didn’t last long. Throughout his life, Brown
searched for clues to his destiny. Everything had meaning, a
hidden divine purpose -- even his funk in the summer of 1857. He
decided it was a sign that he should abandon his Kansas plans
and put in motion the much-more-ambitious scheme he had been
mulling for decades.  “In immediate want of from Five Hundred to One Thousand
Dollars for secret service & no questions asked,” he wrote one
of his Eastern patrons late that summer. In the fall, he went to
Kansas and convened a small group of veteran fighters around a
campfire on the prairie, seeking to enlist them for a strike
against slavery. “If you want hard fighting, you’ll get plenty
of it,” he said, offering few details.  Nine men agreed to follow him back to his training base in
Iowa. Only then did he reveal the mission that would cost most
of them their lives. As one of the recruits later stated in a
jailhouse confession, “Here we found that Capt. Brown’s
ultimate destination was the State of Virginia.”  (Tony Horwitz is the author of “A Voyage Long and
Strange,” “Blue Latitudes,” “Confederates in the Attic” and
“Baghdad Without a Map.” This is the third in a five-part
series excerpted from his new book, “Midnight Rising: John
Brown and the Raid That Sparked the Civil War,” to be published
Oct. 25 by Henry Holt and Co. The opinions expressed are his
own. See  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 4  and  Part 5 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Tony Horwitz at the website  www.tonyhorwitz.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  