-- 
Kaiser Chiefs, Redgrave Drawls, Madonna’s Film: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-10-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/kaiser-chiefs-riot-redgrave-drawls-madonna-makes-movie-london-weekend.html
The Kaiser Chiefs will be stirring
up a storm in Kentish Town on Friday night. The U.K. band is
still turning out rabble-rousing music after oddly prescient
records such as “I Predict a Riot” and “Yours Truly, Angry Mob.”  Q Awards Series at HMV Forum, 9-17 Highgate Road, NW5 1JY.
Information: +44-20-7428-4080,  http://bit.ly/1W9IkH ,
 http://www.kaiserchiefs.com/   The Bull & Last, just along Highgate Road from the HMV
Forum, last week won an award for the U.K.’s best Sunday lunch.
Fortunately, this pub serves great food every day. The prices
are reasonable: A starter of brown-crab macaroni, crispy soft-
shell crab, tomato, tarragon and creme fraiche costs 9.50 pounds
($15). Information:  http://www.thebullandlast.co.uk/  or
+44-20-7267-3641.  Friday night, the Royal Albert Hall has rock of a different
flavor as  Matt Goss  brings his Las Vegas show to town, with
support from Mitch Winehouse, who will be spreading the word
about his late daughter’s  Amy Winehouse Foundation .  Saturday  George W. Bush  wears a stern expression as he starts the
solemn countdown to war.  “10, 9, 8, 9, 5, 7, 2, er...” says the former U.S.
president -- as pictured on a cover of the British satirical
fortnightly  Private Eye . The muckraking magazine, 50 this 
year, has a small tribute exhibition at the Victoria and 
Albert Museum.  The focus is on the fine hand-drawn cartoons. They depict
both nameless and famous figures, such as the green-minded
Prince Charles, who stoops to talk to a flower (“Now tell me,
how long have you been a tulip?”)  There’s also a messy corner desk, and a vitrine stuffed
with court judgments and threatened lawsuits. The magazine
covers are funniest, though -- many too crude to quote.  V&A, Cromwell Road,  London  SW7 2RL. Information:
 http://www.vam.ac.uk  or +44-20-7942-2000.  Saturday Night  A grouchy old lady who just crashed her car gets a
chauffeur at her son’s insistence.  The old lady is  Vanessa Redgrave  in the London staging of
“Driving Miss Daisy,” and her driver Hoke is James Earl Jones.
After a reluctant first ride to the Piggly Wiggly store in 1940s
 Georgia , Daisy loosens up, until Hoke becomes her “best friend.”  Though Redgrave never quite nails the southern drawl, she
ages visibly in this touching production, as does the excellent
Jones. Sets are fun too: The car consists of a steering wheel
and wooden seats that rotate automatically to park or turn.  “Driving  Miss Daisy ” is at Wyndham’s Theatre. Information:
 http://www.delfontmackintosh.co.uk  or +44-844-482-5136.  Sunday  Judge Madonna on her filmmaking abilities Sunday.  The singer-performer’s “W.E.” -- a two-tracked narrative
inspired by the life of Wallis Simpson, the American heiress who
led King Edward VIII to abdicate -- is playing as part of the
London Film Festival.  The festival runs through Oct. 27 and, unlike its Cannes
counterpart, is geared toward the general public. Information:
 http://www.bfi.org.uk/lff .  St John Hotel, just off Leicester Square, is convenient for
London Film Festival events and it’s the kind of celebrity
hangout where you might run into actors and directors.  While chef  Fergus Henderson ’s nose-to-tail dishes aren’t
for everyone, there’s always the bar if you don’t fancy deviled
pig’s skin or rabbit & sea-beet pie. Information:
 http://www.stjohnhotellondon.com/  or +44-20-3301 8069.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 