-- 
As Kaldor’s Facts Fall, Occupy Wall Street Rises: Peter Orszag

-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 
2011-10-19T00:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/kaldor-s-facts-fall-occupy-wall-street-rises-commentary-by-peter-orszag.html
In Economics 101, students learn
that the share of national income received by labor stays
roughly constant with the share received by capital. This is the
first of “Kaldor’s stylized facts,” articulated half a century
ago by the Cambridge economist Nicholas Kaldor.  Recent experience betrays this lesson. Over the past two
decades -- and especially since about 2000 -- the share of
national income that flows into wages and other kinds of worker
compensation has been plummeting in various countries.  Labor share normally bounces around over the business
cycle, but given how long the decline has lasted, it can’t be
dismissed as cyclical. And this partly explains the kind of
anger and frustration that is fueling the Occupy Wall Street
movement worldwide.  The numbers involved are substantial: In 1990, about 63
percent of business income in the U.S. took the form of wages
and other types of labor compensation, according to data
compiled by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. By 2005, that figure
had dropped to 61 percent. And by the middle of this year, it
had fallen to 58 percent. (Similar declines have occurred in
other data sets, but are milder when the analysis includes the
government, rather than only the private sector.)  The difference from 1990 to today -- about 5 percentage
points or so of private-sector income -- amounts to more than
$500 billion a year. In other words, if labor’s share hadn’t
fallen, labor income would be $500 billion higher this year.  Worldwide Decline  Similar decreases have been occurring in other countries.
In Germany and  France , the labor share fell about 4 percent from
1995 to today, and it dropped about 6 percent in Australia and
 Japan  during the same period. As  Francisco Rodriguez  and Arjun
Jayadev wrote in a November 2010  paper  for the  United Nations ,
the labor share across the globe has “been subject to a
consistent decline over the last two decades, contrary to the
(earlier) received wisdom of a constant labor share across most
regions in the world.”  Why the drop? Part of the reason is that the advanced
economies have been shifting toward certain types of services
and advanced manufacturing that have lower shares of labor
income. But that explains only a small part of the decline. Even
within such sectors, the share has been falling substantially.
What’s causing that?  The two primary drivers are globalization and technological
change. From 1980 to 2005, as the world became more integrated,
the effective labor supply available on a global basis expanded
by 100 percent to 300 percent (depending on how the estimates
are done). That increased competition has pushed labor
compensation down in the industrialized economies.  The effects of technological change are more subtle. As
automation reduces the demand for workers, the labor share
initially falls, but in time, as people adjust their skills to
suit the new technology, the effect is often reversed.  In a 2007  paper  for the  International Monetary Fund ,
Florence Jaumotte and Irina Tytell tried to parse the various
causes of the declining labor share. In the U.S., the U.K.,
Australia and  Canada , the economists concluded, labor
globalization and technological change played roughly equal
roles, and crucial ones at that. In European countries and
Japan, technological change was more significant than labor
globalization. Other factors --including unions and
privatization trends -- have been found to be influential, but
labor globalization and technological change loom as the
dominant forces.  Further Decline Ahead  Over the next decade, the global pool of labor is likely to
expand rapidly for many reasons -- as more workers in  China 
obtain advanced educations and migrate to the coastal cities,
for example.  (Interestingly, the labor share has also been declining
significantly in  China . Part of that appears to be a statistical
error, and the remainder reflects an ongoing shift from
agriculture to manufacturing. The early stage of that process
often involves a decline in labor share, which is then followed
by an increase as the development process continues.)  The labor share in the U.S. will probably bounce up and
down as the economy slowly recovers. Unless we are somehow going
to cut ourselves off from the world, though, we face the
prospect of a continued downward trend in the labor share. The
trite response to this reality is to call for more education and
better training for workers, and more investments in research
and development as well as infrastructure. It’s true that all
such actions would help. But they take time, and even then they
would probably only take some of the edge off the decline, not
fundamentally reverse it.  No wonder the frustrated Wall Street protesters lack any
specific proposals for change: We are effectively missing $500
billion a year in wages, and no one has a credible set of ideas
that would bring it back.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  