-- 
Kinder Morgan Energy Profit Falls on Acquisition Cost

-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-10-19T23:12:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/kinder-morgan-energy-s-profit-falls-on-costs-from-acquisition.html
Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) ,
whose parent is buying  El Paso Corp. (EP) , said third-quarter profit
fell on costs related to an acquisition in July.  Net income declined to $216.3 million from $322.4 million a
year earlier, Houston-based Kinder Morgan said today in a
statement. The company’s income fell due to a net loss of $234.7
million related to the acquisition of a pipeline system and a
legal judgment in  California .  Excluding those items, Kinder Morgan’s distributable cash
flow, a measure of the partnership’s ability to make payments to
its unitholders, rose 24 percent to $394 million, or $1.19 a
unit, from a year earlier.  “No real surprises,” Dan Spears, a  fund manager  at Swank
Capital LLC in  Dallas , which manages $1.5 billion and owns units
in Kinder Morgan Energy, said in an e-mail.  Kinder Morgan Energy’s parent, Kinder Morgan Inc., announced
Oct. 16 that it’s buying El Paso for $21.1 billion. Once the
deal closes, the parent company will sell some of El Paso’s
pipelines to Kinder Morgan Energy, which is structured as a
master-limited partnership and pays no corporate income tax.  The El Paso deal will shore up earnings at both companies
for the foreseeable future, said Bradley Olsen, a Houston-based
analyst at Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co.  The parent company’s stock price has fallen since it held an
initial public offering in February on concern its subsidiary
partnership wasn’t growing fast enough to support the parent.  Dividend Set  “Growing a company that’s that large every year requires
billions of dollars in investment,” Olsen, who rates the
partnership at “hold” and owns none of its units, said in an
interview before the earnings were released.  The parent company,  Kinder Morgan  Inc., will pay a dividend
of 30 cents a unit for the quarter, according to a statement.  Kinder Morgan Energy, which owns most of Kinder Morgan’s
assets, expects to increase its distributions to $4.60 per unit
for all of 2011, a gain of 4.5 percent over 2010.  Earnings at the partnership’s gas pipeline unit increased 31
percent to $248 million. Kinder Morgan shipped 738.5 billion
cubic feet during the quarter, up 12 percent from the previous
year.  At its CO2 unit, which sells the gas and also produces crude
oil, earnings grew 25 percent to $286.3 million. Benchmark U.S.
crude oil futures rose 17 percent to average $89.54 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , from $76.21 a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  