-- 
KV Pharmaceutical Sued Over Pregnancy Drug Pricing Statements

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-10-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/kv-pharmaceutical-investor-sues-over-pregnancy-drug-pricing.html
KV Pharmaceutical Co. (KV/A)  was sued by
an investor who accused it of misleading shareholders about its
marketing plans for Makena, a drug intended to prevent premature
births.  Frank Julianello’s complaint, filed yesterday in federal
court in St. Louis, accuses the Bridgeton, Missouri, drugmaker,
Chief Executive Officer Gregory Divis and another executive,
Scott Goedeke, of making false statements in February about its
intent to make the drug widely available.  Democratic U.S. Senators  Amy Klobuchar  of Minnesota and
 Sherrod Brown  of Ohio criticized KV the following month for
pricing Makena at $1,500 per injection, when it previously was
available for $10 to $20 per weekly dosage. KV shares fell 21
percent on March 30 after the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
said pharmacists were free to provide less-expensive versions.
KV dropped from $13.07 on March 8 to $4.60 on April 5, losing 65
percent of its value.  “This decrease in the price of KV’s stock was a result of
the artificial inflation caused by defendants’ misleading
statements,” according to Julianello’s complaint.  He seeks class-action, or group, status on behalf of
everyone who bought the company’s stock from Feb. 14 to April 4,
an an award of unspecified money damages, plus interest.  There was no immediate reply yesterday to voice-mail or e-
mail messages left with the company’s investor relations
department.  Goedeke is a vice president with the company’s Ther-Rx
Corp. unit.  The case is Julianello v. KV Pharmaceutical Co., 11-
cv-01816, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri ( St.
Louis ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  