-- 
New York State’s First-Half Revenue Falls $392 Million Short of Estimate

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-10-19T20:35:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/n-y-state-s-mid-year-revenue-results-fall-short-of-projections.html
New York tax collections for the
first half of the fiscal year missed projections by $391.9
million, state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said.  Personal income taxes, the largest source of revenue, were
$16.5 million short of the forecast in the financial plan
updated Aug. 2, DiNapoli said in a  statement . Business-tax
revenue in the general fund missed estimates by $338.1 million.  “If these trends continue, the state may need to adjust
its revenue projections downward,” DiNapoli said.  New York joins California and  Florida  in reporting revenue
below forecasts this month. U.S. states are projecting combined
budget gaps of $31.9 billion in fiscal 2013, according to the
 National Conference of State Legislatures  in Denver.  Even though New York revenue fell below forecast, general-
fund tax collections from April 1 through Sept. 30 rose $2.7
billion, or 14.2 percent, from the same period last year,
DiNapoli said. Unlike most states, where fiscal years begin July
1, New York starts its budget on April 1.  Last week, DiNapoli warned that the revenue is likely to
fall short of targets as Wall Street bonuses shrink and firms
shed thousands of jobs. In 2010, the finance industry accounted
for 23.5 percent of wages paid by businesses while making up 5.3
percent of jobs, he said. DiNapoli projected the deficit for the
next fiscal year at $2.4 billion, $400 million more than the
estimate in March.  ’Jump-Start’  Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s budget office will now begin its
annual review of midyear spending and revenue, and is expected
to release an updated version of the financial plan in November,
according to the comptroller’s office. The revised plan will
“jump-start” budget talks for 2013, DiNapoli said.  Cuomo, a 53-year-old Democrat, said this month he expects
to increase education and health-care spending by 4 percent next
fiscal year.  Cuomo has said repeatedly he won’t support a new tax on
residents who earn more than $1 million annually, which Assembly
Speaker Sheldon Silver said he will introduce. During the last
budget cycle, the Manhattan Democrat pushed Cuomo to extend a
surcharge on individuals who earn more than $200,000, which is
set to expire on Dec. 31. However, Cuomo and Senate Republicans,
who hold a majority, opposed the plan.  Planners in the Cuomo administration believe that over the
course of the full year, collections will even out, said Morris
Peters, a spokesman for the budget office.  “We still believe we’re on track for the year,” Peters
said. “While plenty of risks remain, our financial plan
anticipated softness in the markets. Variances with the cash
report are largely related to timing.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany,  New York  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  