-- 
NBA Mediation With Players Ends for Day, to Continue Tomorrow in New York

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-19T23:20:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/nba-talks-roll-on-as-commissioner-stern-departs-for-meeting-with-owners.html
The  National Basketball
Association ’s federally mediated labor negotiations with its
players union concluded for the night with the sides agreeing to
continue tomorrow following the league’s Board of Governors
meeting.  Full negotiating committees for the league and the National
Basketball Players Association met today for about 8 1/2 hours
at a midtown New York hotel, about half the length of the
group’s first session supervised by federal mediator George Cohen, which ran through the day yesterday and ended at 2 a.m.
this morning.  The mediation will continue tomorrow at 2 p.m. and both
sides have agreed to uphold a gag order imposed by Cohen,
director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.  “Everyone is extremely focused on the core issues, the
difficult issues that confront them,” Cohen said at a news
conference, declining to take questions.  NBA Commissioner  David Stern  and Boston Celtics owner Wyc Grousbeck departed the talks about an hour early to begin a
planning committee session that had been moved from earlier
today, Mike Bass, a spokesman for the league, told reporters.
The planning committee is responsible for reshaping the league’s
revenue-sharing policy.  The initial 16-hour mediated session was more than twice as
long as any previous meeting between the two sides since the NBA
locked the players out 111 days ago after they were unable to
agree on a new labor deal.  Today’s talks took place as some of the league’s All-Stars
worked out details of a potential two-week, six-game
international  exhibition tour  that would pay them as much as $1
million per player, ESPN reported.  All-Star Series  The series, with visits to Puerto Rico,  London , Macau and
Australia between Oct. 30 and Nov. 9, is expected to include
 Kobe Bryant ,  LeBron James ,  Dwyane Wade , Derrick Rose,  Carmelo Anthony , Chris Paul, Rajon Rondo, Blake Griffin,  Russell Westbrook ,  Carlos Boozer , Paul Pierce and Kevin Love, while
Kevin Durant and  Kevin Garnett  also are considering
participating, ESPN reported, citing unidentified people
familiar with the discussions.  It has been nine days since Stern canceled the first two
weeks of the season -- which was scheduled to begin Nov. 1 --
and said he believed it was no longer possible to fit in a full
82-game schedule.  The only other time NBA games were canceled was during the
1998-99 season, when the sides reached a deal in early January
1999 and a 50-game season began in early February.  Stern said in a televised interview last week that, “If
there’s a breakthrough, it’s going to come on Tuesday.”  “And if not, I think that the season is really going to
potentially escape from us,” Stern told NBA TV.  Revenue Split  Now it’s Wednesday, and the two sides still are discussing
how to split money from a league that had about $4.3 billion in
revenue last season, as well as what type of salary-cap system
the league will operate under. Stern has said the league’s 30
teams collectively lost at least $300 million in each of the
last three seasons.  The  National Football League  locked out players in March
after negotiations overseen by Cohen in Washington failed to
yield an agreement on how to divide about $9 billion in revenue.
The NFL was able to save its entire season by coming to an
agreement in July. Cohen helped broker a labor accord for Major
League Soccer in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  