-- 
NBA, Players Meet With Mediator for 16 Hours, More Talks Planned for Today

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-19T07:09:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/nba-players-meet-with-mediator-for-16-hours-more-talks-planned-for-today.html
The  National Basketball Association 
and its players union negotiated for 16 hours without resolution
under the supervision of a federal mediator, and will return
this morning for more labor talks.  The two sides began discussions yesterday at 10 a.m. New
York time and the talks concluded at 2 this morning, more than
doubling the previous longest bargaining session during the
lockout now in its 111th day.  After an eight-hour break, the two sides will meet again at
10 a.m. at a midtown Manhattan hotel.  “The mediator has asked both sides to refrain from
commenting,”  Mike Bass , an NBA spokesman, told reporters
following the day of negotiations under the supervision of
federal mediator George Cohen. “Both sides have agreed.”  Cohen, director of the  Federal Mediation and Conciliation
Service , is overseeing the talks between the full negotiating
committees of the NBA and the National Basketball Players
Association.  It has now been nine days since NBA Commissioner  David
Stern  canceled the first two weeks of the season -- which was
scheduled to begin Nov. 1 -- and said he believed it was no
longer possible to fit in a full 82-game schedule.  The only other time NBA games were canceled was during the
1998-99 season, when the sides reached a deal in early January
1999 and a 50-game season began in early February.  Stern said in a televised interview last week that, “If
there’s a breakthrough, it’s going to come on Tuesday.”  “And if not, I think that the season is really going to
potentially escape from us,” Stern told NBA TV.  Board of Governors  Now it’s Wednesday, and the two sides still are discussing
how to split money from a league that had about $4.3 billion in
revenue last season, as well as what type of system the league
will operate under. Stern has said the league’s 30 teams
collectively lost at least $300 million in each of the last
three seasons.  The NBA’s owners were scheduled to begin Board of Governors
committee meetings today and then have a full session tomorrow.
It’s unclear how long the mediated negotiations with Cohen will
last.  The  National Football League  locked out players in March
after negotiations overseen by Cohen in  Washington  failed to
yield an agreement on how to divide about $9 billion in revenue.
The NFL was able to save its entire season by coming to an
agreement in July. Cohen helped broker a labor accord for  Major
League Soccer  in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  