-- 
NBA, Players Return to Bargaining Table

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-19T19:02:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/nba-players-return-to-bargaining-table.html
National Basketball Association  and
players’ union officials returned to labor talks with a federal
mediator after a 16-hour session ended early today without an
agreement.  The talks at a  New York  hotel began yesterday at 10 a.m.
and ended around 2 this morning. The full negotiating committees
for both the league and the National Basketball Players
Association returned today after an eight-hour break.  The league’s owners are in New York this week for Board of
Governors meetings. The group’s planning committee, which
oversees revenue sharing, was scheduled to meet this afternoon
but will instead convene this evening so the negotiations can
continue,  Mike Bass , an NBA spokesman, told reporters.  The first session led by George Cohen, director of the
 Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service , more than doubled
the previous longest bargaining meeting during the lockout, now
in its 111th day.  “The mediator has asked both sides to refrain from
commenting,” Bass said as the two sides took their break.
“Both sides have agreed.”  It has been nine days since NBA Commissioner  David Stern 
canceled the first two weeks of the season -- which was
scheduled to begin Nov. 1 -- and said he believed it was no
longer possible to fit in a full 82-game schedule.  The only other time NBA games were canceled was during the
1998-99 season, when the sides reached a deal in early January
1999 and a 50-game season began in early February.  Breakthrough Time  Stern said in a televised interview last week that, “If
there’s a breakthrough, it’s going to come on Tuesday.”  “And if not, I think that the season is really going to
potentially escape from us,” Stern told NBA TV.  Now it’s Wednesday, and the two sides still are discussing
how to split money from a league that had about $4.3 billion in
revenue last season, as well as what type of salary-cap system
the league will operate under. Stern has said the league’s 30
teams collectively lost at least $300 million in each of the
last three seasons.  The  National Football League  locked out players in March
after negotiations overseen by Cohen in  Washington  failed to
yield an agreement on how to divide about $9 billion in revenue.
The NFL was able to save its entire season by coming to an
agreement in July. Cohen helped broker a labor accord for  Major
League Soccer  in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  