-- 
NBA Players’ Union Seeks to Dismiss Lawsuit by League on Lockout

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-10-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/nba-players-union-asks-judge-to-dismiss-league-s-suit-over-lockout.html
A  National Basketball Association 
lawsuit seeking a ruling that its lockout of players doesn’t
violate antitrust law should be thrown out, the union for the
athletes said.  The league’s “theoretical, unsubstantiated allegations of
a future antitrust dispute do not satisfy the NBA’s burden to
establish a case or controversy of sufficient immediacy and
reality,” the National Basketball Players Association said in
its request to dismiss the case filed in federal court in
 Manhattan .  The NBA sued the union in August, alleging it had
threatened use of antitrust litigation to extract better terms
in contract talks. NBA Commissioner  David Stern  canceled the
first two weeks of the season, which was scheduled to begin Nov.
1. The league and the players union started mediated talks on
Oct. 18 to end the lockout.  The two sides are discussing how to split money from a
league that had about $4.3 billion in revenue last season and
what type of system the league will operate under. Stern has
said the league’s 30 teams collectively lost at least
$300 million in each of the past three seasons.  In its opposition to the union’s request to dismiss the
lawsuit, also filed yesterday, lawyers for the NBA said their
case isn’t based on hypothetical future acts but on the actual
“antitrust legality of the NBA’s ongoing act, its player
lockout.”  The NBA alleges that the union has threatened on more than
two dozen occasions to give up its role as the exclusive
bargaining representative of league players.  So-called decertification of the union can be a precursor
to individual antitrust claims against the league, such as those
filed by National Football League players after their labor
talks broke down in March.  The case is National Basketball Association v. National
Basketball Players Association, 11-cv-05369, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  