-- 
Nigeria ‘Vulnerable’ to Oil Price Fluctuations, Sanusi Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-10-19T17:44:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/nigeria-vulnerable-to-oil-price-fluctuations-sanusi-says-1-.html
Nigerian government finances
“remain highly vulnerable” to oil price fluctuations and
 Africa ’s top oil producer is likely to be affected by a
worsening of global economic conditions, central bank Governor
Lamido Sanusi said.  “There will be an impact, but it will be nothing compared
to the first time,” Sanusi said today at a conference in Abuja,
the capital, referring to the impact of the 2008 financial
crisis.  Nigeria  currently pumps more than two million barrels of
oil a day, compared with the situation in 2008 when an
insurgency in the oil-producing Niger delta cut output by half,
Sanusi said, adding that increased production will deflect some
of the impact of decline in demand.  Sub-Saharan Africa’s second-biggest economy depends on
crude oil exports for more than 95 percent of its foreign income
and 80 percent of all government revenue, according to the
 Finance Ministry . Nigeria’s 4.5 trillion budget for this year is
based on an oil price of $75 a barrel.  Nigeria is facing serious fiscal liquidity pressures on
account of excessive  government spending  and might benefit from
a decline in revenue if it leads to a cut in expenditure, Sanusi
said.  The central bank of Africa’s most populous country of more
than 150 million people increased its benchmark rate by 275
basis points on Oct. 10 to 12 percent, the highest level since
the rate was introduced in 2007, in an attempt to rein in
foreign-currency demand and stabilize the  exchange rate .  Mounting demand for dollars to fund imports had pushed the
naira outside a 3 percentage-point band above 150 per dollar
targeted by the central bank and to a record low in interbank
trading.  “We should find the naira settling a bit stronger” with
the MPC measure, Sanusi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  