-- 
Nordea Rules Out Recapitalization as European Issue Glut Looms

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-10-20T10:39:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/nordea-rules-out-recapitalization-amid-glut.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest Nordic
lender, won’t tap the markets for more capital as European
lenders ready themselves for a round of recapitalization, Chief
Executive Office Christian Clausen said.  “Certainly, in Nordea we don’t need more capital,”
Clausen said in an interview in Stockholm yesterday, after
delivering third-quarter results that missed analysts’ estimates
by 25 percent.  The bank, which is shedding 2,000 jobs to adjust to a
deteriorating economic outlook in Europe, said profit last
quarter suffered because of “market turmoil.” While Nordea
doesn’t hold any bonds of the euro area’s peripheral nations,
the spread of the region’s debt crisis shows efforts to boost
capital buffers need to be coordinated across borders and
continents, Clausen said.  Banks in  Europe  and the U.S. need to converge around a core
Tier 1 capital ratio -- a measure of financial strength -- of
about 10 percent, he said. Nordea yesterday reported capital by
that measure of 9.2 percent in the third quarter.  “Everybody understands that if we don’t calibrate this
right it will be all wrong, so we have to find the same
levels,” Clausen said. “If you don’t calibrate, you will again
get systemic risk in the system.”  Capital Demands  The European Union may require banks in the region to
increase core capital ratios to 9 percent of their risk-weighted
assets, according to a person with knowledge of the plans. The
deadline for meeting the increased capital levels may be the
middle of next year, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
told a closed parliamentary committee yesterday, said two
lawmakers who attended the meeting. That’s almost seven years
ahead of the target set by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision .  Europe’s banks may need to raise 150 billion euros ($208
billion) to 230 billion euros to meet additional  capital
requirements ,  Kian Abouhossein , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst
in  London , wrote in an Oct. 1 note.  Sweden’s government has told lenders to target  capital
ratios  as high as 12 percent by 2013. Still, Finance Minister
Anders Borg signaled yesterday he may be backing down from the
target as the threat of a European banking crisis stresses
financial markets.  “We want to eventually continue to gradually sharpen
demands on Swedish banks both when it comes to liquidity and own
capital,” Borg said yesterday. “We have a very responsible
attitude that we also intend to implement in a cautious and
moderate way.”  ‘Relatively Healthy’  Sweden is home to four of the Nordic region’s six largest
banks, and the country’s lenders have combined balance sheets
four times the size of the nation’s economy. Nordea is 13.5
percent owned by the Swedish state, which has earmarked the bank
for divestment over the coming years.  “Nordea’s in a relatively healthy position in terms of
capital compared to its European rivals,” said Fridtjof Berents, an analyst at Oslo-based Arctic Securities ASA. “Given
the bank’s limited exposure to the sovereign debt crisis, I
don’t expect them to need more following an updated European
Banking Authority stress test.”  The bank passed the EBA’s July test with a 9.5 percent
ratio, almost twice the minimum requirement of 5 percent.
Another round of exams would help European leaders identify
capital needs.  Swedish Backing  Banks that can’t raise cash through share sales would be
required to take capital from their governments or the EU and
may face curbs on paying bonuses and dividends, European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  said Oct. 12. European leaders
will consider the plans at a meeting in Brussels Oct. 23.  Nordea shares rose 0.7 percent to 56.85 kronor as of 12:32
p.m. in Stockholm, outperforming the 46-member Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index, which was down 1 percent.
Swedish financials gained 0.2 percent.  Sweden is ready to back a broader European bank rescue plan
if euro area leaders are unable to devise a workable model, Borg
said yesterday.  “The main scenario is that it is the euro countries that
deal with this through the European Financial Stability
Facility,” he said. “If some type of European backstop is
needed, then it needs to come with tough conditions. We then
have to be certain that taxpayers in all cases get their money
back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 