-- 
Northern Trust’s Profit Rises 9.5% as Acquisitions Offset Market Declines

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-10-19T12:42:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/northern-trust-s-profit-rises-9-5-as-acquisitions-offset-market-declines.html
Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , the third-
largest independent U.S. custody bank, said third-quarter profit
rose 9.5 percent as acquisitions boosted assets, offsetting
market declines and record-low  interest rates .  Net income increased to $170.4 million, or 70 cents a
share, from $155.6 million, or 64 cents, a year earlier, the
Chicago-based company said today in a statement. Excluding
certain items, 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated
average earnings of 69 cents a share.  “The acquisitions they made between now and a year ago
helped revenue and could help earnings,”  Gerard Cassidy , an
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  Portland ,  Maine , said in an
interview before results were announced.  Northern Trust has lagged behind rivals Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. and  Boston ’s  State Street Corp. (STT)  in cutting costs
and making acquisitions that can offset the impact of low
interest rates, which reduce the returns custody banks earn on
investments and from managing money-market funds. The U.S.
Federal Reserve has held its benchmark lending rate at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008 in an attempt to stimulate
lending and economic growth.  Revenue rose 9 percent to $971.5 million, driven by a 7
percent jump in custody fees as the assets Northern Trust
oversees increased 7 percent to $4.17 trillion. The amount of
money the company manages for investors dropped 2 percent to
$644 million. Non-interest expenses climbed 13 percent to $701
million as compensation rose 14 percent.  Fees Waived  Fee waivers by money-market mutual funds more than doubled
from a year earlier to $29.1 million in the three months ended
Sept. 30. Money funds, faced with low yields and a shrunken
supply of available securities, have been forced to cut fees to
keep customer returns above zero.  The company made three takeovers in the past year,
including the purchase of Bank of Ireland Plc’s securities-
servicing unit in June for 60 million euro ($82.4 million), and
the $100 million acquisition of Chicago-based hedge-fund asset
servicer Omnium LLC from Citadel LLC in July. The purchases
helped soften the impact of the 8 percent decline in the MSCI AC
World Index of global stocks in the year ended Sept. 30.  “New business, across the company, was excellent,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Frederick H. Waddell said
in the statement.  BNY Mellon  BNY Mellon, the largest custodian, said today its third-
quarter net income rose 4.7 percent to $651 million. Boston’s
State Street said yesterday third-quarter net income on an
operating basis rose 11 percent to $476 million.  Results for Northern Trust were announced before the start
of regular U.S. trading. The shares declined 30 percent this
year through yesterday, while the 19-company  Standard & Poor’s 
index of asset managers and custody banks fell 24 percent.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors, including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . Northern Trust also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  (Northern Trust is scheduled to hold a conference call for
investors at noon New York time. The call can be accessed at
 http://www.northerntrust/financialreleases .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  