-- 
Norway Keeps Rate Unchanged, Abandons Plan to Raise in 2011

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-10-19T14:23:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/norway-central-bank-keeps-rate-unchanged-scales-back-tightening.html
Norway’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged and signaled it won’t raise
until the second half of next year on concern that a weaker
global economy will hurt exports and sap growth.  The overnight deposit rate was kept at 2.25 percent for a
fourth meeting, the Oslo-based bank said, as was forecast by 21
of the 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The rate will
probably not be raised until after June 2012, the bank said.  “If the turbulence abroad intensifies and the outlook for
growth and inflation weakens further, the key policy rate may be
reduced,” Governor Oeystein Olsen said in the statement. “If
there are prospects for higher growth and inflation, the key
rate may rise earlier.”  Norwegian policy makers need to protect the economy from
the fallout of  Europe ’s debt crisis without fueling domestic
credit growth as rates stay close to crisis lows. The bank has
signaled it wants policy to track Europe as more than 60 percent
of Norway’s exports go to the European Union. Euro area leaders
have so far failed to contain the debt crisis, forcing the
 European Central Bank  to shelve tightening and resume bond
purchases.  A Probability  The forecast signals unchanged rates for “about a year,”
Olsen said in an interview after today’s decision. “There’s
only some probability for an interest rate increase during next
fall. We haven’t signaled that it will increase 100 percent.”  The krone weakened 0.1 percent to 7.7234 per euro as of
4:08 p.m. in Oslo. It gained 0.2 percent to 5.599 to the dollar.
 Norway ’s two-year yield was little changed at 1.85 percent.  The bank cut its forecast for growth this year in the
mainland economy, which excludes oil production and shipping, to
2.75 percent from 3 percent and kept its 3.75 percent estimate
for next year unchanged. Inflation will average 1.97 percent in
next year’s fourth quarter, 2.27 percent two years from now and
2.41 percent in last three months of 2014, the bank said.  “Norges Bank is too optimistic when it comes to world
growth and the time it will take to get Europe going again,”
said Kari Due-Andresen, an analyst at Svenska Handelsbanken AB
in Oslo and a former central bank economist. “We also believe
they are too optimistic about the timing and magnitude of the
inflation pick-up.”  Oil Wealth  Norway’s oil wealth, which is mostly stored in a $530
billion sovereign-wealth fund, has so far shielded it from the
worst of the debt crisis. The country is the world’s seventh-
largest oil exporter and second-largest gas exporter. Still, the
government  cut its 2011 growth forecasts  for the mainland
economy, which excludes oil, gas and shipping, to 2.8 percent
from a May forecast of 3.2 percent, citing a deteriorating
global outlook. It expects output to grow 3.1 percent next year.  The central bank, which bases policy decisions on non-oil
economic and inflation trends, raised rates in May. Norway’s oil
wealth and the prospect earlier in the year of interest rate
increases helped fuel krone gains, sending the currency to an
eight-year high versus the euro on Sept. 8. The bank needs to
ensure continued low rates don’t fuel what the financial
regulator has warned may become a housing bubble.  Norway’s Financial Supervisory Authority last month
recommended tightening mortgage lending standards by reducing
loan sizes relative to property values.  House prices  rose an
annual 9.7 percent last month, according to Norway’s Real Estate
Brokers Association. Household credit rose an annual 7.2 percent
in August, near a 2 1/2-year high,  Statistics Norway  said.  Consumer price growth has remained below the central bank’s
2.5 percent target since 2009. Norway’s underlying inflation
rate, adjusted for taxes, fees and energy prices, climbed to 1.2
percent in September from 0.8 percent the previous month.
Registered unemployment dropped to 2.5 percent in September from
2.7 percent in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  