-- 
Occidental’s Crude Output May Fall on Scarce California Permits

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-10-19T20:18:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/occidental-s-oil-output-may-decline-on-delayed-california-drilling-permits.html
Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) ’s oil and
natural-gas output may fall this year for the first time since
2005 because it can’t get the permits it needs for new drilling
projects in California.  Occidental, the biggest onshore oil producer in the
continental U.S., is being hurt by a slowdown in approvals in
the state, clouding an optimistic forecast from Chief Executive
Officer Steve Chazen five months ago.  California’s Division of Oil, Gas and Geothermal Resources
has granted 14 permits essential to new drilling projects this
year out of 199 applications received, compared with 27 out of
100 in 2010 and 37 out of 52 the year before that, state figures
show.  “The level of frustration is extremely high,” Catherine H. Reheis-Boyd, president of the Western States Petroleum
Association, a Sacramento-based trade group, said in a telephone
interview.  Permit delays in California, which has a 12.1 percent
unemployment rate, have held up $1 billion in investment and
more than 6,000 jobs, according to a  report  published earlier
this year by the  Los Angeles  County Economic Development
Corporation, a business group that supports more drilling.  “Growth from California this year hasn’t ramped up as
much as we thought it would,”  Philip Weiss , an analyst at
Argus Research Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview
today.  Bigger Than Yosemite  Occidental, based in Los Angeles, owns about 1,367 square
miles (354,000 hectares) of land in the Monterey Shale, an area
larger than the state’s Yosemite National Park and more than any
other  oil company . Occidental’s California holdings are worth an
estimated $55 a share,  Paul Sankey , a New York-based analyst
with Deutsche Bank AG, said in a July 26 note.  The company’s global oil and gas output, hurt by  Middle
East  and North African unrest, may decline 2 percent this year
to the equivalent of 730,000 barrels a day, the first time it
has fallen since 2005, Thomas Driscoll, a New York-based analyst
with Barclays Plc, said in a July 27 note to clients.  “ California  is the biggest story the company has going
right now,” Jacques Rousseau, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets , said in a phone interview. “It could really move the
needle on this company, but people are having a hard time
figuring out what’s going on.”  The U.S. Energy Information Administration in August
estimated that the Monterey shale formation in  Southern
California  holds more than 15 billion barrels of oil, or about
two years’ worth of U.S. consumption.  Underground Injections  A separate formation in Kern County near Bakersfield that
Occidental discovered in 2009 may hold as much as 10 billion
barrels of oil, Doug Leggate, an analyst at Bank of America
Corp., said in an April 29 note to clients.  The permits being sought would allow the injection of
steam, water and chemicals underground, a first step in the
process of coaxing crude from the state’s tar-like deposits,
said Rock Zierman, executive director of the California
Independent Petroleum Association in  Sacramento .  Reheis-Boyd and Zierman said the permit slowdown began with
the appointment of Elena Miller, who took over as oil and gas
supervisor of the Division of Oil, Gas and Geothermal Resources
in September 2009.  Miller, a former lawyer for the California prison system
appointed by Republican Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  as an
adviser to the California Energy Commission, has skipped
informal meetings with industry officials that were attended by
her predecessors, Zierman and Reheis-Boyd said. Miller has said
that California can’t legally grant the types of permits
approved in the past, they said.  ‘Inherent Risks’  Miller declined to respond to those allegations. A major
cause for permit delays is incomplete applications from
companies, she said in an e-mail.  “There are inherent risks involved with underground
injection,” Miller said. The state recognizes the importance of
energy production to California’s economy, she said, and it is
“working with oil and gas operators to permit projects.”  New recommendations from the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency are part of the tussle. The EPA regional office reviewed
California’s permit process in the spring of 2010 and suggested
that several drilling rules be strengthened. The agency, which
regulates drilling under the Safe Drinking Water Act and the
Clean Water Act, delegates this authority to California.  Definition of Freshwater  The EPA recommended a stricter definition of freshwater in
aquifers, better well construction, improved testing of the
maximum pressure a formation can withstand and better monitoring
of nearby wells to ensure injected fluids don’t migrate into
drinking water, said David Albright, manager of the groundwater
office in EPA’s Region 9 in  San Francisco .  Industry criticism of the pace of approvals has been “more
anecdotal and rhetorical than factual,” Alexis Strauss,
director of the water division at EPA’s Region 9, which includes
California, said in an interview.  “These regulations are designed to protect underground
sources of drinking water while acknowledging that this very
important economic activity is under way,” Strauss said.
“We’re all very cognizant of what potential the Monterey Shale
has to offer.”  Melissa Schoeb, a spokeswoman for Occidental, declined to
comment on the company’s dealings with California regulators and
said operations in the state will be discussed in a conference
call after earnings are released Oct. 27.  Rig Count  Occidental has 26 rigs operating in the state, more than
double any other company. The next-highest rig count is 11, held
by Aera Energy LLC, a jointly held subsidiary of  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Phil McPherson, an analyst with
Global Hunter Securities LLC, said in a Sept. 9 note.  Venoco Inc. (VQ)  has less than a fourth of the land in the
resource-rich area, followed by  Plains Exploration & Production
Co. (PXP) ,  National Fuel Gas Co. (NFG)  and  Berry Petroleum Co. (BRY)   Occidental rose to an all-time high of $115.74 on May 2,
days after Chazen said on a conference call that the company
planned to increase drilling in California. Three months later,
Chazen told analysts the state’s permit process had become
“non-transparent,” and that he couldn’t forecast how many more
rigs the company would install there in 2012.  ‘Just Takes Longer’  “We’re making physical progress where we can, and I think
the state will come around,” he said on a July 26 conference
call. “It just takes longer, that’s all.”  Since May 2, Occidental has fallen 27 percent,
underperforming peers. The shares fell 1.2 percent to $83.95 at
the close in  New York .  Occidental’s North American production is expected to grow
this year, including in California, where output rose to 78,000
barrels a day in the second quarter from 75,000 a year earlier,
according to the company. The California increase won’t be
enough to make up for a global decline in Occidental’s Middle
East and North African production, which fell 12 percent in the
second quarter, in part because of a war in  Libya .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  