-- 
Crude Oil Falls on European Divisions, Fed’s Report of ‘Modest’ Growth

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-10-19T20:11:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/oil-fluctuates-before-forecast-increase-in-u-s-supply-european-summit.html
Crude oil fell from a one-month high
after a split emerged between France and  Germany  on proposals to
increase the European bailout fund and the  Federal Reserve 
described the pace of U.S. economic growth as “modest.”  Futures dropped 2.5 percent as euro-area leaders assembled
in Frankfurt seeking to narrow divisions before a summit. The
Fed said in its Beige Book survey that companies reported more
doubt about the strength of the recovery. U.S. fuel use declined
2.2 percent to 18.3 million barrels a day last week, the least
since May, the Energy Department said today.  “Markets are being hurt by questions about European plans
to combat the debt crisis and the release of the Beige Book,”
said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in
 Chicago . “The market is incredibly fickle right now. It takes
very little to get it to reverse direction.”  Crude oil for November delivery fell $2.23 to settle at
$86.11 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract touched $89.51 earlier today, the highest intraday
level since Sept. 16. Futures are down 5.8 percent this year.  Brent oil for December settlement decreased $2.76, or 2.5
percent, to end the session at $108.39 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The spread between the
December Brent and Nymex crude contracts narrowed to $22.25 from
a record high of $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report that an improving
economic outlook in  Europe  and declining crude supplies may
present “a real upside risk” to Brent oil contracts traded in
 London . The backwardation in Brent contracts, where prices for
soonest delivery are higher than those for later months, creates
an incentive to draw from inventories, Goldman Sachs said.  Franco-German Split  A Franco-German split on the role of the  European Central
Bank  in leveraging the euro bailout fund emerged at an event in
Frankfurt today to mark the conclusion of Jean-Claude Trichet’s
term as the ECB’s president. The disagreements among policy
makers came as banks lobbied against forced recapitalization and
deeper writedowns on Greek debt.  As French media reported his wife was giving birth to his
first daughter, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  left Paris to
meet German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , Trichet and International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  at the event
at the  Frankfurt  Opera House, according to a spokesman for
Sarkozy.  European Union leaders are scheduled to meet on Oct. 23 in
Brussels to discuss ways to combat the credit crisis.  “We continue to handicap what will come out of the meeting
next week,” said  Chip Hodge , who oversees a $9 billion natural-
resource bond portfolio as senior managing director at Manulife
Asset Management, formerly MFC Global, in  Boston .  Regional Banks  The Fed’s regional banks in Atlanta, New York, Minneapolis
and Dallas said growth in their regions was modest, while
Chicago said the economy had “picked up some” and Philadelphia
described conditions as “mixed, with more positive sectors than
negative ones compared with the previous” report. The Richmond
Fed said conditions were “weak or weakening in most sectors.”  The  Beige Book  survey, released two weeks before each
policy meeting, is based on information gathered by officials at
the Fed’s 12 regional banks. Today’s report covers information
collected on or before Oct. 7 and was compiled by staff at the
Chicago Fed.  “The Beige Book showed that the economy is limping
along,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics,
an energy advisory company in Austin,  Texas . “We’re in a period
of very tepid, soft growth.”  U.S. Stockpiles  Prices rose to a one-month high earlier when the Energy
Department reported that U.S. crude and fuel stockpiles dropped
last week. Supplies of crude oil fell 4.73 million barrels to
332.9 million, the lowest level since February 2010. Inventories
were forecast to climb 2 million barrels, according to the
median of 13 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline supplies declined 3.32 million barrels to 206.3
million last week, the lowest level since May, the report
showed. A 1.5 million-barrel drop was forecast, according to the
median of 13 analyst projections in the Bloomberg News survey.  Consumption of gasoline dropped 4.6 percent to 8.6 million
barrels a day, the lowest level since February, the report
showed. The decline was the largest since December.  “Today’s report makes it clear that demand is very weak,”
Flynn said.  Gasoline for November delivery decreased 7.54 cents, or 2.7
percent, to $2.6715 a gallon in  New York .  Inventories of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, decreased 4.27 million barrels to 149.7
million, the biggest drop since November, the department said.
Analysts projected a 1.5 million-barrel decline.  “There can be a lot of noise when you look at the week-to-
week numbers,” Hodge said. “Until we have a clearer idea of
where we are going on the economic front, the market will move
back and forth in reaction to emotions.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 578,211
contracts as of 3:26 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 667,047
contracts yesterday. Open interest was 1.43 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  