-- 
Oil Trades Near Highest Price in a Month as Goldman Cites ‘Upside Risk’

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-10-19T12:22:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/oil-trades-near-highest-in-a-month-as-goldman-sees-upside-risk-.html
Oil traded near the highest price in
more than a month in  New York  after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
predicted “upside” potential, amid signs U.S. crude stockpiles
are increasing less rapidly than previously forecast.  Futures were little changed after advancing 2.3 percent
yesterday. Energy Department data today may show that supplies
climbed 2 million barrels. Yesterday’s report by the industry-
funded  American Petroleum Institute  indicated they dropped for a
third week. Goldman Sachs said an improving economic outlook in
Europe and declining crude supplies may present “a real upside
risk” to Brent prices.  “The market certainly drew some support from pronounced
crude and product draws in the API data, as well as more
optimism creeping back in about the euro-zone bailout,” said
 Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London, who
predicts prices will end the year little changed from current
levels. “ Libya  will come back on line, but not especially fast,
and geopolitical risks surrounding  Iran  will give support.”  Crude for November delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was at $88.29 a barrel, down 5 cents, at 1:19 p.m.
 London  time. The contract yesterday closed at $88.34, the
highest settlement since Sept. 15. The more-actively traded
December contract was down 6 cents at $88.47. Front-month prices
are down 3.4 percent this year.  Brent oil for December settlement was at $110.73 a barrel,
down 42 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Brent ‘Upside Risk’  Brent futures, which dropped 12 percent in London trading
in August and September, may fall “too low” because of
“uncertainty” over the economy, Goldman Sachs said in a
report. The so-called backwardation in Brent contracts, where
prices for soonest delivery are higher than those for later
months, creates an incentive to draw from inventories, Goldman
Sachs said.  “Persistent uncertainty over  Europe  would likely continue
to increase the upside risk to Brent crude oil prices,”  David Greely , a managing director for Goldman Sachs based in New York,
said in the report. “Destocking makes the market increasingly
vulnerable to upside demand surprises or supply shortfalls.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday a European
Union summit on Oct. 23 will be an “important step” though not
the final one to solve the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  U.S. crude supplies fell 3.1 million barrels last week, the
API said yesterday. The Energy Department’s figures today were
forecast to show they climbed a second week, based on the median
of 13 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Product Stockpiles Decline  Gasoline inventories dropped 1.6 million barrels, according
to API data. They were forecast to slip 1.5 million barrels in
the Bloomberg survey. Distillate stockpiles, including heating
oil and diesel, decreased 2.2 million barrels compared with an
estimate for a 1.5 million decline.  The industry-funded API collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  “The market’s just looking for some sort of price
direction,” said  David Lennox , a resource analyst at Fat
Prophets in Sydney who predicts prices will trade at $80 to $90
a barrel. “Traders aren’t willing to push prices higher, given
the weak economic outlook in the U.S. and what’s happening in
Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  