-- 
Oil-Price Risks Ease on Economic Decline, Libya Output, IEA Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-10-19T10:36:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/oil-price-risks-ease-on-economic-decline-libya-output-iea-says.html
Jumps in  oil prices , which led some
countries to withdraw crude from stockpiles earlier this year,
are less likely as economic growth slows and Libyan fields
resume output, said  David Fyfe , the head of the  International
Energy Agency 's oil-industry and markets division.  “There is not the same potential for economically damaging
spikes in price in the fourth quarter that we saw in the third
quarter,” he told reporters today during the agency’s annual
ministerial meeting in Paris.  Member states of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting 
Countries pumped less oil in September as  Saudi Arabia  cut its
production from a 30-year high in August and Nigeria’s output
was hindered by sabotage attacks, the IEA said earlier this
month. Oil traded near the highest price in more than a month
today after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cited “upside” potential,
countering forecasts for rising U.S. inventories.  “There is a market in the fourth quarter through 2012 for
a bit more than OPEC is currently producing,” Fyfe said.
“Prices remain at a pretty elevated level.”  Crude for November delivery was at $88.67 a barrel, up 0.4
percent, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  at 11:02 a.m. London time. Brent oil for December
settlement was at $111.09 a barrel, down 0.05 percent, on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  OPEC Production  Demand for crude from OPEC is about 30.6 million barrels a
day, which is closer to OPEC production than when IEA members
voted earlier this year to release stocks in a bid to counter
higher prices, Fyfe said.  Growth in demand of about 1 million barrels a day through
2016 “is a big ask” for  oil companies  and will need large
projects to come onstream and continued investment, even in a
potential economic decline, he said.  Libyan output could rise to about 1 million barrels a day
by the end of next year while demand growth could “largely be
wiped out next year” should there be a double dip recession,
Fyfe said. “The risks of further price spikes has been
mitigated for the time being.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  