-- 
Tokyo’s Workers Get Less Sleep Than U.S., Asian Counterparts

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 
2011-10-19T08:29:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/tokyo-s-workers-get-less-sleep-than-counterparts-in-u-s-europe.html
Tokyo office workers slept at least
30 minutes less than their counterparts in  New York , Paris,
 Shanghai  and  Stockholm  each night, averaging six hours, or 14
percent less than the recommended minimum, a study said.  Workers in Tokyo went to bed at 12:18 a.m. on average,
according to the joint study by  Stanford University  and
Ajinomoto Co., a Japanese foodmaker that sells a sleep
supplement called Glyna. The U.S.  National Sleep Foundation 
recommends seven to nine hours a night.  The study was presented at a meeting of the World Sleep
Federation in Kyoto today along with other research that
highlighted sleep deprivation among Japanese. A separate study
presented at the forum found an “extremely serious” lack of
sleep among middle-school students in Japan.  “Most of the people in  Tokyo  are sleep-deprived,” said
Makoto Bannai, a senior researcher at Ajinomoto, which sponsored
the study. “They need to know better sleep can bring more
efficiency to daily activities.”  The office-worker study found that people in Tokyo got 36
minutes less sleep than New Yorkers and 54 less than Parisians.
Only 23 percent of Japanese got more than seven hours of sleep,
it said.  The study surveyed 180 men and women from each of the five
cities, who were 30 to 60 years old. They attributed their sleep
trouble to work and personal stress, outdoor noise and the
weather, among other reasons.  A study presented by Kyoto Prefectural University found
that Japanese middle-school students slept an average of 6.9
hours a night. Teens need more than nine hours a night to
function best, according to the Arlington, Virginia-based
National Sleep Foundation.  The research involved 1,545 middle school students who were
12 to 15 years old at 13 public schools in Kyoto, western
 Japan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ; 