-- 
Hong Kong Elevated Rental Is ‘Price for Success,’ Tsang Says

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-10-19T09:51:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/hong-kong-s-elevated-rental-is-price-for-success-tsang-says.html
Hong Kong’s elevated rental costs
are “unfortunately the price we pay for success,” Chief
Executive Donald Tsang said, amid surging  home prices  that have
stoked social tensions.  When the “economy’s doing well, the rental inevitably
would be high,” Tsang said in a program broadcast by  Radio
Television Hong Kong  today. “Similar things happen in  New York ,
 London , or other similar successful cities. Provided people can
have reasonable income to pay for the rent, and provided the
business has generally sufficient profits to pay for the rental,
we will continue to be very competitive.”  The city’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace since
the global financial crisis in 2008, on rising food and rental
costs. Hong Kong is ranked as the world’s costliest office
market by CB Richard Ellis Group Inc., while it is the most
expensive place to buy a home, according to Savills Plc.  “High rental costs may drive foreign business investment
away,” said Raymond Yeung, an economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “While relocation is
not an option for local residents, the elevated rents may
intensify social discontent.”  Private housing rentals rose 1 percent last month from
August to a record HK$20.60 ($2.65) per square foot, Centaline
Property Agency, the city’s biggest closely held real estate
broker, said today in a release, citing a survey of 85 major
home estates.  Hong Kong’s consumer prices excluding distortions from
government subsidies rose 6.3 percent in August from a year
earlier. Home prices have jumped more than 70 percent since the
start of 2009, prompting Tsang last week to revive a government-
subsidized housing program that aims to soothe public anger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Lui at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net  