-- 
Longest Bonds Sold Since 1984 Reap Record A$3.25 Billion: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-10-20T06:38:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/longest-bonds-since-1984-for-sale-just-as-yields-climb-australia-credit.html
Australia sold its longest-maturity
government bond since 1984 with investors purchasing more than
twice as much as in any previous offering and the government
locked in yields at about a 2 1/2-year low.  The A$3.25 billion ($3.3 billion) of bonds sold was the
largest amount on record, data from the Australian Office of
Financial Management showed and excluded A$10 million taken up
by the  Reserve Bank . The 4.75 percent note maturing April 21,
2027, was priced to yield 4.88 percent, the AOFM said today in a
statement. Similar U.S. Treasuries yield 2.7 percent.  “In our experience, when bonds get above A$3 billion they
no longer have an issue premium where they stay cheap for a
little while,” said Damien McColough, head of fixed-income
research at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney. “Clearly there’s
been good demand for the issue.”  While Australian 10-year yields have risen about half a
percentage point since Oct. 4, they are still more than a
percentage point below the past decade’s average of 5.52
percent, as investors including life insurers seek longer-
maturity debt to match investments to future obligations.
Investors are demanding higher payments as  Australia ’s economy
shows signs of strengthening.  Syndicated Sale  The 2027 bond is the first non-indexed security to be sold
through a group of banks rather than at auction, the Canberra-
based AOFM said yesterday. There will be no further issuance of
the bond until at least February 2012, it said.  Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG managed the
offering, while Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,
Commonwealth Bank and Westpac assisted them, the AOFM said.  “The sale received some very strong support, predominantly
from domestic accounts, with a good mix of investor type,” said
James Arnold, Sydney-based director of capital markets
origination at Citigroup.  The 2027 note is the only sovereign security to yield more
than the Reserve Bank of Australia’s 4.75 percent benchmark
rate, the developed world’s highest. All securities out to the
2023 note, which was yielding 4.57 percent today, have had rates
less than the benchmark since Aug. 9.  Australian government debt lost 0.8 percent this month,
paring the gains that made the securities the best performers
among advanced economies in the 12 months ended Sept. 30. The
bonds returned 9.6 percent over the past four quarters,
surpassing all 25 other markets tracked by Bloomberg/EFFAS
indexes.  Foreign Demand  “Yields in the Australian market have risen quite a lot in
October and the cheapening up in price is something that will
make it easier to attract foreign demand,” Adam Donaldson, head
of debt research at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s
largest lender, said yesterday. “The challenge for an issuer at
the moment is that the investor base is wary of bonds being too
expensive.”  Investors including life insurance companies, both in
Australia and overseas, will have an “appetite” for bonds of
longer maturities, Donaldson said. The debt may also lure money
managers seeking alternatives to U.S. Treasuries, he said.
Australian 10-year notes yield 2.28 percentage points more than
U.S. government notes of similar maturity, up from the low this
year of 1.92 percentage points in August.  Offshore investors held 75 percent of Australia’s bonds as
of June 30, data from the central bank and statistics bureau
show. Turnover in government bonds from overseas central banks
rose to more than A$56 billion in the 12 months ended June 30,
from A$5.8 billion two years earlier, the 2011 Australian
Financial Markets Report showed Oct. 5.  Long-Term Investors  “Long-term investors will welcome” the Australian bond,
said Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $78.2
billion in  Tokyo  as chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., a unit of  Japan ’s biggest publicly traded bank.
“It offers investors a chance to lock in a longer-term
investment and will help the government compete with the U.S.,
 Germany  and Japan for funds.”  Shimomura, who spoke before the sale, said he would
consider buying the security once it starts trading in the
secondary market.  The U.S.’s longest bond matures in August 2041, while
Germany has a July 2042 security and Japan has a March 2051
issue.  Corporate Benchmark  The new bond will help to create a long-term pricing
benchmark for the corporate  bond market  and groups looking to
issue long-term infrastructure bonds, Australia’s Treasury said
in a statement yesterday. It will also provide a safe investment
for annuities, according to the statement.  Corporate bond risk rose today as a Franco-German split on
the role of the  European Central Bank  in leveraging the euro
bailout fund emerged yesterday. Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker, who chairs the group of euro-area finance
ministers, indicated an impromptu meeting of European leaders in
 Frankfurt  last night failed to resolve differences.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index increased 4.5 basis
points to 187.5 basis points as of 11:55 a.m. in Sydney,
according to Deutsche Bank AG. That’s on course for the biggest
daily gain since Oct. 4, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  1984 Sale  The December 1984 sale of A$251 million of 13 percent
securities that matured Dec. 15, 2000, had a weighted average
yield of 13.59 percent at issue, AOFM data show. Investors on
average bid for 2.37 times the amount of bonds offered.  The so-called bid-to-cover ratio declined to 2.79 at the
most-recent sale of 2023 bonds on Aug. 3, from 3.44 at the
previous auction on July 13, according to the AOFM.  Benchmark 10-year government bond yields were at 4.43
percent after falling below 4 percent on Oct. 4, the least since
January 2009. The rate has risen 21 basis points since Sept. 30,
threatening to snap a record stretch of monthly declines.  Yields have fallen for nine straight months, the longest
stretch since at least 1978, amid signs Australia’s economy can
withstand turmoil in  Europe  as  China  continues to demand its
commodities including  iron ore  and coal.  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, traded at $1.0174 at 5:30 p.m. in Sydney and reached
$1.1081 on July 27, the strongest since it was freely floated in
1983.  Trade, Unemployment  The nation’s exports surged to A$28.4 billion in August on
coal shipments, and the A$3.1 billion trade surplus was the
second-widest on record, the Bureau of Statistics said Oct. 4.
The  unemployment rate  declined last month for the first time
since March as employers added double the workers economists
forecast, a report showed Oct. 13.  Futures contracts showed bets the cash rate will be at 4.32
percent by December in trading today, after they indicated 4.35
percent on Oct. 17, the highest expectation since Aug. 2. They
signaled rates as low as 3.47 percent on Aug. 9.  The gap between yields on Australian government bonds and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors estimate consumer prices
will rise an average of 2.48 percent for the next five years.
The lowest estimate this year was 2.37 percent on Oct. 4.  “Longer-dated bonds would be particularly attractive to
overseas investors both for outright yield and the fact that
these bonds would line up with other developed markets such as
the U.S. and U.K. for people with longer-dated liabilities,”
 Tony Morriss , head of interest-rates research in Sydney at ANZ
Bank, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  