-- 
Oracle Trial With Google Over Java Patents Is Postponed

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n
-- 
2011-10-19T20:50:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/oracle-trial-with-google-over-java-patents-may-be-delayed-u-s-judge-says.html
A judge postponed an Oct. 31 trial
over  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s claims that Google Inc.’s Android software
infringed patents on the Java programming language.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup in  San Francisco  vacated
the scheduled trial date, saying it conflicts with a criminal
gang case in his courtroom that will continue through January.
He asked lawyers for Oracle and Google to consent to a trial
before a magistrate judge. If they don’t agree, Alsup said he’s
considering “swapping the case to another federal judge,” and
the companies will have no right to object.  “I have not been so overworked in 37 years of professional
life,” Alsup said. The hearing concluded today with no new
trial date scheduled.  Oracle is seeking at least $1 billion in damages from the
operator of the world’s largest search engine. Oracle, based in
 Redwood City ,  California , accuses Google of infringing its Java
patents and copyrights in the Android operating system, now
running on more than 150 million mobile devices.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, has denied the
claims.  The judge gave the lawyers a chance today to argue whether
the copyright and patent claims in the case should be split into
two trials. Alsup said he favors having the copyright issues
decided in the first trial.  ‘A Settlement’  “Maybe the jury would say there is no liability, then
there may be a settlement,” he said. “Maybe they would say
there is a huge liability and there might be a settlement. I’m
seeking some formula like that.”  The judge said an expert he appointed to review damages
calculations by both sides should submit his initial report on
Nov. 14, to be followed by a more in-depth independent analysis
three months from today.  Alsup made no decision today on Google’s bid to exclude as
evidence an employee’s e-mail saying the company should
negotiate a license for Java.  Google said the e-mail was mistakenly provided to Oracle
during pre-trial document exchanges and should be kept secret
under a law protecting communications between attorneys and
their clients.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  