-- 
Morgan Stanley Beats Estimates on Accounting Gain, Trading

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-10-19T22:08:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/morgan-stanley-beats-profit-estimates.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s
largest brokerage, reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates
on a $3.4 billion accounting gain and higher revenue from stock
trading.  Net income was $2.2 billion, or $1.15 a share, compared
with $131 million, or a loss of 7 cents a share after preferred
dividends, a year earlier, the New York-based company said today
in a statement. Earnings beat the 30-cent average estimate of 25
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Morgan Stanley’s 20 percent gain in year-over-year
equities-trading revenue was the biggest among the largest U.S.
banks, excluding the accounting benefit. Fixed-income fell 17
percent. Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 53, is trying to
stem a 39 percent decline in the firm’s shares this year through
yesterday that left the  stock trading  at a level last seen
during the financial crisis in January 2009.  “We saw more activity on the cash equities side,
particularly in electronic trading, and the derivatives business
continued to do well,” Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said
in an interview after earnings were released. “The more
challenging part of the market was in the fixed-income market.”  Excluding the $3.4 billion accounting gain, known as debt
valuation adjustments, or DVA, profit was 3 cents a share,
compared with estimates of a 9-cent loss from Citigroup Inc.
analyst  Keith Horowitz  and a 23-cent loss from Barclays
Capital’s  Roger Freeman .  Share Performance  Shares of the company rose 1 cent to $16.64 at 4:15 p.m. in
 New York , after surging 9.1 percent yesterday.  The DVA gain stems from declines in the value of the
company’s debt, under the theory that a profit would be realized
if the debt were repurchased at a discount. Citigroup and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. each booked more than $1.5 billion of such
gains as bank credit spreads widened in the quarter.  “It is a bizarre accounting anomaly,” Gorman said in an
interview with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television. “Next
quarter, we may have $3.4 billion of negative adjustments.”  Revenue at Morgan Stanley climbed 46 percent to $9.89
billion from $6.78 billion a year earlier. Book value per share
rose to $31.29 from $30.17 at the end of June. The firm’s return
on equity from continuing operations, a measure of how well it
reinvests earnings, was 14.5 percent.  Fixed Income  Trading revenue at five of the largest U.S. banks dropped
by a combined 32 percent from the second quarter and was less
than half that of the first quarter, excluding DVA. Morgan
Stanley is “constantly reassessing” whether the current
environment represents a cyclical or secular change, Gorman said
on the conference call.  “Over the next several months, it will become clearer
which of the businesses that use a lot of balance sheet and take
on a lot of risk can be expected to generate the kind of return
that shareholders need,” Gorman said in the Bloomberg
Television interview.  Third-quarter revenue from fixed-income sales and trading,
which is run by Ken deRegt along with commodity trading co-heads
Colin Bryce and Simon Greenshields, was $3.88 billion. Excluding
DVA, fixed-income revenue was about $1.1 billion, down from $1.9
billion in the second quarter and $1.31 billion in the third
quarter of 2010. The figure compared with $2.8 billion at
JPMorgan, $2.27 billion at Citigroup and $1.43 billion at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Foreign Exchange  Interest-rates trading revenue increased from the second
quarter, and the firm saw share gains in foreign-exchange
trading, Porat said on a conference call with analysts. Credit
trading suffered from “illiquidity” in the corporate credit
and mortgage markets, she said.  Losses from hedges tied to monoline insurers reduced fixed-
income trading revenue by $284 million, Porat said. The bank
booked about $400 million of writedowns in corporate lending in
its revenue line labeled “other sales and trading,” said Mark Lake, a company spokesman.  In equities trading, headed by Ted Pick, Morgan Stanley’s
third-quarter revenue was $1.96 billion. Excluding DVA, revenue
fell 26 percent from the second quarter to $1.34 billion. That
compared with $2.18 billion at Goldman Sachs and $289 million at
Citigroup.  Morgan Stanley generated $864 million in third-quarter
revenue from  investment banking , which is overseen by Paul J. Taubman. That figure, down 14 percent from a year earlier,
included $413 million from financial advisory, $239 million from
equity underwriting and $212 million from debt underwriting.  Expense Control  “Core trading and investment-banking revenue held up
better than our muted estimates while expense control was
good,” Ed Najarian, an analyst at International Strategy &
Investment Group Inc., said today in a note to clients.  Global  wealth management , overseen by  Greg Fleming , posted
pretax income of $362 million, up from $281 million in the third
quarter of 2010. It also had $15.5 billion in net new assets.
The division’s pretax profit margin rose to 11 percent from 10
percent in the first half. Gorman has said the unit should
eventually post a pretax profit margin of more than 20 percent.  Asset management reported a pretax loss of $117 million,
compared with profit of $279 million in the previous year’s
period.  Compensation and benefits were unchanged from the year-
earlier quarter at $3.68 billion, or 37 percent of the firm’s
overall revenue. The ratio was lower than in the third quarter
of 2010, when the bank set aside 54 percent of revenue.  Morgan Stanley increased its forecast for annual savings
from an initiative to trim expenses to $1.4 billion, from $1
billion when the three-year project was announced in May.  Share Volatility  The firm’s shares fell 41 percent in the third quarter. The
stock dropped further in the first week of October to $11.58,
the lowest since December 2008.  The volatility prompted Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc., Morgan Stanley’s largest common shareholder, to release a
statement on Oct. 3 saying it’s “firmly committed” to its
strategic alliance with Morgan Stanley. Gorman sent a memo to
employees the same day, encouraging them to remain focused on
their jobs and clients instead of responding to “the rumor of
the day.”  “There has been an enormous amount of confusion and
misinformation about Morgan Stanley and others in our peer
group,” he wrote in the memo, which was obtained by Bloomberg
News. “In fragile markets, where fear triumphs over common
sense, these things are bound to happen.”  The bank repurchased about $2 billion of its own bonds as
prices fell, Porat said. The gain on the buybacks was less than
$100 million, she said.  Morgan Stanley updated figures for risks linked to  Europe 
in a presentation on its website today, saying the five
countries at the center of Europe’s debt crisis totaled $2.11
billion in exposure including hedges against losses. The risks
linked to  France  were negative $286 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  