-- 
Morgan Stanley Boosts Investment Bank Compensation Pool 8% to $5.7 Billion

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-10-19T21:25:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/morgan-stanley-boosts-investment-bank-pay-pool-to-5-74-billion.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  raised compensation
at its investment banking division 8 percent to $5.74 billion
this year through September, even as the unit’s performance
suffered amid market turmoil.  The institutional-securities unit, which handles trading,
underwriting and merger advice, generated $12.4 billion in
revenue this year through September, excluding accounting gains
related to the drop in Morgan Stanley’s bonds and a loss in a
Japanese joint venture. That was down from $12.7 billion on a
comparable basis a year earlier.  The cost of salaries, bonuses and benefits for traders and
bankers in the unit amounted to 46 percent of that revenue, up
from 42 percent in the first nine months of 2010, according to
figures posted on the New York-based firm’s website. Without
adjusting for the Japanese loss and the so-called debt-valuation
adjustments, or DVAs, the ratio fell to 38 percent from 42
percent, the company said.  The firm “is ensuring that we can appropriately compensate
those who are delivering returns for the franchise, while
balancing what we need to do to deliver returns for
shareholders,” Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said on a
conference call with analysts about the firm’s earnings today.  Morgan Stanley’s investment banking unit set aside 31
percent less in the third quarter than in the previous three
months, joining rivals  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s investment bank in seeking to cut costs.  Brokerage Pay  Companywide compensation and benefits rose 6 percent to
$12.7 billion. That was enough to pay each of the firm’s 62,648
employees $202,608 for the nine months, up from the $190,681 it
set aside for each of the 62,864 employees at the end of
September of 2010, the bank’s figures show. The firm doesn’t
report how many people work in institutional securities.  Morgan Stanley’s brokerage division, which employed 17,291
financial advisers at the end of September, down from 18,119 a
year earlier, set aside $6.28 billion for pay in the nine
months, 7 percent higher than a year earlier. The unit’s
compensation cost, which is set by a fixed grid for many
employees, was 62 percent of its revenue for the nine months,
down from 63 percent last year.  “There’s not a lot they can do on the wealth management
side because of some of the contracts, but the investment
banking side is proving to be a more flexible place for
controlling comp,” Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales
Partners LLC in New York, said today on Bloomberg Television’s
“Inside Track.”  Goldman, JPMorgan  Goldman Sachs said yesterday it set aside $10 billion to
pay employees in this year’s first nine months, down 24 percent
from the same period last year as revenue slid 25 percent. That
was equivalent to $292,836 for each of the company’s 34,200
workers as of Sept. 30. A year earlier Goldman Sachs employed
35,400 people, who shared about $13.1 billion, or $370,706 each,
for the nine-month period.  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, reported last
week that it reduced its investment bank’s workforce by almost 4
percent in the third quarter and cut employee compensation costs
28 percent. The investment bank’s compensation expense was
enough to give each of the division’s employees $289,611 for the
nine-month period.  The average compensation figures are derived by dividing
the overall compensation pool by the number of employees, and
they don’t represent individual workers’ actual pay. Investment
banks set aside revenue throughout the year for pay and
typically decide bonuses at year-end.  Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., one of two
Japanese joint ventures between the two banks and the one
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. controls, posted a loss in
the first quarter on wrong-way fixed-income bets that cost
Morgan Stanley $655 million. The firm said at the time it was
excluding the loss from pay decisions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net 
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  