-- 
Morgan Stanley Reports $2.1 Billion in Net Exposure to Five EU Nations

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-10-19T13:03:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/morgan-stanley-has-2-1-billion-net-exposure-to-five-eu-nations.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  said risks tied to
five countries at the center of  Europe ’s debt crisis totaled
$2.11 billion including hedges against losses. The amount for
France is negative $286 million.  Greece , Ireland, Italy, Portugal and  Spain  represented
$5.69 billion in exposure before hedges, the New York-based firm
said today on its  website . Morgan Stanley’s risks linked to
France were $1.53 billion before hedges.  Concern that Europe’s debt crisis would spark bank losses
contributed to a 41 percent tumble for Morgan Stanley’s shares
in the third quarter. Europe’s leaders are set to meet Oct. 23
to discuss how to stem the crisis.  The risks “seems meaningfully lower than feared,” Brennan
Hawken, an analyst at UBS AG, wrote today in a note to
investors.  The largest net exposure was $1.79 billion to  Italy , and
the firm had negative net exposure to Ireland and Portugal. The
figures include obligations tied to sovereign governments,
corporations, clearinghouses and financial institutions.  “The exposures have been very well managed,” Chief
Financial Officer Ruth Porat said in an interview. “We’ve been
looking forward to addressing this.”  Disclosures by the bank are likely to ease concern about
fallout from the crisis, causing Morgan Stanley’s credit spreads
to narrow relative to peers, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts
and strategists  John Marshall , Louise Pitt and Daniel Harris
said in a note earlier this month.  Comfort Level  “They need to give investors a level of comfort that
they’re addressing it,” said Douglas G. Ciocca, managing
director at Kavar Capital Partners LLC in Leawood,  Kansas , which
manages about $225 million in assets. He spoke before the
figures were released. “They’ll have to be as reasonably
assuring and specific as they can be.”  Gorman sent a memo to employees on Oct. 3 as the shares
dropped to the lowest since December 2008, encouraging them to
remain focused on their jobs and clients instead of responding
to “the rumor of the day.”  “There has been an enormous amount of confusion and
misinformation about Morgan Stanley and others in our peer
group,” he wrote in the memo, which was obtained by Bloomberg
News. “In fragile markets, where fear triumphs over common
sense, these things are bound to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  