-- 
Mortgage Derivatives Breaking With Bonds as PrimeX Tumbles: Credit Markets

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-10-19T16:30:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/mortgage-derivatives-breaking-with-bonds-as-primex-tumbles-credit-markets.html
Mortgage derivatives tied to the
biggest U.S. home loans are plummeting in a divergence from the
underlying bonds as firms from TCW Group Inc. to Wells Fargo &
Co. say the credit-default swaps are sending false signals.  PrimeX indexes, used to wager on higher-quality mortgages
from before the housing crash that were too large for government
backing, reached record lows this month as trading quadrupled.
One index tied to fixed-rate debt fell 10.6 percent through
yesterday, while the underlying bonds declined less than 1
percent, Markit Group Ltd. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  data show.  Hedge funds that don’t usually trade mortgage debt are
piling into  PrimeX  swaps, seeking the kinds of fortunes that
investors earned in 2007 betting against subprime loans,
JPMorgan and Barclays Capital analysts said. While the positions
are proving profitable because few firms want to take the
opposite bets in a volatile market with dealers retrenching, the
funds will eventually be proven wrong, TCW’s Bryan Whalen said.  “They’re being either naive or misled,” said Whalen, co-
head of mortgage bonds at the Los Angeles-based firm, which
oversees $120 billion. “Or, they’re momentum investors thinking
they can get on this, push it down and make a quick buck.”  Trading in PrimeX contracts, whose prices move lower as the
cost of protection against defaults on so-called jumbo mortgages
rises, soared to $1.2 billion in the first week of October,
about the same as in all of September, according to Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp.  data . Volumes for benchmark U.S.
investment-grade corporate swaps totaled more than $200 billion.  Not ‘Prescient’  “I don’t view PrimeX as being particularly prescient in
terms of what collateral performance will do because I don’t
think there’s enough people involved to look at it that way,”
said Glenn Schultz, the head of residential-mortgage bond
research at Wells Fargo’s securities unit.  Mark Hanson, a  consultant  to money managers who worked in
the mortgage industry as housing boomed, disagreed, saying the
drops have come because “you had managers kicking their feet up
on the desk and wrongly thinking they’ve got prime mortgages.”  About 12 percent of jumbo mortgages in securities are now
at least 60 days delinquent, according to Amherst Securities
Group data.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds worldwide instead of similar-
maturity government debt fell 1 basis point yesterday to 253
basis points, or 2.53 percentage points, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Spreads have narrowed from 277 on Oct. 4, the widest since July
2009. Yields averaged 4.06 percent.  Default Swaps Fall  A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk fell for a
second day. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 1 basis point to a
mid-price of 131.6 basis points as of 12:13 p.m. in New York,
according to Markit Group Ltd.  The index typically declines as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, plans to sell
10-year notes in a benchmark offering after issuing similar debt
in August, according to a person familiar with the transaction.  The offering follows a $1.25 billion sale of the 4.35
percent notes on Aug. 15, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. Benchmark issues are
typically at least $500 million.  Bigger Mortgages  PrimeX indexes  track U.S. mortgages generally bigger than
$417,000 and issued from 2005 through 2007. Net outstanding
contracts fell to $3.8 billion on Oct. 7, from $4.1 billion a
week earlier, even as trading jumped, DTCC data show. More than
$170 billion of prime-jumbo mortgage securities from the same
years are outstanding, with bonds from other years totaling more
than $81 billion, according to Amherst data.  At least 50  hedge funds  placed bets in 2006 and 2007
through so-called ABX and other default swaps against debt tied
to subprime borrowers with poor credit or high levels of debt,
according to a report from the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission.  John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co. made $15 billion
wagering on subprime defaults in 2007.  Better Underwriting  “PrimeX isn’t ABX and it isn’t what ABX represented,”
said  Paul Norris , a senior  money manager  at Dwight Asset
Management Co. in Burlington,  Vermont , which manages and advises
on more than $50 billion of assets.  Investors shouldn’t view the indexes as indicative of
sentiment on prime mortgages smaller than limits for government-
backed  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which were better
underwritten and less concentrated in the states with the
biggest home-price booms, Norris said.  “That’s even worse, that’s like apples and bananas,” he
said.  The PrimeX market was vulnerable because bond buyers were
underestimating the extent of weakness in the underlying
mortgages, said Hanson, the San Francisco-based consultant who
said he recommended in February that clients pair bearish bets
through the swaps and Treasury purchases.  Incomes for about half of PrimeX borrowers weren’t fully
documented, between 40 percent and 64 percent of homeowners now
owe more than their properties’ values, and much of the debt is
interest-only loans with potentially rising payments, he said.  ‘Best Case’  Prices for the fixed-rate jumbo-prime securities from 2006
and 2007 tracked by one of the four PrimeX indexes have fallen
less than 1 cent on the dollar this month to about 85 cents on
average, according to JPMorgan data. The debt, which was
originally AAA rated, climbed from a record low of less than 66
cents in May 2009 to start this year at almost 91 cents.  The 87.5 level for that PrimeX index, called FRM.2, means
that an investor would need to put up $12.5 million upfront as
well as pay an additional $4.5 million a year to wager against
$100 million of debt. The index ended 2010 at 102.5.  JPMorgan analysts led by  John Sim  said in an Oct. 14 report
a price that day of 88.5 meant the contracts offered annual
leveraged returns to bullish investors of 35.5 percent in their
“base case.” That scenario assumes almost 31 percent of the
underlying loans default. With 50 percent more defaults, the
returns would be 26 percent, they said.  ‘Poor Liquidity’  Barclays Capital  said in an Oct. 14 report that even at the
higher prices earlier this month, PrimeX indexes tied to 2005
loans offered estimated leveraged yields of 8 percent assuming
17 percent declines in national home prices and 14 percent
unemployment.  Analysts at both banks said the investors should be
prepared for further declines in the indexes.  “Given the poor liquidity, we tend to have a pretty high
threshold to get involved,” said Dan Ivascyn, a managing
director at Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,
 California , which runs the world’s largest bond fund. “Very few
people think on a hold-to-maturity basis, you’re going to lose
money.”  The slump is weakening the market for actual jumbo bonds by
creating larger disagreements on prices between potential buyers
and sellers, Ivascyn said.  Investment banks have scaled back risk-taking and investors
such as banks and real estate investment trusts active in the
jumbo-bond market are less willing to trade in derivatives for
reasons including tax and accounting rules, according to Norris
and TCW’s Whalen.  ‘Dirty’ Securities  The decline may give investors an excuse to retreat from
similar debt or negotiate harder as they seek to buy securities,
said Jesse Litvak, a mortgage-bond trader at Jefferies & Co.
Right now, “anything that’s clean you can trade, anything
that’s dirty it’s very difficult to trade.”  PrimeX swaps could at some point draw TCW from other
mortgage bonds, Whalen said, though the firm would rather target
investments with steadier values because “there is a price
where you’re getting compensating for the volatility and we
would move in.”  Hanson, the consultant who said his 20 hedge and mutual
fund clients each oversee more than $1 billion, said he isn’t
sure whether PrimeX swaps still offer long-term value.  “It all depends going forward on what you believe is going
to happen to mid-to-high-end housing and the mid-to-high-end
borrower,” he said. “We tend to believe you’re going to see a
compression in which the low-end is much more stable and the
high end has a long way to go on the way down. If that thesis
plays out, PrimeX is a great short.”  Refinancing Concerns  Investors with that view may be surprised because unlike
with subprime swaps, the cash required for their trades may
climb as some of the underlying homeowners refinance, said
Clayton DeGiacinto, chief investment officer of New York-based
hedge fund Axonic Capital LLC. That’s a bigger risk “with
 mortgage rates  where they are,” he said, referring to loan
costs for the best borrowers hovering near record lows.  It should also provide comfort to default-protection
sellers that more than 80 percent of the borrowers have never
missed a payment, he said. PrimeX investments offer annual
returns of almost 30 percent even in scenarios where  home prices 
drop 20 percent more, according to his calculations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  