-- 
Osborne Faces 16 Billion-Pound Budget Hole, U.K. Survey Shows

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-10-19T14:13:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/osborne-faces-16-billion-pound-budget-hole-u-k-survey-shows.html
Britain’s budget deficit may be 16
billion pounds ($25 billion) higher than planned by April 2013
as the fallout from  Europe ’s debt crisis hits economic growth,
 independent forecasts  published by the Treasury today showed.  The shortfall will be 128.1 billion pounds in the fiscal
year through March 2012, 6.1 billion pounds more than the  Office
for Budget Responsibility  predicted in March, according to the
average of 29 forecasts made over the past three months.
Borrowing in the following fiscal year will be 9.7 billion
pounds more than the 101 billion pounds planned, the survey
showed.  Prospects for output, meanwhile, fell by the most this
year. Economists predicted growth of just 1 percent in 2011,
down from 1.2 percent seen last month and March’s 1.7 percent
OBR forecast. The figures paint a picture of deepening pessimism
as Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  prepares to
present updated forecasts from the budget office on Nov. 29.  “Economic growth is likely to fall considerably below what
they were expecting,” Samuel Tombs, an economist at  Capital
Economics , a London-based consultant which had the fourth most
pessimistic borrowing forecast for this year supplied to the
Treasury, said in a telephone interview. “That’s why borrowing
will be higher, not just this year but in future years.”  Osborne is facing criticism that his plan to eliminate the
structural deficit by 2015 is acting as a brake on an economy
teetering on the verge of a second recession in three years. The
Labour opposition says his plan will result in a bigger deficit
because it will hurt growth, pushing up welfare costs and
sapping tax receipts.  ‘Crazy Plan’  Prime Minister  David Cameron  defended the cuts in
Parliament today and said Labour’s “crazy plan” to slow the
pace of  deficit reduction  would add 23 billion pounds to
borrowing this year and almost 100 billion pounds by the end of
the current parliament in 2015.  “There is not a single country in Europe that thinks you
deal with your debts by adding to your debts,” he told
lawmakers.  Sixteen of the 29 forecasts in the Treasury survey were
received in October. These are more pessimistic than the three-
month average, showing growth of 0.9 percent this year and 1.3
percent in 2012.  Cameron and Osborne say their strategy relies on getting
the Bank of England to stimulate demand. The central bank raised
the ceiling for so-called quantitative easing to 275 billion
pounds from 200 billion pounds on Oct. 6.  Delayed Recovery  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King said yesterday the
euro-region debt turmoil and slowing world economy had delayed
the recovery. The  Institute for Fiscal Studies  warned that U.K
consumer spending may not return to its pre-recession levels
until at least 2013.  U.K. households are facing the tightest squeeze on their
incomes since the 1970s, a point underlined yesterday when the
government said inflation hit a three-year high of 5.2 percent
in September.  The pickup in inflation will also add almost 2 billion
pounds to planned welfare spending in the next fiscal year,
according to the IFS, as the figure for September is used to
calculate increases to state benefits. The OBR, whose forecasts
are used by the Treasury, had predicted September inflation of
4.3 percent.  The  budget deficit  in September was probably 15 billion
pounds, little changed from a year earlier, according to the
median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. That would
take the shortfall in the first six months to 66.5 billion
pounds. The  Office for National Statistics  will release the data
at 9:30 a.m. on Oct. 21. The OBR forecast a deficit for the
fiscal year as a whole of 122 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  