-- 
Sept. Housing Starts Up More Than Forecast

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-10-19T21:00:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/housing-starts-in-u-s-increased-more-than-forecast-in-september.html
Builders began work on more U.S.
homes than forecast in September and consumer prices climbed at
the slowest pace in three months, supporting Federal Reserve
forecasts for a pickup in growth and a moderation in inflation.  Housing starts jumped 15 percent to a 658,000 annual rate,
the most since April 2010, the Commerce Department reported
today in  Washington . Data from the Labor Department showed the
cost of living climbed 0.3 percent from August, in line with the
median projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The increase in building was led by a surge in construction
of apartments and other multifamily dwellings that may continue
to support the industry as the housing slump turns more
Americans into renters. Less inflation gives the central bank
the flexibility to take additional steps should the world’s
largest economy stumble.  “The housing numbers are getting better,” said  Brian Jones , a senior U.S. economist at  Societe Generale  in New York,
whose estimate for starts was the highest in the Bloomberg
survey. Policy makers “have to take some heart that the
inflation numbers have come off. It leaves them more leeway to
do what they have to do to support economic activity.”  Stocks declined amid concern about the strength of the
economy and an impasse over European bailout talks. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.3 percent to 1,209.88 at 4 p.m. in
 New York . The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index also
decreased 1.3 percent.  The median forecast for housing starts in a Bloomberg
survey called for a 590,000 pace. Estimates of 75 economists
ranged from 560,000 to 643,000.  More Apartments  Work on multifamily homes jumped 51.3 percent in September
from the prior month to an annual rate of 233,000, the most
since October 2008. New construction of single-family houses
increased 1.7 percent to a 425,000 rate.  “People focus on the single-family portion of the market,
but the problems in single-family activity represent a boon to
the multifamily area,” said Jones.  The vacancy rate for apartments dropped in the third
quarter to 5.6 percent, the lowest since 2006, according to an
Oct. 6 report from Reis Inc. Effective rents, or what tenants
pay after landlord giveaways are included, rose on a year-over-
year basis in 81 out of the 82 metropolitan areas tracked by the
New York-based property-research company.  Mortgage financing for multifamily housing of five or more
units rose 31 percent to $68.8 billion in 2010 from a year
earlier, a separate report today from the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  showed.  Broad-Based Gain  Total starts climbed in all four regions, led by an 18.1
percent rise in the West and a 15.7 percent increase in the
South, according to the Commerce Department.  A decrease in building permits, a proxy for future
construction, took some of the shine off the housing numbers.
The Commerce Department’s report showed applications dropped 5
percent to a 594,000 annual rate in September, a five-month low.  The report on consumer prices said costs excluding food and
fuel, the so-called core measure, rose 0.1 percent, less than
forecast and the smallest gain since March. The gauge climbed 2
percent from September 2010, the same as in the 12 months ended
August.  Most Fed officials at the Sept. 20-21 meeting anticipated
core and headline inflation was “likely to settle, over coming
quarters, at or below the levels they see as most consistent
with their dual mandate,” according to minutes released on Oct.
12. Policy makers aim for long-run core inflation of about 1.7
percent to 2 percent.  Clothing, Rents  The biggest drop in clothing prices in 13 years, lower
costs for used cars and trucks and the smallest increase in
rents in four months led to the moderation in core prices last
month, the report showd. The slowdown in rents may not persist
given the drop in apartment vacancies.  Companies like clothing retailer  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and supermarket
chain  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  have said they are limited in how much they
can raise prices to recoup raw materials costs as weak job and
income gains squeeze consumers.  After adjusting for inflation, hourly wages dropped 0.1
percent in September on average, and were down 1.9 percent over
the past 12 months, according to the Labor Department’s figures.  “Inflation is playing out according to the Fed’s script,”
said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in
 West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “The economy is sluggish and
businesses are very hesitant to pass on higher input costs to
consumers. Consumers are very price sensitive right now.”  ‘Tough Economy’  A jump in cotton expenses hurt Gap’s Old Navy stores that
sell more clothing made of the material, yet it “chose not to
raise prices commensurate with cost given the impact of the
tough economy on our customers,” Chief Financial Officer
Sabrina Simmons said on a conference call with analysts on Oct.
13.  Steven Burd, chairman and chief executive officer of
Safeway, said inflation was “predominantly in perishable
categories” and fuel, while there were “a couple of categories
that actually had deflation,” or a persistent drop in prices.
Shoppers at the Pleasanton, California-based company remain
“very conscious” of the price tag, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net :
Alex Kowalski at   akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  