-- 
How To Give a Child Retirement Security

-- B y   C a r l a   F r i e d
-- 
2011-10-19T20:40:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/how-to-give-a-child-retirement-security.html
Look at your kids and you'll likely think of
education, marriage or career, not retirement.
Now, though, when kids are relatively young, is the smart time
to set them up with a Roth IRA for their retirement.  T. Rowe Price estimates that parents and grandparents who
bankroll or subsidize an annual $2,000 Roth IRA contribution
for five years, starting when the recipient is at age 13, are
putting a teen in line to receive $10,000 of annual retirement
income from that original seed money. “You’re gifting 50 years
of compound growth,” says  Christine Fahlund , a senior
financial planner at the fund firm.  Remember, that’s
potentially tax-free retirement income. All contributions to
Roth IRAs can be taken out, free of tax, at any time, and
earnings can also circumvent the IRS toll as long as your kid
waits until age 59 1/2 to begin taking out profits. All
withdrawals from Traditional IRAs will be hit with income tax.  The one catch: Teens must have their own earned income
equal to the amount of a Roth contribution. Investment income
doesn’t count, nor does trust income -- it's strictly
earnings. To qualify, they need wages from any job --
babysitting, mowing lawns, waiting tables. The child doesn’t
need to fork over his or her own earnings to fund the
Roth, however. If your child or grandchild earned $2,000 this
year, you can bankroll a $2,000 Roth contribution.  Offer a Match  Fahlund recommends an incentive program by which adults
don’t bankroll 100% of the retirement contribution, but
instead offer a generous matching contribution. Say, for every
dollar they contribute, you pitch in $10. Or $20. That's
unimpeachable advice, if you can make it fly with your teen.  Jean Dorrell, an estate-planning specialist at Senior
Financial Security in Summerfield,  Florida , says this is an
increasingly popular move with grandparents. ”They enjoy
knowing they are helping build something, not just giving away
money without a goal.” Giving Roth IRA contributions is indeed
a smart way to transfer assets from one generation to another.
The $5,000 maximum IRA contribution is well within the 2012
$13,000 annual limit on money gifts (per individual
recipient), so you'll steer clear of having to file a gift tax
return with the IRS.  Most brokerages and fund companies allow accounts to be set
up for minors, as long as an adult signs on as custodian.
You'll need to check with your current financial institution.
T. Rowe Price Vanguard and Schwab offer Roths for minors.
Fidelity doesn’t. “It’s something we’re working on and hope to
offer in the future,” says Fidelity spokesman Michael
Shamrell.  A Minor Consideration  Keep in mind that somewhere from the age of 18 to 21
(depending on your state), the recipient can take can take
complete control of the account. So you might want to start
talking now about what your hopes and wishes are for this
money, and how that doesn’t, um, include early withdrawals for
a Spring Break jaunt or car.  That said, a Roth IRA can be strategically tapped well
before your child hits  retirement age . Again, all
contributions can be withdrawn, fully tax-free, at any time.
It’s just the earnings on the account that can run up a tax
bill. Typically, withdrawing Roth earnings before age 59 1/2
will trigger a 10% early withdrawal penalty and income tax on
the amount withdrawn. Up to $10,000 of earnings can be tapped
tax-free at any age, though, when used for a down payment on a
first home. If earnings are tapped to pay college
expenses, there’s no 10 percent early withdrawal penalty, but
income tax will be due.  Giving the gift of a Roth IRA contribution isn’t only for
young ones. Dorrell says she has many clients who are funding
 Roth IRAs  for grown children. “Their [grown] kids have their
hands full, figuring out how to put their own kids through
college.” Dorrell says one 83-year-old client just funded a
Roth for her 55-year-old son; another set up Roths for 16
grandchildren. A parent’s job is never done.
 