-- 
Pakistan Names Anwar as Central Bank Governor Amid Terrorism

-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-10-19T09:53:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/pakistan-appoints-anwar-as-central-bank-governor-amid-terrorism.html
Yaseen Anwar, who cut  interest rates 
in the past three months as the  Pakistan  central bank’s acting
governor, was named its chief as the economy struggles with
terrorism and falling investment.  “His appointment is confirmed,” Zafaryab Khan, a
spokesman in Pakistan Prime Minister Syed Yousaf Raza Gilani’s
office said by telephone from Islamabad today. Anwar, 60, will
replace Shahid Kardar, who resigned in July citing policy
differences with the government.  Anwar reversed Kardar’s monetary tightening, slashing the
benchmark discount rate by 2 percentage points since the end of
July to spur investment. The  State Bank of Pakistan  had scope to
act and join emerging market counterparts from  Russia  to  Brazil 
in lowering borrowing costs after Pakistan’s inflation eased.  “Anwar ensures continuity in policies aimed at spurring
growth,” said Ahmed Raza Khan, Karachi-based head of research
at IGI Finex Securities Ltd. “To what extent he can further
ease the policy rate would depend on inflation pressures.”  The Pakistan rupee has declined 1.3 percent this year and
dropped to a record low on Sept. 16, prompting the central bank
last month to conduct what it called a “calibrated
intervention” to stabilize the currency and curb the threat of
higher import costs.  The Karachi Stock Exchange  100 Index  has dropped 3 percent
since the start of this year, while Pakistan’s 10-year
government bond yields are trading at 12.2 percent, the highest
level after Greece and  Venezuela , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Slowing Inflation  Consumer prices rose 10.46 percent in September from a year
earlier, after climbing 12.43 percent in July, according to the
 Federal Bureau of Statistics .  Gilani’s government named Anwar, a deputy governor since
March 2007, as the central bank’s acting chief after Kardar quit
on July 12. The State Bank unexpectedly cut rates by half a
percentage point in the July 30 policy decision, almost three
weeks after Kardar resigned blaming state spending for fanning
prices.  Anwar, who worked at Merrill Lynch & Co. and Bank of
America Corp. in his 33-year career before joining the  State
Bank , cited the government’s commitment to “zero borrowings”
from the central bank as one of the reasons for reducing rates
in July. The federal government  paid  back 76 billion rupees
($877 million) to the central bank this fiscal year that started
July 1 compared with borrowings of 200 billion rupees in the
same period a year earlier, according to the central bank.  Rate Cut  On Oct. 8, the central bank reduced the discount rate by a
more-than-expected 1.5 percentage points to 12 percent.  The State Bank is scheduled to announce its next rate
decision toward the end of November.  Pakistan’s economic growth rate may be 0.5 percentage point
lower than the government target of 4.2 percent in the year
ending June 30, a finance ministry official said at a background
briefing for reporters in Islamabad today.  Policy makers are aiming to boost economic growth from 2.4
percent in the previous year, one of the lowest  expansions  in
the past decade, as the country struggled to cope with floods
and militant attacks.  Terror attacks in the South Asian nation have killed at
least 35,000 people since 2006, according to government
 estimates . Floods in August forced more than one million people
from their homes and damaged crops in parts of southern Pakistan
still recovering from last year’s worst ever monsoon inundations
that devastated the region.  Foreign direct investment in Pakistan fell 28.5 percent to
$282.7 million in the first three months of the fiscal year that
started July 1 from a year earlier. By contrast,  India , from
which Pakistan was partitioned in 1947 following independence
from British rule, got $13.4 billion in the three months through
June, a quarterly record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad, Pakistan at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net 
$PAPRSBP <Equity> 