-- 
Papandreou Faces Final Greek Austerity Vote as Protesters Clash in Athens

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-10-20T15:35:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/papandreou-has-votes-to-win-parliament-test-of-austerity-bill.html
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos warned lawmakers they must implement further austerity
to “rewrite” Greece’s behavior, as the government prepared to
put a vote to parliament that risks stoking social unrest.  Tear gas was fired in central Athens as protesters clashed
with police for a second day outside the parliament building
where Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will put the legislation
to a vote later today. Parliament’s acting speaker confirmed the
death of a protester and offered lawmakers’ condolences as the
debate continued into the evening local time.  The urgency was underlined by the latest report by outside
assessors on Greece’s finances that recommended paying the next
installment of bailout money to Greece “as soon as possible”
after the government makes good on its austerity pledges.  “We must tell Greeks the truth,” Venizelos said in a
speech to parliament in comments broadcast live. “There are no
miracles. The country won’t be saved by some miracle. The
miracle will be the result of hard work.”  Police said about 50,000 protesters faced off against 2,500
officers encircling parliament before the protest turned violent
for a second day. A group of about 200 hooded youths threw
stones and Molotov cocktails at demonstrators from the Communist
Party of Greece-backed PAME labor union who were protesting the
austerity measures.  Head Wounds  People with head wounds were taken to a first-aid station
in Syntagma Square, the focus of the demonstrations. A 53-year-
old construction worker died of cardiac arrest after a rock hit
him on the head, Skai.gr website reported, without saying how it
got the information.  The  International Monetary Fund  is watching the Greek
protests closely and “with concern,” spokesman Gerry Rice told
reporters in  Washington .  “We understand that this is a very difficult time for the
people of Greece, and times of crisis are always difficult,
especially if people perceive that changes that need to be made
are unfair,” he said.  With a four-seat parliament majority, Papandreou is banking
on his Pasok party to face down the public anger and pass the
measures that are a precondition for continued international
aid. Venizelos said the bill was a “credibility ticket” for a
meeting of euro-area finance ministers tomorrow and an Oct. 23
summit of European leaders that will discuss potential cuts in
Greece’s debt load as part of a package to halt the crisis.  EU Summit  Papandreou was due to brief his ministers today on
“current economic developments” ahead of the European Union
summit that aims to consider Greece’s finances as well as
leveraging the euro rescue fund and bank recapitalizations as
part of a plan to stamp out the debt crisis.  While the Greek government has made “important progress,”
the country’s debt dynamics remain “worrying,” according to
the latest report from October on Greece’s finances by the so-
called troika of inspectors from the European Commission, the
 European Central Bank  and International Monetary Fund.  “The Commission services recommend the sixth disbursement
to Greece to take place as soon as possible: as soon as the
agreed prior actions on fiscal consolidation, privatization and
labor-market reform, which were announced by the government,
have been legislated,” the report said.  48-Hour Strike  The scale of the government’s challenge was made clear as
Greece entered the second day of a 48-hour strike that has
closed hospitals, schools and government offices in protest at
the austerity package. The measures comprise tax rises, cuts to
pensions and wages and plans to dismiss 30,000 state workers,
plus provisions to break the collective pay-bargaining power of
Greek unions.  Government ministers “don’t want to implement these tax
measures across the country, but unfortunately they’re needed in
order to regain some composure within the country and actually
get things back on a proper footing,” Nick Maroutsos, who
oversees the equivalent of about $4 billion at Sydney-based
Kapstream Capital, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“They’re going to have to take the pain now.”  Two years after the debt crisis came to light in  Greece ,
Papandreou is courting social unrest that risks boiling over as
he pushes the additional austerity through. Drawing particular
fire from unions and some members of Papandreou’s own party is
an aspect of the legislation known as Article 37, which suspends
the power of unions to impose wages and work rules through
collective labor agreements.  Test of Unity  Papandreou is testing his party’s support for the second
time in 24 hours after he secured the backing of all 154 of his
lawmakers in the 300-seat parliament in a preliminary ballot on
the bill late yesterday. Today’s ballot is a vote on each
article of the legislation.  He received a further fillip today when a ruling party
lawmaker, Vasso Papandreou, a founding member of Pasok who is
not related to the premier, said she will back all articles of
the bill to ensure Greece receives the sixth loan payment. She
earlier said she would oppose an article in the legislation “to
send a message.”  Successive rounds of tax increases and cuts to wages and
pensions have deepened a recession now in its fourth year, with
the  Greek economy  set to contract 5.5 percent this year and 2.5
percent next, according to the 2012 budget. The  unemployment
rate  reached 16.5 percent in July, data released Oct. 18 by the
Hellenic Statistical Authority showed. That’s more than double
the 7 percent that month in  Germany , the biggest contributor to
euro-area bailouts including for Greece.  Greeks “haven’t known such hunger since 1940,” Panagiotis
Antoniadis, 71, a pensioner who came to protest outside the
parliament, said in an interview. Antoniadis said he lives on a
pension of 700 euros a month. “It’s pure poverty, as simple as
that,” he said. “We can’t put up with more measures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  