-- 
Parkson Unit’s Singapore IPO Said to Seek Up to $142 Million

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-10-19T03:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/parkson-retail-said-to-seek-up-to-s-181-million-in-singapore-ipo.html
Parkson Retail Asia Pte., a unit of
Malaysia’s  Parkson Holdings Bhd. (PKS) , aims to raise as much as S$181
million ($142 million) in an initial public offering in
 Singapore , said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The company, which will start marketing the offer to
investors today, plans to sell 147 million shares at S$0.935 to
S$1.07 each, the people said, asking not to be identified as the
information is private. The company has the option to expand the
IPO by 22 million shares, they said.  The company, part of Malaysian businessman William Cheng’s
Lion Group, initially planned to raise between S$300 million to
S$500 million, and scaled down the offering due to volatile
market conditions, one person said. It plans to start trading by
early November, the person said.  Parkson operates 36 department stores in  Malaysia  and seven
in Vietnam, according to its website. It plans to use the
proceeds from the IPO to open new stores in Indonesia, Malaysia,
Vietnam and Cambodia, one of the people said.  The company said last month it received conditional
approval for a listing from Singapore’s stock exchange. CIMB
Investment Bank Bhd. and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  were hired to help
manage the sale, the company said in August.  Parkson is unable to disclose any information at this
stage, Quah Le Ching, a spokeswoman at Lion Group, said in an e-
mail. Lion is a group of companies with businesses that include
steel mills, property development, and construction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  