-- 
Pennsylvania House Gives Governor Corbett Power Over Harrisburg’s Finances

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-10-19T17:46:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/pennsylvania-gives-governor-power-over-harrisburg-s-finances.html
Harrisburg might become
Pennsylvania’s first city in receivership after lawmakers sent
Governor Tom Corbett a  bill  empowering him to name a manager who
will be able to overrule elected officials and run municipal
finances.  In a 177-18 vote, the state House of Representatives today
gave final approval to the measure that would let Corbett declare
a fiscal emergency in advance of a state takeover. Corbett, a
Republican, has said he will sign it.  Members didn’t debate the bill. Democratic Representative
Ron Buxton, whose district includes the city, requested an
affirmative vote before the roll call.  On Nov. 23, a federal judge will consider the validity of a
bankruptcy petition filed by the Harrisburg City Council. The
council approved the move 4-3 as a bid to ward off state action
after skipping payments on debt tied to a trash-to-energy
incinerator project. The state and Mayor  Linda Thompson , a
Democrat, have challenged the filing.  A receiver can’t end the bankruptcy without court approval,
according to Mark D. Schwartz, an attorney for the council, and
lawyers for the mayor.  “It’s a power grab,” said Councilwoman Susan Brown-
Wilson, who signed the bankruptcy filing, in a phone call after
the House vote. ‘We’ll want to see where the bankruptcy comes
out.’’  Corbett told reporters yesterday that he has “in mind some
people I want to interview” for the receiver position.  Governor in Charge  The city of 49,500 faces a debt burden five times its
general-fund budget because of an overhaul and expansion of the
incinerator, which doesn’t generate enough revenue to cover the
obligations. Harrisburg guaranteed about $242 million of debt
related to the incinerator, with $65 million of it overdue,
according to the bankruptcy filing.  The legislation would give Corbett control over the city’s
elected officials and let him name a receiver who would develop
a recovery plan.  The manager would have the power to sell assets, hire
advisers and suspend the authority of elected officials who
interfere. The receiver wouldn’t be able to change labor
contracts without unions’ agreement.  A House analysis estimated the cost of receivership to be
as much as $2.55 million in the first year, with the city
bearing 60 percent of it.  Talk It Through  “The preferable course of action would be for the city of
Harrisburg through its elected officials on City Council and the
mayor to work out an appropriate and acceptable pathway to
fiscal solvency,” Senator Jeffrey E. Piccola, a Dauphin County
Republican who helped draft the legislation, said after the
Senate vote yesterday.  After Corbett signs the bill, he may declare a fiscal
emergency. The city would have 30 days to devise a fiscal
blueprint approved by the state before a receiver is named. The
council in July and August rejected roadmaps for recovery.  Senator John P. Blake, a Democrat, said the bill
disregarded democratic principles.  “This legislation is meant to protect moneyed interests at
the expense of local taxpayers under the guise of protecting
public safety,” he told his colleagues yesterday. “I think
it’s an overreach of state government powers.  Thompson has said that while she opposes losing fiscal
control, she will lobby for greater powers for herself if a
receiver is named. The bill names the mayor as an adviser to the
receiver on any recovery initiative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Harrisburg at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  