-- 
Pepsi Uses Games to Mask Doritos Ads for Teens, Groups Say

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   D u a n e   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-10-19T17:03:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/pepsi-uses-games-to-mask-doritos-marketing-to-teens-groups-say.html
PepsiCo Inc.’s Frito-Lay unit uses
online video games and concerts to disguise marketing campaigns
for its Doritos chips aimed at teenagers, consumer groups said
in a complaint to U.S. regulators.  The Federal Trade Commission should investigate PepsiCo and
Frito-Lay for deceptive and unfair digital marketing practices,
including collecting teens’ personal information “without
meaningful notice and consent,” according to the complaint
filed today by the Washington-based Center for Digital
Democracy, Consumer Watchdog and two other groups.  “Frito-Lay has infiltrated the lives of teens by
developing covert advertising campaigns centered on things teens
love,” including video games and music, according to  the
complaint . The digital campaign influences teens to buy Doritos,
a salty snack high in calories and fat that contributes to
adolescent obesity, the complaint alleges.  PepsiCo is the world’s largest snack maker, controlling
almost two-thirds of the U.S. salty snacks market. The company’s
Frito-Lay North America unit, with brands including Doritos,
Cheetos and Lay’s potato chips, accounted for $13.4 billion of
the company’s $57.8 billion in global sales last year.  “We haven’t received a copy of the filing or any documents
from the organizations,” Aurora Gonzalez, a Frito-Lay
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail last night before the complaint
was filed. “Without seeing the documents first hand I wouldn’t
want to conjecture on the allegations.”  Gonzalez didn’t immediately return calls and e-mails today.  ‘Whole New Frontier’  The FTC has received the complaint will “review it
carefully,” Elizabeth Lordan, an agency spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. The complaint is the first filed to the FTC about
digital marketing to teens, Lordan said.  Food companies that once relied primarily on television to
reach children are now using a variety of digital media in their
marketing campaigns,  Mary Story , a professor specializing in
child and adolescent nutrition at the  University of Minnesota ,
said in an interview.  “It’s a whole new frontier that parents are not really
aware of and there’s just not regulation at all about these new
types of marketing,” said Story, who isn’t involved in the
complaint. Story directs the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
Healthy Eating Research Program, which has provided grant
funding to the Center for Digital Democracy.  Rihanna Video  Within the  food industry , PepsiCo stands out for
“aggressively using the most sophisticated tools to target
teens in far-reaching ways,” Jeff Chester, executive director
of the Center for Digital Democracy, said in an interview.  “Pepsi has purposely created immersive environments that
are designed to influence the attitudes and behaviors of young
people, including at the subconscious level,” he said. “‘I
don’t think anyone has come close to what Pepsi has done.”  The “immersive” Doritos marketing campaigns have included
Hotel 626 and Asylum 626, online interactive games that provide
a horror-film experience, and a website featuring video of pop
singer Rihanna, according to the complaint. Such campaigns
conceal the nature of the marketing and are deceptive, the
complaint says.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is trying to reduce
a child obesity rate that has almost tripled since 1980 to 17
percent, or 12.5 million Americans, William Dietz, the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention’s director of nutrition and
obesity programs, said last week at a joint hearing of two House
Energy and Commerce subcommittees.  Industry Resistance  A working group of officials from the FTC, CDC and two
other agencies in April proposed voluntary  guidelines  for
advertising to children for food with added sugars, salt and
saturated fat.  The regulators, facing resistance from food companies
including  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Kellogg Co. (K) , are now scaling back those
guidelines to address concerns raised by industry and lawmakers,
 David Vladeck , director of the FTC’s Consumer Protection Bureau,
said at last week’s hearing.  The final guidelines will recommend restricting food ads
targeted at children younger than 12, rather than anyone under
age 18 as originally proposed, Vladeck said.  “The FTC still has a 20th-century mindset when it comes to
protecting consumers in today’s digital environment,” Chester
said. “They have been lagging and foot-dragging, and consumers,
especially teens, are being placed at risk.”  The other two groups filing the complaint are  Consumer
Action , a nonprofit advocacy group founded in 1971, and The
Praxis Project, a Washington-based nonprofit that seeks to
promote community health.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  