-- 
Perry Names Tech Fund Panel Keeping Official of Loss-Making Dallas Utility

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-19T22:58:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/perry-names-tech-fund-panel-keeping-official-of-loss-making-dallas-utility.html
Governor  Rick Perry  named 13 people
to the advisory committee of the  Texas  Emerging Technology Fund,
including an executive of Energy Future Holdings Corp., a Dallas
utility that lost $705 million in the second quarter.  Richard Williams is director of strategy and acquisitions
at the energy company and has been on the fund panel since 2009.
He is a graduate of  Texas A&M University , Perry’s alma mater.  The governor oversees the fund, which has  awarded  grants of
$370 million since 2005 to help companies in Texas develop new
technologies. The advisory committee reviews applications for
aid. Money awarded by the technology fund must be approved by
the governor, the speaker of the  House of Representatives  and
the lieutenant governor, who leads the Texas Senate.  Energy Future, formerly known as TXU Corp., was sold in
2007 to a group led by KKR & Co. and TPG Capital in the largest-
ever leveraged buyout, valued at $43.2 billion. Since then, the
company has lost more than $16 billion because of rising
interest costs and slumping natural-gas and power prices.  Williams declined comment through Lisa Singleton, an Energy
Future spokeswoman who referred questions to Perry’s office.  “Since September 2009, Mr. Williams has been one of 17
members on the advisory committee and the governor appreciates
his willingness to continue serving the state in this capacity,”
Lucy Nashed said in an e-mailed statement.  The Texas governor is seeking the Republican nomination to
challenge President  Barack Obama  in 2012.  Among the 12 other people named to the advisory board are
lawyers, educators, business executives and investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 