-- 
Perry Promises Flat Tax Plan as Romney Produces Video Attack Ad

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-10-20T04:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/perry-flags-flat-tax-proposal-as-he-seeks-to-regain-ground-on-romney-cain.html
Texas Governor Rick Perry says he
will soon offer a flat-tax proposal, his latest bid to draw
distinctions with  Mitt Romney  in a Republican presidential race
that is becoming increasingly contentious.  Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, made clear that
he views Perry as the biggest threat to his quest for the
party’s nomination by releasing a video yesterday that mocks his
debate performances, including one this week in Las Vegas.  The video features unflattering close-ups of Perry
appearing irate, uncomfortable and confused. It pointedly asks
whether Perry is “ready to lead.”  Perry, who trails Romney and businessman  Herman Cain  in
national polls of the nomination contest, told the Western
Republican Leadership Conference in Las Vegas that his tax
proposal will be part of a jobs plan he will unveil next week.  He also used the occasion to throw a verbal jab at Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who came under criticism during
confirmation hearings for having to pay back taxes.  “It starts with scrapping the 3 million words of the
current code, starting over with something simple, a flat tax,”
Perry said of his proposal. “I want to make the tax code so
simple that even  Timothy Geithner  can file his taxes on time.”  Perry gave no other details of his plan.  Single Tax Rate  Under most flat-tax proposals, a single rate applies to
business and individual income, while deductions, credits and
taxes on investment income are removed. Households typically get
a per-person exemption, designed so that a significant portion
of earnings by low-income families wouldn’t be taxed.  Perry’s embrace of the flat tax banks on a desire on the
part of taxpayers for simplicity and recalls proposals from
 Steve Forbes , who ran for the Republican presidential nomination
in 1996 and 2000, and Dick Armey, a Texas Republican who was the
majority leader in the U.S. House from 1995 to 2003.  Flat taxes operate like a broad levy on consumption, said
Alan Auerbach, an economics professor at the  University of
California  at Berkeley.  The impact of Perry’s proposal would depend on the income
level where the tax takes effect, the taxes it replaces, the
revenue target and the rate, Auerbach said. Under some
formulations, middle-income taxpayers would pay more than they
do now. Under others, he said, low-income people would pay more.  Shifting the Burden  “At the top, it’s definitely going to shift the burden
away from the highest-income people,” Auerbach said.  Perry’s proposal would follow one offered in September by
Romney that would reduce U.S. corporate taxes and eliminate them
on interest, dividends and capital gains for individuals making
$200,000 or less per year.  Romney, 64, released his video the day after he and Perry
traded sometimes-angry exchanges at the debate. Romney,
objecting that Perry was interrupting him there, at one point
lectured his rival about being presidential.  “I suggest that, if you want to become president of the
 United States , you got to let both people speak,” he said.  The video also promises a new website,
www.careerpolitician.com. Romney, in his second bid for the
presidency, has been stressing his background as a businessman
before he entered politics and notes that most of the other
Republican candidates lack such experience.  Fresh Evidence  The video provides fresh evidence that Romney views Perry
as his chief competitor for the Republican nomination, even as
the Texan’s standing has dropped in the polls in the wake of
poor debate performances while Cain’s support has risen.  Perry, 61, during his speech yesterday made a joke about
the  Federal Reserve , as he talked about a movie called the “ The
Italian Job ,” where thieves make off with gold.  “That’s enough about the Federal Reserve,” he said.  In a swipe at Romney, who has been criticized for changing
his views on issues including abortion rights, Perry said, “I
come by my conservatism very authentically, not by
convenience.”  That reprised the line he used in introducing himself at
this week’s debate, indicating his campaign will be focusing on
questioning Romney’s conservative credentials and credibility.  “I am not the candidate of the establishment,” Perry also
said. “I’m going to give the American people a huge, big old
helping of unbridled truth.”  Surge in Polls  Cain, 65, a former chief executive officer of Godfather’s
Pizza whose surging poll numbers have put the national spotlight
on him, continued to pitch his 9-9-9 tax plan at the conference.  “The American people get it,” he said. “It’s the ones in
 Washington , D.C., that have a vested interest in the current  tax
code  that they don’t want 9-9-9 to succeed.”  All six of the other candidates in this week’s debate
criticized the proposal. Some of Cain’s rivals cited a study
released the same day as the debate that said his plan would
raise taxes on those with low and middle incomes, while most
wealthy taxpayers would pay less.  The 9-9-9 plan would translate into a  tax cut  for almost 71
percent of Americans with cash income between $200,000 and
$500,000, according to an analysis by the nonpartisan  Tax Policy
Center  in Washington that was built around the assumption that
the 2001 and 2003 federal tax cuts will be extended permanently.  About 95 percent of Americans with income between $30,000
and $40,000 would pay more in taxes under Cain’s plan, the
analysis said, while about 95 percent of Americans with income
exceeding $1 million would receive a tax cut.  Foreign Policy   Cain also addressed what he says has been criticism about
his lack of foreign policy experience.  “I have consulted with foreign policy experts,” he said.
“Let me tell you what they have told me: ‘Herman, all you need
is character and commonsense and intelligence, and we’ve got
plenty of people who can fill out the details.’”  Perry, as part of a bid to regain political momentum,
trained his fire at Romney during much of the debate. He accused
Romney of taking a hard rhetorical line on illegal immigration
while once having hired undocumented workers.  “You hired illegals in your home, and you knew about it
for a year,” Perry said to Romney. “And the idea that you
stand here before us and talk about that you’re strong on
immigration is on its face the height of hypocrisy.”  Denies Illegal Hiring  Romney rejected the charge, which surfaced during his
failed presidential run in 2008, saying a lawn-care company he
hired to work on his property had employed the illegal
immigrants, not him.  He scolded Perry, saying, “This has been a tough couple of
debates for Rick, and I understand that. And so you’re going to
get testy.”  Jim Messina , President  Barack Obama ’s re-election campaign
manager, highlighted on a conference call yesterday another
comment Romney made during the exchange at the debate: “I’m
running for office, for Pete’s sake, I can’t have illegals.”  That statement, Messina told reporters, shows Romney cares
more about advancing his career than what is right and wrong.  “He will say and stand for anything to get elected,”
Messina said. “He objected because he thought it would hurt his
political career.”  Speaking after Perry at yesterday’s conference, former U.S.
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  scolded his fellow
presidential candidates for their debate performances.  “I’d like to see us get away from the bickering,” he said
to applause. “I will say to my fellow candidates, I think that
they are better off to be positive, tell us what they will do,
and not worry all that much about being negative.”  Reince Priebus, chairman of the  Republican National
Committee , told the conference he views the 2012 election as a
fight over America’s future.  “Our stimulus plan is to fire Barack Obama and put a
Republican in the White House,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  Las Vegas , Nevada, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  