-- 
Petro Rabigh Loss Widens as Refinery Maintenance Cuts Output

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-10-19T13:54:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/petro-rabigh-loss-widens-as-refinery-maintenance-cuts-output-1-.html
Rabigh Refining & Petrochemicals Co. (PETROR) 
tumbled 10 percent on the Saudi stock exchange after the 400,000
barrel-a-day fuel-processing plant reported a wider-than-
expected third-quarter loss after maintenance cut output.  The net loss increased to 281 million riyals ($75 million)
from 237 million riyals for the same three months last year, the
company known as Petro Rabigh said today in a  statement  to the
Saudi bourse. The oil and petrochemicals refiner said it was
profitable in September after operations resumed Aug. 15.  Petro Rabigh shares plunged 2.55 riyals to 22.95 riyals at
the close of trading in Riyadh. The market expected the company
to return to profit, said John Tottie, an analyst at HSBC in
 Riyadh , who had targeted net income of 354 million riyals.  “We had forecast -- and the market had expected -- a
positive number in the third quarter, given high chemical prices
and relatively healthy refining margins in  Asia , which is a key
market for Rabigh’s output,” he said in an e-mail.  “After almost two years of largely disappointing operating
performance, it stands to reason that some skepticism is
required on earnings from Rabigh going forward,” said Tottie,
who has a “Neutral” rating on the stock.  PetroRabigh aims to sell new stock to help fund expansion,
and it plans to decide this year whether to put the growth
program into effect, Chief Executive Officer Ziad al-Labban said
Oct. 2. The company’s plant, on  Saudi Arabia ’s Red Sea coast,
expects to double petrochemicals capacity to 3.7 million metric
tons a year if it completes the planned expansion.  PetroRabigh is a joint venture between state-run Saudi
Arabian Oil Co. and Sumitomo Chemical Co. of  Japan , each of
which owns 37.5 percent. The facility produces about 1.3 million
tons of ethylene and additional amounts of related products.  Earnings per share during the first nine months of the year
was 0.02 riyal, down from 0.18 riyal during the same period last
year, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 