-- 
TPG’s Indonesian Partner Northstar Said to Raise Biggest Fund in Country

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-10-19T03:17:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/tpg-s-indonesian-partner-northstar-said-to-raise-biggest-fund-in-country.html
Northstar Pacific Partners, the
Indonesian private-equity firm backed by TPG Capital, raised
$820 million for the biggest fund to invest in the country, said
three people familiar with the company.  Jakarta-based Northstar stopped taking money from investors
after it received $1.5 billion of potential commitments, three
times the $500 million it had sought to raise, the people said,
asking not to be identified because the information is private.
Patrick Walujo, co-founder of Northstar, declined to comment.  Southeast Asia  biggest economy was home to the largest
private-equity investments in the region this year and in 2010,
and is attracting more interest from buyout firms including the
U.K.’s CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Washington-based  Carlyle
Group . The benchmark Jakarta stock index, which reached a record
in August, fell 0.4 percent this year, the smallest decline
among Asia’s 10 biggest equity markets.  “After a period during which investors have deployed
substantial amount of capital to both China and  India , Indonesia
represents an emerging magnet, especially given the size of its
economy and its position in the Southeast Asian economy as well
as its assets in resources,” said Kathleen Ng, managing
director at the  Center for Asia Private Equity Research  in  Hong
Kong .  Indonesia, the fourth-most populous nation, is the world’s
biggest palm oil producer and holds some of the largest deposits
of natural gas and minerals such as coal and copper.  Consumer
confidence  has been buoyed by political stability under
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono not seen since the ouster of
former dictator Suharto in 1998.  Larger Fund  TPG, run by billionaire  David Bonderman , has a permanent
minority stake in Northstar through a recent share swap, the
people said. Walujo and Glenn Sugita, the Jakarta-based founders
of Northstar, have become special advisers to  Fort Worth , Texas-
based TPG, the people said. Ashish Shastry, TPG’s head for
Southeast Asia, is joining Northstar and is becoming senior
adviser to TPG, the people said.  Walujo declined to comment on the share swap, as did Lisa Baker, a spokeswoman for TPG.  The size of Northstar’s third fund is almost three times
the $276 million raised by Indonesian private-equity funds last
year, according to the Center for Asia Private Equity Research.  TPG would put money into Northstar’s fund, called Northstar
Equity Partners III, Shastry said in an interview in December.  Indonesia  will have a “very large share” of TPG’s
investments in Southeast Asia in the future because of the size
of the economy, Shastry said then.  Singapore  had in the past
accounted for the largest portion of its investments in the
region, he said.  ‘Nascent Stage’  Northstar had generated almost $1.6 billion of equity
investments for itself and its partners, including TPG and
Government of Singapore Investment Corp., which manages
Singapore’s reserves, Walujo said in the same interview in
December.  Northstar and TPG’s biggest holdings in Indonesia include
PT Bank Tabungan Pensiunan Nasional, originally a lender to
retired civil servants, which opened about 500 micro-banking
branches in 2009. The stock rose to a record in August.  Saratoga Capital, one of Indonesia’s three biggest private-
equity firms, plans to raise $300 million for a new fund,
Sandiaga Uno, its co-founder, said last year.  London-based CVC’s 7.2 trillion rupiah ($812 million)
acquisition of the retail unit of Indonesia’s PT Matahari Putra
Prima last year was the biggest private-equity transaction in
Indonesia, according to the Center for  Asia  Private Equity
Research. CVC agreed in March to invest in PT First Media, a
Jakarta-based cable-television and Internet company, the biggest
private-equity investment in Southeast Asia in the first half of
this year, according to the research firm.  “Private equity in Indonesia remains at a very nascent
stage and will take a few more years to take off,” said the
research firm’s Ng. “The country’s capital market is still very
small and has yet proven to be conducive to exits for private
equity investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  