-- 
PGA Tour 2012 Golf Season Begins as College Football Picks Its Champion

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-10-19T18:54:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/pga-tour-2012-golf-season-begins-as-college-football-picks-its-champion.html
The U.S. PGA Tour golf schedule will
begin just as the college football season ends, under one of
several small changes for the 2012 season.  The final round of the tour’s season-opening event in
 Hawaii  is being moved to Monday, Jan. 9, from its typical Sunday
finish. The change will allow television partners to promote
both college football’s national championship game scheduled for
later that day and the tournament’s conclusion during coverage
of National Football League first-round playoff games the
previous two days.  The schedule will feature 45 official tournaments,
including 37 during the FedEx Cup regular season, the same
amount as this year, the tour said on its  website .  Changes also are being made to the former Bob Hope Classic
in Mid-January. The event, the Humana Challenge under new title
sponsor  Humana Inc. (HUM) , has been shortened to four days from five
and will feature one amateur player per group. Under the
previous format, the tournament featured pro-am teams, often
causing lengthy delays during play.  The Hilton Head,  South Carolina , event also will have a new
sponsor,  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , and return to its traditional
date, following the week of the  Masters Tournament , golf’s first
major championship of the season. The South Carolina tournament
will be known as the RBC Heritage.  Four tournaments will be staged on different courses,
including two of the tour’s four playoff events.  The Barclays 
event, the first of four season-ending tournaments to determine
the FedEx Cup champion, will be contested at Bethpage State
Park’s Black Course on  Long Island . The course hosted the 2002
and 2009 U.S. Opens. The BMW Championship, the third playoff
event, will be moved to Crooked Stick Golf Club in Indianapolis,
Indiana, for the first time.  Ryder Cup  The  Ryder Cup , a team event between the U.S. and  Europe ,
will be held at Medinah Country Club in Illinois on Sept. 28-30,
the week after the Tour Championship in Atlanta.  The other two changes will have the AT&T National, an event
hosted by  Tiger Woods , returning to Congressional Country Club
near  Washington  after a two-year hiatus, and the Canadian Open
moving to Hamilton Golf & Country Club in Ontario.  The season will end at the McGladrey Classic on St. Simon’s
Island, Georgia, on Oct. 18-21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  