-- 
Pick n Pay Stock Rises on ‘Relief’ at Dividend Payout Plan

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 
2011-10-19T16:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/pick-n-pay-stock-rises-on-relief-at-dividend-payout-plan-1-.html
Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. (PIK) , South
Africa’s second-largest grocer, rose to a one-month high after
the company announced plans for a limited dividend reduction and
an expansion strategy in Africa.  Pick n Pay gained 1.9 percent to 37.36 rand at the close in
Johannesburg, the highest price since Sept. 21. That pared the
stock’s decline in the past year to 12 percent.  “There is relief over the dividend, which is still at a
healthy payout ratio,”  David Shapiro , a director at
Johannesburg-based Sasfin Securities, said by phone. Pick n Pay
is “making changes and showing they have Africa plans.”  First-half net income fell 46 percent to 191 million rand
($24 million) because of the cost of introducing a customer-
loyalty program and developing a central distribution network,
the Cape Town-based company said in a stock-exchange statement
today. Sales rose 7.4 percent to 27.1 billion rand,  and Chief
Executive Nick Badminton said second-half revenue growth is set
to improve.  The interim dividend is being scaled back to 22.5 cents a
share from 37 cents a year earlier, in line with a drop in
headline earnings, which excludes one-time gains or costs, Pick
n Pay said.  Zimbabwe  Approval  The retailer also said it secured approval for the purchase
of an additional 20 percent stake in TM Supermarkets from
Zimbabwe’s Indigenization Board and that it plans to open more
stores in Zambia, Mauritius and Mozambique this year and in
2012.  “We have just under 100 new stores in the pipeline,
locally and in the rest of Africa,” Badminton said in an
interview. “Growth in Africa is going to take some time, but
the stores we have already opened are performing well.”  Pick n Pay, which is exiting  Australia  after selling its
Franklins unit to  Metcash Ltd. (MTS)  last month, is also considering
Malawi, the  Democratic Republic  of Congo and  Angola  as locations
for expansion, Badminton said.  The company’s first-half revenue growth exceeded the 3
percent increase posted by South Africa’s retail industry, and
has accelerated since the beginning of August, he said.  “Growth in the past six weeks has been above what we’ve
seen in the previous six months,” Badminton said. “I am pretty
confident our second half will be better than the first.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  