-- 
Polish Output Jumps 7.7%, Suggesting Rate Cut Not Needed

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-10-19T12:53:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/polish-september-output-growth-jumps-7-7-exceeds-forecast.html
Polish industrial-output growth
exceeded forecasts for a second month in September, showing the
economy isn’t yet suffering from the euro-area debt crisis and
bolstering expectations interest rates won’t fall.  Industrial output grew 7.7 percent from a year earlier,
after increasing 8.1 percent in August, the  Central Statistical
Office  in Warsaw said today. The figure compared with the median
estimate for a 5.2 percent increase in a Bloomberg survey of 22
economists. August’s production reading had also topped
economists’ median forecast of 2.7 percent. September output
rose 13 percent from the previous month.  The government has kept its 4 percent forecast for economic
growth this year and next even as the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development cut its forecast for Polish
growth to 2.2 percent next year and said economies in eastern
 Europe  would slow “substantially” on spillover from the euro
area’s woes. Poland’s central bank left the benchmark
seven-day  reference rate  unchanged this month at 4.5 percent.  “Today’s data are pretty optimistic,”  Maja Goettig , chief
economist at Bank BPH in Warsaw, said by phone. “The slowdown
is coming, but figures like this suggest things might not get as
bad as we thought.”  ‘Wait-and-See’  The zloty strengthened after the release and traded at
4.3318 per euro at 2:40 p.m. in Warsaw, up 0.4 percent on the
day. Polish two-year interest-rate swaps, which investors use to
lock in borrowing costs in the future, erased a decline
following the report to trade unchanged at 4.6 percent, up from
4.58 percent before the release.  “In the short term, we should adopt a wait-and-see stance
that may stretch into the beginning of next year,” central
banker Andrzej Bratkowski said in an interview on Oct. 17. “The
probability that we will see a rebound in GDP growth after two
or three quarters is greater than the likelihood that the
slowdown will continue.”  Poland ’s manufacturing growth slowed more than forecast in
September as export markets weakened. The purchasing managers’
index fell to 50.2 from 51.8 the previous month, according to a
survey published Oct. 3 by Markit Economics for HSBC Holdings
Plc. Any reading below 50 marks a contraction. The outlook for
growth in  Germany , Poland’s largest trading partner, is
worsening as companies cut their sales forecasts and foreign
orders decline, the Bundesbank in  Frankfurt  said on Oct. 17.  Producer prices, an early indicator of inflationary trends,
rose 8.1 percent from a year earlier in September, compared with
the median forecast of 7.5 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 20
economists, the statistics office reported today. Producer
prices rose 1.4 percent from the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  