-- 
Portugal’s Biggest Labor Unions Call Nov. 24 General Strike

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-10-19T13:15:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/portuguese-labor-group-cgtp-schedules-nov-24-general-strike.html
Portugal ’s biggest labor unions,
CGTP and UGT, scheduled a general strike for Nov. 24 to protest
against austerity measures the government is implementing as it
tries to meet  budget deficit  targets.  “It will be a big general strike in which we strongly
affirm ourselves against the increase in exploitation and
impoverishment,” Manuel Carvalho da Silva, CGTP’s secretary-
general, said today at a press conference in Lisbon. Before the
day of the strike, various demonstrations have been scheduled
around the country, he said.  The two trade unions organized the country’s first general
strike in 22 years on the same date last year as the previous
government announced austerity measures. Portugal requested a
bailout in April and its new Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho 
is cutting more spending and raising taxes further to meet terms
of a 78 billion euro ($108 billion) aid plan from the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  The austerity measures are hurting the economy and the
government forecasts gross domestic product will shrink 2.8
percent next year after a contraction of 1.9 percent this year.
The  Finance Ministry  estimates the  unemployment rate  will reach
13.4 percent in 2012 before it starts to decline in 2013.  Budget Overrun  To meet its budget goals, Portugal has to do more than it
initially planned,Passos Coelho said on Oct. 13. The overrun in
implementing the 2011 budget, relative to the financial aid
program’s forecast, exceeds 3 billion euros, he said. The
government has already announced a one-time income-tax surcharge
to help cover the budget shortfall this year.  The 2012 budget includes a plan to eliminate summer and
Christmas salary payments for state workers earning more than
1,000 euros a month. As mentioned in the financial aid program,
 tax deductions  will be reduced and the government plans to
increase the value-added tax rate of some goods.  An initial vote on the 2012 budget proposal is scheduled
for Nov. 4 and the final vote in parliament may take place on
Nov. 29. The coalition government is backed by the  Social
Democrats  and the  People’s Party , which together have a majority
of seats in the legislature.  The austerity measures are intended to help the government
meet its goal of trimming the budget deficit from 9.8 percent of
GDP in 2010 to 5.9 percent in 2011, and then 4.5 percent in
2012, before reaching the EU ceiling of 3 percent in 2013.  Improve Control  Portugal is “on track” to meet its 2011 deficit goal, a
team of EU and IMF inspectors said on Aug. 12. The IMF said in a
Sept. 13 report that the government needs to improve control
over expenditure and cut spending to meet targets as it seeks to
regain access to bond markets in 2013.  Last year’s general strike shut Lisbon’s metro and most
flights departing from Lisbon and Oporto airports were canceled.
 Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP) , Portugal’s biggest oil company, said its
refineries were operating normally on the day of the strike.  In  Athens  today, riot police in helmets used tear gas to
hold back demonstrators from the parliament building in the
Greek capital. The Greek police said about 70,000 people
gathered in Athens at the start of a 48-hour strike in one of
the biggest protests yet against that government’s program of
public-sector job cuts, tax increases and reductions in pensions
and wages.  “In Portugal workers have never had tumultuous behavior,”
Carvalho da Silva said. The 1974 revolution, which ended a four-
decade dictatorship, was not violent, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  