-- 
Protests Show Capitalism Losing ‘License to Operate,’ Blood Says

-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-10-19T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/protests-show-capitalism-losing-license-to-operate-blood-says.html
The protesters camping in  London  in
support of the Occupy  Wall Street  demonstrators may be right and
capitalism risks losing its “license to operate,” Generation
Investment Management LLP’s David Blood said.  Blood, who worked at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  for 18 years
before starting  fund manager  Generation with former U.S. Vice
President  Al Gore  in 2004, said the protesters’ message is that
the financial system is “broken” and “unfair.”  “In many respects, their concerns are right, and their
assessment of where we’ve got to is right,” Blood, 52, said
yesterday at a debate at  St. Paul’s Cathedral , London, near
where the protesters have gathered. “The problem is that
capitalism itself is broken or nearly broken.”  The financial industry is too focused on short-term gains
and flawed incentives that are eroding trust in the system,
Blood said. Generation seeks to maximize long-term returns by
investing in companies that prioritize social and environmental
factors as well as economic performance. The firm manages about
$6.5 billion, according to two people with knowledge of the
company, who declined to be identified because the information
isn’t made public.  “Unfortunately capitalism has a terrible, terrible name
now,” he said. “It’s possible that we will lose the license to
operate and then we will have a real problem.”  Outside the cathedral, protesters gathered for a fourth day
among tents and banners with slogans such as “capitalism is
crisis.” While shop owner Anna Boyle voiced concern about
environmental degradation, graphic designer Tina Borkowski
criticized bailouts of lenders as well as the Bank of England’s
asset purchase program, known as quantitative easing.  ‘Trickle Down’  “The bailout money and quantitative easing cash injections
were supposed to trickle down, but didn’t,” said Borkowski, 37.  The protesters are drawing both support and criticism from
political and business figures. U.S. President  Barack Obama  said
in an interview with ABC News that the public’s frustration is
evident in the Occupy Wall Street protests. Republican
presidential candidate  Herman Cain  has said protestors should
blame themselves, not Wall Street, if they don’t have jobs and
aren’t rich.  “It’s sort of a glib way to push them off as if to say
they’re not really very important,” Blood said. “Many of them
aren’t saying that business and capitalism are inherently evil.
They’re just simply saying that the way it is currently
functioning is not working, it’s not right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay in Paris at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  