-- 
Prysmian, Nexans Challenge EU Over Unlawful Raids, Copied Disks

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-10-19T17:05:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/prysmian-nexans-challenge-eu-over-unlawful-raids-copied-disks.html
Prysmian SpA (PRY)  said European Union
antitrust officials copied executives’ computer hard drives
during antitrust raids without explaining why they needed the
data, harming its ability to defend itself in the case.  The European Commission’s formal decision to order
inspections in 2009 failed to adequately define the goal of the
raid, during which officials mined the contents of entire hard
drives of several managers, a lawyer for the company told a
hearing at the EU’s second-highest court.  The company was put in a position of “grave uncertainty”
about its defenses, Claudio Tesauro, a lawyer for Prysmian, told
a three-judge panel of the EU General Court in Luxembourg today.  Prysmian and  Nexans SA (NEX) , two companies the commission is
investigating for their alleged collusion in a power cable
cartel, want the court to annul as illegal the regulator’s
January 2009 decision under which the antitrust raids were
ordered. In July this year, the companies said they received EU
antitrust complaints over allegations of price-fixing for
undersea and underground high-voltage power cables.  Prysmian lawyer Tesauro said the EU antitrust complaint, or
statement of objections, showed the commission had focused
exclusively on high-tension cables, a fact the company wasn’t
aware of in the wake of the 2009 raids.  The commission showed a lack of precision in its formal
decision ordering the raids, by saying the inspections concerned
electric cables, said Tesauro, a lawyer with law firm Bonelli
Erede Pappalardo. That affected Prysmian’s ability to defend
itself, he said.  Company’s Defense  The commission’s inspection decision is important “because
at the moment of a raid that’s the only reference a company has
to evaluate how it can defend itself,” he said.  Taking copies of the hard drives was a “preparatory act”
for the commission’s probe that could result in a finding of an
infringement of antitrust rules, said Vittorio di Bucci, a
lawyer for the Brussels-based commission.  As to defining the goal of the inspection, di Bucci said
giving companies more details “would risk seriously interfering
with the inspections.”  “The company in this case knew exactly what the commission
had taken” which should have given it an indication what the
probe focused on.  The cases are: T-140/09, Prysmian, Prysmian Cavi and
Sistemi Energia v. Commission, T-135/09, Nexans  France  and
Nexans v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  