-- 
Puerto Rico Agency Overhauls May Pose ‘Budget Risk,’ Government Study Says

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-10-19T16:40:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/puerto-rico-agency-overhauls-may-pose-budget-risk-government-study-says.html
Puerto Rico ’s spending on health
care and public safety pose “budget risks” because of
operational changes this fiscal year, which had a $610 million
deficit, according to a government report.  Because part of the commonwealth’s Medicaid program is
being shifted to a contractor, departmentmental costs may rise,
the Management and Budget Office said yesterday in the report.
It said police agencies on the Caribbean island located east of
the  Dominican Republic  also are evaluating U.S. Justice
Department recommendations that may lead to cost overruns.  “Since they are undergoing operational reforms that were
not considered during the preparation and formulation of the
budget,” both departments pose risks to the plan, according to
the report. The commonwealth is a self-governing U.S. territory.  Extra potential police-department costs are less than 0.25
percent of the overall budget and could be made up for with
savings in other areas, Juan Carlos Pavia, director of the
budget office, said in an interview.  While “it’s too early to tell” what impact changes in the
Medicaid system would have, the territory is putting cost-
control measures in place to offset or minimize the risk, he
said.  “More than a budget risk, it was a new development,” he
said by telephone from  San Juan , the capital.  Under Budget  Overall, Puerto Rico is under budget for the quarter and
payroll costs, which have been the major source of budget
problems in the past, are “contained,” he said.  For the fiscal first quarter, the territorial government
spent 1 percent less than planned as some bills didn’t arrive
when projected, according to the budget office.  Puerto Rico, with lower credit ratings than any U.S. state,
is coping with a shrinking economy. In August, the island’s
economic activity index  fell  about 2.1 percent from a year
earlier. On a month-to-month basis, the index has sagged since
March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Tallahassee at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  