-- 
Queen’s Law Firm Knew About News Corp. Hacking Lie to U.K. Lawmakers

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-10-19T18:04:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/queen-s-law-firm-knew-of-news-corp-hacking-lie-to-lawmakers.html
Farrer & Co. , the law firm whose
clients include  Queen Elizabeth II , knew  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit
lied to Parliament in 2009 about the extent of phone hacking at
its British tabloid and didn’t take action.  News Corp. had evidence hacking was widespread when it told
Parliament two years ago that a “rogue” reporter at the News
of the World was to blame, Farrer & Co. lawyer Julian Pike told
lawmakers today. He also revealed a previously undisclosed May
2008 meeting at which he said James Murdoch was told about
phone-hacking at the paper, in addition to the June 2008 meeting
about which other company executives had testified.  The situation was “not ideal,” Pike said when asked by
lawmakers whether the queen’s  law firm  should let other clients
lie to Parliament. “I don’t think it caused me any professional
embarrassment. I do behave with integrity.”  The firm, which negotiated the company’s first settlement
with a hacking victim in 2008, was dropped by News Corp. two
days ago after it said it needed to consolidate its legal
representation in dozens of lawsuits.  The evidence centered around an e-mail produced by police
during settlement talks with hacking victim  Gordon Taylor , the
head of the Professional Footballers’ Association, which showed
transcripts of hacked voice mails had been passed around the
News of the World newsroom. The e-mail showed wrongdoing went
beyond the tabloid’s royal reporter  Clive Goodman  and private
investigator  Glenn Mulcaire , who were both jailed in 2007.  Three More  Farrer & Co., which saw the internal e-mail in April 2008,
concluded it incriminated three more reporters. Still, it didn’t
advise New York-based News Corp. against misleading Parliament
when executives from the company gave written and oral testimony
the next year, Pike said. The police already had the evidence
and Farrer & Co. is “not party to any cover-up,” he said.  “It’s a disgrace,” Labour lawmaker Paul Farrelly said
after the hearing. “If I were the queen, I’d be looking for a
firm with a great deal more integrity than Farrer’s.”  Pike wrote in a 2008 letter to Tom Crone, the newspaper’s
lawyer until July, that “there was a powerful case to support a
culture of illegal accessing of information in order to obtain
stories,” he said today.  The law firm advised News International to pay 425,000
($673,000) pounds to Taylor, even though other disputes over
privacy violations might garner about 30,000 pounds, Pike said.
 Mark Lewis , who represented Taylor in the 2008 settlement, told
the committee the size of the payment showed the company wanted
to keep the extent of the newspaper’s hacking quiet.  ‘No Way’  “There was no way the case was worth that amount,” Lewis
said.  James Murdoch, 38, and his father Rupert, 80, were
questioned by the parliamentary committee July 19. The lawmakers
have recalled the younger Murdoch, News Corp.’s deputy chief
operating officer, to give more testimony after his statements
were challenged by Crone and  Colin Myler , the newspaper’s former
editor. The panel also asked  Les Hinton , the former chairman of
the News International unit, to testify on Oct. 24.  “ James Murdoch  would like to give the impression to you
that he’s mildly incompetent, rather than thoroughly
dishonest,” Lewis, who now represents dozens of phone-hacking
victims, said to lawmakers today.  Lewis had asked for as much as 1 million pounds for Taylor
in the 2008 settlement after the evidence was disclosed.  Chief Reporter  Crone and Myler disputed James Murdoch’s statement that he
wasn’t told about the incriminating e-mail when he approved the
Taylor settlement. The document, a transcript of voice mails
typed by a reporter at the newspaper and marked “for Neville,”
were understood to be a reference to Neville Thurlbeck, the
paper’s chief reporter who was later fired.  Crone and Myler said they discussed the e-mail with Murdoch
at a meeting on June 10, 2008, as it was the reason for settling
the case.  Pike contradicted James Murdoch’s written and oral
testimony to the committee by saying Murdoch was told about the
Taylor case at a previously undisclosed meeting with Myler, on
May 27, 2008. He said Crone had prepared a briefing note for
Myler, copied to Pike, which discussed the e-mail.  The News of the World was shut in July after evidence
emerged that reporters hacked into the voice mail of a murdered
schoolgirl, hampering a police search. About 60 lawsuits by
celebrities and other victims are under way, while
investigations into the hacking have resulted in at least 16
people being arrested, including Thurlbeck and former News
International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 