-- 
Rajaratnam Friend Goel’s Sentencing Postponed Until January

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-10-19T16:52:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/rajaratnam-friend-goel-s-sentencing-postponed-until-jan-20.html
Rajiv Goel, a former  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
managing director who testified at the insider-trading trial of
his onetime friend  Raj Rajaratnam , will be sentenced Jan. 20 for
his crimes, a judge said.  Goel had been set to be sentenced in  Manhattan  federal
court last month. In response to a letter from prosecutors
seeking a delay, U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell yesterday
set the January date. The decision was posted on the docket
today.  Goel pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud in
February 2010, and testified in March against the Galleon Group
LLC co-founder in a bid for leniency. Goel said he had known
Rajaratnam for 25 years and said he told him about Intel’s
earnings in 2007 and a $1 billion transaction in 2008.  The top penalty for  insider trading  is 20 years in prison,
prosecutors said at the time of Goel’s plea. Rajaratnam, 54, the
central figure in what U.S. investigators called the largest
hedge fund insider trading case in U.S. history, was sentenced
to 11 years in prison on Oct. 13.  Goel said he and Rajaratnam became friends at the Wharton
School at the  University of Pennsylvania , from which they
graduated in 1983, and grew close over ensuing years. The
families vacationed together, said Goel, a native of Mumbai.  Goel, who worked in Intel’s treasury unit, was arrested
along with Rajaratnam in 2009, charged with passing tips about a
firm that Santa Clara, California-based Intel made an investment
in as well information about Intel’s $1 billion investment in a
new wireless network company formed by Clearwire Corp. and
Sprint Nextel Corp.  As a result of these tips, Rajaratnam made at least
$579,000 in profit, prosecutors said. In return, Rajaratnam
placed trades in a personal brokerage account maintained by
Goel, according to Goel.  The case is U.S. v. Goel, 10-cr-90, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  