-- 
Rambus Jury Reviews More Testimony at Hynix-Micron Trial

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-10-19T19:15:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/rambus-jury-asks-to-review-more-testimony-at-hynix-micron-trial.html
The jury deliberating whether  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  conspired to push
Rambus Inc. out of the memory-chip market reviewed trial
testimony by Farhad Tabrizi, a former Hynix executive.  California Superior Court Judge James McBride in  San
Francisco  said today that the 12-member jury, which has been
deliberating since Sept. 22, requested information about
Tabrizi’s testimony that he was “pressured to become more
upbeat about” Rambus-designed dynamic random access memory
chips, or RDRAM, at a May 2000 chip industry forum. Rambus
lawyers questioned Tabrizi, a former Hynix vice president of
worldwide marketing, “extensively” about whether his
enthusiasm was “genuine,” McBride said.  McBride said in his chambers that he reviewed testimony
excerpts with lawyers from both sides to be read back to the
jury.  “We know that Mr. Tabrizi was not the most terse
witness,” and that he “tended to fold in a lot of topics in
any answer,” which produced objections from lawyers during
trial, McBride said. “The jury in its collective wisdom will
ask further questions” if the testimony isn’t satisfactory, the
judge said.  Rambus, based in Sunnyvale,  California , contends that
Boise, Idaho-based Micron and Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix
colluded to cut the prices of their own SDRAM, or synchronous
dynamic random access memory, chips and deserted their
commitment to produce RDRAM, relegating it to a niche role.  $3.95 Billion  Rambus contends it would have earned $3.95 billion in
royalties without the alleged conspiracy. Under California law,
a jury finding of damages in that amount would be automatically
tripled to $11.9 billion.  Lawyers for Hynix and Micron argued that Rambus has only
itself to blame, not collusion by rivals, for the flaws and
production delays that led to the failure of its product to
become an industry standard.  At trial, which began June 8, Tabrizi was asked whether he
was promoted to vice president of worldwide marketing after
engaging in a campaign from 1995 to 1998 that he called “RDRAM
killing.”  Tabrizi said the term meant that he promoted an “open
standard” for DRAM in opposition to Rambus’s proprietary and
licensed product.  Rambus lawyer Bart Williams asked Tabrizi about a 1998
e-mail to a colleague responding to an  Intel Corp. (INTC)  request for
Hynix’s estimates of its quarter-by-quarter RDRAM production.
“My recommendation is to show bigger number than actual plan,
maybe even two to three times,” Tabrizi wrote in the message.  Production Numbers  Tabrizi testified that, if he provided Intel with the
actual production numbers, Intel would have produced fewer
processors compatible with RDRAM. “Intel wanted to create an
over-supply of RDRAM so the prices go artificially low, and I
didn’t want to give that pleasure to Intel,” Tabrizi said.  Williams asked Tabrizi if he suggested during an October
1998 meeting that representatives of other chip manufacturers,
including Micron, should overstate RDRAM production.  “It’s possible,” Tabrizi said. “I don’t deny it.”  The case is  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  v. Micron Technology Inc., 04-
0431105, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  