-- 
Rand Gains First Day in Three to Dollar as Europe Bets Boost Risk Appetite

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-10-19T12:51:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/rand-strenthens-first-time-in-three-days-as-europe-bets-spur-risk-appetite.html
The rand strengthened against the
dollar for the first day in three after reports that  France  and
 Germany  are nearing a deal to boost Europe’s rescue fund whet
investor appetite for riskier, emerging-market assets.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated as
much as 0.7 percent to 7.9390 per dollar and traded up 0.1
percent at 7.9920 as of 2:26 p.m. Johannesburg time.  The rand’s advance tracked gains in emerging-market stocks
and commodity prices after the London-based  Guardian newspaper 
reported that Germany and France had agreed to boost the
region’s rescue fund to 2 trillion euros ($2.8 trillion) before
a summit this weekend. The rand maintained gains as South
African inflation accelerated in August and retail-sales growth
beat economists’ estimates, damping expectations of an interest-
rate cut that would erode the nation’s yield advantage.  “The worst of the current crisis is behind us and short of
some calamitous events out of  Europe , the probability is high
that risk aversion subsides slightly,” Tradition Analytics
strategists led by Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in e-mailed
comments.  Consumer inflation accelerated an annual 5.7 percent in
September from 5.3 percent in August, Pretoria-based Statistics
South Africa said on its website today. The median estimate of
19 economists was for inflation to quicken to 5.6 percent.
Retail sales rose 7.1 percent from a year earlier, more than the
revised 3 percent growth in July and beating the 5.2 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 14 economists.  Rate-Cut Chances  The central bank, which aims to keep inflation between 3
and 6 percent, will “act appropriately” in the event of a
significant slowdown in global growth, Governor Gill Marcus said
on Sept. 22. The bank has kept its benchmark rate at a 35-year
low of 5.5 percent since November.  “The higher inflation number means the chance of an
interest-rate cut is put off, maybe indefinitely, and that makes
the rand more attractive,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury
strategic research at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, a unit
of  South Africa ’s fourth-biggest bank, said by phone.  Forward-rate agreements starting after the next MPC meeting
in November rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 5.51 percent today. The rate has climbed 10 basis points in
the past week as investors pared rate cut bets.  South Africa’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 gained for the
first day in three, pushing the yield down seven basis points to
8.101 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  