-- 
Travelers Increases Subprime Bet Most Since 2007 After Market ‘Disruption

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-10-19T20:16:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/travelers-increases-subprime-bet-after-disruption-in-market.html
Travelers Cos., the insurer that
remained profitable through the 2008 credit crisis, is
increasing bets on subprime and alternative-documentation
mortgages after securities backed by the assets fell in value.  Travelers bought $62 million of bonds tied to such loans in
the third quarter, its biggest addition of the assets since
2007, according to company filings. That compares with $36
million in the first six months of the year and $31 million in
all of 2010. The insurer said the purchases reflected its plan
of seeking “risk-reward balance” in its $73 billion portfolio.  “The disruption in secondary investment markets for
mortgage-backed securities provided the company with the
opportunity to selectively acquire additional such securities at
discounted prices,” the New York-based insurer said in a
regulatory filing today.  Investors shunned riskier bonds in the quarter as  Standard
& Poor’s  downgraded the U.S., and  Europe  grappled with a debt
crisis. Defaults on subprime mortgages soared to records after
banks used lax underwriting and sometimes false information to
make loans to people with the riskiest credit records during the
housing boom.  Estimated prices for certain subprime-mortgage securities
rated AAA when issued in 2007 fell more than 8 percent to about
31 cents on the dollar last quarter, while some similar bonds
backed by adjustable-rate Alt-A mortgages fell more than 7
percent to about 46 cents, JPMorgan Chase & Co. data show.  ‘Risk-Reward Balance’  The overall fair value of Travelers’ investments in the
securities backed by subprime and alternative-documentation
mortgages was $340 million as of Sept. 30, compared with $297
million at the end of 2010. The average  credit rating  on the
securities was Baa1, three levels above junk.  “Relative to the $2.7 billion of securities we purchased
in the quarter and our portfolio of more than $73 billion, this
is insignificant and consistent with our strategy of seeking
investments with an appropriate risk-reward balance in
all of our asset classes,” Travelers said in an e-mailed
statement. “There is no change in strategy or tactics here.”  Travelers held $39.3 billion in state and municipal bonds
and more than $16 billion in corporate debt as of Sept. 30.
Those types of bonds outperformed mortgage securities in the
credit crisis, helping Travelers remain profitable in 2008 and
2009 while rival American International Group Inc. needed a
bailout after losses on subprime bonds.  Travelers’ net investment income fell to $561 million in
the third quarter from $597 million a year earlier, as the
company reinvested cash from maturing bonds in lower-yielding
assets. The  Federal Reserve  has said it may keep  interest rates 
near zero until mid-2013, pressuring investors’ returns.  Yield Curve  “The biggest issue for all insurers is the yield curve is
flattened and rates are very, very low and they look like
they’re going to be low for some time,” said Paul Newsome, an
analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, in a phone interview.  Travelers rallied $2.93, or 5.7 percent, to $54.39, the
biggest gain in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , after
reporting an increase in third-quarter policy sales and saying
that it was raising prices for clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  