-- 
Travelers Gains as Policy Sales Climb, Insurance Rates Increase

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-10-19T14:09:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/travelers-profit-falls-67-after-hurricane-irene-adds-to-catastrophe-costs.html
Travelers Cos. posted the largest
gain in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  after the insurer
reported an increase in third-quarter policy sales and said it
was raising rates for clients.  The insurer advanced $2.86, or 5.6 percent, to $54.32 at
10:05 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
biggest jump since August.  Chief Executive Officer Jay Fishman is charging more for
coverage as the insurer copes with higher catastrophe costs and
near record-low  interest rates  crimp investment income. Net
income slipped to $333 million, or 79 cents a share, from $1.01
billion, or $2.11, a year earlier, the New York-based insurer
said today in a statement.  “It is all about rate,” Fishman said on a conference call
with analysts today.  Third-quarter policy sales climbed to $5.67 billion from
$5.46 billion a year. Renewing clients at the commercial
accounts segment paid 5 percent more in premium in the period,
compared with a 1 percent decline a year earlier, the company
said in a  presentation  on its website.  Catastrophes, led by  Hurricane Irene , cost Travelers $394
million in the three months ended Sept. 30 after tax and net of
reinsurance, compared with $77 million a year earlier.  The  insurance industry  faced about $70 billion of losses
from natural disasters and man-made catastrophes in the first
half, according to Swiss Re, the world’s second-largest
reinsurer. That makes 2011 already the second-most costly year
for insurers, surpassed by 2005, when  Hurricane Katrina 
contributed to $120 billion in claims.  ‘Additional Rate Increases’  “By incorporating the last two years of actual experience
into our long-term averages, our expectations of weather losses
in this business has increased,” Chief Operating Officer Brian MacLean said on the call. “In response we will be driving for
additional rate increases as well as adjusting terms and
conditions and looking for higher deductibles.”  Net investment income fell to $561 million from $597
million a year earlier. Industrywide, portfolio returns are
under pressure as higher-yielding bonds mature and proceeds are
reinvested at lower rates, said  Mark Dwelle , an analyst at RBC
Capital Markets. The  Federal Reserve , led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , has said that it may keep benchmark rates near zero
through mid-2013 as long as unemployment remains high and the
inflation outlook stays “subdued.”  Insurers are facing a “reinvestment problem,” said
Dwelle, who has an “outperform” rating on Travelers. “Clearly
it will remain a challenge for at least 18 more months if Mr.
Bernanke has it right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut@bloomberg.net . 