-- 
RBA’s Edey Says Australian Bank Exposure to EU Debt Is ‘Limited’

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-10-19T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/rba-s-edey-says-australian-bank-exposure-to-eu-debt-is-limited-.html
Australian banks have limited
holdings of sovereign debt in nations most at risk in  Europe ,
without being “entirely immune” from the turmoil, a  Reserve
Bank  of  Australia  official said.  “Australian banks have only limited direct exposures to
sovereign debt in the countries that are most at risk,”
Assistant Governor Malcolm Edey said in prepared remarks for a
speech in Sydney today. “So potential effects on Australian
banks’ overall asset quality are not an issue.”  The European debt crisis has dimmed prospects for growth
around the world including in Australia, the only developed
economy to avoid the 2009 global recession. The  Reserve Bank of
Australia  has indicated it has scope to reduce the benchmark
interest rate from a developed-world high of 4.75 percent if
needed as a slower domestic expansion eases inflation concern.  In his prepared remarks, Edey didn’t address the state of
the Australian economy or monetary policy in the address.  Since the implosion of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in
2008, the Australian banking system has bolstered its capacity
to withstand international financial-market shocks, the RBA said
in its half-yearly financial stability review last month.  “Australian banks have done a lot to strengthen their
funding positions,” Edey said today. “They have increased
their use of domestic deposits as a funding source, lengthened
the average term of their wholesale funding, and correspondingly
reduced their reliance on short-term wholesale debt. These
things will help to make them more resilient to the
uncertainties that are now affecting international credit
markets.”  Regulatory Changes  Speaking to the 2011 ISDA Annual Australia Conference, Edey
also addressed pending regulatory changes in the aftermath of
the 2008-09 global financial crisis.  The largest part of the nation’s over-the-counter
derivatives market is single-currency  interest-rate  swaps, the
bulk of which are denominated in Australian dollars, with
notional principal amounts outstanding at around A$8 trillion
for the banking system, he said.  “Where a market is systemically important to the
Australian economy and financial system, this points to a case
for the central counterparty that clears it to be subject to
appropriate safeguards that control the propagation of risks to
domestic participants,” Edey said. “This might be best
achieved where the CCP is locally incorporated and subject to
domestic regulation” and balanced against the case for an
offshore approach, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  