-- 
RBC Capital Tops Brendan Wood Analyst Survey for Second Year

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-19T20:28:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/rbc-capital-tops-brendan-wood-analyst-survey-for-second-year.html
RBC Capital Markets  said it ranked
first for equity research in  Canada  for the second year in a row
in an annual survey by Brendan Wood International.  “It’s really been a tremendous effort by a lot of
people,” said Richard Talbot, 47, co-head of global research
for RBC Capital Markets. “We’ve been on a pretty concerted
effort to build up a first-rate research team.”  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ’s investment-banking unit also had 18
“TopGun” analysts, the most among all the firms in the survey,
the Toronto-based lender said today in an e-mailed statement. A
“TopGun” analyst is one who finishes in the top three in their
individual sector, the bank said.  Andre-Philippe Hardy, who came to RBC in 2007 from Merrill
Lynch, was the top-ranked bank analyst for a second time.
Geoffrey Kwan took the top spot for diversified financials and
Neil Downey earned the No. 1 ranking in real estate. Drew McReynolds, who covers media, Douglas Miehm, who follows biotech
and health care, and transportation analyst  Walter Spracklin 
also earned top place.  Johann Rodrigues, a Brendan Wood spokesman, said the firm
doesn’t publicly release its survey results. The survey of 286
money managers and buy-side analysts was conducted during the 12
months ended Aug. 31, he said.  RBC’s Staff  RBC has about 350 research staff including analysts,
associates and strategists worldwide covering more than 1,400
companies, according to Talbot, who joined the firm in 1993 when
there were less than 20 people in the research group. RBC is
building up coverage in mining, energy, financials and
infrastructure in Europe and  Australia , he said.  “We want to focus on really being good and adding value in
those areas at the moment,” Talbot said in a telephone
interview from  London . “We do not want to be all things to all
people in the European market.”  RBC Capital Markets first topped the annual survey in 2010,
ending a 29-year streak held by BMO Capital Markets.  “We definitely view this as an important data point,”
Talbot said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  