-- 
Rice May Rally as Thai Floods, State Buying Hand Export Advantage to India

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-10-19T08:15:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/rice-may-rally-as-thai-floods-state-buying-hand-export-advantage-to-india.html
Rice may advance 19 percent after
floods cut supplies in  Southeast Asia , including in the biggest
shipper Thailand, and that nation’s government started a state-
purchasing program, according to the country’s largest packer.  The price of Thai parboiled rice may climb to $750 per
metric ton on a free-on-board basis by year-end from $630, while
the same product from  India  may gain to $500 per ton from $480,
C.P. Intertrade Co. President Sumeth Laomoraphorn said in an
interview in Bangkok. Parboiled rice is soaked, steamed and
dried before milling, a technique that preserves vitamins.  Costlier rice may push up global food costs and elevate
inflation, complicating the task for the world’s central bankers
as they seek to sustain economic growth hurt by the euro zone
debt crisis. Indian suppliers may benefit from sales not met by
 Thailand  and the South Asian nation may become the world’s
second-largest supplier, Sumeth, 50, said on Oct. 17.  “Thailand seems to have suffered the biggest damage,”
Samarendu Mohanty, a senior economist at the International Rice
Research Institute, said from Los Banos, the Philippines
yesterday. While Thai parboiled prices may rise 10 percent at
most, India will boost shipments, Mohanty said by phone.  Thailand has been battling the worst flooding in five
decades and the waters have hurt crops, damaged infrastructure
and killed more than 300 people. The inundation may cut output
of unmilled rice by 3.5 million tons, the Thai Rice Exporters
Association said on Oct. 17. That’s 10 percent of last year’s
harvest, according to Bloomberg calculations.  ‘High Prices’  “We will see high prices until at least March,” said
Sumeth, whose company is a unit of Bangkok-based Charoen
Pokphand Group,  Asia ’s biggest animal-feed producer. “India’s
loading capacities at ports won’t be able to cope.”  Rough-rice in  Chicago , which has rallied 17 percent over
the past year, traded at $16.33 per 100 pounds at 4:03 p.m. in
Singapore. Thailand’s 100 percent grade-B variety, a benchmark
that’s priced weekly, was set at $619 per ton on Oct. 12.  Parboiled and white-rice grades each account for about 35
percent of Thailand’s total shipments, according to the Thai
Rice Exporters Association. African buyers accounted for 49
percent of all Thai shipments last year, according to the group.  Rice prices will also be driven higher by the Thai
government’s new price-support program, Sumeth said, restating
comments by exporters that the policy introduced this month by
Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra will elevate costs.  Rural Incomes  The government has started paying 15,000 baht ($488) per
ton for white rice and 20,000 baht per ton for jasmine rice,
higher than market rates. While the program is intended to
bolster rural incomes, exporters have said it will boost prices
and erode Thailand’s competitiveness, favoring rival shippers.  “The Thai price-support policy impact on exports will be
greater than the floods,” said Mohanty, the economist at the
rice institute. “This is the market that is still finding a
balance between the Thai shortfall and India’s excess supply.”  Thailand’s rice exports will drop to about 8 million tons
next year, compared with 10.5 million tons this year, according
to  estimates  from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  on Oct. 12.
Shipments from India, the third-largest exporter, were revised 1
million tons higher to 4.5 million tons next year.  Export Demand  India will be able to draw on its estimated 22 million tons
of inventories, which were built up during a suspension of
exports of non-basmati rice, to meet the increased export demand,
said Sumeth, who’s spent three decades at the CP Group.  India’s government, which banned private companies from
shipping non-basmati rice in April 2008 amid a global food
crisis, removed curbs on Sept. 8. Exports may total 4 million
tons in the year from April 1, Vijay Setia, president of the All
India Rice Exporters Association, said on Sept. 13.  “I estimate the nation to ship about 2 million tons in the
six months ending March,” said Sumeth. “India may become the
world’s second-largest rice exporter next year.”  Vietnam  was the world’s second-largest shipper last year,
exporting 6.7 million tons, according to data from the USDA.
India shipped 2 million tons and Thailand exported 9 million.  Southeast Asia’s rice production may be cut by about 4
million tons because of the floods, with projected losses in
Thailand of 3.5 million tons, said Pawan Kumar, a Singapore-
based analyst at Rabobank International.  “About 4 million tons of rice will be out of the export
pool,” said Kumar. Still, high so-called ending stockpiles in
Thailand and the possibility of additional exports from India
can potentially balance out the market, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  Singapore  at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  