-- 
RIM Courts Silicon Valley App Developers With ‘Evangelists’

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-10-20T14:59:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/rim-courts-silicon-valley-app-developers.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , losing
ground in a market that its BlackBerry smartphone helped to
build, is adding developer “evangelists” in Silicon Valley to
change perceptions about the company’s prospects and promote a
new operating system.  RIM’s developer team has been too concentrated at the
company’s headquarters in Waterloo, Ontario, said Alec Saunders,
RIM’s new head of developer relations, in an interview this week
in San Francisco. Saunders, who joined RIM last month, declined
to say how many people will be hired or relocate to the Bay
Area, home to competitors  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Saunders’s challenge is to convince developers -- who are
happy to build mobile-device applications for Apple’s iOS
operating system and Google’s Android -- to embrace BlackBerry.
Developers should ignore RIM’s 50 percent drop in U.S. sales
last quarter and focus on the opportunity presented by rising
BlackBerry demand overseas and an increase in RIM subscribers to
about 70 million worldwide, from 50 million a year ago, he said.  “I want a team on the ground here in Silicon Valley, going
to developer events and meeting with developers all the time,”
Saunders said while attending his company’s BlackBerry DevCon
conference. “There’s a giant perception gap. Nobody is telling
our story and even we weren’t telling our story.”  Out of Time  The company introduced its BlackBerry BBX operating system
on Oct. 18, combining features from the existing BlackBerry
platform and the QNX software it bought last year. The system,
which doesn’t have a release date, includes new programming
tools like HTML5 designed to make building apps easier.  “RIM provided a clear vision for the future of their
development platform,” said Kunal Gupta, chief executive
officer of Polar Mobile, a Toronto-based developer of publishing
apps for magazines including Time and  Sports Illustrated . “It’s
the right approach to build excitement.”  Even with these improvements, RIM may be running out of
time to catch up to the larger developer communities built
around iOS and Android, according to Chirag Patel, who runs
Corsoft Corp., a  San Mateo , California-based developer of apps
including emergency-assistance program ICEcare.  “There’s a lot of merit” to HTML5 and other BBX features,
Patel said. “But I think it’s too little too late.”  Tavis McCourt, a Morgan Keegan & Co. analyst in Nashville,
 Tennessee , agreed.  “RIM is clearly becoming much more developer friendly,”
said McCourt, who rates RIM shares “market perform.” “One
wonders if it is too little too late, at least in the U.S.”  Market Share  BlackBerry’s share of U.S. smartphone subscribers fell to
20 percent in the quarter through August from 25 percent three
months earlier, according to data released this month by Reston,
Virginia-based ComScore Inc. Cupertino, California-based Apple’s
iOS rose 0.7 percentage points to 27.3 percent, while Android
climbed to 44 percent from 38 percent.  There are more than 250,000 apps available from Google’s
Android Market, about six times as many as in RIM’s App World.  “While BBX should provide substantial improvements, it
will struggle to compete” with Apple and Google, said  Michael Walkley , an analyst in  Minneapolis  at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. who
rates RIM a “hold.”  RIM fell 0.4 percent to $22.23 at 10:58 a.m. New York time.
The stock has lost about 62 percent of its market value this
year as sales of BlackBerry handsets and PlayBook tablets have
been lower than some analysts’ forecasts. PlayBook deliveries to
retailers including Best Buy Co. fell to 200,000 units last
quarter from 500,000 the previous quarter. Apple shipped 9.25
million of the market-leading iPad in its past quarter.  ‘Best We Can’  The PlayBook suffered from criticism by users that the
device lacked dedicated e-mail, calendar and contacts programs.
RIM has promised those features in an upgrade called PlayBook OS
2.0 without saying when that version will be available to
customers.  “We know the No. 1 reason the PlayBook sales haven’t been
where we want them to be is the lack of native e-mail, the No. 2
reason is there aren’t enough apps,”  Larry McDonough , manager
of RIM’s hand-held software team, told reporters yesterday. “So
we’re attacking that as best we can.”  The company offered a more extensive view yesterday of how
software designed to let developers easily convert Android apps
into BlackBerry apps will work. Developers can test apps they’ve
built for Android on the PlayBook at a booth at the conference
in  San Francisco .  Saunders has given McDonough, who works out of RIM’s office
in  Redwood City ,  California  -- 15 miles from Google’s
headquarters in  Mountain View  -- the task of leading
BlackBerry’s developer drive in Silicon Valley.  Ground Zero   In the weeks since Saunders joined RIM, McDonough said he’s
been going to every Android event he can to raise awareness of
the PlayBook and “show people what we can do.”  “It’s ground zero right here,” McDonough, said in an
interview. “Everything that’s happening in mobile software
innovation globally, 90 percent of it is happening right here.”  Patel, who’s considering developing an education app for
the PlayBook, said lackluster sales of the tablet make “the
incentive a lot less” than developing the app for Apple’s iPad.  The effort to court developers “are things that should’ve
been done long before,” when the iPhone was introduced in 2007,
Patel said. “The best days have, I think, passed them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in San Francisco at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  