-- 
Rio Tinto Offers $567 Million for Uranium Explorer Hathor to Trump Cameco

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-10-19T22:49:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/rio-tinto-offers-572-million-for-uranium-explorer-hathor-to-trump-cameco.html
Rio Tinto Group, the world’s fourth-
largest uranium producer, agreed to pay C$578 million ($567
million) to acquire Canadian uranium explorer  Hathor Exploration
Ltd. (HAT) , trumping a hostile bid by  Cameco Corp. (CCO)   Shareholders of Vancouver-based Hathor would receive C$4.15
a share, Rio said yesterday in a statement. The bid represents a
55 percent premium to Hathor’s closing share price on Aug. 25,
the day before Cameco made its C$3.75-a-share offer.  Hathor’s board unanimously recommended investors accept the
latest bid, London-based Rio said. Hathor, which controls the
undeveloped Roughrider uranium deposit in northern Saskatchewan,
previously said investors should reject Cameco’s “predatory”
offer.  Acquiring Hathor would boost Rio’s global uranium strategy
and complement existing exploration assets in the Canadian
province of Saskatchewan, Rio said in the statement. The
company’s Australian uranium unit, Energy Resources of Australia
Ltd., has been battling declining production of the raw material
in nuclear fuel because of lower grades and bad weather at its
Ranger mine in the Northern Territory.  If completed, the Hathor deal would be the most expensive
uranium acquisition since the end of 2008 as measured by the
dollar value divided by indicated and inferred pounds of uranium
in the ground, according to data published in August by  Raymond
James  Ltd. Rio is paying about $9.88 a pound for Hathor’s 57.9
million-pound lode, more than the $9.82 that Rosatom Corp.’s
ARMZ Uranium Holding Co. paid for Mantra Resources Ltd. in June,
according to Raymond James.  Roughrider Deposit  The size of the Roughrider deposit is expected to expand to
about 78 million pounds based on pending exploration results,
Bart Jaworski, a Vancouver-based analyst at Raymond James, said
yesterday in a note to clients.  Hathor climbed 9.4 percent to C$4.41 at the close yesterday
in Toronto, suggesting investors expect Cameco to increase its
bid for the exploration company or are betting on the likelihood
of another offer.  “People are speculating that Hathor will be in play for a
while,” Ben-Ari Elias, a New York-based analyst at Sterne Agee
& Leach Inc., said in a telephone interview yesterday. “You
might see Cameco come in with another bid and Rio would be
forced to counteract it.”  Hathor agreed to pay Rio a so-called breakup fee of C$20
million if Hathor accepts a superior offer from another company,
Rio said in the statement.  Cameco Bid  Cameco is reviewing the takeover announcement and intends
to update investors on its offer for Hathor, the company said
yesterday in a statement.  Gord Struthers, a Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based spokesman
for Cameco, declined in a telephone interview to comment on the
likelihood that the company would raise its offer.  “That’s one of the options we have to consider,” he said.  Cameco, the world’s largest uranium producer, announced its
cash bid on Aug. 26 after talks with Hathor’s board failed to
lead to an agreement. Cameco is also seeking control of
Roughrider, estimated to have at least 17.2 million pounds of
indicated uranium resources, it said in a statement. The company
wants to almost double its annual uranium output to 40 million
pounds by 2018, it said Oct. 6.  Regulatory Process  Under Canadian government policy, foreign companies can’t
own a controlling stake in Canadian uranium mines in commercial
production. The policy doesn’t apply to the proposed acquisition
by  Rio Tinto  because Hathor doesn’t have any mines in production,
Julie Di Mambro, press secretary to Natural Resources Minister
Joe Oliver, said in an e-mail.  “Should the company bring one of their respective mine
sites into production, at that time it would be reviewed,” Di
Mambro said.  The takeover will be reviewed under  Canada ’s foreign-
takeover legislation, known as the Investment Canada Act, she
said. The law requires that foreign acquisitions of companies
with assets worth more than C$312 million be reviewed to
determine whether the transaction is a “net benefit” to the
country.  Cameco declined 2.7 percent to C$20.52 at the close in
Toronto. The shares have fallen 49 percent this year.  Rio fell 0.7 percent to 3,138 pence in London trading.  Areva SA and KazAtomProm are the second- and third-largest
uranium producers, respectively, according to the  World Nuclear
Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  