-- 
TriplePoint Raises $1 Billion Fund to Increase Lending to Venture Capital

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-10-19T08:39:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/triplepoint-raises-1-billion-fund-to-increase-lending-to-venture-capital.html
TriplePoint Capital, the provider of
debt financing to venture-capital-backed companies,  said today 
it raised a $1 billion fund to expand its lending business even
as traditional venture funding hit an eight-year low.  The firm, which has provided growth capital to companies
including Facebook Inc.,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube and Gilt Groupe
Inc., will use the money to expand its business in the U.S. and
abroad, Chief Executive Officer Jim Labe said.  The new fund more than triples to $1.4 billion the total
amount TriplePoint has raised since it began in 2006, Labe said
in an interview.  “With venture funding at a low overall, that’s also an
opportunity for venture debt,” Labe said. “These venture-stage
companies want to make sure that the firm they’re transacting
the venture debt business with is going to perform, has the
resources, is going to be around, and is healthy.”  Before the closing of TriplePoint’s new fund, the firm had
raised $400 million that, along with leverage and lines of
credit, allowed it to provide companies with almost $2 billion
of financing, Labe said.  U.S.  venture capital  firms raised $1.72 billion in the
third quarter, the lowest amount since the July-September period
of 2003, according to the Arlington, Virginia-based  National
Venture Capital Association .  Fundraising Continues  Still, larger venture capital firms continue to raise new
funds, and TriplePoint plans to increase its lending business
alongside those firms’ investments, Labe said.  Accel Partners 
raised two funds totaling $1.35 billion during the second
quarter of this year, according to NVCA. In the first quarter,
Bessemer Venture Partners raised $1.6 billion and  Sequoia
Capital  raised $1.3 billion, NVCA said.  TriplePoint invests in  information technology , clean
technology and life-science companies and counts Bloom Energy
Corp., Etsy Inc. and Chegg Inc. among its customers, Labe said.
Early-stage companies often grant stock warrants to TriplePoint
in return for loans, he said.  While most of TriplePoint’s capital goes toward loans or
equipment leases for its customers, it uses about 10 percent of
its funds to buy equity stakes in companies during rounds of
traditional venture financing, Labe said.  Wafra Investment Advisory Group Inc., a financial asset
manager in the U.S. that’s controlled by Kuwait’s government,
invested in the recently closed fund, according to Labe. He
declined to say how much Wafra invested or to name other
investors because the information is private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  