-- 
Romney Faults Perry on Immigration as Republican Rift Widens

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-10-19T04:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/romney-faults-perry-in-dispute-over-immigration-as-republican-rift-widens.html
Mitt Romney  wants the U.S. to build
a fence to keep out illegal immigrants.  Herman Cain  suggested
constructing an electrified “Great Wall of  China ” along the
Mexican border. And  Rick Perry , who once called the fence idea
“idiocy,” is accusing Romney of employing illegal workers.  The issue of how to combat illegal immigration has emerged
as the clearest dividing line in a crowded Republican
presidential field, even as the weak economy dominates surveys
of voters’ concerns.  The fight became personal last night, when Perry accused
Romney, a former governor of  Massachusetts , of hiding the
presence of illegal immigrant workers on his property, during a
nationally televised CNN debate in  Las Vegas .  “The idea that you stand here before us and talk about
that you’re strong on immigration is, on its face, the height of
hypocrisy,” said Perry, the governor of  Texas . Romney fired
back, saying a law Perry signed offering in-state tuition
regardless of citizenship status has made the state a magnet for
illegal immigrants.  “If there’s someone who has a record as governor with
regards to illegal immigration that doesn’t stand up to muster
it’s you, not me,” Romney said, pointing to Perry’s opposition
to building a border fence.  As the campaign moves into the fall season, immigration has
become a test for Republican primary voters who see the
candidates’ stances on the issue as symbolic of their commitment
to fiscal and social values, said Greg Mueller, a Republican
consultant with ties to anti-tax Tea Party activists.  National Issue  “It’s a national security issue, it’s an economic and
cultural issue, and it’s a judicial rule-of-law issue for a
broad base of Republican primary voters,” said Mueller.  Since 2006, when President  George W. Bush  proposed
comprehensive immigration legislation, views within the party
have shifted toward talk of an impenetrable border fence and
away from Bush’s effort to combine a guest-worker program with a
path to citizenship for millions of undocumented immigrants.  At the same time, President  Barack Obama  calls immigration-
law overhaul a “moral imperative” as well as a way to improve
the economy and national security. Obama says the nation needs
to bring illegal immigrants out of an underground economy while
stepping up deportations of those who have committed crimes.  Yesterday, the administration reported that a record
396,906 illegal immigrants were removed in the last fiscal year.  Fence ‘Idiocy’  The immigration issue rose in prominence in the Republican
contest after Perry entered the race. As governor of a border
state, he called construction of a fence “idiocy” and signed a
law allowing Texas high school students lower, in-state tuition
rates at state colleges regardless of residency status.  Last night, Perry said he would crack down on illegal
immigration by building a fence in targeted areas, while
increasing the number of predator drones and “boots on the
ground” patrolling the border.  “Sure, you can build a fence, but it takes anywhere
between 10 and 15 years and $30 billion,” he said, during the
debate. “There’s a better way.”  Representative  Michele Bachmann  pounced on Perry’s
positions.  “Every person who comes into this country will have to
agree that they will not accept taxpayer-subsidized benefits,”
said Bachmann, a Minnesota congresswoman, taking a swipe at
Perry’s support of in-state tuition rates for undocumented
students.  Lawn Workers  Republican activists have also questioned Romney’s record
on the issue, pointing to 2006 and 2007 reports that he
repeatedly employed illegal immigrants to tend to his lawn.  Romney said that the workers were hired by an outside
landscaping company. As soon as he found out they were
undocumented, Romney said he demanded the workers be let go and
eventually fired the company.  “It is hard in this country, as an individual homeowner,
to know if people who are contractors working in your home, if
they’ve hired people that are illegal,” he said last night,
promising to put in place a system to conduct background checks.  As Perry and Romney defend their records, other candidates
have attempted to woo Republican voters by positioning
themselves as the toughest opponents of illegal immigration.  Former pizza company executive Cain proposed an
electrified, barbed wire-topped border fence to kill would-be
illegal immigrants.  ‘Great Wall’  “My fence might be part Great Wall and part electrical
technology,” he said, campaigning in  Iowa  on June 6. “It will
be a 20-foot wall, barbed wire, electrified on the top.”  When questioned on his comment on an Oct. 16 broadcast of
NBC’s “Meet the Press,” Cain dismissed it as a joke.  He reversed course during the debate, saying he wouldn’t
“apologize at all for wanting to protect the American
citizens.” Cain said he would secure the border with a
combination of a fence, technology and increasing the number of
armed guards.  Bachmann derided Cain’s comments at an Arizona campaign
event, saying a border fence was “no laughing matter.” Over
the weekend, she became the only presidential candidate to sign
a pledge supporting the construction of a fence across the
entire Mexican border.  “It’s OK to talk about this issue,” said Bachmann, who
signed the pledge in Perry, Iowa, a town where the meatpacking
industry has attracted a large number of Hispanic workers.
“Some say it’s not OK to talk about this subject because that
somehow means we are prejudiced or bigoted or biased against
Hispanics. That’s not what I hear from the people of Iowa. They
are tired of paying for other people.”  Backlash Warnings  Republican strategists and politicians say fiery rhetoric
may backfire in a general election where Hispanic voters are
likely to be a swing demographic.  Hispanics are one of the fastest-growing voting blocs in
the country. The National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials  projects  that the Hispanic vote will
increase 26 percent from 2008 with Hispanics accounting for at
least 8.7 percent of the country’s voters.  “It’s an emotional issue and the way we talk about it is
important,” said  Senator Lindsey Graham , a Republican from
 South Carolina  who spearheaded efforts last year to draft
bipartisan immigration legislation.  Latino Survey  A  survey  released Oct. 17 by polling firm Latino Decisions
found that none of the Republican presidential candidates have
attracted much attention from Hispanic voters. One in four
Hispanic voters have an unfavorable impression of Romney, while
46 percent have no opinion or have never heard of him.  Even fewer -- 22 percent -- approve of Perry and 40 percent
couldn’t identify him. Hispanics are far less familiar with the
rest of the field: 58 percent have no opinion of Bachmann, 59
percent of Texas Representative  Ron Paul , and 73 percent of
Cain.  While they won control of the  House of Representatives  and
narrowed their minority in the Senate in the 2010 elections,
Republicans lost the Hispanic vote by wide margins. Sixty
percent of Latino voters supported Democrats in House races,
while 38 percent voted for Republicans, according to exit
polling analyzed by the Pew Hispanic Center.  “We’ve lost ground with Hispanic voters,” said Graham.
“One of the reasons, I think, is some of the rhetoric around
immigration.”  Paul said some voters could view a fence as “symbolic” of
an anti-Hispanic sentiment within the party.  “I can understand why someone might look at that,” he
said last night. He added, “I don’t think the answer is a
fence.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in  Washington 
at   llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  