-- 
Trump’s Panama Hotel Builder Seeking to Restructure $220 Million of Bonds

-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 
2011-10-19T17:55:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/trump-panama-hotel-developer-seeks-restructuring-of-220-million-of-bonds.html
Newland International Properties
Corp. is seeking to restructure $220 million of bonds used to
finance construction of Panama’s Trump Ocean Club,  Donald Trump ’s first hotel and apartment complex to open outside the
U.S., the property’s chief financial officer said.  The company plans to present a proposal within two weeks
and hopes to have an agreement before a bond payment of $41.9
million comes due on Nov. 15, Trump Ocean Club CFO Catalina
Rodriguez said in a telephone interview from Bogota.  “We have clients who have requested mortgages, but the
banks in Panama are not disbursing the money fast enough,”
Rodriguez said. “Our plan is to go to bondholders to request
some special conditions or to see if they can work with us while
we get the money out of the banks.”  Single-room units at the Trump Ocean Club marketed for
$350,000 are now going for about $180,000, Kent Davis, a broker
with  Panama  Equity Real Estate, said in an interview. A glut of
high-end apartments caused building occupancy rates in Panama
City to drop to 50 percent in the last half of 2010, down from
69 percent over the previous six months, the real-estate broker
CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. said in July.  Gapstone Group LLC, a  New York  based financial firm, is
advising Newland and a restructuring is “very possible,”
Gapstone Managing Partner John McCormack said in a telephone
interview today.  Buyers Walk  The bonds, seven-year notes sold in 2007, traded at 74.55
cents on the dollar to yield 21.09 percent on Oct. 5, according
to the latest data from Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded the debt two steps on Sept. 21 to
CC, eight levels below investment grade, citing “continued
uncertainty over the willingness and ability” of buyers to take
possession of apartment units.  Twenty buyers have walked away from down payments this year
as the builder faced delays in finishing apartments, said
Cinthya Ortega, an analyst with Fitch in  Chicago .  “The biggest challenge right now is for them to make the
first bond payment,” Ortega said in a telephone interview. “If
they can collect on time, no problem, but the question is
whether they will get those funds before Nov. 15.”  Donald Trump, speaking at the property’s opening ceremony
on July 6, said he plans to build more hotels in the region.  “I see this as a great springboard to the rest of  Latin
America ,” Trump said in an interview. “There’s strong interest
in the Trump brand there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net 
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 