-- 
Trump Teams With Avenue’s Lasry in Online Gaming Venture

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-10-19T19:49:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/trump-teams-with-avenue-s-lasry-to-pursue-online-gaming-venture.html
Donald Trump  and New York hedge-fund
manager Marc Lasry want a seat at the virtual poker table if
online gambling is legalized in the U.S.  The real estate financier, Lasry’s  Avenue Capital  Group and
casino operator Trump Entertainment Resorts Inc. will form an
Internet gaming joint venture should U.S. regulators permit such
businesses to operate, according to an Oct. 14 regulatory
filing. Trump Entertainment, which Avenue Capital took control
of last year, would own 10 percent of the venture, the company
said in its filing. It didn’t disclose the stakes to be held by
Trump or Lasry’s $12 billion hedge fund.  The agreement coincides with a push to legalize online
gambling by states including  Iowa  and  New Jersey , where Trump
Entertainment is based and holds casino licenses. The $6 billion
that Americans wager each year through offshore sites is
tempting state authorities who face budget deficits, as well as
casino companies looking for new sources of growth.  “It’s just a matter of time,” Ivanka Trump, Donald’s
daughter, said in a telephone interview. “It would be a
tremendous source of taxable revenue for states or the federal
government and an enormous generator of jobs,” said Ivanka,
executive vice president of development and acquisitions for the
Trump Organization, the New York-based parent company of
Donald’s real estate operations.  2010 Bankruptcy  Todd Fogarty, a spokesman for Avenue Capital, declined to
comment, as did Brian Cahill, a representative for Trump
Entertainment. Lasry, 52, is chairman of the company, which
operates the Trump Taj Mahal Resort and the Trump Plaza Hotel &
Casino in its hometown of  Atlantic City , New Jersey. It sold
Trump Marina Hotel Casino earlier this year.  The agreement by Trump Entertainment, Donald Trump and
Avenue Capital restricts all three parties from going after
competing proposals through May, according to the filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Trump Entertainment, which emerged from bankruptcy in July
2010, said in the filing that the joint venture represented
“the most advantageous way” to pursue online gaming “at
minimal cost” to the company. “One or more other qualified
parties” may also participate in the venture, according to the
filing.  Ivanka Trump, 29, said that the joint venture is
“positioning itself” to be the largest online gaming company
if the industry is legalized in the U.S. She added that Trump
Entertainment had the necessary licenses, while Lasry’s firm
would provide the capital and her father would contribute his
name to the venture.  Expensive Proposition  “In terms of the Internet, brand is essential toward
attracting players,” Ivanka said. “The Trump brand would be
the most powerful one in this space.”  Setting up an Internet gaming site can be capital
intensive, according to Richard “Skip” Bronson, chairman of
U.S. Digital Gaming Inc., a Beverly Hills, California, company
that has created a technology platform for Internet wagering.
While the cost of creating a site is relatively low, online
gaming companies must spend heavily to make themselves known and
bring in bettors.  “The question is how will you get people to come to the
site,” Bronson said in a telephone interview. “It takes unique
promotions and significant marketing spend.”  Trump Entertainment Reorganization  The online gaming industry received a jolt in April, when
the U.S. Justice Department indicted the founders of three
Internet poker companies, alleging that they circumvented a 2006
federal law barring banks from processing payments to offshore
gambling websites. The companies -- PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker,
and  Absolute Poker  -- ranked as the leading online poker sites
doing business with U.S. customers, even though they were all
based outside the country.  Following the indictments, Caesars Entertainment Corp. and
MGM Resorts International, a pair of Las Vegas-based casino
companies, funded an advocacy group called FairPlay USA. The
group is pushing for the legalization of online poker and
revisions to the 2006 law, known as the Unlawful Internet
Gambling Enforcement Act.  At least a half dozen states have bills pending tied to the
legalization of online gaming, Bronson said, and another six to
10 are studying the issue. He predicts that online gaming will
follow the same pattern as state lotteries, which were first
adopted in 1964 by  New Hampshire  and are now offered in 43
states.  ‘Domino Effect’  “There will be a domino effect, the same way lotteries
started in the 1960s,” Bronson said. Under the 2006 federal
law, Internet poker sites established in states that legalize
online wagering could only accept bets placed within those
states, Bronson added.  Lasry, a billionaire investor who specializes in distressed
debt, was part of a bondholder group that won control of Trump
Entertainment last year when a bankruptcy judge ruled that their
bid for the casino company was better than a competing offer
from  Carl Icahn . The bondholders offered to reduce the company’s
debt by $1.4 billion and invest another $225 million, while
Icahn sought to convert some $480 million of bank debt into
equity, leaving nothing for Lasry’s group.  Under the winning plan, Avenue Capital acquired about a 22
percent stake in Trump Entertainment by swapping the casino
company’s beaten-down bonds for stock and purchasing additional
shares through a rights offering. Trump, who joined Lasry and
the other bondholders after originally submitting a competing
proposal with billionaire Andy Beal, received a 10 percent stake
in the company for the right to use his name.  Three’s A Charm  Trump, 65, entered the casino business in 1984 with the
Trump Plaza, and in 1990 defaulted on $675 million in  junk bonds 
from his Taj Mahal casino and declared bankruptcy. Following the
bankruptcy reorganization, he took the company public in 1995 as
Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts Inc.  Trump Hotels & Casino filed for  bankruptcy protection  in
November 2004. When the second bankruptcy proceeding was
completed the following year, Trump stepped down as chief
executive officer while retaining his role as chairman, and the
company was renamed Trump Entertainment Resorts.  Just before the casino company made its third bankruptcy
filing, in February 2009, Trump stepped down as chairman and
Ivanka also left the board. At the time, he held a 24 percent
stake in Trump Entertainment.  Lasry has hosted high-stakes poker games in which the take
can be as high as $20,000, according to “Hedge Hunters,” a
2007 book by Bloomberg News reporter Katherine Burton. He is one
of several hedge-fund managers who are also poker buffs,
including  David Einhorn , head of Greenlight Capital Inc., Cliff Asness, chief of AQR Capital Management LLC and  Kenneth Griffin ,
founder of Citadel LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  