-- 
Russian September Retail Sales Surge Most in Three Years, Beating Forecast

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   A l e n a   C h e c h e l
-- 
2011-10-19T14:25:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/russian-retail-sales-surge-most-in-3-years.html
Russian retail sales jumped the most
since October 2008 last month as unemployment fell to a more
than three-year low, showing consumer demand may help revive the
stalling economy.  Sales rose 9.2 percent from a year earlier after a 7.8
percent gain in August, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow
said today in a statement. Real wages advanced 6.2 percent, the
fastest this year. Economists forecast an 8.5 percent increase
in retail sales and a 4.7 percent gain in wages, according to
the median estimates of two Bloomberg surveys.  Inflation eased last month and won’t exceed 7 percent this
year, the lowest rate since 1991, according to the central bank.
That’s bolstering consumers even as exports suffer amid a weaker
global economy and the euro region’s debt crisis. Spending was
aided by further growth in bank lending and a stronger jobs
market, according to Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for  Russia 
and  Kazakhstan  at ING Groep NV in Moscow.  “Domestic demand performance has been not only resilient
but even improving in September,” Polevoy said in an e-mailed
research note. “Continued credit expansion on both retail and
corporate sides strongly contributed to decent non-food sales
and investment figures.”  Stocks, Ruble  The ruble-denominated Micex Index of 30 stocks fell after
the release and was 1.5 percent down at 1,403.96 at 5:56 p.m. in
Moscow. The ruble advanced 0.5 percent to 31.0781 per dollar.  Third-quarter  consumer confidence  reached its highest level
since April-June 2010, the statistics service said Oct. 7.
Economic growth, which slowed to 3.4 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter from 4.1 percent in the first, may
accelerate through the end of 2011, the government said last
month in a revised forecast.  Loans to households grew 3.6 percent in September from a
month earlier, almost matching July’s 3.7 percent, the fastest
rate since at least 2009, central bank department head Mikhail Sukhov said Oct. 11. Retail loans rose 19.6 percent in the year
through August, according to  central bank  data.  M.Video, which sells televisions and computers, said
yesterday that revenue rose 24 percent from a year earlier in
the three months ending September. “We’re seeing that our
consumers’ confidence remains,” Chief Executive Officer
Alexander Tynkovan said in an e-mailed statement. “We look
forward toward our high season in December with optimism.”  Currency Volatility  In addition to borrowing more, consumers are also tapping
savings because of ruble volatility, Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief
economist at Moscow-based Otkritie Capital, said today before
the release.  “Demand is being supported by lending growth and as
households reduce savings,” Tikhomirov said. “That’s happening
because of the unstable ruble rate. Currency volatility make
people more inclined to spend than save because it’s unclear
which currency is better for keeping savings.”  Options were pricing in ruble fluctuations of as much as
19.08 percent against the dollar over the next three months on
Sept. 26, the highest since March 2009 and up from 9.7 percent
on Aug. 1, implied volatility data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Global Turmoil  Still, manufacturing stalled in the third quarter on
dwindling export orders and Russians’ spending may dip as the
effects of the global financial turmoil filter through the
economy.  “According to previous crises/slowdowns, investment reacts
to adverse external developments with a one-quarter lag, while
consumption takes at least three quarters before moderating,”
Renaissance Capital analyst  Ivan Tchakarov  wrote in an e-mailed
note Oct. 14.  Demand for consumer loans has grown less than expected so
far in October, the Kommersant newspaper reported today, citing
a survey of the country’s 30 biggest retail banks.  Sales growth at food retailers slowed in the third quarter
and chains provided contrasting evaluations of the outlook. X5
Retail Group, Russia’s largest grocer by revenue, said Oct. 10
that it experienced a “cutback in spending amid unstable
economic conditions in Russia and worldwide.” OAO Magnit, the
biggest by market capitalization, said the following day that it
didn’t see “any noticeable decline in consumer activity.”  Any concern among food retailers is “clearly premature,”
as  government spending  before presidential elections next March
will buoy consumers,  Julia Tsepliaeva , chief economist at BNP
Paribas in Moscow said Oct. 17 by phone. “Rising incomes, which
have boosted retail-trade growth, are unlikely to match double-
digit figures seen before the crisis, but higher pensions and
salaries for state workers are more than capable of maintaining
the current demand.”  Disposable incomes advanced 3.2 percent in September, above
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 2.3 percent growth.
Investment spending was 8.5 percent, the highest level this year
and more than analyst forecasts of a 6.9 percent advance,
another survey showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Alena Chechel in Moscow at 
 achechel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  