-- 
South African Treasury Backs Carbon Tax to Cut Emissions

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-10-19T12:53:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/s-african-treasury-says-carbon-tax-appropriate-to-cut-emissions.html
South Africa ’s National Treasury
said its proposed carbon taxes are an appropriate tool to cut
emissions, rejecting opposition to the levy from steelmaker
ArcelorMittal South  Africa  Ltd. and other companies.  “Carbon taxes afford firms the flexibility to undertake
emissions reductions according to their specific processes and
provide the long-term price certainty which is essential for
investment decisions,” said Cecil Morden, chief director of  tax
policy  at the Treasury. “A carbon tax at an appropriate level,
and phased in over a specific time period,” will help alter
consumer and producer behavior, he said.  The government yesterday published its new climate policy,
which envisions a “range of economic instruments” being employed
to support the emission-reduction goals, including the possible
use of offsets and emissions-trading mechanisms.  A discussion document released last December by the
Treasury proposed three alternate ways of taxing emissions: a
direct tax on  greenhouse gases  emitted from industrial sources;
a tax based on the carbon content of fuels; and a tax applied to
emitters where fuel is burned. Revised proposals are due to be
published next month.  Emissions Trading Not Viable  The Treasury’s initial preference is for an input tax,
based on the carbon content of fuel, which would be easiest to
measure and collect, Morden said in a presentation to lawmakers
in Cape Town today. An emission-trading system wasn’t considered
a viable medium-term alternative to a carbon tax, he said.  South Africa is weighing a charge of 75 rand to 200 rand
($9 to $25) per metric ton of carbon emitted, the Treasury said
in May 2010.  Those numbers were “indicative” and it was too early to
speculate what the final charge would be, or when it would be
phased in, Ismail Momoniat, head of financial sector policy in
the Treasury, said in an interview in  Cape Town .  Australia , the developed world’s biggest per-capita
polluter, plans to make about 500 companies pay A$23 ($22.74) a
ton for their carbon emissions starting in July 2012, before
switching to a cap-and-trade system three years later.  ArcelorMittal, Africa’s largest steel-maker, said in a July
27 regulatory filing that South Africa’s proposed carbon taxes
were “a concern as they will have a severe impact on cost of
steel produced.”  Sasol Ltd., the largest producer of motor fuel from coal,
said in a June 14 regulatory filing that “South Africa must
make the transition to a lower-carbon economy while remaining
sensitive to the urgent developmental needs of the country.”  South Africa’s government agreed in 2009 to reduce its
emissions by 34 percent compared with “business as usual
levels” by 2020, and by 42 percent by 2025, on the condition
that developed countries provide assistance in the form of money
and technical expertise. Total  carbon emissions  in the country
are seen peaking at 614 million metric tons by 2025 and falling
to a maximum 428 million tons by 2050.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  