-- 
S&P 500 May Retreat for Two Weeks, UBS Says: Technical Analysis

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-10-19T11:59:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/s-p-500-may-retreat-for-two-weeks-ubs-says-technical-analysis.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will
probably decline over the next two weeks because the gauge’s 14
percent rally from an intraday low on Oct. 4 was too steep,
according to UBS AG technical analysts.  “The recent rally was too steep to be sustainable, which
from a momentum basis alone suggests a near-term breather before
seeing more strength deeper into the fourth quarter,” Michael Riesner and Marc Muller wrote in a note dated Oct. 18. “Given
the fact that the first rally leg was stronger than expected, it
is likely we will also see a positive surprise into later
November.”  The  S&P 500  reached an intraday high of 1,233.1 yesterday,
surpassing a level that UBS predicted the index wouldn’t reach
until late next month. Stocks gained on optimism that European
leaders will agree on how to solve the region’s debt crisis.  The analysts forecast the U.S. gauge will lose as much as
6.2 percent to 1,150 in late October or the first week of
November from yesterday’s close, before rallying to 1,270 to
1,280 in late November.  The low reached earlier this month forms the basis for a
“corrective A-B-C counter trend rally,” where a gauge climbs,
drops and then rallies for a second time, according to the
analysts.  As the S&P 500 rebounded more strongly than UBS had
estimated, “we have a first tiny piece of evidence that the
whole rebound pattern could finally take a different shape than
that of a classic A-B-C, where wave C takes out the high of wave
A,” Riesner wrote. “Either the whole pattern will turn into
just a volatile sideways trading range, where wave B would be a
strong setback, or the whole rebound pattern will be
significantly shorter than expected, which means the late
November top could be more important than we think.”  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 