-- 
SABMiller to Gain Holding in Anadolu Efes After $1.9 Billion Russian Swap

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-10-19T16:48:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/sabmiller-to-take-stake-in-turkey-s-anadolu-after-russian-asset-transfer.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB)  will transfer eastern
European beer businesses valued at $1.9 billion to Anadolu Efes
Biracilik & Malt Sanayii AS and take a stake in an enlarged
company that will be Russia’s second-biggest beermaker.  SABMiller will exchange its Russian and Ukrainian units for
a 24 percent holding in Istanbul-based Anadolu Efes, the
companies said today. Anadolu Group will maintain control of the
Turkish brewer with a reduced stake of 42.8 percent.  SABMiller, which last month agreed to buy Foster’s Group
Ltd. for about A$9.9 billion ($10.2 billion), is among consumer-
goods companies looking to emerging markets including Asia and
 Africa  to drive sales growth as economic stagnation stunts
growth in the U.S. and Europe. Anadolu Efes is the Middle East’s
largest brewer, getting 31 percent of sales from  Turkey , and
also has operations in Russia,  Kazakhstan , Moldova and  Georgia .  “This is positive” for SABMiller, said  Trevor Stirling ,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  London . “It increases
relative exposure in emerging markets and addresses some of the
concerns about dilution from the Foster’s deal.”  Buying Foster’s will reduce the percentage of earnings from
markets outside the U.S. and western Europe to about 70 percent
from more than 80 percent, Deutsche Bank AG has estimated.  SABMiller, the world’s second-largest brewer by volume,
rose 1 percent to 2,283 pence at the close in London trading.
Shares of Anadolu Efes gained 6.8 percent to 22 Turkish liras
($11.80) in Istanbul.  First-Half Sales  Also today, SABMiller reported first-half sales that missed
analysts’ estimates, saying “some particularly poor weather”
in  Europe  and  China  held back growth. So-called organic volume
rose 3 percent, the London-based company said, below the 3.8
percent median estimate of 11 analysts. Organic volume excludes
the effect of acquisitions and disposals.  The maker of Grolsch and Peroni, which said that financial
performance for the half year was in line with its estimates,
brought forward the sales announcement, which was due tomorrow.  The enlarged Anadolu Efes will rank behind Carlsberg A/S’s
Baltika in the Russian beer market. Anadolu Efes will have a
market share of 17.9 percent, compared with 38.4 percent for
Carlsberg, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts.  SABMiller’s Russian and Ukrainian units produce local
brands including Zolotaya Bochka, Tri Bogatyrya and Moya Kaluga,
alongside international beers such as Miller Genuine Draft.  Russian Growth  The Russian beer market, the world’s third-largest by
volume after China and the U.S., may decline at a “low single-
digit” rate this year before resuming growth of 3 percent to 5
percent after 2013, Carlsberg said in August.  Russia ’s
government raised taxes on the drink by 200 percent at the start
of 2010, which is still affecting consumers, Carlsberg CEO
Joergen Buhl Rasmussen said at the time. The Russian economy is
expected to grow at a rate 4.5 percent this year and next, more
than double the pace of the U.S., according to Bloomberg data.  Unilever, the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods
company, agreed to buy Russian skincare maker OAO Concern Kalina
last week in a deal valuing the company at about $694 million.  Anadolu Efes already controls 89 percent of Turkey’s beer
market and 69 percent of the country’s carbonated soft drinks
market. SABMiller and Anadolu Efes will also be able to
distribute each others’ brands in other areas.  Deal Multiple  The agreement implies an exit multiple of about 12.7 times
estimated earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, according to Dirk Van Vlaanderen, an analyst at
Jefferies in London, who described it as a “fair” price. The
median multiple paid in the brewing industry in the past 10
years is 9.4 times Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  The transaction will lead to cost benefits of at least $120
million a year and add to both brewers’ earnings per share in
the first full year following completion, the companies said.  “Anadolu Efes’s leading position in beer and soft drinks
in the Turkish market and an alliance for further growth and
acquisitions in the CIS and  Middle East  are highly attractive,”
SABMiller Chief Executive Officer Graham Mackay said in the
statement. “The prospects for these markets are excellent.”  Turkish beer consumption is set to increase to 11.9 liters
a person next year from an estimated 11.7 liters this year,
according to Mintel International. That’s lower than the U.S.
and U.K., where drinkers will drink between 73 and 74 liters on
average this year. The world’s highest per-capita beer
consumption is 152.5 liters in the  Czech Republic , Mintel said.  Mey Icki  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest distiller, agreed to buy
Turkey’s Mey Alkollu Ickiler Sanayi & Ticaret AS in February,
adding spirits including Yeni Raki. The maker of Johnnie Walker
whisky will start to sell its Guinness stout beer in Turkey via
Turk Tuborg Malt Sanayi AS, Turk Tuborg said Sept. 7.  Earlier this month, SABMiller’s shares advanced the most in
almost three years after Brazilian news website IG reported that
the beermaker was in talks to be bought by larger competitor
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV. (ABI)  Today’s deal “probably makes a bid by
AB InBev less likely,” Bernstein’s Stirling said.  SABMiller retained Nomura Holdings Inc. as sole financial
adviser, Hogan Lovells International LLP and Herguner, Bilgen,
Ozeke as legal advisers, and JPMorgan Cazenove and Morgan
Stanley as joint brokers. Rothschild is acting as financial
adviser for Anadolu Efes, with DLA Piper UK LLP and
YukselKarkinKucuk Attorney Partnership as legal advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 