-- 
France Split With Germany on Crisis Emerges as EU Summit Pressure Mounts

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-10-20T10:45:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/sarkozy-to-see-trichet-merkel-draghi-lagarde-tonight.html
France and  Germany  wrangled over how
to tackle Europe’s debt crisis a day before a finance ministers’
meeting in Brussels intended to set a common strategy on dealing
with the turmoil.  With a summit of European leaders scheduled for two days
later, a disagreement over the European Central Bank’s role in
the rescue plan threatens to stymie progress on the banking and
economic questions needed to deliver the comprehensive strategy
demanded by global policy makers. Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs the group of euro-area finance
ministers, indicated an impromptu meeting of European leaders in
Frankfurt last night failed to resolve differences. “We are
still meeting,” he said as he departed.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , whose wife was reportedly
giving birth to his first daughter, jetted into Frankfurt to
meet with officials as they attended an event to honor outgoing
ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet . Sarkozy, German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  left the event at the Frankfurt Opera House
without commenting.  “Even with the current problems in the negotiations, we
expect that there will be at the end a compromise,” economists
including Juergen Michels at Citigroup Inc. in  London  said in an
e-mailed note. “However, with the participants having still
very divergent views, the outcome probably will not be a
credible, comprehensive package.”  Euro Weakens  Stocks fell and Spanish and French bond yields rose on the
split over  Europe ’s rescue strategy. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
fell 0.6 percent as of 12:14 p.m. in Paris, while the CAC 40
dropped 1 percent. The Spanish two-year note yield jumped six
basis points, while the extra yield investors demand to hold
French 10-year bonds instead of benchmark German bunds rose to a
euro-era record.  French Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  stepped up calls for
the 440 billion-euro ($608 billion) European Financial Stability
Facility to be turned into a bank and given leverage by the ECB
which, along with Germany, has rejected using its balance sheet
to bolster the fund. Germany has endorsed enabling the EFSF to
insure a portion of cash-strapped nations’ bond sales.  The EFSF “needs to be massive,” Fillon said in
Paris.“The 440 billion euros need to be used with a leverage
effect, a bit like a bank.”  French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  also said the EFSF
should be turned into a bank, though he noted the “reticence”
of the ECB and the “German position.”  “For us it is and will remain the most effective position.
The Americans do it, the British do it,” he said.  Primary-Market Purchases  Trichet has been a key part of Europe’s crisis-fighting
effort, reluctantly pushing the ECB to buy bonds in the
secondary market, a role it may be forced to keep under a
revamped strategy.  Primary-market purchases by the enhanced EFSF generally
should be limited to no more than 50 percent of the final issued
amount, according to draft guidelines for the backstop from the
European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and senior
officials from the 17 euro-region nations, obtained by Bloomberg
News. The EFSF should participate at the weighted average price
of the auction, it said.  “That means that EFSF’s share is no larger than the share
bought by the market,” the draft says. “It gives an incentive
to the issuer to accept market bids, because for each million of
accepted market bids the member state will receive an additional
million from EFSF.”  ‘Disconcerting’ Pace  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said that European
leaders’ slow pace toward a solution is “disconcerting,” while
adding they have the “sense of urgency required.” The rescue
fund isn’t sufficient to deal with the crisis and will need to
be leveraged, he told reporters in Ottawa yesterday.  The disagreements among policy makers came as banks lobbied
against forced recapitalization and deeper writedowns on Greek
debt.  While Merkel this week sought to lower expectations that
the crisis-fighting effort would climax at the Sunday summit in
Brussels, Group of 20 finance chiefs last week set the meeting
as a deadline. Failure risks a global economic slump, they said.  “Many expect to be underwhelmed at the weekend,” David Mackie, chief European economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said
in an interview. “If they haven’t settled the leverage issue,
then the sense of being underwhelmed will be overwhelming.”  Protests  Policy makers are struggling to end a crisis that began in
 Greece  two years ago this week. In Athens yesterday, protesters
clashed with police outside Parliament before Prime Minister
George Papandreou won a preliminary vote on a new austerity
package. The final vote is scheduled for today.  The issues frustrating European authorities include how to
write down of as much as 50 percent on Greek bonds, setting up a
backstop for banks and finding a continued central bank role.  The world economy is facing the “threat of profound and
traumatic disruption,”  Norman Chan , chief executive of the Hong
Kong Monetary Authority, said in a speech published on the de
facto central bank’s website.  Also attending the event in  Frankfurt  last night were Mario Draghi, who replaces the retiring Trichet on Nov. 1, European
Union President Herman  van Rompuy  and European Commission
President  Jose Barroso . Baroin and German finance minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  were there as well. No statement was issued.  Van Rompuy praised Trichet for taking “unconventional”
steps and not being beholden to dogma, while Barroso told
reporters in Brussels that he was optimistic that an accord will
be reached.  “Independence doesn’t mean detachment from political
decision-making,” Van Rompuy said at the Trichet farewell
ceremony. “Monetary policy cannot be conducted in a social and
political void. The central bank’s independence is a right, but
also entails duties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  