-- 
HSBC Said to Join Suitors for Dexia’s Denizbank in Turkey

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-10-19T16:49:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/hsbc-is-said-to-join-qnb-as-suitor-for-dexia-s-turkish-denizbank-division.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest
bank, is interested in buying Turkey’s Denizbank from  Dexia SA (DEXB) ,
the first lender to founder with the European debt crisis, two
people with knowledge of the process said.  The global lender is vying with OAO Sberbank and  Qatar
National Bank SAQ (QNBK) , the Persian Gulf country’s biggest bank by
assets, which said yesterday that it was negotiating to buy a
controlling stake in Denizbank. QNB has retained Citigroup Inc.
to advise on the purchase, two people familiar with the plan
said, declining to be identified as the talks were private.  For London-based HSBC, the acquisition would expand its
business in Europe’s fastest-growing economy, which the lender
entered more than 20 years ago and where it operates more than
300 branches. Denizbank had 39 billion Turkish lira ($21
billion) in assets and 540 branches in the country as of June,
according to its  website .  Denizbank shares rose 6.3 percent to 16.05 lira at the
close in Istanbul, giving it a market value of more than $6
billion. Brussels-based Dexia owns more than 99.8 percent of
Denizbank, with the rest traded on the exchange, a small enough
free float that Denizbank’s market capitalization may not
reflect its actual value, one of the people said.  Spokesmen for HSBC, Dexia and Citigroup declined to
comment.  Denizbank’s Value  With a book value of $2.5 billion, Denizbank has a price-
to-book ratio of about 2.8, twice as much as the 16-member the
Istanbul Stock Exchange National-Banks Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The KBW Bank Index, representing 24 U.S.
banks, has a price-to-book ratio of 0.71. Dexia agreed to pay
about $2.4 billion for a 75 percent stake in the Turkish lender
in May 2006.  Dexia, which is being rescued by  Belgium  and  France , is
putting its troubled assets into a bad bank and selling
profitable units, like Denizbank, sparking interest from rivals
seeking to expand in Turkey. The sale by Dexia, Belgium’s
biggest lender, may herald a wave of divestments by European
banks trying to shore up balance sheets to cope with the
sovereign debt crisis.  The governments of Belgium, France and Luxembourg provided
a 90 billion euro ($124 billion), 10-year guarantee to cover
Dexia’s funding needs on Oct. 9. Dexia will sell assets,
including its Luxembourg unit and its French municipal-lending
arm, to give the bad bank capital to absorb future losses. The
bank, which has said further asset sales are likely, hired Bank
of America Corp. and White & Case LLP to assess options for its
stake the Istanbul-based unit.  Rival Bidders  OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s largest bank, is also studying the
possibility of acquiring Denizbank, Sberbank Chief Executive
Officer German Gref said in Moscow on Oct. 11.  The talks between Dexia and Qatar National Bank are still
in “early stages” and hinge on agreeing on a price that
“fairly reflects” its value, the Qatari lender said yesterday.  Founded in 1964, the Qatari bank has operations throughout
the  Middle East , and offices in Europe,  Africa  and  Singapore .  HSBC opened its first office in Turkey in 1990, according
to the bank’s  website , and acquired Demirbank TAS, then Turkey’s
fifth-largest lender, in late 2001.  The Turkish state founded Denizbank, which means “Sea
Bank,” in 1938 to finance the country’s maritime development,
and privatized it in 1997 with a sale to Zorlu Holding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at  
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  