-- 
Schaeuble Said to See June Deadline for Bank Capital

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-10-19T17:18:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/schaeuble-said-to-see-june-deadline-for-banks-to-boost-capital.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told a closed parliamentary committee that he expects
a deadline of June 30, 2012, for European banks to meet
increased capital levels, said two lawmakers who attended the
meeting.  The lenders will need to hold minimum core tier 1 capital,
a measure of financial strength, of 9 percent by that deadline,
the lawmakers said, speaking on condition of anonymity because
it was a non-public session in Berlin today.  Boosting banks’ resilience would be part of a wider plan
scheduled to be announced on Oct. 23 to stamp out the sovereign
debt crisis, which has driven Greece toward default, roiled
global markets and dented confidence in the survival of the 17-
nation currency.  A mid-2012 deadline would give banks more time to boost
their capital. A European Union official, who spoke on condition
of anonymity, said on Oct. 13 that a possible timetable for any
recapitalization is three months to six months.  Still, a six to nine month timeframe for banks to raise
capital and reduce risk-weighted assets is “unrealistic,”
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analysts led by  Kian Abouhossein  wrote in a
note to clients today. European banks may need a total of 230
billion euros to recapitalize in 2012, they said.  Immediate Injections  “Bank equity investors need immediate capital injections
through mandatory convertibles by governments -- not a six to
nine month time vacuum,” the JPMorgan analyst wrote. Such a
move “automatically improves capital ratios of the banks, hence
it should have a positive impact on  market sentiment  by reducing
uncertainty related to the stability of the banking sector.”  This would also give banks the opportunity to wait to sell
new shares once the environment improves, reducing the dilution
of existing shareholders that would happen when selling shares
at the current low valuations, JPMorgan said.  A core tier 1 capital level of 9 percent would lead to a 220
billion-euro ($304 billion) capital shortfall at 66 of  Europe ’s
largest banks, with the biggest gaps at Edinburgh-based  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Paris-based  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA, according to a note published by Credit Suisse Group
AG analysts on Oct. 13.  The European Banking Authority is assessing whether banks
could withstand sovereign debt writedowns, a person familiar
with the talks said on Oct. 12.  “A number of scenarios and formula are currently discussed
and considered by European regulators, with new targets to be
met by June 2012,” Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said
Oct. 17. “I expect French banks to be able to fully cover any
additional capital needs by their own means,” Noyer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  