-- 
Shaq’s Rack, $75 Tequila Flows at Pelaccio’s Fatty ’Cue Party

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-10-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/shaq-s-rack-75-tequila-flows-at-pelaccio-s-fatty-cue-party.html
The space is dark. The waiters wear
no discernable uniforms. The restaurant smells like fish sauce.
And diners eat hackleback caviar with six-packs of Tecate beer.  Is this what happens when a Brooklyn restaurant comes to
the  West Village ?  Welcome to Fatty ‘Cue, where half bottles of Tito’s
Handmade Vodka go for $65 -- not a bad deal. Chef-owner Zak
Pelaccio deserves credit for ignoring the standard rules of
revelry.  Typically, restaurants might pair your food with reasonably
priced wine or cocktails, while nightclubs fill your empty
stomachs with $30 bottles of  Grey Goose  marked up to $400.  The new ‘Cue splits the difference with affordable, Thai-
style bottle service.  Our 375 ml of  Cabo Wabo Blanco  tequila (about 12 shots) was
$75. The waiter brings empty glasses, strawberry Indonesian
peppercorn soda and a bucket of ice. You do the rest.  The vegetal overtones of the Cabo match the bitterness of a
kale salad ($12). The smooth booze gives you the liquid courage
to order a garlicky, fermented pork sausage, with a poached egg
to stare back at you ($13).  Manhattan ’s ‘Cue is tastier, tamer and marginally more
mature than the Brooklyn first-born, which was plagued by
blubbery meats upon opening last year.  Pork Ribs  None of that infects Carmine Street. Fatty brisket falls
apart, accordion style, when picked up -- the sign of proper
rendering. Heritage pork ribs, the size of Shaquille O’Neal’s
forearms, boast pink smoke rings and a salty, crusty exterior.  A bowl of clams ($23) sports a sublime level of balance, a
tightrope walk of sour yuzu, fragrant curry, spicy chilis and
fatty bacon.  That’s your signature Pelaccio dish here, the work of an
Original Gangster who takes America’s low, slow, oak smoke
cookery and mixes it all up with the prickly, puckery, fermented
flavors of  Southeast Asia .  Order blood pudding. Fatty ‘Cue takes the name literally,
turning the standard sausage into a carnivorous jar of meat
custard, the iron tang softened by pillowy farro. Compliment the
creamy treat with a Chupacabra ($12): tequila cut with
watermelon, lime and chilis.  Pelaccio relegates all the wines to the back of the menu.
Cocktails are the right call.  Perfect Oysters  Smart diners begin their meals with Naked Cowboy oysters.
They’re perfect -- no sand, no bits of shell, no popped bellies.
A bottle of fishy sangrita subs for Tabasco.  Culinary historians will recall that Fatty ‘Cue isn’t
Pelaccio’s first attempt to strike gold at 50 Carmine. He used
to call this place Cabrito, Spanish for young goat. The bearded
chef does well with the ornery animal (the world’s most consumed
meat); buttermilk pappardelle with smoked kid ragu ($24)
wouldn’t be out of place at one of the city’s better Italian
restaurants.  Lamb shoulder ($23), deeply perfumed by the animal’s
natural musk, gets its counterpoint by a tangy goat milk yogurt.  Watch out for smoke in the wrong places. Oak gives tomato
curry a slight chemical tang (order the dish anyway for the
great tripe). Stay away from the pricey rabbit; the bony, tough
creature suffers from a severe lack of seasoning.  If you ran over a nice seabass with a Wile E. Coyote Acme
steamroller, it would look like a turbot. It’s an ugly fish.
That’s why chefs don’t often serve them whole.  Pelaccio is the outlier, bringing the hideously delicious
creature to your table in all its moist, bony glory ($39). Dip
it in the salsa verde, a tart condiment that’s served with a
half-pound of deep fried bacon ($19). (We assume that if you’re
dining at Fatty ‘Cue, you’re ordering the bacon.)  End with gooey pandan cake with kaffir milk jam, an odd
dish with some very familiar flavors: It tastes like a bowl of
chewy  Froot Loops  -- a New York original indeed. So finish your
tequila and have another round.  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Shared plates from $10-$40.  Sound Level: Can get loud, around 80 decibels.  Date Place: If your date can drink like a rock star.  Inside Tip: Booze bottle service is the right call.  Special feature: Duck laab salad ($24) isn’t nearly as  spicy as the painfully hot version at Kin Shop.  Will I be back? Yes.  Fatty ‘Cue is at 50 Carmine St., near Bedford. Information:
+1-212-929-5050 or  http://www.fattycue.com/ .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak
up, please. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your date. 66
to 70: You’re reading one in if you want to hear your date. 66
to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn
because you’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din. 76 to 85:
Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 