-- 
Shire Tests Spinal Pump in ‘Next Frontier’ for Rare Disease Drug

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-10-19T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/shire-tests-spinal-pump-in-next-frontier-for-rare-disease-drug.html
Shire Plc (SHP) , a maker of medicines for
rare genetic diseases, said it expects results next year from an
early-stage trial that involves implanting a pump in patients’
spines to deliver drugs to their brains.  About 15 patients are participating in the trial of a
version of Shire’s Elaprase in people with Hunter syndrome that
has spread to their brain, Chief Executive Officer Angus Russell
said in an interview in London yesterday. Almost two years after
the study started, no serious side effects have been reported,
Russell said.  The study is the first to deploy the technology to carry
treatment to the brain, and involves implanting a pump at the
base of the spine that the patient can then use to release drugs
into the central nervous system. It’s part of Dublin-based
Shire’s plan to expand the use of approved treatments such as
Elaprase for people who have few treatment options when their
disease causes complications in the brain, an advancement that
can be fatal.  “What we’re looking for is to push the boundaries really
of the next frontier of treating rare genetic diseases,”
Russell said.  While larger drugmakers such as Pfizer Inc. and
GlaxoSmithKline Plc are facing price cuts and the loss of patent
protection on some of their biggest-selling drugs, analysts are
expecting Shire to book full-year sales growth of 21 percent on
expanding demand for its treatments, many of which are the only
available for patients with rare diseases.  Sanfilippo A  Shire is also testing the pump technology in patients with
 Sanfilippo A  syndrome, a rare and severe metabolism disorder,
Russell said. That trial is using a drug known as HGT 1410.  “It sounds very exciting, like they’re really being smart
about life cycle management of their existing franchises,”
Navid Malik, an analyst at Merchant Securities Ltd. in  London ,
said in a telephone interview today. “If they can do the same
with other rare disease areas that are affecting the brain, they
could have a nice platform technology here.”  The stock has almost doubled in the past two years, giving
the company a market value of 11.3 billion pounds ($17.9
billion) and making it the best performer in that period on the
Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index of the region’s 17 biggest
drugmakers.  Shire gained Elaprase with its $1.6 billion purchase of
Transkaryotic Therapies Inc. in 2005. It now has four approved
products from that deal, representing almost a third of revenue.  ‘Much Bigger Piece’  If the pump technology works, “in a decade’s time, armed
with that capability, then this could be a much bigger piece of
our business,” Russell said.  Shire is interested in further acquisitions in the area of
regenerative medicine, Russell said, following the company’s
$750 million purchase of Advanced BioHealing Inc. in May.
Advanced BioHealing’s lead product is Dermagraft, a skin
substitute used to treat foot ulcers.  “We see that as a very new, fast-growing area,” he said.
“We’re certainly looking for other assets that we could bring
in to put in on top of the Advanced BioHealing acquisition. And
then generally we’re always looking for other assets that would
be associated with areas of business we’re already in,” such as
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, digestive tract
illnesses and rare diseases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  