-- 
Silver Bear Market Seen Ending on Europe Crisis: Commodities

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-10-20T16:17:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/silver-bear-market-seen-ending-on-europe-crisis-commodities.html
Silver, the best-performing and
most-volatile precious metal of the past year, may rebound from
a  bear market  as investors bet on growth in developing nations
and an extended European debt crisis.  The metal may average $38 an ounce this quarter and rise to
a record $42 by the final three months of 2012, compared with
$30.155 at 5:10 p.m. in London today, according to the median
in a Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts. The gains will mean record
profit for producers  Pan American Silver Corp. (PAA)  and  Fresnillo
Plc (FRES) , analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  China , the biggest emerging-market user, is expanding at
more than five times the speed of the U.S., driving consumption
of the precious metal most used in industry. Demand is also
coming from investors looking for an alternative to cash and
gold, which costs about 50 times more than silver. The 30-week
correlation coefficient between the two metals is now at 0.82,
from as low as 0.47 in 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg show,
with a figure of 1 meaning the two move in lockstep.  “Prices now look relatively cheap to where they have been
recently,” said  David Wilson , an analyst at Societe Generale SA
in London and the most accurate silver forecaster tracked by
Bloomberg in the two years through June. “The backdrop is still
very supportive for gold and we think that silver will leverage
off the back of that. Emerging markets are going to be important
for demand for sure.”  Solar Panels  Silver slumped as much as 48 percent after reaching a 31-
year high of $49.845 in April. Used in everything from jewelry
and coins to solar panels and film, the commodity returned more
than any other major precious metal over the past year with a
gain of 30 percent. Gold rallied 22 percent as the MSCI All-
Country World Index of stocks fell 7.3 percent. Treasuries
returned 4.8 percent, Bank of America Corp. indexes show.  While silver has swung from losses of 3.2 percent to gains
of 103 percent over the past 12 months, exceeding moves in gold,
platinum and palladium, it is still on track for its highest-
ever annual average.  The metal tumbled 28 percent last month, the biggest drop
since 1980, as equities and commodities slumped on signs growth
was slowing. Spain, Italy and  Greece  are among euro-region
nations which had their credit ratings cut this year. About $5
trillion was wiped off the value of global stocks and the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities retreated 12
percent, the largest decline in almost three years.  Monetary Fund  Economists tracked by Bloomberg are more bullish. The
global economy will expand 2.86 percent next year, accelerating
from 2.77 percent in 2011, according to a composite of regional
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. The  International Monetary Fund 
is forecasting world growth of 4 percent next year, driven by a
6.1 percent gain in developing economies.  Industrial and numismatic demand for silver fell almost 11
percent in 2009, Morgan Stanley estimates, during the worst
global recession since World War II. Prices still rose 49
percent because consumption was underpinned by investment, with
holdings in exchange-traded products backed by the metal jumping
48 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Combined assets in
ETPs rose 4.8 percent to 17,515 metric tons since mid-July,
equal to almost nine months of mine production, the data show.  That may not be enough to erode a glut. Global supply of
silver has exceeded non-investment demand since 2008 and this
so-called fundamental surplus will persist until at least 2016,
Morgan Stanley predicts. Output from mines will rise 1.4 percent
this year, accelerating to 4.5 percent in 2012, says the bank.  ‘Very Weak’  “The fundamentals still look very weak,” said  Suki Cooper , a commodities analyst at  Barclays Capital  in New York
who expects silver to average $27 in the fourth quarter of next
year. “The downside still looks much more vulnerable, given
that we’re not seeing the same strength in industrial demand
that we have seen previously, and given that mine supply still
looks very healthy.”  Silver may also fail to protect investors’ assets should
economies tip back into recession. It slumped 24 percent in
2008, the most in almost a quarter century, as gold rose 5.5
percent.  Investors for now are getting more bullish. As well as
adding to ETP holdings, they are also buying bullion coins, with
the  U.S. Mint  selling 4.46 million ounces of American Eagles in
September, the most since January. Record low  interest rates  in
the U.S. should make holding bullion, which generally earns
investors returns only through price gains, more attractive. The
U.S. Federal Reserve pledged in August to keep interest rates at
a historic low until at least mid-2013 to shore up the recovery.  Futures Trading  The most widely held option on futures gives the owner the
right to buy silver at $50 by November, according to data from
the Comex exchange in  New York . Money managers raised bets on
higher prices for the first time in more than a month in the
week ended Oct. 11, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
show. The net-long position gained 1.3 percent to 11,573 futures
and options contracts.  Pan American Silver, the fourth-largest producer, will
report profit of $347.8 million this year, compared with $112.6
million in 2010, according to the mean of four analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of the Vancouver-based
company slumped 33 percent since the start of January.  Fresnillo, the second-largest producer, will make $911.8
million in 2011, compared with $665.1 million in 2010, the mean
of six estimates shows. Shares of the Mexico City-based company
dropped 9 percent in  London  this year.  “I don’t see any sustainable solution for the debt crisis,
so investor interest will stay,” said Thorsten Proettel, an
analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart,  Germany 
and the fourth-best precious-metals forecaster tracked by
Bloomberg over the past two years. “Silver should get support
from economic growth in the newly industrialized countries.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  