-- 
SKF Sees Lower Demand as Markets for Cars, Railways Decline

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-19T11:39:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/skf-predicts-lower-demand-as-markets-for-cars-railways-contract.html
SKF AB (SKFB) , the world’s largest maker of
ball bearings, predicted demand will decline in the fourth
quarter, bringing to a halt a phase of expansion as customers in
the transport and energy industries curtail investments.  Demand for SKF’s products and services in the last three
months of the year will likely be “slightly lower” than in the
third quarter, the Gothenburg, Sweden-based company said in a
statement today. The stock fell as much as 3.3 percent in
 Stockholm , the most in more than two weeks.  “There is uncertainty in the demand outlook,” Chief
Executive Officer Tom Johnstone said in the statement, citing
the car, truck, railway and wind energy markets. The company
began reducing output at the end of the third quarter and will
cut it further in the fourth quarter, it said today.  SKF is considered an industry bellwether because its
bearings are used in products such as construction cranes and
cars. The company is the first major Nordic manufacturer, a peer
group which also includes  Atlas Copco AB (ATCOA)  and  Sandvik AB (SAND) , to
report earnings this quarter.  “The shares are down because of the lower demand,” said
Michael Hagmann, an analyst at Nomura International Plc in
 London  with a “neutral” rating on SKF. “That a company that’s
so close to the pulse of the economy is only expecting a
moderate decline in demand should come as a relief,” he added.  The shares fell as much as 4.6 kronor to 137 kronor and
traded at 139.60 kronor at 1:56 p.m. The stock has lost 27
percent of its value this year. Atlas Copco, the biggest maker
of compressors, has lost 19 percent in 2011.  Third Quarter  SKF’s third-quarter net income rose to 1.6 billion kronor
($240 million), or 3.52 kronor per share, from 1.39 billion
kronor, or 3.05 kronor, a year earlier.  Profit beat the 1.57
billion-krona average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 14
analysts. Sales rose 7 percent to 16.5 billion kronor.  Scania AB (SCVB) , the Swedish truckmaker controlled by  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) , plans to lower production at European factories by as much
as 15 percent beginning in November as demand for commercial
vehicles drops, that company said last week.  Atlas Copco is scheduled to report earnings on Oct. 21,
while Sandvik AB, the world’s biggest manufacturer of metal-
cutting tools, reports on Oct. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  