-- 
Slovenia Gets 4 Bids for Mercator as Industry Consolidates

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-10-19T18:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/slovenia-gets-4-bids-for-mercator-as-industry-consolidates-1-.html
Slovenia received four non-binding
bids for the majority stake in  Mercator Poslovni Sistem (MELR)  d.d.,
the largest supermarket chain in the Balkans, as the industry
consolidates.  Three offers for the 52 percent holding in the Slovenian
company that is being sold by banks in Slovenia and other
shareholders came from financial investors, while the fourth was
from a “strategic investor,” ING Bank NV in  London  said,
according to an e-mailed statement today from Nova Ljubljanska
Banka d.d. in Slovenia.  Agrokor d.d.,  Croatia ’s largest private company, made a
non-binding offer for Mercator that values the Slovenian
retailer at 832 million euros ($1.15 billion), according to two
people familiar with the matter. Agrokor offered 221 euros per
share for half of the Ljubljana-based company. If chosen and
after clearing the regulatory hurdles, Agrokor would have to
extend its offer for the rest of the shares under Slovenian law.  Agrokor is trying to widen its reach in other former
Yugoslav republics as competition increases. Brussels-based
Delhaize Group SA, the owner of Food Lion supermarkets in the
U.S., bought  Serbia ’s Delta Maxi Group, the biggest chain in
that country.  The Croatian company, which expects revenue to expand 8
percent this year amid rising meat sales and a good performance
from its Serbia unit, attempted to purchase its Balkan rival
before. The last attempt to acquire a 23 percent stake was in
April when private equity groups Mid Europa Partners Ltd. and
Warburg Pincus LLC also made an offer to  Pivovarna Lasko (PILR)  Group
d.d. That transaction was blocked by the Slovenian regulator in
a matter not related to Agrokor’s bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jmes Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  