-- 
SNB May Move Franc Ceiling as Currency Weakens, FXPro Says

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-10-19T11:48:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/snb-may-increase-franc-ceiling-as-currency-weakens-fxpro-says.html
The  Swiss National Bank  may change
its franc ceiling from 1.20 versus the euro as the currency
weakens, foreign-exchange broker FXPro Group Ltd. said.  “The closer we get to 1.25 on the euro-franc, the more
realistic it is that the SNB will choose to move the
goalposts,”  Simon Smith , chief economist at FXPro in  London ,
said in an e-mailed note today. “Just how much the SNB has been
involved in the recent weakening is difficult to know, but a
combination of fear and position adjustment could well do the
SNB’s job for it and so we shouldn’t be that surprised to see
the cap shifted on a move above 1.25.”  The Swiss central bank, led by Philipp Hildebrand, imposed
a cap on the franc on Sept. 6 to protect the recovery and stop
investors from piling into the currency. With the economy
showing increasing signs of slowdown and companies struggling to
maintain sales growth, some labor unions have called on policy
makers to change the ceiling to 1.40 per euro.  The Swiss currency, which is traditionally perceived as a
haven in times of global turmoil, traded at 1.2432 versus the
euro at 1:11 p.m. in Zurich, down 0.6 percent on the day. It
reached a record 1.0075 on Aug. 9.  Still, Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency analyst at
Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva, said he doesn’t expect the SNB to
raise its ceiling anytime soon, citing the risk that renewed
turmoil in markets could push investors back to the Swiss
currency. European leaders will hold a summit on Oct. 23 in
Brussels to discuss ways to tackle the region’s debt crisis.  “The primary reason is that protecting a higher floor in
euro-franc could become increasingly difficult and there are
still significant risk events which could generate a rush into
the franc,” Rosenstreich wrote in a note today. “With its
balance sheet slowly getting larger and dark clouds lingering
over  Europe , we don’t expect the SNB to risk its credibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  