-- 
Social Security Beneficiaries Get 3.6% Increase

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-10-19T19:19:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/social-security-beneficiaries-to-receive-3-6-increase-in-2012.html
Fifty-five million Social Security
beneficiaries will receive a 3.6 percent cost-of-living
adjustment next year, the U.S. government  said  today.  The COLA increase, the first since 2009, takes effect in
January. Eight million Americans participating in the
Supplemental Security Income program, which provides cash
assistance to the blind and disabled poor, will receive the same
3.6 percent boost.  Benefits in both programs are automatically adjusted for
inflation so that recipients don’t fall behind as prices rise.
For the last two years, inflation has been too low to trigger an
increase.  “Today’s announcement is welcome news for millions of
Americans who rely on Social Security to pay their bills,” said
 Nancy LeaMond , executive vice president of  AARP , a Washington-
based advocacy group for older Americans. “This COLA will help
to ease the financial hardship many older Americans face
today.”  The increase will mean $43 more each month for the typical
retired worker,  according  to the  Social Security Administration ,
bringing average monthly benefits to $1,229. The maximum federal
payment available to Supplemental Security Income recipients
will increase to $698 per month, from $674.  The adjustments will cost the government $28 billion next
year.  About 10 million Americans will pay more into Social
Security next year, the agency also said, because the cap on the
amount of income subject to the program’s payroll tax will
increase to $110,100 from the current $106,800.  Payroll Tax Rate  Nariman Behravesh , chief economist at the forecasting firm
 IHS Inc. (IHS) , said the cost-of-living boost will have a modest
impact on the economy.  “It’s small potatoes,” he said. “We’ll take it -- don’t
get me wrong -- but it’s not going to do big and bold and great
things for the economy. It’s better than doing nothing.”  Lawmakers are debating whether to cut the payroll  tax rate 
as well as the COLAs for Social Security recipients, veterans
and federal retirees.  President  Barack Obama  has called for extending and
expanding a payroll tax break that is scheduled to expire at the
end of this year. The tax was temporarily reduced this year in a
bid to jog  consumer spending . If Congress doesn’t act, the rate
paid by workers next year will return to the usual 6.2 percent
from the current 4.2 percent.  Obama wants to reduce that further to 3.1 percent while
also halving the 6.2 percent paid by employers on the first $5
million of payroll. The proposal has run into skepticism from
lawmakers from both parties who question its effectiveness as
well as its impact on Social Security’s finances.  Inflation Measure  At the same time, some lawmakers are calling for changing
the way the government measures inflation. They say the current
formula exaggerates the rate at which prices rise, which means
that the government pays too much in cost-of-living adjustments.  Advocates for the elderly reject that idea, saying the
government’s inflation gauge actually understates the price
increases older Americans face because they spend a larger-than-
average share of their budgets on medical care.  “With the decline in housing values, deep losses in
retirement and savings accounts and skyrocketing health and
prescription drug costs, millions of older Americans continue to
struggle to make ends meet,” LeaMond said. “AARP will continue
to fight with the strength of our millions of members to protect
Social Security against benefit cuts.”  Social Security recipients received a larger-than-usual 5.8
percent cost-of-living increase in 2009 that was triggered in
part by a jump in energy prices. Since then, beneficiaries have
gone without additional increases for the only the first and
second times since automated COLAs began being provided in 1975.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  