-- 
U.S. Solar Companies Seek Tax on Chinese Imports Claiming Unfair State Aid

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-20T11:07:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/solarworld-says-it-will-file-trade-action-with-u-s-today.html
U.S. solar-equipment makers asked
the government to slap duties on more than $1 billion of Chinese
imports, joining the wind-power industry in seeking compensation
for alleged unfair state aid undercutting American competitors.  China  uses cash grants, preferential loans, discounts on
raw materials, tax incentives and currency manipulation among
tactics to boost exports of solar cells, the main device used in
solar panels, the U.S. unit of Bonn-based  SolarWorld AG (SWV)  said
yesterday in the complaint supported by six other U.S. solar
companies. Suntech Power Holdings Co., LDK Solar Co. and  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the three-biggest China-based makers of crystalline
silicon panels, sell in the U.S., according to Bloomberg data.  “The illegal subsidies that China has put into the solar
industry are no different than giving an athlete a bucket full
of steroids,” Gordon Brinser, president of SolarWorld
Industries America Inc. told a Washington news conference. China
“is illegally seizing control of the U.S. solar market,
manufacturing and our jobs.”  The allegations compound those by the U.S. wind-energy
industry that China forces manufacturers to make products in the
Asian country. Those charges prompted the U.S. to file a case
with the  World Trade Organization  in December. The solar
complaint may contribute to escalating trade tensions after the
U.S. Senate last week passed a bill aimed at opening the way to
impose duties to punish China for not revaluing its currency.  SolarWorld is probing whether to start a similar move in
 Europe , a company spokesman said. “We’re checking all options
for similar proceedings in Europe,” spokesman Milan Nitzschke
said today by telephone, declining to elaborate.  China Targeted  The case follows a plunge in prices for solar cells and
panels and is one of the largest targeting China, with political
implications as both nations race to develop clean-energy
technologies.  The companies requested an  antidumping investigation  by
U.S. authorities and that duties be imposed on imports to
neutralize some of the Chinese advantage, according to a
statement by Wiley Rein LLP, a  law firm  that filed the petition
on behalf of the U.S. companies.  Three major U.S. solar companies have failed since August,
including Solyndra LLC, which received a $535 million U.S. loan
guarantee, unable to stay afloat as prices plunged amid
competition.  The collapse of Fremont, California-based Solyndra renewed
demands from U.S. lawmakers and union leaders that the Obama
administration pursue unfair-trade complaints against China for
subsidies to its renewable-energy companies.  The U.S. is stepping up efforts to make China comply with
World Trade Organization rules. U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said on Oct. 6 his office sent the WTO a list of almost 200
subsidy programs that China failed to disclose as required by
the organization’s rules.  The  U.S. Senate  on Oct. 11 passed a bill aimed at punishing
China for keeping its currency undervalued, a measure that
Chinese officials said risks damaging trade relations and
undermining the global recovery.  Suntech’s View  China’s Suntech, of Jiangsu, China, the world’s largest
maker of solar panels, said trade complaints may hinder efforts
by producers to challenge traditional forms of electricity
generation.  “Protectionism would not only put thousands of jobs at
risk, but it would inhibit solar technology’s ability to compete
against traditional forms of electricity generation,” Suntech
said yesterday in a statement. “A solar trade war would deal a
major blow to the global economy and to our common goal of
achieving a clean energy future.”  Prices Falling  The spot price of solar panels has fallen about 40 percent
this year as manufacturers particularly in China ramped up their
production capacity, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
The 10 largest silicon panel manufacturers have doubled their
manufacturing capacity last year, the data show.  Many solar-equipment companies are losing money as the
average operating margin fell to negative 5.9 percent in the
second quarter compared with a positive 12 percent a year
earlier, Bloomberg data show.  In the first seven months of this year, China shipped $1.4
billion of solar panels to the U.S., exceeding the $1.2 billion
for all of 2010, according to U.S. International Trade
Commission data.  Imports from  South Korea , the  Philippines  and  India  also
jumped. Solyndra’s statement said imports of Chinese crystalline
solar cells and panels rose more than 300 percent from 2008 to
2010.  Complaint Details  SolarWorld’s complaint targets production of crystalline
solar-cell and panel imports and excludes thin-film products
such as those made by Solyndra, said Tim Brightbill, a lawyer at
Wiley Rein LLP who is representing SolarWorld. He declined to
name the six other U.S. companies backing SolarWorld’s petition
to the Commerce Department and the trade commission.  The Obama administration in December filed a case at the
WTO in Geneva over China’s support for wind-energy
manufacturers, the first by the U.S. regarding green technology,
after a complaint from the United Steelworkers union.  China provided $30 billion in credit to its biggest solar
manufacturers last year, about 20 times the U.S. effort,
Jonathan Silver, former executive director of the Energy
Department’s loan program, told a congressional panel Sept. 14.
Silver’s resignation was announced on Oct. 6.  “The environment-friendly green-technology policies
introduced by the Chinese government are for the purpose of
energy protection and ensuring sustainable development, which
are in conformity with WTO rules,”  Wang Baodong , the spokesman
for the Chinese Embassy in  Washington , said a year ago. Wang
said on Sept. 22 that the debate over subsidies “is not a new
issue.”  Solar Jobs  SolarWorld Industries America, based in Hillsboro,  Oregon ,
has been lobbying lawmakers such as Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon
Democrat, to help protect its jobs at a factory in the state.
The company, which has 1,100 U.S. employees, said Sept. 2 that
it was closing its factory in Camarillo,  California .  Representative Sander Levin of  Michigan , top Democrat on
the House Ways and Means Committee that deals with trade, said
in a statement that he supports the U.S. companies’ actions.  “I am encouraged to hear that the U.S. solar industry is
defending itself against China’s massive subsidies and other
unfair trade practices,” he said.  Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, yesterday sought
to add $5 million to a spending bill for the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office to investigate and combat China’s
violations of international trade law.  “China’s gains in the solar market are coming at the
expense of Ohio producers,” Brown said in a statement. “Ohio
manufacturers can compete with anyone on a level playing field,
but by subsidizing its solar industry and hoarding rare earths,
China isn’t competing-it’s cheating.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Martin  in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 