-- 
Solyndra Pushes Back Sale of Solar-Panel Business Until November

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-10-19T20:10:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/solyndra-pushes-back-sale-of-solar-panel-business-until-november.html
Solyndra LLC, the bankrupt solar-
panel maker under an investigation related to a $535 million
loan guarantee from the U.S. government, delayed an auction for
virtually all its assets until Nov. 18.  The company decided to put off its Oct. 27 auction to sell
the core business in a so-called turnkey sale, according to a
court filing in  U.S. bankruptcy court  in Wilmington,  Delaware . 
Potential buyers will now have until Nov. 16 to submit an offer. 
The company will seek court approval of the sale at a hearing 
scheduled for Nov. 22.  Solyndra persuaded a judge not to appoint a trustee to oust
management and take over its bankruptcy case at an Oct. 17
hearing. The U.S. trustee, an arm of the U.S. Justice Department
that monitors corporate bankruptcies, argued the company wasn’t
properly disclosing information it needed about contracts.  The solar-panel maker filed for Chapter 11 reorganization
on Sept. 6 and was raided two days later by the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation . Solyndra, based in Fremont,  California , said
it had assets of $859 million and debt of $749 million as of
Jan. 1. When the petition was filed, the company said its
secured debt was $783.8 million.  Solyndra may have as many as 25 potential bidders, its
financial adviser Eric Carlson of Imperial Capital LLC said at a
meeting with bankruptcy monitors yesterday, according to the
Wall Street Journal. Included are about 14 strategic buyers,
companies operating within the same industry looking to gain
market share or cost savings, while the rest are financial
buyers, looking to buy cheap or undervalued assets, the 
newspaper reported. Carlson didn't immediately return a call
seeking comment.  Solyndra’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
U.S. President  Barack Obama , who praised the company during a 
May 2010 tour of its facilities.  Solyndra faces probes by the FBI and Republicans in
Congress over the federal loan guarantee it used to build a $733
million factory.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 