-- 
Solyndra’s $25 Million California Tax Break Defended by Lockyer

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-10-20T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/solyndra-s-25-million-california-tax-break-defended-by-lockyer.html
A California program that set up
more than $100 million in tax breaks for companies including
now-bankrupt Solyndra LLC will continue with “very minor”
changes at most, the program’s sponsor said yesterday.  “To the extent that people are looking at Solyndra and
saying that’s why we should end this program, it’s absolutely
unjustified,” Senator Alex Padilla, the Pacoima Democrat who
sponsored the bill that created the tax breaks, said in an
interview. “If there were to be any changes, they would be very
minor.”  At a hearing yesterday in  Sacramento , state senators and
Treasurer Bill Lockyer defended the tax exemptions for advanced-
transportation and alternative-energy projects as vital to
keeping manufacturing jobs in the state.  Lockyer proposed two changes to the incentives: a
“clawback” provision that would let California recoup money if
the company leaves the state, and stronger requirements for
recipients to report changes to their business plans after they
apply for a tax break.  The treasurer spoke against the idea of a “financial
viability” test for applicants. The state is ill-equipped to
scrutinize the business plans of private companies, he said.  $104 Million  Lockyer is chairman of the state’s Alternative Energy and
Advanced Transportation Financing Authority, which has granted
sales-tax exemptions valued at  $104 million  to 33 companies,
public agencies and research institutions. Recipients have used
about $31.6 million of the breaks so far, with Solyndra
accounting for almost 80 percent, state figures show.  The Fremont, California-based maker of solar-power
collectors filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6 after
receiving $535 million in U.S. loan guarantees from the Energy
Department. Congressional committees in  Washington  are
investigating the commitments, and the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  is probing the company.  State senators are  weighing  Lockyer’s proposed changes to
the 2010 law that set up the tax incentives as well as a cap on
a company’s exemptions.  Lockyer, a 70-year-old Democrat, said the incentives have
worked well, contrasting them with $43 billion in other tax
relief he said  California  grants businesses for various reasons.  No Questions  “That’s $43 billion that no one asks these kinds of
questions about,” Lockyer said. “This is the only one that I’m
aware of where someone tries to assess whether the benefits to
California outweigh the cost of the tax exemption being
provided.”  The authority that grants the tax breaks said it may put
new awards on hold while reviewing the Solyndra affair.  None of the nine senators at the hearing proposed repealing
the tax breaks yesterday.  Senator Bob Huff, a Diamond Bar Republican, said the
state’s tax breaks shouldn’t be compared to the federal program
that awarded Solyndra the loan guarantee.  “This program is totally different than giving them grants
or loan guarantees,” Huff said during the hearing. “There’s
not a whole lot of risk. If they don’t invest, they’re not
paying anything anyway.”  Executives from two companies that received state
incentives -- San Jose-based Stion Corp. and Fremont-based
Solaria Corp. -- spoke in favor of the program. Both closely
held companies manufacture solar cells.  Melissa Zucker, vice president of human relations for
Solaria, said the incentives helped the company rebuff an offer
from  Oregon  to locate its manufacturing facilities there. Oregon
offered $20 million in low-interest loans and a $10 million tax
credit, she said. California offered a tax credit valued at
$709,800, according to documents from Lockyer’s office.  “California is absolutely where we want to be from an
innovation standpoint,” Zucker told state senators. “It is a
difficult state, economically, in which to manufacture, as all
of you are aware.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 