-- 
Solyndra Investor’s U.S. Tax Status Faulted by Senate Republican Grassley

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-10-19T04:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/solyndra-investor-s-u-s-tax-status-faulted-by-senate-s-grassley.html
A Senate Republican is questioning
the tax status of a charitable foundation that became the
biggest private backer of Solyndra LLC, the solar-panel maker
that failed after getting a U.S. loan guarantee.  Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa  said the George Kaiser
Family Foundation may not qualify for the favorable tax
treatment it has claimed as a public charity.  Grassley questioned the role of the foundation started by
Kaiser, an oil billionaire and a fundraiser for President Barack Obama’s 2008 campaign, in backing Solyndra. The solar-panel
maker filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 6, two years after receiving
the $535 million loan guarantee.  “The government didn’t just lose out on its investment
through the $535 million loan guarantee,” Grassley said
yesterday at a Senate Finance Committee hearing. “It also lost
out on the tremendous subsidy it provided the George Kaiser
Family Foundation through the charitable contribution
deduction.”  Donors of cash and publicly traded securities to public
charities can deduct as much as 50 percent of adjusted gross
income, according to Grassley. The percentage drops to 30
percent if the donations are made to a private foundation,
according to Grassley, who said the organization doesn’t spend
enough money on charitable endeavors.  The Tulsa, Oklahoma-based foundation that Kaiser started
owns about 36 percent of Solyndra, mostly through its Argonaut
Ventures I investment fund. The foundation has said George
Kaiser wasn’t an investor in Solyndra and didn’t lobby the
administration for the loan guarantee the company received.  FBI, Congress Inquire  The Fremont,  California , maker of solar panels is now the
subject of inquiries by congressional committees and the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation .  “We are taking on some of the most difficult and expensive
problems in American society,” Ken Levit, executive director of
the foundation, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
“Government, at all levels, is pulling back from its
responsibilities in these areas and leaving a greater role for
the private sector.”  Levit said the foundation has started three major civic
projects with “several hundred million dollars of further
obligation” and is studying what works.  “With all of these future commitments, we feel we are
prudently preserving resource capacity,” Levit said.  The George Kaiser Family Foundation used its role backing
the Tulsa Community Foundation to convert from a private charity
to a public “supporting organization” 10 years ago, according
to Grassley.  ‘Low Level’ Support  The foundation’s “low level of support” for the Tulsa
foundation “raises serious questions” about whether it
qualifies for its favored status, Grassley said in a letter Oct.
17 to Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and Douglas Shulman,
commissioner of the  Internal Revenue Service .  “If it had remained a private foundation, it likely would
not have been able to invest as much as it did in Solyndra or
the other private equity or hedge funds it invested in,”
Grassley said at the hearing.  The foundation claims assets of $4 billion and has given
out less than 2 percent of its total assets in grants over three
years, or about $215.4 million, according to Grassley’s letter.
Of that, about $10.5 million went to the Tulsa group.  Grassley urged the administration to tighten loopholes that
let charities avoid payout requirements. Grassley, who first
questioned the George Kaiser Family Foundation’s status in 2005,
said he had his staff take a fresh look into its finances after
Solyndra’s failure.  Had the foundation remained private it would have needed to
release at least an additional $230 million to charities over
the three years and to pay excise taxes on its investment
income, according to Grassley’s letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  