-- 
Sonova Shares Rise Most in Month on Hearing-Aid Sales Growth

-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 
2011-10-19T16:11:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/sonova-shares-rise-as-much-as-6-6-on-hearing-aid-sales-growth.html
Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  rose the most in a
month in Zurich trading after reporting that sales of hearing
aids increased 7 percent in the first half excluding
acquisitions.  Sonova rose 13 percent to 86.75 Swiss francs, the stock’s
biggest advance since Sept. 14.  The results indicate that Sonova is bouncing back after
recalling the HiRes 90K cochlear implants last year because of a
malfunction, said Ingeborg Oie, an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd. in  London . Sales of the Phonak Ambra hearing
aid, which Sonova began selling last year, also are going well,
she said in a report to clients today.  The hearing-aid sales growth “should put to rest some of
the concerns over the success of the Ambra product,” Oie wrote.
“The strong ramp-up in cochlear implant sales following the
return of the product to market stands out most.”  Revenue in the six months ended Sept. 30 sank 8.2 percent
to 763 million Swiss francs ($851.3 million) because of the
Swiss franc’s strength and the recall, the company said in a
statement today announcing preliminary results. Analysts
predicted 783.7 million francs, the average of three estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Strong Franc  The franc’s strength against the euro and the dollar cut
sales by 17 percent, the company said. Sales of hearing
instruments increased 11 percent in local currency terms,
boosted by Phonak Spice and Unitron ERA products, Sonova said.  Sonova recalled the implant, made by its Advanced Bionics
unit, in November because of a malfunction that led to “severe
pain, overly loud sounds and/or shocking sensations.” The
company received approval in September from U.S. regulators to
resume sales. Sonova said it began selling the product again
outside the U.S. in mid-April.  Cochlear Ltd. (COH) , the Australian company that makes the
world’s best-selling ear implant, said last month it was
recalling its Nucleus CI500 range because of an increase in
failures. Sonova aims to take market share from Cochlear as a
result, Sonova Chief Executive Officer Alexander Zschokke said
on a conference call today. Sonova’s own recall hasn’t hurt its
reputation, he said.  First-half earnings will be  announced  Nov. 15. Sonova
briefed investors and analysts at a hearing-aid conference today
in  Germany .  Sonova has fallen 28 percent this year, giving the company
a market value of 5.77 billion francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 