-- 
Sony Bulls Highest Since 2008 With Stock at 24-Year Low: Options

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-10-20T20:24:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/sony-bulls-highest-since-2008-with-stock-at-24-year-low-options.html
Sony Corp. (SNE)  options traders are
placing more bullish bets than any time in three years,
speculating  Japan ’s largest electronics exporter will rebound
after $8 billion was erased from the stock since July.  Calls to buy Sony outnumber puts to sell by 2.1-to-1 on
U.S. exchanges, the most since October 2008, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The ratio has surged in the past two months from
0.97-to-1. Sony has lost 26 percent in American trading since
July 7 on concern the rising yen will hurt overseas sales. The
shares fell 1.6 percent in  Tokyo  today.  The retreat was larger than all but one of the 26 Japanese
American depositary receipts valued above $20 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Only Canon Inc. has a higher
call-to-put ratio among that group, and it has 99 percent fewer
contracts in existence than Sony, which sank to the lowest level
since 1987 in Japanese trading this month. Sony has introduced a
tablet computer to compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and is
forecast to double earnings this year.  “After such poor performance for so long, maybe they’re
due,” Carlo Panaccione, co-founder of Navigation Group Inc.,
which oversees $350 million in Redwood Shores,  California , said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “Tablets in general are
obviously a growing area and that could be prompting some of
this action.”  Sony has slumped after the yen strengthened almost 6
percent against the U.S. dollar since July 7. The company
introduced a tablet computer on Sept. 1 and will report 117
percent growth in earnings excluding some items in fiscal 2012,
according to the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Music, Video  Tablets from Sony, which has posted three straight annual
net losses, run on Google Inc.’s Android system and integrate
the company’s music, video, gaming and digital book offerings.
Worldwide sales of tablets are set to triple to $30.6 billion
this year, according to Strategy Analytics estimates. Apple will
probably capture 73 percent of the market, compared with 88
percent in 2010.  Global equities entered their first  bear market  since 2009
at the end of September after concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is
intensifying drove investors out of stocks. Japan’s Nikkei 225
Stock Average slumped 14 percent in 2011 through yesterday
following the nation’s record earthquake and resulting tsunami.
Shares have rebounded in October, driving the MSCI All-Country
World Index up the most over eight days since May 2009, amid
optimism European leaders will contain credit losses.  “Sony’s gotten beat up on that slowing developed market
growth dynamic, and now you’ve got some people coming into the
market to do some bottom-feeding via the calls,” Max Breier, a
senior equity derivatives trader at BMO Capital Markets Corp. in
New York, said in a telephone interview on Oct. 18. “People are
looking toward a recovery from the Japan earthquake and a
rebound in GDP growth in Europe and  North America .”  Overseeing a Slump  Sandy Genelius, Sony’s spokeswoman in New York, declined to
comment on the options trading in the company’s stock.  Howard Stringer  has overseen a 59 percent decline in Sony’s
stock price since becoming its first non-Japanese chief
executive officer in 2005. Apple surged more than 950 percent
during the same period as  Steve Jobs  transformed the Cupertino,
California-based company into the world’s largest technology
company by market value.  Stringer may cost shareholders a gain of about 70 percent
by clinging to its television business, according to a Bloomberg
analysis in August. Sony said in July that its TV division will
lose money for an eighth straight year.  “The stock is cheap, but management has a history of
disappointing the market,” Chad Deakins, an Atlanta-based
manager of an international equity fund for RidgeWorth Capital
Management, said in an e-mail yesterday. His firm, which owns
Sony shares, oversees $45 billion. “The TV business is
currently a crowded and difficult space,” he said.  Nikkei Volatility  The Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index, a gauge of
options prices for  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  stocks, lost 5.5 percent to 27.57
yesterday, bringing its decline since Oct. 3 to 30 percent. It
jumped 6.1 percent to 29.24 today. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index or VIX, a measure of options prices on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, rose 1 percent to 34.78 today.  Sony’s Japanese shares lost 46 percent this year through
yesterday for the ninth-worst performance in the Nikkei 225. The
stock closed at $20.24 yesterday in the U.S., where January $21
calls are the fastest-growing options bet this month. Open
interest climbed by 9,664 contracts to 9,993 contracts. October
$23 calls have the highest open interest at 11,204 contracts.  “Sometimes a company that is left for dead can recover,”
Scott Tapley, who helps oversee $2.5 billion at 1st Source
Investment Advisors Inc. in  South Bend ,  Indiana , said in a phone
interview. “But they’ll have to find their own Steve Jobs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  