-- 
South Sudan to Clean Up Civil Service, Oust Unqualified Workers

-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 
2011-10-19T12:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/south-sudan-to-clean-up-civil-service-oust-unqualified-workers.html
Sixty-five percent of South  Sudan ’s
state workers may have falsified their credentials or be
unqualified, and the government has started a campaign to root
them out, Deputy Information Minister Atem Yaak Atem said.  Many state workers got their jobs through family
connections, while others presented forged documents claiming
false educational credentials, Atem said today in an interview
in Juba, capital of newly independent South Sudan. The public
sector, he said, is “in shambles.”  “There are a lot of people with degrees that haven’t even
completed high school,” he said. “Some of us will go to extra
lengths and send an e-mail to that institution, and if the
answer is no, the next thing is to prosecute that person,
because this is fraud.”  South Sudan plans to spend about 42 percent of its almost
$2 billion budget this year on salaries. President  Salva Kiir 
has vowed to fight corruption and increase transparency. The
country gained control of about 75 percent of Sudan’s oil
production when it seceded in July. Kiir has promised to force
government officials to publish details of their finances and to
regulate land sales.  The Ministry of Labour and Public Service has found 21 of
its senior staff members who held forged academic documents,
Atem said.  “I have a feeling they could be in the thousands,” he
said, referring to all ministries. “For this job I think I will
need a bodyguard. Some people will be very angry if we take
drastic measures.”  Atem said government ministries received a letter last week
ordering them to begin the screening process on civil servants.
Each ministry must set up a committee chaired by deputy
ministers.  The government said this month it is implementing monthly
cash limits for spending agencies. Further steps effective from
next month include controls over payments to vendors and the
signing of government contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan, at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  