-- 
South African Inflation, Retail Sales Gain, Keeping Room for Steady Rate

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-10-19T13:41:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/south-african-inflation-accelerates-to-5-7-percent-in-september.html
South Africa’s inflation accelerated
last month, while retail sales expanded more than economists’
forecast in August, adding to expectations the central bank will
keep  interest rates  unchanged.  Consumer prices rose 5.7 percent in September from 5.3
percent in the previous month as higher fuel prices and a weaker
currency boosted costs, the Pretoria-based statistics office
said today on its website. Retail sales grew 7.1 percent in
August from a year earlier, more than the 5.2 median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey.  The rand has plunged 16 percent against the dollar since
the beginning of August, adding to import costs as the central
bank aims to support an economic recovery by keeping its key
interest rate at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent. A recovery in
consumer demand may give the Reserve Bank room to keep the rate
unchanged on Nov. 10 after lowering it three times in 2010.  “The  Reserve Bank  will find comfort in today’s retail
sales, pointing to the fact that the retail sector is not
suggesting rates are too restrictive,” Gina Schoeman, an
economist with Absa Bank Ltd. in Johannesburg said in a
telephone interview. “They will keep rates on hold for longer.
There is nothing in consumption data that is begging for a rate
cut.”  ‘No Evidence’  The central bank has forecast inflation will breach the top
end of its 3 percent to 6 percent target range in the fourth
quarter.  There is “no evidence” that inflation pressures are
becoming entrenched, Deputy Governor Daniel Mminele said
yesterday.  “Inflation is moving up for all the reasons we know,
predominantly administered prices and the weakness of the
rand,”  Colen Garrow , an economist at Brait SA, said in a
telephone interview from Johannesburg today. “I don’t think it
changes the monetary policy stance of the Reserve Bank. It’s
probably becoming more concerned about the economy slowing
down.”  The rand rose 0.4 percent to 7.9669 against the dollar at
1:37 p.m. in Johannesburg. The yield on the R157 government bond
due in 2015 fell 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
6.73 percent today.  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd., South Africa’s second-largest
grocer, said today first-half sales exceeded the 3 percent
increased posted by the local retail industry and accelerated
since the beginning of August.  “Growth in the past six weeks has been above what we’ve
seen in the previous six months,” Chief Executive Office Nick Badminton said. “I am pretty confident our second half will be
better than the first.”  South Africa ’s economy expanded an annualized 1.3 percent
in the second quarter, the slowest pace in almost two years, as
manufacturing and mining output plunged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  