-- 
South Korea and Japan Bolster Credit-Swap Line as Europe Turmoil Deepens

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 
2011-10-19T06:17:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/south-korea-and-japan-bolster-credit-swap-line-as-europe-turmoil-deepens.html
South Korea  and Japan announced they
will increase a currency-swap accord to $70 billion amid
uncertainty over Europe’s fiscal woes and the global economy.  “It’s important to enhance financial and currency
cooperation to preemptively stabilize the financial markets amid
escalating global economic uncertainties,” South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  said at a press conference in Seoul
today after meeting his Japanese counterpart, Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda . The measures include a one-year, $30 billion
dollar swap line and a won-yen agreement of the same amount,
according to a statement released today by the Bank of Korea and
Finance Ministry.  The agreement, which expands a previous $13 billion credit
line, offers the nations protection from funding shocks as
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis deepens and demand in South Korea
and Japan’s largest export markets slow. The won extended gains
after the announcement, rising 1.5 percent to 1,128.70 per
dollar as of 2:37 p.m. in Seoul, approaching the strongest close
since mid-September.  “Korea has no foreign-exchange liquidity problems, but the
credit line can be a big help in case of a crunch,” said Jeong
Young Sik, a research fellow at Samsung Economic Research
Institute in Seoul.  Stabilize Markets  Some $10 billion of the funds made available through the
regional foreign-reserve currency pool known as the Chiang Mai
Initiative, the statement said. South Korea doesn’t have any
plans to tap the credit line now, Vice Finance Minister Shin Je
Yoon told reporters in Seoul today, adding that the deal may
help stabilize the foreign-exchange market.  South Korea and  Japan  agreed to resume talks on free-trade
agreements “as soon as possible,” Lee said. His country is
outpacing Japan in opening up its economy, a process that was
boosted when the U.S. Congress passed  a free-trade agreement
with South Korea this month. South Korea is also making more
progress in increasing exports to  China , Asia’s biggest economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
William Sim in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  