-- 
Splunk Said to Weigh IPO Valuing Software Maker at $1 Billion

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-10-19T21:12:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/splunk-said-to-weigh-ipo-valuing-software-maker-at-1-billion.html
Splunk Inc., a maker of software
that collects and indexes data, is considering an initial public
offering that may value the company at about $1 billion, said
three people familiar with the matter.  Splunk is interviewing bankers to manage the sale, said the
people, who declined to be named because the discussions are
private. In July, San Francisco-based Splunk named David Conte
as chief financial officer, gaining an executive with experience
at a public company. The timing of the offering depends on
market conditions, one of the people said.  Should Splunk file for an IPO, it would join the biggest
backlog of U.S. offerings since 2000, according to  Renaissance
Capital LLC . The pace of initial offerings slowed in the third
quarter as equity markets swooned amid concern about  Europe ’s
debt crisis and a weakening U.S. economy. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index has dropped almost 10 percent since July.  Paul Wilke, a spokesman for Splunk, declined to comment.  Founded in 2004 by Erik Swan, Rob Das and Michael Baum,
Splunk has won business by helping companies monitor and analyze
the electronic data they’re producing every day to improve
 service , cut operations costs and reduce security risks. Splunk
says its software is used by more than 2,900 companies in more
than 70 countries. The company recorded revenue last year of $67
million.  Intel, Hess  Splunk has raised $40 million from venture firms August
Capital, JK&B Capital, Ignition Partners and Sevin Rosen Funds.
The company raised $25 million in 2007 to expand sales and
marketing, build its international operations and develop
partnerships.  Since then, its number of corporate customers has grown
more than sixfold. Splunk said in August that revenue in the
period ended the previous month jumped 70 percent from a year
earlier. Customers include  Intel Corp ., the world’s biggest
semiconductor maker, Hess Corp., a New York-based oil company,
and Korea’s Samsung SDS Co.  Splunk is led by Godfrey Sullivan, who joined the company
as chief executive officer in 2008. He was previously CEO of
Hyperion Solutions Corp. and helped sell the company for $3.3
billion to  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  in 2007. Sullivan replaced co-founder
Baum, who left the company and is now a partner at investment
firm Rembrandt Venture Partners.  CFO Conte joined Splunk from IronKey Inc. Before that, he
held various management positions, including financial chief, at
Opsware Inc., formerly LoudCloud.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  