-- 
ST-Ericsson Reports Wider Third-Quarter Loss as Sales Slump 27 Percent

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-10-19T22:19:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/st-ericsson-reports-wider-third-quarter-loss-as-sales-slump-27-percent.html
ST-Ericsson , the semiconductor joint
venture between Ericsson AB and  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , said its
third-quarter loss widened as sales slumped.  The loss was $211 million, compared with a loss of $121
million a year earlier, the Geneva-based company said in a
statement yesterday. Sales fell 27 percent to $412 million from
$565 million. In July, the company had forecast revenue would be
“about flat sequentially” from $385 million in the second
quarter as gains from new products were outweighed by lower
sales of older ones.  “Our financial performance continues to be challenging,
but in addition to growing sales of new products, we’re on plan
to execute the cost-saving measures announced in June,” Chief
Executive Officer Gilles Delfassy said in the statement.  ST-Ericsson, which makes chips for mobile phones, has
struggled to post a profit since it was formed in 2009. The
company is working on a line of processors for smartphones, the
fastest-growing handset category, amid declines in its older
business of chips for mid-priced feature phones. ST-Ericsson’s
clients include  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and Samsung Electronics Co., the
world’s top two handset makers.  ST-Ericsson announced cost cuts aimed at saving $120
million a year in June and dropped its target date to become
profitable. The cuts will affect as many as 500 jobs, the
company said. The venture previously predicted breaking even in
the second quarter of 2012.  ST-Ericsson expects sales in the fourth quarter to “be
slightly up sequentially,” the company said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  