-- 
St. Jude Narrows Full-Year Earnings Forecast on Cost Cutting

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-10-19T20:06:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/st-jude-medical-narrows-full-year-earnings-forecast.html
St. Jude Medical Inc., maker of
devices to treat irregular heartbeats, narrowed its full-year
profit forecast to take into account currency fluctuations and
the pending approval of its latest defibrillator lead.  St. Jude expects 2011 earnings excluding one-time items of
$3.26 a share to $3.28 a share, compared with an earlier target
of $3.25 to $3.30, the  St. Paul , Minnesota-based company said in
a statement. Third-quarter net income rose 8.7 percent on
products to treat pain and cardiovascular disease, while sales
of pacemakers and defibrillators gained 2 percent even as the
market contracted.  St. Jude’s forecast brackets the analyst consensus of $3.27
a share and suggests 8 percent to 9 percent annual growth, said
 Michael Weinstein , an analyst at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , in a note
to clients today. The company is still waiting for U.S.
regulatory approval of its quadripolar cardiac-resynchronization
therapy lead, known as Quadra, which management has said it
expected early in the fourth quarter.  While the forecast “implies a lower fourth-quarter
earnings per share number than the Street had previously been
modeling, $0.83 to $0.85 versus $0.86, we expect this to be seen
as acceptable to investors in light of what’s played out in the
ICD market in 2011 and the ongoing delay to Quadra,” Weinstein
wrote. The market for implantable cardioverter defibrillators,
or ICDs, plunged in the past year amid a U.S. Justice Department
investigation and questions of overuse.  Profit Rises  Net income climbed to $226.5 million, or 69 cents a share,
in the third quarter, from $208.4 million, or 63 cents, a year
earlier. Earnings excluding some items were 78 cents, exceeding
the average estimate of 76 cents in a Bloomberg survey of 25
analysts.  St. Jude gained 4.3 percent to $38.95 at the close in  New
York . The stock has fallen 2 percent in the past 12 months.  Third-quarter revenue rose 12 percent to $1.38 billion,
meeting analysts’ estimates. Worldwide sales of defibrillators
used to shock a stopped heart back into a normal rhythm gained 1
percent to $445 million.  The company’s Quadra lead transmits an electrical current
to four different locations, instead of the traditional two. The
technology is designed to give doctors more options for
delivering treatment without a second operation to reposition
the wire, allowing them to bypass areas compromised by scar
tissue or that may trigger unwanted side effects.  ‘Stable’ Market  “St. Jude reported results that modestly beat consensus,
but lowered its full year guidance due to currency movements and
the delayed FDA approval of Unify Quadra/Quartet,” wrote
Michael Matson, a senior analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc.
in New York, in a note to investors. “Despite investor fears,
St. Jude’s results and management commentary indicate a stable
cardiac rhythm management market in the third-quarter 2011,
which we view as a positive for its peers.”  Rivals  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , based in Natick,
 Massachusetts , reports third-quarter earnings tomorrow, while
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , based in  Minneapolis , will report Nov. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  