-- 
Sub-Saharan Africa Would Be Hit By Global Slowdown, IMF Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-10-19T08:46:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/sub-saharan-africa-would-be-hit-by-global-slowdown-imf-says.html
Sub-Saharan Africa cannot count on
demand from emerging markets such as  China  to be shielded from
another global slowdown if the outlook in developed economies
worsens, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  If weaknesses in  Europe  and the U.S. drag global growth
down by 1.5 percentage points from the 4 percent foreseen for
this year and next, expansion in a “representative” low-income
country would be cut by 1 percentage point in 2012, the IMF said
today.  South Africa  and other middle-income countries could be
affected more, it said.  “Should advanced economies’ growth slow further, our
expectation is that by lowering import demand, this will lower
growth in many of the large emerging markets,” the IMF wrote in
its  Regional Economic Outlook  published today. “Under these
circumstances, it would be prudent not to expect that either
export demand or commodity prices will be as buoyant in the
future as they have recently been.”  Sub-Saharan  Africa , the world’s poorest region, avoided
recession three years ago as rising demand from China and  India 
for commodities, including copper and platinum, boosted exports.
Under its current scenario, the IMF said it expects growth in
the region to reach 5.25 percent this year and 5.75 percent in
2012.  The area is also facing risks of its own, the IMF said,
citing inflationary pressures in East Africa and political
turmoil. Average consumer-price growth in sub-Saharan Africa
quickened to 10 percent in June, compared with 7.5 percent the
same month a year earlier, driven largely by global food and
fuel prices, Antoinette Sayeh, director of the IMF’s African
Department, told reporters today in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.
The higher prices for goods are becoming entrenched in some
economies, she said.  ‘Very Worrisome’  “We are concerned that the second-round price increases
1are taking hold,” Sayeh said. “That is very worrisome.”  Central banks in some African economies that have been too
slow or even failed to raise  interest rates  following the last
global financial crisis in 2008-2009, should now take action to
stop prices pressures from further building up, Sayeh said.  “Monetary-policy-committee tightening in the region has
been limited,” she said. “Not enough has been done.”  The exceptions are countries such as  Kenya , Sayeh said,
whose central bank raised its key lending rates on Oct. 5 by 4
percentage points to a record 11 percent to combat inflation and
rescue its currency, a day after  Uganda  raised its key lending
rate by the same amount to 20 percent. Kenya’s and Uganda’s
shillings are the world’s worst-performing currencies this year,
each losing about a fifth of their value against the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  