-- 
Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-10-19T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the beige book.  The Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago prepared the latest
report. Information was collected on or before Oct. 7.  Boston: “Business contacts in the First District mostly
continue to see demand growth, but many are toning down their
outlooks. Contacted retailers’ year-over-year percentage sales
changes range from low single digit declines to high single-
digit increases. Responses from manufacturers are mixed, but
most continue to report revenue growth.”  New York: “Economic growth in the Second District has
remained modest since the last report, though there have been
some signs of improvement in the labor market. Manufacturers
report some further deterioration in their assessment of overall
business conditions but note that orders, shipments and
employment levels have been stable.”  Philadelphia: “Business activity in the Third District has
remained mixed, with more positive sectors than negative ones
compared with the previous  Beige Book . In late August and early
September,  Hurricane Irene  and Tropical Storm Lee left dozens of
people injured or dead, damaged or destroyed thousands of homes,
and cost hundreds of millions of dollars in disruption and
damage throughout much of the Third District.”  Cleveland : “Economic activity in the Fourth District
increased slowly during the past six weeks. Manufacturers
reported stable production but a small decline in new orders and
backlogs. Energy companies noted little change in output.
Freight transport volume trended slightly higher. Retail sales
rose slightly, whereas new-car purchases were reported as
mixed.”  Richmond: “Business conditions in the Fifth District were
either weak or weakening in most sectors since our last report.
Manufacturing activity contracted moderately in September, after
pulling back markedly in August. Retail sales also softened. In
addition, activity at non-retail services firms began to
decline. Both residential and commercial real estate activity
remained near the weak levels seen in recent months.”  Atlanta: “Business contacts in the Sixth District
indicated that economic activity continued to expand at a modest
pace in September and early October. Merchants noted that retail
sales decelerated slightly compared with the previous month,
although auto sales continued to advance at a solid pace.
Tourism activity remained robust throughout most of the
District.”  Chicago: “The pace of economic activity in the Seventh
District picked up some in September. However, contacts
continued to note uncertainty about the economic outlook and
expressed concerns about recent financial market developments.
 Consumer spending  was moderately higher and business spending
increased slightly.”  St. Louis : “Reports from contacts in the Eighth District
have been mixed since our previous survey. Manufacturing
activity has continued to increase, while reports of activity in
the services sector have been mixed. Residential real estate
market activity has continued to decline, while commercial real
estate market conditions varied across the District.”  Minneapolis: “The Ninth District economy increased
modestly since the last report. Increased activity was noted in
consumer spending, tourism, residential and commercial
construction, residential and commercial real estate,
professional services, manufacturing, energy and mining. Hiring
at district companies increased slightly, while wage pressures
remained generally subdued.”  Kansas City : “The Tenth District economy improved slightly
in late August and September. Retailers and auto dealers
reported stronger sales and anticipated further gains in the
months ahead. Sales were weaker at restaurants and hotels,
leading to pessimism in these industries as the holiday season
approaches.”  Dallas : “The Eleventh District economy continued to expand
at a modest pace since the last report. Manufacturing activity
was mixed. Service sector activity held mostly steady, although
retailers noted a recent pick-up in sales. There were some signs
of improvement in the housing sector, and apartment demand
remained brisk.”  San Francisco : “Economic activity in the Twelfth District
grew at a moderate pace during the reporting period of September
through early October. Upward price pressures were mixed but
remained modest overall, and upward wage pressures were limited
to a narrow set of skilled occupations. Sales of retail items
rose, as did demand for business and consumer services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington at 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  