-- 
Sun Hung Kai’s $1.5 Billion Bid Below All Estimates Wins Hong Kong Tender

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-10-20T09:25:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/sun-hung-kai-wins-bid-for-mtr-residential-site-at-nam-cheong.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the
world’s biggest developer by market value, won a tender for a
residential project atop a  Hong Kong  subway station with a less-
than-estimated HK$11.8 billion ($1.5 billion) bid.  The lowest prediction in a Bloomberg News poll of five
surveyors for the Nam Cheong site in Sham Shui Po district was
HK$13.2 billion, with a median of HK$14 billion. The site was
sold by  MTR Corp. (66) , the railway operator that gets income from
land sales surrounding its stations.  Hong Kong home prices and transactions have been falling as
equities drop, mortgage rates rise and the government boosts
land supply to quell a surge in apartment values. The government
has sold three sites since August for less than analysts
estimated. Prices may decline 10 percent over 12 months on
higher  mortgage rates , Colliers International Executive Director
Simon Lo said this month.  “The below-consensus price will be negative on the
sentiment of the physical  property market ,” Standard Chartered
Plc’s Hong Kong-based analyst Paul Yau wrote in a report today.
“The developer has factored in some buffer for a possible price
drop.’  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the seven-
biggest builders in Hong Kong including Sun Hung Kai, lost 2.6
at the close, extending its loss this year to 25 percent,
compared with the 22 percent decline in the  Hang Seng Index . Sun
Hung Kai slid 2.1 percent to HK$97.20.  ‘Worsening Sentiment’  The project has total residential gross floor area of
214,700 square meters (2.31 million square feet) and commercial
gross floor of 27,660 square meters, MTR said. The winner must
build at least 3,313 apartments, with 75 percent of the homes
having usable areas of less than 50 square meters each, the
company said.  Nam Cheong station, in the western part of the Kowloon
Peninsula, is a stop-away from the Kowloon station’s luxury
apartment cluster.  “Developers have taken the worsening sentiment into
account,”  James Cheung , a surveyor at Centaline Property Agency
Ltd., the city’s biggest closely held realtor, said before the
tender results. “They’re also mindful of restrictions imposed
on the development site” on unit size.  Other Bidders  Sun Hung Kai beat three other bidders, including  Cheung
Kong  (Holdings) Ltd. and Henderson Land Development Co., and an
unidentified third bidder, according to earlier reports from the
Standard and South China Morning Post newspapers.  Cheung Kong, controlled by  Li Ka-shing , Hong Kong’s richest
man, dropped 2 percent to HK$88.65. Henderson lost 2.6 percent
to HK$38.05.  This is the second time MTR invited bids to develop the
project. The company, one of Hong Kong’s biggest owners of
unoccupied residential sites, withdrew a tender for the site in
May 2010 after receiving only three bids. MTR sells land to
developers in exchange for a cut of profits.  The Hong Kong government has in the past year raised
minimum down-payment requirements for some home purchases, while
senior government officials including Chief Executive  Donald
Tsang  repeatedly warned of the possibility of an asset bubble.  Citigroup Inc. and Bank of Communications Co. have stopped
approving new  mortgage loans  to most Hong Kong customers, Apple
Daily reported today, citing people it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  