-- 
Super-Long Yields May Slide as MOF Signals Short-Debt Focus: Japan Credit

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 
2011-10-19T04:50:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/super-long-yields-may-slide-as-mof-signals-short-debt-focus-japan-credit.html
Japan  may rely on shorter-term debt
to fund reconstruction from its record earthquake, causing the
yields on longer-term debt to fall.  The extra yield 20-year bonds offer over five-year notes is
138 basis points, or 1.38 percentage points, four basis points
higher than the 13-month low reached on Sept. 22. Yesterday’s
sale of five-year debt showed demand was little changed from the
two-year low seen in September, while rates on the securities
are still about even with  Switzerland ’s for the least in the
world at less than 0.4 percent.  Japan’s primary dealers and institutional investors expect
the government to sell notes with maturities of five years or
less for the rest of this fiscal year, a Ministry of Finance
official said last week. The government is gauging demand for
bonds as it compiles its third extra budget, following 6
trillion yen ($78 billion) in measures already announced to cope
with the March 11 quake and tsunami.  “Additional debt issuance has been one key fear for the
market, keeping upward pressure on yields,” said  Akito Fukunaga , Tokyo-based chief rates strategist at the brokerage
unit of Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, one of the 25 primary
dealers obliged to bid at the government sales. “Super long-
term bonds are now less likely to be sold.”  The spending plans add to a record 144.9 trillion yen in
debt sales for fiscal 2011 announced in December. Japan may
increase a third supplementary budget to more than 12 trillion
yen,  Seiji Maehara , policy affairs chief of the ruling
 Democratic Party  of Japan, said last week.  Yesterday’s auction of 2.2 trillion yen in five-year notes
saw bids valued at 2.72 times the amount on offer, compared with
a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 2.68 last month and a 10-sale
average of 3.3. The ministry is scheduled to sell 1.1 trillion
yen of 20-year bonds tomorrow.  New Issuance  Most of the primary dealers who attended last week’s
meeting with the  finance ministry  on Oct. 13 expect the extra
issuance may total about 2 trillion yen, according to a
government official. They expect 200 billion yen will be added
to each monthly auction of debt with maturities of five years or
less, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Japan’s 10-year bonds yielded 1.02 percent today. Yields on
similar-maturity Treasuries were at 2.16 percent.  Low Interest Rates  Japan’s government bonds with a maturity of 10 years or
longer have handed investors a 0.1 percent loss this month,
poised to break the longest stretch of monthly gains since 2003,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data showed.  Primary dealers consider shorter-term securities as stable
investments on prospects the  Bank of Japan  will keep borrowing
costs low, the ministry official said after the Oct. 13 meeting.  The central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a
range of between zero and 0.1 percent on Oct. 7. It also left
unchanged the 15 trillion yen program that buys assets including
government bonds, corporate debt and stock funds.  The two-year overnight-index swap rate, an indication of
what traders expect the BOJ’s key interest rate will average
during the period, was at 0.07 percent today. The comparable
U.S. rate stood at 0.16 percent.  “In an environment where we can’t envision a rate increase
by the BOJ, losses in mid-term notes will be limited even if
they get sold,” said Shinji Hiramatsu, senior investment
manager in Tokyo at Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset Management Co.
Ltd., which oversees about $50 billion.  Excess Funds  Hiramatsu expects consistent purchases of mid-term
securities when yields rise as financial companies look for
places to park excess funds. Customer deposits at banks
surpassed outstanding loans by 164 trillion yen at the end of
September, according to BOJ data, more than the combined annual
economic output of  South Korea  and  Australia .  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, the extra yield
investors demand to hold Japanese corporate debt instead of
 government bonds  was 45 basis points yesterday, compared with
253 basis points globally, according to indexes compiled by Bank
of America Merrill Lynch.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Japanese government bonds
were at 119.4 basis points yesterday, down 35 basis points from
a record reached earlier this month, CMA prices in New York
show. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Senko Co., an Osaka-based logistics company, sold 5 billion
yen of 0.8 percent five-year notes, Daiwa Securities Group Inc.
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Ballooning Debt  The DPJ said last month it planned to raise 9.2 trillion
yen for rebuilding through temporary tax increases and the sale
of the government’s stake in Japan Tobacco Inc.  Signs that the government is trying to limit bond issuance
haven’t erased concern about the nation’s ballooning debt,
according to Naka Matsuzawa, Tokyo-based chief strategist at
Nomura Securities Co., another primary dealer.  Government debt is projected to reach 219 percent of gross
domestic product next year, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development has forecast.  “An auction plan for the next fiscal year hasn’t been
discussed yet,” Matsuzawa wrote in a research note dated Oct.
14. “We need to bear in mind that there is a high chance for
sales of long and super-long debt to be boosted over the next
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  