-- 
Switzerland Stocks Advance on Report of Europe Bailout Fund Expansion

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-10-19T16:09:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/swiss-stocks-advance-on-report-of-europe-bailout-fund-expansion.html
Swiss stocks rose, snapping a two-
day decline, as financial shares advanced following conflicting
reports that  Europe ’s biggest economies have reached a deal on
enhancing a rescue fund for the region.  UBS AG (UBSN)  gained 2.3 percent as the Guardian reported  Germany 
and France have agreed to boost the European Financial Stability
Facility to 2 trillion euros ($2.8 trillion) from 440 billion
euros.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  jumped to the highest price since June
after saying sales of hearing aids rose.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, climbed 0.3 percent to 5,699.98 at
the close in Zurich. Even so, the gauge has still tumbled 11
percent this year as Europe’s debt crisis and disappointing U.S.
economic reports fueled concern the global recovery is
faltering. The broader Swiss Performance Index added 0.4 percent
today.  “Financial press reports have helped refuel hopes and
optimism over a solution for the bailout fund,” said Trung-Tin Nguyen, a hedge-fund manager at TTN AG in Zurich. “Corporate
earnings were solid and helped sustain the rally.”  While the Guardian reported that  France  and Germany had
agreed to boost the EFSF to 2 trillion euros, the Financial
Times Deutschland said that German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers in Berlin that the EFSF’s firepower may
be increased to a maximum of 1 trillion euros through an
insurance model.  ’Still Working’  France and Germany are still working on how to increase the
effective power of the rescue fund, a person with direct
knowledge of the talks told Bloomberg News. Such a measure needs
to be part of a comprehensive agreement to help banks and
 Greece , said the person who declined to be named.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  late yesterday said that
the euro-area summit on Oct. 23 will mark an “important step,”
though not the final one, in solving the debt crisis. The
comments marked the second time in two days that she sought to
lower expectations.  “The market is for sure optimistic that there will be a
‘big shot’ solution over the long-term,” Nguyen said.  A U.S. Commerce Department report showed that housing
starts in the world’s largest economy increased more than
forecast in September.  Builders began work on 658,000 houses at an annual rate, up
15 percent from August and the most since April 2010, data
showed. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called
for a 590,000 pace. Multifamily home starts surged to the
highest since October 2008.  Banks Rally  Financial shares paced gains, with UBS, Switzerland’s
largest lender, advancing 2.3 percent to 10.74 Swiss francs.
 Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , the country’s biggest insurer,
climbed 2 percent to 200.40 francs and Baloise Holding AG rose 2
percent to 69.40 francs.  Sonova, a maker of hearing health-care products, soared 13
percent to 86.75 francs, its highest price since June 10. The
volume of trading in its shares surged to 2 1/2 times the
average in the last three months. Sales of hearing aids
increased 7 percent in the first half excluding acquisitions,
the company said today.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-biggest cement maker.
gained 1.5 percent to 53.20 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at  
 axydias@bloomberg.net .   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  