-- 
U.A.E. Property Prices, Rents May Drop Further 20%, Arqaam Says

-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 
2011-10-19T05:06:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-a-e-property-prices-rents-may-drop-further-20-arqaam-says.html
Property prices and rents in the
 United Arab Emirates  may drop a further 20 percent this year and
next because of excess supply, Arqaam Capital said.  “There is a further leg down to the U.A.E. property market
before residential prices and rents recover,” analyst Mohammad Kamalwrote in a report dated yesterday. “We see a further 15
percent to 20 percent in downside to prices and rents in
financial year 2011 and 2012.”  Dubai’s property market had one of the world’s biggest
reversals following the global credit crisis three years ago,
with home prices slumping 64 percent since they peaked in mid-
2008, Deutsche Bank AG estimates.  Abu Dhabi  will continue to
have excess of most types of properties, leading to a further
decline in rental and sale prices, Jones Lang LaSalle said in a
research report on Oct. 16.  “Genuine revival triggers will only appear in a broad
macroeconomic recovery, via job creation, a rise in
discretionary spending, continued regulatory evolution, resumed
mortgage lending, and growth in tourist flows,” Kamal said.  Arqaam started coverage of  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the
developer of the world’s biggest tower in Dubai, with a “buy”
recommendation and a price estimate of 4 dirhams.  Aldar
Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , Abu Dhabi’s biggest developer, was initiated
with “sell” and an estimate of 1 dirham, while  Sorouh Real
Estate Co. (SOROUH)  was started with “hold” and an estimate of 1.10
dirhams.  “Emaar Properties has been unduly penalized, due to
skepticism over the viability of international operations, and
lingering doubts over the ability of the business to scale up
hotel and retail recurring revenues to drive growth and cash
flow generation,” according to the report.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  