-- 
U.K. Stocks Rebound From Two Days of Losses; Lloyds, BSkyB Climb

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-10-19T15:46:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-k-stocks-rebound-from-two-days-of-losses-as-lloyds-rbs-bskyb-advance.html
U.K. stocks advanced, rebounding
from two days of losses, amid conflicting newspaper reports that
Germany and France have agreed to further boost the euro area’s
bailout fund, the European Financial Stability Facility.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS)  jumped more than 3 percent.  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY)  climbed after saying operating profit rose 16 percent.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  increased 0.7 percent to
5,450.49 at the close in London. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  and
Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 0.5 percent. The FTSE 100 has
advanced for the past three weeks amid optimism that European
policy makers will devise a solution to the crisis that has
brought Greece to the brink of default.  “The mood in equity markets turned amidst suggestions that
an agreement had been reached over bolstering the EFSF,” Ben Critchley, a sales trader at IG Index in London, wrote in a
note. “Such suggestions were quickly met with rebuttals,
however, it’s been difficult to establish the veracity of either
call, so for the time being at least, traders do seem to be
taking the glass-half-full approach.”  The Guardian newspaper reported that  Germany  and France
have agreed to boost the region’s rescue fund, known as the
 EFSF , to 2 trillion euros ($2.8 trillion) from 440 billion
euros. German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told lawmakers
from the country’s governing Christian Democratic Union that the
euro area may increase the EFSF to a maximum of 1 trillion euros
through an insurance model, Financial Times Deutschland said.  French, German Talks  France and Germany are still working on how to increase the
power of the rescue fund as part of a comprehensive agreement to
help banks and Greece, a person with direct knowledge of the
talks told Bloomberg News.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel late yesterday said that
the euro-area summit on Oct. 23 will mark an “important step,”
though not the final one in solving the debt crisis. The
comments marked the second time in two days that the German
government sought to lower expectations.  Lloyds jumped 3.4 percent to 33.15 pence. RBS climbed 3.1
percent to 24.47 pence.  BSkyB rallied 5.1 percent to 710 pence. The U.K.’s biggest
pay-TV broadcaster said fiscal first-quarter operating profit
increased 16 percent as the company sold more products such as
broadband to its existing subscribers.  Earnings before interest and taxes and other items rose to
295 million pounds ($466 million) in the three months through
September from a year earlier, the Isleworth, England-based
company said today. Analysts had estimated 286.5 million.  Latin America  Growth  Diageo Plc (DGE)  added 4 percent to 1,331 pence. The world’s
largest distiller reported sales growth in its fiscal first
quarter that exceeded analysts’ estimates, boosted by growth in
Latin America, Asia and Africa. The company said so-called
organic sales growth climbed 9 percent, exceeding the median
analyst estimate of 5.1 percent.  Ashtead Group Plc (AHT) , a U.K. equipment-rental company, surged
6 percent to 159.8 pence. U.S. peer United Rentals Inc. reported
third-quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  Aegis Group Plc (AGS) , an advertising-planning company, climbed
3.3 percent to 138.7 pence. The stock was raised to
“overweight” from “neutral” at HSBC Holdings Plc.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , the designer of chips used in Apple Inc.
devices, slipped 1.9 percent to 580.5 pence after the
California-based maker of iPhones and iPads reported profit that
missed analysts’ estimates for the first time in at least six
years.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  sank 17 percent to 99.5 pence after
saying first-half earnings plunged 70 percent. The owner of the
U.K.’s Homebase home-improvement chain said sales since the end
of the period have failed to improve as expected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 