-- 
Chevron Says U.S. Energy Policy Rife With Contradictions

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-10-19T18:27:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-energy-policy-rife-with-contradictions-chevron-chief-says.html
U.S. energy policy is rife with
contradictions and companies gain access to natural resources
“by exception, not by rule,”  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer John Watson said.  The U.S. needs to encourage production of oil and natural
gas rather than limiting energy development, Watson said today
in written remarks for a speech at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington.  “No matter where you look in the world --  China  and
developing Asia, the  Middle East , Latin America or Africa -- the
development of affordable fossil fuels is at the top of the
policy agenda,” he said. “Without a change in U.S. policy, we
will continue to be marginalized in the global competition for
energy.”  Chevron, based in San Ramon, California, joined oil
companies such as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , trade associations led
by  the American Petroleum Institute  and Texas Governor Rick Perry, a Republican presidential candidate, in criticizing
President Barack Obama’s administration for limiting access to
domestic fuel resources and increasing dependence on imports.  Watson said an estimated $1 billion investment to update
Chevron’s refinery in Richmond,  California , required four years
of review and was halted by a lawsuit. Chevron is refiling for
permits for the project near  San Francisco , he said.  Shell’s Alaska Experience  Marvin Odum , the president of Shell’s U.S. operations,
called the the U.S. regulatory system “reactionary” and
overburdened in a July 28 speech at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
in Washington. He cited The Hague-based company’s experience in
Alaska, where it hasn’t been allowed to drill after spending
more than $2 billion in a 2008 purchase of federal leases.  Perry said in an Oct. 14 speech that Obama intentionally
pushed up oil and gas prices, and the governor urged opening
swaths of Alaska and additional areas to oil development.  The Obama administration proposal to increase taxes for the
oil industry would reduce U.S. competitiveness for U.S. energy
companies relative to their Chinese, Russian and Indian
counterparts, Watson said.  He compared his California company with another:  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , based in Cupertino.  “Apple earns about what we earn, but Apple has profit
margins two times Chevron’s, and an effective tax rate one-third
less, about 28 percent,” Watson said today. “Yet we don’t hear
calls for tax increases on Apple or the tech sector.”  Renewable Energy  The transformation from fossil fuels to renewable
substitutes should be market-driven, Watson also said.  “The United States is now coming to grips with high-cost,
subsidized renewable,” he said.  Solyndra LLC, a solar-panel manufacturer that received
about $527 million in federal loan guarantees, shut down on Aug.
31.  Adam Fetcher, Interior Department spokesman, and Damien LaVera, a spokesman for the Energy Department, didn’t
immediately return e-mails seeking comments.  Chevron is the second-largest U.S. oil company behind  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  of Irving, Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  