-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-19T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK  Economic growth in the Second District has remained modest since
the last report, though there have been some signs of
improvement in the labor market. Manufacturers report some
further deterioration in their assessment of overall business
conditions but note that orders, shipments and employment levels
have been stable.  Consumer spending , on the other hand, has been
comparatively robust, despite low levels of consumer confidence:
auto dealers report brisk business in August and September, non-
auto retail contacts report that sales have been on or ahead of
plan, and tourism activity has remained strong. Commercial real
estate markets have been mixed but, on balance, slightly
stronger since the last report. Home sales have been mixed, with
scattered signs of a pickup, while the rental market has
continued to strengthen. New home construction remains stalled,
aside from rental apartments. There has been substantial new
hotel development in Manhattan. Conditions in  New York City ’s
key securities industry have weakened noticeably. Finally,
bankers report a pickup in demand for residential  mortgage loans 
(largely refinancing), a slight increase in demand for non-
residential mortgages, some easing in credit standards for
business loans, and little change in delinquency rates.  Consumer Spending  Non-auto retailers report that same store sales were mostly on
or ahead of plan in August and September and moderately ahead of
a year earlier. A number of contacts describe back-to-school
sales as fairly strong. One major mall in western New York State
notes that a large flow of Canadian shoppers has contributed
significantly to strong overall sales. While stores across much
of the District had fairly widespread disruptions from  Hurricane
Irene , the effects were relatively brief and there was little or
no net effect on sales or bottom line. Inventories are generally
reported to be in good shape, though one chain describes them as
a bit high. While some retailers reported sizable price
increases for cotton-based apparel, others indicated that they
have held off on such increases thus far; prices of other retail
goods were generally reported to be steady to down slightly.  Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales picked up
since the last report, helped by a replenishment of their
inventories, as disruptions from the tsunami in  Japan  earlier
this year dissipated. Buffalo-area dealers estimate that sales
of new vehicles were up 5-10 percent from a year ago in both
August and September. Rochester-area dealers indicate year-over-
year sales gains of 11 percent in August and in the range of 10-
15 percent for September. Auto dealers in both areas continue to
report strong sales of used cars, with persistently lean
inventories driving up prices. Dealers’ service and parts
departments also report sturdy business. Auto-industry contacts
describe both retail and wholesale credit conditions as “fine”.  Consumer confidence  remains at depressed levels. The Conference
Board reports that consumer confidence among residents of the
Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, PA) fell in August and edged
down further in September. Siena College reports that consumer
confidence fell across most of New York State in the third
quarter, with the steepest declines seen in New York City and
the mid-Hudson Valley; only the  Albany  region saw an increase in
confidence. Tourism activity in New York City has shown
continued strength since the last report. Broadway theaters
report that, aside from a brief swoon in business in late August
due to Hurricane Irene, attendance has been fairly strong and
roughly on par with a year earlier. Moreover, revenues for the
full month of September were up nearly 10 percent from a year
earlier, despite fewer than usual Broadway shows opening this
fall.  Manhattan  hotels report that revenue per room was up
roughly 6 percent from a year ago in both August and September,
despite the hurricane. Most of this increase reflects higher
room rates, as occupancy rates were little changed. Nevertheless,
this implies a sizeable rise in tourism, because there are 6-7
percent more hotel rooms in Manhattan than a year ago.  Construction and Real Estate  Residential construction remains moribund, particularly for
single-family homes. Home sales have picked up a bit in parts of
the District but remain weak overall, while the rental market
has continued to strengthen. The housing market in northern  New
Jersey  remains sluggish: with a dearth of new  home construction ,
aside from some development of rental projects, the inventory of
distressed properties has declined slightly but remains large;
sales volume remains sluggish, and  home prices  have held steady
and appear to have bottomed out. After a strong July and August,
sales of Manhattan apartments tapered off in September; while
co-op sales have been relatively sluggish, condominium sales
have been buoyed by foreign buyers. The inventory of available
newlyconstructed condos has declined considerably in recent
months but remains elevated. The lowering of the jumbo mortgage
threshold from $730,000 to $625,500 on October 1st appears to
have had little effect on the market. Overall, co-op and condo
prices remain essentially flat. New York City’s rental market
continues to strengthen. Net effective rents (which take into
account landlord concessions that were prevalent a year ago but
are now rare) are up roughly 5 percent from a year ago, with
steeper increases at the high end of the market. Realtors in
western New York State note that market conditions have improved
slightly, with sales picking up and prices up slightly from a
year ago.  Commercial real estate markets have been mixed since the last
report. In New York City and metropolitan Buffalo, office
vacancy rates declined in the third quarter, while rents moved
up. However, vacancy rates rose in Westchester and Fairfield
counties and were little changed across other parts of the
District, while asking rents were generally down modestly. The
market for industrial and warehouse space has not changed
noticeably, except in metropolitan Albany and northern New
Jersey, where asking rents are down moderately from a year ago.
New office construction and development remains sluggish, but a
number of major hotel development projects have been announced
recently or are already underway in New York City.  Other Business Activity  A financial industry contact notes that securities firms have
not been doing well recently, with all major business lines--
including sales & trading, underwriting, and IPOs--weakening.
Declining profits, along with uncertainty about the regulatory
environment, are reportedly causing firms to pull back on hiring
and compensation; some layoffs are also anticipated in this
industry the months ahead. More generally, a major New York City
employment agency reports that the job market has improved a bit
since Labor Day but is still sluggish; hiring activity is
described as not terrible but not great--again partly reflecting
weakness in the financial sector. In other sectors, though,
labor market conditions have been steady to slightly stronger
since the last report. Two major retail chains indicate that
they plan to hire more seasonal workers for the upcoming holiday
season than in 2010. Both manufacturers and firms in a variety
of service sectors indicate that employment levels have been
steady since the last report, and that they plan to increase
headcounts over the next six months.  Manufacturing firms across New York State indicate that their
assessment of general business conditions has deteriorated
further since the last report, although they note that orders
and shipments have held steady. Respondents in that sector
anticipate only modest improvement in business conditions and
activity in the months ahead. Manufacturers also note that input
price pressures have moderated somewhat and that selling prices
have remained essentially stable.  Financial Developments  Bankers’ responses suggest increased demand for residential and
commercial mortgages and no change in demand for consumer loans
or commercial and industrial loans. Increased demand was most
prevalent for residential mortgages, where three times as many
bankers indicated an increase as a decrease in demand. Much of
this appears to reflect increased refinancing activity. Bankers
report some slight tightening of credit standards for commercial
and industrial loans, but in other loan categories, almost all
contacts indicated no change in standards. Respondents report a
decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all
loan categories--especially commercial mortgages. Respondents
also indicated widespread decreases in the average deposit rate.
Finally, bankers indicate a modest decrease in delinquency rates
for residential mortgages, but a slight increase in
delinquencies for commercial and industrial loans. No change was
indicated in other loan categories. 