-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Oct. Beige Book Summary (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-19T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-federal-reserve-oct-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text of
the  Federal Reserve  Board’s Summary of Commentary.  SUMMARY  Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicate that
overall economic activity continued to expand in September,
although many Districts described the pace of growth as “modest”
or “slight” and contacts generally noted weaker or less certain
outlooks for business conditions. The reports suggest that
consumer spending was up slightly in most Districts, with auto
sales and tourism leading the way in several of them. Business
spending increased somewhat, particularly for construction and
mining equipment and auto dealer inventories, but many Districts
noted restraint in hiring and capital spending plans. By sector,
manufacturing and transportation activity was reported to have
increased on balance. A few Districts also reported slight
improvements in construction and real estate activity;
nonetheless, overall conditions for both residential and
commercial real estate remained weak. Districts reporting on
nonfinancial services cited mixed results with activity varying
widely by industry. Loan demand by and large moved lower, with
the exception of an increase in mortgage refinancing in many
Districts. Crop conditions at harvest were generally less
favorable than a year ago. In contrast, energy and mining
activity continued to strengthen in several Districts, with the
exception of some storm-related slowdowns in the Gulf of Mexico.
Cost pressures eased in the majority of Districts, though there
was some further pass-through of earlier increases to downstream
prices. Wage pressures remained subdued outside of a few
exceptions in which firms noted having difficulty finding
appropriately skilled workers.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism. Consumer spending was up slightly
in September. The majority of Districts reported increases in
auto sales, with the largest improvements in San Francisco and
New York. Several Districts noted a greater availability of new
vehicles as the supply disruptions that had plagued auto
dealerships in the aftermath of the Japanese disaster subsided.
Contacts in the  Cleveland , New York, Philadelphia, and  Dallas 
Districts indicated that demand for used cars remained high and
that some models were still scarce. A large number of Districts
reported that non-auto retail sales were flat to down in
September; but a few, such as Philadelphia, Richmond, and Dallas
noted an increase in customer traffic late in the month and into
early October. Back-to-school sales were described as being
fairly strong in  New York  and satisfactory in Richmond. In
addition,  Boston ,  Chicago ,  Kansas City , and Dallas cited some
strength in the sales of big-ticket or luxury items, while
 Minneapolis  and Chicago noted that more consumers were trading
down to value products at grocery stores.  Tourism was generally higher in those Districts reporting on the
sector. Contacts in New York noted that, despite the negative
impact of  Hurricane Irene , Broadway and hotel revenues continued
to rise. Richmond reported substantial damage from Hurricane
Irene to some tourist destinations that were subsequently forced
to close for repairs, but tourism remained vibrant in other
areas. Boston, Atlanta, and Minneapolis also cited increases in
tourism, with hospitality contacts in Atlanta expecting a robust
holiday season. Tourism results were mixed across various
destinations in the San Francisco district.  Business Spending. Business spending increased somewhat from the
previous report. However, contacts in a number of Districts
reported that a weaker and more uncertain economic outlook had
increased caution and was weighing on future spending plans.
Philadelphia, Richmond, and Chicago indicated that many
retailers were reluctant to build inventories ahead of the
holiday season, pointing to recent declines in  consumer
confidence . Auto dealers were an exception, as they continued to
replenish inventories that ran low in the aftermath of the
production disruptions caused by the Japanese disaster.  Capital
spending  continued as planned in most Districts. Respondents in
Cleveland, Atlanta, and Chicago noted increased purchases of
equipment in the manufacturing, mining, and transportation
industries. Boston and Minneapolis indicated that some
manufacturers planned to expand capacity either through mergers
and acquisitions or the building of additional facilities.
Atlanta cited a pick-up in corporate expansion and relocation
interest, and Chicago noted an increase in mergers and
acquisitions activity among middle-market firms.  Nonfinancial Services. Reports regarding nonfinancial services
were mixed in September. Richmond noted slower overall activity,
and  St. Louis  cited reduced demand for telecommunications, media,
and education services. Demand for accounting and legal services
was reported to have been unchanged in both Dallas and  San
Francisco . On the positive side, contacts in St. Louis reported
that demand for business support services increased, and Boston
reported strong business conditions for economic consulting
firms involved with litigation work and advertising firms
helping to market financial services. In addition, San Francisco
noted continued growth in demand for technology services,
Minneapolis noted an increase in activity in software and
engineering, and Philadelphia cited some growth in logistics.
Staffing at nonfinancial service-sector firms was reported to
have been up slightly in Richmond, but growth slowed in Chicago
and Philadelphia reported flat activity.  Manufacturing and Transportation. Contacts indicated that
manufacturing and transportation activity increased since the
last report in most Districts. A large number of Districts
reported higher production of autos and other transportation-
related equipment. Cleveland, Atlanta, and Chicago noted
increases in auto production, and Boston, Richmond, Chicago, and
St. Louis all cited robust activity for auto suppliers. Dallas
reported healthy demand for nondefense transportation goods.
Boston, Richmond, Kansas City, and San Francisco indicated
continued growth in commercial aviation and aerospace
manufacturing. Steel production rose in Cleveland and Chicago,
and in a number of Districts metal manufacturers’ new orders
also rose. Other areas of manufacturing were more mixed. The
Dallas report noted a decline in refining activity. However,
both Dallas and Atlanta continued to note robust oil and gas
drilling activity, and this activity was said to be propelling
demand for related equipment from suppliers in Chicago.
Manufacturing of construction materials or equipment was
reported to have increased some in Philadelphia, Chicago, and
Dallas but remained weak in most other Districts. Growth in
high-tech manufacturing continued to be robust in Boston, but
moderated in Dallas and San Francisco. Respondents reported that
food production was up in Chicago, Minneapolis, and San
Francisco, steady in Dallas, and lower in Boston. Manufacturers
of consumer products reported a softening in orders in Richmond,
Chicago, and Dallas, while new orders for apparel increased in
San Francisco. Freight traffic increased in Cleveland and
Atlanta, driven in large part by shipments of commodities, and
Richmond also noted that port activity for commodities continued
to be robust. However, Richmond also indicated that imports and
exports, in particular of  consumer goods , were both somewhat
soft during what is typically the peak season for trade.  Real Estate and Construction. All twelve Districts reported that
real estate and construction activity was little changed on
balance from the prior report. Residential construction remained
at low levels, particularly for single-family homes. That said,
Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Minneapolis noted small increases
in single-family construction, and construction of multifamily
dwellings continued to increase at a moderate pace in Boston,
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.
Home sales remained weak overall, and  home prices  were reported
to be either flat or declining across all of the Districts. In
contrast, rental demand continued to rise in a number of
Districts. Commercial real estate conditions remained weak
overall, although commercial construction increased at a slow
pace in most Districts. Boston, Philadelphia, St. Louis and
Cleveland cited some gains in demand for construction of
education, healthcare, and institutional-related buildings, and
New York reported an increase in hotel development. Furthermore,
Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Chicago noted an increase in demand
for manufacturing and distribution facilities. Vacancy rates
remained elevated, but Boston, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis and
Dallas reported an increase in leasing activity and Philadelphia
and San Francisco indicated rising investor interest in well-
leased office space.  Banking and Finance. Financial activity was reported to have
weakened some since the last report. Dallas noted that the
improvement in financial conditions had stalled, and Chicago
indicated a further tightening of credit conditions,
particularly for financial firms. In addition, New York reported
noticeably weaker activity in the securities industry. Loan
volumes were either flat or down slightly in most Districts.
Consumer loan demand moved lower according to respondents in
Cleveland, Chicago, and Kansas City, and it held steady in New
York and San Francisco. However, New York, Philadelphia,
Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Kansas City all noted an
increase in mortgage refinancing activity given lower  mortgage
rates  and Cleveland also noted continued strength in auto
lending and increased demand for business loans. Meanwhile,
business loan demand was described as down somewhat in
Philadelphia, Chicago, St. Louis, and Kansas City and was little
changed in most other Districts. Loan standards were described
as still tight for many classes of borrowers. That said, several
Districts indicated that strong competition among banks for high
quality borrowers was leading to lower rates and fees for these
customers.  Agriculture and Natural Resources. Contacts generally reported
that crop conditions at harvest were less favorable than a year
ago, although results varied by and within Districts. Lower
yields than a year ago were reported for major crops in the
Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts and in most of the
Kansas City District. Even so, yields were large enough to
alleviate worries about shortages. Corn, soybean, and wheat
prices moved down, while some contacts noted higher prices for
cotton. Drought conditions persisted in the Atlanta, Kansas City,
and Dallas Districts, and pastures were in worse shape than a
year ago in many areas. Although there were declines in feed
costs, poultry and livestock producers remained pressured by
drought and the cost increases of the past year. Hog, poultry,
and dairy prices decreased, while cattle prices increased. Still,
agricultural prices tended to be higher than a year ago,
boosting farm incomes outside of drought-stricken areas. Chicago
and Kansas City reported higher agricultural land values.  Activity in energy-producing sectors strengthened in the
Cleveland, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco
Districts. Atlanta reported a decrease in off-shore operations
in the  Gulf of Mexico  due to Tropical Storm Lee. Cleveland and
Atlanta also anticipated increased capital investments in oil
and gas production, since new technology has lowered costs and
boosted output. Contacts in Minneapolis reported plans for
expanded wind generation of electricity. Mining activity in the
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts was strong.  Employment, Wages, and Prices. Respondents indicated that labor
market conditions were little changed, on balance, in September.
Several Districts cited only limited and selective demand for
new hires. Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and Kansas
City all noted that firms in some sectors that were hiring more
broadly (such as manufacturing, transportation, and energy) were
also experiencing difficulties in finding appropriately skilled
or qualified labor. Respondents in the Boston, Richmond, Atlanta,
and Chicago Districts indicated that hiring was being restrained
by elevated uncertainty or lower expectations for their future
growth. New York reported that deteriorating business conditions
in the finance industry had led to a pull back in hiring with
some layoffs anticipated in the months ahead. Richmond and
Chicago reported reduced seasonal hiring in retail trade given
apprehension about the strength of holiday sales, while New York
indicated that seasonal hiring was likely to increase.  Most Districts reported that wage pressures remained subdued.
Exceptions were generally for workers with specialized skills or
in areas where firms were having difficulty finding workers. For
instance, Atlanta and San Francisco cited wage gains for workers
with specialized skills, such as in information technology,
Minneapolis reported wage increases in the  energy industry , and
Cleveland noted higher wages for truck drivers. In addition,
contacts in Minneapolis and Cleveland noted increases in non-
wage costs such as healthcare. Most other cost pressures
moderated in September. Although Kansas City and San Francisco
reported increases in raw material costs, most Districts
reported a general decline in commodity prices, including prices
of oil and industrial metals. Many Districts indicated that
there continued to be some further pass-through of past
increases to wholesale prices. Though retail contacts noted a
hesitation to increase prices with demand still weak, many
Districts reported increased pass-through of costs in the retail
sector, particularly for food and cotton-based goods.  * Prepared at the Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago and based on
information collected on or before October 7, 2011. This
document summarizes comments received from business and other
contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on
the views of Federal Reserve officials. 