-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-19T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  SEVENTH DISTRICT--CHICAGO  Summary. The pace of economic activity in the Seventh District
picked up some in September. However, contacts continued to note
uncertainty about the economic outlook and expressed concerns
about recent financial market developments.  Consumer spending 
was moderately higher and business spending increased slightly.
Manufacturing production picked up, while construction was
little changed. Credit conditions again tightened. There was
further pass-through of elevated wholesale prices to the retail
level. Corn, soybean, wheat, milk, and hog prices decreased,
while cattle prices increased.  Consumer spending. Consumer spending was up moderately in
September. Auto sales were higher, due in part to increased
incentives. On balance, non-auto retail sales were essentially
flat, though there were considerable differences in sales growth
across types of goods. For instance, spending on electronics and
appliances was up, while spending on furniture and apparel was
down. Sales of  luxury goods  continued to show some strength, and
sales in the lower price ranges of essential goods like personal
care items and groceries also rose. Retailers’ outlook for
consumer spending remained very uncertain; and several contacts
indicated that lower consumer confidence and spending fatigue
after heavier-than normal-promotions during the back-to-school
season had made them less optimistic about the upcoming holiday
season.  Business spending. Business spending increased slightly in
September. Several manufacturing and construction contacts
reported purchasing equipment, with the incentive to take
advantage of a higher level of accelerated tax depreciation set
to expire at year-end adding to the expected benefits of
expanding capacity and improving efficiency. A few manufacturers
who anticipated stronger demand also reported building
inventories of raw materials now due to concerns about potential
long lead times for these inputs in the future. In contrast,
retailers were closely monitoring inventories, and some were
paring them back. Hiring remained slow. A staffing firm noted
slower growth of billable hours for staffing and professional
services. In contrast, shortages of qualified candidates were
reported in healthcare,  information technology , engineering, and
skilled manufacturing trades. These were most problematic in
manufacturing, and many manufacturers indicated that they were
addressing the shortfalls through training programs (including
cross-training) for new and existing employees. Looking ahead, a
recruitment firm indicated that many employers have lowered
their expectations for staffing needs in the coming year. Retail
contacts expected minimal seasonal hiring this holiday season,
and instead planned to lengthen the workweek for permanent
workers.  Construction/real estate. Construction activity was again
subdued in September. Residential real estate conditions
remained weak; builders reported very little new single-family
home construction and showroom traffic remained steady at a low
level. Mortgage refinancing, however, picked up with the recent
declines in  mortgage rates . Nonresidential construction was
little changed, on balance. Contacts noted an increase in
industrial demand, in particular from manufacturing and
distribution clients, whereas demand from the retail sector
leveled off. Commercial real estate conditions improved slightly,
with vacancy rates edging down, rents stabilizing, and
incentives to attract new tenants increasing. Subleasing
activity also rose, with contacts noting an increase in seasonal
demand for short-term sublets in strip malls.  Manufacturing. Manufacturing production rebounded in September,
with new orders and order backlogs increasing. Demand for heavy
equipment was strong, led by robust activity in the construction,
energy, and mining sectors. Contacts attributed much of the
pick-up in construction equipment to replacement of dealer
rental fleet inventory, which they expect to continue moving
forward. Demand for heavy and medium-duty trucks also increased.
Auto production was higher in September, reflecting rebuilding
of inventories. District auto suppliers reported that recent
orders had exceeded expectations along with concerns of being
able to meet any additional demand in the near-term. Capacity
utilization in the  steel industry  remained elevated. Production
of industrial metals was up, while manufacturers of consumer
products reported some softening. Activity for food processors
continued to be robust. Contacts were cautiously optimistic
about near-term prospects, pointing to continued gains in
productivity, strength in demand from Asia and  Brazil , and
increased sales to local manufacturers looking to shorten their
supply chains in the aftermath of the disruptions caused by the
Japanese disasters in the spring. However, they remained
concerned about the global economic outlook, with several noting
a reluctance to expand capacity given elevated uncertainty.  Banking/finance. Credit conditions tightened further in
September. Volatility in financial markets remained elevated,
although it was lower than in August. Corporate funding costs
edged higher, particularly for financial firms, even though
benchmark  interest rates  moved lower. Banking contacts noted
softer business and consumer loan demand, as clients were
pulling back on spending in light of increased risks coming from
 Europe  and the weakness in U.S. economic activity. Most lending
activity was still in the form of refinancing, which picked up
with lower long-term interest rates. In another positive sign,
contacts noted an increase in M&A activity among middle-market
firms, even with the increase in spreads and lower liquidity in
the high yield and term loan markets.  Prices/costs. Raw materials prices declined, but continued to
put pressure on costs in September. Prices for industrial metals
like copper and steel eased further, but contacts again reported
extended lead times for specialty metals as well as some
shortages. Energy prices were also lower, and fuel surcharges
began to decline. Conversely, retailers indicated that wholesale
price pressures intensified, with food prices still elevated and
prices for cotton-based goods rising. While some retailers
continued to absorb some of these higher costs in their margins,
pass-through to downstream prices increased. Wage pressures
remained moderate.  Agriculture. Harvest conditions varied across the District. Some
parts were experiencing a slower-than-usual harvest due to late
planting or fall rains that degraded crop quality. Other
portions of the District were experiencing a fairly normal
harvest. Corn and soybean yields appeared to be lower and more
variable than a year ago. Nonetheless, yields were adequate to
replenish inventories to levels that eased worries about
shortages. Inventories also were boosted over the summer by
lower exports and reduced usage of crops for livestock feed.
Corn and soybean prices did back off during the reporting
period; however, a sizeable portion of the crop had been sold
prior to this decline. Lower prices for feedstocks provided
relief to livestock operators. Prices for milk and hogs declined
while cattle price rose; all three remained above the levels of
a year ago. Farmland values and cash rental rates continued to
rise in the District. 