-- 
U.S. Bancorp Income Rises to Record on Gains in Revenue, Credit Quality

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-10-19T11:34:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-bancorp-income-rises-on-gains-in-revenue-credit-quality.html
U.S. Bancorp, the nation’s fifth-
largest commercial bank, posted a 40 percent gain in third-
quarter profit as revenue and lending expanded and fewer
borrowers fell behind on payments.  Net income at the Minneapolis-based company climbed to a
record $1.27 billion, or 64 cents a diluted share, from $908
million, or 45 cents, in the same period a year earlier. The
average estimate of 30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for 62
cents per share.  Chief Executive Officer  Richard Davis , 53, has vowed to
counter slow industry growth by taking market share. The bank
expanded during the credit crisis, adding employees, upgrading
technology and buying failed lenders in government-backed deals.
The stock is one of only five in the 24-company KBW Bank Index
showing a gain for the past 12 months.  “The biggest pressure points for the banks reporting so
far have been net interest income and  capital markets ,” Brian
Foran, an analyst with Nomura Securities International Inc. in
New York, said in an interview before results were announced.
“USB has a capital-markets business, but it’s very small, so
really the key for them becomes, can they grow net interest
income?” Foran has a ’’buy’’ recommendation on the shares.  Revenue Gains  Revenue increased 4.5 percent to $4.8 billion as net
interest income advanced 5.9 percent. Average total loans grew
5 percent, the bank said.  Davis predicted net charge-offs and nonperforming assets
will improve in the fourth quarter. The bank’s $150 million
reserve release was less than in the previous quarter because
the outlook for charge-offs in consumer loans is stabilizing.  “We continued to benefit from the investments we have made
in our business lines and the overall flight to quality,” Davis
said in the statement. The bank expects it will be able to buy
back more shares, he said.  Headwinds include new limits on debit-card “swipe” fees,
which could cost U.S. Bancorp about $300 million a year in
revenue, according to a presentation earlier this year. The
 Federal Reserve  capped fees at 21 cents a transaction, a
reduction from an average of 44 cents.  New Fees  The lender has said it will try to recoup some revenue by
imposing new fees for checking accounts and other services. Bank
of America Corp., ranked second by assets, has said some debit-
card users would be charged $5 a month. San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo is testing a $3 monthly fee, and similar charges
have been imposed by Regions Financial Corp. and SunTrust Banks
Inc.  Bank of America’s plan sparked objections from critics
including President  Barack Obama . Five House Democrats asked
Attorney General Eric Holder on Oct. 13 to investigate whether
banks and trade groups colluded on decisions to impose new fees.  U.S. Bancorp’s stock is up 7.3 percent in the past 12
months through yesterday, second only to Commerce Bancshares
Inc. in the KBW Bank Index. For the year to date, the shares are
down 9.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  