-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-19T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA  Summary. Business contacts in the Sixth District indicated that
economic activity continued to expand at a modest pace in
September and early October. Merchants noted that retail sales
decelerated slightly compared with the previous month, although
auto sales continued to advance at a solid pace. Tourism
activity remained robust throughout most of the District.
Homebuilders and Real Estate brokers reported that new and
existing home sales remained weak and home prices continued to
decline. Commercial developers indicated that construction
activity increased moderately compared with weak year-ago levels,
and brokers noted an increase in relocation activity.
Manufacturers reported a modest decline in production and new
orders. Weakness in loan demand persisted, according to banking
contacts as both consumers and businesses refrained from
borrowing. Hiring for permanent positions remained very subdued
across most sectors. Pricing pressures moderated somewhat as
input costs declined or leveled off.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism. District retailers reported that
sales decelerated slightly in September compared with the August
results. Reports were mixed among contacts with half noting that
sales were below plan and the remainder was evenly split between
those reporting sales at or above expectations. On a year-over-
over basis, sales were generally higher although traffic was
lower. Most contacts anticipated that holiday sales would be
similar to 2010 results. Auto dealers reported that sales
continued to increase.  Many retail contacts planned to raise prices, expecting to
retract the increases if customers pushed back. Merchants
continued to aggressively discount products to draw in traffic
and have found it difficult to end such practices because of
concern over losing customers.  Leisure and business travel remained strong in the District.
Occupancy rates continued to improve, and both airport and
cruise traffic were up. International visitors bolstered
activity, mainly in  Florida . Group bookings and theme park
attendance were up in most areas. Overall, hospitality contacts
expect a vibrant holiday season.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential brokers indicated that
sales softened somewhat in September compared with the previous
month and were flat to slightly up compared with very weak
levels from last year. Florida brokers reported that home sales
growth slowed. Outside of Florida, Southeast brokers noted a
modest pickup in sales growth. Cash purchases by investors,
second home buyers, international buyers, and retirees accounted
for much of the sales activity across most of the Southeast,
according to contacts. Existing home prices remained below year
earlier levels. District brokers anticipate only modest sales
growth over the next several months.  Reports from District builders indicated that new home sales and
construction activity were largely unchanged in September and
were slightly ahead of weak levels from a year ago. Home
builders continued to report that new  home prices  were largely
flat compared with the previous month and a year ago. Overall,
construction and new home sales growth are expected to be
similar to weak year-ago levels over the next several months.  Half of District commercial contractors polled reported that
construction activity in September exceeded the first half of
the year, while just under one-third signaled that activity was
weaker. Backlogs reportedly increased modestly as well. The
outlook among contractors remained weak as most anticipated
commercial development to be flat or down on a year-over-year
basis for the remainder of 2011 and into 2012. Commercial
brokers remarked that market dynamics continued to largely favor
tenants in the District, particularly in the retail sector.
However, some reports indicated that available  office space  had
declined, and with little new office development underway, this
could result in an increase in rental rates. An opposing view
shared by some contacts was that smaller blocks of office space
remained abundant on a sublease basis from tenants that have
downsized, but are still paying for unused space. Corporate
expansion and relocation interest has picked up in some markets,
which could have a positive impact on inventory and construction.  Manufacturing and Transportation. Overall, manufacturers
indicated a modest decline in new orders and production levels
in September. In addition, fewer contacts noted plans to raise
production in the near term. Energy exploration and extraction
firms cited investing more in capital goods, which is expected
to help equipment producers and suppliers. Auto manufacturers
reported that the impact from the disaster in  Japan  had waned
and that production is back to normal. Firms stated that they
were increasing investment in technology-based equipment as a
means to increase efficiency.  Contacts reported that volumes of shipments were above last
year’s levels, and that chemical and agricultural goods
shipments, in particular, were strong. Rail contacts noted that
shipments of energy and food-related products were driving
increases in activity.  Banking and Finance. Banking contacts indicated continued weak
loan demand. Loan growth remains a concern for banks in the
Sixth District. Lending levels continued to fall as new
opportunities remained highly elusive and very competitive.
Deposits increased as people and businesses added to their
savings. The majority of large firms continued to have ready
access to cash and lines of credit, while some small firms and
many new firms that sought credit continued to experience
difficulty. There were reports of non-bank entities, like
private equity firms and groups of wealthy individuals, becoming
increasingly interested in small business lending.  Employment and Prices. Employers continued to manage their labor
supply very tightly. Most contacts indicated that the outlook
for hiring remained restrained by modest expectations regarding
future sales. Several reports suggested that permanent employees
were primarily being used to maintain a firm’s core business,
while specific projects were being assigned to contractors and
temporary hires. Firms continued to seek efficiency gains
through investment in technology and other cost-saving
applications. Hiring contacts highlighted having difficulties
finding qualified candidates for specialized positions, in some
cases, because of a lack of geographic mobility for potential
hires. For lower wage positions, agencies reported numerous
employment opportunities; however, the positions were contingent
on passing skills tests and/or background checks, which many
applicants failed.  On balance, contacts reported that input prices had receded or
leveled off from earlier this year. Retailers continued to
heavily discount products. Businesses mentioned pursuing various
cost-cutting measures in order to support positive margins.
Manufacturers noted general success passing on earlier increases
in commodity prices. Any plans to increase wages were generally
limited to employees with a high degree of technical skills.  Natural Resources and Agriculture. District oil and gas
production declined in early September as energy producers
reduced offshore operations and vacated staff in the path of
Tropical Storm Lee in the  Gulf of Mexico . Industry contacts
indicated that plans to invest in increased production capacity
were proceeding. In particular, contacts reported that new
drilling technology had reduced costs and increased extraction
capabilities for both oil and gas.  Drought conditions persisted in much of  Georgia  and parts of
 Alabama . High livestock feed costs were pressuring poultry
producers but were being successfully passed on by cattle
producers. Corn prices remained elevated and cotton prices paid
to farmers increased modestly since the last report, although
cotton futures prices have declined somewhat further in recent
weeks. Agriculture contacts continued to report concerns over
labor shortages and production issues that they tied to recently
passed immigration laws in some states. 