-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-19T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Tenth District--  Kansas City .  TENTH DISTRICT -  KANSAS  CITY  The Tenth District economy improved slightly in late August and
September. Retailers and auto dealers reported stronger sales
and anticipated further gains in the months ahead. Sales were
weaker at restaurants and hotels, leading to pessimism in these
industries as the holiday season approaches. Manufacturing
activity rose at durable goods factories, and the high-tech
services industry experienced strong growth, while
transportation activity was flat. Residential and commercial
real estate and construction contacts continued to report weak
conditions. Bank deposits continued to increase, while loan
demand and loan quality deteriorated slightly. Crop conditions
varied across the District, but farm income expectations
remained strong. The energy sector expanded further with
production increasing for oil, natural gas and coal. As input
prices continued to increase, more contacts expected to raise
prices in the coming months. But wage pressures eased from
already low levels.  Consumer Spending . In late August and September, consumer
spending increased in the retail and auto sectors but declined
slightly in the restaurant and travel sectors. District
retailers reported strong sales and expected additional
increases during the next three months. Luxury goods, such as
jewelry and custom-upholstered furniture, sold particularly well.
One contact noted an uptick in sales among both high-end and
low-end customers, but reported that those in the middle were
holding back. Auto sales were also higher than expected despite
several contacts describing low  consumer confidence  due to
economic and political uncertainty. Many auto dealers reported
difficulty finding qualified sales people and technicians.
Restaurant sales were lower than anticipated but were expected
to remain steady over the next three months. Despite slightly
lower average room rates, hotel occupancy decreased, and
District hotel owners expected further declines in the coming
months.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing and
high-tech service activity continued to grow during the survey
period, while transportation activity was flat. Manufacturing
activity increased at durable goods factories, particularly
firms producing aircraft and computer equipment. These increases
helped to offset a slight decline in activity at nondurable
goods plants. Shipment and new order volumes edged up during the
survey period, and firms expected both to improve over the
coming months. With an overall increase in activity, firms hired
additional workers and slightly increased employee hours.
Manufacturers continued to anticipate higher  capital spending 
over the next six months, but these expectations were dampened
somewhat compared to the previous survey. The high-tech industry
reported steady growth in sales, and firms expected activity to
be strong over the next three months. Transportation activity
was flat during the survey period, and contacts reported
continued difficulty finding skilled technicians and drivers.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential and commercial real
estate activity remained weak during late August and September.
Residential sales were flat during the survey period, and  home
prices  were down. Real estate contacts expected sales to be much
slower in the coming months, but many attributed this to the
seasonal slowdown. Residential mortgage lenders continued to
report an increase in refinancing activity due to low  mortgage
rates , but very little new loan activity. Construction supply
firms saw sales fall during the survey period, and they expected
upcoming sales to be weak due to the seasonal slowdown of the
 construction industry . Housing starts were flat, and builders
did not foresee activity increasing in the next three months.
Multi-family building projects were the only area of reported
growth by commercial construction contacts. Commercial real
estate sales and prices continued to decline, and vacancy rates
were flat. District contacts expected commercial prices and
rents to decline further in the coming months. Developers
reported no change in their access to credit.  Banking. In the recent survey period, bankers reported increased
deposits, but somewhat weaker loan demand and a slight
deterioration in loan quality. Overall loan demand decreased
slightly as demand for consumer installment loans declined,
while demand for commercial and industrial loans, commercial
real estate loans, and residential real estate loans was
marginally weaker. Credit standards remained largely unchanged
in all major loan categories, and deposits increased for the
sixth straight survey. Bankers reported a minor deterioration in
loan quality compared to a year ago but anticipated some
improvement in the outlook for loan quality over the next six
months.  Agriculture. Agricultural conditions continued to vary across
the District. Northern portions of the District, which received
ample rain, expected bumper crops, while crops in the southern
portions of the District continued to suffer under drought
conditions. Most of the corn and soybean crops in  Nebraska  were
rated in good or better condition as harvest began, while Kansas
expected yields well below average due to drought. Winter wheat
planting was delayed in some areas of Oklahoma as farmers waited
for rain, but planting was on schedule in Kansas and Nebraska.
Despite recent downturns in crop prices, farm income
expectations remained strong. Robust export demand supported
livestock prices, but high feed costs trimmed profit margins.
Farm loan demand remained weak as capital spending slowed
further and some producers paid cash for higher input costs.
District contacts indicated that prices of farmland sold at
auction continued to post record highs.  Energy. Energy activity continued to expand in late August and
September, and activity was expected to grow further over the
next three months. The number of active drilling rigs for both
oil and natural gas increased in the District.  Oklahoma  and
 Wyoming  showed the largest growth in rig counts, which helped to
offset slight decreases in  New Mexico  and Kansas. Contacts
continued to report that future drilling activity was being
constrained by a lack of qualified labor and the availability of
equipment and supplies. Contacts reported having a difficult
time attracting experienced skilled workers due to increased
competition among firms. The price of crude oil was expected to
decrease over the next three months, but natural  gas prices  were
expected to increase as winter demand increases. Coal production
increased slightly during the survey period.  Wages and Prices. District contacts reported higher prices for
both inputs and finished goods, but wage pressures eased from
already low levels. More manufacturers reported increases in raw
material prices and finished goods prices in September, and most
expected further increases over the next six months. Input
prices also rose for building materials, especially roofing
materials. Prices held steady at retail stores but were expected
to increase in the coming months. Restaurant contacts also
anticipated raising menu prices as food prices continued to
climb. Contacts from several industries reported difficulties
finding qualified workers for skilled positions, but fewer firms
than in recent surveys reported increasing wages in response.
Across all industries, most contacts expected wage increases to
remain stable over the next three months. 