-- 
U.S. September Consumer Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-10-19T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-september-consumer-price-index-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the Sept.
consumer prices from the Labor Department.  Consumer Price Index - September 2011  The Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U)
increased 0.3 percent in September on a seasonally adjusted
basis, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today.
Over the last 12 months, the all items index increased 3.9
percent before seasonal adjustment.  Increases in energy and food indexes were the main cause of
the seasonally adjusted all items increase. The gasoline index
continued to rise, and indexes for electricity and natural gas
increased as well. Broad increases in food indexes also
continued in September, with the food at home index rising 0.6
percent for the third month in a row and no major grocery
store food group indexes declining.  The index for all items less food and energy increased 0.1
percent in September, its smallest increase since March. The
index for apparel declined in September after a series of
sharp increases, and the indexes for used cars and recreation
turned down as well. The indexes for new vehicles and
household furnishings and operations were both flat. The
shelter index rose, but posted its smallest increase since
April, while the indexes for medical care, airline fares, and
tobacco all increased.  The 12-month change in the all items index, which was 3.8
percent in August, edged up to 3.9 percent in September. The
12-month change for all items less food and energy remained at
2.0 percent for the second straight month. The energy index
has risen 19.3 percent over the last year, while the food
index has increased 4.7 percent.  Consumer Price Index  Data for September 2011  Food  The food index, which rose 0.5 percent in August, increased
0.4 percent in September. The index for food at home repeated
its July and August increase of 0.6 percent. The index for
nonalcoholic beverages was unchanged, while the remaining
major grocery store food groups all posted increases. The
dairy and related products index rose the most, increasing 1.2
percent, followed by 0.9 percent increases in both the cereals
and bakery products index and the fruits and vegetables index.
Within the latter group, the indexes for apples and tomatoes
both posted significant increases. The index for meats,
poultry, fish, and eggs rose 0.4 percent as the index for eggs
rose sharply, and the index for other food at home rose 0.6
percent. The food at home index has now risen 6.3 percent over
the past 12 months with the dairy index up 10.2 percent over
that period. After rising 0.4 percent in August, the index for
food away from home increased 0.2 percent in September and has
risen 2.6 percent over the last 12 months.  Energy  The energy index rose 2.0 percent in September after a 1.2
percent increase in August. The gasoline index, which was up
1.9 percent in August, rose 2.9 percent in September. (Before
seasonal adjustment, gasoline prices fell 0.7 percent in
September.) Over the past 12 months, the gasoline index has
increased 33.3 percent. The household energy index also rose
in September, advancing 0.7 percent after a 0.4 percent
increase in August. The electricity index advanced 0.7 percent
while index for natural gas rose 0.8 percent; the fuel oil
index declined 0.7 percent. Over the past year, the household
energy index has increased 3.7 percent. The electricity index
has risen 2.7 percent and the index for natural gas has
increased 0.2 percent, while the fuel oil index has risen
sharply, increasing 33.4 percent.  All items less food and energy  The index for all items less food and energy increased 0.1
percent in September, a deceleration from recent months.
Several factors contributed to the smaller increase in
September. The apparel index, which had risen over one percent
for four months in a row, declined 1.1 percent in September.
The index for used cars and trucks also turned down, falling
0.6 percent after a long series of increases, and the
recreation index declined 0.1 percent after rising in August.
The shelter index decelerated, increasing 0.1 percent in
September following a 0.3 percent increase in July and a 0.2
percent increase in August. The rent index increased 0.2
percent while the index for owners' equivalent rent increased
0.1 percent and the lodging away from home index declined 0.7
percent. The index for household furnishings and operations,
which rose 0.3 percent in August, was unchanged in September,
and the index for new vehicles was unchanged for the third
month in a row. In contrast the medical care index continued
to increase, rising 0.2 percent for the fifth month in a row.
The indexes for airline fares, tobacco, and personal care all
increased as well.  After increasing steadily through most of the year, the 12-
month change in the index for all items less food and energy
remained at 2.0 percent for the second month in a row. The
shelter index has increased 1.7 percent over the last 12
months. The index for medical care has risen 2.8 percent while
the apparel index has increased 3.5 percent. The new vehicles
index has increased 3.6 percent and the index for used cars
and trucks has increased 5.1 percent.  Not seasonally adjusted CPI measures  The Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U)
increased 3.9 percent over the last 12 months to an index
level of 226.889 (1982-84=100). For the month, the index
increased 0.2 percent prior to seasonal adjustment.  The Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical
Workers (CPI-W) increased 4.4 percent over the last 12 months
to an index level of 223.688 (1982-84=100). For the month, the
index increased 0.2 percent prior to seasonal adjustment.  The Chained Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (C-
CPI-U) increased 3.7 percent over the last 12 months. For the
month, the index increased 0.1 percent on a not seasonally
adjusted basis. Please note that the indexes for the post-2009
period are subject to revision.  The Consumer Price Index for October 2011 is scheduled to be
released on Wednesday, November 16, 2011, at 8:30 a.m. (EST).  --------------------------------------------------------------
Redesigning the Consumer Price Index (CPI) News Release Tables  In August 2009, the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS)
restructured the text of the CPI news release to focus on the
price movements of three broad expenditure categories; namely
Food, Energy, and All items less food and energy. Table A
within the CPI news release text was also updated in August
2009 to reflect this new structure. Before August 2009, the
text of the CPI news release had focused on eight CPI 'major
groups' (Food and beverages; Housing; Apparel; Transportation;
Medical care; Recreation; Education and communication; and
Other goods and services).  While the text of the CPI news release was restructured in
2009, seven additional CPI news release tables continued to be
published using the eight major groups. BLS is redesigning
these news release tables, to reflect the focus on Food,
Energy, and All items less food and energy. Within these three
broad categories, CPI item series will be further divided into
commodities and services.  A mock-up of the new CPI news release tables can be found at
 http://beta.bls.gov/cpi/redesigned_cpi_tables/cpiprmockup.htm .
Comments or questions about these new tables can be forwarded
to  cpi_info@bls.gov . The public comment period runs through
October 31, 2011  Beyond the redesign in the structure of the CPI news release
tables, several other improvements to these tables have been
made:  The new Table 1 gives a summary of the index series which
typically contribute to changes in the Consumer Price Index
for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U).  The new Table 2 will show the full publication stub using the
new structure for the CPI-U, including 11 new items series
that were created to augment the redesign in the publication
structure.  Table 3 will show aggregate item series (e.g., Transportation)
that do not fall under the Food, Energy, and All items less
food and energy structure.  Table 4 will show the All items indexes at the local,
regional, and city-size class levels. Table 5 will show the
Chained Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (C-CPI-
U), and presents a history of annual percentage changes in the
C-CPI-U compared to the CPI-U.  Table 6 will focus on 1-month seasonally adjusted changes in
the CPI-U, while table 7 will focus on 12-month not seasonally
adjusted changes. Tables 6 and 7 will present three additional
pieces of data to help users better interpret index changes.
First, these tables will show the effect each item has on the
price change for All items. For example, if the effect of food
is 0.4, and the index for All items increased 1.2 percent, it
can be said that increases in food prices accounted for 0.4 /
1.2, or 33.3 percent, of the increase in overall prices for
that period. Said another way, had food prices been unchanged,
the All items index only would have increased 0.8 percent (or
1.2 percent for All items, minus the 0.4 effect for Food).
Effects can be negative as well. For example, if the effect of
food was a negative 0.1, and the All items index rose 0.5
percent, the All items index actually would have been 0.1
percent higher (or 0.6 percent) had food prices been
unchanged.  Second, standard errors for percent changes will be shown on
tables 6 and 7. Confidence intervals for statistics can be
created using standard errors; e.g., roughly 95% confidence
intervals can be constructed using two standard errors. For
example, if an item increased 3.7 percent, and its standard
error was 0.6 percent, the 95% confidence interval for that
price change can be said to be 3.7 percent plus or minus two
standard errors, or 3.7 percent plus or minus 1.2 percent.  Each item series in tables 6 and 7 will show the last time
that item had a price change as large (or as small) as the
percent change published that period. For example, if bananas
rose 3.7 percent, and that was its largest increase since
November 2007, that would be noted in the new tables.  In addition, most of the existing tables show the relative
importance, or weight, of each item category as of the
previous December. The relative importance columns in the new
tables will be improved in that they will be updated monthly
to reflect the change in relative prices over time.  Finally, there will no longer be any news release tables that
focus on the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and
Clerical Workers (CPI-W). That said, the CPI-W All items index
level and percent changes will still be noted in the text of
the news release.  Brief Explanation of the CPI  The Consumer Price Index (CPI) is a measure of the average
change in prices over time of goods and services purchased by
households.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics publishes CPIs for
two population groups: (1) the CPI for Urban Wage Earners and
Clerical Workers (CPI-W), which covers households of wage
earners and clerical workers that comprise approximately 32
percent of the total population and (2) the CPI for All Urban
Consumers (CPI-U) and the Chained CPI for All Urban Consumers
(C-CPI-U), which cover approximately 87 percent of the total
population and include in addition to wage earners and
clerical worker households, groups such as professional,
managerial, and technical workers, the self-employed, short-
term workers, the unemployed, and retirees and others not in
the labor force.  The CPIs are based on prices of food, clothing, shelter, and
fuels, transportation fares, charges for doctors' and
dentists' services, drugs, and other goods and services that
people buy for day-to-day living.  Prices are collected each
month in 87 urban areas across the country from about 4,000
housing units and approximately 26,000 retail establishments-
department stores, supermarkets, hospitals, filling stations,
and other types of stores and service establishments.  All
taxes directly associated with the purchase and use of items
are included in the index.  Prices of fuels and a few other
items are obtained every month in all 87 locations.  Prices of
most other commodities and services are collected every month
in the three largest geographic areas and every other month in
other areas. Prices of most goods and services are obtained by
personal visits or telephone calls of the Bureau's trained
representatives.  In calculating the index, price changes for the various items
in each location are averaged together with weights, which
represent their importance in the spending of the appropriate
population group. Local data are then combined to obtain a
U.S. city average.  For the CPI-U and CPI-W separate indexes
are also published by size of city, by region of the country,
for cross-classifications of regions and population-size
classes, and for 27 local areas.  Area indexes do not measure
differences in the level of prices among cities; they only
measure the average change in prices for each area since the
base period.  For the C-CPI-U data are issued only at the
national level. It is important to note that the CPI-U and CPI-
W are considered final when released, but the C-CPI-U is
issued in preliminary form and subject to two annual
revisions.  The index measures price change from a designed reference
date.  For the CPI-U and the CPI-W the reference base is 1982-
84 equals 100. The reference base for the C-CPI-U is December
1999 equals 100.  An increase of 16.5 percent from the
reference base, for example, is shown as 116.500.  This change
can also be expressed in dollars as follows:  the price of a
base period market basket of goods and services in the CPI has
risen from $10 in 1982-84 to $11.65.  Calculating Index Changes  Movements of the indexes from one month to another are usually
expressed as percent changes rather than changes in index
points, because index point changes are affected by the level
of the index in relation to its base period while percent
changes are not.  The example below illustrates the
computation of index point and percent changes.  Percent changes for 3-month and 6-month periods are expressed
as annual rates and are computed according to the standard
formula for compound growth rates.  These data indicate what
the percent change would be if the current rate were
maintained for a 12-month period.  Index Point Change  CPI  202.416
Less previous index  201.8
Equals index point change    0.616  Percent Change  Index point difference    0.616
Divided by the previous index   201.8
Equals      0.003
Results multiplied by one hundred   0.003x100
Equals percent change     0.3  Regions Defined  The states in the four regions shown in Tables 3 and 6 are
listed below.  The Northeast-- Connecticut , Maine,  Massachusetts , New
Hampshire,  New York ,  New Jersey ,  Pennsylvania , Rhode Island,
and  Vermont . The Midwest-- Illinois , Indiana, Iowa, Kansas,
 Michigan , Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota,  Ohio ,
 South Dakota , and Wisconsin. The South--Alabama, Arkansas,
Delaware,  Florida , Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland,
Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina,
Tennessee,  Texas ,  Virginia , West Virginia, and the  District of
Columbia . The West--Alaska, Arizona,  California , Colorado,
Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah,
Washington, and Wyoming.  A Note on Seasonally Adjusted and Unadjusted Data  Because price data are used for different purposes by
different groups, the Bureau of Labor Statistics publishes
seasonally adjusted as well as unadjusted changes each month.  For analyzing general price trends in the economy, seasonally
adjusted changes are usually preferred since they eliminate
the effect of changes that normally occur at the same time and
in about the same magnitude every year--such as price
movements resulting from changing climatic conditions,
production cycles, model changeovers, holidays, and sales.  The unadjusted data are of primary interest to consumers
concerned about the prices they actually pay.  Unadjusted data
also are used extensively for escalation purposes.  Many
collective bargaining contract agreements and pension plans,
for example, tie compensation changes to the Consumer Price
Index before adjustment for seasonal variation.  Seasonal factors used in computing the seasonally adjusted
indexes are derived by the X-12-ARIMA Seasonal Adjustment
Method.  Seasonally adjusted indexes and seasonal factors are
computed annually.  Each year, the last 5 years of seasonally
adjusted data are revised.  Data from January 2006 through
December 2010 were replaced in January 2011.  Exceptions to
the usual revision schedule were: the updated seasonal data at
the end of 1977 replaced data from 1967 through 1977; and, in
January 2002, dependently seasonally adjusted series were
revised for January 1987-December 2001 as a result of a change
in the aggregation weights for dependently adjusted series.
For further information, please see "Aggregation of
Dependently Adjusted Seasonally Adjusted Series," in the
October 2001 issue of the CPI Detailed Report.  Effective with the publication of data from January 2006
through December 2010 in January 2011, the Video and audio
series and the  Information technology , hardware and services
series were changed from independently adjusted to dependently
adjusted.  This resulted in an increase in the number of
seasonal components used in deriving seasonal movement of the
All items and 54 other lower level aggregations, from 73 for
the publication of January 1998 through December 2005 data to
82 for the publication of seasonally adjusted data for January
2006 and later.  Each year the seasonal status of every series
is reevaluated based upon certain statistical criteria. If any
of the 82 components change their seasonal adjustment status
from seasonally adjusted to not seasonally adjusted, not
seasonally adjusted data will be used in the aggregation of
the dependent series for the last 5 years, but the seasonally
adjusted indexes before that period will not be changed.
Note: 37 of the 82 components are not seasonally adjusted for
2011.  Seasonally adjusted data, including the all items index
levels, are subject to revision for up to five years after
their original release. For this reason, BLS advises against
the use of these data in escalation agreements.  Effective with the calculation of the seasonal factors for
1990, the Bureau of Labor Statistics has used an enhanced
seasonal adjustment procedure called Intervention Analysis
Seasonal Adjustment for some CPI series.  Intervention
Analysis Seasonal Adjustment allows for better estimates of
seasonally adjusted data.  Extreme values and/or sharp
movements which might distort the seasonal pattern are
estimated and removed from the data prior to calculation of
seasonal factors. Beginning with the calculation of seasonal
factors for 1996, X-12-ARIMA software was used for
Intervention Analysis Seasonal Adjustment.  For the seasonal factors introduced in January 2011, BLS
adjusted 29 series using Intervention Analysis Seasonal
Adjustment, including selected food and beverage items, motor
fuels, electricity and vehicles.  For example, this procedure
was used for the Motor fuel series to offset the effects of
events such as damage to oil refineries from Hurricane
Katrina.  For a complete list of Intervention Analysis Seasonal
Adjustment series and explanations, please refer to the
article "Intervention Analysis Seasonal Adjustment", located
on our website at  http://www.bls.gov/cpi/cpisapage.htm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in  Washington  
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  