-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-19T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  ELEVENTH DISTRICT--DALLAS  The Eleventh District economy continued to expand at a modest
pace since the last report. Manufacturing activity was mixed.
Service sector activity held mostly steady, although retailers
noted a recent pick-up in sales. There were some signs of
improvement in the housing sector, and apartment demand remained
brisk. Office and industrial leasing activity continued to
increase, but commercial real estate investment activity fell.
Loan demand was mostly unchanged, according to financial
contacts. The energy sector continued to expand at a strong pace,
while agricultural conditions deteriorated further. Many
responding firms across industries noted their outlooks were
less optimistic, reflecting uncertainty about the U.S. and
global economies.  Prices  Price pressures eased slightly since the last report. Most firms
said input prices were unchanged or down, although retailers
noted some increases in apparel and jewelry prices. Raw
materials prices were flat or down. The exception was food
producers who noted increased prices for some inputs. Contacts
in the agricultural sector said commodity prices moved down
since the last report.  The price of WTI held between $80 and $90 per barrel for most of
the survey period, but slipped under $80 by early October. As
the driving season ended, the price of on-highway diesel and
gasoline fell by 11 and 16 cents per gallon, respectively.  Labor Market  Employment levels held steady at most responding firms, although
there were several reports of slight hiring activity. Staffing
firms continued to note steady demand at high levels. Most
primary metals manufacturers reported increases in payrolls and
some continue to look for additional workers. Scattered reports
of hiring came from contacts in the legal, auto sales, airline
and transportation manufacturing industries. Contacts in food
manufacturing and financial services said hiring activity had
abated. Wage pressures remained minimal, although upward
pressure was noted by select retail, lumber and transportation
manufacturing firms.  Manufacturing  Reports were mixed among construction-related firms, but most
contacts described demand as steady during the reporting period.
Several responding firms said ongoing public projects were
buoying activity. Fabricated metals firms noted a slight pickup
in demand and two lumber producers noted a pickup believed to be
due to home improvement projects and demand from homebuilders.
Construction-related outlooks were mostly unchanged, with a slow
recovery expected.  Respondents in high-tech manufacturing said that sales growth
remained positive but continued to slow and new orders declined.
Demand weakened across consumer and business markets and
throughout most regions of the world. Producers of consumer
electronics are reportedly very cautious about demand over the
holidays and into the first half of next year, and have reduced
their orders for semiconductors. Because of the decline in new
orders, respondents in the high-tech sector expect sales to
weaken over the next six months.  Reports from paper manufacturers were mixed. Box producers noted
orders from the food and beverage industry had fallen, but
demand from retailers had picked up. One paper firm said strong
demand was leading to lower inventories. Outlooks were mostly
downbeat, due to fluctuations in the stock market and
speculation about another recession. Non-defense transportation
manufacturers said demand held steady at pretty good levels, and
is up significantly from a year ago. Responding firms were
cautiously optimistic in their outlooks, noting troubles at the
national level had not impacted them yet. Food producers said
sales were flat since the last report, and outlooks were
positive, although firms were not hiring because of concerns
about current U.S. economic conditions.  Petrochemical demand weakened in September. Ethylene spot prices
fell despite two large plants shutting down. Domestic demand for
polyethylene is weak, and the strong dollar has cut off exports
to  Asia  and  Europe . Exports to Latin America also weakened as
Asian producers offered prices low enough to displace U.S.
exports. Refiners said demand for refined products fell slightly
as summer ended. Margins remain strong, but have narrowed.  Retail Sales  Retail sales growth slowed over most of the reporting period,
but picked up in the final weeks of September. A long hot summer
led to delayed fall clothing purchases, however contacts said
cooler weather recently spurred seasonal sales. The higher end
of the market continues to fare better than lower price point
offerings. Eleventh District growth trended roughly in line with
the nation, according to one large retailer. Expectations are
for modest growth this holiday season.  Automobile sales were steady with some slowdown in traffic
attributed to economic concerns caused by pessimistic headlines.
Despite concerns, customers continue to buy vehicles.
Inventories are somewhat light, but at appropriate levels for
the most part. Used car supply remains constrained resulting in
high prices. Expectations are for a continued moderate pace of
sales growth.  Services  Overall demand for staffing services continued to hold steady at
high levels. One contact noted a slight pull back that was
characterized as “fear driven.” Direct hires continue to outpace
temporary placements. Outlooks were mixed, with half of the
respondents more cautious and half more positive. Even contacts
with positive outlooks expressed concern about the upcoming
election cycle and regulatory uncertainty. Accounting firms said
demand for accounting services remained steady. Outlooks were
unchanged, but one contact noted the next few months will be
telling, as customers appear to be waiting for greater clarity
about the economy and possible regulations. Demand for legal
services remained unchanged.  Most transportation services firms said demand held steady or
rose, but many firms’ outlooks weakened further since the last
report. Intermodal cargo volumes were flat, and contacts say
outlooks are negative for 2012. Railroad firms said volumes
increased during the reporting period, but that the numbers were
somewhat artificially inflated due to capacity coming back
online after the flooding in the northern U.S. Container volumes
declined modestly over the past three months, but picked up in
August. Small parcel shipments held steady in August, but
shipping firms have lowered expectations of growth this year.
Airline traffic was reportedly holding up well and has been flat
to slightly improved over the last six weeks in terms of
passenger volume. Demand for travel to  Latin America  remains
strong, and travel to  Japan  is weak. Airline industry outlooks
are positive, but more uncertain.  Construction and Real Estate  Contacts in the housing sector noted some improvement, although
most characterize conditions as choppy. Inventories of existing
homes declined since the last report, and new home inventories
remain lean. Most contacts say sales are better, although many
note the strict lending environment, along with nervousness
about the path of the  U.S. economy , is keeping many would-be
buyers on the sidelines.  Apartment demand continued to rise since the last report, and
contacts are positive in their outlooks. While construction has
increased, demand has kept up, and respondents believe it will
be a year or two before much of the new product is available.
Apartment rents continued to increase.  Commercial real estate contacts said demand for  office space 
remained strong overall during the reporting period, but that in
recent weeks clients have deferred decisions to expand. Demand
for industrial space was being spurred by lease renewals rather
than the expansion by existing tenants. Real estate investment
activity declined in August amid uncertainty.  Financial Services  Financial firms reported relatively flat loan demand overall.
National banks noted modest increases in loan demand, although
contacts were uncertain the gains would continue. Regional banks
said loan demand was flat, and loan pricing remained competitive.
Still, outstanding loan quality continued to hold up, according
to contacts. The improvement in lending conditions noted in the
last report has stalled, due to both the modest level of demand
and more caution in supplying loans to anyone but the most
creditworthy of borrowers.  Energy  Drilling activity remains strong. Contacts in the energy sector
said oil field activity is at high levels and expanding. The
 Texas  rig count rose by 11 during the reporting period. Despite
the strength, many noted concern about the recent dip in the
price of oil and U.S. and global economic weakness.  Agriculture  Drought in the Eleventh District remained severe during the
reporting period, particularly in Texas where more than 85
percent of the state is in exceptional drought. Already poor
grazing and stock water conditions deteriorated further, forcing
many ranchers to sell off part or all of their herds. The
drought caused low yields and record-high abandonment rates for
some crops, including cotton. Export demand for beef continued
to grow while the volume of exports for most crops was lower
than six weeks ago. There was growing concern about continued
drought conditions and the negative impact of low soil moisture
on 2012 crop production. 