-- 
U.S. Bancorp Chief ‘Frustrated’ That Regulator Vacancies Slowing Recovery

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-10-19T19:05:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-bancorp-chief-frustrated-that-regulator-vacancies-slowing-recovery.html
U.S. Bancorp Chief Executive Officer
 Richard Davis  said he’s “frustrated” that Congress hasn’t
confirmed regulators to lead agencies in charge of new banking
rules because the vacancies are hindering his industry.  “I’d like to have a better sense of where the endpoint is
so we can all start marching toward that,” Davis, head of the
nation’s fifth-largest commercial bank, said today during a
conference call with analysts. Davis cited jobs at the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency and the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  “Until the comptroller, or the head of the FDIC, are
finally confirmed, and until the CFPB is finally appointed, you
don’t get the same kind of definitive answers, and you don’t get
the same kind of definitive progress,” said Davis, whose bank
is based in  Minneapolis .  Some of the appointments are stalled in Congress, where
Republicans are trying to head off tighter bank regulation and
have opposed creation of the consumer bureau. Davis, 53, is
known for having a better relationship with regulators than most
bankers, according to  Nancy Bush , an analyst and senior
contributing editor at SNL Financial. He told bankers in June
not to “overreact” to the CFPB’s creation, urging them to
embrace the agency and work with whomever is appointed.  Undefined Rules  “This thing has been endless -- it has ground on now for
the best part of the past two years,” Bush said in a telephone
interview after the conference call. “And as we go into the
political atmosphere of 2012 -- and I guess we’re already there
-- it just gets worse. Nobody is helped by a situation of
warfare between the banking industry and the American public,
and the regulators could help that.”  Davis said that banks are struggling with uncertainty as
they await changes mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, including
tougher capital rules and the creation of the CFPB. Eighty
percent of the country’s financial overhaul legislation is “yet
to be defined,” and rules that dictate capital buffers for
systemically important firms are unclear, he said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
pressed Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in a June
public forum on whether regulators have gone too far in reining
in the U.S. banking system and are slowing economic growth.  Dimon and Bernanke  “I have a great fear someone’s going to try to write a
book in 20 years, and the book is going to talk about all the
things that we did in the middle of the crisis to actually slow
down recovery,” Dimon told the Fed chairman during a conference
of bankers in Atlanta.  U.S. Bancorp reported today that net income climbed 40
percent in the third quarter to a record $1.27 billion as
revenue and lending expanded and fewer borrowers fell behind on
payments.  “Nothing’s getting more clear or progressing very fast,”
Davis said. “But our ability to now understand that it’s not
going to happen fast, and our willingness to accept the fact
that we have to make up some of the answers until there’s a
final one, is probably much higher.”  The Senate Banking Committee on Oct. 6 approved President
 Barack Obama ’s nomination of  Richard Cordray , a former attorney
general of  Ohio , to lead the CFPB. Forty-four Senate Republicans
have vowed to oppose any nominee without changes to the consumer
agency’s structure and funding.  The consumer bureau, which officially began work on July
21, won’t assume full supervisory powers over non-bank financial
firms until a director is in place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  