-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-19T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  Eighth District - St. Louis  Summary  Reports from contacts in the Eighth District have been mixed
since our previous survey. Manufacturing activity has continued
to increase, while reports of activity in the services sector
have been mixed. Residential real estate market activity has
continued to decline, while commercial real estate market
conditions varied across the District. Lending at a sample of
small and mid-sized District banks declined slightly during the
three-month period from mid-June to mid-September.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Manufacturing activity has continued to increase since our
previous report. Several manufacturers reported plans to open
plants and expand operations in the near future, while a smaller
number of contacts reported plans to close plants or reduce
operations. Firms in the automobile, railroad rolling stock,
ceramic product, automobile parts, sanitary paper product, and
appliance manufacturing industries reported plans to expand
operations and hire new workers. In contrast, firms in the
ammunition, primary metal, and wood manufacturing industries
announced plans to lay off employees.  Reports of activity in the District’s services sector have been
mixed since our previous survey. Firms in business support
services, casinos, leisure, and health services industries
announced plans to expand operations and hire new workers. In
contrast, contacts in social services, media monitoring services,
telecommunications, and education services industries announced
plans to decrease operations in the District and lay off
employees. General retailers noted that sales have been flat to
slightly down and they anticipate that consumers will continue
to cut back on their purchases through the end of the year. Auto
dealers noted that sales increased during the reporting period
but they anticipate that sales for the remainder of the year
will be soft.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales continued to decline throughout most of the Eighth
District. Compared with the same period in 2010, August 2011
year-to-date home sales were down 6 percent in  Memphis , 9
percent in St. Louis, 10 percent in Louisville, and 12 percent
in  Little Rock . Residential construction also continued to
decrease throughout the District. August 2011 year-to-date
single family housing permits decreased in the majority of the
District metro areas compared with the same period in 2010.
Permits decreased 12 percent in Memphis, 19 percent in
Louisville, and 24 percent in Little Rock and St. Louis.  Reports of commercial construction activity were mixed
throughout the District. Contacts in northeast  Arkansas  reported
that Jonesboro and Paragould are experiencing an increase in
commercial construction activity. In contrast, contacts in St.
Louis reported that commercial construction activity is weak and
is expected to remain slow for the remainder of the year.
Reports of industrial construction activity also varied across
the District. Contacts in west  Tennessee  reported that various
medical-related establishments have either completed
construction projects or announced new ones. In contrast,
contacts in St. Louis and Louisville reported that speculative
industrial construction activity is expected to remain slow.  Banking and Finance  Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized
District banks decreased 0.8 percent in the three-month period
from mid-June to mid-September. Real estate lending, which
accounts for 73.7 percent of total loans, decreased 1.5 percent.
Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 15.7 percent of
total loans, decreased 0.5 percent. Loans to individuals,
accounting for 4.9 percent of loans, increased 2.1 percent. All
other loans increased 6.3 percent and accounted for 5.7 percent
of total loans. Over this period, total deposits increased 0.1
percent.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  The rates of completion for the cotton, soybean, and rice
harvests in the District states were behind their 5-year average.
In contrast, the corn harvest was at least 5 percent ahead of
schedule in the majority of the District’s states. The fraction
of corn, soybean and sorghum crops rated in fair or better
condition declined by at least one percent in most states since
the previous report. The fraction of pastures in fair or better
condition increased or remained unchanged in most states, except
Illinois and  Missouri . The District’s monthly coal production
for August 2011 was 0.3 percent lower compared with August 2010;
however, the District’s year-to-date coal production for August
2011 was 3.5 percent higher than the same period in 2010. 