-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-19T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND  Overview. Business conditions in the Fifth District were either
weak or weakening in most sectors since our last report.
Manufacturing activity contracted moderately in September, after
pulling back markedly in August. Retail sales also softened. In
addition, activity at non-retail services firms began to decline.
Both residential and commercial real estate activity remained
near the weak levels seen in recent months. However, in banking,
a moderate improvement in commercial lending offset weakness in
mortgage lending. Tourism remained strong overall. District
labor markets had undertones of weakness, with temp services
reporting problems finding qualified workers. Price pressures
moderated since our last assessment.  Manufacturing. District manufacturing activity continued to
contract in September. A primary metals producer reported a
dramatic falloff in their domestic orders, noting that a
domestic retail chain had recently cancelled a large order. The
firm expects to cut production unless orders improve immediately.
Similarly, several textile and apparel manufacturers indicated
that customers had reduced their purchases. Moreover, a number
of furniture producers cited sluggish  consumer spending , but
added that corporate spending had improved somewhat since our
last report. In contrast, an automotive parts maker said that
underlying business was very strong. Also, a metal fabricator
cited examples of improving orders, with autos and aerospace
among his strongest customers. Our latest manufacturing survey
showed that raw material prices grew at a considerably slower
pace, while prices for finished goods changed little since our
last report.  Port activity has advanced at a slower-than-expected pace in
recent months. Several analysts stated that exports continued to
outpace imports, but characterized both as somewhat soft during
the current peak season. An official noted that major retailers
were not anxious to build inventory going into the big holiday
season and were waiting for an improvement in consumer spending
before increasing their import orders. Another port official
reported that ocean carriers had also become less optimistic
about cargo shipments over the remainder of the year. Auto
exports were flat in recent months, according to one analyst,
but auto imports were starting to increase as dealers began
stocking for the new model year. Exports of coal and other
commodities continued to do exceptionally well.  Retail. Retail sales generally weakened since our last report,
although several merchants reported a pickup in the last week of
September. Most contacts indicated that back-to-school sales
were satisfactory, but for many, somewhat below expectations; a
 Virginia  retailer commented that sales were “good, though not
fantastic.” Shopper traffic waned in early September but
returned later in the month. A retail contact in central
Virginia reported that credit-card use increased toward the end
of the back-to-school season, indicating shoppers were more
confident, but remarked, if consumers accumulate sizeable levels
of debt now, they might spend less during the holiday season. An
executive at a Virginia hardware chain also reported strong
sales through September, with little difficulty passing through
price increases. Looking ahead to holiday sales, a Maryland
department store manager was cautiously optimistic and she
expected “practical gift-giving” this year. Apprehension about
the strength of holiday sales has constrained seasonal hiring
for some retailers. Small merchants in some areas reported
difficulty obtaining financing for inventory. Big-ticket sales
continued to be soft overall, but automobile sales were steady
since our last report, according to several contacts. A  West
Virginia  auto dealer said that his sales were close to 2010
levels, while a dealer near the D.C. metro area reported a
stronger month, led by imports. Average retail wages and prices
increased moderately, according to our contacts.  Services. Non-retail services providers reported slower activity.
A number of services providers complained about various new
government regulations and regulatory burdens on their
businesses. Contacts on the southern Delmarva Peninsula
expressed anxiety that new EPA regulations for the Chesapeake
Bay could result in local chicken farmers losing contracts to
farmers further inland, resulting in trickle-down business
closures and job losses. Several executives commented that they
were refraining from expansion and hiring and that they were
holding cash because of uncertainty about the economy. An
executive from a West Virginia engineering firm commented, “We
are now in a wait-and-see mode.” According to a transportation
contact, freight trucking firms faced challenges in hiring long-
haul drivers, as drivers opted to remain on  unemployment
benefits  rather than accept higher income for driving long-
distance routes. Prices at services firms climbed more slowly
since our last report.  Finance. Lending activity in the District was mixed over the
last six weeks. Several commercial bankers in Virginia and
Maryland reported moderate increases in loan demand in recent
weeks, although some of the increase was from refinancing. One
banker attributed an increase in loan applications to businesses
shopping around to establish new bank relationships. Also, a
lending officer in Richmond reported a sharp increase in loans
to existing customers, because new products were now available
and the approval process was faster. However, several bankers in
West Virginia and the Carolinas noted a recent slowdown in home
mortgage lending, following signs of improvement as recently as
July. An exception was home refinancing, which benefited from
lower  mortgage rates , according to several sources. One
commercial and industrial loan officer stated that the recent
rise in economic uncertainty had caused several of his clients
to pay down debt. Another banker reported that local auto
dealers were borrowing less now, but were expected to increase
their borrowing for new model year deliveries. Most banks
continued to report improvements in  credit quality , partly due
to tighter credit standards. However, that tightening also
contributed to a slowdown of the approval process.  Real Estate. Residential real estate activity continued to be
depressed. Several brokers reported that sales in their area had
dropped and that housing prices continued to decline. A contact
in  Charlotte  described the local real estate market as worsening,
while a source from Richmond stated that new building permits
were down. According to a contact in Baltimore, the housing
market remained slow and short sales were getting harder to
close due to tighter regulatory standards. A Realtor from
Northern Virginia said that there were fewer foreclosure sales
in the market, but added that short sales were still about 50
percent of her company’s sales. Another Realtor in the D.C. area
expected fewer sales for the upcoming season because inventory
was shrinking, but said that low  interest rates  should keep the
market active. He added that a moderate trend of sales at or
above full price should continue for properties in good
condition. Finally, a market analyst from the eastern Virginia
area noted a modest improvement in sales activity, particularly
in more urban areas. He also noted that new construction had
shifted towards smaller, more energy-efficient homes.  Commercial real estate and construction activity was little
changed from weak levels that have persisted throughout much of
this year. Many commercial Realtors described the market as
“spotty,” with gains one week being offset by declines the next.
Warehouse leasing activity fell, due to soft manufacturing sales
and production. A Realtor in Virginia cited modest improvements
in leasing by small industrial clients who were expanding, but
added that he had to offer lower rents to retain several office
tenants. An agent covering the Carolinas noted that “leases were
getting done,” but problems obtaining financing were holding
back many deals. A South Carolina Realtor described the office
market as mixed, but noted that gains were limited to the high
end of the market. On the construction side, several contractors
also described business as slow-paced. A contractor in  Maryland 
stated that a slight increase in building renovations during
June and July ended in August. Several contractors reported an
uptick in government-related projects, while private work
continued to decline.  Labor Markets. Although reports on labor market activity were
varied in September, on balance their tone was more negative
than in our last report. Employment agencies reported somewhat
stronger demand for temporary help in recent weeks, particularly
in the manufacturing sector, but indicated that finding
qualified workers was becoming an increasing concern. A Virginia
contact noted that one-in-five businesses were having problems
finding workers with the desired skills, particularly in the
manufacturing and professional business services industries. A
manager of a temp agency in  North Carolina  stated that companies
were hiring workers on a more permanent basis, but companies
were taking longer to do so than in the past. A temp agency
executive from the Charlotte area reported that, despite a
backlog of work and employees working a lot of overtime, a
manufacturer was still unwilling to hire at this time due to
concerns about future demand. According to our latest survey,
service sector hiring was flat over the last month. Retail
sector wages were weak, while wages at service firms edged up.
Hiring by manufacturers strengthened over the last month, while
the average workweek eased and wage growth inched higher.  Tourism. Following  Hurricane Irene  in late August, hotels and
related businesses on the  Outer Banks  of North Carolina quickly
re-opened to serve late-season travelers. The southern portion
of the Outer Banks suffered extensive damage, including
destruction of buildings and roadways, particularly along the
Hatteras side. These tourist destinations are now closed, and
many may not re-open until next spring. However, tourism
remained vibrant in other areas. A hotel manager in western
North Carolina reported strong bookings, both for groups and for
pleasure stays. He noted that “leaf peepers” were booked for
October and into November, and local holiday attractions were
expected to keep bookings up through the end of the year.
Hospitality contacts in Richmond and Baltimore also reported
solid business. Finally, a contact said that recent
international media attention on the earthquake-damaged
Washington Monument has been overwhelming. He added that the new
Martin Luther King Memorial was drawing huge crowds. 