-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-19T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s First District--  Boston .  FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON  Business contacts in the First District mostly continue to see
demand growth, but many are toning down their outlooks.
Contacted retailers’ year-over-year percentage sales changes
range from low single-digit declines to high single-digit
increases. Responses from manufacturers are mixed, but most
continue to report revenue growth. Advertising and consulting
firms generally cite strong results, but note a slowdown in the
pace. Commercial and residential real estate markets remain soft.
Net hiring remains very limited except for advertising and
consulting; even there, contacts see restrained hiring going
forward. Price pressures continue to ease; some commodity prices
are down and many firms are holding their own prices steady.
Contacts in several sectors cite uncertainty as a key factor
restraining demand.  Retail and Tourism  First District retailers contacted in late September and early
October provide mixed messages about sales trends and many note
they are having a difficult time gauging their current
circumstances. On a year-over-year basis, sales range from being
down 3 percent to up 8 percent, with several in the “generally
flat” middle. One big-ticket retailer saw sales steadily moving
up over the last few weeks, although he cautions that a few
weeks do not constitute a trend. Another retailer notes that
sales have been up and down, on both a daily and a weekly basis,
and attributes this volatility to consumer sentiment gyrating
with positive and negative news about the domestic and global
economy. Furniture sales are reportedly up a bit in some markets
and apparel sales are said to be good. Some retailers still face
“high” vendor prices and say they are passing them on to
consumers. Contacts are uncertain about what to expect for the
2011 holiday sales season. Firms say they are budgeting about
2.5 percent wage increases for 2012, are hiring selectively, and
are not planning layoffs.  The travel and tourism sector reports strength despite the
generally downbeat global economic climate. Within the sector,
leisure travel is slowing, while domestic and international
business travel remains 5 percent to 7 percent higher than in
2010. September growth slowed to 4 percent from the 5 percent to
7 percent year-over-year gains seen earlier in 2011. Advance
hotel bookings for 2012:Q1 are up. The industry is expecting
positive but slower growth in 2012.  Manufacturing and Related Services  Business conditions at contacted manufactures are mixed. Most
respondents continue to report revenue growth, but the vast
majority also report that they are less optimistic about the
next six to eighteen months than they were the last time they
responded. Demand continues to be strong for firms in the
automotive and aerospace components industries, as well as for a
medical device firm, a semiconductor firm, and companies
manufacturing industrial-related products. In comparison, sales
growth remains positive but slow at an instruments manufacturer,
a business services firm, and a company that makes entertainment
products. Reasons contacts give for this sluggish demand include
continued tepid sales to government-related institutions and
financial services firms being very cautious about their
expenditures. Demand was noticeably lower than in previous
quarters--beyond the typical slowdown during the summer months--
at a food products manufacturer. In addition, a business
products firm and a manufacturer whose sales are dependent on
the residential investment sector report even weaker demand than
in the previous quarter.  Hiring at contacted manufacturers is limited to replacing
workers who depart through retirement and/or attrition. A
semiconductor firm says it is implementing a hiring freeze
because incoming orders for 2012 have dropped sharply in recent
weeks, especially from  China . A business products firm continues
to reduce headcount as part of a strategic restructuring plan
and the manufacturer with sales tied heavily to residential
investment is also reducing its workforce for the first time
since 2009. A repeated theme from the majority of contacts is
that they are implementing changes to keep costs low and/or
reduce operating expenses. A couple of firms note that merit
increases in 2012 will likely be lower than in 2011, while
another firm plans to restructure its healthcare benefits to
shift more of the costs to employees without offsetting pay
increases.  There are fewer reports of input price pressures from
manufacturers than in recent months, even though prices for some
food-related commodities such as milk remain high. In fact,
copper prices have dropped substantially in the last month or so
and other precious metals prices have also declined;  oil prices 
are also lower. Thus some manufacturers are facing noticeably
lower costs; for the most part, they say they are waiting to see
if commodity prices stay lower before adjusting their selling
prices. More generally, contacted firms say their selling prices
remain stable, although they are raising prices “as needed,” as
indicated in previous reports. Some manufacturers note, however,
that consumers are currently reluctant to spend on discretionary
items, so they are offering promotions to partially offset price
increases and/or promote their products so as not to lose
customers to lower cost competitors.  Despite the uncertain economic environment, contacted
manufacturers continue to look for worthwhile investment
opportunities, and some have made recent acquisitions. To the
extent that manufacturers are holding back on investment, they
say it is not because of a lack of credit or insufficient cash
holdings. Overall, firms are less optimistic about business
conditions heading into 2012 than they were in the last round.
Many firms are shifting any pickup in demand they previously
anticipated for 2012 forward to 2013.  Selected Business Services  Consulting and advertising contacts in the First District report
generally strong business conditions, although weaker than three
months ago. Marketing and advertising contacts report robust
growth--between 10 percent and 25 percent year-over-year. The
higher end of the growth figures are driven by demand from
financial firms, including private equity, who need to market
new products in the changing financial and regulatory
environment. Strategy and business consulting contacts report
weaker demand in the third quarter than earlier in the year;
they say clients are focusing on services that can be directly
tied to the bottom line such as sales and process efficiency
rather than strategy and management. Economic consulting firms
report varying degrees of success, with firms doing government
work experiencing stagnant demand, while firms focused on
litigation see strong growth (close to 20 percent) reflecting
growing caseloads involving large financial firms and the
financial crisis. A healthcare consulting firm cites growth of
only 2 percent year-over-year, attributing it to weakness in the
pharmaceutical industry, with most growth coming from  developing
countries .  Contacts say they are generally raising prices about 3 percent
to 5 percent to cover cost increases and maintain profit margins.
Two strategic consulting contacts, however, made bigger price
changes: one firm dropped prices by 10 percent to compete with
cheaper foreign firms, primarily in  India , while the other
raised prices 10 percent to keep up with compensation costs.
Hiring activity is mixed, with firms spread along the spectrum
from a 25 percent addition to a 10 percent layoff. Nearly all
contacts, however, say hiring is likely to be restrained or flat
for the foreseeable future.  For the most part, contacts have revised their expectations
downward since the last conversation in July. Although many
still expect business conditions and profitability to remain
strong, they note that they are in a highly pro-cyclical
industry and economic indicators point towards a pessimistic
outlook. The one exception is firms that primarily provide
services to the financial industry, who expect strong growth as
financial firms continue to deal with the aftermath of the
financial crisis and regulatory overhaul. Several contacts say
they believe the increasing prospect of continued political
stalemate in  Washington  is having serious deleterious effects on
both their firms and the economy as a whole.  Commercial Real Estate  Reports from commercial real estate contacts around the District
contain a mix of good news and bad. On the good news side, in
both Boston and Providence significant amounts of  office space 
were absorbed in the third quarter as tenants took advantage of
attractive rents for prime locations. In the column of bad news,
the outlook turned more pessimistic among roughly half of
contacts in light of a perceived increase in national and global
risks to growth. Respondents also report a number of other mixed
or contradictory signals. While one contact perceives that
leasing activity in downtown Boston has increased in recent
weeks, another contact notes that the pace of office absorption
year-to-date in Boston, while positive, remains well below what
would be expected in a healthy recovery. Sales activity remains
limited in Providence, while Boston continues to enjoy robust
investment demand for prime office and apartment properties. The
lending environment is characterized, on the one hand, by
aggressive competition to fund loans on low-risk properties,
such as well-leased buildings in prime Boston locations, and, on
the other hand, by a decline in credit availability for
properties carrying higher risk, such as those experiencing high
vacancy rates. Construction activity in Boston continues at a
moderate pace in the apartment, education, and health sectors,
while office construction activity is described as negligible.  Residential Real Estate  Notwithstanding substantial increases in home and condo sales in
August compared to a year ago, residential real estate markets
in  New England  remain weak and sluggish. Contacts note that the
enormous decline in buyer activity last year following the
expiration of the tax credit largely explains the year-over-year
increases observed this year. Meanwhile, the median sale prices
of homes and condos decreased slightly in August throughout the
region, with the exception of the Greater Boston area where
prices rose. Inventory levels in Greater Boston reached very low
levels in August. Residential respondents throughout New England
describe buyers as cautious and patient, reflecting fears over
 job security . Some contacts express concern about the ability of
consumers to secure home-purchase financing. At the same time,
several contacts note an increase in investors purchasing
single-family properties to rent out.  Forecasts for the remainder of the year remain bleak, with
contacts anticipating 2011 sales will fall short of last year’s
total. Respondents do not expect a significant improvement in
residential real estate within the next one to two years. 