-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-19T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District--  San Francisco   TWELFTH DISTRICT-SAN FRANCISCO  Summary  Economic activity in the Twelfth District grew at a moderate
pace during the reporting period of September through early
October. Upward price pressures were mixed but remained modest
overall, and upward wage pressures were limited to a narrow set
of skilled occupations. Sales of retail items rose, as did
demand for business and consumer services. District
manufacturing activity improved modestly. Agricultural producers
reported further sales gains, and demand rose a bit for
providers of energy resources. Home sales and construction
remained lackluster, and demand for commercial real estate
stayed weak in most markets. District banking contacts indicated
that overall loan demand was largely unchanged.  Wages and Prices  Overall price inflation for final goods and services was modest
during the reporting period. Contacts noted additional price
declines for energy inputs, particularly oil, but slight upticks
in the costs of assorted raw materials. The combination of weak
final demand and robust competition by firms continued to hold
down final prices for a wide range of goods and services.  Contacts in most sectors reported that upward wage pressures
were nearly nonexistent, held down by limited demand for new
hires and high levels of unemployment. However, wage gains
remained pronounced for narrow worker groups with specialized
skills, particularly in information technology fields. The
reports suggested that wage gains are likely to remain muted for
the foreseeable future, as most businesses do not expect to
engage in significant hiring over the balance of 2011, except
for normal seasonal needs.  Retail Trade and Services Retail sales expanded overall. Despite
contact reports of deteriorating consumer sentiment, sales
improved for both traditional department stores and discount
chains alike. By contrast, sales were largely flat for grocers
and retailers of major appliances, furniture, and electronics.
Sales of new automobiles improved substantially, as demand
growth was met by restocked inventories for some brands that had
struggled with shortages resulting from the natural disaster in
 Japan  earlier this year. In response to the surge in demand for
new autos, the demand for used vehicles weakened somewhat and
their prices softened. Despite recent gains, contacts expect
that overall  consumer spending  in the final months of the year
will be little changed from the same period last year.  Demand for business and consumer services was mixed but appeared
to improve on balance. Energy utilities reported further
increases in demand from businesses and households. Sales
continued to expand for providers of technology services,
although the pace of growth has slowed from reporting periods
earlier in the year. Demand was largely flat for providers of
professional services such as legal services and accounting and
also for health care. Providers of transportation services
reported slightly slower activity. Conditions in the District’s
travel and tourism industry were mixed: contacts in  Hawaii  noted
a slight decline in visitor volumes, while contacts in other
major markets, such as  San Diego  and  Las Vegas , noted further
improvements in visitor counts and hotel occupancy rates.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing activity in the District showed modest gains on
balance during the reporting period of September through early
October. Makers of commercial aircraft and parts reported
ongoing growth in new orders, which combined with an existing
backlog to keep production rates near capacity. Apparel makers
noted an increase in new orders, and production activity grew
for food manufacturers. Manufacturers of semiconductors and
other technology products reported further moderation in the
pace of growth for new orders and sales, although capacity
utilization rates stayed quite high. Capacity utilization rates
also remained largely stable for petroleum refiners, despite
increased distillate demand, as they strived to reduce elevated
product inventories. Demand remained feeble for manufacturers of
wood products used for construction, and this was accompanied by
recent signs of weakness in the pulp and paper sector, which had
reported growth earlier this year.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Demand continued to expand for agricultural products, and
activity overall improved somewhat for metal miners and
extractors of natural resources used for energy production.
Final sales and orders rose further for assorted crops and
livestock products, and reports indicated little change in the
cost and availability of inputs. High  price levels  for assorted
metals continued to boost production and investment in the
District’s mining sector. Extraction activity for natural gas
was little changed from the prior period, while overall demand
for crude oil improved somewhat as a result of rising foreign
demand, particularly from emerging-market economies.  Real Estate and Construction  District home demand remained quite weak, and demand for
commercial real estate was largely unchanged. The pace of home
sales stayed sluggish throughout the District. The large number
of distressed properties kept inventories of available homes
high, putting downward pressure on prices and the pace of new
 home construction . In response to weak home demand, however,
demand for residential rentals continued to improve, spurring
expanded construction of multifamily units in some areas. Demand
for commercial real estate was generally weak, as reflected in
elevated vacancy rates for office and industrial space in most
parts of the District. Furthermore, contacts noted a renewed
sense of caution on the part of some business tenants and
consequent reluctance to commit to long-term leases. On the
other hand, conditions continued to improve for some major
District markets, with rising investor demand for well-leased
office buildings further boosting property values.  Financial Institutions District banking contacts reported that
loan demand was little changed from the prior reporting period.
Businesses in general remained highly cautious in regard to
their capital spending plans, citing recently elevated levels of
uncertainty about the direction of the economy. As a result,
demand for commercial and industrial loans was largely flat,
although some contacts noted that competition among lenders to
extend credit to well-qualified small and medium-sized
businesses continued to intensify, placing further downward
pressure on rates and fees. Demand for  consumer credit  was
characterized as stable. Lending standards remained relatively
restrictive for most types of business and consumer loans. 