-- 
Treasury Notes Advance as U.S. Equities Decline on European Debt Concern

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-10-19T21:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-30-year-bonds-fall-as-asian-stocks-gain-before-price-housing-data.html
Treasury notes rose as U.S. stocks
dropped after a split emerged between France and Germany on
proposals to leverage  Europe ’s rescue fund, stoking demand for
the safety of government debt.  U.S. 30-year bonds fluctuated, falling earlier amid
speculation on whether European Union leaders, who meet for a
summit Oct. 23, may be nearing a resolution of the region’s debt
crisis. The  Federal Reserve  said companies reported more doubt
about the strength of the economic recovery. The U.S. will sell
$7 billion tomorrow of inflation-linked bonds.  “There’s still volatility, with the market reacting to
every headline with regard to the summit this weekend,” said
Dan Mulholland, a Treasury trader in New York at Royal Bank of
Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, one of 22 primary dealers
that trade Treasuries with the Fed. “Expectations have been for
a positive outcome. If that’s in question, the Treasury market
will rally for sure.”  Ten-year yields fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 2.16 percent at 5:07 p.m.  New York  time, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They rose earlier as much as five
basis points. The 2.125 percent securities maturing in August
2021 gained 1/8, or $1.25 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 22/32.
Two-year note yields were unchanged at 0.27 percent.  ‘Wild Animal’  The 30-year yield was little changed at 3.18 percent after
falling to as low as 3.14 percent and climbing to as high as
3.23 percent.  “The bond has been a wild animal,” said Russ Certo, a
managing director and co-head of rates trading at Gleacher & Co.
in New York. “It’s gyrating with the global headlines, swinging
back and forth. The 30-year is the most sensitive right now to
the pent-up emotion in the marketplace and the potential for
governmental policies.”  The yield gap between 30- and two-year Treasuries increased
earlier to as wide as 2.96 percentage points, approaching the
2.97 percentage point high for the month set Oct. 14.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.3 percent after
earlier rising 0.4 percent.  U.S. 10-year notes erased earlier losses as Franco-German
division on the role of the  European Central Bank  in leveraging
the euro bailout fund emerged at an event in  Frankfurt  today to
mark the conclusion of Jean-Claude Trichet’s term as the ECB’s
president. Euro-area leaders assembled in Frankfurt four days
before the summit to solve the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  ECB Role  The issues frustrating them include how to write down as
much as 50 percent on Greek bonds, setting up a backstop for
banks and finding a continued central bank role. French Finance
Minister  Francois Baroin  disclosed to reporters the depth of the
disagreement on the ECB, which along with Germany has rejected
using its balance sheet to bolster the 440 billion-euro ($607
billion) European Financial Stability Facility.  While  Germany  endorsed enabling the EFSF to insure a portion
of cash-strapped nations’ bond sales, Baroin said France wanted
to turn it into a bank that could tap the ECB.  The Fed said in its Beige Book regional economic survey
consumer spending rose slightly last month and the  U.S. economy 
maintained its expansion.  Conditions in the labor market were “little changed, on
balance, in September” and several Fed districts saw “only
limited and selective demand for new hires,” the central bank
said. The Boston, Richmond, Atlanta, and Chicago districts said
further hiring was “being restrained by elevated uncertainty or
lower expectations for their future growth.”  Fed Purchase  The Fed purchased $4.88 billion of Treasuries maturing from
October 2017 to August 2019 today as part of its effort to lower
borrowing costs.  The central bank said on Sept. 21 it would buy $400 billion
of  U.S. debt  with maturities of six to 30 years through June
while selling an equal amount of securities in its portfolio due
in three years or less. The program is known as Operation Twist.  The U.S. will auction $7 billion in 30-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities tomorrow. The last sale of the
securities, a $7 billion offering on June 23, drew a record low
yield of 1.744 percent.  Treasuries fell earlier as data showed builders began work
on more U.S. homes than forecast in September, starting 658,000
houses at an annual rate, Commerce Department data showed. That
was up 15 percent from August and the most since April 2010. A
Bloomberg News survey forecast a 590,000 pace.  Ten-year notes yielded negative 1.71 percentage points
after subtracting the rate of consumer-price increases in the
U.S. The figure, called the real yield, was negative 2.05
percentage points on Sept. 22.  ‘Back-Burner Concern’  The  consumer price index  rose 0.3 percent from the prior
month, in line with the median projection of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News, Labor Department data showed. Excluding
volatile food and fuel costs, the so-called core rose 0.1
percent, less than forecast and the smallest gain since March.  “Inflation is a back-burner concern right now,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees $12 billion in Fixed income
assets. “The deal or no-deal developments in Europe play a much
bigger role than the economic data today.”  U.S. government securities have lost 0.8 percent in
October, the most since December, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data show. An index of sovereign bonds around the world dropped
0.6 percent over the same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  