-- 
U.S. Speculation Caps May Hike Consumer Costs, Sommers Says

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 
2011-10-19T20:38:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-speculation-curbs-may-hike-costs-on-consumers-sommers-says.html
Limits on speculation in oil, wheat,
gold and natural gas that the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  approved yesterday may increase prices for companies
that could then be passed on to consumers, said Jill E. Sommers,
a panel member who opposed the rule.  “The likelihood exists that bona-fide hedgers will incur
increased costs,” Sommers, one of two Republicans at the CFTC,
said in a speech at the Exchequer Club of  Washington  today.
“Increased costs for bona-fide hedgers will probably lead to
increased costs for consumers -- a result that is at complete
odds with the stated goals of Dodd-Frank.”  The so-called position limits rule was approved in a 3-2
vote under a mandate from the Dodd-Frank Act, the 2010 overhaul
of financial regulation. Dodd-Frank gave the CFTC authority to
limit trading in over-the-counter commodity swaps as well as
exchange-traded futures. The rule will limit the number of
contracts a single firm can hold.  “Consumers have already been paying a premium for
excessive speculation -- a Wall Street premium,” Commissioner
 Bart Chilton , a Democrat who supported the rule, said today.
“That will end with this rule.”  The rule was opposed by  Barclays Capital , the  International
Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc.  and  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the
world’s largest futures exchange.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , consumer
advocacy groups and lawmakers, including Senators  Carl Levin , a
Michigan Democrat, and  Maria Cantwell , a Washington Democrat,
urged the agency to adopt limits on speculation.  ‘Concerned’  “We remain concerned that various provisions of the final
rule relating to net portfolio and anticipatory hedging
strategies will constrain the legitimate risk management
activities by commercial participants,” CME Group Inc. said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Firms that use derivatives to hedge commercial risk, like
airlines, farmers and refiners, will be exempt from limits under
the so-called bona fide hedge exemption. Congress narrowed that
exemption to exclude swap dealers like JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which may be
subject to the new limits.  The final rule, not yet published, will list types of
transactions that will be eligible for the exemption. In a last-
minute clarification added to the rule during yesterday’s
meeting, the commission will allow firms to request guidance
from the agency on whether their transactions will be covered by
the exemption.  “If someone thinks, ‘Well, maybe we’re not covered,’ they
can come and knock on the door and we can address that,” CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  said during yesterday’s meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington D.C. at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net . 