-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-19T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District--  Minneapolis .  NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS  The Ninth District economy increased modestly since the last
report. Increased activity was noted in  consumer spending ,
tourism, residential and commercial construction, residential
and commercial real estate, professional services, manufacturing,
energy and mining. Hiring at district companies increased
slightly, while wage pressures remained generally subdued.
Overall prices were steady with some exceptions noted.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending grew moderately. A major Minneapolis-based
retailer reported that same-store sales in September increased
over 5 percent compared with a year earlier. A manager at a
Minneapolis area mall reported that traffic in August and
September has been busy, while a mall manager in Montana said
“back-to-school” traffic in August and September was steady. A
 Minnesota  bar and restaurant chain reported that recent sales
were up about 3 percent from a year earlier. A Minnesota
supermarket chain noted that consumers continued to trade
downward from high-end products to value-oriented products. Auto
dealers in southern Minnesota reported that sales were bouncing
back to stronger levels; consumers who put off purchases over
the past couple of years are now needing to buy a different
vehicle.  Fall tourism activity was up slightly. The Minnesota State Fair
in late August and early September was the third-best attended
in history, down 1 percent from the 2009 record. Fall tourism
was on par with last year in western South Dakota, according to
an official. Meanwhile, a Minnesota travel agency reported that
recent corporate travel was up 15 percent from a year ago.  Construction and Real Estate  Commercial construction activity increased slightly since the
last report. The value of commercial building permits in
September increased from a year ago in the Sioux Falls, S.D.,
area. Commercial construction in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan
increased recently, according to a labor official. In Minnesota,
a telecommunications equipment provider is building a large
addition. In  Montana , an agricultural supplier plans to expand
its research center. However, a survey by a Minnesota building
contractors association revealed a slight decline in activity
over the past month. Residential construction increased. A bank
director noted strong building activity in  North Dakota . The
value of residential building permits in September increased
from last year in the Sioux Falls area. A large developer
announced plans to build a $100 million apartment tower in
downtown Minneapolis. However, the value of residential building
permits in September decreased from last year in the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area.  Commercial real estate markets were up slightly. Respondents to
a Minneapolis Fed ad hoc survey indicated a slight increase in
the need for additional space over the next three months. A
Minnesota venture capital firm that funds minority-owned
businesses noted an increase in purchases of vacant buildings. A
large broker of retail space in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area
noted increased leasing activity during the past two months. A
broker for  office space  reported that leasing activity has
recently edged up. However, the number of sales transactions was
still low. Home sales in September were up significantly from
the same period a year ago in Minneapolis-St. Paul. August sales
in the  Sioux Falls  area increased from last year; however, the
median price of homes sold in August decreased from last year.  Services  Professional business services firms reported increased activity
over the past three months. About half of services firms that
responded to the Minneapolis Fed’s ad hoc survey saw increased
sales, while 27 percent saw decreased sales. Respondents noted
that profits were also up, and they expect increased activity
over the next three months. A Minnesota software company
experienced double-digit revenue growth over the past two months.
A recent survey of 47 Minnesota architects and engineers
revealed increased activity over the past month.  Manufacturing  District manufacturing activity increased since the last report.
A survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha,
Neb.) showed an increase in manufacturing activity in Minnesota
and the Dakotas in September. An ammunition producer is
expanding its operations in Minnesota. An industrial heater
producer has expanded operations into a formerly shuttered
vehicle plant in North Dakota. In  South Dakota , a plastic
sheeting producer is expanding its production facility, an
electronics producer opened a new plant and a new slaughterhouse
should be completed in November after a delay of several years.  Energy and Mining  Activity in the energy and mining sectors continued at a strong
pace. Late-September oil exploration activity increased from
mid-August. A company announced plans to begin working on a $300
million wind power plant in southwestern North Dakota. District
iron ore mines continued to operate at near capacity. Activity
at Montana mines remains strong, driven by high metals prices,
according to contacts.  Agriculture  Ninth District farmers are expecting smaller harvests this year,
but prices remain elevated. An early frost in late September may
reduce corn and soybean yields around the District. Recent dry
weather has been a boon to wheat harvesters, but overall wheat
production in District states is expected to be about 15 percent
lower than last year, according to U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates. Prices for corn, soybeans, wheat, dairy
products, poultry and hogs fell slightly since the last report;
cattle prices increased recently. In spite of these recent
declines, prices for many District agricultural commodities
remained well above their year-earlier levels.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Hiring at district companies increased slightly. A Minnesota
firm that provides automation technologies and services to the
oil and gas industries announced plans to add 100 workers. A
bank will add 90 workers in Minnesota to deal with a surge in
refinancing. A mine in the Upper Peninsula of  Michigan  was
having some difficulty hiring 90 additional workers. A North
Dakota bus plant will add over 50 workers, and a South Dakota
health care record processing company will hire 20 new workers.
According to a survey of construction-related firms in Minnesota,
18 percent expect to increase hiring in 2012, while 33 percent
expect to decrease hiring; nevertheless, these responses were
more optimistic than last year’s survey.  Wage pressures remained generally subdued. However, in North
Dakota, some wage increases were reported due to gains in hiring
related to the oil industry.  Overall prices were steady with some exceptions noted. Bank
directors reported that generally companies were resistant to
increasing prices for their final products and services over the
next six months. Minnesota gasoline prices were down 40 cents
per gallon in early October compared with early September.
However, some business contacts reported recent increases in
health care costs. According to the Minneapolis Fed’s ad hoc
survey, 45 percent of respondents indicated that input costs
were up from a year ago. 