-- 
U.S. To Resume Talks With North Korea, Appoints New Envoy

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-10-20T05:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-sees-direct-talks-with-north-korea-as-better-than-no-talks.html
The U.S. will resume direct talks
with  North Korea  next week in Geneva in the hope that engaging
Kim Jong Il’s regime will prevent it from taking hostile
actions, including nuclear weapons tests.  A U.S. official who spoke on condition of anonymity said
that while there is no new information suggesting a change of
heart by North Korea, the Obama administration has decided that
engagement may prevent hostile provocations. The U.S. yesterday
announced the appointment of a full-time envoy to oversee the
effort to persuade North Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons
program, with Glyn Davies, ambassador to the  International
Atomic Energy Agency  in Vienna, succeeding  Stephen Bosworth .  North Korea has repeatedly broken agreements to dismantle
its atomic program and tensions have risen since attacks last
year that killed 50 South Koreans. The U.S. and the  United
Nations  have increased  sanctions  against Kim’s government
following missile and atomic tests while calling on the country
to return to six-nation disarmament talks.  The Oct. 24-25 meeting in Geneva will be “exploratory in
nature,” and both Davies and Bosworth will attend, State
Department spokesman Mark Toner said yesterday in  Washington .  “I don’t think we can expect much out of this meeting, but
it could be seen as progress if they can at least set agendas
for future talks,” said Dong Yong Sueng, a senior fellow at the
Samsung Economic Research Institute in Seoul. “This will just
serve to help ease tensions and create a more favorable
atmosphere.”  Lee Consulted  The decision to proceed after a preliminary U.S.-North
Korea meeting in July was made in consultation with South Korean
President Lee Myung-bak, who met with President  Barack Obama 
last week in Washington, the official said. North Korea has met
one precondition the U.S. laid out: to restart dialogue and
cease provocations against South Korea.  At the meeting in  New York  three months ago, Bosworth laid
out how North Korea should demonstrate its seriousness about
abiding by previous commitments to dismantle its nuclear weapons
program. Along with his duties as envoy, Bosworth is also dean
at  Tufts University  in Medford,  Massachusetts .  Sanctions, crop failures and a bungled currency revaluation
have hurt North Korea’s $22 billion economy, which shrank 0.9
percent in 2009, according to South Korea’s central bank. In
response, the government has sought more assistance from  China ,
North Korea’s biggest ally, and bilateral trade rose 30 percent
last year to $3.5 billion.  Grooming a Successor  The country’s isolation underscores the challenges for the
69-year-old Kim as he grooms his third son, Kim Jong Un, to
succeed him. The younger Kim, believed to be in his late 20’s,
was made a four-star general in September 2010 and appointed to
the second-highest military post within the ruling Workers’
Party of Korea.  North Korea abandoned six-nation nuclear disarmament talks
involving the U.S.,  South Korea ,  Japan , China and Russia in
April 2009. The next month it staged a second nuclear test and
last year revealed a secret uranium-enrichment program.  Kim’s regime shelled a South Korean island in November,
killing four people. It has denied an international report
blaming North Korea for the torpedoing of a South Korean warship
in March 2010 that claimed the lives of 46 sailors.  The peninsula has technically been in a state of war since
the 1950-53 Korean war ended in a cease-fire, not a peace
treaty.  The U.S. had refused until July to hold any talks with
North Korea in light of its hostile actions. The U.S. now wants
evidence of real progress before returning to six-nation talks
and the possibility of offering recognition to North  Korea , the
administration official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan at in Kabul or
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  