-- 
U.S. Company Risk Rises as Europe’s Leaders to Gather on Crisis

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-10-19T21:32:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-company-risk-rises-as-europe-s-leaders-to-gather-on-crisis.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk erased its third decline in four days as German and
French leaders tried to narrow divisions before a summit this
weekend to tackle Europe’s debt crisis.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, added 1.8 basis points to a mid-
price of 134.5 basis points at 5:12 p.m. New York time, after
earlier dropping as much as 1.9 basis points, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd. Swaps on  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  led a decline on contracts tied to banks.  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, reversed a
decline triggered by Commerce Department figures in  Washington 
showing that housing starts climbed 15 percent to 658,000 houses
at an annual rate, the most since April 2010. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a 590,000 pace.  A Franco-German split on the role of the  European Central
Bank  in leveraging the euro bailout fund emerged at an event in
 Frankfurt  today that was intended to mark the conclusion of
Jean-Claude Triche’s term as ECB president.  The CDX index had decreased from 150.1 on Oct. 3 as
investor optimism mounted that  Europe ’s debt crisis will be
contained. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Williams, Abbott Swaps  Swaps on Goldman Sachs fell 23.8 basis points to 321.2
basis points, according to London-based data provider CMA, a day
after reporting its second quarterly loss in 12 years. The New
York-based firm sold $500 million of 50-year unsecured bonds,
according to a person familiar with the sale, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  Contracts on Williams Cos. dropped the most in eight months
after the company said it will spin off its exploration and
production unit by the end of the year and canceled a planned
$750 million initial public offering for a portion of it. Swaps
on the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based firm fell 26.8 to 163.5, the lowest
since August, CMA data show.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  swaps rose after the maker of  infant
formula , heart stents and prescription medicines said it will
split into two companies next year. The contracts climbed 14.9
to 56, CMA data show.  The Abbott Park, Illinois-based firm will divide into two
publicly traded companies, with one focusing on generic drugs
and medical devices and the other research-based medicines, it
said today in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  