-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-19T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA  Business activity in the Third District has remained mixed, with
more positive sectors than negative ones compared with the
previous  Beige Book . In late August and early September,
Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee left dozens of people
injured or dead, damaged or destroyed thousands of homes, and
cost hundreds of millions of dollars in disruption and damage
throughout much of the Third District. Since the last Beige Book,
manufacturing activity has declined further, but at a slower
rate. Retailers reported flat to slightly down year-over-year
sales. Motor vehicle dealers provided a bright spot with
stronger year-over-year sales. Third District banks have
reported little overall change in loan volume outstanding since
the last Beige Book. On balance, residential real estate and
construction activity have been slightly stronger since the last
Beige Book, which was released soon after the debt-ceiling
turmoil. Commercial real estate contacts have continued to
report steady to slightly improved market conditions in most
parts of the Third District. Service-sector firms reported
generally flat to modest growth. Price pressures have moderated
for many sectors but continue to strain profit margins.  Most Third District business contacts had already lowered their
expectations over the past few months -- projecting slow to flat
growth through year-end. Ongoing uncertainty since the previous
Beige Book has not significantly altered their outlook.
Manufacturers still expect a modest rise in shipments and orders
during the next six months. Retailers are hopeful for stronger
sales, and auto dealers are uncertain; both have lean inventory
plans. Most banking and residential real estate contacts had
lowered their expectations before the last Beige Book.
Commercial real estate contacts and service-sector firms
continue to plan for slow growth; however, uncertainty has
increased.  Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District
manufacturers reported further decreases in new orders and
shipments; however, the rate of slowdown has lessened and is
less widespread. The makers of primary metals, fabricated metals,
and electronic equipment reported declining product demand.
However, growing product demand was reported by makers of food
products, lumber and wood products, industrial machinery, and
instruments, and by printers and publishers.  Hurricane Irene  and
Tropical Storm Lee were mentioned positively (as a source of
increased demand for cleanup, repairs, and emergency equipment)
and negatively (for flooding, harvesting problems, and shipment
delays) by almost equal numbers of firms.  However, most firms were unaffected. Two key firms that supply
or service manufacturers and other broad sectors have reported
steady modest growth since the last Beige Book. Both anticipate
stable growth from most of their clients (except defense-related
firms) for the remainder of the year.  Third District manufacturers expect business conditions to
improve during the next six months, despite expressing
significant uncertainty. Since the last Beige Book, the general
outlook has improved substantially, with nearly one-third more
firms expecting an improvement and one-third fewer firms
expecting a decline. Capital spending plans among area
manufacturers remain slightly positive; however, significant
uncertainty has been expressed.  Retail. For most of August and September, Third District
retailers reported that sales were flat to down compared with a
year earlier. However, “October started off with a bang,” said
one department store chain manager. Low consumer confidence and
rising uncertainty were widely cited as reasons for maintaining
low inventory levels as the holiday season approached. Missed
profit opportunities may result if the holiday sales prove
stronger than last year, but a flat to down season could force
further retail store closings.  Auto sales picked up in August and September, according to Third
District auto dealers. Sales growth meant market share losses
for Honda and Toyota, which have resumed full production, but
whose dealer inventory may not be fully replenished until early
2012. Inventories remain lean and used cars remain scarce,
leading to strong prices for dealers. Limited rehiring may ensue,
if sales growth continues.  Finance. At most of the Third District banks contacted for this
report, total outstanding loan volume has been roughly level
since the previous Beige Book. Overall, commercial and
industrial loans and commercial real estate loans have
contracted somewhat. Bankers anticipate continued low consumer
loan demand due to high unemployment rates and ongoing
deleveraging, which has accelerated with the recent surge in
refinancings. Credit quality, along with growing corporate and
household cash balances, is improving. The outlook among Third
District bankers interviewed in September is that total loan
volume will expand only slightly over the remainder of the year.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate activity
in the Third District has been mixed with sales rising, then
falling since the previous Beige Book, and with builders
reporting slight gains in activity. August sales figures
finished up over the year, but agents reported that September
would be off last year’s pace. Properties are moving, but
inventory remains very high. Overall, 2011 sales are expected to
be lower than 2010 in all three Third District states. While
trends and timing varied across states, builders reported
somewhat stronger activity overall, since some distance has
passed since the debt-ceiling debate. Still, sales remain
difficult, and buyers noncommittal, as economic uncertainty
increases. “People are really scared,” said one builder. Labor
and material costs have flattened, but list pricing has, as
well; therefore, builders are struggling to hold margins. The
industry remains cautious.  Caution guides the commercial and industrial real estate sector
as well, but the sector is less susceptible to the news cycle.
Since the last Beige Book, continued slow growth has been
observed, with select markets beginning to tighten. In those
markets, vacancy rates tend to drop, rents rise, and concessions
disappear. Investor interest has picked up, but deals remain
difficult to close. New construction or renovation plans are
mostly limited to institutional, life sciences, multifamily, and
warehousing sectors in selected markets.  Services. Third District service-sector firms have reported flat
to modest growth since the last Beige Book. A logistics firm
reported above-average improvement, noting some growth was
seasonal. A staffing firm noted that its flat activity was
marked by relatively greater interest in workers with high
skills or low skills and little or no interest in workers with
medium skills. The debt-ceiling agreement has increased caution
for defense-related firms and may be a cause of future layoffs.
These firms as well as several other large service firms
reported greater efforts to expand their overseas markets, where
their growth rates have been stronger. Firms remain generally
positive, but very cautious, reporting that their own customers
often delay decisions.  Prices and Wages. Since the previous Beige Book, general  price
levels  remain contained. Price pressures have flattened or
lessened further for retailers, service-sector firms, and
builders for most factor prices; however, margins remain very
tight. Retailers did note increases for cotton products.
Manufacturers have been reporting slightly greater price
pressures and modestly greater success at passing along those
costs. Rents are rising in a few select markets, but  house
prices  remain soft or are falling, and wages pressures are low.
However, reports of shortages of skilled labor may reflect
unrealistically low wage offers. 