-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-19T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND  Economic activity in the Fourth District increased slowly during
the past six weeks. Manufacturers reported stable production but
a small decline in new orders and backlogs. Energy companies
noted little change in output. Freight transport volume trended
slightly higher. Retail sales rose slightly, whereas new-car
purchases were reported as mixed. Home builders are increasingly
turning to multi-family development as a revenue source, and
nonresidential contractors struggled to rebuild their backlogs.
The demand for business credit continued to slowly improve,
while consumer loan demand was generally weak.  The pace of hiring seen earlier in the third quarter has
diminished, especially in the manufacturing and energy sectors.
Staffing-firm representatives reported a drop-off in the number
of new  job openings , with vacancies concentrated in technical
occupations and healthcare. Wage pressures are contained. Prices
for materials used by manufacturers and building contractors
were fairly stable or fell slightly.  Manufacturing. Production at District factories during the past
six weeks was mainly stable along seasonal trends, with minor
declines in new orders and backlogs. Compared to year-ago levels,
output was moderately higher. Most of our contacts expect near-
term weakening in demand, but not to levels seen in the last
recession. Steel producers and service centers reported that
shipping volume was flat or somewhat higher. Shipments are being
driven by transportation, energy, and industrial-equipment-
related industries. Steel reps are cautious in their outlook but
remain hopeful that current volume can be maintained. District
auto production rose significantly in August on a month-over-
month basis due to production starts on the 2012 models and the
abatement of supply disruptions from  Japan . Year-over-year
output also rose, but the increase was limited to domestic
nameplates.  Manufacturers remain committed to their capital spending plans
for 2011; however, a few of our contacts indicated that they are
considering pulling back on spending for 2012. Capacity
utilization remains below normal at most factories, while steel
executives reported that their utilization rates were at or near
normal levels. Inventories are in line with sales. Reports on
raw materials show that prices were stable or declined slightly.
Nonetheless, several manufacturers announced modest price
increases that will go into effect early in the fourth quarter.
Expectations for rising steel prices were short-lived. Hiring
has diminished since our last report. Manufacturers who have
added to payrolls reported that it was difficult to recruit
highly skilled workers. Wage pressures are contained.  Construction. Single-family  home construction  remains at a low
level; however, several builders noted a recent pick up in
traffic and inquiries. Sales contracts were evenly distributed
across price-point categories. Half of our contacts reported
that constructing and managing multi-family developments now
accounts for most of their work. One contractor remarked that
his business has shifted to renovating foreclosed houses and
renting them. A few builders reported that they would like to
increase their spec inventory, but it remains difficult to
obtain financing. Expectations call for little change in
residential building in the near term. Not much difference was
seen in the list prices or discounting of new homes since our
last report, while building material prices showed normal
fluctuations. We heard comments about subcontractors attempting
to raise their prices to cover rising costs, but these attempts
were mainly unsuccessful. General contractors added slightly to
their payrolls. Any increases in take-home pay are being offset
by substantial increases in health insurance premiums.  Activity in nonresidential construction for small to medium-size
builders remained fairly weak, with much of their work limited
to expansions and lower-budget projects. However, the number of
inquiries has picked up slightly since our last report. The
biggest challenge facing builders at this time is adding backlog.
Construction contracts were primarily with health care providers
and manufacturers, while a decline was seen in government-funded
projects. Looking forward, our contacts expect modest growth at
best during the next six months. Building material prices held
steady. One builder mentioned that his firm recently purchased
construction equipment for the first time since 2007.
Construction payrolls and wages were stable.  Consumer Spending . Retailers described their sales for the
period from mid-August through late September as slightly higher
than during the previous six weeks. On a year-overyear basis,
transactions also improved, mainly in the low single digits.
Many of our contacts reported that customers were particularly
interested in items that are new and innovative. Looking ahead
to the fourth quarter, retailers expect sales to rise in the
low- to mid-single digits on a year-over-year basis; however,
grocers anticipate little change. We continued to hear about
some upward pressure on supplier prices, although it mainly
affects food products and items manufactured from cotton. In
response, retailers were selective about the amount of the price
pressures they passed through to consumers. Reports on profit
margins were mixed. Capital budgets remain as planned. Half of
our contacts said that outlays are higher than a year ago, and
that they are used mainly for remodeling, constructing new
stores, and e-commerce infrastructure. Little change in payrolls
is expected at existing stores.  Reports on new-vehicle sales from mid-August through late
September were mixed. On a year-over-year basis, vehicle
purchases improved for most of our contacts, with several noting
double-digit increases. Demand for fuel-efficient, less-
expensive cars continued to grow, although the market for
crossover vehicles remains fairly strong. Inventories are
rebuilding, especially for Japanese cars, but remain below what
many dealers would like. Dealers are cautious in their outlook
due to uncertainty about the economy and the availability of
vehicles that consumers want to buy. Demand for used cars is
steady but down slightly from earlier in the year. We heard a
few reports of some easing in credit restrictions, while banks
and  credit unions  continued to price loans very competitively.
Many dealers are in the process of initiating factory-mandated
programs for showroom upgrades and reimaging. The pickup in
dealer hiring that we saw a couple of months ago has diminished.
The few dealers who are looking to hire report that it is
difficult to find qualified candidates.  Banking. Demand for business loans showed a moderate improvement,
with requests being driven mainly by commercial real estate,
manufacturing, and healthcare. Reports indicated downward
pressure on  interest rates  for commercial credit. On the
consumer side, bankers reported that applications for home
equity lines of credit have declined, and they characterized
installment loan activity as flat or down. However, direct and
indirect auto lending continued to show strength. Applications
for refinancing residential mortgages have picked up due to
lower interest rates, with little activity in new purchases. No
changes were made to loan application standards. Since our last
report, many of our contacts have experienced substantial growth
in core deposits from consumers and businesses. Delinquencies
were mainly steady or declined across loan categories. Payrolls
were stable, with only very selective hiring expected for the
remainder of the year.  Energy. Conventional oil and natural gas drilling and production
were fairly stable during the past six weeks, while activity in
Marcellus and Utica shales expanded. A few producers expect
output from conventional wells to increase in the upcoming
months. Wellhead prices paid to independent producers remain on
a downward trend. Little change in coal output is anticipated
for the remainder of this year and into 2012. Spot prices for
coal increased slightly. Capital outlays are on target, with
moderate increases projected by oil and gas companies in the
upcoming months for drilling new wells. The cost of production
equipment and materials was flat during the past six weeks.
Energy payrolls held steady.  Transportation. Overall, freight transport volume continued on a
slight upward trend, with increases seen in consumer products,
including furniture. Most of our contacts expect volume to grow
at a slow, steady pace in the near term. Although diesel fuel
prices have moderated, a few contacts noted that their companies
still have a fuel surcharge in place. Truck maintenance costs
continued to rise. Two of our respondents have successfully
increased their shipping rates as customer contracts came up for
renewal. Capital outlays have accelerated during 2011 relative
to prior-year levels. Spending is mainly to replace aging
equipment and to support demand growth from energy customers.
One executive noted that newer engines and class 8 trucks are
increasing in price, and that it is becoming more difficult to
secure financing. Hiring has been largely for driver
replacement; however, we heard a couple of reports about
carriers adding capacity. Wage pressures are emerging due to a
tightening of the driver pool. 