-- 
U.S. Deploys Kamikaze Drones to Attack Afghan Taliban Targets

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-10-19T04:01:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/u-s-flew-kamikaze-drones-to-attack-taliban.html
U.S. Army and Air Force special
operations forces have used miniature kamikaze drones against
Taliban targets and plan to renew the attacks next year,
according to documents and an Army official.  The tube-launched Switchblade drone, made by Monrovia,
California-based  Aerovironment Inc. (AVAV) , was secretly sent to
 Afghanistan  for the first time last year. “Under a dozen” were
fired, said Army Deputy Product Director  William Nichols .  “It’s been used in Afghanistan by military personnel” and
“shown to be effective,” Nichols said. The drone’s GPS
guidance is made by  Rockwell Collins Inc. (COL)  and the warhead by
 Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK)   Disclosure of the Switchblade’s use in Afghanistan
highlights the Pentagon’s expanding range of missions for
remotely piloted aircraft. The fleet also includes broad-area
surveillance aircraft such as the  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  Global
Hawk, the missile-firing General Atomics Co. Predator and Reaper
drones, and hand-launched short-range surveillance models, such
as the Aerovironment Raven.  Nichols declined to describe the Switchblade’s targets. He
said the drone is “designed for open threats, something that’s
on top of a building but you can’t hit it” with regular
artillery or mortars for fear of collateral damage. The drone is
less than 24 inches long and weighs about six pounds.  “It’s a ‘flying shotgun,’” Nichols said, not a “hit-to-
kill” weapon that explodes on impact.  “The operator has control of how far away from the target
it goes off -- preselected distances,” he said in an interview
Oct. 12 at the Association of the U.S. Army conference in
 Washington .  Into Shallow Caves  An Army fact sheet said the drone could be used against
snipers, insurgents placing roadside bombs and those hiding on
ridge lines, under rock overhangs and or in shallow caves.  Nichols said the first deployment laid the groundwork for
another fielding early next year. He declined to identify what
units requested the additional Switchblades.  Nichols said the Army is evaluating the results and may
pursue a larger program, which would be open to competition.  Other potential targets are moving vehicles that can be
tracked during the aircraft’s roughly 10 minutes of flight. It
covers up to 20 kilometers, flying at about 500 feet. “It’s
clearly not designed for armor,” he said.  Aerovironment announced at the AUSA convention a previous
$4.9 million Army contract. It didn’t disclose the drone’s prior
Afghanistan use.  Commando’s Drone  The Combined Forces Special Operations Command in October
2010 requested an additional 11 drones for use by Army and Air
Force commandos, saying the drone “enhances the small unit’s
ability to quickly identify and precisely engage combatants in
rugged terrain.”  Fielding additional so-called Lethal Miniature Aerial
Munitions “will enhance operations designed to deny insurgents
access to the Afghanistan population,” Army Special Forces
Colonel  Donald Bolduc  wrote in his previously undisclosed
October 2010 request.  Bolduc, in his “operational needs statement” obtained by
Bloomberg News, said recent operations “have demonstrated the
need for a lightweight, precision-guided aerial munitions system
to locate and neutralize enemy positions.”  Bolduc said the system will be used by small units of Army
and Air Force Special Operations Command personnel “operating
in complex urban terrain.”  Lethal Precision  The small size allows an individual to “carry, launch,
maneuver in all terrain, and engage stationary and fleeting
targets in the open or defending positions within building,
bunker or mountainous regions while minimizing collateral
damage.”  “Such positions are extremely difficult to neutralize”
and U.S. forces run a “high risk” of killing civilians with
current weapons such as the new MK47 “advanced lightweight
grenade launcher,” M3 Carl-Gustaf recoilless rifle and AT-4
rocket launcher, Bolduc wrote.  “Given rules of engagement and the constraints of urban
terrain, a lethal capability must be precise in order to
minimize collateral damage,” wrote Bolduc, who is now assistant
deputy director for special operations for the Joint Chiefs of
Staff at the Pentagon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  