-- 
Ford-UAW Deal Clears Path to Credit Upgrades Within Junk Status

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-10-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/uaw-edges-closer-to-ratifying-ford-labor-contract-as-key-plants-vote-yes.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s U.S. hourly workers
ratified a new four-year contract that probably will lead to
credit-rating upgrades. A return to investment-grade status may
still be a 2012 event.  Ford workers voted 63 percent in favor of the agreement in
balloting over the last two weeks, the United Auto Workers said
yesterday in a statement.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service have said they are reviewing their credit
ratings on the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker, which fell to
so-called junk status six years ago.  S&P may raise Ford two levels to BB+, the highest non-
investment-grade level, the New York-based ratings company said
in a Sept. 29 statement. It’s likely to assign a “stable”
outlook on Ford, which implies there is less than a one-third
chance that the company will be upgraded again within a year,
Robert Schulz, S&P’s auto analyst, said yesterday.  “The contract may have some pluses and minuses on the cost
side, but we think it generally is consistent with their ongoing
ability to stay profitable in  North America ,” Schulz said in an
interview in Birmingham, Michigan. “We haven’t really talked at
all about investment grade.”  Moody’s Investors Service said Oct. 5 it may raise Ford’s
credit rating from Ba2, two steps below investment grade,
pending the ratification of its agreement. Moody’s said it would
complete its reviews of Ford and GM simultaneously, and hasn’t
specified what the companies’ new ratings may be.  ‘On the Table’  “The possibility of an investment-grade rating is
certainly on the table,” Bruce Clark, the New York-based
analyst for Moody’s, said yesterday in a phone interview.
“We’re going to give that some consideration, but what’s going
to be the major hurdle is all of the uncertainty you’ve got in
Europe and to some degree the U.S.”  An investment-grade rating would substantially reduce
Ford’s borrowing costs, said  Mirko Mikelic , a senior  money
manager  at Fifth Third Asset Management, who helps oversee $13
billion of fixed-income assets in  Grand Rapids , Michigan.  “Investment grade will be a huge boon for their bonds
because it will make them eligible for investment-grade index”
funds, said Mikelic, who doesn’t own Ford debt. “People will
just pile back into the name when they go investment grade.”  Ford’s 7.45 percent bonds due July 2031 rose 1.625 cents to
116.5 cents on the dollar at 5:30 p.m. yesterday in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-pricing service of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Ford Dividend  The deal increases the likelihood Ford will begin paying a
dividend for the first time in five years,  Rod Lache , an analyst
with Deutsche Bank, wrote in an Oct. 17 note.  “This clears one of the final hurdles to the announcement
of a meaningful dividend at Ford in the relatively near
future,” wrote Lache, who is based in  New York .  Bloomberg analysts forecast a 5 cent dividend will be paid
in January. Ford shares fell 1.9 percent yesterday to $11.56.
They have dropped 31 percent this year after soaring 68 percent
in 2010.  Votes of approval at two large factories in  Kentucky  and
one in  Ohio  on Oct. 18 completed voting that began after the
Detroit-based UAW and Ford reached a tentative agreement Oct. 4.
The accord adds 12,000 jobs and gives each worker as much as
$10,000 in payments this year, according to the union.  “As the nation’s economy remains stalled and uncertain and
its employment rate stagnates, we were able to win an agreement
with Ford that will bring auto-manufacturing jobs back to the
 United States  from  China ,  Mexico  and  Japan ,” UAW President  Bob King  said in a statement. “The American  auto industry  is on its
way back.”  Vote Reversal  The final tally is a reversal of early opposition to the
deal, rejected by at least five factories last week. Ford is
offering $6.2 billion in factory upgrades in addition to the
bonus and profit-sharing payments and new jobs. It won’t give
raises to senior workers or restore cost-of-living pay increases
union members gave up to help Ford survive.  Ford has scheduled a call with analysts and reporters to
discuss the contract today at 8:30 a.m. New York time.  “This agreement is proof that by working together with our
UAW partners and local communities, we can significantly create
new jobs, invest in our plants and people, and make a very
positive impact on the  U.S. economy ,” Mark Fields, Ford’s
president of the Americas, said yesterday in a statement.  UAW Local 862 in Louisville, Kentucky, said Oct. 18 that
its members at two plants voted 53 percent in favor of the
agreement. The Louisville plants employ 5,397 workers who make
pickups and sport-utility vehicles. UAW Local 2000 said its
members voted 74 percent in favor. The UAW represents 40,600
Ford employees.  Worker Concessions  “A few people are saying we gave up monetary concessions
and other things that they’d like to see come back, and
rightfully so,” said Jerome Williams, president of UAW Local
2000, which represents workers who voted 999 to 346 in favor at
Ford’s Ohio van plant. “But the economic situation isn’t the
best right now.”  Four years ago, Ford workers voted 79 percent in favor of a
contract that included concessions such as a wage freeze for
senior workers and reduced pay for new hires. The 4-to-1 margin
of victory was the largest among the three U.S. automakers.  This year, the UAW negotiated U.S. auto contracts for
113,000 workers for the first time since  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Chrysler Group LLC went bankrupt in 2009. GM workers endorsed a
new deal last month and workers at Fiat SpA-controlled Chrysler
begin voting this week. Only workers at Ford, which avoided
Chapter 11, could strike in these talks because GM and Chrysler
employees agreed not to walk out as part of their U.S.-backed
bankruptcies.  Factory Investments  In Ford’s contract, the automaker promised investments
totaling $1.26 billion at the two Kentucky assembly plants.
Ford’s Kentucky truck plant will continue building the Super
Duty pickup and the Expedition and Lincoln Navigator SUVs. Ford
is adding a third shift of workers at the nearby Louisville
assembly plant to build a new version of its Escape small SUV.  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, earned $4.95
billion in the first half of the year, as fuel-efficient models
like the Fiesta subcompact attracted buyers. Ford’s U.S. light-
vehicle sales are up 11 percent this year through September,
ahead of the industrywide gain of 10 percent.  Ford earned $9.28 billion in the past two calendar years
after $30.1 billion in losses from 2006 through 2008. The
automaker borrowed $23.4 billion in late 2006, putting up all
major assets including its blue oval logo as collateral. That
helped Ford avoid the bankruptcies and bailouts that befell the
predecessors of GM and Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler.  Averts Strike  A strike at Ford would have cost the automaker $273 million
a day in lost revenue and $71 million in daily variable profit,
according to Brian Johnson, an analyst at  Barclays Capital . The
UAW has not had a nationwide walkout at Ford since 1976.  “Ford still has the highest per-hour cost, as Chrysler
started lower and GM likely benefits from greater skilled trades
attrition,” Johnson wrote in an Oct. 17 note, in which he
estimated the deal will add $70 million annually to Ford’s labor
costs.  Workers, while not entirely satisfied with the agreement,
realized it was better to get Ford back to full health and seek
to recover additional concessions in the future, said Williams,
the labor leader from Ohio.  “We’d like to keep Ford competitive and making money,” he
said. “Because the better Ford does, the better we’ll all do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  