-- 
UBS Trader to Show in Court for $2.3B Fraud

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-10-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/ubs-trader-may-enter-plea-in-u-k-court-hearing-on-2-3-billion-fraud-case.html
Kweku Adoboli, the trader accused of
costing  UBS AG (UBSN)  $2.3 billion by making unauthorized trades, will
go before a London judge and may enter a plea before his case is
transferred to a higher criminal court.  The 31-year-old will today make his third appearance at a
London magistrates court, which handles the charging of
suspects. Adoboli’s case is scheduled to be transferred today to
a Crown Court, which handles more complex criminal trials. He
may enter a plea at today’s hearing or indicate how he intends
to plead once the case is transferred.  Adoboli has been in custody since his arrest on Sept. 15,
when UBS asked London police to detain him after he reported the
losses. He was charged two days later with fraud and false
accounting dating back to 2008. His lawyers haven’t asked the
magistrate judge to release him on bail.  Adoboli, who holds a Ghanaian passport, faces as many as 10
years in prison, according to U.K. sentencing guidelines. Time
spent in custody beforehand would be deducted from any sentence.
He said through his lawyer at a hearing last month he was
“sorry beyond words” for his “disastrous miscalculations.”  The trading losses have led to the departures of UBS Chief
Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  and the co-heads of global
equities, Francois Gouws and Yassine Bouhara. “A number of
front office staff” have been suspended pending further
disciplinary action, Carsten Kengeter, head of the investment
bank, said in a memo to staff.  Delta One  Adoboli worked for UBS’s investment bank on its Delta One
desk, which handles trades for clients, typically helping them
to speculate on, or hedge the performance of, a basket of
securities. The group also trades using the bank’s own money.
UBS has said that no client positions were affected.  UBS’s alleged loss came from trading in Standard & Poor’s
500, DAX and EuroStoxx index futures, according to the Zurich-
based bank. The trades’ risk was masked by fictitious positions,
UBS said.  Adoboli “dishonestly abused” his position as a senior
trader on the global synthetic-equity desk “to make a gain”
for himself and “to expose UBS to a risk of loss,” prosecutors
said in court papers. He was “expected to safeguard, and not to
act against, the financial interest of UBS,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  