-- 
Mukherjee Signals India’s Inflation Reduces Scope to Cut Rates

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-10-19T12:03:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/mukherjee-signals-india-s-inflation-reduces-scope-to-cut-rates.html
India ’s inflation may be “under
pressure” until December and the central bank need not follow
the policy of reducing interest rates being pursued by some
counterparts abroad, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said.  “One need not come to the conclusion that one set of
prescriptions will be effective in another atmosphere and in
another situation,” Mukherjee told a press conference in New
Delhi today.  Policy makers across  Asia  have been shielding their
economies from  Europe ’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S.
recovery, with  Indonesia  cutting borrowing costs and  Singapore 
pledging to slow currency gains this month. Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said Oct. 12 that inflation must ease before India’s
central bank can start lowering  interest rates .  “When inflation is persistently high, the RBI will have to
stick to monetary tightening,” said  Dharmakirti Joshi , a
Mumbai-based economist at ratings company Crisil Ltd.
“Different countries have different sets of problems and India
is going through a serious inflation problem.”  He expects the Reserve Bank of India to raise its benchmark
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 8.5
percent in the Oct. 25 policy decision.  The yield on the 7.8 percent government securities due
April 2021 gained 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage points, to
8.78 percent at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai. The BSE India
Sensitive Index rose 2 percent and the rupee strengthened 0.3
percent to 49.1550 per dollar.  Inflation Trend  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate has stayed
above 9 percent since the start of December and was 9.72 percent
in September, according to the commerce ministry. Non-food
manufactured product inflation could be high in the next six
months due to “cost pressures,” the finance ministry said in a
report yesterday.  Subbarao has boosted the  Reserve Bank ’s benchmark rate by
350 basis points since mid-March 2010, the fastest round of
increases since the central bank was established in 1935,
Bloomberg data show.  The governor in July predicted inflation to ease to 7
percent by March 31. He forecast India’s economy will expand
about 8 percent in the fiscal year through March from 8.5
percent in the previous year.  India’s growth in the current fiscal year may be lower than
earlier estimates, Mukherjee said.  Early Resolution  He said an early resolution of the debt crisis in Europe
would be key for a stable global economy.  “In the G-20 ministers meet last week in Paris, we
impressed upon the euro zone finance ministers to fix the
solvency problem of euro zone countries by the Cannes Summit,”
Mukherjee said. “Additional resources for providing liquidity
could be thought of when the solvency issue of the euro zone
countries are assessed and addressed.” G-20 leaders will meet
in Cannes,  France , on Nov. 3-4.  Amid the global turmoil, Mukherjee said India is sticking
to its target of raising 400 billion rupees ($8.1 billion) in
the current fiscal year from sale of equity stakes in state-run
companies.  Still, the minister said high crude oil prices may boost
fuel subsidies and make the goal of narrowing the  budget deficit 
to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product by March 31 a
“challenge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  