-- 
Tunisia Credit Growth Spurs Economic Recovery Ahead of Vote: Arab Credit

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-10-20T08:09:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/tunisia-credit-growth-spurs-recovery-ahead-of-vote-arab-credit.html
Tunisia , the birth place of the so-
called Arab Spring, may stage a faster economic recovery than
other countries that witnessed uprisings in the region this
year, helped by a surge in bank lending.  Tunisians head to the polls on Oct. 23 to elect an assembly
that will write a new constitution after the revolt that toppled
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January. The new government
may encourage banks to boost lending to support growth, said
Chokri Jaoua, head of operational management at Banque
Internationale Arabe de Tunisie, the country’s biggest publicly
traded bank known as BIAT.  The central bank’s decision to cut its key  interest rate 
twice and slash  reserve requirements  helped credit grow 10.5
percent in the first nine months of 2011. Egyptian bank credit
expanded 3.8 percent in the first seven months, central bank
data show, as a breakdown in security and sectarian clashes led
companies to scale back expansion plans. In Bahrain, credit will
rise 1 percent this year, according to  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   “We expect activity to continue improving in the coming
months particularly if the elections and the political
transition thereafter take place in a smooth manner,” said Alia Moubayed, London-based senior economist at  Barclays Capital .
“The latest economic indicators actually point out that most
sectors have started showing signs of recovery and growth, or at
least the pace of deterioration has slowed significantly.”  Declining Yield  The yield on the central bank’s 4.5 percent euro bond due
June 2020 declined 20 basis points, or 0.20 of a percentage
point, this month to 5.47 percent today. Tunisia’s default risk
tumbled 46 basis points since this year’s peak on Sept. 26 to
244 today, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by  CME
Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted in the privately
negotiated market. Egypt’s credit default swaps were at 447
basis points, the data show.  Tunisia’s economic expansion, which may grind to a halt
this year, will grow 4 percent in 2012 and 5.2 percent in 2013,
more than any other Arab country that experienced uprisings
including Egypt, Syria and Bahrain, International Monetary Fund
forecasts show. Industrial exports such as food, auto parts and
textiles grew 9.3 percent in the first nine months of 2011,
Hichem Elloumi, spokesman for the Tunis-based Tunisian Industry
and Trade Association, said in a telephone interview on Oct. 18.  Reliance on Agriculture  Tunisia’s economy relies on agriculture, exports, tourism
and mining for growth. Harvest for cereals may almost double
after “excellent rainfall”, Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce, Dubai-
based senior Middle East and North Africa economist at Standard
Chartered Plc, said in an e-mailed report.  “The Tunisian economy is built on the right foundations
and that’s why it’s able to grow despite the crisis,” Bilel Ben
Dhifallah, who teaches economics at Tunis University, said in a
telephone interview on Oct. 18. “There’s demand from the
private sector for financing.”  The return on average equity for shareholders of the Tunis-
based BIAT may increase to 12.3 percent in 2011 from 9.5 percent
at the end of last year, Jaoua said in an e-mailed response to
questions. The ratio of non-performing loans to gross loans may
fall to 7.6 percent this year from 8.2 percent in 2010, he said.  The shares of the bank jumped 36 percent in the quarter
that ended Sept. 30, compared with an 8.6 percent advance for
Tunisia’s benchmark stock index. By contrast,  Egypt ’s EGX 30
retreated 23 percent in the period.  New Constitution  The assembly Tunisians will create in the country’s first-
ever free vote will be charged with writing a constitution,
leading to another round of elections in a year.  Bank lending “virtually froze” in January and February as
the aftermath of the revolt caused a “severe” disruption on
business activities and tourism, said Nicolas Charnay, a Dubai-
based associate analyst at Moody’s Investors Service.  The conflict in neighboring  Libya , where rebels stormed the
capital Tripoli in August after a six-month armed struggle to
end Muammar Qaddafi’s role, has caused a 50 percent plunge in
tourism revenue in Tunisia this year, Central Bank Governor
Mustapha Kamel Nabli said in  Washington  last month.  Four Tunisian banks --  Amen Bank (AB) ,  Banque de Tunisie (BT) , BIAT
and  Societe Tunisienne de Banque (STB)  -- had their credit worthiness
cut by Moody’s Investors Service in August, seven months after
the rating company cut the government’s credit rating one level
to Baa3, the lowest investment grade.  While noting the surge in bank lending, Moody’s remains
“cautious on the evolution of the Tunisian economy in 2011 and
2012,” Charnay said in an e-mailed response to questions on
Oct. 18. “Also, the quality of the loans booked after the
revolution remains to be tested.”  Still, some foreign investors are upbeat about the
prospects of Tunisia’s economy.  Albaraka Banking Group (BARKA) , an
Islamic bank based in Bahrain, plans to double the number of its
branches in Tunisia to 20 by 2015, Chief Executive Officer Adnan Ahmed Yousif said.  For BIAT bank’s Jaoua, the election also represents an
opportunity. The government will try to create jobs and
“encourage banks to finance the Tunisian companies and in
general to support the national economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  