-- 
Gul Vows Turkey Revenge After PKK Attack Kills 26 Soldiers

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-10-19T18:03:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/turkey-s-gul-vows-fight-to-very-end-after-pkk-attack-kills-24.html
Turkey ’s President  Abdullah Gul 
promised “revenge” after the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK,
killed at least 26 soldiers in the southeast in its most deadly
attack this year.  The four-hour assault early today took place in eight
locations in the Yuksekova and Cukurca districts of Hakkari
province, NTV news channel reported. The PKK, listed as a
terrorist group by Turkey, the U.S. and the European Union, also
wounded 18 soldiers, some of whom are in critical condition.  “No one should forget that those who are inflicting this
pain upon us will suffer in multitudes,” Gul said in televised
remarks. “Those who think they can shake our state with these
attacks and bring it into line will see that the revenge for
these attacks will be much larger and exacted in multitudes.”  At least 190 people including PKK members, police officers
and soldiers have been killed since the organization ended a
unilateral cease-fire in February, according to military and
government reports. Turkish troops crossed into Iraq to chase
militants suspects of carrying out the attack, NTV reported.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  condemned the “outrageous”
attack and said the U.S. will “continue our strong cooperation
with the Turkish government as it works to defeat the terrorist
threat from the PKK.” State Department spokesman Mark Toner
said the U.S. will seek to increase counter-terrorism
cooperation with Turkey.  Attacks Increasing  PKK attacks have been rising since June, when Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  won a third term with 50 percent
of the vote. He campaigned on a pledge to rewrite the
constitution adopted after a 1980 military coup.  Today’s coordinated attack coincided with the first day of
talks by a 12-member commission created to work on a new
charter. The four parties in the national assembly, including
the pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party, are represented
equally in the commission.  “There’s no turning back from this path, regardless of how
difficult our work gets due to these developments,” Speaker of
Parliament Cemil Cicek said today. “We will curse these events
with one hand, yet with the other we will work together with
great effort to deliver this charter.”  Erdogan canceled a trip today to  Kazakhstan  and is
discussing the attack with members of his cabinet, including
Interior Minister Idris Naim Sahin and Defense Minister Ismet
Yilmaz, as well as military commanders, according to the state-
run Anatolia news agency.  Official Travel Canceled  Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  and Finance Minister
Mehmet Simsek are among government officials who canceled travel
plans abroad.  “The state’s decision is to combat terrorism to the very
end without ever compromising and with determination,” Gul
said.  Turkey, which has the second-largest army in the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization, has fought the autonomy-seeking
Kurdish group for more than two decades in a conflict that has
cost more than 40,000 lives.  The fighting between Turkey and the PKK comes after efforts
by Erdogan to increase rights for the nation’s Kurds. Political
tensions, though, have escalated since the elections on June 12,
when the courts barred several pro-Kurdish candidates from
entering parliament, culminating in a declaration of Kurdish
autonomy in July.  Roadside Bomb  The PKK killed nine people, including five policemen, in a
roadside bomb attack yesterday. The organization killed 13
soldiers in an ambush at the southeastern province of Diyarbakir
on July 14, which coincided with pro-Kurdish politicians’
declaration of autonomy. That was followed by an attack in
Hakkari that killed 10 soldiers and a state-employed militiaman.  Senior generals are traveling to the region and forces will
do “everything they can to put an end to this business,” Gul
said.  The PKK members entered Turkey from northern  Iraq  and are
returning to their camps, NTV reported. Turkey’s military is
targeting the region with artillery and warplanes, aiming to
trap PKK members en route to Iraq, according to the news
channel. Jets also struck PKK targets in northern Iraq and land
forces pushed across the border, NTV said.  “If their calculation is that they are making political
gains with terrorist attacks, they’re making a historic
mistake,” Gul said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  