-- 
Turkish Central Bank Won’t Shore Up Lira With Rates, Survey Says

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-10-19T09:57:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/turkish-central-bank-won-t-shore-up-lira-with-rates-survey-says.html
Turkey’s central bank is unlikely to
raise  interest rates  to support the lira, even as the currency’s
slide threatens to drive inflation further above its target.  The bank will probably hold the one-week repo rate at a
historic low of 5.75 percent, according to all 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank will announce its decision at 2
p.m. in Ankara tomorrow.  Governor Erdem Basci is battling to end the slump in the
lira that he helped initiate. Basci cut the benchmark by half a
point on Aug. 4, saying European debt problems pose a risk to
growth. The lira has fallen 6 percent against the dollar since
then, adding to a surge in inflation from tax increases. The
bank spent more than $1 billion yesterday trying to arrest the
currency’s fall.  “They’ll try to exhaust everything they have before they
start with defensive rate hikes,”  Neil Shearing , senior
emerging-market analyst at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London ,
said in a telephone interview. “Inflation is not the issue, for
the bank it’s about counter-balancing the risks to growth.”  The bank has used up about 10 percent of its foreign
currency reserves since July selling dollars to stem the lira’s
decline. Yesterday it intervened directly in markets for the
first time since 2006, hours after selling $750 million in an
auction. Reserves were $85.1 billion on Oct. 7, according to
central bank data.  The lira has slid 16 percent against the dollar this year,
the worst performance among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Turkey’s record current-account deficit,
equal to about 10 percent of gross domestic product, and concern
over the spreading European debt crisis have dented investor
confidence.  Alcohol, Tobacco Taxes  The currency’s decline has made imported goods more
expensive. Higher natural-gas tariffs and taxes on cars, phones,
alcohol and tobacco announced this month will push prices
higher. Inflation was 6.2 percent in September and is likely to
“significantly” exceed this year’s 5.5 percent target, the
bank said on Oct. 4. The increase will prove temporary and the 5
percent goal for 2012 can be reached, it said.  Yields on benchmark two-year lira bonds have risen to 8.6
percent, from about 8 percent at the start of September, on
expectations of higher inflation.  Turkey ’s economy is slowing after expanding an annual 8.8
percent in the second quarter. The government expects growth of
7.5 percent this year and 4 percent in 2012. The International
Monetary Fund’s forecast for 2012 is 2.5 percent.  ‘Surprise Instruments’  Inflation is a secondary concern for the central bank,
which is more focused on shoring up growth and narrowing the
current account gap, said Ibrahim Aksoy, an economist at Seker
Securities in Istanbul. It will probably use tools other than
interest rates, he said.  “They may opt to lower the reserve requirement for foreign
currency,” Aksoy said. “The bank has been very creative since
November and they’ve told us that they have ‘surprise
instruments’ that they might use.”  The bank currently obliges lenders to set aside as much as
11 percent of foreign-currency liabilities as reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  