-- 
Vale Says No Reason to Abandon Quarterly Price Contracts

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-10-19T20:34:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/vale-says-no-reason-for-structural-changes-in-pricing-system.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s biggest iron-
ore producer, said it sees no reason to change its quarterly
contract system after prices for the steelmaking material
dropped to the lowest level in more than a year. Shares fell to
their lowest in almost two months.  Vale considers the quarterly pricing system “the most
appropriate methodology” for the iron-ore market at the moment,
the Rio de Janeiro-based company said in an e-mailed statement
today. The company said it’s able to adapt to client needs and
is willing to work with them on solving issues.  “Vale is always open to discuss and negotiate with its
clients solutions that could bring mutual benefits, never aiming
to take short term opportunistic benefits, but rather being
guided by the concept of a sustainable long term relationship,”
the company said in the statement.  Vale’s preferred stock fell 2.9 percent to 37.69 reais in
 Sao Paulo  today, its lowest close since Aug. 22. The stock
dropped about 20 percent during 2011, less than the 21 percent
decline at  Brazil ’s benchmark Bovespa Index.  Iron-ore prices for immediate delivery fell about 17
percent in the past month on concern the expansion in  China , the
biggest consumer of the raw material, may slow on  Europe ’s debt
crisis and tighter monetary policies. Prices on the so-called
spot market are below those in quarterly contracts, fueling
speculation Chinese steelmakers are seeking discounts.  The price of ore with 62 percent iron content delivered to
the Chinese port of Tianjin declined 1.7 percent to $147.70 a
metric ton today, its eighth-consecutive drop and lowest level
in more than a year, according to The Steel Index Ltd.  ‘Willing to Accommodate’  The fundamentals for the metals and mining industry remain
“solid in the medium to long run,” Vale said in the statement.
“There is no reason for structural changes in the prevailing
pricing system.”  Vale is “willing to accommodate” provisional pricing of
the steelmaking ingredient on requests from Chinese clients,  UBS
AG (UBSN)  said in a report to clients, citing conversations with the
company.  The aim is to remove a lag between quarterly contracts and
current spot prices, Rene Kleyweg, an analyst at the bank in
 London , said in a note to clients dated yesterday. Vale isn’t
offering clients an option to switch to spot prices from
contract prices, the analyst said, adding that the revision
would reflect the quarter’s average spot price, “not that for
any given day.”  “Vale is leading this move as, for the time being, it
remains the most vulnerable to losing volumes,” Kleyweg said in
the report. “Lead times on its deliveries are longer, allowing
clients to delay decisions on Australian material for longer
than with Vale.”  Market Conditions  Vale may consider changing the pricing on some contracts
for the steel-making raw material, Chief Executive Officer
Murilo Ferreira told reporters in Brasilia yesterday. The
company is currently maintaining its quarterly pricing formula
and has “no desire” to sell on the  spot market , he said.  “If anyone wants to buy under different conditions, we can
discuss it,” Ferreira said. “We adjust according to the market
conditions at the moment.”  Vale’s iron-ore contracts are based on a three-month
average of price indexes for the period ending a month before
the onset of the new quarter. The company, which is scheduled to
announce third-quarter earnings on Oct. 26, sold about 42
percent of its iron ore and pellets to Chinese customers during
the second quarter, company filings show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  