-- 
Van Rompuy Seeks German, ECB Flexibility in Crisis Response

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-10-19T15:43:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/van-rompuy-seeks-german-ecb-flexibility-in-crisis-response.html
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  praised Europe’s top central banker for crisis-fighting
flexibility and indicated that richer countries like Germany
must make concessions to keep the euro sound.  Van Rompuy hailed  Jean-Claude Trichet , nearing the end of
his term running the  European Central Bank , for daring to use
unorthodox policies to rescue the 17-nation currency union.  “What he did was necessary to save the euro as such,” Van
Rompuy said at Trichet’s retirement sendoff in Frankfurt today.  Four days before a euro crisis summit, Van Rompuy said a
better-managed euro region will require sacrifices by all
countries, not only by poorer ones like Greece that are
struggling with oversized debts.  Europe needs more fiscal discipline and integration “not
just to punish the sinners, but to link our policies,”  Van
Rompuy  said. “That implies a loss of sovereignty for everyone,
not only for countries in trouble.”  Van Rompuy also questioned the euro area’s “dangerous”
need for unanimity on key decisions, without outlining
alternatives.  Speaking in the heartland of central bank independence, the
EU president hailed Trichet for an undogmatic grasp of the ECB’s
rights and duties. He said the French central banker virtually
took on the above-the-fray role of a constitutional monarch.  “Independence doesn’t mean detachment from political
decision-making,” Van Rompuy said. Trichet “perfectly
understood this aspect of a central banker’s role, in the grand
tradition of the French civil service.”  While calling for “unconventional measures that break the
mold of economics textbooks,” Van Rompuy gave no indication how
the Oct. 23 summit will address  Greece , the euro rescue fund or
support for banks.  Trichet, 68, leaves the ECB Oct. 31 after an eight-year
term. He will be succeeded by Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi , 64.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  