-- 
Vietnam Central Bank Vows to Help Lenders Facing Cash Crunch

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-19T06:26:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/vietnam-central-bank-vows-to-help-lenders-facing-cash-crunch-1-.html
The State Bank of Vietnam  pledged to
ensure sufficient funds at banks, seeking to bolster the
financial system as the government unveiled a target to boost
growth to as much as 7 percent.  The central bank will “closely watch the local money
market and commercial banks’ operations to provide suitable and
timely support to any financial institutions which have a
shortage of funds, aiming to ensure liquidity for the entire
banking system,” the central bank said in a statement on its
website late yesterday.  Vietnam has struggled to regain investor confidence hurt by
risks in the banking industry and inflation of more than 20
percent. The nation aims for average annual growth of 6.5
percent to 7 percent in the 2011-2015 period, the National
Assembly said in a report released to reporters in Hanoi today.  “The central bank’s move will help calm the market after
some concerns about fund availabilities at small banks,” said
Phan Thi Chinh, deputy chief executive officer at the Bank for
Investment and Development of  Vietnam . “It’s getting more
difficult now for small banks to lure depositors given the
current economic situation.”  The dong slid 0.05 percent to 20,938 per dollar as of 12:25
p.m. in Hanoi, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was
the weakest level since at least 1993, according to Bloomberg
data that’s available from that year. Vietnam’s VN Index of
stocks dropped 0.8 percent to 401.15, an eight-week low. The
gauge has plunged 17.2 percent this year.  Inflation Target  Vietnam’s economy may expand 5.8 percent to 6 percent this
year, slower than the 6.8 percent gain in 2010, according to
government estimates. Consumer prices climbed 22.42 percent in
September from a year earlier, compared with 23.02 percent in
August.  Policy makers plan to slow annual inflation to between 5
percent and 7 percent in 2015, according to the  National
Assembly ’s document. They aim to limit Vietnam’s trade deficit
to below 10 percent of total exports in 2012, according to the
document. These targets are subject to review and require final
approval by lawmakers in meetings starting tomorrow.  There are some commercial banks that “have had imbalances
between fund sources and the use of funds,” the central bank
said in its statement. “The  State Bank  is willing and ready to
help the banks” to ensure the currency market’s operations,
protect depositors and the safety of each bank, it said.  Fund Infusion  The State Bank may provide as much as 15 trillion dong
($716 million) to help small banks that have insufficient
capital, Lao Dong newspaper reported on Sept. 5, citing an
unidentified central bank official. About 10 banks may receive
funds, and the central bank would require collateral or take a
stake in banks that can’t provide the collateral,  Lao Dong  said,
without naming any lenders.  “We are outlining some measures to help small banks,”
Nguyen Toan Thang, a Hanoi-based deputy governor for the central
bank, said by telephone on Sept. 5. He declined to confirm the
details of the Lao Dong report.  The economy is vulnerable to systemic risk resulting in
part from undercapitalized banks, rising debt and deteriorating
corporate profits,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said Aug. 29.  Merging banks is currently an “inevitable trend” to
enhance competitiveness, the central bank said in a separate
statement late yesterday. In the 2011-2015 period,
“strengthening, reorganizing and restructuring the banking
system is an urgent task for the banking industry,” the State
Bank said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  