-- 
Vietnam Dong Drops to Record Low on Trade Deficit, Gold Imports

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-19T09:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/vietnam-dong-drops-to-record-low-on-trade-deficit-gold-imports.html
Vietnam ’s dong fell to a record low
on speculation a widening trade deficit and increased gold
imports have bolstered demand for dollars.  Government bonds 
declined.  The trade deficit jumped to $1 billion last month from a
revised $396 million in August, government data show. Vietnam
has imported $1.5 billion of gold in the January through
September period, Tien Phong newspaper reported Oct. 4, citing
the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The country imported about
$600 million of gold in September alone, according to the report.  “I expect the balance of payments to bear the consequences
of the  State Bank  of Vietnam’s decision to increase the gold-
import quota,” Francois Chavasseau, head of fixed-income
research at Sacombank Securities Joint-Stock Co. in  Ho Chi Minh
City , wrote in an e-mail to Bloomberg. “A higher trade deficit
combined with dwindling foreign-exchange reserves is putting
more pressure on the dong.”  The dong slid 0.1 percent to 20,938 per dollar as of 4:05
p.m. in Hanoi, the weakest level since Bloomberg began
collecting data on it in 1993. The State Bank of Vietnam set the
daily  reference rate  0.05 percent weaker at 20,733 per dollar,
the ninth time this month it fixed a lower level, according to
its website. The currency is allowed to trade up to 1 percent on
either side of the fixing.  People are moving away from the dong after the central bank
forced banks to strictly comply with dong-deposit interest-rate
caps and businesses are starting “to rush to unwind their
dollar loans,” also putting pressure on the local currency,
Chavasseau said.  The yield on the government’s five-year bonds rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 12.41 percent,
according to a daily fixing price from banks compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 