-- 
Volcker Rule Enforcement May Come After the Fact, Bingham Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-10-19T15:53:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/volcker-rule-enforcement-may-come-after-the-fact-bingham-says.html
Regulators may have to enforce
restrictions on financial firms engaging in proprietary trading
after transactions are completed, creating confusion for banks,
according to a summary of the proposed Volcker rule by Bingham
McCutchen LLP.  “This lack of a ‘bright line’ creates a significant degree
of uncertainty for the financial community that may only be
clarified once the regulators have had the opportunity to apply
the proposed regulations,” the Boston-based law firm said in
the Oct. 18  summary  of the Volcker rule. The lack of clarity is
“raising the potential danger of rule interpretation through
enforcement.”  The rule, named for former  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Paul Volcker , was part of last year’s Dodd-Frank Act financial
markets overhaul to rein in risky trading by firms whose
customer deposits are federally insured. Banks are growing
concerned that it will sometimes prove impossible to distinguish
between proprietary transactions and trading done for the
benefit of clients.  The regulators who drafted the proposal -- the Federal
Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, and Securities and Exchange
Commission -- conceded that telling the difference between a
trade made for the bank’s own account and on behalf of a
customer is hard.  “Although the purpose and function of these two activities
are markedly different - market making-related activities
provide intermediation and liquidity services to customers,
while proprietary trading involves the generation of profit
through speculative risk-taking - clearly distinguishing these
activities may be difficult in practice,” the draft proposal
said.  Market Concern  Lawmakers who crafted Dodd-Frank exempted market making
from the Volcker rule, along with certain forms of hedging and
underwriting, because of concern that banning all proprietary
trading could bring some activities to a halt.  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  serve as market
makers when they accept risk to facilitate client orders.  Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Morgan Stanley have already shut or plan to spin off
proprietary trading units.  The proposal allows trading for meeting the near-term needs
of clients. Banks must have compliance, record keeping and
monitoring programs to identify and root out speculation
designed to profit from price changes which will no longer be
permitted, the agencies said. In contrast, so-called “bona
fide” market making supplies liquidity to clients and generates
revenue mainly through fees, commissions and the difference
between buy and sell prices.  The proposal was released on Oct. 11. The public can
comment until Jan. 13. A final version is slated to take effect
on July 21, 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 