-- 
Votorantim, Camargo Said to Be in Talks to Buy Rest of Cement Maker Cimpor

-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 
2011-10-20T16:06:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/votorantim-camargo-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-rest-of-cement-maker-cimpor.html
Brazilian holding companies
Votorantim Participacoes SA and Camargo Correa SA are in
talks to buy a remaining stake in cement maker  Cimpor-Cimentos
de Portugal SGPS SA (CPR) , said two people familiar with the
negotiations.  Camargo plans to take over Cimpor’s operations in  Brazil ,
while Votorantim would consolidate assets of the Lisbon-based
company outside of Brazil, said one of the people, who declined
to be identified because the transaction is private. The Sao
Paulo-based companies already own about 54 percent of Cimpor,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The value of the remaining stake is about 1.5 billion euros
($2.1 billion) based on Cimpor’s Oct. 19 closing share price.
Votorantim and Camargo acquired control of the Portuguese cement
maker in February 2010 after beating an offer from Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA.  Cimpor shares climbed 4.4 percent in Lisbon trading to
close at 5.21 euros, their biggest one-day gain since Dec. 2.
Cimpor has gained 2.8 percent this year, compared with a 21
percent decline for  Portugal ’s benchmark stock  PSI-20 index. (PSI20)   “Investors who hold Cimpor shares are expecting a higher
price if there is a takeover and those who don’t own Cimpor
shares will probably like to buy some,” said Juan Dieste, a
trader at Orey iTrade in Lisbon.  Largest Investors  Cimpor’s biggest shareholders after Camargo and Votorantim
are Manuel Fino SGPS SA, with a 10.7 percent stake, Banco
Comercial Portugues SA’s employee pension fund, with 10 percent,
and Caixa Geral de Depositos, with 9.6 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  In February, Brazil’s  Finance Ministry  recommended that the
antitrust agency approve Votorantim and Camargo’s stakes in
Cimpor with some restrictions, including the sale of some
assets.  The talks with Cimpor shareholders could break down and
there is no guarantee a deal will be reached.  Mafalda Correia, a spokeswoman for Cimpor, declined to
comment. An official for Votorantim declined to comment.  Camargo Correa said in a statement distributed today by
Portuguese public relations firm Imago that there’s no change on
its position in Cimpor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  