-- 
Walgreen Wins Ruling in Contract Fight With Express Scripts

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-10-19T18:31:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/walgreen-wins-ruling-in-contract-fight-with-express-scripts-1-.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG)  said it won a ruling in
its contract dispute with  Express Scripts  Inc. when an
arbitrator refused to order the drug chain to stop making
allegedly false and misleading statements.  Both sides declined to elaborate on the order that Express
Scripts was seeking, and the arbitration is private.  In a lawsuit against Walgreen that was later sent to
arbitration, Express Scripts accused the chain of distributing
“a wave of marketing and promotional materials which disparage
Express Scripts and falsely state that, after Dec. 31, 2011,
Walgreens will be unable to fill prescriptions for Express
Scripts members.”  “This is false and highly misleading because nothing will
prohibit Walgreens from continuing to fill valid prescriptions
for such members after Dec. 31, 2011, even if Walgreens is not a
part of Express Scripts’ pharmacy network,” the company said in
the complaint.  Express Scripts manages pharmacy benefit programs for
private employers, unions and government health plans. Walgreen
fills prescriptions for about 2.5 million Express Scripts’
Medicare Part D participants, according to the federal court
complaint, filed last month. The contract expires at the end of
this year.  Negotiations Stopped  The drugstore chain terminated renewal negotiations and
“launched an aggressive campaign to disparage Express Scripts”
and promote other programs, the company alleged in its
complaint.  Walgreen, based in Deerfield,  Illinois , the largest U.S.
drugstore chain, said today in a statement that the arbitrator
“issued a ruling denying the parties’ requests for preliminary
injunctive relief.”  “The arbitrator will consider the underlying merits of the
parties’ claims at a future date,” Walgreen said.  The arbitration proceedings and the arbitrator’s Oct. 16
ruling are confidential, Walgreen lawyer Peter Bensinger said
today in a telephone interview.  “The communications that were at issue, as reflected in
the public complaint, have been dealt with and are not
enjoined,” Bensinger said.  Brian Henry , an Express Scripts spokesman, declined to
comment on the ruling.  “We still think that Walgreens has crossed a line by
putting our clients’ employees and members in the middle of our
dispute and is not negotiating in good faith to resolve our
differences,” he said by e-mail.  The case is  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  v. Walgreen Co., 1:11-cv-
06223, U.S. District court, Northern District of Illinois
( Chicago ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  