-- 
Wall Street Panic Turns $3 Million ‘Margin Call’ Into Thriller

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-10-19T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/wall-street-panic-turns-3-million-margin-call-into-thriller.html
J.C. Chandor, writer and director of
the new Wall Street thriller “Margin Call,” got an early
warning about the looming financial crisis.  In 2006, Chandor and several business partners were
converting a  New York  City commercial building into apartments.
Midway through the project, the godfather of one of his
associates -- a former investment banker who had started a real-
estate hedge fund -- told them to sell as quickly as possible.  “He was already walking away from big real-estate deals
because he saw what was coming,” Chandor, 37, said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.  Chandor, then a TV-commercial director seeking to break
into feature films, took the advice and broke even. He
remembered that moment during the financial meltdown in November
2008, when in a four-day creative burst he wrote a script about
an investment firm fighting for survival.  “The crisis was happening while I was writing,” said
Chandor, whose boyish face and long, thick hair make him look
like a graduate student. “I wanted you to feel like you were
right in the middle of it.”  “ Margin Call ,” which opens Friday in the U.S., covers 24
roller-coaster hours as the investment firm tries to stave off
financial ruin. The film follows a wide range of characters in
the corporate food chain, ranging from the young numbers whiz
(Zachary Quinto) and rah-rah sales boss ( Kevin Spacey ) to the
hard-nosed risk officer ( Demi Moore ) and enigmatic chief
executive officer (Jeremy Irons).  Big-Name Cast  So how did a first-time director with a minuscule $3
million budget manage to attract an impressive cast that also
includes Stanley Tucci, Simon Baker,  Paul Bettany  and Penn
Badgley?  “I think it was mainly the story,” Chandor said. “And
also the fact that I wasn’t asking them for a big time
commitment. We shot it in 17 days, all in New York. So they
could do it quickly and then get back to whatever else they were
doing.”  Though Chandor never worked on Wall Street, his dad was an
investment banker at Merrill Lynch for almost 40 years.  “I grew up around that world and I absorbed a lot of it,”
he said. “I also had a lot of friends who worked on  Wall
Street , so I picked up stuff from them too.”  The Occupy Wall Street demonstrations currently taking
place in New York and other cities around the world have cast an
unfavorable spotlight on the masters of the financial universe.  ‘Gaping Wound’  In “Margin Call,” however, the characters aren’t neatly
divided into heroes and villains.  “I didn’t want to demonize a whole group,” Chandor said.
“There are good people and bad people on Wall Street, just like
everywhere else. But I think the financial crisis was the result
of a bad system more than bad individuals.”  Spacey agrees.  “When you point the finger at individuals, you lose sight
of the larger problem -- that the system is out of whack,” he
said during a joint interview with Bettany. “Looking back to
2008, it’s pretty clear that we put a Band-Aid on a gaping wound
that is still bleeding.”  Bettany, a U.K. native now living in New York, said he
sympathizes with the Occupy Wall Street movement.  “You don’t need a Ph.D. in economics to realize you’ve
been taking it in the seat,” he said.  The movie has already paid off for Chandor, who lives in a
New York suburb with his wife and two young children.  He has a two-picture writing deal with  Warner Bros . -- the
first script is an international thriller that may star  Leonardo DiCaprio  -- and is preparing to direct his second film, which he
describes as a “one-man story that’s not dialogue-driven.”  “I feel very lucky,” Chandor said. “I’m doing something
I love and getting paid for it.”  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 