-- 
Wells Fargo Challenged by Durbin Over New Debit-Card Fee

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-10-19T21:08:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/wells-fargo-challenged-by-durbin-over-debit-card-fee-correct-.html
U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin 
challenged  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s decision to charge new fees to
debit-card customers, citing the record quarterly profit
reported by the bank this week.  In a letter to John G. Stumpf, Wells Fargo’s chairman and
chief executive officer, Durbin faulted the San Francisco-based
bank for imposing a $3 monthly fee for debit-card users in five
states in response to Federal Reserve rules capping the amount
lenders can charge retailers for processing transactions.  “It is disingenuous for banks to claim they are somehow
entitled to make up reductions to a revenue stream that they
never would have received in the first place in a transparent
and competitive market,” Durbin, an Illinois Democrat, wrote in
the letter dated today.  Lisa Westermann, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, didn’t have an
immediate comment on Durbin’s letter.  Wells Fargo joined rivals including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and Atlanta-based  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  in increasing customer
fees to make up some of the revenue big banks may lose under the
caps, a loss that could total more than $8 billion, according to
Bloomberg Government data. Durbin, who pushed to require the
caps as part of the Dodd-Frank Act, said in his letter that
Wells Fargo’s decision was surprising in light of negative
response to a similar move by  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America.  The Fed rule implemented on Oct. 1 limits fees that card
networks charge merchants to 21 cents per transaction -- about
half the average retailers have paid in the past.  Revenue Decline  Wells Fargo shares fell 8.4 percent on Oct. 17 after the
company reported record profit of $4.06 billion for the third
quarter as investors focused on a 6 percent decline in revenue
from the year-earlier quarter. The third quarter ended Sept. 30,
the day before the Fed caps took effect.  Shares fell 68 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $25.18 at the
close in  New York  today.  The letter to Stumpf was Durbin’s second to a bank CEO this
month. The Senate’s No. 2 Democrat challenged Bank of America
CEO Brian Moynihan in an Oct. 3 letter over a decision to charge
some debit-card customers a $5 monthly fee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  