-- 
Western Digital Says Thai Flooding To Cut Sales, Result in Quarterly Loss

-- B y   X u   W a n g
-- 
2011-10-19T23:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/western-digital-falls-on-concern-flooding-in-thailand-may-hurt-sales.html
Western Digital Corp. (WDC) , a maker of
disk drives and networking products, expects a loss this quarter
and forecast sales below analysts’ predictions as the worst
flooding in five decades in  Thailand  hobbles production.  Excluding certain costs, the company will have a per-share
loss of $1.10 to $1.50 in the fiscal second quarter, which ends
in December, Western Digital said yesterday on a conference
call. Sales will be $1.05 billion to $1.25 billion in the
period. Analysts projected profit of $1.04 per share on revenue 
of $2.58 billion, the average estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Western Digital has shut two factories in Thailand, joining
such companies as Honda Motor Co. and Canon Inc. that have
closed about 1,000 facilities in the Asian nation ravaged by
rising waters. It may take several quarters for  Irvine ,
California-based Western Digital to resume normal production,
Chief Executive Officer John Coyne said on the call.  “This is a disaster of unprecedented scale,” Coyne said on
the call. “Full recovery will be a multi-quarter challenge.”  Western Digital may see exports from Thailand slide as much
as 40 percent to 120 billion baht ($3.9 billion), Wannarat Charnnukul, the country’s industry minister, told reporters
after meeting with company executives on Oct. 18.  The stock fell 5.9 percent in late trading yesterday. That
extended an earlier 9 percent slump to $24.44 at the close in
New York, for the biggest decline since Jan. 22, 2010.  Supply Chain Disruptions  Western Digital, which counts Hewlett-Packard Co.,  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  and Acer Inc. among its customers, relies on its plants in
Thailand for 60 percent of production, Wannarat said.  It may take the company between four and six months to
resume full production, cutting Western Digital’s exports from
Thailand by 80 billion baht, from 200 billion baht last year,
the minister said. The company has a 33 percent share of the
global hard-disk drive market, according to Wannarat.  Other electronics makers are being affected by the
flooding.  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  said on Oct. 12 that while all
of its factories in Thailand are operating, the supply chain for
the components that go into hard disk drives is being disrupted.  Together, Western Digital and Seagate account for about 64
percent of all hard disk drives globally, according to supply
chain analysis by Bloomberg.  Seagate slipped 0.4 percent to $12.05.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Xu Wang in  New York  at 
 xwang206@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  