-- 
Whistleblowers Murdered in India Show Fatal Hazard of Exposing Corruption

-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-10-19T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/whistleblowers-face-deadly-hazards-in-india.html
The shooter managed with one bullet
what dozens of threats had failed to do: silence Shehla Masood.  The 38-year-old businesswoman in the central Indian city of
Bhopal had used  India ’s Right to Information Act to expose local
corruption after she kept losing on government contracts. She
died from a gunshot on Aug. 16 after getting into her car near
her home. The murder is unsolved.  Masood is among at least 12 whistleblowers killed in India
since January 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
while at least 40 people were assaulted after seeking
information under the law. Enacted by Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  six years ago, the legislation has become the most
powerful tool for fighting wrongdoing in politics and business,
with 529,000 requests filed in the year through March. While
some cases have prompted the resignation of public officials,
users risk becoming victims of their success.  “It is a tragedy that these people have died, but it is
also a sign of how powerful a tool the law is,” said Subhash
Agrawal, a New Delhi cloth trader who successfully campaigned
for  Supreme Court  judges and ministers’ assets to be made public
under the information act.  “This is the most important piece of legislation passed in
post-independence India. It is doing wonders for exposing
corruption, and this will undoubtedly improve the performance of
the economy,” he said in a phone interview.  Behind  China   India’s economic expansion is being undermined by
corruption, according to business leaders. Growth could approach
China’s pace of more than 9 percent if graft were reduced, a
KPMG LLP March survey of chief executive officers in India said.
Gross domestic product has grown an average of 7.5 percent a
year in the past decade, International Monetary Fund  data  show.  The law is making a difference. Answers to RTI requests
helped lead to the ouster of the chief minister of Maharashtra
state, of which Mumbai is the capital, and the arrest of three
members of the 2010 Commonwealth Games’ organizing committee.  Increased scrutiny of government officials also holds
promise for millions of poor in the world’s second-largest
nation by population. The Alert Citizens Group in New Delhi
helps slum-dwellers file applications that monitor improvements
in services like water supplies and distribution systems for
food, kerosene and cooking oil, and the meeting-attendance
records and spending habits of local councilors.  For slum dwellers, filing a request under the law, known as
RTI, was almost as effective as paying a bribe in getting a new
ration card, according to a 2008 series of field experiments by
Leonid Peisakhin and Paul Pinto, who were doctoral candidates at
 Yale University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut . Those who did nothing
never received their card or waited three times as long, the
researchers found in a 2009 paper.  More Protection  In a speech praising the impact of the RTI bill, Singh said
Oct. 14 the government is taking steps to make the act more
effective. To protect those exposing corruption he said the
government will pass legislation that will provide security and
protect the identity of whistleblowers.  “We expect this law to be enacted in the next few months
and it would, among other things, help in prevention of violence
against those who seek to expose wrongdoings,” Singh said.  Invoking the RTI act poses special risks for people living
in remote areas, which often have only a handful of government
officers, said Suhas Chakma, the New Delhi-based director of the
 Asian Centre for Human Rights . The official dealing with the
request faces a potential conflict of interest in cases that
reveal corruption or inefficiencies, since his own job could be
jeopardized by releasing the information, he said.  ‘More Aggressive’  “The increase in violence is a direct result of people
getting more and more aggressive with their requests,” said
Chakma, whose organization collects  data  on the assaults. “In
the beginning, people didn’t realize how powerful this law was.
Now, everybody knows, even the criminals and the corrupt.”  Eight of the 12 murdered activists lived in remote areas or
towns. None lived in India’s 10 largest cities by population.  Accounts of the 40 assaults come from data compiled by
Bloomberg from interviews with family members, police and
regional-language newspapers, a database from the Asian human-
rights center and cases examined by the Jaipur-based  Consumer
Unity and Trust Society .  One of the victims was Babbu Singh, a policeman who was
shot after he filed an RTI request about public spending in his
village of Katghar, in Uttar Pradesh state. Jaisukh Bambhania,
who comes from the western state of Gujarat, was disfigured with
 acid ; Jagdish Sharma, in the village of Chandrawal in Haryana,
was injured and his daughter-in-law killed when the target of
his RTI application drove his car into a crowd of protesters.  ‘Used to Killing’  “When applications are filed people in government will
pass the information on to criminals,” said N. Vikramsimha, a
Bangalore-based trustee of the Right to Information Research
Center, and author of “Gateway to Good Governance,” among
other books on the measure. “The criminal bosses then come
after you. They are used to killing people. It is not a problem
for them.”  Niyamat Ansari may have paid the ultimate price for his
request. A resident of the state of Jharkhand, he collected
enough documents through his RTI requests for details on the
winning bidders of public-works contracts under India’s  National
Rural Employment Guarantee Act  to register official complaints
with the police. Three people, including a local development
official, were arrested.  Beaten to Death  On March 2, he was dragged from his house and beaten to
death by a group of people, according to a police complaint
filed by his family at the time. The attackers threw copies of
his RTI requests at him and his family during the attack, said a
cousin who declined to be identified out of fear for his life.  Local police don’t pursue complaints vigorously, according
to Jaisukh Bambhania, who said in a phone interview that at
least three people accosted him outside a government office in
Una,  Gujarat . He said the individuals stabbed him in the back,
beat him with metal pipes and threw acid on him on Aug. 21,
after he filed an RTI request asking which officials had
approved construction of a local restaurant.  Dipankar Trivedi, the superintendent of police in  Junagadh 
district, where Bambhania said the attack took place, said in a
telephone interview that an investigation was under way, and
that the attackers that Bambhania had named had filed their own
complaint saying that they were not in Junagadh on those days.  Requests Denied  About 40 percent of federal RTI requests were rated
unsuccessful in a 2009 study of 17,000 people across India by
the RTI Assessment Analysis Group and the  National Campaign for
People’s Right to Information . By contrast, a  report  from Chief
Information Commissioner  Satyananda Mishra  says fewer than 7
percent of requests were denied. Mishra didn’t reply to phone
calls and e-mails.  Singh’s government has stood by the law even after an RTI
request revealed divisions between ministries on a 2008 decision
by then-Telecommunications Minister  Andimuthu Raja  to allot,
instead of auction, mobile-phone airwaves. The  Central Bureau of
Investigation  is probing charges of corruption in the allotment
case, and Raja and 10 corporate executives have been arrested.  A letter resulting from an RTI request made by private
citizen Vivek Garg showed the finance and telecommunications
ministries had differed over the allocation, undermining claims
by Singh in February that the cabinet had been united in backing
an allotment.  Citizens’ Demands  “Even an individual citizen can demand what is being
written in the files of the government, what notes or
instructions the ministers are giving,” Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said on Sept. 22, referring to the released letter,
according to a transcript of a speech to U.S. and Indian
business leaders in  New Delhi .  Governments around the world are increasingly giving their
citizens the legal right to information. More than 90 countries
have enacted a version of the RTI, giving 5 billion people, or
more than two-thirds of the world’s population,  access  to
government records, according to the Accountability Initiative,
a New Delhi-based research organization.  Chakma’s human rights group, along with others, is lobbying
the Indian government to include  RTI -related assaults in a
special category of crimes to fast-track investigations and
prosecutions. The information commission last month said it
would publish anything sought by slain or attacked RTI
requesters in the wake of Masood’s murder.  “Carrying out attacks will be counterproductive because
the information that people want silenced will be published,”
Information Commissioner  Shailesh Gandhi  said in an interview.  Lowest Bidder  Such disclosure will come too late for Masood, who began
filing RTI requests seeking information about corruption after
her first one showed she was the lowest bidder for contracts to
manage state-government social events and yet never won. She
asked about local environmental issues and government expenses
and shared the responses with newspapers, which ran articles
based on them.  “These experiences have made me tough, and work on social
causes,” she told her friends in a posting on Facebook in May
2010. “I just pray that God gives me strength.”  By then she was living under a cloud of fear, according to
her sister, Ayesha Masood.  In January 2010, Shehla Masood wrote a letter to the state
director general of police and to other government officials,
including Indian Minister for Home Affairs Palaniappan Chidambaram. She detailed threats to her life that she said were
made by a local official, Pawan Shrivastava, and included a tape
recording that she said was of Shrivastava threatening her.  ‘Jurisdictional Issues’  The Home Ministry chose not to act because her letter was
directed to the state director general of police, said ministry
spokesman Onkar Kedia. “There were jurisdictional issues,” he
said.  Masood later requested a copy of her letter through an RTI
application to see what had become of it. The copy is marked as
on file with the director general of police’s office in Bhopal.
It includes a notation from an unnamed official saying that an
investigation into her complaints should be undertaken.  Shrivastava has been questioned by the  Central Bureau of
Investigation  in relation to the Masood case, said Hemant
Priyadarshy, deputy inspector general for the CBI’s office in
Madhya Pradesh state. He is running the murder investigation.  Shrivastava told Bloomberg News by telephone on Oct. 3 that
he had no comment. He had previously agreed to meet a reporter
in Bhopal and speak with him, then hung up the phone when the
reporter called to make a specific appointment on Sept 17. The
reporter was denied permission to enter the Bhopal police
headquarters, where Shrivastava was assigned, on Sept. 20.  Parking-Lot Scuffle  That day, the reporter’s driver was slapped and knocked to
the ground in a parking area by two constables. He had refused
to answer their questions about the reporter’s identity and
location of his hotel.  Masood never received protection despite several
complaints, her sister and father said in their home in Bhopal.  “She was fighting alone, and while we were obviously
worried, we never thought anything like this could happen,”
said her father, Sultan Masood, 70.  Three weeks after Shehla Masood was shot in the trachea and
bled to death in her car, the investigation was taken from local
police and referred to the  Central Bureau of Investigation , said
the CBI’s Priyadarshy.  A forensic team found additional evidence, including files
that Masood had on the day of her murder. Her cell phone records
show the police used the phone after her death to order food
from a nearby eatery, according to her family and Priyadarshy.  The crime “has attracted a lot of attention, both from the
government and from the media, because Masood was an RTI
activist and also because she was a woman,” said Priyadarshy.
“I can assure you, my best men are working on the case.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in New Delhi at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  