-- 
Wild Animals’ Escape From Ohio Farm Like ‘Noah’s Ark Wrecking’

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 
2011-10-19T21:22:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/wild-animals-escape-from-ohio-farm-like-noah-s-ark-wrecking-.html
Jack Hanna says the scene of wild
and dangerous animals running from an eastern Ohio farm after
their owner freed them and killed himself was “like Noah’s Ark
wrecking.”  “Not full of birds and things, just lions and tigers and
bears,” the director emeritus of the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium
said today near Zanesville. “I can’t imagine any more animals
that would be worse to have out here.”  Zoo staff members came to the property in Zanesville, about
55 miles (89 kilometers) east of Columbus, after Terry Thompson,
61, killed himself yesterday, Muskingum County Sheriff Matt Lutz
said. Investigators believe Thompson opened the cages of about
56 beasts before his suicide, Lutz said. Authorities said they
answered many calls at the 73-acre spread over the years,
including reports of animal cruelty.  Even as law officers tracked the feral escapees, Ohio
officials are considering regulations on exotic and wild pets.
Former Governor Ted Strickland issued an executive order banning
their keeping before leaving office in January, though it
expired under Governor  John Kasich .  The order might have forced Thompson to surrender his
menagerie, said Wayne Pacelle, president and chief executive of
the Humane Society of the  United States . Bill Damschroder, chief
counsel for the Ohio Department of Natural Resources, said the
order was unenforceable and that the Kasich administration is
developing a law to regulate the ownership of wild animals. The
Zanesville incident likely will speed its passage,  Rob Nichols ,
a Kasich spokesman, said by phone.  Death Toll  Law officers shot 48 animals and buried them on the
property, including 18 tigers, nine lions, eight lionesses,
three mountain lions, six black bears, two grizzly bears and a
baboon, Lutz said during a news conference at a makeshift
operations center near the Thompson property. A gray wolf and
monkey were still loose, and the monkey may be carrying a virus,
Lutz said. Six other animals were taken to the Columbus Zoo.  Hanna, who has been a frequent guest on television shows
including “The Late Show with  David Letterman ,” said he has
received criticism because the animals weren’t merely sedated.
It was too risky, and a tragedy for the animal world “could
have been a bigger tragedy for the human world,” he said at the
press conference.  ‘Call 911’  Barb Wolfe, a Columbus Zoo veterinarian, said in an
interview that she tried to tranquilize a tiger on the property
this morning and was about 15 feet away when it roared and
started charging, forcing police to shoot it.  “An agitated animal like that can really fight off a lot
of anesthetic,” Wolfe said.  Lutz said his department received a call yesterday about 5
p.m. reporting that animals were loose. Most remained within 500
yards of Thompson’s property, though two were shot in a
neighbor’s yard, he said.  An electronic sign along Interstate 70 near Zanesville
flashed, “Caution Exotic Animals. Stay in Vehicle. Call 911 If
Seen.”  Lutz said Thompson kept animals for many years, and that
his department came 30 or 35 times since 2004 for reports of
animal cruelty and other offenses.  There were rows of chain-link kennels about 6 feet tall, 7
feet wide and 10 feet deep on both sides of a driveway on
Thompson’s farm, said Tom Stalf, director of operations for the
Columbus Zoo, who was at the scene.  Deadly Relief  Larry Hostetler, 48, executive director of the Muskingum
County Animal Shelter in Zanesville, said Thompson’s collection
of animals “was a nightmare waiting to happen.”  “It’s a little bit of relief that it’ll finally be over,”
Hostetler said in a telephone interview. “It’s been a horrible
situation for the animals for quite some time.”  Hostetler said Thompson was “just a collector, a
hoarder.”  Ashley Hartman, 26, who lives nearby, said farmers would
bring dead cows or other carrion to Thompson to feed the wild
animals. She said she heard gunshots last night as the animals
were being killed and kept her three dogs inside today.  “I think they need to have more regulations for this,”
Hartman said in an interview.  Cracking Down  Strickland’s executive order banning exotic and wild
animals as pets was in effect for 90 days beginning in January,
said Pacelle, the  Humane Society  official. He said Strickland, a
Democrat, issued the order in late 2010 and that Kasich, a
Republican, is reviewing its reinstatement.  Pacelle said had the rule stayed in effect, Thompson might
have been forced to surrender his animals because he was
convicted of cruelty in December 2005. He was fined in five
other cases for having animals loose from his property,
according to Muskingum County court records.  Strickland’s order allowed those who owned wild animals
before it took effect to keep them unless they had been
convicted of abuse or neglect, Pacelle said.  Bill Damschroder, chief counsel for the Ohio Department of
Natural Resources, said in a conference call today that the
executive order was not enforceable and couldn’t have been used
to force Thompson to relinquish his animals. He said that’s why
it was allowed to lapse.  Waking Nightmare  Scott Zody, the department’s interim director, said a  task
force  is developing new rules to regulate wild and exotic
animals. He said Ohio now can regulate only the keeping of wild
animals native to the state. Exotic animals such as lions and
tigers require a federal permit, and only for licensed breeders
or exhibitors, Zody said.  “We are going to take a tough stance on regulation of
these animals,” Zody said.  In 2009, the Humane Society listed Ohio among five states
with inadequate restrictions on wild and exotic animals. The
organization released a list of 26 Ohio incidents since 2003 in
which captive wild animals escaped or killed or injured people
or pets.  “How many incidents must we catalog before the state takes
action?” Pacelle said in a prepared statement today.  Hanna said he’ll never forget the scene.  “This is like to me, probably one of the greatest
nightmares in my life,” he said. “I’m going to go home and say
I just dreamed all this the last 24 hours because I can’t
imagine it’s even happening in a movie script.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Zanesville at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  