-- 
World Bank President Says U.S. Must Curb Entitlement Growth

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-10-19T22:32:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/world-bank-president-says-u-s-must-reduce-entitlement-growth.html
World Bank President  Robert Zoellick 
said the U.S. must find a way to reduce the growth in Social
Security and Medicare payments to solve its budget woes.  Zoellick, who spoke at the  University of Michigan ’s Ross
School of Business today, said he  has urged  U.S. officials to
revise the formula for how increases in Social Security payments
are calculated. He urged concentrating on a gauge based on the
cost-of-living index.  “The government has to deal with the rate of growth in
entitlements,” Zoellick said. “Otherwise, frankly, it will eat
up everything in the budget.”  That kind of move would also send a signal to other nations
that the U.S. is serious about fixing its budget problems.  “The question is, is the U.S. really going to face up to
this?” Zoellick said.  If the government makes the changes to Social Security
relatively soon, the savings could take care of 70 percent to 80
percent of the program’s budget problems over the next 20 years,
Zoellick told reporters after the event.  After making that change, “to move up the  retirement age 
would seem to be the next step,” Zoellick said.  The European Union also has to find a way to solve its
long-term budget problems, Zoellick said. European leaders will
meet on Oct. 23 and may unveil a plan to manage their debt
crisis.  Germany  is the key player, Zoellick said, adding he
believes that the Germans have a strong desire to make a plan to
fix the problem in the long term.  “Germans are deeply committed to  Europe ,” Zoellick said.
“This has been the heartland of Germany’s sense of self since
World War II. I believe this can come together.”  Zoellick’s lecture was sponsored by the Gerald R. Ford
School of Public Policy and the International Policy Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  