-- 
MMX Falls After Chief Executive Officer Roger Downey Resigns

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-10-19T20:26:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/mmx-falls-after-chief-executive-officer-roger-downey-resigns.html
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the
iron-ore producer controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , fell to its lowest in almost two weeks after the
resignation of Chief Executive Officer Roger Downey.  MMX slid 3.5 percent to 6.85 reais in  Sao Paulo  today, its
lowest level since Oct. 7. The stock has dropped 39 percent this
year, more than the 21 percent decline at Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa Index.  Chief Financial Officer Guilherme Escalhao was named as the
new CEO effective immediately, Rio de Janeiro-based MMX said
yesterday, adding that Downey’s resignation was for “personal
reasons.”  Downey departs as the company is in the midst of
negotiations to finance its key iron-ore project, Banco BTG
Pactual SA analysts led by Edmo Chagas in  Rio de Janeiro  said in
a note to clients today.  “Although we are confident in MMX’s financial ability to
deliver its expansion plans, we remain concerned about delays,
cost overruns and balance sheet risks,” they said.  MMX said its financing plans will remain in place after the
management change. The company is working to get funding for its
4 billion-real ($2.25 billion) Serra Azul project and expects to
use credit lines from  Brazil ’s BNDES and other development banks
to help finance the deposit, Escalhao said late yesterday on a
conference call with analysts.  “We have a good chance of passing through this process
without dramatic changes,” Escalhao said of the financing
process. He plans to hold talks with banks in  South Korea .  Project Loan  MMX will have $1.8 billion in loans for its Serra Azul
project completed before year-end, Downey said in an interview
Aug. 11. Downey, 44, a former mining equity analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, had been MMX’s CEO since August 2009. Guido Germani was named to replace Escalhao as chief financial
officer, MMX said yesterday.  The reason for his resignation is “exclusively personal,”
Downey said during the same conference call. He said he wants to
“live life a little bit slower, closer to my family.” He plans
to remain a shareholder in the company.  A former executive of  Vale SA (VALE3) , Escalhao has been MMX’s CFO
since January. He trained in business administration at the Rio
de Janeiro-based Getulio Vargas Foundation and has more than 25
years of experience in the  mining industry , MMX said yesterday.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  