-- 
MMX’s Financing Plans Won’t Change as New CEO Takes Charge

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-10-19T02:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/mmx-s-financing-plans-won-t-change-as-new-ceo-takes-charge.html
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the
iron-ore producer controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , said the company’s financing plans won’t change after
Guilherme Escalhao was named to replace Roger Downey as chief
executive officer.  MMX, based in  Rio de Janeiro , is working to get funding for
its Serra Azul project and expects to use credit lines from
 Brazil ’s BNDES and other development banks, Escalhao said on a
conference call with analysts late yesterday.  “We have a good chance of passing through this process
without dramatic changes,” Escalhao said. He will go to  South
Korea  to hold talks with banks, he said.  MMX will have $1.8 billion in loans for its Serra Azul
project completed before year-end, Downey said in an interview
Aug. 11. Downey, 44, a former mining equity analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, has been MMX’s CEO since August 2009. Guido Germani was named to replace Escalhao as chief financial officer,
MMX said yesterday.  The reason for his resignation is “exclusively personal,”
Downey said during the same conference call. He said he wants to
“live life a little bit slower, closer to my family.” He plans
to remain a shareholder in the company.  A former executive of  Vale SA (VALE5) , Escalhao has been CFO of MMX
since January. He trained in business administration at the Rio
de Janeiro-based Getulio Vargas Foundation and has more than 25
years of experience in the mining industry, MMX said in a press
release yesterday.  MMX rose 3.5 percent to 7.10 reais in  Sao Paulo  yesterday.
The stock has dropped 37 percent this year, almost double the 20
percent decline of Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  