-- 
Yahoo Climbs as Profit Beats Estimates on Internet-Ad Demand

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-10-19T20:50:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/yahoo-rises-as-profit-tops-some-estimates.html
Yahoo! Inc., the Web portal that is
exploring strategic options, rose after demand for advertising
helped third-quarter profit exceed analysts’ estimates.  Profit before some costs was 21 cents a share, the company
said in a statement yesterday. That beat the 17-cent average
projection of analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales, excluding revenue passed on to partner sites, fell 4.6
percent to $1.07 billion, matching the average estimate.  Yahoo, which has been grappling with rising competition
from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. for users and advertisers,
benefited in the recent period from growing demand for online
ads, even as it fired Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz  and
embarked on a review of its strategy. The board is exploring a
“full range” of options for the company, interim CEO Tim Morse
said on a call with analysts yesterday.  “The company didn’t fall apart,” said  Jordan Rohan , an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  New York . “Almost by
definition that was greater than expected.”  Yahoo rose 3 percent to $15.94 at the close in New York.
The stock has dropped 4.1 percent this year.  Growth Outside U.S.  Net income attributable to the company fell 26 percent to
$293.3 million, or 23 cents a share, from $396.1 million, or 29
cents, a year earlier, Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo said.  Growth outside the U.S. bolstered revenue. In  Asia , revenue
excluding sales passed to partners surged 20 percent to $221.6
million. Sales in the Americas region dropped 12 percent to
$753.7 million.  Fourth-quarter revenue, excluding sales passed to partner
sites, will be $1.13 billion to $1.24 billion. Analysts had
estimated $1.21 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  U.S. online ad spending is expected to grow 20 percent this
year to $31.3 billion, according to  EMarketer Inc.  Yahoo’s share
of display ads, including banners, will be 13.1 percent this
year in the U.S., down from 14.4 percent last year, estimates
EMarketer. Facebook’s share will climb to 16.3 percent, up from
12.2 percent.  Display ad revenue, excluding sales passed to partners, was
$449 million in the third quarter, little changed from $448
million a year earlier. Display sales rose 4.9 percent in the
second quarter.  Microsoft Accord  The company also said it recently agreed to extend a
revenue per search agreement with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in the U.S.
and  Canada  through 2013. The accord had been set to run out in
the first quarter of next year.  Bartz, who had aimed to stem market-share losses, left the
company amid mounting investor frustration over failed
turnaround efforts. Morse, who had served as chief financial
officer, said yesterday the company is making progress and is
focused on moving forward.  “They hit a single here -- it’s great, but it’s a
single,” said Brett Harriss, an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in
Rye, New York. “We’re waiting for either a CEO to come in and
give us a vision of what Yahoo could be, or we’re looking for
the sale of the entire company.”  Potential Bidders  Yahoo has drawn an increasingly crowded field of potential
bidders for the company. KKR & Co. and Blackstone Group LP are
among the private-equity firms considering possible bids for
Yahoo, according to people with knowledge of the matter last
week.  In addition, Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., a Chinese e-
commerce company whose biggest shareholder is Yahoo, has
discussed a plan with  Silver Lake  and  Russia ’s Digital Sky
Technologies to make a joint bid, people familiar with the
matter have said. Another group that is interested in a possible
offer includes Providence Equity Partners Inc. and former News
Corp. executive  Peter Chernin , people said.  “The board is actively looking at the full range of
options available to return the company to a path of robust
growth and industry-leading innovation,” Morse said on the call
yesterday. “The board also has said that when it has something
to announce, it will do so. That will take time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 