-- 
Yingluck Urges Calm as Thai Floodwaters Drain Through Bangkok

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-10-19T09:10:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/yingluck-urges-calm-as-thai-floodwaters-drain-through-bangkok.html
Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra called for calm and asked residents to refrain from
damaging sandbag barriers after the government opened gates to
allow floodwaters to drain through six canals in Bangkok.  “I want to beg people, please don’t destroy the levies,”
she told reporters today. “If you do, it will create a bigger
impact and be harder to control.”  Thai authorities are aiming to protect the capital from a
deluge of water released from northern dams this month that has
destroyed farmland, shut factories and disrupted supply chains
across  Asia  as it sweeps across a flood plain the size of
 Florida . The disaster has claimed 315 lives since July and left
millions seeking dry ground.  The nation’s worst floods in five decades have closed more
than 1,000 factories operated by companies including Honda Motor
Co. and Canon Inc. and left manufacturers such as Toyota Motor
Corp without supplies. It will take about 40 days for the 12
billion cubic meters of water, enough to cover  Connecticut  with
about a meter (3.3 feet), to drain into the Gulf of  Thailand ,
Irrigation Department spokesman Boonsanong Suchatpong said.  “The situation should be back to normal around the end of
November,” he said. “This is on the condition that no barriers
are destroyed.”  Thailand kept  interest rates  unchanged for the first time
this year, ending its longest series of increases since 2006.
The Bank of Thailand kept its benchmark one-day bond repurchase
rate at 3.5 percent, it said in Bangkok today, a decision
predicted by 16 of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. One
analyst expected a rate cut.  Flood Cost  The damage caused by the floods may amount to as much as
120 billion baht ($3.9 billion), Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul
said Oct. 14. The Cabinet yesterday agreed to widen the 2012
 budget deficit  by 50 billion baht to fund flood reconstruction,
said Finance Minister Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala, who
estimated this week the floods may erase as much as 1.7
percentage points off growth this year.  “They probably need to do more because fiscal policy now
would not just be focused on consumption,” Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group
AG, said today in a Bloomberg Television interview. “To restore
investor confidence, they need to invest in water management and
infrastructure.”  600,000 Workers  About 600,000 workers are temporarily jobless after floods
swamped their factories, Somkiat Chayasiwong, permanent
secretary for the Labor Ministry, said today on the state-run
NBT channel.  Western Digital Corp. (WDC) , which relies on Thailand for
60 percent of production, may see exports from the country slide
as much as 40 percent to 120 billion baht this year after floods
shut two of its plants, Industry Minister Wannarat Charnnukul
said yesterday.  “This will surely affect the global supply chain and also
consumers because  Western Digital  is a key producer in the
global market,” Wannarat told reporters after meeting with
executives from the computer disk-drive maker. The company
counts Hewlett-Packard Co., Dell Inc. and Acer Inc. among its
customers.  Thailand’s baht strengthened after retreating from a three-
week high yesterday on concern that a disruption in
manufacturing will hurt exports and economic growth, gaining 0.2
percent to 30.68 per dollar at 3:44 p.m. local time. The
benchmark SET Index fell 1.5 percent, with Thai Reinsurance Pcl
sliding 5.5 percent, extending a 20 percent decline this month.  Fortifying Floodwalls  On Bangkok’s northern border, festive music played from
loudspeakers as volunteers sorted 10-kilogram sandbags, filled
them up and tossed them onto six-wheeled  dump trucks . Temporary
shelters provided respite from the sun as workers handed out
water, soda, fried rice, muffins and other snacks.  “Saving this area means saving my home,” said San
Santayanont, 36, taking a rest after loading trucks with
sandbags. He lives and works in a nearby district.  “This is the last line of defense basically for Bangkok,”
former Finance Minister Korn Chatikavanij said yesterday. He
helped fill sandbags with former Prime Minister Abhisit
Vejjajiva, whose party lost to Yingluck’s Pheu Thai in July
elections.  “We don’t think there will be mass flooding of northern
Bangkok in the way that we saw in other provinces,” Korn said.
“Inner Bangkok is even more safe.”  Abhisit said Bangkok will continue facing a threat “for a
while” as the mass of water moves through the city. Yingluck’s
government caused confusion and “underestimated the force of
nature,” he said.  Homes Submerged  Along the floodwall, water seeped past sandbags in some
areas as workers stacked them up to build a barrier bigger than
two meters next to a canal brimming with water. Some houses made
of tin and wood next to the canal were partly submerged, with
residents saying they were concerned water would overwhelm them
as has happened in provinces to the north.  “I’ve never seen water this high,” Urai Riengkua, 43,
said as she cradled her 14-month-old grandson. “I want to move
but I don’t know where to go. If the water surges, I will take
my grandchild and run as fast as I can.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  