-- 
Zambian Investors Say Copper Boom to Continue as Sata Says It’s No Castro

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a
-- 
2011-10-20T11:45:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/zambia-investors-say-copper-boom-to-extend-as-sata-no-castro.html
Zambian President  Michael Sata  fired
the governor of the central bank and its board, reversed a
foreign takeover of a local lender and temporarily halted metal
exports within two weeks of taking office. Investors in  Africa ’s
biggest copper producer aren’t panicking.  The kwacha has strengthened 3.4 percent against the dollar
since Sata, 74, was inaugurated on Sept. 23. It’s the best
performing African currency over that period, indicating
investors have faith in the economy’s future. The government
said it will consult with investors before considering raising
mining taxes after pledging to more fairly spread copper wealth
in the election campaign.  “This is not a quasi Fidel Castro-loving revolutionary out
to change things,” said  John Stephenson , who helps manage $2.7
billion at First Asset Management Inc. in Toronto, including
shares of mining companies  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  First Quantum
Minerals Ltd. (FM) , which operate in Zambia. “I don’t think he is
going to carry through with the more material changes, which is
really to wall up the industry with all these windfall taxes,”
he said in a phone interview on Oct. 7.  Fighting Corruption  Changes so far have focused on combating what Sata says is
corruption in the civil service, meeting a promise that helped
him rally support and remove the Movement for Multiparty
Democracy from power for the first time in two decades. While he
also pledged to share copper income, a 17 percent decline in the
metal’s price since the end of August may restrict how much the
government can extract through higher taxes. Copper makes up
about 80 percent of the southern African nation’s exports and a
slump in profit may curb investment and economic growth.  “Lower copper prices strengthen the argument within the
party for not going the windfall tax route,” Philippe de Pontet, an Africa analyst for Eurasia Group in  Washington , said
in a phone interview Oct. 6. “It’s not clear to me that one can
extrapolate that investors that are generally in good standing,
who are doing their business credibly, will be targets of a
witchhunt.”  Companies such as  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  and Glencore
International Plc, the world’s largest publicly traded
commodities supplier, and  Vale SA (VALE3) , may invest more than $6
billion in the country through 2013, according to Sophie Chung,
an analyst at Wood Mackenzie’s metals research unit, Brook Hunt,
in an interview in July.  Share Prices  First Quantum is “confident” its investment in Zambia is
safe, Chief Executive Officer Philip Pascall said in an e-mailed
statement on Oct. 13, after meeting with Sata.  “We are working closely with the government,” said  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore. Vedanta
spokeswoman Fiona Crosswell declined to comment.  First Quantum’s stock has jumped 20 percent since Oct. 4
after plunging 35 percent in the week of last month’s election
as a Sata victory became probable. Vedanta rebounded 23 percent
since Oct. 5 after sliding 22 percent from Oct. 19 to Oct. 23.  While the government will seek to boost income from mining
companies, it has promised to do so in consultation with
investors and won’t hurt its main revenue-generating industry,
according to ministers and ruling Patriotic Party officials.  “Whatever measures we will take as government, we shall
make sure they do not resemble anything close to nationalization
because we have gone down the nationalization path before, and
it has not worked for us,” Mines Minister Wilbur Simuusa said
by phone on Oct. 13.  Mining Licenses  Governments around the world are increasing the size of the
stakes in mining projects and “if we can up our stake to about
35 percent it would be good,” Simuusa told reporters today in
the capital, Lusaka. He also disbanded the mine licensing
committee.  In the early 1970s Zambia’s government nationalized copper
mines owned by  Anglo American Plc. (AAL)  Production plunged over the
next three decades because of underinvestment in the mines and
most of the assets were sold back to the company in 2000 for $90
million. Anglo then ceded ownership when the copper price fell.  Sata acted quickly to remove officials linked with the
former government in what he said is to curb corruption and
shift policy to help the poor.  Central Bank Governor  Caleb Fundanga was fired as central bank governor on Sept.
29 to help ensure looser monetary policy, according to  Leon Myburgh , sub-Saharan Africa strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
Johannesburg. The heads of the revenue office, the anti-
corruption agency, the food-security body, the power utility and
national broadcaster were also fired, and Sata halted the
purchase by  South Africa ’s  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  of Finance Bank Zambia
Ltd.  Sata stopped metal exports to put new rules in place before
canceling the order two days later. All exports will be
certified by the central bank once the regulations are written
to ensure transparency, Sata said in a state of the nation
speech on Oct. 14. He cut fuel prices on Oct. 7 and ordered
millers to reduce food costs.  When a president makes comments and threats like Sata has,
“the companies are going to say they can find other places
without the regulation and political risk,” said Chris Melville, an Africa analyst at Menas Associates in  London .
“That makes it an inherently less-attractive investment
destination.”  Credit Rating  Companies may only be willing to pay more in taxes and
royalties if it means their operations will be protected and
their titles guaranteed, he said.  Standard & Poor’s  said Zambia will likely keep luring
investors.  The ratings service affirmed the country at B+, four levels
below investment-grade and in line with Kenya and  Nigeria , on
Oct. 4. Economic prospects in Zambia, which delayed plans to
sell a $500 million foreign bond because of the election, are
promising, S&P said, even as it warned about possible higher
taxes for mining companies.  While investment and copper production is climbing, Zambia
remains among the 20 lowest-ranked nations of 169 on the United
Nations Development Programme’s 2010  Human Development Index .  Sata beat President Rupiah Banda, 74, under whom the
economy expanded more than 6 percent a year since he succeeded
Levy Mwanawasa, who died in office in 2008. Copper production
climbed to more than 700,000 metric tons from about 250,000 tons
in 1999, drawing praise from the  International Monetary Fund  for
opening up the economy to foreign investment.  Production to Double  Output of the metal will probably double to 1.5 million
tons a year by 2015, according to government forecasts. The
increase may make Zambia the fifth-largest producer by 2013,
Chung said in July.  Sata moved quickly to reassure some investors about
previous campaign slogans. His first meeting with a foreign
official after being elected was with the Chinese ambassador in
Lusaka after making threats before past elections to expel
Chinese mine workers.  “We are very satisfied with our current bilateral
relationship,” said Hiahan Zhao, first secretary at the embassy
in Lusaka, in a telephone interview on Sept. 23. “We have full
confidence in our future relationship.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Mukwita in Lusaka at 
 amukwita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  