-- 
Zijin Mining to Borrow Gold From Banks to Sell

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-10-20T03:04:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-19/zijin-to-borrow-gold-from-banks-to-sell-bets-prices-to-rise.html
(Corrects analyst comment in fourth paragraph of story
that moved on Oct. 19.)  Zijin Mining Group Co.,  China ’s
biggest gold producer by market value, said it plans to borrow
bullion from banks to sell in the market as the company is
betting prices will rise.  “We’re borrowing gold from banks,” Zheng Yuqiang, Zijin’s
company secretary, said by phone today. “This is completely new
in China and banks will choose companies with a good record of
repaying debt. We will be borrowing from  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China (601398)  for a start.”  Gold has risen 21 percent in the past year as Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis and falling global equities spurred demand
for the precious metal. Zijin expects prices to increase in the
short term, according to Zheng.  “The company is using this financing alternative to save
borrowing costs,” said Richard Leung, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets. “The cost of funding of this
alternative would be only 3 to 5 percent which is cheaper than
borrowing money from banks.”  Zijin will borrow gold for not more than one year and the
total amount is not to exceed 10 metric tons in 2011 as
permitted by the Shanghai Gold Exchange, the company said in a
statement yesterday. Zijin produced 33.7 tons of gold in the
first half, down 9.6 percent from a year earlier.  “Borrowing gold is a low-cost option for financing,” Vice
Chairman Lan Fusheng said by phone today, declining to comment
if Zijin is planning any acquisitions. “There’s no special
reason. All companies need short-term funding for operations.”  The gold producer, based in China’s Fujian province, closed
unchanged at HK$3.05 in  Hong Kong  trading, compared with the 1.3
percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   Debts, Credit Lines  Zijin’s total borrowings were 8.7 billion yuan ($1.4
billion) as of June 30, of which the amount payable within a
year was 5.9 billion yuan, according to its six-month earnings
statement. It also had about 45 billion yuan of credit lines
from banks for general purposes, the statement showed.  Daily  capital requirements  were financed from internal  cash
flow , the metals producer said in the statement. Cash and cash
equivalents rose 73 percent from a year earlier to 7.5 billion
yuan as of the end of June.  Immediate-delivery gold dropped $9.28, or 0.6 percent, to
$1,648.57 an ounce by 9:28 a.m. in  London . Gold for December
delivery fell 0.2 percent to $1,650.10 on the Comex in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  