-- ‘Hunger Games’ Defeats ‘Stooges’ to Lead Box Office Again
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-04-23T21:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/-hunger-games-defeats-stooges-to-lead-box-office-again.html
The comedy “Think Like a Man” was
the No. 1 weekend film at theaters in the U.S. and  Canada  with
$33.6 million in ticket sales for  Sony Corp. (6758) , ending a four-week
run in first place for “The Hunger Games.”  “The Hunger Games” dropped to third with $14.7 million in
sales, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-
mailed statement. The romance drama “The Lucky One,” from  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros ., opened in second place with $22.5
million.  Box-office sales gained 4 percent in the latest weekend
after an 8 percent decline last week as studios readied major
releases for the summer season that starts on May 4 with
“Marvel’s The Avengers” from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  Sales for 2012
are running 17 percent ahead of last year with $3.14 billion in
tickets sold, Hollywood.com said.  Phil Contrino, editor of film researcher BoxOffice.com,
said results for “Think Like a Man,” weren’t surprising in
that “the black audience is typically underserved by Hollywood.  ‘‘So when you have an intelligent, insightful look at
relationships, it’s no wonder that that will pull audiences
in,’’ he said.  In ‘‘Think Like a Man,’’ four women unhappy with their men
use advice from Steve Harvey, author of ‘‘Act Like a Lady, Think
Like a Man.’’ The men learn of the tactics and fight back by
getting their own copies of the text. The movie features Michael
Ealy, Meagan Good and Taraji P. Henson.  ‘The Lucky One’  ‘‘Think Like a Man’’ was expected to generate $24 million
in sales, the estimate of Boxoffice.com. Contrino said he didn’t
expect any of the top three films to be in the top spot this
coming weekend with the debut of ‘‘The Five-Year Engagement,’’ a
romantic comedy from Comcast Corp.’s Universal starring  Jason
Segel  and  Emily Blunt .  ‘‘The Lucky One’’ stars  Zac Efron  as a returning Iraq war
veteran who searches for a girl he knows only from a picture he
found during a tour of duty. Taylor Schilling and Blythe Danner
co-star. The film was expected to have $21 million in receipts,
the estimate of Boxoffice.com.  ‘‘This one benefited from a predominantly female audience
because of Taylor Schilling and Zac Efron getting top billing,’’
Contrino said.  ‘‘The Hunger Games’’ has generated $357.1 million in ticket
sales for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  since it was released
on March 23. The film, based on the Suzanne Collins novel, tells
the story of a dystopian society where teens are forced to fight
to the death in a televised competition. The picture stars
 Jennifer Lawrence ,  Josh Hutcherson  and Woody Harrelson.  ‘Chimpanzee’  The film’s four-week run in first place was the longest of
any film since ‘‘Avatar’’ held the spot for seven weeks in late
2009 and early 2010. The movie also cracked the Top 20 among
all-time domestic box-office grosses, placing 19th place,
according to Hollywood.com.  The Disney documentary ‘‘Chimpanzee’’ was fourth with sales
of $10.7 million in its debut weekend. The film, narrated by  Tim Allen , follows a young chimp as he and his mother navigate the
challenges of life in the jungle.  ‘‘The Three Stooges,’’ from News Corp.’s Fox, fell to fifth
this past weekend from second with $9.8 million in sales. Larry,
Curly and Moe are drawn into a murder plot as they try to save
their childhood home. The Farrelly brothers, Bobby and Peter,
directed and co-wrote the script. Sean Hayes, Will Sasso and
Chris Diamantopolous star as the three brothers.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 4 percent to
$126.1 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Year-to-date attendance is up 19 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
April 20 to April 22 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  