-- AAR, Linklaters Agree on Alliance to Compete Internationally
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-04-22T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/aar-linklaters-agree-on-alliance-to-compete-internationally.html
Allens Arthur Robinson, a 190-year-
old Australian law firm, and Linklaters LLP, a London-based firm
with 2,200 lawyers, agreed on an alliance to compete
internationally with local firms that have grown after combining
with foreign ones.  AAR, to be named Allens, and Linklaters will operate
independently although they’ve agreed on joint ventures in  Asia ,
including a joint practice in Indonesia, with Widyawan &
Partners,  Michael Rose , Allens’ chief executive partner, said in
a phone interview. The alliance will take effect May 1.  Australian law firms are tying up with international firms
to gain access to global legal business as U.K. and U.S. firms
seek to operate in the growing Asian market. Chinese attorneys
are also looking for international tie ups to expand. China’s
King & Wood merged with Australia’s Mallesons Stephen Jaques on
March 1 to create Asia’s biggest law firm, while London-based
 Norton Rose  combined with Deacons Australia in 2010.  “We concluded a merger wasn’t something we should be
pursuing,” Rose said. “We’re really conscious of our
history.”  Allens began in 1822 when George Allen opened a law firm in
Sydney known as Allen, Allen and Hemsley. The firm merged with
Arthur Robinson and Hedderwicks in 2001 to form Allens Arthur
Robinson.  International Reach  The firm sought a broader international reach because of
changing trade and investment flows, Rose said. While most
offshore business coming into  Australia  10 years ago was from
the U.K., U.S. and  Japan , that has changed recently and now
includes the Middle East, Russia and  India  in addition to
companies and sovereign funds, he said.  “The firms are a very good fit,” Linklaters’ senior
partner Robert Elliott said in a statement, referring to his
firm allying with Allens. “By combining our resources and
aligning our supporting processes we will be able to enhance and
expand what we can do for our clients.”  Allens, with 800 lawyers in 14 offices in Asia and
Australia, has been the legal adviser to 77 of the top 100
publicly traded companies in Australia, according to the firm’s
 website . It was named the Australian law firm of the year in
2011 in the Chambers Asia-Pacific 2012 guide.  Linklaters had coordinated  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s inquiry into
alleged criminal behavior in the U.K. phone-hacking scandal that
resulted in the closing of the News of the World newspaper and
the resignation of  James Murdoch  as chairman of British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc.  The law firm had an 11-year joint venture with Allen &
Gledhill LLP in  Singapore , which was terminated last month.  “Every large law firm must have an international strategy,
whether it’s a merger, or a relationship in some form,” Chris
Freeland, the national managing partner at Baker & McKenzie
LLP’s Australian practice, said in an interview last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  