-- Alcatel-Lucent Swaps Signals Rating Promotion: Corporate Finance
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-04-23T10:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/alcatel-lucent-swaps-signals-rating-promotion-corporate-finance.html
Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  investors drove down
the cost of insuring the phone-equipment maker’s debt by more
than any other European technology company this year as its
bonds imply a two-level credit-rating boost.  Credit-default swaps protecting the Paris-based company’s
debt from default for five years have fallen 646 basis points,
or 36 percent, compared with the 31 percent decline for second-
best performer  Cap Gemini SA (CAP) , according to CMA in  New York . The
contracts imply a Ba2 rating, according to Moody’s Analytics,
higher than its current B1 grade.  Alcatel-Lucent reported 2011 net income of 1.1 billion
euros ($1.5 billion) in February, ending five years of losses
amid a slowdown in customer orders in  Europe ’s crisis. It plans
to cut about $660 million in costs this year, following the end
of a three-year turnaround plan by Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen who plans to use the company’s patents to generate
free cash flow for the first time.  “Alcatel-Lucent has an extensive patent portfolio that
could be worth a significant sum of money,” said Matt Eagan, a
Boston-based  money manager  at Loomis Sayles & Co., that owns
Alcatel-Lucent bonds. “The Alcatel story looks attractive from
a bondholder’s perspective.”  Patent Portfolio  The company’s patent portfolio is bigger than that of
 Nortel Networks Inc. (NRTLQ) , which sold for about $4 billion, Eagan
said. The former maker of telephone equipment filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in January 2009.  Alcatel-Lucent intends to generate cash this year by
licensing its trove of 29,000 patents, which include voice-
recognition and videoconferencing technology, through a
licensing syndicate to garner value from the rights. It’s a
strategy that Ericsson AB adopted to counter a slowdown in
spending by phone operators.  Simon Poulter, a spokesman for Alcatel-Lucent in Paris,
declined to comment, citing the company’s planned release of
first-quarter results on April 26.  Alcatel-Lucent reduced its total financial debt to 4.6
billion euros last year from 5.4 billion euros in 2010,
according to a March 21 regulatory filing.  Standard & Poor’s ,
which  grades  the company B with a “stable” outlook, said in
March it expects Alcatel-Lucent’s leverage, or gross debt to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
to fall to about eight times by Dec. 31 from 10.5 times at the
end of last year.  Losses Swell  “The company has continued to increase profitability since
2009 and had a strong cash-flow performance in the fourth
quarter,” said Yoann Dupin, a Paris-based  fund manager  at Swan
Capital Management, which owns Alcatel-Lucent bonds. “It faces
strong competitors but they’re making some good innovations,
which could be very good for its future financial profile.”  Formed in 2006 by the merger of Alcatel SA and Lucent
Technologies, the company was intended to create a stronger
competitor to  China ’s Huawei Technologies Co. and Ericsson in
equipment such as routers and base stations. There followed
several years of losses because of costs related to job cuts
across the combined group.  Alcatel-Lucent’s losses swelled to as much as 5.2 billion
euros in 2008 as customers delayed orders amid a worldwide drop
in spending on wireless infrastructure equipment during the
global recession. Increased competition from Huawei and ZTE
Corp. also hurt the company’s performance.  Consuming Cash  Verwaayen, a former CEO of  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  who took over in
2008, has focused on rebuilding the company, which has consumed
about 3.5 billion euros in cash over five years.  His strategy has concentrated on asset disposals, including
its stake in the aerospace manufacturer Thales and a $1.5
billion deal to sell its Genesys call-center software unit to
Permira Advisers LLP.  “The company is better positioned for the future now than
before,” said Tobias Spies, a fund manager at Dr Kohlhase
Vermoegensverwaltung in Munich, which owns Alcatel-Lucent bonds.
“The management are doing a really good job, but profit margins
must be further improved.”  The extra yield over government debt that investors demand
to hold Alcatel-Lucent’s 462 million euros of 6.375 percent
senior unsecured notes maturing in 2014 and 500 million euros of
8.5 percent debt due 2016 shrank 451 basis points this year on
average. That outpaced the 216 basis-point tightening of global
B rated debt issued by European companies, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  Relative Yields  Alcatel-Lucent’s 6.375 percent securities yield 5.5
percent, compared with 10.1 percent for the index, which
contains 193 bonds from issuers including oil and gas company
Afren Plc and Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc, the data show. The
gauge has returned 11.4 percent this year.  Credit-default swaps on Alcatel-Lucent’s bonds declined to
1,138 basis points from 1,784 on Dec. 30, according to CMA
prices. A basis point on a swap protecting 10 million euros of
debt from default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a
year. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Moody’s cut its outlook on Alcatel-Lucent’s rating to
“negative” from “stable” in a Nov. 10 report, citing its
“poor  cash flow  performance” during the first nine months of
2011.  ‘Strong’ Cash Position  Alcatel-Lucent had a “strong” cash position of 3.8
billion euros of cash and equivalents, wrote Moody’s analyst
Wolfgang Draack. While he expects this to rise this year, he
said that the company’s resources are constrained by its cash
needs for operations and debt maturities through to 2013.  The company’s net  cash  fell to 3.5 billion euros in 2011
from 5 billion euros the previous year, missing a target set by
Verwaayen. The CEO told Bloomberg in an interview last month
that he expects to end 2012 with a bolstered cash pile.  For Alcatel-Lucent to achieve its goal of generating
positive free cash flow in 2012 it will have to overcome analyst
projections that it won’t remain profitable. The company may
post a net loss of 87 million euros, according to the average of
seven analyst estimates.  Alcatel-Lucent’s stock rose 15 percent this year to 1.39
euros. The share price peaked at 1.95 euros on Feb. 24,
following the company’s forecast for higher profit margins and a
positive cash position for this year.  “We’re constructive on the credit as we expect the
restructuring plans to finally pay off and result in free cash-
flow break-even in 2012 and positive free cash flow in 2013,”
said Andreea Surdu, a high-yield analyst at Bpi Gestao de
Activos SA in Lisbon.  The company is pinning its prospects on further innovation,
and in its 2011 full-year results presentation said its pipeline
of software assets and breakthroughs in wireless and fixed-line
technologies should aid performance this year.  “The group’s liquidity position is now very healthy and
cash burn has reduced and this will help Alcatel-Lucent meet its
debt maturities through to 2015,” said Andrei Pashko, a
portfolio manager at Deka Investment GmbH in  Frankfurt , who
holds one of the company’s convertible bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  