-- Ambani Plans $12 Billion Expansion to Offset Profit Slump
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-04-23T10:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/ambani-plans-12-billion-expansion-as-net-slumps-most-in-3-years.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of
the largest oil-refining complex, will expand its petrochemicals
businesses as it bets Indian demand for materials used to make
plastics and polyester will help offset weak global fuel sales.  The company controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , Asia’s
second-richest man, will spend $8 billion to boost capacity and
$4 billion on a plant to make a combustible gas for powering its
refineries and petrochemical factories in western  India , Mumbai-
based Reliance said in an April 20  presentation , after posting
its biggest profit decline in three years. The outlay will be
its highest since completing its second refinery in 2008.  Reliance wants to use its record 702.5 billion rupees
($13.5 billion)  cash  to reverse a 29 percent  slump in its stock 
in the past year after a slowdown in  China’s economy  and
 Europe ’s debt crisis cut fuel demand, adding to the drag on
earnings from lower production at India’s biggest natural gas
field. Reliance estimates India’s economic growth will spur a 54
percent increase in chemicals in the next five years.  “The spending plan brings a lot of clarity on the use of
their cash,” said  Niraj Mansingka , a Mumbai-based analyst at
Edelweiss Capital Ltd., who recommends buying Reliance shares.
“The strategy of building capacity in chemical and refining to
meet Indian demand offsets the fall in gas production.”  Shares Rise  Reliance  rose  0.8 percent to 736.30 rupees at the close in
in Mumbai. The stock has gained 6.3 percent this year compared
with an 11 percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)  Of
the 51 analysts covering Reliance, 29  recommend  buying the stock
and eight selling.  Cash held by the company surpassed its total debt of 682.6
billion rupees as of March 31.  Reliance’s  net income  declined 21 percent to 42.4 billion
rupees in the three months ended March 31, according to an April
20 regulatory filing. The earnings  missed  analyst estimates for
the sixth straight quarter.  Pretax profit from petrochemicals fell 17 percent to 21.7
billion rupees, while earnings from refining dropped 32 percent,
the company said. The two businesses accounted for 78 percent of
the company’s pretax profit in the fiscal fourth quarter.  Reliance’s crude oil refining complex at Jamnagar in
Gujarat state can turn cheaper, low-grade crude into high value
fuels that are sold in Europe, U.S. and  Asia . Total exports rose
to $41 billion in the year ended March 31, according to the
April 20 presentation to analysts.  Double Capacity  The company earned $7.6 for every barrel of crude it turned
into fuels in the quarter ended March 31, 17 percent lower than
a year earlier.  Reliance plans to almost double capacity to produce
petrochemicals including propylene, used to make plastic and
packaging material, and purified terephthalic acid, used as a
raw material for polyester, Religare Institutional Research said
in an April 21 report.  The expansion to 18,154 kilotons a year would account for
about 55 percent of India’s estimated petrochemicals demand in
the year ending March 2016, according to the report. A quarter
of Reliance’s sales in the year ended March 2011 were from
petrochemicals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the nation’s biggest refiner, and  Haldia
Petrochemicals Ltd. , near Kolkata, are rival producers of
chemicals including polymers and polyethylene.  Petroleum Coke  Reliance also plans to build a plant that will turn
petroleum coke, an oil byproduct produced at the refinery’s
coker unit, into synthesis gas, which is cheaper than imported
liquefied natural gas, according to the company. Using synthesis
gas, or syngas, will reduce cost of refining and add about $3 a
barrel to the company’s refining margins, according to Religare.  “Investment in petroleum coke gasification will lower the
cost of running its facilities,” said Sandeep Randery, an
analyst with Brics Securities Ltd. in Mumbai, who advises
investors to buy Reliance shares. “The petrochemical expansion
will strengthen its presence and help gain some market share.
Both expansions should be value accretive over time.”  Ambani, 55, last year took on  BP Plc (BP/)  as a partner to help
reverse the slump in gas output at its biggest deposit and to
develop new exploration areas off India’s east coast.  Technical Difficulties  Gas production at the Reliance-operated KG-D6 deepwater
block in the  Bay of Bengal  was 34.7 million cubic meters a day
last quarter, 14 percent lower than the preceding three months,
Batlivala & Karani Securities Pvt. Ltd. said in an April 21
report.  Output peaked at about 60 million cubic meters a day in
June 2010 and has declined because of technical difficulties and
a drop in pressure at the reservoir, according to Reliance.  The company could cut its proved reserves by as much as 15
percent because some discoveries are too small to be
commercially viable, the Batlivala & Karani report said.  Reliance  sold  a 30 percent stake in 21 fields, including
KG-D6, to BP for $7.2 billion to get access to the London-based
explorer’s technology. The partners are preparing a plan to
develop various discoveries within the block simultaneously
instead of in phases, according to Reliance. The plan will be
submitted to the government for approval in the second half of
the current financial year.  The partners won government approvals in the first two
months of this year to develop four satellite discoveries and
one in an area called the R-Series within the KG-D6 block.  Margin Pressure  “Reliance is currently facing margin pressure in all of
its main business areas,” said Taina Erajuuri, a Helsinki-based
 fund manager  at FIM Asset Management that oversees about $1.2
billion in  emerging markets . “An increase in domestic gas
production could be a positive trigger for the stock.”  The company, which also operates retail stores and owns a
cricket team, is diversifying into telecommunications, media,
financial services and hotels. Chairman Ambani, worth $22.4
billion, lost his position as Asia’s richest man to  Li Ka-Shing 
after the Hong Kong-based Chairman of  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s
wealth increased 8.1 percent this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg  “Reliance needs to do all it can now to increase its
profit,” said Rina Sanghavi, a Kolkata-based analyst at SPA
Securities Ltd. “Expansion in their core business, where they
have expertise and historically earned money from, is definitely
a good idea.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  