-- Lamborghini Introduces Urus, Its First SUV in Two Decades
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-04-22T16:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/lamborghini-introduces-urus-its-first-suv-in-two-decades.html
Lamborghini SpA unveiled its first
sport-utility vehicle in almost two decades as the Italian
supercar maker looks to expand its lineup to tap rising demand
from  emerging markets .  The  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  unit unveiled the concept SUV, called the
Urus, in Beijing yesterday before this week’s auto show in the
Chinese capital. Lamborghini sees potential sales of 3,000
vehicles a year for the SUV, Chief Executive Officer Stephan Winkelmann said at a company presentation. A final decision to
produce the vehicle hasn’t been made, he said.  “If you’re going to enter a new segment, you have to
remain true to your core values,” said Winkelmann. “Our core
values are uncompromising, extreme and Italian.”  Lamborghini joins Bentley Motors Ltd. and  Fiat SpA (F) ’s
Maserati in super-sizing their supercars a decade after Porsche
broke with tradition and rolled out the Cayenne in 2002. The
German maker of the 911 sports car now counts on the SUV for
half its deliveries.  Demand for luxury SUVs, including the Cayenne and Mercedes-
Benz GL-Class, is forecast to climb 49 percent in  China  to
265,200 units in 2015, almost three times the 18 percent growth
in global sales for those vehicles, according to IHS Automotive.  Bentley’s Model  Bentley, another Volkswagen luxury brand, displayed its own
SUV concept at the International Motor Show in Geneva last
month. China became the company’s biggest market in the first
quarter after sales surpassed deliveries in the U.S. for the
first time, according to Chong Got, executive director of
Bentley China.  Maserati will start production in 2013 of a Jeep-based SUV,
currently called the Kubang, while Ferrari SpA last year added
the 260,000-euro ($344,000) FF family car, its largest model.  Porsche, which expects to double global sales to 200,000
units by 2018, counts China as its largest market for the
Panamera four-door sports car and the Cayenne. The carmaker
expects the number of Chinese dealerships to reach 60 by the end
of the year from 41 now, Bernhard Maier, the Stuttgart, Germany-
based carmaker’s sales chief, told reporters in Beijing
yesterday.  Lamborghini discontinued the boxy LM002 SUV -- dubbed the
Rambo Lambo -- in 1993 after a failed effort to make military
vehicles.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  