-- Amylin Said to Seek Buyers After Rejecting Bristol-Myers
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-04-23T20:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/amylin-said-to-seek-buyers-after-rejecting-bristol-offer.html
Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) , the
maker of the diabetes drugs Bydureon and Byetta, is seeking a
buyer after rejecting an unsolicited bid from  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) , two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Amylin has hired Credit Suisse Group AG and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. to help solicit possible offers, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private.  A number of drugmakers are considering whether to acquire
San Diego-based Amylin to gain access to its diabetes franchise,
according to another person familiar with the talks. Amylin
began reaching out to potential buyers last week, one of the
people said.  One company discussing a possible bid internally is Sanofi,
though the Paris-based drugmaker is hesitant because Byetta,
Amylin’s GLP-1 diabetes treatment, would compete with Sanofi’s
similar experimental treatment, lixisenatide, according to a
person familiar with the company’s deliberations who asked to
remain anonymous because the talks are private.  Amylin gained 14 percent to $26.06 at 4 p.m. New York time,
for the biggest increase since March 28, the day Bristol-Myers’
bid was reported.  Amylin doesn’t comment on market rumors or speculation,
said Alice Izzo, a company spokeswoman. Spokesmen for Credit
Suisse and Goldman Sachs declined to comment. Jean-Marc Podvin,
a spokesman for Sanofi in Paris, declined to comment.  Icahn Sues  AstraZeneca Plc is in talks with several companies about
possible licensing deals and acquisitions, Shaun Grady, the U.K.
drugmaker’s head of business development, said in a telephone
interview today. He declined to comment about whether Amylin is
among those companies.  Amylin rejected an offer of $22 a share from New York-based
Bristol-Myers in February, people with knowledge of the bid said
last month.  That prompted a lawsuit by billionaire investor  Carl Icahn 
earlier this month over a corporate bylaw that hamstrings
Amylin’s investors from pursuing a proxy fight.  Icahn, who is Amylin’s third-largest  shareholder , contends
the drugmaker’s directors should be barred from enforcing a rule
requiring advance notice of candidates for board seats since
Amylin failed to make Bristol-Myers’s bid public before the
filing deadline.  Icahn, who has targeted at least seven drug companies in
the past five years, has urged Amylin to pursue a sale.  Amylin  shares  gained 78 percent in the past 12 months
before today, jumping 54 percent on March 28, its biggest
single-day increase since 1999, after it was reported the
company rejected the bid from Bristol-Myers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  