-- Manchester City Cuts Gap Atop Premier League as United Stumbles
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-04-22T23:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/man-city-wins-to-close-gap-on-manchester-utd-atop-league.html
Manchester City  beat Wolverhampton
Wanderers 2-0 to cut the gap on Premier League leader Manchester
United to three points as its rival was held to a 4-4 tie by
Everton. Wolves are relegated.  Sergio Aguero  and  Samir Nasri  scored for City at Molineux
yesterday, with the result confirming that Wolves will drop to
English soccer’s second tier. United allowed two late goals to
dent its bid for a record-extending 20th championship.  City manager  Roberto Mancini  said he still sees United as
the favorite to win the title.  “We are there, but I think they have a bigger chance than
us at the moment,” Mancini told Sky Sports. “Now to the end we
have three very difficult games.”  United has 83 points with three matches to play, with City
on 80 points. City hosts United on April 30 and a victory will
lift it to the top of the standings on goal difference.  In yesterday’s other match, Liverpool missed an opportunity
to move above Everton into seventh spot as it lost 1-0 at home
to West Bromwich Albion.  United appeared set for an eighth straight home league win
as it led 4-2 with less than 10 minutes remaining. Everton then
rallied with goals from Nikica Jelavic and Steven Pienaar at Old
Trafford, then City took advantage to keep the title race alive.  “We just needed to see the game out and it was a travesty
because some of our football was fantastic,” United manager
 Alex Ferguson  told MUTV. “To give away four goals at Old
Trafford in a home game like that, which was so important to us,
is unbelievable.”  Wayne Rooney  netted twice to move ahead of George Best in
United’s list of all-time top scorers, with  Danny Welbeck  and
Nani also scoring. Jelavic opened the scoring for Everton, with
Marouane Fellaini getting its other goal.  Early Chances  Everton created early chances, with  Leon Osman  having a
shot blocked by Rio Ferdinand and goalkeeper David de Gea making
a save from Jelavic. Nani had United’s opening two efforts,
while Rooney headed wide from a Patrice Evra cross.  The Toffees continued to press and Ferdinand twice had to
intervene to keep them out.  Jelavic got his seventh goal since a January move from
Glasgow’s Rangers to break the deadlock with a header over De
Gea at the back post from a cross by Tony Hibbert.  Rooney then got his team’s opening goal with a diving
header four minutes before halftime and the hosts took the lead
on 57 minutes when Welbeck collected the ball near the edge of
the area and curled a shot into the top corner of the net.  Nani Chip  Nani increased United’s advantage three minutes later with
a chip over Howard, before Everton responded as Hibbert provided
a cross for Fellaini to volley past De Gea.  Rooney scored the fourth goal in 13 minutes with his 33rd
of the season. He now has 180 goals for the club, only trailing
Jack Rowley, Denis Law and 249-goal  Bobby Charlton .  Evra headed against the post with 10 minutes remaining, and
seventh-place Everton scored soon after through Jelavic, before
Pienaar took advantage of poor marking to earn his team a point.  “We’ve given City the initiative, there’s no question
about that,” Ferguson said.  At Molineux,  Carlos Tevez  had the game’s first chance in
the opening minute, firing just over the bar from long-range.
Wolves defender  Sebastien Bassong  had a shot deflected wide soon
after.  Aguero and Nasri both shot narrowly wide for the visitors,
and Tevez had a low shot saved by Dorus de Vries, while Wolves’
David Davis tested Joe Hart from the edge of the area.  Opening Goal  The opening goal came on 27 minutes, Aguero’s 29th of the
season. The Argentinean controlled a cross from Gael Clichy and
slipped the ball past De Vries. City dominated the remainder of
the first half.  Nasri secured City’s win with a 74th-minute goal, ending a
three-year spell in the top flight for Wolves.  Last-place Wolves has 23 points from 35 games, Bolton 30
from 33 and Blackburn 31 from 35, with Queens Park Rangers and
Wigan both three points clear of the relegation positions with
three matches to play.  Aston Villa  has 36 points from 34 games.  Liverpool suffered its third home defeat of the season,
with  Peter Odemwingie  scoring the only goal at Anfield. It was
West Brom’s seventh away victory.  Two days ago, Arsenal and Chelsea tied 0-0, Newcastle beat
Stoke City 3-0, and Tottenham lost 1-0 at QPR.  Blackburn beat Norwich 2-0, Fulham defeated Wigan 2-1,
Bolton and Swansea drew 1-1, while the match between Villa and
Sunderland was scoreless.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 