-- Manchester United Ties 4-4 Against Everton in Premier League
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-04-22T14:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/manchester-united-ties-4-4-against-everton-in-premier-league.html
Manchester United was held to a 4-4
tie by Everton in the Premier League today, potentially hurting
its bid to secure a record 20th English soccer championship.  United led by two goals with seven minutes remaining before
Nikica Jelavic and Steven Pienaar scored for the visiting
Toffees at Old Trafford.  United holds a six-point lead atop the standings over
second-place Manchester City, which can halve the gap with a win
at  Wolverhampton Wanderers  later today. City then hosts United
on April 30.  Wayne Rooney  netted twice, moving ahead of George Best in
United’s list of all-time top scorers, with  Danny Welbeck  and
Nani also scoring. Jelavic had opened the scoring for Everton,
with Marouane Fellaini getting its other goal.  Everton created a couple of early chances today, with Leon Osman having a shot blocked by Rio Ferdinand, then goalkeeper
David de Gea making a save from Jelavic.  Nani had United’s opening two efforts, while Rooney headed
wide from a Patrice Evra cross.  The Toffees, without an away win against United since 1992,
continued to press and Ferdinand twice had to make important
interventions to keep them out.  Jelavic got his seventh goal since a January move from
Glasgow’s Rangers to break the deadlock. The Croatian striker
lifted a header over De Gea at the back post from a cross by
Tony Hibbert.  United’s  Paul Scholes  almost scored a minute later with a
deflected shot, but goalkeeper  Tim Howard  managed to hold onto
the ball. Rooney also had a chance before getting his team’s
opening goal with a diving header.  United Lead  The hosts took the lead on 57 minutes when Welbeck
collected the ball near the edge of the penalty area and curled
a shot into the top corner of the net.  Nani increased United’s advantage three minutes later with
a chip over Howard, but Everton responded as Hibbert provided a
cross for Fellaini to volley past De Gea.  Rooney completed a spell of four goals in 13 minutes with
his 33rd of the season. He now has 180 goals for the club, only
trailing Jack Rowley, Denis Law and 249-goal  Bobby Charlton .  Evra headed against the post with 10 minutes remaining, and
seventh-place Everton scored soon after through Jelavic, before
Pienaar took advantage of poor marking to earn his team a point.  Yesterday, Arsenal and Chelsea tied 0-0, Newcastle beat
Stoke City 3-0, and Tottenham lost 1-0 at Queens Park Rangers.  Blackburn beat Norwich 2-0, Fulham defeated Wigan 2-1,
Bolton and Swansea drew 1-1, while the match between Aston Villa
and Sunderland was scoreless.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 