-- Anti-Euro Le Pen’s Record Vote to Weigh on French Election
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-04-23T10:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/anti-euro-le-pen-s-record-vote-set-to-weigh-on-french-election.html
Almost one in five French voters
cast their ballots for National Front leader Marine Le Pen’s
call to abandon the euro and turn her country into an anti-
immigrant fortress.  While that wasn’t enough to propel her into the final round
of the presidential election, her party’s record 17.9 percent
showing make her supporters key to the May 6 runoff between
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and Socialist Francois Hollande.  “We have blown apart the monopoly of the two parties of
banking, finance and multinationals,” Le Pen said last night,
declining to endorse either candidate. “Nothing will ever be
the same.”  A lawyer by training, Le Pen, 43, led a campaign against
both Hollande and Sarkozy, pledging to bring back the French
franc, tighten borders against immigration and pull away from
European treaties. While she failed to shock the establishment
by making it into the second round like her father did in 2002,
she still got about 68 percent more votes than he did in 2007.
Her views are likely to color the election debate.  Already yesterday Sarkozy touched on immigration and crime
as issues he is likely to focus on in his campaign, referring to
a “crisis of immigration” and calling for greater border
controls. National Front voters should “look closely at what
they want,” French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said today. The
choice is between an excessive welfare state proposed by
Hollande and a competitive country under Sarkozy, he said.  Europe Bashing  For his part, Hollande blamed Sarkozy’s economic and social
policies for the rise of the National Front.  Hollande won 28.6 percent of the vote against 27.1 percent
for Sarkozy, the  interior ministry  said. Le Pen said she will
outline in Paris on May 1 her position for second-round voting.  Le Pen, a member of the European Parliament, has
concentrated a large part of her campaigning against Europe and
has repeatedly criticized the close relations between Sarkozy
and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  Europe is a “country-killing grinding machine, a machine
that has killed our prosperity and our democracy,” she told
supporters in Henin-Beaumont in northern  France  April 15.  She has blamed the euro for France’s 12-year-high jobless
rate and factory closures, rejecting a December treaty agreed to
by European countries for closer fiscal ties to resolve the
region’s sovereign debt crisis.  “I would review all of the European treaties and rip up
the new ones that Nicolas Sarkozy has accepted behind the backs
of the French people,” Le Pen said. “The horrible stability
pact condemns us to pay endlessly for the countries that are
victim of the euro.”  Taking Back Power  Le Pen would cut French debt partly through national
central bank lending. She’d seek savings by cutting European
Union payments, raising company taxes, and cracking down on
welfare fraud.  “Sarkozy and Hollande and their allies are in favor of the
 Europe  of Brussels; I prefer France,” Le Pen has said, pledging
to take back powers transferred to Europe including currency,
borders, trade, industrial policy, immigration and justice.  Le Pen has tried to remake the party, which was
historically based on anti-immigration policies, in a bid to
attract more mainstream voters who blame Europe and porous
borders for many of the country’s woes.  France accepts about 200,000 immigrants a year, about 0.3
percent of the country’s population. Le Pen wants to cut that to
10,000 annually.  Disconnected  Her father, who headed the National Front until last year,
made it into the second round of the French presidential
election in 2002, losing to  Jacques Chirac , and garnered 10.4
percent of the vote in 2007. Jean-Marie was condemned by a
French court in 1991 for denying the Holocaust.  “The economic, political and social situation is very
serious,” her father said after last night’s results were
announced. “There needs to be a return of policies that put
France first.”  In campaign speeches, Le Pen has taken aim at both Sarkozy
and Hollande, accusing them of looking out for the interests of
privileged Parisians and neglecting concerns of average French
workers. Bankers, media personalities, multinational bosses and
soccer stars have come under Le Pen’s criticism for being rich
while “honest” workers suffer.  Sarkozy and Hollande are “completely disconnected from the
French people,” she said. “I am the only one in this election
who offers another choice.”  ‘Rejecting the System’  Winning over as many as possible of her voters will be key
to Sarkozy’s chances of beating Hollande, who can count on the
support of Communist-backed candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon and
three other first-round contenders.  “Le Pen supporters are rejecting the system,” said
 Laurent Dubois , a professor at the Institute of Political
Studies in Paris. “If Sarkozy tries to appeal to them, he’ll
give up the center.”  While many Le Pen supporters may abstain, some say they’ll
throw their lot with Sarkozy. About 57 percent of Le Pen voters
will back Sarkozy in the second round, 23 percent will abstain
and 20 percent will back Hollande, according to BVA’s survey.  “I voted for Marine Le Pen in the first round, and I will
vote Sarkozy in the second,” Roger Trasleglise, 83, a retired
jeweler, said yesterday after casting his ballot in Paris. “She
had no chance of going on to the second round, but still she
could give her ideas to the winner.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  