-- Aussie Drops as Producer Prices Fall Before CPI Data
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-04-23T05:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/aussie-kiwi-dollars-set-for-week-loss-on-europe-concern.html
Australia ’s dollar and yields on
the country’s government bonds extended declines after a report
showed the nation’s producer price index unexpectedly fell.  The so-called Aussie weakened against all of its 16 major
peers before data forecast to show consumer price inflation
remained within the Reserve Bank’s target range last quarter,
opening the door to interest-rate cuts to spur growth. New
Zealand’s dollar declined ahead of a central bank meeting this
week, with policy makers forecast to leave  interest rates 
unchanged at a record low.  “We may not just have one more rate cut, the first one in
early May, but there may be a second in June, because our
economy is growing below trend,” Hans Kunnen, chief economist
at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney said of  Reserve Bank  of
Australia policy. “The key for the Reserve Bank and everybody
is if there are inflationary pressures. The Aussie may be a
touch softer over the week.”  The Australian dollar fell 0.4 percent to $1.0339 as of
3:16 p.m. in Sydney from the close in  New York . It dropped 0.7
percent to 84.08 yen. New Zealand’s dollar declined 0.3 percent
to 81.61 U.S. cents from April 20, when it jumped 0.6 percent.
The so-called kiwi lost 0.6 percent to 66.37 yen.  Australia’s government bonds  advanced , pushing the yield on
the 10-year security down by as much as seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 3.76 percent, the lowest since Feb. 3.
The five-year yield touched 3.25 percent, the least since Dec.
30, and the rate on two-year government notes fell to 3.18
percent, the lowest since Feb. 1.  Unexpected Drop  The nation’s producer price index dropped 0.3 percent in
the January-to-March period from the prior quarter, when it
gained 0.3 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. The median estimate of 17 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was a 0.4 percent increase. The index rose 1.4
percent in the first quarter from year earlier, less than the
median forecast of 2.2 percent.  The index confirms “the lack of upstream price pressures
in the economy and further points to the RBA cutting rates next
week, as long as tomorrow’s CPI does not come in surprisingly
high,”  Spiros Papadopoulos , senior economist at  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , wrote in a note to clients today.  The  consumer price index  probably rose 0.7 percent in the
first quarter from the previous three months, according to
economists’ estimates before the data tomorrow. Prices were 2.2
percent higher than a year earlier, the survey indicated. The
RBA targets 2 percent to 3 percent annual inflation.  RBA Policy  The RBA on April 13 held its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 4.25 percent, in line with economist estimates. A
 Credit Suisse Group AG index  based on swaps indicates traders
are betting the central bank will lower rates by 97 basis
points, or 0.97 percentage point, over the next 12 months,
compared with 38 basis points indicated on March 20.  New Zealand ’s consumer prices in the first quarter
increased 0.5 percent from the previous three-month period,
according to a report by  Statistics New Zealand  on April 19. The
central bank targets annual inflation of 1 percent to 3 percent.
Reserve Bank of New Zealand policy makers will meet on April 26.
Last month, central bank Governor Alan Bollard forecast the cash
rate would be unchanged for much of 2012.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, slid 2 1/2 basis points to 2.875
percent, the least since Feb. 16.  IMF Funding  Losses in the South Pacific nations’ currencies were
limited after Group of 20 officials agreed to add more than $430
billion to the  International Monetary Fund  to help it protect
the global economy against  Europe ’s debt crisis. The near-
doubling of the IMF’s firepower was announced after G-20 finance
ministers and central bankers met in  Washington .  “What we’re building is a wall against the rains and the
flood arising in terms of structural issues facing various
nations in Europe,” said St. George’s Kunnen. “It’s difficult
for me to see how the $430 billion will actually change the
game, but it certainly adds a positive tone.”  China supports boosting funding for the IMF while stressing
that the Washington-based lender must continue implementing
reforms as a condition for specific cash commitments, People’s
Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said April 21. On the
domestic economy,  China ’s growth outlook “remains positive,”
Zhou said.  A Chinese manufacturing index was at 49.1 for April from
48.3 in March, according to a preliminary reading of  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index reported by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics today. A result below 50 indicates a contraction.
China is Australia’s biggest trading partner and New Zealand’s
second-largest export market.  -- Editors: Jonathan Annells, Naoto Hosoda  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  