-- Australian Parliamentary Speaker Steps Aside in Gillard Blow
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-04-23T06:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/australian-speaker-steps-aside-after-harassment-fraud-claims.html
Australia’s parliamentary speaker,
 Peter Slipper , stepped aside after allegations of sexual
harassment and expenses fraud, weakening Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s grip on power and ability to pass legislation.  Deputy Speaker Anna Burke, a lawmaker from Gillard’s  Labor
party , will replace Slipper as he contests the claims, he said
in a statement yesterday. He denied allegations in a Federal
Court lawsuit that he made “unwelcome sexual advances” toward
a male adviser and misused taxpayer-funded travel vouchers.  Gillard’s minority government has been relying on Slipper
to boost its numbers in the lower house since he defected from
the opposition coalition to become speaker in November. His
decision to step aside to fight the claims means Labor, already
battling near record-low poll ratings, faces losing its one-seat
majority when parliament reconvenes next month and debates the
annual budget on May 8.  “It makes it more difficult for Gillard to manage the
parliament with the speaker tainted, and it makes her government
look as if it’s almost unmanageable,” said John Wanna, a
professor of public administration at the  Australian National
University  in Canberra. “It keeps clouds hanging over the
Gillard government but it’s not necessarily terminal.”  Police Probe  In the April 20 lawsuit, James Ashby, who started working
for Slipper in December, alleges he made “unwelcome sexual
comments” and “unwelcome suggestions of a sexual nature”
between January and March 2012. He also accuses Slipper of
handing signed, blank travel vouchers to the driver of a vehicle
in which they travelled. Australian police said they will probe
the allegations of expenses fraud.  “The allegations include both a claim of criminal behavior
and a claim under civil law,” Slipper said in his statement.
“It is appropriate for me to stand aside as speaker while this
criminal allegation is resolved.”  Slipper, who in his  role  enforces rules and procedures,
said he will return to the position when the criminal
allegations are proven to be false.  Gillard’s ‘Integrity’  Tony Abbott , leader of the Liberal-National opposition,
said the matter raised fresh questions about the “integrity”
of the government and the prime minister.  Gillard backed Slipper in the speaker’s role in a
“desperate bid to shore up her own numbers and seems to
indicate this is a prime minister who will do anything, anything
at all to assist her position in the parliament,” Abbott said
in an interview with the Seven Network today.  Gillard, in  Singapore  for talks with government officials,
said in a statement yesterday that Slipper’s decision to step
aside was “appropriate.”  The opposition leader sought to link the Slipper affair to
another that’s overshadowing the government -- allegations
against Labor lawmaker Craig Thomson. He denies claims he used a
union credit card to pay for prostitutes before entering
parliament in 2007.  Abbott is demanding that Gillard pressures Thomson to
cooperate with police inquiries and to ensure a report by
 Australia ’s workplace tribunal, which is probing the affair, is
released immediately.  Minority Government  Support for Labor sat near a record low in an opinion
survey published last week before an election required by the
end of 2013. Labor’s support of 29 percent trails Abbott’s
coalition by 19 percentage points, according to a Newspoll
published in the  Australian newspaper  April 17.  Gillard formed a government in 2010 after the nation’s
closest election in seven decades ended Labor’s majority. She
has had to rely on the support of independent and Greens
lawmakers to secure the 75 votes needed to pass legislation in
the 150-member  House of Representatives .  The Greens party and two of those independent lawmakers,
 Tony Windsor  and  Rob Oakeshott , today reiterated their support
for the government, the  Associated Press  reported.  In November 2011, Gillard gained a two-seat majority after
then-speaker  Harry Jenkins , a Labor lawmaker, quit and was
replaced by Slipper. That majority was cut to one in January
when independent lawmaker  Andrew Wilkie  withdrew his allegiance
to Gillard, saying she broke a promise to tighten gambling laws.  ‘Knife Edge’  Australia’s constitution only allows the speaker to vote if
the lower house is tied. Gillard has now lost Burke’s vote on
the floor two weeks before the government seeks to pass a budget
attempting to deliver a surplus in the 12 months through June
next year.  “They’re going to just slide away from the narrow control
onto a knife edge where it would be a day-by-day game,” said
John Uhr, director of the Centre for the Study of Australian
Politics at the Australian National University.  According to Ashby’s claim, Slipper used the same vehicle
for travel in Sydney in January and February and on three
occasions passed several signed dockets to the driver, without
detailing the cost of the trip.  “The Australian Federal Police is aware of the new
allegations of fraud and will be taking action to assess this
information,” a spokeswoman for the AFP said by phone
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  