-- Bahrain Protesters Burn Tires Ahead of Grand Prix Race
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-04-22T08:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/bahrain-protesters-burn-tires-ahead-of-grand-prix-race.html
Bahrain’s opposition burned tires
in Shiite villages today, hours ahead of a Grand Prix race in
which  King Hamad  is expected to attend.  A government helicopter circled the capital Manama and
several villages in the early morning. The mostly Shiite
opposition has stepped up its anti-regime protests, calling for
the race to be canceled until reforms are introduced.  This year’s Grand Prix has highlighted the differences that
have riven this island nation since anti-regime protests began
in February 2011. The 2011 race in Bahrain was canceled due to
the clashes.  Al-Wefaq, the largest Shiite group, accused government
security forces yesterday of killing Salah Abbas Habib, 36,
during a “brutal” April 20 crackdown on an evening protest in
Shakhoura. “Some of the participants were cruelly beaten by
different tools and weapons,” al-Wefaq said in a statement.  The  Interior Ministry  said Habib was found with a wound to
his left side, according to the Information Affairs Authority.
It said the ministry is investigating the death and asked “that
people await the results of the autopsy and further updates
rather than relying on speculation, including rumors spread
through social media.”  The government quashed last year’s rallies by mostly Shiite
demonstrators demanding equal rights and representation. Small
demonstrations still take place regularly in Shiite
neighborhoods, sometimes spilling into commercial areas of
Manama.  Acts of violence have intensified in the run-up to the
Grand Prix, the biggest international event in the kingdom since
last year’s crackdown.  King Hamad said he was personally committed to “reform and
reconciliation in our great country,” according to an e-mailed
statement from the Information Affairs Authority.  “The door is always open for sincere dialogue among all
our people,” the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  