-- Blues Reach Round Two; Top-Seeded Rangers Near Elimination
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-22T05:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/blues-reach-round-two-top-seeded-rangers-near-elimination.html
The  St. Louis Blues  advanced to the
second round in the National Hockey League’s Stanley Cup
playoffs with a 3-1 win over the  San Jose Sharks , while the top-
seeded  New York Rangers  near elimination.  The Ottawa Senators defeated the Eastern Conference-leading
Rangers 2-0 yesterday; the Washington Capitals topped the Boston
Bruins 4-3; the Florida Panthers beat the New Jersey Devils 3-0.
The winners all have 3-2 leads in their best-of-seven series.  The Chicago Blackhawks avoided elimination with a 2-1 win
in overtime against the Phoenix Coyotes, who take a 3-2 lead in
their series to Chicago tomorrow for Game 6. Jonathan Toews got
the winning goal 2 minutes, 44 seconds into overtime.  Gilbert Brule scored his first playoff goal to give the
Coyotes a 1-0 lead in the second period, while Nick Leddy’s
initial playoff goal tied the score at 1-1 midway through the
third period at Jobing.com Arena in Glendale, Arizona.  At Scottrade Center in  St. Louis , Jamie Langenbrunner,
David Perron and Andy McDonald each scored a goal in the final
period for the Blues. Joe Thornton gave the Sharks a 1-0 lead
with 41 seconds left in the second period.  Senators’ Jason Spezza scored his first two playoff goals
as Ottawa shut out the Rangers at New York’s Madison Square
Garden. Spezza hit the net midway through the first period and
again with 54 seconds left in the game.  ‘Things Happen’  “Things happen for a reason and these types of situations,
as you continue to go further in the playoffs, help you,”
Rangers coach  John Tortorella  told reporters. “I couldn’t be
happier as far as how hard we played. I thought we re-identified
ourselves as a team.”  The Rangers visit the Senators tomorrow when they will try
to avoid elimination with a Game 6 victory.  “It’s been a tight series all along, so we have to regroup
and we have to sit down and talk about a few things and get
ready,” said Rangers goalie  Henrik Lundqvist , who had 28 saves.
“This is far from over.”  At TD Garden in  Boston , Troy Brouwer broke a 3-3 tie to
give the Capitals the winning goal with 87 seconds left in the
third period. Washington had a 2-0 lead with goals by Alexander Semin and Jay Beagle in the second period until Dennis Seidenberg and Brad Marchand answered with Bruin scores 28
seconds apart to tie the game at 2-2.  Johnny Boychuk tied the game again in the third period five
minutes after Mike Knuble gave the Capitals a 3-2 advantage.  The Capitals host the Bruins today as they seek to win the
series in Game 6.  At BankAtlantic Center in Sunrise, Florida, Kris Versteeg,
Scottie Upshall and Tomas Kopecky gave the Panthers their
shutout against the Devils.  The Panthers visit the Devils where they will try to
eliminate  New Jersey  in Game 6.  In other games today, the  Philadelphia Flyers  hold a 3-2
series advantage as they host the  Pittsburgh Penguins , and the
Los Angeles Kings try to advance to round two with a victory
over the  Vancouver Canucks  in Game 5 on home ice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  