-- Bundesbank’s Weidmann Says What No Politician Wants to Hear
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-04-23T16:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/bundesbank-s-weidmann-says-what-no-eu-politician-wants-to-hear.html
Jens Weidmann is no longer his
master’s voice.  Almost a year into his new job as the head of Germany’s
Bundesbank, Weidmann, 44, has matured from Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s discreet right-hand man at global economic meetings
into one of the few European policy makers warning that
governments are failing to do what’s needed to rescue the euro.  Weidmann’s public criticism of measures such as the
“fiscal compact” -- hailed by its architects as the first step
to economic union -- has pitted him against Merkel and European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  as they struggle to hold the
17-nation euro region together. With Europe in recession and
rising Spanish bond yields threatening to reignite the debt
crisis after a three-month lull, the Bundesbank’s youngest-ever
president says greater fiscal and monetary rectitude is the only
way to win back investors’ trust.  “When he was appointed, the press pounced on him and cried
‘Merkel’s man’ because he had worked for her for a few years,”
said Manfred Neumann, the professor of international economics
at Bonn University who supervised Weidmann’s 1997 doctoral
thesis and says he still talks with his former student. “He has
shown that he isn’t.”  Weidmann’s arrival on the 12th floor of the Bundesbank’s
landmark building in Frankfurt on May 1, 2011, may have been
more of a homecoming than a departure.  ‘Culture of Stability’  From 2003 to 2006, he led the central bank’s monetary
policy and analysis division, serving under presidents  Ernst Welteke  and  Axel Weber , one of his former professors and the man
who recommended Weidmann to Merkel. He shared what he learned on
his first day in charge, referring to the historic German
anxiety about  inflation  that still stokes public mistrust of the
joint currency.  “First of all, the Bundesbank stands for a culture of
stability,” Weidmann said during his inauguration speech.
Welteke, accepting the same post 12 years earlier in the infancy
of the euro, said the Bundesbank’s job was to bring that culture
to the rest of Europe.  For Weidmann, that has often meant saying no. With Spanish
government officials and French presidential candidates pressing
the ECB for additional help as borrowing costs increase, his
stand may be tested.  Political Pressure  Francois Hollande , who is leading incumbent French
President Nicolas Sarkozy in opinion polls before elections that
conclude May 6, said April 20 that the ECB should cut  interest
rates  and begin lending directly to governments to promote
growth. In  Spain , where bond yields are soaring, officials have
started to call for the ECB to resume its asset-purchase
program.  Governments have consistently looked to the ECB to battle
the debt crisis and Weidmann has consistently been the man in
the way. When the crisis spread last year to Italy and Spain,
the euro area’s third- and fourth-largest economies, Weidmann
opposed the ECB’s decision to intervene in bond markets and
publicly slammed a proposal to allow the region’s bailout fund
to borrow from the central bank.  “The idea that the required money will be created through
the printing press should finally be brushed aside,” he said in
a speech in Berlin in December. “Doing that would threaten the
most important foundation for a stable currency: the
independence of a price-stability focused central bank.”  No ‘Panacea’  Speaking in  New York  today, Weidmann pushed back against
calls for the ECB to do more to fight the crisis.  “ Monetary policy  is not a panacea and central bank
firepower is not unlimited, especially not in a monetary
union,” he said. “We can only win back confidence if we bring
down excessive deficits and boost competitiveness. And it is
precisely because these things are unpopular that makes it so
tempting for politicians to rely instead on monetary
accommodation.”  Weidmann hasn’t spared Draghi or Merkel, who has vowed to
prevent a breakup of the currency union and put the most money
on the line for bailouts and financial backstops.  When European leaders agreed on the fiscal compact
championed by Merkel in late January, Draghi said it was “the
first step toward the fiscal union” and would “strengthen
confidence in the euro area.”  Weidmann said it fell short.  “Obviously in the negotiations, as often in the past,
things were watered down,” he said on Feb. 1. “It’s clear that
the cornerstone for a real fiscal union hasn’t been laid here.”  Fiscal Rules  For Weidmann, putting  Europe ’s monetary union on a sound
footing involves governments either giving up some sovereignty
over national budgets or setting stricter fiscal rules and
ensuring they’re enforced.  Neither has happened yet, he said during a March 28 speech
at  Chatham House  in  London . While charming his audience with
humor and a down-to-earth style, Weidmann offered a sobering
assessment.  “The time has come to move from containing the crisis to
resolving it,” he said. “If we have the will to make the right
choices, we will be able to rebalance Europe and lay the
foundation for a stronger, more stable monetary union.”  A graduate of the 193-year-old Friedrich Wilhelm University
in Bonn who spent time in France, Africa and at the
 International Monetary Fund , Weidmann was lauded for his
“firmness and negotiating skills” by then French Ambassador
Bernard de Montferrand when he was awarded France’s Legion of
Honor at a ceremony in Berlin in 2009.  Unpalatable Truths  Yet his habit of serving unpalatable truths to former
political masters and fellow monetary policy makers isn’t
winning him friends, said  Nick Kounis , head of macroeconomic
research at ABN Amro in Amsterdam.  “I don’t really think that fellow policy makers are happy
that he’s coming up with this,” said Kounis. “Disagreements on
the Governing Council, especially between the Bundesbank and the
president, can create a lot of uncertainty about the future
course of policy. It can also lead to credibility issues for the
central bank.”  Critics of Weidmann’s approach include billionaire investor
 George Soros , who said rising tensions in financial markets
reflect concern that the Bundesbank is preparing for the end of
the euro.  ‘Self-Fulfilling Prophecy’  The German central bank is campaigning against “indefinite
expansion” of the  money supply  and seeking to limit losses it
would face if the euro splintered, Soros said in a speech in
Berlin on April 12. “This is creating a self-fulfilling
prophecy.”  Things have not gone Weidmann’s way as the debt crisis
presented the ECB with challenges few foresaw.  He was outvoted on Aug. 4 when soaring  yields  in Italy and
Spain prompted the ECB to resume and expand its bond-purchase
program, a decision that prompted chief economist  Juergen Stark ,
a former Bundesbank vice president, to quit.  Weidmann later insisted the ECB should reduce its exposure
to risky assets, which it was accumulating after allowing banks
to use lower-quality collateral for central bank loans.  “The balance sheet of the Eurosystem is burdened with
considerable risks,” he said on Sept. 13. “I am of the
conviction that these should now be reduced and under no
circumstances expanded.”  Six months later, the ECB’s balance sheet had swollen by
almost 40 percent to 3 trillion euros ($3.9 trillion) after
policy makers flooded the banking system with more than 1
trillion euros of three-year loans to help avert a credit
crunch.  Bond Yields  Now there are calls for the ECB to again come to the rescue
as concerns about Spain and Italy mount. Spanish 10-year bond
yields have risen more than a percentage point since the start
of March to exceed 6 percent, and Italy’s have climbed to 5.7
percent.  Germany ’s 10-year borrowing rate has dropped below 1.7
percent.  The ECB “should step up purchases of bonds,” Jaime Garcia-Legaz, a deputy minister in Spain’s Economy Ministry,
said in an interview published April 14.  Weidmann is meanwhile pressing the ECB to come up with an
exit strategy for its stimulus measures and shift the burden of
crisis-fighting back onto governments.  He seems to be winning that battle for now, said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in London who worked at
the ECB from 2008 to 2011.  “In the short term, the Bundesbank can create enough fear
of humiliation within the ECB that it leaves the pressure on the
governments,” he said. “But the crisis has reared its head
again and eventually, that might force the hand of the ECB.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  