-- CBQ's First-Quarter Profit Climbs 6%, Missing Estimates
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-04-22T14:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/cbq-s-first-quarter-profit-climbs-6-missing-estimates.html
     April 22 (Bloomberg) --  Commercial Bank of Qatar QSC , the
Persian Gulf country’s second-biggest bank by assets, said
first-quarter profit climbed 6 percent as interest income rose.  Net income advanced to 471 million riyals from 446 million
riyals a year earlier, the Doha-based lender said today in an e-
mailed statement. The median estimate of three analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was for a profit of 490 million riyals.  Banks in the Persian Gulf emirate have increased lending
amid rising government spending on infrastructure including an
urban redevelopment project, new port, rail system and
petrochemical plants. Qatari bank credit facilities grew an
annual 32 percent in March and customer deposits increased 13
percent, according to central bank data.  “Economic growth in 2012 is expected to be led by the
government’s public sector spending program, including
investment in infrastructure, health and education, which will
be the key driver for growth in the banking sector,” Commercial
Bank Chairman Abdullah Bin Khalifa Al Attiyah said in the
statement.  Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK) , the Persian Gulf country’s largest
lender, said first-quarter profit rose 17 percent to 2 billion
riyals, matching estimates.  Doha Bank QSC (DHBK)  posted a better-than-
expected 7.4 percent increase in first-quarter profit.  Commercial Bank’s net  interest income  increased 7 percent
to 478 million riyals, the bank said. Loans and advances rose 21
percent to 42 billion riyals and deposits increased 25 percent
to 37.9 billion riyals. Net provisions for loans and advances
fell 16 percent and the non-performing loan ratio was 1.22
percent at the end of the quarter.  Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural
gas, had the fastest growing economy the past two years,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Commercial Bank’s stock  slipped 0.4 percent to 74.3 riyals
a share on the Qatar Exchange today before the results were
released. The stock has dropped 12 percent this year compared
with a 0.9 percent decline for the QE Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  