-- Chesapeake 22% Decline Seen Spurred by Personal Conflict
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-04-23T20:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/chesapeake-25-decline-seen-spurred-by-personal-conflict.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  has been adding  oil fields  to
his personal holdings faster than he can find cash to drill
them. He’s steering the company down the same road.  Chesapeake, producer of more U.S. natural gas than any
company except  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , outspent its cash flow in 19
of the past 21 years while amassing millions of acres of
drilling leases from the  Rocky Mountains  to Appalachia.  As the company moved to close this year’s projected funding
gap with $12 billion in planned asset sales, investor criticisms
of McClendon over a potential conflict of interest are stoking
concern about the stability of the company. Chesapeake shares
are down 22 percent this month, heading for the worst  monthly
loss  since 2008, the last time McClendon’s personal finances
intruded on company business.  “Chesapeake is walking a tightrope right now,”  Mark Hanson , an analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview. McClendon “has shown a predilection to
outspend, sometimes recklessly.”  McClendon didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  McClendon has been borrowing against personal stakes in
thousands of company-operated wells to pay his part of drilling
costs. Last week’s disclosures of the loans revived debate over
financial management of a company already burdened with a $10.3
billion net debt load, more than twice the size of Exxon’s and
the lowest price-to-earnings ratio of any independent U.S.
energy producer.  Philip Weiss , an analyst at Argus Research in New York,
said McClendon and the board should be fired.  Free-Falling Gas  McClendon’s loans and the use of his 2.5 percent stakes in
Chesapeake wells as collateral are legal and present no conflict
of interest, according to the company.  Chesapeake has  lost  more than one fifth of its market value
since the end of March as questions about McClendon’s finances
compounded plunging natural-gas prices. Gas for May delivery
settled at $1.927 per million British thermal units on April 20,
a 55 percent decline from a year earlier.  The last time Chesapeake’s stock performed this poorly was
October 2008, after the global financial collapse triggered
margin calls on McClendon’s personal investments.  To raise cash, he sold almost all his Chesapeake stock over
a few days, accelerating a 38 percent plunge for the month. At
the time, the board gave McClendon an $87 million bailout in the
form of a special bonus and by purchasing his collection of
19th-century maps.  Plunging Shares  A “credibility chasm” between Chesapeake’s management and
investors will continue to overshadow the company’s  operating
performance  and will weigh on the share price for at least the
next 12 months, said Tim Rezvan and Ryan Mueller, New York-based
analysts at Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc.  Chesapeake rose 3.2 percent to $18 at the close in  New
York . Directors declined to comment or couldn’t be reached.
McClendon was out of the country yesterday and unavailable for
comment, according to Michael Kehs, Chesapeake’s vice president
of strategic affairs. McClendon is chairman of the nine-person
board.  The 52-year-old McClendon, who ranked 359th on Forbes
magazine’s list of wealthiest Americans last year, has had the
right to buy stakes in Chesapeake wells since 1993. The
arrangement requires the CEO personally to pay a proportionate
share of drilling costs on those wells.  McClendon told the company’s board of directors in
September he will participate again this year in the program the
company said lost him more than $600 million in the past three
years, according to an April 20  public filing .  Well Losses, Cut Pay  During the first quarter, McClendon had $88.1 million in
net losses in the wells program after accounting for capital
expenses, according to the filing. Full-year losses amounted to
$315.3 million, $141.9 million and $116.1 million, respectively,
for 2011, 2010 and 2009. The company also reported it cut
McClendon’s compensation 15 percent last year to $17.86 million
in response to shareholder concerns that he was overpaid.  The well-investment program aligns McClendon’s interests
with the company’s more directly than the stock awards, bonuses
and options used by other companies, Kehs, the Chesapeake vice
president, said in an April 18 e-mail.  “Aubrey puts his money where his mouth is and has real
skin in the game with every well we drill for our
shareholders,” Kehs said.  McClendon now finds himself squeezed between gas prices
close to a 10-year low and expanding commitments to fund his
drilling costs, Hanson said.  Company Lien Protection  “There’s no question that if Aubrey had to come up with
that money on his own there is no way he could,” Hanson said.  Prospects for another CEO bailout are slim, said Scott Sprinzen, a  Standard & Poor’s  debt analyst. S&P’s Sprinzen said.
Chesapeake is unlikely to “again provide what we view as
amounting to extraordinary financial support” he said.  Chesapeake holds first liens on its wells, so if McClendon
were to default on his loans the company is protected from
losing assets, General Counsel Henry J. Hood said on April 18.  “Since Chesapeake is not a party to the loan documents,
the liens and provisions do not reach Chesapeake’s intangible
assets,” Hood said in an e-mailed statement.  Chesapeake had negative  free cash flow  of $8.547 billion in
2011, the 10th consecutive year that outlays exceeded inflows,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Since 1991, the only
years when the company posted positive free  cash flow  were 2000
and 2001. It’s paid its expenses with a combination of operating
income, asset sales and loans.  Selling Future Production  One of Chesapeake’s favorite methods for addressing gaps
between cash flow and  capital spending  has been an instrument
known as a volumetric production payment, or VPP. The
transactions are a type of forward commodity sale that require
Chesapeake to deliver a certain amount of gas or oil over a
given period of time, in exchange for up-front cash.  Without the proceeds from VPPs and planned asset sales,
“massive internal funding shortfalls” this year could reach $9
billion, excluding the proceeds of asset sales and VPPs, Scott
Sprinzen, the S&P analyst, said in an April 20 note.  “Chesapeake’s very aggressive push for growth in reserves
and production has entailed investment that has substantially
outstripped operating cash flow in recent years,” Sprinzen
said.  Off-Balance Sheet Debt  The company has raised $6.4 billion through 10 VPPs
arranged since December 2007. In the most recent such
transaction, Chesapeake agreed to sell  Morgan Stanley (MS)  10 years
of future gas output from a geological formation known as the
Granite Wash for about $745 million, according to an April 9
statement.  The VPPs are a form of off-balance sheet debt and shroud
the company’s actual future liabilities, said Bob Brackett, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York. Weiss of
Argus said the VPPs demonstrate the company “continues to rely
largely on financial engineering transactions to raise cash.”  Chesapeake defended the VPPs in the April 9 statement as a
sound financial tool and a windfall for shareholders. The 10
VPPs enacted since late 2007 yielded about $4.65 per thousand
cubic feet of gas, quadruple the company’s current costs to find
and extract each thousand cubic feet, according to the
statement.  The company’s 7.1  price-to-earnings  ratio is the lowest
among its peers and less than one-third the average for the
group, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has 16
buy ratings from analysts, 16 holds and four sell
recommendations.  Reasons to Sell  All of the  sell recommendations  predated last week’s
disclosures about McClendon’s personal finances by at least
three and a half months.  Sanford Bernstein ’s Brackett has been
the longest-standing pessimist, maintaining his advice that
investors dump Chesapeake stock since he initiated coverage 11
months ago.  “It’s the leveraged balance sheet, the joint ventures, the
off-balance sheet debt, and now the most recent shoe to drop was
corporate governance,” Brackett said in a telephone interview.  Investors who heeded Brackett’s advice to sell in May 2011
avoided a 40 percent loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  