-- China’s Bona Film Sees Hollywood Deals Amid New Rules
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-23T10:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/china-s-bona-film-sees-hollywood-deals-amid-new-rules.html
Bona Film Group Ltd. (BONA) , a Beijing-
based film distributor and producer, is in talks with several
Hollywood studios about co-producing projects and distribution
to help drive future growth.  The Nasdaq-listed company is in discussions with studios
including News Corp.’s Fox,  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount and  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal about “a lot of projects,” founder and
Chairman Yu Dong said in an April 20 interview ahead of today’s
opening of the second Beijing International Film Festival. He
declined to give details.  “It’s a win-win,” Yu said at his office in Beijing. “The
most important thing is for the local Chinese films to cooperate
with Hollywood’s big producers and distributors. They can use
Hollywood’s global distribution network.”  Chinese companies are gearing up for more partnerships with
Hollywood as Western studios seek exposure to one of the world’s
fastest-growing movie markets.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  highlighted the
potential for collaborations with an agreement, one week before
the festival, to co-produce “ Iron Man  3” in China with
Beijing-based DMG Entertainment.  “Every day I have Hollywood producers who come to visit
the office, give me scripts or find investments,” Yu said.  Bona Film’s goal for the next few years is to make as many
as two major co-productions with U.S. studios a year on movies
like “Spider-Man” and “Iron Man,” Yu said.  Beverly Hills Office  Bona Film and Hong Kong actor Andy Lau’s Focus Films co-
produced “ A Simple Life ,” the movie that earned Deanie Ip the
best actress award at last year’s Venice Film Festival. Bona
plans to open an office in  Beverly Hills ,  California , to seek
projects, Yu said.  China, the world’s most populous nation, has drawn more
attention from Hollywood since February, when restrictions on
film imports were loosened and the revenue-sharing formula was
altered. Foreign studios can keep a bigger share of ticket
sales, making the market more attractive, Yu said.  Ticket sales in China  rose about 30 percent to $2 billion
last year, making it the biggest market after the U.S. and
 Japan , according to the  Motion Picture Association  of America.
By comparison, worldwide box-office revenue rose 3.2 percent.  This year’s Beijing International Film Festival will draw
 film-industry  heavyweights like  James Cameron , who directed the
only two movies that have grossed more than $2 billion in
worldwide ticket sales, ‘ ‘Titanic ’’ and ‘ ‘Avatar .’’  “Titanic 3D,” the three-dimensional re-release of the
1997 Cameron epic, has grossed $67 million in China so far, the
biggest opening the country has ever had, according to
researcher  Box Office Mojo . Like many in the Chinese film
industry, Yu said he is interested in making “Avatar 2.”  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox declined to comment.  ‘Avatar 2, 3’  Cameron will focus on making the second and third
installments of “Avatar” together as a single large
presentation, the director said at a press conference in Beijing
today. The director said he would be interested in co-producing
movies in China and would need to weigh  incentives and
restrictions about making films in China.  “There are a number of metrics that need to be met in
terms of content and approvals of scripts and so on. We need to
weight those factors very carefully,” he said.   The November 2009 original went on to be the  top-grossing
movie  in China in 2010, ringing in 1.38 billion yuan ($220
million), the country’s record.  Production Hurdles  Significant hurdles exist. To satisfy Chinese co-production
rules, for example, the movie, which takes place on a fictional
planet called Pandora and involves both live-action and
computer-generated visuals, would have to be filmed partially in
 China  and with some Chinese actors.  Yu expects China’s market to reach $5 billion in the next
five years, he said. That would be half of the about $10 billion
ticket receipts in  North America  in 2011, a figure that has been
 little changed  for at least five years. Bona Film, which also
operates 11 cinemas in China, posted  net income  of $14.6 million
in 2011 on sales of $126.2 million. It had about a 10 percent
share of the box-office last year, boosted by “Flying Swords of
Dragon Gate,” the first Chinese IMAX movie.  Yu, 40, said that one challenge of co-productions is making
U.S. studios understand the Chinese government’s requirement to
alter scripts to meet censors. Ghost stories, explicit sex,
excessive violence and negative themes about the Communist Party
or the government are banned.  Government Censors  “They don’t understand the market,” Yu said. “There are
a lot of problems. How could they want to enter the Chinese
market while they want a Chinese actor to play a villain? Are
you trying to damage the Chinese market?  ‘‘That would be restricted by the government,’’ he said.  Still, Yu said many Hollywood films can easily be co-
produced because they mostly involve universal storytelling
topics such as ‘‘heroes and beauties, the good and the evil,’’
which shouldn’t necessarily clash with government rules.  Another criteria that U.S. studios find it hard to accept
is the government’s control of distribution of co-produced
projects without its approval, Yu said. A film can only be
distributed worldwide after it receives a go-ahead from the
authorities, or it could be barred from being distributed even
in the U.S., he said.  ‘‘Just this line in the contract, not one person in
Hollywood is willing to sign,” Yu said.  Yu said he believes the Chinese government will slowly open
up the domestic film market, which would boost U.S.-China
cooperation and help domestic films to exert influence overseas.  China in February increased the number of foreign films it
allows in the country annually to 34 from 20. Studios will keep
25 percent of box-office receipts, up from the previous 13
percent. Movies with a qualifying percentage of Chinese stars,
financing and shooting locations can avoid foreign quotas.  Hollywood’s bigger role in the Chinese market may increase
competition, bring out local talent and help weed out low-
quality movies, Yu said.  “Through the outside force, we can boost the growth of the
local market so Bona will be prepared for that,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  