-- China Passengers Storm Airport Tarmac After 15-Hour Delay
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-04-22T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/china-passengers-storm-airport-tarmac-after-15-hour-delay.html
Simon Meng’s flight to Harbin,
China, was supposed to take about five hours. Instead, he had a
two-day delay, arguments with airline staff, a nighttime wait in
the rain, a trip to the hospital, and a dispute with police.  About 30 other passengers on the Shenzhen Airlines Co.
flight also forced their way onto a  Shanghai  Pudong
International Airport taxiway after being stranded for about 15
hours. That April 11 demonstration was followed by a similar
incident two days later as Chinese travelers begin to get fed up
with delays affecting at least one in four flights.  “The service across the whole aviation industry sucks,”
said Meng, 28, who runs a consultancy in Harbin, northern China,
and flies every couple of weeks. “I totally understand why
passengers protested.” Shenzhen Air declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News.  Chinese airlines  are struggling to stick with schedules as
they contend with military restrictions on airspace, bad weather
and procedures that haven’t kept pace with demand in the world’s
fastest growing aviation market. That’s hampering operations
even as carriers spend $600 billion on new planes through 2030,
according to  Boeing Co.   “Passengers simply can’t avoid delays,” said Li Lei, a
Beijing-based analyst at  China  Securities Co. “It’s an
industrywide issue.”  Flight Delays  According to Civil Aviation Administration of China’s
statistics, 23.5 percent of flights were delayed last year. That
only measures when the plane door closed, not when the aircraft
took off. The regulator has begun tracking takeoff times this
year. By comparison, 85 percent of U.S. flights arrived on time
last year, according to Department of Transportation  statistics .  “Airlines are the last to want delays because the costs
are very high,” said Zhang Wu’an, a spokesman for Spring
Airline Ltd., China’s largest low-cost carrier. “But, apart
from looking after passengers better, there’s not much we can
do.”  Zhang was on a plane that had been waiting to take off for
more than two hours in Guangzhou because of thunderstorms when
he spoke to Bloomberg News by phone. Delays cost about 1,000
yuan a minute,  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (670)  Chairman Liu
Shaoyong told state-run Xinhua News Agency last month.  About 42 percent of airspace in eastern China is closed to
commercial flights and reserved for the  air force , the official
China News Services reported last year, citing a military study.
That region includes Beijing and Shanghai, the country’s most
important cities.  Off, On, Off  Meng’s about 3,500 kilometer (2,200 mile) trip from
Shenzhen to Harbin via Nanjing was also affected by storms,
which caused the Shenzhen Air flight to divert to Shanghai,
touching down at about 8 p.m. The passengers got off the plane,
waited two hours, then re-boarded before waiting in their seats
for another couple of hours.  The passengers got off again at around midnight, as the
crew didn’t know when the plane would be cleared for takeoff,
Meng said. They walked to the terminal, discovered it was locked
and waited in the rain for about half an hour before someone
opened it. The police arrived soon afterwards, while Meng took
his wife to a hospital for checks as she felt unwell, he said.  The couple returned to the airport at about 5 a.m. at which
point the airline offered them a hotel room. They also decided
to postpone the next leg of their trip until the following day.
Other passengers were told they could fly at 11 a.m. That was
subsequent delayed, prompting the taxiway incursion, according
to state-run media.  Compensation, Punishment  Shenzhen Air, a unit of  Air China Ltd. (601111) , gave the passengers
1,000 yuan in compensation and said the disruptions were caused
by thunderstorms, according to the report. The passengers who
entered the taxiway were “punished,” airport police said on
its official microblog, without elaborating.  Two days later, passengers on a  Hainan Airlines Co. (900945)  flight
entered the tarmac at Guangzhou Baiyun Airport after heavy rains
disrupted flights, said Dong Jun, a spokesman for the carrier.
The airline paid 500 yuan in compensation to travelers on the
flight, which eventually took off almost seven hours late, she
said.  The regulator has told carriers to improve services for
delayed passengers, Xinhua said, without elaboration. Calls to
its Beijing head office went unanswered.  Hainan Air has asked staff to communicate with passengers
better and it will provide meals and accommodation if necessary,
Dong said. At  Beijing Airport (694) , the world’s second-busiest for
passengers, the police are also working with airlines to improve
security following delays, said Wang Min, a spokesman for
Beijing Capital International Airport Public Security Sub-
Bureau.  “The police needs to do a better job of controlling
passengers,” said Liu Jieyin, executive vice president at
closely-held Okay Airways Co. “Some of the reasons for delays
such as bad weather and airspace control are not airlines’
fault.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  