-- HK Bourse Closing Auction Needed, Deutsche Bank Poll Says
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-04-23T04:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/closing-auction-needed-on-hong-kong-exchange-deutsche-bank-says.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.
should reinstate a closing auction for equities to help calm
 price swings  at the end of the day, according to investors
polled by Deutsche Bank AG.  The Hong Kong bourse operator suspended the procedure in
March 2009 after moves in stocks spurred concern they were being
manipulated. Deutsche Bank’s institutional clients unanimously
asked for an improved system for automatically matching trades
at the end of the day, the survey found. Local independent
brokers oppose closing auctions, said Francis Lun, chairman of
the Hong Kong Institute of Financial Analysts.  Exchanges in most countries use auctions as a way to
establish closing prices by pooling share orders and finding the
level at which the most can be matched. The process, shunned by
only Hong Kong and  Shanghai  among the 10 biggest markets
worldwide, may reduce volatility and limit manipulation,
according to a 2006 paper tracking the introduction of the
process at Singapore’s stock exchange.  “The implementation of a proper closing auction will
create a fair mechanism where price discovery, based on supply
and demand, would establish an orderly closing price,” Joseph Sarcona, head of electronic trading in  Asia  at Morgan Stanley,
said in an interview. “Such a mechanism would be to the benefit
of the entire investing community.”  Local Opposition  Hong Kong uses the median price from the final five
transactions in a stock to calculate its  closing level . While
the system is not immune to manipulation, it is more democratic,
said the Institute of Financial Analysts’ Lun.  “There is no way to prevent manipulation,” said Lun,
managing director of Lyncean Holdings Ltd., a local brokerage,
in a telephone interview. “The key is how do you make it as
equitable and fair as possible?”  Closing auctions, by bundling all trades into one pool,
mean that more capital needs to be deployed to sway prices,
researchers led by the Australian National University’s  Carole
Comerton-Forde  concluded after a study of  Singapore Exchange
Ltd. (SGX)  While the researchers said that reduces opportunities for
manipulation, Lun says it means that only large players will be
able to influence prices.  “HKEx is aware that there are diverse views and trading
needs regarding the closing prices,” Scott Sapp, an exchange
spokesman, said via e-mail. “HKEx will continue to work with
its stakeholders on the market closing mechanism.”  Deutsche Bank surveyed its institutional clients and the
 Asia TraderForum , whose members have more than $500 billion
under management, about the closing auction and gave the results
to Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing the week of April 2. Its
shares fell 0.2 percent to HK$128.60 at the midday break today.  HSBC’s Plunge  The local bourse canceled its closing auction three days
after HSBC Holdings Plc, at the time the second-biggest stock
listed on the benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI) , fell 10 percent after
the close on March 9, 2009. The drop extended the decline on the
day to 24 percent, the stock’s biggest retreat in at least 23
years, and prompted complaints from market participants,
legislators and the city’s Financial Secretary  John Tsang .  The plunge was the result of “technical trades,” Sandy
Flockhart, chief executive officer of HSBC’s Asian business,
told reporters in Hong Kong March 10, 2009. The Securities and
Futures Commission began a formal investigation the next day
into whether the closing auction was manipulated.  The results of that probe are still unknown. “We do not
comment on the progress of investigations,” SFC spokesman
Ernest Kong said when asked if the matter was still open.  ‘Confidence, Transparency’  The procedure was suspended “due to HKEx’s concerns about
any appearance of abuse during the closing auction session and
the need to maintain public confidence in the orderliness,
fairness and transparency of the market in light of recent price
volatility during the closing auction session,” the exchange
said in a statement on March 12, 2009.  Possible mechanisms to limit manipulation in future
auctions include randomizing the exact closing time so a firm
can’t put in a  market-moving  order just before close, and
preventing orders from being cancelled for a set period before
the close.  “We understand people’s concerns because of what happened
with  HSBC (5) , and this is why we support a randomized closing time
to prevent manipulation,” said Alastair Hills, a spokesman for
TraderForum. “We believe a closing auction will benefit all
market participants.”  Closing Prices  Closing prices in Hong Kong are currently determined by the
bourse recording five prices, 15 seconds apart, before the
close. After those trades have been completed, the median price
becomes the official close. Brokers have no certainty whether
the final price they traded at will be the closing price.  The ability to match the closing prices of portfolio stocks
is critical for funds that track benchmark indexes. A less
predictable process increases costs by forcing brokers to charge
more for the risk they assume in guaranteeing funds get the
right price.  “For these funds it’s critical that they can achieve the
 closing price ,” Jessica Morrison, head of market structure at
Deutche Bank said in a phone interview. “These are the people
managing Mom and Dad’s pension funds, so they are going to be
trading in size and must be able to demonstrate that they have
traded in line with their mandate.”  SGX Study  With a closing auction, everyone puts in their bids and
offers during a pre-defined period. The exchange uses an
algorithm based on volume and price to find the level where most
trades can be completed. Investors who entered a market order
within those last 10 minutes know they will get the official
closing price while those entering a limit order will trade if
the closing price is within their limit.  The Australian National University’s Comerton-Forde co-
authored a study in 2006 on the introduction of a closing
auction to  Singapore  Exchange in 2000. The process spurred a
decline in market swings and a reduction in bid-ask spreads at
the close, which reduced the opportunities for manipulation,
according to the paper.  “Given the closing price is an official price used for
many valuations and benchmarks, there needs to be effective
controls in place to prevent the price being moved
deliberately,” according to the Deutsche survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  