-- Coene Says Further ECB Action for Spain Now Risks Credibility
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-04-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/coene-says-further-ecb-action-for-spain-now-risks-credibility.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Luc Coene said immediate further measures to
quell financial turmoil in  Spain  risk stretching the credibility
of the bank’s monetary policy.  “We have done what we can do so far within our mandate and
within the possibilities we have,” Coene told Bloomberg News in
an interview yesterday in Washington. “The only thing we could
do is overstretch ourselves and then we would even lose the
credibility we have at that moment.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB hasn’t bought any  government bonds 
for five straight weeks even as Spain’s borrowing costs have
risen amid market uncertainty over its budget-cutting plans.
Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said on April 20 that
while the ECB will “monitor closely” Spain’s market situation,
the problem can’t be solved by a more active central bank.  Since December last year the ECB has pumped more than 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the banking system to avert
a looming credit crunch.  “There is now ample liquidity in the system which has
helped to stabilize the market to some extent,” said Coene, who
was in  Washington  to attend International Monetary Fund
meetings. “It’s when there was hesitation about the
implementation of the reforms that you saw again confidence
sliding away and that clearly shows what we have done is buy
time but if the rest is not done then the time we have bought
will be wasted time.”  Necessary Measures  Coene, who is the governor of  Belgium ’s central bank, said
the ECB will continue to assess the situation, and will take
whatever measures are necessary without pre-committing.  “When we feel that certain measures need to be taken we
will take them whatever they may be,” he said.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday
that  Europe ’s effort to prevent the spread of its debt crisis
depends on the willingness and ability of the region’s leaders
to act aggressively and creatively.  Europe must now do more to restore fiscal health even as
the IMF’s Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  won more than $430
billion to safeguard the world economy. Failure to make reforms
jeopardizes the recovery in Europe and may make it harder for
countries like Spain to secure aid.  “Markets clearly perceive some doubts on the side of the
Spanish government to stick to its fiscal commitments,” Coene
said. Still, Spain is making “already a lot of efforts in terms
of structural reforms and now we have to see that these efforts
will result in adjustments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Washington at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  