-- Consumers Buy Death in Australia’s Cigarette Package Law
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-04-22T22:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/consumers-buy-death-in-australia-s-cigarette-package-law.html
The government of  Australia , which
wants to impose the world’s first-ever ban on logos printed on
cigarette packaging, has a unique marketing challenge: How to
create a product package whose intent is to repel consumers.  A proposed Australian law, being watched by governments
globally and challenged by companies including British American
Tobacco Plc, would require cigarettes to be sold in dark olive-
brown  packages , with corporate logos replaced by graphic images
of diseases blamed on smoking, and a uniform font previously
associated with  Microsoft Corp.’s (MSFT)  Windows software. The choice
of color and font was based on  studies  by Australian health
authorities, who sought to minimize the packs’ attractiveness.  That research dovetails with decades of polling and
experimentation by companies such as  BAT (BATS)  and  Imperial Tobacco
Group (IMT) , who have long viewed their packages as “silent
salesmen.” The Australians took all that knowledge and turned
it on its head in a fit of anti-marketing. Logos on tobacco
packaging are slated to be banned in the country from December,
dealing a body blow to the $661 billion global industry.  “Making choices to dissuade, or prohibit the packages from
standing out or drawing attention, is not the norm, but the
design process is really the same,” Jeff Bellantoni, chair of
the package design program at the Pratt Institute’s School of
Art & Design in New York, said in an interview.  International Interest  New Zealand ,  Canada ,  Belgium ,  Iceland  and  France  have all
shown an interest in implementing a plain-packaging law like
Australia, which accounts for 0.3 percent of global tobacco
volumes, according to Euromonitor International research. The
U.K. government this month called for reactions to standardize
tobacco packaging, which  tobacco companies   claim  would illegally
seize their trademarks and increase sales of illicit smokes.  If Australia’s  High Court  upholds the  law , brands such as
Dunhill, made by British American, and  Philip Morris
International Inc.’s (PM)  Marlboro would lose their iconic logos and
recognizable imagery overnight. All that would remain is the
brand name, written in a font known as Lucida Sans, on a pack
whose color is known in the design trade as  Pantone 448C .  Neither choice was random. The Australian health department
hired Sydney-based research company GfK Blue Moon to come up
with the most repellent packaging possible. GfK selected both
the color and font to “unplug the product” from its marketing,
creating a gap between the tobacco in the pack and its
association with anything elegant, masculine, or exciting,
according to Scott Morris, associate professor of food
engineering and packaging at the University of  Illinois .  Legible Font  Known mostly for being legible, Lucida was designed by the
Bigelow & Holmes studio in 1985. Designers Charles Bigelow and
Kris Holmes wanted to create a font that transmitted well onto
laser printers. The Lucida family includes a sans-serif version,
without small lines at the end of the characters. Microsoft has
 licensed  it for use on its Windows systems.  “Lucida Sans is one of the least graceful sans-serif
typefaces designed,” Tom Delaney, a senior designer with  New
York  design and identity consultant  Muts & Joy , said in an e-
mail. “It’s clumsy in its line construction.”  Pantone 448C, meanwhile, isn’t a color found on most
product packages, for good reason. Australia commissioned GfK to
find a color that was “the least appealing” and contained
cigarettes that were lowest quality, according to GfK’s 2011
 report .  To aid its search, GfK could consult studies done by
tobacco companies, who have come to rely on packaging more as
traditional avenues of advertising, such as television and
print, have been shut by regulators.  Social Visibility  Cigarette packages are different from other consumer
product containers, in that smokers retain the pack until it’s
finished, and frequently display it in public. Such social
visibility means cigarettes are known as “badge products,”
which associate the user with the brand’s image.  Most importantly, perceptions of cigarettes can be changed
by altering the color or shade of color on a pack, through a
process called “sensation transfer.” Lightening the tone is a
common practice, as it reduces the perception of a cigarette’s
strength. Red conveys a strong smoke, blue is associated with
lower-tar, and white is usually the lightest smoke available.  “Consumers use things like color as an indication of
risk,” said David Hammond, an associate professor at the
University of Waterloo’s School of  Public Health  who has studied
tobacco packaging. “It’s effective with tobacco as smokers are
motivated to believe their brand is less harmful.”  Red or Blue?  Philip Morris , now called  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  in the U.S.,
once compared smokers’ responses to identical cigarettes
packaged in separate blue and red packs. Some smokers found the
cigarettes in the blue pack to be too mild, while others felt
those in the red pack were too harsh.  GfK recommended eight colors for testing on smokers. Dark
colors were perceived as more harmful, and dark brown was the
least appealing, carrying connotations of uncleanliness. A
lighter-brown color was rejected as it could be perceived by
consumers as gold. An olive tint prevents the brown from looking
like chocolate, which also has positive associations.  “Pantone 448C is discouragingly drab, both literally and
figuratively,” Morris, the packaging professor, said in an e-
mail. “You can see that there isn’t much left that connects the
brand with any advertising, and it’s certainly unappealing.”  Yet by using Lucida Sans, a common font available to
anyone, Australia may have provided tobacco makers with a window
of opportunity, according to Jason Smith, founder of Fontsmith,
a London-based font design company that has worked with
companies such as  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  and the British Broadcasting Corp.  “They probably should have gone for something less
familiar,” Smith said in an interview. “There is absolutely
nothing to stop the cigarette companies from taking Lucida Sans
and using it on the side of a Formula One car, in their own
brand colors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  