-- Consumer Spending Probably Paced Growth: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-04-22T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/consumer-spending-probably-paced-growth-u-s-economy-preview.html
The biggest gain in  consumer
spending  in a year probably helped the  U.S. economy  keep
expanding in the first quarter even as fuel costs climbed,
economists said before a report this week.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
the nation produced, rose at a 2.5 percent annual rate after
advancing 3 percent in the previous three months, according to
the median forecast of 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before the Commerce Department’s April 27 release. Consumer
purchases that account for about 70 percent of the economy
climbed by the most since the end of 2010, the survey showed.  Job creation  and warmer winter weather helped Americans
 overcome  higher prices at the gas pump as auto sales powered
ahead and retailers enjoyed more foot traffic. At the same time,
the pace of growth may not be enough to convince Federal Reserve
policy makers meeting this week to stray from their plan to keep
borrowing costs low through 2014.  “Consumer activity really accelerated last quarter,” said
Christopher Low, chief economist at FTN Financial in New York.
“The increase in retail sales we saw was really terrific, and it
came after three months of almost no spending growth at all.”  The economy needs to expand at a faster pace to drive down
unemployment and generate bigger job gains, Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said in a speech on March 26. Federal Open Market
Committee members begin a two-day meeting on April 24.  Fed Meeting  With the interest-rate target near zero, the Fed will
“reiterate that it is likely to remain at that level into 2014
because of subpar economic growth and elevated unemployment,”
 Steven Wood , president of Insight Economics LLC in Danville,
 California , said in a note to clients.  Other data this week may show housing continued to
stabilize and demand for durable goods declined as Boeing Co.
received fewer aircraft orders.  A projected 2.3 percent increase in first-quarter household
purchases would follow a 2.1 percent gain in the prior period,
according to the median projection ahead of the Commerce
Department’s GDP release. Retail sales in the U.S.  advanced  at
an average rate of 0.8 percent last quarter, the fastest in a
year.  Underscoring the pickup in purchases, employers in the U.S.
took on more workers. Payrolls increased by 635,000 from January
through March, the biggest quarterly gain since the first three
months of 2006, data from the Labor Department show.  Gasoline Prices  Employment and the accompanying income gains helped
alleviate some of the strain from higher fuel prices. The  cost
of a gallon  of gas at the pump jumped 65 cents from the
beginning of the year to $3.93 on March 31, which was the
highest level in 10 months, according to AAA, the largest U.S.
auto group.  “The industry and consumers have been very resilient in
the face of higher pump prices,”  Don Johnson , vice president of
U.S. sales at  General Motors Co. (GM) , said on a call with analysts
on April 3. “The steadily improving economy is playing a role
and so is pent-up demand and an improved credit market.”  Unseasonably mild temperatures may have also spurred
activity. The January to March period was the warmest first
quarter on records going back to 1895, according to the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration . The temperature averaged
42 degrees Fahrenheit (5.6 degrees Celsius) during the three
months, 6 degrees above the 20th century average.  Stocks advanced along with the economy in the first
quarter. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 12 percent,
including a 3.1 percent increase in March. That marked the
strongest three-month start to a year since a 13.5 percent
advance in the first quarter of 1998.  Monetary Policy  Fed officials may stay the course on  monetary policy ,
electing to hold off on more monetary stimulus unless the
economic expansion falters, according to the minutes of their
March 13 meeting.  “The recovery may be finally establishing a somewhat
firmer footing,” Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President
William C. Dudley told business leaders in Syracuse, New York,
on April 12. Even so, “it is still too soon to conclude that we
are out of the woods,” he added.  The central bankers will release a statement on monetary
policy along with their projections for growth, unemployment and
inflation on April 25.  “The chairman and the rest of the Fed governors believe
that 2 percent to 2.5 percent growth is not nearly fast enough
to keep employment improving at its current pace,” Low said.  Housing Stabilizing  Housing may be stabilizing. A report from the Commerce
Department on April 24 may show  new-home sales  rose 1.6 percent
to a 318,000 annual rate in March, according to economists
surveyed. Data on pending home sales, released by the National
Association of Realtors two days later, may show they increased
1 percent in March.  A report from the Commerce Department on April 25 will show
a 1.7 percent decrease in March orders for durable goods,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Boeing
orders totaled 53, down from 237 a month earlier. Demand minus
transportation equipment rose 0.5 percent, the median estimate
showed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  