-- Czech Premier Seeks Confidence Vote to Avoid Snap Elections
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-04-23T18:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/czech-premier-seeks-partner-to-prevent-vote-as-coalition-breaks.html
Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas is
seeking supporters to avoid snap elections and push through
deficit cuts after the breakup of his coalition.  The three ruling parties agreed yesterday to dissolve the
coalition, while pledging to back bills in parliament that the
Cabinet approved through April 11. Necas will initiate a
confidence vote on April 27 to see whether Deputy Premier
Karolina Peake, who left the Public Affairs party last week, has
secured a firm pledge from enough lawmakers who defected with
her to guarantee a majority for the Cabinet in the legislature.  “I have received information from the vice-premier that
she has 10 signatures showing willingness to support the
government, and we will verify this in the vote,” Necas told
reporters in  Prague  today. “We will find out, in the most
transparent way, whether the government has a sufficient
majority.”  Governments across  Europe  have lost power in the past two
years as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  pushes for austerity to
prevent the euro area from breaking up.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  will meet his Cabinet today
to discuss a strategy for passing a budget that meets European
Union targets. Early elections will probably be called after the
 Freedom Party  withdrew its support for the minority government
on April 21.  French bonds slid after results from a weekend presidential
election showed Socialist  Francois Hollande  took a greater share
of the first-round vote than incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy .  ‘Safe Majority’  Necas backed down from a demand that he would only enter an
accord with Peake if she created a parliamentary caucus, which
requires at least 10 lawmakers. Peake said today she had secured
enough votes to guarantee “safe majority” for the government,
without specifying whether she will form an official faction in
the lower house of parliament.  The Czech coalition broke up over Cabinet personnel
decisions and trimming the deficit as Necas’s 20-month-old
administration prepares tax increases and a cut in spending on
pensions to bring the fiscal  gap  to within the EU limit of 3
percent of gross domestic product next year. The fiscal goals
have attracted investors into Czech bonds, pushing the
government’s borrowing costs to a record low.  Koruna Impact  “While we do expect Peake to generate sufficient support
for a new coalition-supporting faction and thus avoid elections
in June, failure to do so could negatively impact the koruna,”
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analysts David Petitcolin and
Imran Zaheer Ahmad said in an April 20 report.  A fall of the Czech Cabinet may compromise the fiscal plans
“which have helped distinguish the country in a period of
severe market scrutiny on public finances, and position itself
as a regional safe haven,” the RBS analysts said.  Measures to narrow the fiscal gap, including an overhaul of
the pension system, have helped curb funding costs. The yield on
the Czech Eurobond maturing in 2021 fell to an all-time low of
3.230 percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The koruna lost as much as 0.8 percent to the euro today,
trading little changed at 25.030 against the single currency as
of 7:53 p.m. in Prague.  Coalition Breakup  The breakup of the coalition ends the largest government
majority in parliament since the  Czech Republic  became an
independent state 19 years ago. Since taking power in 2010, the
parties have repeatedly quarreled over personnel issues and
measures to cut spending. The administration averted a collapse
in June 2011 when Public Affairs requested an overhaul of the
Cabinet.  Necas is also facing public discontent with his budget
policies. About 90,000 people marched through Prague on April 21
demanding early elections in a protest against spending cuts,
the newswire CTK reported, citing police estimates. Trade
unions, which organized the rally, said it was the largest
popular protest since the fall of communism in 1989.  Public Affairs clashed with the other two government
parties over its demands to secure more money for teachers’
salaries and transportation infrastructure. Cuts in all budget
allocations are needed to meet the government goal of reducing
the deficit to 2.9 percent of GDP next year from a targeted 3.5
percent in 2012, before balancing public finances in 2016.  Parliamentary Seats  Necas’s Civic Democrats and the TOP09 party hold 93 of the
legislature’s 200 seats, while Public Affairs had 21 before
Peake’s exit.  Necas refused to cooperate with Vit Barta, the former head
of Public Affairs’ parliamentary caucus and the party’s sponsor,
who was convicted of bribery on April 13. Barta, who owned a
detective and security company before he was elected to
parliament, rejected the charges and appealed the verdict.  The Civic Democrats will start “intensive” preparations
for an election campaign, the party said in a statement on April
18.  The Czech Republic has a history of political infighting.
It’s had two minority governments and two interim Cabinets in
the past 14 years, stalling previous efforts to control the
 budget deficit . In 2009, Prime Minister  Mirek Topolanek  lost a
no-confidence motion halfway through the country’s six-month
term as EU president.  Falling Support  Public Affairs’ support in opinion polls has fallen the
most among the three coalition parties since the elections. It
wouldn’t reach the 5 percent threshold to enter parliament if
elections were held now, according to a poll by the CVVM
company.  The opposition  Social Democrats  would win elections now,
followed by the Communist Party, according to the CVVM survey,
which was conducted among 1,048 respondents and released April
18. Necas’s Civic Democrats, or ODS, and TOP09 wouldn’t get
enough votes to create a majority government together, the poll
showed. The CVVM didn’t publish a margin of error for the poll.  “The reform-minded government would almost surely be
ousted” in early elections, Andras Oszlay, a Budapest-based
analyst at DZ Bank AG, wrote in a report today. “A possible new
Social Democrat government would likely undo some of the reforms
that gained credit to the Czech Republic among investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  