-- Czech Parties Agree to Dissolve Ruling Coalition, Back Bills
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-04-22T20:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/czech-parties-agree-to-dissolve-ruling-coalition-back-bills-1-.html
The Czech ruling coalition agreed
to dissolve itself as of April 27 after clashing over budget-
deficit cuts and Cabinet personnel.  Chairmen of the three governing parties agreed to back
parliament bills approved by the Cabinet up until April 11,
Prime Minister Petr Necas told reporters in  Prague  today.
Necas’s Civic Democrats said April 18 the party would end ties
with Public Affairs and will hold talks tomorrow with a group of
lawmakers who left the smallest coalition member this week to
negotiate support for the Cabinet.  The coalition broke up as Necas’s 20-month-old Cabinet
prepares bills including tax increases and a cut in spending on
pensions needed to trim the fiscal deficit to within the
European Union limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product next
year. The fiscal plans have attracted investors into Czech
bonds, pushing the state’s borrowing costs to a record low.  “The items we will back in parliament are proposals that
were agreed by the coalition, they were compromise agreements
among the three parties, and these issues should be pushed
through,” Necas said.  The yield on the Czech Eurobond maturing in 2021 fell to an
all-time low of 3.260 percent on April 18, before rising to
3.292 percent on April 20, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The breakup of the coalition ends the largest government
majority in parliament since the  Czech Republic  became an
independent state 19 years ago. Since taking power in 2010, the
coalition has repeatedly quarreled over personnel issues and
measures to cut spending. The government averted a collapse in
June 2011 when Public Affairs requested an overhaul of the
Cabinet.  Public Affairs also clashed with the other two ruling
parties over its demands to secure more money for teachers’
salaries and transportation infrastructure. Cuts in all budget
allocations are needed to meet the government goal of reducing
the deficit to 2.9 percent of GDP next year from a targeted 3.5
percent in 2012, before balancing public finances in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  