-- Deutsche Bank Said to Plan Charge From Actavis Sale
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-04-23T12:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/deutsche-bank-said-to-plan-charge-from-actavis-sale.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  will probably book
an additional charge of as much as 400 million euros ($528
million) tied to the sale of  Actavis Group hf  to  Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , people familiar with the process said.  The bank may say it is booking a loss of 300 million euros
to 400 million euros on the deal when it reports first-quarter
results April 26, said the people, who declined to be identified
because talks are private. Watson will probably announce as
early as tomorrow that it has agreed to buy Actavis for about
4.5 billion euros, less than the value of the debt Deutsche Bank
holds, resulting in the charge, they said.  A sale would allow Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s
biggest lender, to recoup money it loaned to Icelandic
billionaire Bjorgolfur Thor Bjorgolfsson to acquire Actavis in
2007. It will also free up capital as Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen prepare to become the bank’s co-chief executive
officers at the end of May. The deal would create one of the
world’s largest producers of generic drugs.  “It’s good to close this chapter, but it would have been
better to have done it without charges,” said  Christian Muschick , an analyst with Silvia Quandt Research in Frankfurt.
“This helps clean things up for the new management. They’re
clearly trying to deal with some issues they’ve had for a while
and this is one of them.”  Libby Young, a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman, Frank Staud of
Zug, Switzerland-based Actavis and Watson’s Charlie Mayr
declined to comment.  Earnings Estimates  Deutsche Bank  dropped  1.47 euros, or 4.3 percent, to 33.01
euros by 2:20 p.m. in Frankfurt trading, valuing the company at
about 30.7 billion euros. The Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and
Financial Services Index, which tracks 43 stocks, fell 2.9
percent.  Deutsche Bank may report that net income fell to 1.55
billion euros in the first quarter from 2.06 billion euros in
the same period of 2011, according to the average  estimate  of
eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Pretax profit probably
declined to 2.38 billion euros from 3.02 billion euros, based on
the average of 12 estimates in recent weeks.  “Client activity is still tracking down on a year-on-year
basis, so what really drove the first quarter was a strong
trading performance,” said  Kinner Lakhani , an analyst with
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  in  London  who has a “hold” rating on the stock.
“The odds are in favor of the rest of this year being better
than the prior-year quarters given the notably weak trading
performance last year, although the overall environment will
continue to be challenging and volatile.”  JPMorgan, Citigroup  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank, reported a 3.1
percent earnings decline for the first quarter on April 13.
Citigroup said April 16 that profit fell 2.3 percent.  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said April 17 profit plunged 23 percent.  Goldman Sachs reported a 20 percent decline in fixed-income
trading revenue while JPMorgan’s revenue from that business fell
11 percent and Citigroup’s slid 4 percent.  “The first quarter is normally the strongest for an
investment bank, but in this environment it is possible that
some business will be pushed into the second,” said Muschick.
“That all depends on the wider economy and there’s no certainty
there.”  Actavis overhauled its business afterBjorgolfsson lost
money during the financial crisis, leaving the lender with as
much as 5 billion euros of debt, people familiar with the
company said in 2009. The drugmaker  refinanced  in 2010. Deutsche
Bank posted an impairment of 407 million euros tied to Actavis
in the fourth quarter.  ‘Temporary’ Investments  Actavis is part of 12.2 billion euros of non-strategic
assets Deutsche Bank holds at its corporate investments unit,
according to the company’s report for 2011, published in March.  The unit also includes the Cosmopolitan Resort & Casino in
 Las Vegas , which the bank foreclosed on in 2008 when developer
Ian Bruce Eichner defaulted on a loan, and a stake in Canadian
port operator Maher Terminals, which it agreed to acquire in
2007. The units are all held for “investment purposes on a
temporary basis,” according to the report for 2011.  The corporate investments unit had 11.8 billion euros of
risk-weighted assets at the end of 2011, Deutsche Bank said in
the report. Deutsche Bank is working to mitigate an increase in
such assets weighted according to risk as banks implement
tougher rules on capital, known as Basel III.  Unsolicited Bid  “Actavis should represent about 4 billion euros of risk-
weighted assets, so taking a charge of 400 million euros could
eat up most of the capital a sale would free up,” said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets who
recommends investors buy Deutsche Bank shares. “A charge would
be very disappointing. I had thought a gain to have been
possible after they wrote down Actavis.”  Watson CEO  Paul Bisaro  said in January the Parsippany, New
Jersey-based company was interested in buying either a generic
or brand-name drugmaker. “Our appetite for a larger
transaction, it’s there,” he said at a JPMorgan health-care
conference in  San Francisco .  Bisaro said he’s also looking to expand the company’s
international reach and its portfolio of brand-name drugs. The
U.S. firm approached closely held Actavis in the fourth quarter
about a potential bid, the people said.  ‘Strategic Rationale’  Watson, which makes the authorized copy of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
cholesterol pill Lipitor, would reap “significant synergies”
in the U.S. from an Actavis acquisition and boost its presence
in Europe, Chris Schott, a JPMorgan analyst, wrote in a note to
clients. The combination has “a strong strategic rationale,”
Schott wrote.  Actavis CEO Claudio Albrecht said in an interview in June
that he was weighing an initial public offering or pursuing a
merger within three years. Albrecht, who moved the company from
Iceland to Zug in May, said he would prefer for Actavis to be
about triple its current size.  The generic-drug maker has about 850 products on the market
and another 350 products under development, according to its
website. It makes injectable drugs and creams as well as tablets
and capsules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  