-- Euro Weakens as Political Turmoil Damps Demand; Yen Gains
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-04-23T21:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/dollar-rises-against-major-peers-before-confidence-report.html
The euro fell for the first time in
five days against the yen amid concern French presidential
elections and Dutch government turmoil will disrupt efforts to
stem the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Japan ’s currency rose against all of its 16 most-traded
peers as French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  trailed Socialist
challenger  Francois Hollande , who has called for more European
Central Bank action, in a first-round vote, boosting demand for
haven. Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered to quit after
struggling to clinch an austerity deal. A gauge of German
manufacturing unexpectedly fell, and global stocks dropped.  “You’ve got the French elections with Hollande taking the
lead there, and there’s more risk for the financial markets
associated with an Hollande victory,” said Carl Forcheski, a
director on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe
Generale SA in New York. “Germany’s PMI really came in quite a
bit weaker than expected. All those things combined seem to gang
up on the euro.”  The euro weakened 0.9 percent to 106.81 yen at 5 p.m.  New
York  time. It depreciated as much as 1.4 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since April 5. The shared currency declined 0.5
percent to $1.3156 and briefly fell below its 100-day moving
average of $1.3121. The yen strengthened 0.4 percent to 81.18
per dollar.  The Swedish krona was the biggest loser versus the dollar
among major currencies, tumbling 1 percent to 6.7568 to the
greenback. New Zealand’s dollar, called the kiwi, depreciated
0.6 percent to 81.35 U.S. cents and touched 80.88 cents, a one-
month low.  Brazil ’s real fell 0.5 percent to 1.8809 per dollar.  Volatility Drops  Implied volatility  on three-month options on Group of Seven
nations’ currencies touched 9.57 percent, the least since August
2008, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index. The average
over the past decade is 10.6 percent. Lower volatility tends to
make investments in currencies of nations with higher benchmark
rates more attractive because the risk in such trades is that
market moves will erase profits.  Higher-yielding assets also fell after an index signaled
manufacturing in  China , the world’s second-biggest economy, may
shrink for a sixth month in April. A preliminary reading
reported by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was 49.1,
versus 48.3 in March. Numbers below 50 point to a contraction.  Hollande won 28.6 percent of the vote in  France  yesterday,
against 27.2 percent for Sarkozy, the interior ministry said in
Paris. The anti-euro National Front, led by Marine Le Pen, got
18.1 percent of the vote. The second ballot is on May 6.  ‘Hostile Dynamic’  “It’s the fact that you’ve got someone in France who is
not aligned with Germany, and what it means is you’re going to
see more of a hostile dynamic between  Germany  and France, rather
than a cooperative one,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior
currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York.  In the Netherlands, Rutte offered his cabinet’s resignation
after losing the support of Geert Wilders’s Freedom Party over a
disagreement on budget cuts needed to steer the nation clear of
the debt crisis. The country is one of four in the euro region
with a top AAA credit rating from  Standard & Poor’s .  Dutch 10-year bonds fell, driving the  yield difference  with
benchmark German bunds to a three-year high. U.S. Treasuries
gained, pushing  10-year yields  down as much as five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.91 percent, the lowest
since Feb. 28. The  S&P 500 Index  slid 0.8 percent.  The euro dropped 0.9 percent against nine developed-nation
counterparts over the past month, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen gained 1.6 percent, and
the dollar was little changed.  Factory, Services Gauges  The 17-nation currency stayed weaker after London-based
Markit Economics said a euro-area composite index based on a
survey of manufacturing and services purchasing managers dropped
to 47.4 in April from 49.1 in March. A Bloomberg survey forecast
a rise to 49.3. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  A purchasing-manager index of German manufacturing fell to
46.3 for April, from 48.4 in March. A Bloomberg poll forecast an
increase to 49.  The euro may retest a key “psychological” support level
of $1.30 per dollar after trying to break it three times this
year, Junichi Ishikawa, said an analyst at IG Markets Securities
Ltd. in  Tokyo , citing technical indicators. Support refers to an
area on a price graph where buy orders may be grouped.  Australia ’s dollar slid versus most major currencies after
a report showed the nation’s producer prices fell last quarter,
adding to bets the central bank will cut  interest rates . The
nation’s producer-price index dropped 0.3 percent in the
January-to-March period from the prior quarter, when it gained
0.3 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said. The index was
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey to climb 0.4 percent.  Aussie Versus Greenback  The Aussie fell 0.6 percent to $1.0319 and weakened 1
percent to 83.77 yen.  The  U.S. dollar  gained versus a majority of its most-traded
peers on bets that data tomorrow will show the  U.S. economy  is
growing, reducing chances the  Federal Reserve  will expand
monetary easing. The government may say new-home purchases rose
1.6 percent in March, a Bloomberg survey showed.  The Fed will release a statement on April 25 on monetary
policy. All 79 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg predict the
central bank will keep its key rate at zero to 0.25 percent.  John Taylor , founder of currency hedge fund FX Concepts
LLC, said the dollar will strengthen against the euro this
quarter as the French election raises concern about stability in
the 17-nation region.  “ Europe ’s going to be in a recession, and they’re going to
have to print more money and be looser, and the U.S. is going to
have a stronger economy than them by quite a bit,” Taylor said
April 20 in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  