-- Draghi’s ECB Rejects Geithner-IMF Push for Measures
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k ,   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-04-23T09:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/draghi-s-ecb-rejects-geithner-imf-push-for-measures.html
European Central Bank  officials led
by President  Mario Draghi  resisted calls from the  International
Monetary Fund  and U.S. Treasury to do more to stem the debt
crisis roiling the euro-area economy.  As talks of global finance chiefs ended yesterday in
 Washington , euro-area central bankers from Draghi to Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann argued they have done enough by cutting
interest rates and issuing more long-term bank loans.  “None of the advice that the IMF is offering has been
discussed by the Governing Council, in recent times at least,”
Draghi said on April 20 while attending IMF meetings in
Washington. Weidmann said in an interview that “the problems in
Europe can’t be solved by monetary policy measures.”  Officials in  Europe  and around the world are bickering
about additional crisis-calming steps, as turmoil returns to the
continent’s bond market amid concern that  Spain  may need a
bailout. While Draghi says Spain and Italy need to agree further
action, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government wants the ECB
to reactivate its bond-buying program.  Spain and Italy have made “remarkable” progress on
structural changes, Draghi said. Even so, the process is far
from complete for both countries, he said.  ‘Pressure on Governments’  “The ECB is drawing a line to keep pressure on governments
to make the necessary adjustments,” said Megan Greene, head of
European economics at Roubini Global Economics LLC, who was in
Washington. “If push came to shove the ECB would step in, but
they’ll hold the line for now.”  Political considerations may dominate in the euro area this
week. Socialist Francois Hollande and President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
advanced to the final round of the French presidential vote on
May 6. Hollande took 28.6 percent in yesterday’s vote against
27.1 percent for Sarkozy, the  Interior Ministry  said.  A defeat for Sarkozy would mirror the fate of governments
in Ireland,  Portugal ,  Greece ,  Italy , Spain, Slovenia and
Slovakia that have been ousted since the onset of crisis in the
17-nation currency group.  In the Netherlands, Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  may call
early elections in a bid to secure parliamentary support
for additional budget cuts as he tries to steer the Netherlands
away from the sovereign debt crisis. On April 21, Geert Wilders’s Freedom Party withdrew its support for the minority
government over how to narrow the deficit.  ‘Flexibly and Aggressively’  Even before the IMF used the Washington meeting to win more
than $430 billion in fresh funds to help safeguard the world
economy from Europe’s woes, the ECB was lobbied to consider
additional steps. The fund suggested last week that the
Frankfurt-based central bank lower its benchmark interest rate
and keep its crisis-fighting liquidity measures in place to
support banks.  While stopping short of making detailed recommendations,
 U.S. Treasury  Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  also said the ECB
and other European authorities should act decisively to end the
turmoil.  “The success of the next phase of the crisis response will
hinge on Europe’s willingness and ability, together with the
European Central Bank, to apply its tools and processes
creatively, flexibly and aggressively to support countries as
they implement reforms and stay ahead of markets,” Geithner
told the IMF.  European governments also chafed at suggestions they
haven’t been pro-active enough, a month after boosting rescue
funds to 800 billion euros ($1 trillion). “We can tell the
world with full conviction that the Europeans have met their
commitments,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  Record Low  Since Draghi took office in November, the ECB has returned
its key rate to a record low of 1 percent even as its balance
sheet has ballooned by almost 30 percent with unprecedented
three-year loans to banks totaling more than 1 trillion euros
($1.3 trillion).  Such actions won support from  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa, who warned failure by governments to restore
fiscal order following the ECB’s liquidity boost risks sparking
“uncontrollable inflation.”  While the ECB’s steps helped calm financial markets their
effects may be wearing off, with Spain’s 10-year bond yield this
month nearing levels which triggered bailouts of Greece, Ireland
and Portugal. Since March 2, Spanish bond yields have surged
above those of Italy, igniting speculation that the Iberian
nation may be the next to require a financial lifeline. Italian
borrowing costs have also risen.  Bond Sales  Italian bill and bond sales this week include a 2.5
billion-euro bond sale tomorrow and an 8.5 billion-euro treasury
bill sale on April 26, while Spain will sell three- and six-
month bills tomorrow.  The ECB has not re-entered the government bond market and
has not made any purchases for five straight weeks after buying
214 billion euros of bonds since 2010.  Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen nevertheless said in
Washington that the ECB would “closely monitor the situation in
the Spanish government bond market,” signaling the central bank
may still act if rising yields threaten the ability of the euro
area’s fourth-largest economy to borrow in financial markets. He
also said markets shouldn’t automatically assume the ECB will
offer more three-year loans.  Borrowing costs are rising in Spain and Italy after both
diluted their targets for reducing budget deficits, raising
concern among investors that their determination is dwindling as
economies feel the bite of austerity.  Rates ‘Spur’  Further measures to quell financial turmoil in Spain risk
stretching the credibility of the bank’s monetary policy,  Luc Coene , ECB Governing Council member and governor of  Belgium ’s
central bank, said in an interview on April 21.  “We have done what we can do so far within our mandate and
within the possibilities we have,” he said in Washington. “The
only thing we could do is overstretch ourselves and then we
would even lose the credibility we have at that moment.”  Weidmann of the Bundesbank indicated the ECB may welcome
higher borrowing costs as a way of forcing governments not to
backpedal.  “Higher  interest rates  are also a spur toward reforms,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  