-- Dutch Face Elections As Rutte Seeks Majority for Measures
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2012-04-23T14:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/dutch-face-elections-as-rutte-seeks-majority-for-measures.html
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte 
offered to quit, a move that would trigger early elections, as
he sought to win parliamentary support for additional budget
cuts needed to steer the Netherlands clear of the debt crisis.  Stocks, bonds and the euro dropped today as Rutte’s Cabinet
convened in the Hague to try to overcome a budget impasse after
talks with opposition leader  Geert Wilders ’s Freedom Party broke
up at the weekend without a deal on cuts of at least 9.5 billion
euros ($12.5 billion). Rutte then met with  Queen Beatrix  to
tender the Cabinet’s resignation.  The Queen will consider the offer and requested the Cabinet
handle current affairs in the meantime, the government
information service said in an e-mailed statement.  “We’ll have to find majorities to prepare the 2013 budget
but also in the short term, to submit a stability program to
Brussels,” Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  told reporters in
the Hague. “The Netherlands, in every circumstance, will
maintain disciplined budgetary policy.”  The Dutch government’s fall would complicate policy making
in the 17-member euro region at a time when  Spain ’s predicament
and the French election are causing renewed concerns about
Europe’s crisis-fighting stance. Rutte’s Cabinet may carry on in
a caretaker capacity until elections can be held as soon as
September, three years early.  Rating ‘at Risk’  Until then, the government faces being “unable to get
important reforms approved by parliament,” said Marco Wagner, a
Frankfurt-based economist at Commerzbank AG. “This suggests
that the 3 percent target will be missed in 2013 and the
country’s AAA rating is at risk.”  Europe ’s benchmark Stoxx 600 dropped 2.6 percent to 251.13
as of 4:30 p.m. in Amsterdam, while the euro declined 0.8
percent to $1.3111.  Dutch 10-year bond yields surged seven basis points to 2.39
percent, sending the premium investors demand to hold the debt
over German bunds to a three-year high. The Netherlands led an
increase in the cost of insuring European sovereign debt against
default to the highest in more than a month.  Uncertainty in the Netherlands, a traditional crisis ally
of  Germany , adds to the turmoil springing from the debt crisis
as it reverberates throughout Europe. In  France , presidential
election candidates are pushing the European Central Bank to be
more pro-growth, a stance at odds with  Chancellor Angela Merkel ,
while in the Czech Republic Prime Minister Petr Necas is seeking
to avoid snap elections and push through deficit cuts after the
breakup of his coalition.  ‘Obvious Scenario’  With budget deliberations dragging on since March 5, the
fate of Rutte’s minority government was thrown into doubt on
April 21 when Wilders and his  Freedom Party  unexpectedly
withdrew its support over how to narrow the shortfall. That
prompted Rutte to cite new elections as “an obvious scenario”
to try to resolve the deadlock.  In the Netherlands, the euro-area’s fifth biggest economy,
the 2013 budget shortfall is currently forecast at 4.6 percent
of gross domestic product. To pare it to 3 percent as specified
by the European Commission, Rutte needs to find at least 9.5
billion euros of extra cuts to submit to Brussels by April 30.  “The package is way too rigorous and it’s bad for the
economy,” Emile Roemer, head of the Socialist Party, which
would double its seats to 30 according to latest polls, said in
broadcast remarks. “We need to have elections and clarity as
soon as possible.”  The opposition  Labor Party  is willing to cooperate with the
government on preparing a complete 2013 budget only if elections
are held in September, party leader Diederik Samsom told NOS
television April 21. Economic growth is more important than
meeting the 3 percent deficit target, Samsom said.  ‘Can Be Done’  Opposition leaders like Samsom and Alexander Pechtold, the
head of the D66 Democrats, both called for an early ballot.  “I think it can be done before the summer so we can make a
new start for the  Netherlands ,” Samsom told NOS today.  The  risk premium  demanded by investors on Dutch government
debt has been rising since the budget talks started March 5. The
yield spread over benchmark German bunds widened 11 basis points
to 72 basis points today, after earlier reaching 75 basis
points, the most since March 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The risk has heightened the Netherlands may be
downgraded,”  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN Amro
Group NV in Amsterdam, said by phone yesterday. “I don’t see a
majority in parliament to bring the deficit to 3 percent, so
hopefully the politicians will get their act together as the
country has a long history of fiscal prudence.”  The nation last held a general election in June 2010 and
the next one wasn’t due to be held until 2015.  Crisis Center Stage  Europe’s debt crisis and solutions to it are likely to take
center stage in the election, Meindert Fennema, a professor of
political science at the University of Amsterdam, who wrote a
biography of Wilders, said in a televised interview yesterday.  The  Liberal Party , led by Rutte, would win 33 of the 150
parliamentary seats if general elections were held now, up from
the 31 seats it currently holds, according to a poll of about
4,500 people by researcher Maurice de Hond and No Ties BV that
was published yesterday.  The Freedom Party’s seats would drop to 19 from 24, while
the second governing party, the  Christian Democrats , would fall
to 11 from 21. The Socialist Party would double its seats to 30
while the Labor Party would drop to 24 from 30, according to the
poll, which was conducted late April 21 and yesterday. No margin
of error was published.  Second Recession  The Dutch economy entered its second recession in three
years during the second half of 2011 and unemployment increased
from 5 percent to almost 6 percent in 12 months.  Standard & Poor’s  on Jan. 13 changed the outlook for the
Netherlands to negative as it sees at least a one-in-three
chance that the rating will be lowered in 2012 or 2013 if the
economy further deteriorates.  The costs for the Netherlands of losing its top  credit
rating  would be high,  European Central Bank  Governing Council
Member Klaas Knot, who also heads the Dutch central bank, said
April 13. “It could lead to 100 basis points extra  interest
rate  on our government debt and to 4 billion euros of extra
interest costs annually,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  