-- Tech Earnings Surprise Spurs Biggest 2012 Gain: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-04-22T14:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/tech-earnings-surprise-spurs-biggest-2012-gain-israel-overnight.html
Israeli stocks traded in  New York 
had the biggest  weekly  advance this year as better-than-
estimated earnings for technology companies bolstered  Mellanox
Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  and  Check Point  Software Technologies Ltd.  The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest Israeli
companies listed in the U.S. jumped 5 percent in the week to
91.91, the biggest five-day climb since Dec. 2. Yokneam Elit,
Israel-based Mellanox surged 50 percent, swelling the premium
over its  Tel Aviv  shares to $6.10, the most on record. Check
Point posted its biggest advance in five weeks before reporting
first-quarter earnings tomorrow. Mellanox shares surged in Tel
Aviv today.  Average profit  for about 10 percent of companies on the
Nasdaq Composite Index that have reported first-quarter results
-- from Mellanox to the world’s biggest software maker  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  -- is beating analysts’ median estimates by 6.7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Israeli companies, the
biggest source of listings on the Nasdaq Stock Market after
 China , are benefiting from the benchmark  index’s  best start to a
year since 1991 as concerns  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen
recede, according to Bank Leumi USA.  “Tech has really soared and I think that Israeli stocks
are getting some attention,” Chaim Fromowitz, head of the
private banking division at Bank Leumi USA, a unit of Israel’s
largest lender by assets, said in a phone interview on April 20
in New York. “With the general move in the global economy, the
market here is more positive and that’s overflowing.”  Record Sales  Mellanox, a maker of technology used to transfer and store
data quickly, said on April 18 that  sales  increased to a record
$88.7 million in the first quarter, beating the $81.5 million
median of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Mellanox
forecast second-quarter revenue of between $125 million and $130
million, exceeding the $83.4 million median analysts’ estimate.  Chief Executive Officer Eyal Waldman said in an interview
on April 19 that the company’s revenue will keep increasing
after shares soared 52 percent that day.  “We can continue to grow,” Waldman said by phone from
Sunnyvale, California. “Every time there’s a technology that
can provide better efficiency and better utilization, people
will migrate to use it.”  Mellanox’s shares in Tel Aviv rose 10 percent to a record
229 shekels, or the equivalent of $61.06, at the 4:30 p.m.
close. The benchmark TA-25 Index gained 0.8 percent to 1,161.74.  Check Point Results  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, reported on April
20 fiscal third-quarter  earnings  of 60 cents per share,
surpassing the 58 cents median of 30 analysts estimates collated
by Bloomberg.  Tel Aviv-based  Check Point (CHKP)  will probably say tomorrow,
before the start of trading in New York, that first-quarter
adjusted earnings rose 20 percent to 72 cents per share,
according to the median of 29 analysts’ estimates.  The world’s second-largest maker of equipment designed to
keep company Internet networks secure climbed 2.5 percent last
week to $64.05. Citigroup Inc. raised its price estimate on
shares of Check Point to $74 from $68.  “You have such a large concentration of tech companies in
Israel,” Bank Leumi USA’s Fromowitz said. “There’s a general
feeling that Israeli stocks have some hidden value.”  U.S. stocks posted their first gain in three weeks as the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed 0.6 percent. The  Nasdaq
Composite (CCMP)  jumped 19 percent in the first quarter, the largest
advance for the first three months of a year since 1991.  Protalix Approval  Protalix BioTherapeutics Inc. (PLX) , a Carmiel, Israel-based
biopharmaceutical company, climbed 8.5 percent to $6.95 last
week, the highest level in nine months. Protalix shares jumped
16 percent to 28 shekels, or the equivalent of $7.47, in Tel
Aviv today.  The company is developing a protein known as taliglucerase
alfa with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  using plant cells to replace an enzyme
missing in people with Gaucher disease, a genetic ailment that
affects as many as one in 50,000 people in the U.S., according
to the National Center for Biotechnology Information.  Regulators in Europe may approve Protalix’s treatment on
May 25,  Brian Abrahams , a New York-based analyst at Wells Fargo
Securities, wrote in an e-mailed note on April 20.  Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD) , which controls Israel’s
biggest landline phone company, was the second-biggest gainer on
the Bloomberg US-Israel Equity Index. The shares in Tel Aviv
fell 4.1 percent today to 22.85 shekels, or the equivalent of
$6.09, after climbing 19 percent to $6.40 last week in New York.  Internet Gold jumped on speculation a new government policy
will allow Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication Corp. to integrate
its units and cut costs. Internet Gold owns 31 percent of Bezeq
through a unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  