-- Hedge Funds Cut Bullish Wagers by the Most in Four Months
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-04-23T19:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/hedge-funds-cut-bullish-wagers-by-the-most-in-four-months.html
Hedge funds  cut their bets on
higher commodity prices by the most in four months on mounting
concern that Europe’s debt crisis will derail global growth and
curb demand for raw materials.  Money managers lowered net-long positions across 18 U.S.
futures and options by 11 percent to 898,022  contracts  in the
week ended April 17, the most since Dec. 20, data from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. Bets on rising sugar
prices fell the most in more than three years, while the funds
anticipate declines in cotton, wheat, coffee and natural gas.  A surge in unemployment from  Spain  to  Italy  to  Greece  is
undermining efforts to quell the region’s debt as borrowing
costs rise. U.S. industrial production stalled for a second
month in March, the  Federal Reserve  said April 17.  Home prices 
in China fell last month in a record 37 of 70 cities tracked by
the government, data showed April 18. The “super cycle” that
drove an almost fourfold gain in commodity prices since the end
of 2001 may be ending, Citigroup Inc. said last week.  “Concerns about a global slowdown are growing,” said
Walter ‘Bucky’ Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion of assets
at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham, Alabama. “The
conditions just aren’t favorable for a commodity rally.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
dropped 0.8 percent last week, led by declines in sugar and
gasoline. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities climbed
0.9 percent and Treasuries returned 0.2 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index show.  While commodities are down 2.1 percent in April, heading
for the first two-month slump since September, the GSCI index
still is up 120 percent since touching a five-year low in
February 2009, as the economy emerged from recession and demand
improved. The commodity gauge fell as much as 1.2 percent today.  Sugar Tumbles  Fourteen of the raw materials tracked by the S&P GSCI
retreated last week. Sugar tumbled 5.5 percent for a fourth
consecutive loss, while gasoline dropped 6.1 percent, the most
since mid-September. Cotton,  Brent crude , Kansas wheat, corn,
natural gas and nickel all declined more than 2 percent.  The outlook for demand was eroded partly by dimming
prospects in  Europe . Spanish two-year notes fell for a seventh
week, extending the longest run of declines since January 2007.
Spain now has an unemployment rate of 23.6 percent, compared
with an average of 10.8 percent across the 17-nation euro
region.  Jobless Benefits  More Americans than forecast filed claims for jobless
benefits in the week ended April 14, the Labor Department said
April 19. Sales of previously owned homes unexpectedly dropped
in March, data from the National Association of Realtors showed
the same day.  Investors put $472 million into commodity funds in the week
ended April 18, the most in seven weeks, according to  Brad Durham , a managing director at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
EPFR Global, which tracks money flows. Gold and precious-metals
outflows totaled $11 million, he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  raised its global growth
forecast for the first time in more than a year on April 17.
Industrial production in China expanded 11.9 percent in March,
exceeding economists’ forecasts, the government said April 13.  Hedge funds increased their bets on higher prices for West
Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark crude grade, by 3.9
percent, the first advance in five weeks. Prices dropped 0.7
percent to settle at $103.11 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  today.  Reserve Requirements  Governments pledged more than $430 billion in fresh money
to the IMF to help it protect the global economy against the
turmoil in Europe, the Group of 20 nations announced when their
finance chiefs met in  Washington  on April 20. The  Bank of Japan (8301) 
is “committed” to monetary easing to shore up the economy,
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said April 18.  China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index rose 2 percent
last week on speculation that the government will increase
fiscal spending on infrastructure and cut banks’ reserve
 requirements  to bolster economic growth. China accounts for 40
percent of copper consumption and 11 percent of oil demand,
 Barclays Capital  and the International Energy Agency estimate.  “China will look at some kind of easing,” said Wiktor Bielski, the London-based global head of commodities research at
VTB Capital, which manages $2.8 billion of assets. “We will see
acceleration in Chinese growth and we are already asking
customers to buy those commodities in which  China  faces a
shortage.”  China’s economy  expanded 8.1 percent last quarter, the
slowest pace in almost three years, the government said April
13. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  cut the nation’s economic growth
target to 7.5 percent last month, the lowest since 2004.  Cotton Prices  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators lowered
wagers on a rally in agricultural commodities by 17 percent to
556,164 futures and options, the biggest slump since Jan. 17.  Speculators have a net-short position of 14,786 contracts
in coffee, the most bearish since December 2008, the CFTC data
show. Bets on lower cotton prices more than doubled to 7,543.
Wagers on a sugar rally tumbled 36 percent to 68,379, the
biggest cut since December 2008.  Sugar prices slumped to a 10-month low April 20 on signs of
increasing supplies from  Brazil , the world’s biggest exporter.
Shipments from the South American country may climb 2.4 percent
in the season starting May 1, a unit of the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said last week.  “We are already in a correction mode,” said Steve Mathews, the chief investment officer of Flintlock Capital Asset
Management LLC in  New York , which manages $116 million of
assets. “The overall mood is bearish. There is a large debt
overhang which needs to be resolved before we can have any
sustained healthy economic performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  