-- Egypt’s Shameful Election Bans May Save Its Democracy
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-04-22T22:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/egypt-s-shameful-election-bans-may-save-its-democracy.html
When is a democracy not a
democracy? Here’s one answer: If you’re free to vote for any of
the candidates on the ballot, but your favorite candidate is
blocked from running.  Egypt  seems to have taken a big step down the path of
undemocratic democracy. Its Supreme Presidential Electoral
Commission blocked three of the most important, viable and
potentially popular candidates from the presidential elections
slated for late May. This upended the field and cast the
political process into disarray. It all but ensured that the
next president of Egypt will be a weak one, destined to defer to
the military even if the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces (do
you sense a “Supreme” theme?) renounces formal political
power.  Despite how bad all this looks, the commission may also
have done Egypt’s long-term prospects for democracy a big favor.  The banned candidates span a wide political range. The most
reactionary is Hazem Abou Ismail, an Islamist who never got the
memo explaining to the new Islamic democrats that to win
elections you have to be moderate. Neither did his supporters.
Abou Ismail was surging on a platform of familiar, if apparently
outdated, conservative Islamist rhetoric, taking a hard line on
Islamic law and  women’s rights .  Appeal to Poor  Like other Salafis who did impressively well in Egypt’s
parliamentary elections this past winter, Abu Ismail is a
populist who appeals to many poor and dispossessed Egyptians.
But unlike those other Islamists, who remarkably have said they
would respect the Camp David accords, he warned darkly that the
U.S. and Israel “pay enormous sums of money to control the
whole society.”  It is certainly true that $1.6 billion in annual U.S.
military and civilian aid is relevant to the other Islamists’
willingness to accept peace with Israel. Abou Ismail’s comment
was not only inflammatory -- it was also threatening to
Egyptians who want to avoid the self-destructive madness of
breaking a 30-year-old strategic alliance with the U.S.  Banning Abou Ismail from the presidential race more or less
makes this problem go away. The remaining serious candidates
agree that the cold peace with  Israel  can be preserved. The
American aid money (or, at least for now, the $1.3 billion in
yearly military assistance) can keep flowing, and the armed
forces can stay happy. Rejectionist Islamism can be treated as
an aberration, not a disturbing trend. The only cost is to the
democratic preferences of Egyptians. (The irony is that,
officially, Abou Ismail was banned for having an American mother
-- which perhaps offers a psychoanalytic angle on his
hostility.)  Although Abou Ismail is no doubt incensed, the  Muslim
Brotherhood  may be feeling relieved that its candidate --
millionaire businessman Khairat el-Shater -- was also barred.
Before and after it dominated parliamentary elections, the
Brotherhood insisted it would not run its own presidential
candidate. This was canny politics: By showing caution in
exercising power, the Brotherhood could reassure the U.S. that
Egypt was not becoming a fundamentalist state. The Brotherhood
also understands that a president from another party would take
much of the blame if Egypt’s serious economic problems are not
solved in a single election cycle.  However, the plan to sit out the presidential race began to
fall apart last year when one of the Brotherhood’s former
leaders, Abdel Moneim Aboul Fotouh, defied party discipline and
announced he would run. The Brotherhood kicked him out, but he
held his ground. Then Abou Ismail began to rise in the polls,
and the Brotherhood faced a risk: The country might elect a
dangerously radical Islamist president, thus queering the pitch
for more moderate Islamic democrats in the future. The
Brotherhood changed course and put forward el-Shater.  Back to Plan  Now the electoral commission has banned el-Shater on the
flimsy ground he had a criminal record -- which he did, but only
because of a political arrest by the Hosni Mubarak regime.
Although the commission may have seen its action as a blow to
the Brotherhood, there’s a good chance the group is happy to go
back to its original plan of trying not to elect a president
from within its ranks.  If el-Shater was ruled ineligible for political crimes, the
third banned candidate was the man who probably ordered the
arrest:  Omar Suleiman , the head of the Mukhabarat (intelligence
services) under Mubarak. Suleiman had briefly tried to hold
power as Mubarak went out the door. Indeed, as the regime
failed, Mubarak made him vice president in what was either a
last ditch attempt to leave behind an ally or a deal that
Mubarak made under duress with the hope of holding on a bit
longer.  Prohibiting the head of the secret police from becoming
president was the least undemocratic of the bans. Many suspect
that, if elected, Suleiman planned to follow in the footsteps of
former KGB officer  Vladimir Putin , winding down democracy from
within. No doubt there are Egyptians who would like to see
something like the old regime re-emerge, as there are Russians
(no one knows how many, because the elections are now rigged)
who are perfectly happy with Putin.  So, while the democratic rights of Suleiman’s supporters
were trampled, the electoral commission did the whole of
Egyptian society a favor by heading off renewed conflict between
Mubarak bitter-enders and the relatively democratic forces of
the new Egypt.  The upshot is that whoever becomes president will be
someone who got the job more or less through the manipulations
of the electoral commission. He (the other main players are all
male) will not represent one of the leading political parties,
which means he will lack the political backing to challenge the
military and will have to try to govern in concert with
Parliament.  A weak president is not necessarily a bad thing for a new
democracy coming out of 60 years of dictatorship. Learning to
make public, accountable deals is the essence of successful
democratic politics. The new president will have to learn to do
this. Then again, so will all Egyptians.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  government’s case 
against book publishers and  Romney’s critique  of Obama’s
Afghanistan policy; William Cohan on more  missing MF Global
money ;  Albert Hunt  on  key swing groups  in the general election;
 Pankaj Mishra  on  Pakistan ’s  rising middle class ; Norm Matloff on
the  ascendancy of the English majors ; and Paul Fourier on
 Europe ’s  social safety net .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 