-- Telecom N.Z. Names Airport Head Moutter as Chief Executive
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-04-23T05:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/telecom-n-z-names-airport-head-moutter-as-new-chief-executive.html
Telecom Corp. of  New Zealand , the
nation’s biggest telephone company, appointed the head of the
country’s busiest airport Simon Moutter as chief executive
officer effective Sept. 1.  Moutter today resigned as CEO of  Auckland International
Airport Ltd. (AIA)  to take up the Telecom role, replacing  Paul Reynolds , according to a statement. He will receive a base
salary of NZ$1.35 million ($1.1 million) plus performance
bonuses in cash and shares.  Moutter, who was chief operating officer at Telecom before
leaving in 2008, will head the nation’s biggest supplier of
phone and broadband services and owner of the second-largest
mobile network. Telecom, which spun off its Chorus Ltd. unit
last year, is cutting costs to help spark a profit recovery.  Moutter’s “knowledge of the telecommunications industry in
New Zealand is strong and deep,” Chairman Mark Verbiest said in
the statement. “He has demonstrated he can deliver growth in a
challenging environment.”  Telecom  shares  rose 1.8 percent to NZ$2.55 at the 5 p.m.
market close in Wellington, the highest close since August 2008.  Moutter will be entitled to NZ$750,000 in cash and shares
worth NZ$600,000 when he meets performance targets set by the
board, the company said. He will be eligible for NZ$1 million in
share rights annually.  The salary and bonus package “represents the market rate”
for a CEO, Verbiest said.  Moutter worked at Telecom from 1999, largely responsible
for network operations before becoming head of operations in
2002. Before that, he was CEO at electricity company Powerco.  “I feel privileged to be selected to lead a resurgent
Telecom,” he said in the statement.  Auckland Airport named Chief Financial Officer Simon
Robertson as acting CEO from September and said it will start a
search for Moutter’s replacement, in a separate statement. The
stock fell 0.5 cents to NZ$2.51.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  