-- England Student Debt Unprecedented as Government Shifts Funding
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-04-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/england-student-debt-unprecedented-as-government-shifts-funding.html
When Alex Winning learned that her
university tuition in  England  for the 2012-2013 year would be
triple what her friends in college now pay, she says the idea of
that much debt upset her.  “It’s a lot of money to pay back compared to people my age
who won’t have that debt,” said Winning, 19, the granddaughter
of Jamaican immigrants who will shell out as much as 9,000
pounds ($14,450) a year to study Korean language and politics.
“It doesn’t seem fair.”  As the U.S. grapples with record-high college costs and
outstanding student loans of $1 trillion, England is embarking
on a plan this year that shifts much of the government’s burden
of paying for higher education to students and saddles graduates
with unprecedented debt.  Some students in England, after  borrowing  for housing and
living expenses, will leave school with as much as 40,000 pounds
($64,200) in debt, said Peter Lampl, founder and chairman of the
Sutton Trust, a  London  nonprofit group that promotes access to
higher education. That tops the $23,300 average debt of U.S.
student borrowers. The debt burden means graduates will defer
buying a home and makes it harder for people from lower-income
backgrounds to catch up, Lampl said.  “In this country, we will be on an order of magnitude
ahead of the U.S.,” Lampl said in an interview. “We’re loading
up these kids with debt. The whole thing is an absolute
disgrace.”  More Forgiving  While many English students will be borrowing more to
attend college, the system is more forgiving than its U.S.
counterpart, said  Steve Smith , vice-chancellor of the University
of Exeter.  English graduates don’t have to repay their loans unless
they make  21,000 pounds  a year. They pay 9 percent of their
earnings over that amount and all debts are forgiven after 30
years. Payments are automatically deducted from paychecks.
Graduates don’t have to pay if they lose their job or transition
to part-time work, as many working mothers do.  A young person making 27,000 pounds a year will end up
repaying about 10 pounds a week and someone in their early 50s
who owes 50,000 pounds has the reassurance that it will soon
disappear, said Smith, who served as president of  Universities
U.K. , an advocacy group that consulted with the government on
the changes.  The plan covers students at England’s 129 universities and
186 vocational schools. Universities in  Scotland ,  Wales  and
 Northern Ireland  have separate funding.  ‘Brutal System’  By contrast, U.S. education debt can’t be discharged
through bankruptcy and almost 2 million Americans with student
debt are over 60, according to the New York Federal Reserve.
About $85 billion in student debt was delinquent in the third
quarter of 2011. In March, the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau said U.S. student-loan debt had reached $1 trillion,
based on preliminary findings.  “The American system is brutal,” said Tim Leunig, who
teaches economic history at the  London School of Economics .  The Obama administration introduced an income-based
repayment program in 2009 for U.S. borrowers who take out
certain types of federal student loans. The plan limits debt
payments to a percentage of a family’s income for graduates and
erases the debt after 25 years. For those with government or
nonprofit jobs, the debt can be forgiven after 10 years.  About 630,000 U.S. borrowers are enrolled in the program,
while millions more are eligible, said  Lauren Asher , president
of the  Institute for College Access & Success , a nonprofit
organization based in Oakland,  California .  ‘Really Big Loan’  Sarah Chelh, 18, from Hackney in east London, said she was
furious at the government for the fee increases and joined
student protests. She said she gave serious thought to not going
to college at all and looked at apprenticeships before deciding
to pursue her interest in economics at a university.  To improve her grades, Chelh took an extra year before
applying, a decision that will cost her three times as much for
her first year at college as the government phases in the higher
tuition rates.  “It’s not fair,” said Chelh, whose parents are from
 Morocco . “I could have potentially paid for a couple of years
of tuition or my parents might have been able to pay. Instead,
I’ll have to be taking out a loan, a really big loan.”  Free Before 1998  Higher education in England was free until 1998, when
students were charged 1,000 pounds. The tuition increased to
3,000 pounds in 2006, and rose with inflation each year after.  In the U.S., the average tuition and fees for 2011-2012 at
public universities is $8,244 (5,136 pounds) a year for state
residents and $28,500 at private schools, according to the
 College Board , a New York-based nonprofit group whose members
include U.S. universities.  The new English system, unveiled in June by the coalition
government of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats, is designed
to reduce taxpayer support while introducing competition among
universities for the top students, said David Willetts, the
Conservative minister for universities and science.  Universities can now enroll as many of England’s best
students as they can attract, after years in which admissions
were capped by the government. Universities admitting lower-
achieving students will face reductions in their enrollment cap
unless they charge less than 7,500 pounds.  ‘Larger Agenda’  “It’s not simply a set of financing changes,” Willetts
said at a March conference of European university leaders at the
University of Warwick in Coventry. “There is a larger agenda.
It is a model that does ensure the sustainability of our
excellent universities in Britain.”  The  Higher Education Funding Council for England , the
agency that provides English universities with most of their
government revenue, cut its distribution by 19 percent to 5.3
billion pounds for 2012-2013 from the previous academic year.
Most of the cuts were in teaching funds, and are expected to be
replaced by student tuition. The government will still pay for
most university research, and will subsidize the teaching of
some expensive subjects like sciences.  HEFCE’s budget is 0.8 percent of estimated U.K.  government
spending  for 2012-2013, according to Treasury data. The U.K.
spends 1.2 percent of its GDP on all higher education, including
vocational schools, compared to 2.7 percent in the U.S.,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, using 2008 data, the most recent available. The
figures include public and private sources of revenue, such as
government grants, tuition and philanthropy.  ‘Widespread Fear’  In the rest of  Europe , where higher education is free or
relatively inexpensive, governments are watching to see if the
U.K. plan succeeds, said Jens Oddershede, president of the
University of Southern  Denmark  in Odense, and the chairman of
Universities Denmark, an advocacy group.  It’s creating “widespread fear all over Europe” among
college administrators that the region will move toward a high-
fee, high-loan system, Oddershede said. He pointed to the U.S.
model, calling it “a system that can serve a capitalist society
like America but wouldn’t work in a small country like
Denmark.”  The prospect of rising tuition angers European students,
who say they had no role in causing the financial collapse but
are being made to pay for it.  “What caused the debt?” Allan Pall, head of the Brussels-
based  European Students Union , said in a speech at the European
university conference. “Did we spend too much on higher
education? We should ask that question instead of rushing to cut
the first thing we see, the thing that creates jobs and
growth.”  Student Applications  While students have protested, applications through Jan. 15
fell just 1 percent, when adjusted for a decline in the college-
aged population in England, according to the  Universities and
Colleges Admissions Service , which manages university
applications.  That’s not surprising, given the importance of a college
education for finding a high-paying job, Lampl said.  “Poor kids, low-income kids know they have to get an
education,” Lampl said. “They’re not stupid.”  Asta Diabate, 18, who lives in Lewisham in south London,
said the higher fees don’t faze her.  “I’m not worried, because it’s something that’s
valuable,” said Diabate, who will start college in 2013. “It’s
not like I’m going to pay upfront and installments are so low,
it shouldn’t really bother me” when repaying the loan.  Repaying the Debt  While the plan was devised partly to reduce government
spending, it may ultimately cost more because many borrowers
won’t pay back all they owe, said Nicholas Barr, a professor of
public economics at the  London School  of Economics. About 70
percent of the loans will be repaid because of the 21,000-pound
income threshold and the 30-year forgiveness period, according
to government estimates.  Instead of expanding access for students, university spots
will continue to be restricted, which will hurt the economy and
social mobility, Barr said.  Last year,  498,119 students  applied for university spots
and 368,316 were accepted, according to the application service.  Winning, who hopes to begin her Korean studies in September
at the University of London’s School of Oriental and African
Studies, said her mother struggled to pay back a much smaller
student loan after she went to college.  “I’m afraid one day that I’m going to be stuck in that
mess,” Winning said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  