-- European Insurers May See ‘Golden Year’ as Disasters Push Prices
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-04-22T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/european-insurers-may-see-golden-year-as-disasters-push-prices.html
Europe ’s biggest insurers and
reinsurers, including  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) ,
are using last year’s losses from natural catastrophes and auto
underwriting to increase policy prices.  Allianz, Europe’s biggest insurer, expects higher profit
this year, helped by the “high single-digit price increase” it
secured for German motor insurance in 2011. Zurich Insurance,
 Switzerland ’s biggest insurer, reported that general insurance
rates rose by more than 3 percent last year.  The record $105 billion of natural disaster claims that
depressed earnings last year may give insurers and reinsurers
that help them shoulder risks for clients the leverage to push
through property and casualty price increases. That will help
counter the effect of low  interest rates , which are crimping
investment returns. Yields on German 10-year bunds fell close to
an all-time low this month.  “2012 could become a golden year for insurers and
reinsurers off the back of last year’s high claims,” said
Michael Haid, an equity analyst at MainFirst Group in Frankfurt.
“Insurers and reinsurers need to show they can push through
price increases if they want to assure investors they can
succeed in the low interest rate environment.”  Net income at Munich-based Allianz may double to 5.29
billion euros ($7 billion) this year, according to the mean
estimate of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Only two of the
39 analysts who rated the stock in 2012 have sell ratings while
23 say buy, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Steady Process  Profit at Zurich Insurance, which had major catastrophe
losses of $1 billion last year, is expected to climb 12 percent
to $4.22 billion, according to analysts, who have 10 times more
buy than sell ratings on the shares.  “Price increases that were pushed through last year will
help net income this year,” said Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-
based analyst with Vontobel Holding AG. “Price increases are
likely to continue in many markets, which is a slow, steady
process.”  The 28-company Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index climbed
9.8 percent this year, led by  Swiss Re AG (SREN)  and Munich Re with
gains of 23 percent and 21 percent respectively. Allianz rose
almost 15 percent and Zurich Insurance 13 percent. The index
declined more than 13 percent in 2011.  Global property insurance rates “continued to firm” in
the first three months of the year, underpinned by last year’s
catastrophe losses,  Marsh & McLennan Cos. (MMC) , the world’s second-
biggest insurance broker, said in a  report  this month.  ‘Solid Growth’  Allianz is seeing “favorable price effects in several
markets” and expects “solid growth” in its property-casualty
segment, Chief Executive Officer Michael Diekmann said last
month in the Munich-based insurer’s annual report. The company
aims to boost operating profit by as much as 11 percent this
year.  In motor insurance,  Germany ’s biggest segment of P&C
coverage, premium income climbed 3.5 percent to 20.9 billion
euros last year as the average policy price rose for the first
time since 2004, the  GDV  industry association said on April 18.
Motor insurance rates are still at a level comparable to the
beginning of the 1980s, the association said.  Insurers are trying to cut costs and boost prices amid
slowing economic growth and market turmoil, said Axel Lehmann,
chief risk officer at Zurich Insurance.  Changing Times  “Since the end of the Second World War we have had
continuous growth, but these times are changing,” Lehmann said
in an interview. “To overcome declining investment income
insurers need to cut costs, improve their underwriting and focus
on risk-adjusted prices.”  Reinsurance rates rose in April 1 renewals, which focus on
the Asia Pacific region, after last year’s losses from
earthquakes and floods in  Japan ,  Thailand  and  New Zealand ,
Marsh’s reinsurance broker Guy Carpenter & Co. said on April 5.
About two-thirds of annual property and casualty reinsurance
contracts typically come up for renewal in January, with the
remainder renewed in April and July.  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, expects more
price increases this year, particularly in loss-affected
regions. The firm’s aggregate losses from natural catastrophes
almost tripled to 4.5 billion euros last year.  Primary property and casualty “prices are starting to
rise, but are not yet enough to compensate for the interest rate
decline,” Swiss Re, the world’s second-ranked reinsurer, said
on April 17. Pricing trends are on an “improving track,”
according to  George Quinn , chief financial officer at Swiss Re,
which had about $3.48 billion of large natural catastrophe
claims in 2011.  Catastrophe Looms  While Aon Benfield estimates that natural disasters caused
less than $3 billion of insured losses in the first quarter,
compared with almost $53 billion in the year-earlier period,
they remain a threat to earnings forecasts, said  Christian Muschick , an analyst with Silvia Quandt Research in  Frankfurt .
The  Atlantic hurricane season  starts on June 1 and runs through
the end of November.  “Whatever happens on the pricing front will be
overshadowed by the magnitude of catastrophe claims,” said
Muschick. “One major hurricane hitting the U.S. could knock
down earnings in one swift blow. Higher prices surely won’t be
able to counter that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  