-- MF Global Bondholders Feel Duped, With Good Reason
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-04-22T22:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/mf-global-bondholders-feel-duped-with-good-reason.html
Much has been written about the
$1.2 billion that remains missing from the accounts of  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s customers, one of the most egregious violations
of trust on Wall Street at a time when confidence in the
behavior of financial executives is extremely low.  Less discussed -- but equally outrageous -- are the losses
suffered by bondholders who feel they were duped by MF Global
executives during the summer of 2011 into investing $650
million. MF Global executives told these investors that
everything at the company was just fine when, in fact, capital
and liquidity were in devastatingly short supply.  On July 28 and again on Aug. 3, MF Global raised $325
million by selling bonds -- the first a  3.375 percent
convertible-note  offering, due 2018; the other a  6.25 percent
senior note  offering, due 2016. Thanks to the company’s collapse
and subsequent bankruptcy filing on Oct. 31, these two bond
offerings now trade at around 35 cents on the dollar. What in
August 2011 was worth $650 million is now valued at about $227
million, a staggering loss of around $423 million in a matter of
months.  It’s true that in the annals of Wall Street, creditors have
suffered bigger losses --  Lehman Brothers , anyone? Yet, for
sheer speed and chutzpah, the actions of MF Global’s management
may stand alone.  Misleading Statements  Not surprisingly, in addition to all the other lawsuits
that MF Global executives and board of directors are facing, one
brought by the buyers of these notes is wending its way through
federal court in the Southern District of  New York . The
plaintiffs make a compelling argument that they were duped by
the public statements of  Jon Corzine , MF Global’s former chief
executive officer, and the company’s Securities and Exchange
Commission filings.  The class-action complaint claims that MF Global’s collapse
was caused by management’s “wholesale disregard for its
purported risk management and internal controls as MF Global
sought to transform itself from broker-dealer to a full service
investment bank at all costs.”  The plaintiffs feel that Corzine’s ambition led him to make
the reckless bet of at least $6.4 billion on the sovereign debt
of several economically struggling European countries. “This
strategy utterly failed,” the complaint states, and the
company’s management and board “sought to bail out MF Global by
raising desperately needed capital through the materially false
and misleading” bond-offering documents.  Among other examples, the plaintiffs cite the statements MF
Global made in its  2011 Form 10-K  about its abundant liquidity
as evidence that the company was intentionally misleading
investors.  “Our policy requires us to have sufficient liquidity to
satisfy all of our expected cash needs for at least one year
without access to the  capital markets ,” reads the form. “To
manage our  liquidity risk , we have established a liquidity
policy designed to ensure that we maintain access to sufficient,
readily available liquid assets and committed liquidity
facilities.”  The plaintiffs argue these statements were false. “MF
Global was suffering from severe liquidity pressures” -- as
quickly became evident -- “based on its exposure to the
European debt crisis through its enormous holdings of European
sovereign debt,” according to the complaint. “MF Global was
materially undercapitalized.”  Risky European Bets  Further, the plaintiffs claim, whereas the offering
documents for the bonds claimed that the use of proceeds would
be partly for “general corporate purposes” -- a typical catch-
all -- MF Global management knew that large chunks of the $650
million were “desperately needed to provide required liquidity
and working capital given the then-deterioration in value of MF
Global’s $6.4 billion holdings of European sovereign debt.”  In almost every bankruptcy filing, bondholders take it on
the chin. That is to be expected. And few tears should be shed
for sophisticated investors who miscalculate the risks of owning
securities in companies that are highly leveraged and have new
management intent on changing business plans. (By last summer,
it was certainly no secret that Corzine intended to change the
way MF Global conducted its business by making big bets with
other people’s money. He said as much publicly on several
occasions.)  Still, the level of deception by MF Global’s executives and
board members demands that they be held personally accountable
for the losses suffered by these bondholders -- just as they
should be held personally liable for the losses suffered by MF’s
customers. It seems to me, demanding this level of
accountability -- which, of course, their lawyers will say is
unjustified -- is the only way  Wall Street  executives will begin
to take seriously their fiduciary duties to their customers,
counterparties and creditors.  At the moment, though, that is just a columnist’s fantasy.
No MF Global executives have been held accountable for their
actions, more than six months after the firm’s collapse and
billions of dollars of other people’s money have been lost. Come
to think of it, no one else on Wall Street has been held
accountable for blowing up our economy, either. How can this
still be the case?  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  government’s case 
against book publishers and  Romney’s critique  of Obama’s
Afghanistan policy;  Albert Hunt  on  key swing groups  in the
general election;  Noah Feldman  on  Egypt’s bungled elections ;
 Pankaj Mishra  on  Pakistan ’s  rising middle class ; Norm Matloff on
the  ascendancy of the English majors ; and Paul Fourier on
 Europe ’s  social safety net .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 