-- Floating Offshore Wind Kit Gets Spur From U.S., Britain
-- B y   R e e d   L a n d b e r g
-- 2012-04-23T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/floating-offshore-wind-kit-gets-spur-from-u-s-britain.html
Britain and the U.S. said they’d
fund work on offshore wind generation technologies that work in
waters as much as 500 feet deep, a measure aimed at opening vast
new areas of ocean to development.  U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu and his U.K. counterpart
Edward Davey said their departments will collaborate on ways to
spur development of floating platforms for offshore  wind
turbines  that can be stationed in depths beyond 60 meters (200
feet), the limit for traditional structures fixed to the seabed.  “Turbines will be able to locate in ever-deeper waters
where the wind is stronger but without the expense of
foundations down to the seabed,” Davey said today in a
statement from the Department of Energy and Climate Change.  The pact is the first of a series of agreements the U.K.
government plans to sign with some of the 23 nations represented
at the Clean Energy Ministerial meeting this week in  London . Chu
and Davy are hosting the gathering, where ministers will discuss
practical steps to spread clean energy technologies.  Investors such as Japanese trading house  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  and
pension funds including PensionDanmark A/S are channeling money
into European wind projects as governments step up support for
weaning utilities off fossil fuels.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) ,
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Siemens AG (SIE)  are building turbines for
use offshore.  Offshore Wind  Britain and Germany are leading construction of 35.5
gigawatts of offshore wind plants by 2020, requiring about 127
billion euros ($167 billion) of investment, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The facilities will provide 3.2
percent of the European Union’s electricity demand.  Floating wind systems would put turbines out of sight from
land, where residents have objected to sites such as the Cape
Wind facility off Nantucket in Massachussets. About 67 percent
of Britons favor use of wind power, Ipsos Mori Ltd. said in a
release today following a survey of 1,009 adults across the U.K.  “Wind energy is recognized by the majority as having an
important role in  energy security  and reducing carbon
emissions,” Maria McCafferty, chief executive of the Renewable
UK lobby group, said in a statement. “This sends a clear signal
to U.K. ministers who are preparing to introduce the electricity
market reform to Parliament.”  U.K. Potential  Britain has about a third of the potential sites for
offshore wind farms in  Europe , more than any other nation.
Traditional offshore wind turbines are fixed to towers cemented
to the seabed and are limited to waters shallow enough to
support such structures. Many of those will be developed by
2020.  Davey wants to push turbines into deeper waters where winds
are consistently stronger. That would require floating platforms
for the turbines -- much like the kind the oil industry relies
on to tap deposits in the  North Sea  and  Gulf of Mexico . Turbines
on floating systems also could be towed to shore for more
extensive repairs, saving maintenance costs, Davey said.  “Floating wind turbines will allow us to exploit more of
our wind resource, potentially more cheaply,” Davey said.
“Britain has more wind turbines installed around its shores
than any other country in the world and our market is rated year
after year as the most attractive market among investors.”  Combining Programs  Today’s agreement will bring together separate British and
U.S. government programs on renewable energy technologies.  Britain is offering 25 million pounds ($40.2 million) to
contractors who can demonstrate floating offshore wind
technology and will pick winners of the funds next year. The
program seeks turbines that can generate as much as 7 megawatts
of power by 2016. The U.S. has offered $180 million for four
demonstration projects, one of which may include a floating wind
power system.  Countries represented at the Clean Energy Ministerial
include Australia, Brazil, Canada,  China , Denmark, Finland,
France,  Germany , India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico,
Norway, Russia,  South Africa , Spain, Sweden, United Arab
Emirates, the U.K. and U.S. as well as the European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  