-- Kings Oust Canucks From NHL Playoffs as Rangers Seek Survival
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-23T04:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/flyers-defeat-penguins-5-1-to-reach-second-round-in-nhl-playoffs.html
One top seed has been eliminated
from the National Hockey League playoffs. The  New York Rangers 
will try to avoid becoming the second when they play tonight in
Ottawa against the Senators.  The Los Angeles Kings beat Vancouver 2-1 last night in
overtime to eliminate a Canucks team that had an NHL-best 51-22-
9 record and was the top seed in the Western Conference.  The Kings won the best-of-seven first-round series four
games to one and advance to play the  St. Louis Blues  in the
second round. The Canucks become the third team in the past four
years to finish with the league’s best record and lose in the
opening round of the playoffs.  “We had really high hopes coming into the postseason and
we let ourselves down, we let our fans down,” Canucks goalie
Cory Schneider told reporters. “It’s tough to swallow.”  The Rangers, who are the top seed in the Eastern Conference
after going 51-24-7, are down 3-2 in their series against the
eighth-seeded Senators entering tonight’s game and need a
victory to force a decisive Game 7 in  New York .  “We have a resilient group and we have confidence,”
Rangers captain  Ryan Callahan  said.  The  Pittsburgh Penguins , who entered the playoffs as
oddsmakers’ favorites to win the Stanley Cup, were ousted from
the postseason yesterday with a 5-1 loss to the  Philadelphia
Flyers . Also yesterday, the Boston Bruins topped the  Washington 
Capitals 4-3 overtime to force a Game 7.  The  Chicago Blackhawks  host the Phoenix Coyotes tonight in
Game 6 of their Western Conference series and need a victory to
send the teams back to Phoenix for a decisive seventh game.  Kings Advance  The Kings moved into the second round of the playoffs and
ousted the Canucks as Jarret Stoll scored the winning goal 4:27
into overtime last night in  Vancouver .  The Canucks lost all three home games in the series.  After the Penguins and Sidney Crosby twice avoided
elimination with wins of 10-3 and 3-2, the Flyers rebounded at
home yesterday to win their series four games to two.  The Flyers have won each of the 10 playoff series in which
they’ve led 3-0 in games, though coach Peter Laviolette said
eliminating the Penguins carries added weight.  “There’s something about Pittsburgh, their history
recently and probably being favorites in a lot of people’s
minds, to be able to play the way our group did and to be able
to move on I think speaks volumes about our group,” Laviolette
said at a post-game news conference. “It’s real satisfying to
be able to move on against that team.”  Giroux Shines  Claude Giroux  scored his sixth goal of the series in the
first minute and finished with three points for the Flyers, who
have to wait until the remaining Eastern Conference first-round
series are finished to determine their next opponent.  Scott Hartnell, Erik Gustafsson and Danny Briere added
goals over the first two periods as the Flyers opened a 4-1 lead
at the  Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia.  Goaltender Ilya Bryzgalov made 30 saves and Brayden Schenn
capped the scoring with an empty-net goal for Philadelphia,
which has lost in the  Stanley Cup  Finals six times since
claiming its only NHL titles in 1974 and 1975.  The defending Stanley Cup-champion Bruins forced a seventh
game against the Capitals as Tyler Seguin scored the winning
goal 3:17 into overtime in Washington.  The winning score came after a giveaway by the Capitals’
Nicklas Backstrom. Seguin took the puck in the middle of the ice
off passes from  David Krejci  and Milan Lucic, then held it as
Capitals goaltender Braden Holtby went down for the save and
fired a wrist shot into the open net.  “I just faked a shot and was lucky that it went in,”
Seguin, who added an assist, said in a televised interview.  Rich Peverley , Krejci and Andrew Ference added goals for
the second-seeded Bruins, who will host Game 7 on April 25.  Mike Green, Jason Chimera and  Alex Ovechkin  scored goals
for the Capitals. All six games in the series have been decided
by a single goal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  