-- GM Sees Presidential Prestige Boosting Cadillac in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-23T07:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/gm-sees-presidential-prestige-boosting-cadillac-in-china.html
As  General Motors Co. (GM)  executives
celebrated the opening of a special pavilion in Beijing to woo
luxury customers away from Audi, a subtle message about the
brand stood on display: a scale model of Cadillac’s U.S.
presidential limousine.  GM is betting Cadillac’s 110-year heritage, including its
role as the president’s car, can help sell the brand in China,
where sales are a 10th of market leader  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi and
German luxury brands dominate the premium segment.  The U.S. automaker, a year after reclaiming global sales
leadership, is preparing a renewed Cadillac push in China with
plans to introduce new products, increase local production and
expand sales outlets as it aims to boost sales in the country at
least fivefold to match U.S. deliveries by 2020. Narrowing the
gap against Audi can help keep GM ahead of VW.  “Chinese may or may not like America, but they definitely
like the power that’s associated with America,” said  Michael
Dunne , a Jakarta-based industry analyst and author. “They
admire, respect and like power and America is the world’s
leading superpower, so owning an American car offers an
opportunity to be part of that.”  The Cadillac push in China, where the automaker mostly
sells Chevrolet, Buick and Wuling models, is part of Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson’s effort to raise profit margins
and develop Cadillac as a top global brand to hedge against the
risk of declining sales of high-profit trucks.  Cadillac Catch-Up  GM plans to bring a new Cadillac model to China each year
through 2016, Akerson said today at the Beijing auto show. The
goal is for Cadillac sales in  China  to reach U.S. levels by mid-
decade, he said.  While Cadillac’s China sales rose 73 percent last year to
30,000, Audi increased sales by more than Cadillac’s total.
Audi’s full-year tally of 308,808 made it the country’s luxury
leader, according to LMC Automotive, and helped propel VW ahead
of Toyota in 2011 global sales to trail only Detroit-based GM.  “Talk luxury cars in China and you’re really talking about
German domination,” Dunne said. The three German high-end
brands dominate China’s upscale auto market, with a combined
share of more than 75 percent last year, according to figures by
industry analyst LMC Automotive.  Cadillac’s pavilion in Beijing, erected in connection with
the city’s auto show that begins this week, is intended to
highlight the brand’s uniqueness. Influential guests will be
invited to see art, such as works by pop icon  Andy Warhol  and
contemporary Chinese artist Yue Minjun, displayed around classic
and modern Cadillac cars.  Luxury Defined  “We want to create a whole story and tell customers and
people here that Cadillac is different,” Kevin Chen, general
manager of the Cadillac brand in China, said during an April 21
interview at the monthlong exhibit’s opening for local media.
“We own the asset; nobody can replicate” Cadillac’s history,
he said.  At the pavilion, GM displayed a 1927 Webster’s dictionary,
opened to the entry for Cadillac: “Something that is the most
outstanding or prestigious of its kind.”  Cadillac has lost some of its luster as the world’s luxury
car market has grown more competitive. Akerson wants to restore
the brand and push Cadillac into the top tier globally along
with German competitors  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW brand
and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz. He aims to overtake  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus  to become the fourth-best selling premium brand,
people familiar with the plans have said.  Hedging Truck Profit  Part of the reason is to make up for less profits on
trucks. GM acknowledges that planned tougher U.S. mileage
standards, known as corporate average fuel economy, or CAFE, may
hurt sales of large pickups.  While GM benefits from high-margin, high-volume pickup
sales, “Volkswagen has luxury,” Steve Girsky, GM vice
chairman, said of the competitor’s Audi brand. “And if you
believe the truck business, because of CAFE or whatever reason,
is at risk of going down, globalizing Cadillac and getting more
out of your luxury brands is a priority, and it’s a priority for
us.”  Akerson is making his push to restore Cadillac first in the
U.S. and in China, where the luxury auto market may grow 15
percent this year, according to LMC.  By 2020, GM anticipates half of the world’s luxury goods to
be consumed in China,  Don Butler , vice president of Cadillac
marketing, said in an interview this month in Warren,  Michigan .
He spent time with Chinese luxury consumers in December and said
the brand is highly esteemed, in part because its models have
been used to shuttle U.S. presidents from  Woodrow Wilson  to
 Ronald Reagan ,  Bill Clinton  and  Barack Obama .  “We are held in essentially the same regard as BMW and
Audi and Mercedes-Benz, and part of it does go back to this
really fond association with America” and its image of power
and success, Butler said. “It’s the car of presidents.”  Import Disadvantage  Part of Cadillac’s difficulty in China has been a lack of
local production, leaving its vehicles more expensive than those
made locally by competitors. The only Cadillac model now made in
China is the SLS sedan.  “The premium makers are really enjoying a lot of good
profitability in China, but beyond that, the efficiencies that
they can gain in their global buying activity from the kind of
scale that is generated from the Chinese demand is tremendous,”
said  Bill Russo , president of auto consultancy Synergistics Inc.  GM plans to make the new XTS sedan in the country, Akerson
said. Production may begin late this year followed by assembly
of the ATS compact car in the first half of next year, said two
people familiar with the matter. GM is also considering the
redesigned CTS for China production, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the plans haven’t been made public.
Dayna Hart, a GM spokeswoman, declined to comment on future
production.  Along with adding Cadillac production in China, GM also
plans to expand the dealer network. Cadillac, which had 11
stores in China at the end of 2006, now has 69 with plans to
double the number over the next year, the people said.  Styling Stumbles  Cadillac has also suffered from having too few products
that appeal to Chinese taste. The brand’s styling has held it
back in the past, said Dunne, the analyst, who wrote a book
called “American Wheels, Chinese Roads: The Story of General
Motors in China.”  Some Chinese consumers, he said, have referred to the brand
as “ben zhong,” which roughly translates to “dumb” and
“heavy.”  GM executives such as Butler and Chen say that the new
styling of the SRX sport-utility vehicle has appealed to
customers and that they believe the ATS compact sedan will also
help attract new buyers.  Younger Buyers  While Cadillac faces hurdles in China, it doesn’t carry the
same kinds of brand baggage as in the U.S. where it has
struggled to appeal to younger buyers. The average age of U.S.
Cadillac buyers is 63, according to J.D. Power & Associates,
while in China, GM said it’s 35.  Simon Gao, a 33-year-old entrepreneur in  Shanghai , is one
of those young customers. He visited a dealership in March in
Shanghai to buy an SRX, which starts for 429,800 yuan, or about
$68,100, 90 percent more than the beginning price in the U.S.
Audi’s Q5 SUV, which is assembled in China, starts for 383,600
yuan, or about $60,800.  Gao is the kind of customer Cadillac is targeting, even if
he wasn’t familiar with the brand when he began shopping.  “I knew it was an American brand, top of the range for GM,
but it was the robust exterior that attracted me to it,” Gao
said in an interview. “The SRX is a very manly car. There were
too many Audi Q5s on the road, and the design was rather unisex.
I wanted a car that was very manly, and when you look at the
SRX, you instantly know a man’s going to drive it.”  At the dealership Gao visited in Shanghai, a sitting area
for customers included a display of U.S. presidents, including
Reagan and Obama, who have used Cadillac as their official car.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tim Higgins in Beijing at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Beijing at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  