-- India’s Mukherjee Says Practical Considerations Delay IMF Pledge
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-04-22T16:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/india-s-mukherjee-says-practical-considerations-delay-imf-pledge.html
India  has yet to announce extra
resources for the  International Monetary Fund  because of
“practical” considerations, not because it’s waiting to be
granted more voting power within the Washington-based lender,
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said.  The “presumed” conclusion is that Brazil, Russia, India
and China “will contribute to increase the fund on fulfillment
of certain conditions,” Mukherjee told reporters in Washington
today. “It is not the case,” he said, adding “there are some
practical problems of making an announcement at this meeting.”  Governments last week committed more than $430 billion in
fresh money to the IMF, nearly doubling the fund’s firepower, to
help it protect the world economy against deepening debt turmoil
in  Europe . While the U.K. and South Korea were among those
making specific pledges, Brazil said emerging markets would
condition their help on being handed more power within the IMF.  While Mukherjee said he had obtained Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh’s approval over the telephone to commit funding
to the IMF, the normal practice is to get the approval of the
Cabinet. That process to determine the amount of resources India
will contribute has yet to be completed, he said.  Russia, China  There were similar problems with other BRIC nations
announcing a specific amount at this time, Mukherjee said. The
Russian representatives to the meetings said the formation of
their country’s new government wasn’t yet complete, while
Chinese officials said “they will take time to adjust their
internal process of decision-making,’” Mukherjee said.  Brazil ’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said that the so-
called BRIC nations will outline their pledges before June’s
G-20 summit in Los Cabos, Mexico. Mantega said aid should be
tied to commitments to give emerging markets a bigger say in how
the IMF is managed. The U.S. and other nations have yet to
ratify a 2010 agreement to increase the voting power of such
economies.  While 70 percent of the votes are needed to approve the
proposed quota reforms, there is still a “shortfall” of about
15 percent to 16 percent, Mukherjee said today. Negotiations are
also ongoing about further reforms beyond the ones proposed in
2010, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  