-- ITALY DAYBOOK: Italy Aims to Cut Spending, Salini Presentation
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-04-22T15:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/italy-daybook-italy-aims-to-cut-spending-salini-presentation.html
The Italian government aims to cut
state spending by 20 billion euros ($26.4 billion) to 25 billion
euros, newspaper  Corriere della Sera  reported. The spending
review, which will be presented in a few days, has a
“fundamental role” in Prime Minister Mario Monti’s plan to
reduce debt, Corriere reported.  Measures being considered include slashing rent costs by
relocating to vacant public buildings and bringing together
agencies, Corriere said. The plan may also increase the role of
Consip, the government agency that runs public tenders, to
centralize purchases, and a review of the tech platforms of
ministries and local administrations, the daily said.  Some ministers including the Interior and Defense are
opposing possible cuts to their departments, Corriere said.  Events for April 23. All times are local.  WHAT TO WATCH: -- Deputy Finance Minister Vittorio Grilli
is set to speak before the Budget Committee of the Parliament’s
Lower House on Italy’s economic outlook at 11 a.m.
-- Bank of Italy’s representatives set to testify at Chamber of
Deputies.
-- Italy consumer confidence indicator 10 a.m.  CORPORATE EVENTS:
--  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)   will release first-quarter
results after the close of trading in New York. ST-Ericsson, its
wireless-chip joint venture with Ericsson AB, will provide a
strategic update before the European market opens on April 23.
-- Salini Costruttori SpA holds a press conference on “A leader
in competence with scale to compete” at 2:30 p.m. Salini may
have increased its stake in builder  Impregilo SpA (IPG)   to
“slightly more” than 29 percent, matching the holding of Gavio
Group, Il Sole 24 Ore reported.
--  Saipem SpA (SPM)  ,  Sorin SpA (SRN)   and Gruppo Editoriale
L’Espresso (ES IM) are set to report first-quarter results.  EQUITIES:
--  Unipol Gruppo Finanziario SpA (UNI)   may lower the swap
ratio in a planned merger with  Fondiaria-SAI SpA (FSA)  to control 60
percent to 65 percent of the company once the deal is completed,
il Messaggero reported. Unipol previously proposed holding 66.7
percent of the new entity. As part of the new terms being
discussed,  Premafin Finanziaria SpA (PF) , Fondiaria’s controlling
shareholder, may convert all of its debt into a convertible
bond, Messaggero reported.
--  A2A SpA (A2A)  (A2A IM) doesn’t need a capital increase as the
company is financially and industrially “sound,” Giuseppe
Sala, chairman of the utility’s management board, told la
Repubblica.
--  Benetton Group SpA (BEN)  . Chairman Luciano Benetton will
be replaced in his role by his son Alessandro, according to an
interview with Corriere della Sera. Luciano Benetton told the
daily he will leave the positions he holds in the company on
April 24.
--  Brembo SpA (BRE)   may see “significant” growth in first-
quarter results, Il Sole 24 Ore cited Vice Chairman Matteo
Tiraboschi as saying. Earnings in the first three months
probably grew by double digits, Tiraboschi was reported as
saying by Il Sole.
--  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)   sees eastern Europe as a
strategic market with “good growth prospects,” Chairman
Gabriele Galateri told daily La Stampa. The company is
diversifying in countries including China, India and Brazil,
Galateri said, according to the report.  MARKETS:
-- Prime Minister Monti “hopes” that the International
Monetary Fund’s increase in lending power will help markets
regain confidence, daily Il Sole 24 Ore reported.
-- The benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  rose 0.8 percent to 14,401.78  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  