-- Juventus Beats Roma 4-0 to Lead Milan by Three Points in Serie A
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-04-22T22:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/juventus-beats-roma-4-0-to-lead-milan-by-three-points-in-serie-a.html
Juventus beat Roma 4-0 to take a
three-point lead atop Italian soccer’s Serie A over AC Milan,
which failed to win for a third time in four games.  Borussia
Dortmund  clinched the German title and Real  Madrid  extended its
advantage in Spain.  Arturo Vidal got two goals in the opening eight minutes,
 Andrea Pirlo  added a third from the penalty spot and Claudio
Marchisio completed the scoring in the second half for unbeaten
Juventus, which is chasing its first title since 2003.  Milan rescued a 1-1 draw against Bologna yesterday on a
late goal from Zlatan Ibrahimovic. Gaston Ramirez put Bologna
ahead in the first half.  Genoa’s home match against Siena was halted for 30 minutes
because of crowd disturbances with the visitors four goals ahead.
The game finished 4-1.  Real Madrid beat Barcelona 2-1 in “El Clasico” two days
ago to stretch its lead in  Spain ’s Primera Liga to seven points
with four rounds of matches to play.  Sami Khedira and  Cristiano Ronaldo  scored for Madrid at the
Camp Nou as Real handed second-place Barcelona a first home loss
in 55 games.  Alexis Sanchez  got the home team’s goal.  Third-place Valencia, which is 33 points behind Madrid, won
4-0 against Real Betis yesterday and leads Malaga by five points.
Malaga faces Osasuna in today’s match.  Dortmund Wins Title  Two days ago, Borussia Dortmund beat Borussia
Moenchengladbach 2-0 to claim its second consecutive Bundesliga
championship.  Dortmund, which extended its unbeaten run to 26 league
games, holds an eight-point lead over  Bayern Munich  with two
games remaining. Bayern won 2-1 at Werder Bremen.  Third-place Schalke leads Moenchengladbach by two points in
the race for the final automatic Champions League place after
being held to a 1-1 tie at Augsburg yesterday.  Paris Saint-Germain kept the gap to Ligue 1 leader
Montpellier at two points following a 6-1 victory against
Sochaux yesterday. Montpellier beat Valenciennes 1-0 the
previous day.  Defending champion Lille defeated Dijon 2-0 two days ago
and is a further five points back.  Ajax remains on course for its 31st Dutch league title
after a 2-0 win against Groningen yesterday maintained its six-
point lead over  AZ Alkmaar  and Feyenoord with three games to
play.  AZ beat VVV Venlo 2-1 and Feyenoord defeated Den Haag 2-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 