-- Kipsang and Keitany Win London Marathons as Kenyans Dominate
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-04-22T23:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/kipsang-keitany-win-london-marathons-as-kenya-dominates.html
Wilson Kipsang won the men’s  London 
Marathon yesterday on a day of Kenyan domination. His compatriot
Mary Keitany won the women’s event, her second straight victory
in the race.  Kipsang clocked a time of two hours, four minutes and 44
seconds, four seconds slower than the course record for the
26.2-mile (42.2-kilometer) race, which started in southeast
London and ended at the Mall, near  Buckingham Palace .  Three-time London champion Martin Lel of Kenya was second
in 2:06:51 as he overtook  Ethiopia ’s Tsegaye Kebede, the 2010
winner, in the final stages. Kipsang, the second-fastest
marathon runner of all time, led for the last five miles of the
event.  “I knew when I went away they’d have to work very, very
hard to beat me as I was feeling very good in myself,” the
Kenyan told reporters. “I’m sorry I didn’t break the record but
winning is the most important thing.”  World record-holder Patrick Makau of  Kenya  didn’t finish
the race and compatriot Abel Kirui, the world champion, was
sixth.  Yesterday’s races had added significance as runners tried
to boost their national selection chances for the London
Olympics, starting July 27.  “It’s great for me to win the race for the second time,”
Keitany said. “I hope they will select me now for the
Olympics.”  Keitany had turned up the pace in the second half and went
clear of the field to finish in two hours, 18 minutes and 37
seconds, a Kenyan record.  Wheelchair Double  World champion Edna Kiplagat was second, more than a minute
behind, with Priscah Jeptoo third as Kenya filled the first
three places.  British duo David Weir and Shelly Woods won the wheelchair
races. It was a sixth victory for Weir in the London event.  Yesterday’s race took place in sunny conditions, amid
temperatures of around 12 degrees Celsius (54 Fahrenheit). It
was the 32nd running of the London Marathon, which started in
1981. As well as elite runners, this year’s event attracted
about 37,000 participants, many of them fun-runners taking part
to raise money for charitable causes.  The marathon route, starting in Blackheath, included the
National Maritime Museum and  Canary Wharf  as well as taking
runners past the Cutty Sark ship, now restored after a fire,
Tower Bridge, Big Ben and  Parliament Square .  Richard Branson ’s Virgin financial-services group is title
sponsor of the London Marathon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 