-- New York City Rent Limits Left Intact by Supreme Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-04-23T17:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/new-york-landlord-moves-to-upend-rent-control-at-court.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  rejected a
challenge to New York City’s decades-old rent-stabilization
system, leaving intact rules capping prices on almost a million
units in one of the country’s most expensive cities.  The justices today turned away an appeal by James and
Jeanne Harmon, who said the city was violating their
constitutional rights by limiting rents on three one-bedroom
apartments in their Upper West Side brownstone. The units rent
for about $1,000 a month, less than half the price of three
similar, unregulated units in the building, the Harmons say.  The couple targeted a 43-year-old state statute that has
become part of the city’s fabric, shaping its neighborhoods
along with the wallets and lifestyles of millions of city
residents.  “To the extent that the court is saying rent regulation
must stand, I think that’s good news for the state of  New
York ,” Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, said at a Manhattan
news conference today. “Rent regulations are very important to
the tenants of New York.”  James Harmon, 68, said in an e-mailed statement after the
court action that the U.S. Constitution “does not allow the
government to force us to take strangers into our home at our
expense for life.”  ‘Dickensian Conditions’  Rent-stabilized apartments have become the stuff of lore
and scandal in New York. Former Mayor Ed Koch lived in one for
years. So have celebrities including Cyndi Lauper and Carly Simon, according to the New York Times. U.S. Representative
Charles Rangel, a Democrat and the former chairman of the tax-
writing House Ways and Means Committee, was fined $23,000 last
month for using a rent-stabilized apartment in Harlem as a
campaign office.  Supporters say the rent-stabilization law protects tenants
from prices that otherwise would be out of reach for many  New
Yorkers .  The median  household income  for those in the 970,000 rent-
stabilized households last year was $37,000, according to the
city’s most recent housing and vacancy survey, released in
February. Four percent of households in rent-stabilized units
had incomes of $150,000 or more in 2010, according to the U.S.
Census Bureau.  “We would have Dickensian conditions,” said Allison
Tupper, 72, a retired school teacher. She pays $2,233 a month
for a four-room, first-floor apartment with access to a small
garden on West 46th Street in Manhattan, in the once rough-and-
tumble neighborhood known as Hell’s Kitchen that’s now rapidly
gentrifying. “People would be living in the streets.”  Median Rent  Tupper takes in a combined $3,700 a month from Social
Security and her teacher’s pension. She said one-room studios in
her seven-unit building can go for as much as $3,000 a month.  The median monthly rent for unregulated apartments citywide
was $1,369 in 2011; for rent-stabilized units it was $1,050, the
city survey showed. Yet in  Manhattan , average rents hit a record
$3,418 in March, Citi Habitats, a real estate brokerage, said in
an April 16 report.  New York’s history of rent regulation goes back to 1920,
when a post-World War I housing shortage prompted the state to
enact temporary rules, upheld two years later by the U.S.
Supreme Court. The federal government imposed emergency controls
during World War II as part of a nationwide push to prevent
rents from soaring in cities central to the war effort.  Rent Guidelines Board  The current system dates to 1969 when the state responded
to rising rents and falling vacancy rates by enacting the Rent
Stabilization Law, which now governs almost all the city’s rent-
limited apartments, including those of the Harmons.  Under the law, cities may limit rents if their vacancy rate
is less than 5 percent -- a test New York easily meets. Its
vacancy rate in 2011 was 3.12 percent, the city survey showed.  The system limits annual rent increases to a percentage set
by the Rent Guidelines Board -- 3.75 percent for a one-year
lease in the most recent adjustment. About 40,000 units are
still covered under the older rent-control regime, which ties
increases to a landlord’s operating costs.  The law gives tenants broad rights to remain in an
apartment or pass it on to a family member.  The Harmon family has owned the West 76th Street brownstone
since 1949, when James’s grandparents bought it with a $22,000
mortgage, according to court documents. James and his brother
inherited the building in 1994, and James bought out his
sibling’s interest in 2005 for $1.5 million.  ‘Taking’ of Property  The Harmons live on the first floor. The three upper floors
each have two units -- one rent-stabilized, one market-rate. The
tenants in the low-rent apartments have all lived there since at
least 1982. One owns a home in the Hamptons on  Long Island ,
purchased for $320,000 in 2001, according to the Harmons’ 2008
complaint.  The Harmons contend the rent-stabilization law is an
unconstitutional “taking” of private property without
compensation. They say previous Supreme Court decisions allow
rent-control laws only for emergency situations and that New
York’s decades-old system has effectively become permanent.  “This simple case challenges the power of the city and
state of New York to impose on the Harmons the unconstitutional
burden of involuntarily and permanently renting a part of their
residence to tenant-strangers,” the couple argued in their
appeal.  A New York-based federal appeals court threw out the Harmon
suit on a 3-0 vote, rejecting their contention that the law was
akin to a physical occupation of their property.  New York City  and state both asked the Supreme Court to
reject Harmon’s appeal without a hearing.  Previous Supreme Court decisions say that judges “should
not sit as super-legislatures reviewing matters of economic
policy, but should ask only whether a legislature’s policy
judgments are rational,” New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  argued in court papers.  The case is Harmon v. Kimmel, 11-496.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  