-- Obama and Romney Need to Ignite Swing Voters’ Passion
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-04-22T15:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/obama-and-romney-need-to-ignite-swing-voters-passion.html
This is expected to be a close  U.S.
presidential election  and there’s a general consensus in both
camps about who, to paraphrase former President George W. Bush,
the “deciders” will be.  The swing groups are constituencies that went for  Barack Obama  in 2008 and voted Republican in the 2010 congressional
elections, or voting blocs in which the premium is passion not
preference.  -- Married women with children. There is a gender gap, and
much of the focus now is on  Mitt Romney  and females. In 2008,
Obama carried the women’s vote by 13 points. A more closely
contested demographic, however, are married women with children,
who are less Democratic than most other women. They account for
about 15 percent of the electorate and went for Obama 51 percent
to 47 percent four years ago, but swung to Republicans in the
midterm elections.  “This is a group that Romney ought to carry,” says Whit Ayres, a Republican poll taker.  The issue of not getting the economy on track is of
particular importance to married women. Anecdotal evidence
suggests that some issues such as abortion and contraception
don’t resonate as much. One concern they do have is education;
this debate hasn’t yet begun in the campaign and is an area
where the Obama forces say they have the advantage.  -- Suburban independents: This group made up about 12
percent of the electorate in 2008 and went for Obama by 7
percentage points, about the same proportion as his overall
margin of victory. In the 2010 House races, Republicans carried
these suburbanites by almost 25 points, a huge turnaround.  These voters vary slightly from the general electorate in
several different ways: They are a little bit more male, more
middle-upper income, more college-educated, more likely to be
investors and slightly more middle-aged.  -- Catholics who aren’t regular churchgoers: Catholics, who
account for a little more than a quarter of the electorate, are
closely divided between those who regularly attend church and
those who don’t. The most observant tend to be the most
Republican and most responsive to their bishops’ criticisms of
the president.  “ John McCain  carried these active Catholics last time,
though not as much as  George W. Bush  did in 2004,” says Steven Wagner, who runs an opinion-research company and provided
counsel on the Catholic vote to  Karl Rove , Bush’s political
adviser. “If McCain had matched Bush with active Catholics, it
would have made a difference in several states.”  There’s a much smaller group of Latino and African-American
Catholics who are expected to vote decisively Democratic. The
swing group is comprised of white Catholics who aren’t regular
churchgoers and not as in tune with the religious leadership.
Their vote is likely to be affected by whether they are swayed
by the criticism that Obama’s health-care policies have
infringed upon religious liberties, as the bishops charge, or
whether they believe Republicans are trying to limit the use of
contraceptives (which most Catholics use).  In 2008, non-churchgoing Catholics went about 58 percent
to 40 percent for the Democratic nominee; about the same margin
voted Republican in the House races two years later.  -- Evangelicals: White evangelicals comprise about a
quarter of the electorate and overwhelmingly vote Republican.
The turnout and energy of this constituency this year are the
unresolved questions. For Republicans, the model is the 2004
Bush re-election campaign, which benefitted from a sizable
evangelical turnout.  Michael Lindsay , president of Gordon College, a Christian
school near  Boston , who has studied the evangelical vote,
believes this year’s Republican nominee can do better than
McCain -- who he says was “religiously unmusical.” His advice:
bring in to the inner circle a few strategists with credibility
in the evangelical community. One of the few current top Romney
advisers who meets that criteria is former Minnesota Governor
 Tim Pawlenty , though he isn’t a Romney intimate.  Gordon says the candidate must select a running mate who
energizes evangelicals. He also must “at some stage, give a
talk about relevance of his faith to his positions and
policies.”  Romney is working this territory hard; next month, he will
deliver the commencement address at Liberty University, the
fundamentalist school of the late televangelist  Jerry Falwell .  -- Latinos: This is the fastest-growing  voting bloc . Four
years ago, they probably comprised 8 percent to 9 percent of the
electorate and went for Obama by more than 2 to 1.  Romney is considerably less popular with Hispanics than
McCain was four years ago. The presumptive 2012 Republican
nominee adopted a hard line on immigration during the primaries,
suggesting his opponents, Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and former
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , were soft on the issue.  Romney and the  Republican National Committee  plan a Latino
outreach effort and the candidate is trying to recalibrate some
of his hard-line positions. Still, Republicans privately
acknowledge that this is an uphill slog as he has created enmity
in the Hispanic community. A  NBC/Wall Street Journal  poll last
week showed Obama winning this vote, 69 percent to 22 percent.  As with evangelicals, the question with this group is
intensity. Although the Hispanic voting-age population is more
than 10 percent larger than it was in 2008, registration was
down by more than 500,000 in 2010. Democrats argue that the high
stakes of the presidential election and the hostility to Romney
could produce a surge of Latino votes approximating the increase
in population.  Their impact is pervasive in states with heavy Hispanic
populations such as  New Mexico , Colorado and  Florida . In
 Virginia , Hispanics comprised an estimated 4 percent of the vote
in 2008. Yet, in what may be the most closely contested state in
the country, another percentage point, or 40,000 more Latino
voters might well enable Obama to keep Virginia in the blue
column.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  government’s case 
against book publishers and  Romney’s critique  of Obama’s
Afghanistan policy; William Cohan on more  missing MF Global
money ;  Noah Feldman  on  Egypt’s bungled elections ;  Pankaj Mishra 
on  Pakistan ’s  rising middle class ; Norm Matloff on the
 ascendancy of the English majors ; and Paul Fourier on  Europe ’s
 social safety net .  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 