-- Oil Trades Near Three-Day High on IMF Pledge; Iraq Halts Exports
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-04-23T06:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/oil-trades-near-three-day-high-in-new-york-before-economic-data.html
Oil traded near the highest level
in three days after  Iraq  halted some crude exports and
International Monetary Fund members pledged more than $430
billion to help protect the global economy.  Futures were little changed in New York after rising 0.2
percent last week. Iraq stopped shipments from its northern
fields because of a fault at a pipeline network in neighboring
Turkey, the Oil Ministry said. IMF members agreed to almost
double commitments to the fund at its spring meetings in
 Washington  yesterday. Manufacturing in China, the world’s
second-biggest oil consumer, may contract for a sixth month,
according to a survey released today.  “Globally, we’re walking the tightrope between falling off
into recession and launching into a sustainable boom, and the
current calm state of  oil prices  is reflecting that,” said
 Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia
Pacific Pty in Sydney. “We’re likely to ping-pong around until
we get some direction on global growth prospects.”  Crude for June delivery was at $103.82 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 6
cents, at 2:01 p.m. Singapore time. The contract climbed 1.1
percent to $103.88 on April 20, the highest close since April
17. Front-month prices have advanced 5.1 percent this year.  Brent oil for June settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange was at $118.69 a barrel, down 7 cents.
The European benchmark contract was at a  premium  of $14.87 to
 New York  futures, compared with $14.88 on April 20.  Goldman Sachs Trade  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. closed a recommendation to sell
New York crude futures for May and buy June contracts after the
trading strategy resulted in a loss of 17 cents a barrel. The
recommendation was first made Feb. 7 on speculation that oil
inventories in Cushing,  Oklahoma , would rise before the reversal
of the Seaway pipeline, which will transport crude to the U.S.
Gulf Coast.  While stockpiles did increase, a buildup of storage
capacity at Cushing probably kept the level of supplies from
creating greater pressure on the spread between the two
contracts,  David Greely , head of energy research at Goldman in
New York, said in the report e-mailed today.  Exports from Iraq’s northern fields stopped at 7:45 p.m.
local time on April 21, the ministry said in a statement on the
website of the official National Media Center. The country
normally exports 450,000 to 500,000 barrels a day through
 Turkey .  Iraq, IMF  Iraq, the third-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped an average of 2.81 million
barrels a day last month, according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. It ships most of its oil from the south on tankers
sailing from the  Persian Gulf .  The IMF agreed to pledge extra funding amid concern the
global economic recovery is slowing and after Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said she needed to ensure the body is able to
protect troubled countries. She fell short of her $600 billion
goal as the U.S. declined to chip in, while  Canada  proposed
making it harder for Europe to tap aid.  The preliminary reading of  China ’s purchasing managers’
index was 49.1 for April, compared with a final 48.3 for March,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. A number
below 50 signals contraction. The report adds pressure on
officials to adopt more policies to stimulate economic growth.  U.S. Demand  Oil may be supported by increased demand in the U.S., the
world’s biggest user of the commodity.  Consumer spending  gained
2.3 percent last quarter, according to the median estimate of 25
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before an April 27
Commerce Department report. That would be the largest increase
since the end of 2010.  U.S. gasoline demand climbed in March for a second month
even as total fuel usage declined, an American Petroleum
Institute report on April 20 showed. Deliveries of the motor
fuel, a measure of consumption, rose 3 percent to 9.01 million
barrels a day last month from March 2011 in the second year-on-
year demand gain since February 2011, the industry group said.  Total deliveries of petroleum products fell 1.3 percent to
19 million barrels a day in March, according to the API. The
peak U.S. demand period for gasoline starts with the Memorial
Day holiday in May and ends on Labor Day in early September.  “We’re entering the driving season so  consumer confidence 
will be a guide to what sort of consumption of petrol we’ll see
over the period,” said McCarthy at CMC Markets. “Any expansion
of activity will be seen as a positive and supportive of higher
oil prices.”  Pump Prices  The average price for regular gasoline at filling stations
dropped 5.44 cents to $3.9127 a gallon, according to Lundberg
Survey Inc. The survey covers the two-week period ended April 20
and is based on information received from about 2,500 stations
by the Camarillo, California-based company. The price is 3.27
cents higher than a year earlier, when the average was $3.88.  Money managers, including  hedge funds , commodity pools and
commodity trading advisers, increased bullish oil wagers by
7,477, or 3.9 percent, to 199,304 futures and options combined
in the seven days ended April 17, according to the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders
report on April 20. That’s the first gain in five weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at   manderson34@bloomberg.net  