-- Hong Kong Exchange’s Arculli Steps Down After Six Years
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   N i c k   G e n t l e
-- 2012-04-23T11:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/hong-kong-exchange-s-arculli-steps-down-after-six-years.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing
Ltd., surpassed by CME Group Inc. as the world’s biggest bourse
by market value, will fall behind others if it’s not vigilant,
said Ronald Arculli, who stepped down as chairman today.  “It doesn’t matter if it’s the Cambodian or the Laotian
exchange, somebody could overtake us,” Arculli said in an April
12 interview. “You’ve just got to be totally vigilant all the
time and not take life for granted. To be international, you’ve
got to work very hard at it, as you’ve got to work very hard at
being local as well.”  Board members, half appointed by the government and half
elected by shareholders, are scheduled to choose a replacement
for Arculli tomorrow after the 73-year-old led efforts to
attract international listings. Chow Chung-Kong, the former
chief executive officer of subway operator MTR Corp., is the
government’s pick, the  South China Morning Post  said April 11.  Competition for stock offerings among operators of equity
markets has increased globally amid declining profits on
trading. The Chinese city has accounted for 5.5 percent of
global initial public offerings this year compared with 13
percent in 2011 and 18 percent in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Competitive Scenario’  The rise of alternative trading venues at the expense of
traditional bourses such as the New York and London stock
exchanges is “a salutary reminder that we are in a very
competitive scenario,” said Arculli, who is also chairman of
the World Federation of Exchanges.  At $17.9 billion, Hong Kong Exchanges’ market value is
second in the Bloomberg World Exchanges index behind CME Group,
which is valued at $18.1 billion. The Chicago-based derivatives
venue became the biggest exchange company on March 19, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The former chairman of Hong Kong’s  Jockey Club  was behind
attracting companies from Prada SpA to L’Occitane International
SA and resource giants Vale SA and Glencore International Plc.
Since Arculli, whose family has been in Hong Kong for more than
a century, assumed his position in April 2006, the company has
more than doubled in value.  “The biggest contribution of Ron was that he brought the
international into the arena,” said Vincent Lee, chairman of
Tung Tai Securities Co. and a board member of Hong Kong
Exchanges since 2000. “This is really down to his efforts. By
bringing in all these big names, it really put us on a different
plateau.”  China IPO Pipeline  The exchange is seeking an acquisition loan to back a
possible bid for the London Metal Exchange, two people familiar
with the matter said on April 12. Arculli declined to comment
when asked if the bourse is bidding for overseas exchanges at
the annual general meeting today.  The overseas push has had its controversy. The January 2010
IPO of Russian aluminum producer United Co. Rusal attracted a
flood of criticism after regulators blocked the listing from
being marketed to retail investors, citing the riskiness of the
issue. The stock has since fallen 40 percent compared with a 4.4
percent advance by the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  The city’s securities regulator yesterday said it stripped
Mega Capital (Asia) Co. of its corporate finance license for
failing to highlight misleading information in the share sale
prospectus of Hontex International Holdings Co.  Arculli today said the exchange wants quality listings, and
is working with the regulator to ensure the best regulations.  Chairman’s Pay  Hong Kong’s $3.18 trillion market capitalization is more
than 14 times the former British colony’s annual gross domestic
product, according to calculations by Bloomberg. The next
highest ratio among the world’s five biggest equity markets is
the U.K., at 1.5 times. China’s is the lowest of the five, at
0.5 times the size of its economy.  Arculli was re-appointed this month as one of six directors
of the bourse that are chosen by the city’s government. Two were
re-elected today. Shareholders today also approved a plan to
raise the pay of the chairman to HK$900,000 a year from
HK$550,000, as well as raising the pay of directors and members
serving on committees.  Chief Executive Officer Charles Li, a former  China  chairman
of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and one-time editor at the state-
controlled China Daily newspaper, will run the meeting to elect
the board head tomorrow.  Li’s China Vision  With close connections to mainland China and experience as
an investment banker, Li, who worked on China’s first
international bond sale in 1994, has been an advocate for making
the Hong Kong bourse a testing ground yuan-denominated assets.
He has provided a counterpoint for Arculli’s ties to the local
government and efforts to promote the bourse company overseas.  “Charles Li has been in the  investment banking  for a quite
long time, he has a good relationship among the Chinese
enterprises, so this helped him get more China enterprises
listed in Hong Kong,” said  Steven Leung , director of
institutional sales at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd., a Singapore-based
brokerage. “Arculli’s not really in the industry but he has a
good relationship with the Hong Kong government, and has the
ability to manage a type of government-owned institution. He’s a
good person to play the management role.”  Arculli has been a non-official member of Hong Kong’s
Executive Council, which acts as the city’s cabinet, since 2005.  Mainland IPO Pipeline  Hong Kong is seeking listings from more overseas companies
as the pipeline of large IPOs from China slows. Companies from
the mainland accounted for  58 percent  of Hong Kong’s market
capitalization at the end of March, according to the exchange.  “If you look back to the early 1990s when the first
mainland company --  Tsingtao Brewery (168)  -- was listed in HK and
what has occurred from that time onwards, we have obviously been
quite fortunate,” Arculli said. “We can say with some pride
that in terms of a platform for capital formation, both mainland
enterprises and the Hong Kong exchange have done well for each
other.”  A lawyer by training, Arculli set up his own  law firm  in
2000 with a Sydney-based partner. He is currently a non-
executive director of at least eight listed companies including
Sino Land Co., Hang Lung Properties Ltd. and SCMP Group Ltd.  Born to a mainland Chinese mother and a father of Indian
descent, Arculli has been involved in many public service areas
as well, including the Health and Medical Development Advisory
Committee and the Hong Kong Award and  West Kowloon Cultural
District Authority .  “This exchange is not an easy exchange,” said Lee. “This
is an extremely difficult board and to be chair of this board is
no easy job. Ron does have a strong sense of determination. When
he wants something done, he gets it done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle in Hong Kong at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  