-- More Secret Service Employees May Leave, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-04-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/more-secret-service-employees-may-leave-lawmakers-say.html
U.S. lawmakers said they expect
more Secret Service employees to leave amid a widening
investigation of a prostitution scandal involving agents sent to
 Colombia  ahead of a visit by President  Barack Obama .  Representative  Peter King , a New York Republican who is
chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, and
Representative  Elijah Cummings  of Maryland, the top Democrat on
the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said they expect
the investigation to extend beyond the six Secret Service
employees who left.  “I would expect within a very near future to have several
other Secret Service agents leaving the agency,” King said on
NBC’s “Meet the Press” yesterday.  The Secret Service and Congress are investigating an
incident involving agents who allegedly consorted with
prostitutes at their hotel in Cartagena, Colombia, while
preparing security for Obama’s visit there. The incident raised
questions in Congress about whether it was a lone incident or a
glimpse of broader misconduct that might have put the
president’s security at risk.  Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma said he believes
the prostitution scandal is an isolated incident, not evidence
of agency-wide problems.  “What we’re seeing is an aberration,” Coburn said during
an appearance on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. “This is an
outlier for the Secret Service, and I think we’ll get to the
bottom of it.”  Dispute Over Fee  The misconduct was discovered after a prostitute refused to
leave a Secret Service agent’s hotel because of a dispute over
her fee. The woman, whose identity hasn’t been disclosed, told
the New York Times that the agent offered her $30, less than she
expected, after she spent the night with him.  Three Secret Service employees resigned April 20, bringing
to six the number the agency has said are leaving voluntarily or
being forced out, Paul S. Morrissey, a Secret Service assistant
director, said in an April 20 statement.  “I think we have some bad actors here,” Cummings said
during an appearance on CNN’s “State of the Union” program.
“I don’t think that we judge the Secret Service by its weakest
link.”  During television appearances yesterday, lawmakers from
both political parties expressed support for  Mark Sullivan ,
director of the Secret Service.  Regaining Confidence  Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California , the Republican
chairman of the House Oversight Committee, said he had “great
confidence” that Sullivan will prevent more such incidents.  “Obviously nobody believes that something with 11 or 12
people involved couldn’t have happened before,” Issa said on
NBC. “The real point is will we have confidence that it will
never happen again, particularly foreign nationals having access
to our men and women in the Secret Service. That’s the important
part that the director is working on.”  Obama has been briefed on the investigation, according to
an administration official who wasn’t authorized to speak about
a private meeting. The Defense Department is conducting a
separate probe involving its personnel.  Obama’s campaign strategist  David Axelrod  said the
president continues to have confidence in Sullivan.  “I must say in my experience the Secret Service has been
completely professional,” Axelrod said on  CNN . “I always felt
like they were willing to do anything to protect the president
and the people around the president, and so this was really
disappointing.”  White House Staff  Senator  Joseph Lieberman , an independent from Connecticut
and chairman of the Homeland Security and Government Affairs
Committee, said he plans to hold hearings into the matter. He
said he has no indication that anyone at the White House staff
engaged in inappropriate behavior in Colombia.  “Obviously, a Secret Service agent has a different range
of responsibility than somebody on the White House advance
team,” Lieberman said on CBS. “On the other hand, if we’re
worried about compromising through sexual favors, the security
of the president of the  United States , the White House advance
team, obviously, knows exactly where the president’s going to be
at every moment.”  Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, praised Paula
Reid, the head of the Secret Service detail in  Latin America , on
ABC’s “This Week” program. The Washington Post reported
yesterday that Reid ordered the agents and officers out of
Colombia after learning of the alleged misconduct.  “She acted decisively, appropriately, and I can’t help but
wonder if there’d been more women as part of that detail if this
ever would have happened,” Collins said.  The scandal may indicate a need for more women in the
Secret Service, said Representative  Carolyn Maloney , a Democrat
from  New York , on the same program. She said 11 percent of its
agents are women.  “I can’t help but keep asking this question, where are the
women?” Maloney said. “We probably need to diversify the
Secret Service and have more minorities and more women.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  