-- Moroccan Wine Thrives in Face of Religious Bans, Heat
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-04-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/moroccan-wine-thrives-in-face-of-religious-bans-heat.html
It’s easy enough to say “When in
Rome drink as the Romans do,” but what’s a wine lover to do in
Marrakesh?  For starters,  Morocco  is predominantly Muslim, and
consumption of alcohol is forbidden in Islam, (though oddly
enough, the word “alcohol” derives from the Arabic word 
“al-kohl”). Its production is allowed, and historically
overseen by Christians and Jews.  When Morocco became a protectorate of  France  in 1912, the
French found its fertile soil, especially in the Meknes region
of the Middle Atlas Mountains, an ideal spot in which to build a
formidable wine industry. By the time of Morocco’s independence
in 1956, 55,000 hectares (135,905 acres) were under cultivation.  With the departure of the French, Moroccan vineyards grew
fallow. In 1967, the European Economic Community (now the
European Union) froze most Moroccan wines out of its market. The
few remaining vineyards fell under strict government control.  Then, at the urging of King Hassan II and his successor
Mohammed VI in the 1990s, French wine companies returned to
lease vineyards and replant European varietals. By the beginning
of this century, cultivation had recovered to 50,000 hectares.  Thanks to the influx of tourism, the sale of alcohol and
wine is widespread in Morocco’s major cities, though in many
areas it is still forbidden, especially during Muslim holy days.  Moroccan Martini  So, on a recent trip to Morocco, I found little problem
ordering beer, wine, or even martinis at hotels and restaurants
I frequented, including those run by Muslims.  Frankly, I didn’t expect any of it to be all that good.
Still, my first few bottles of merely pleasant white wines were
much enhanced when paired with the gloriously fresh seafood on
offer at open-air French brasseries along Atlantic coastal
cities like Casablanca, Safi, and Essaouira.  But it wasn’t until I got inland to Marrakesh, where well-
spiced meat-based dishes like couscous and the slow-cooked
tagine stews demand to be consumed with a hearty red wine that I
began to be impressed. Especially after a memorable tasting with
Manuel Schott, the Alsatian-born sommelier at the magnificent  La
Mamounia  Hotel, which stocks more than two dozen Moroccan wines
among the 400 labels in its cellars.  “One of the problems in Morocco is that, after April, it
is so hot,” said Schott, “so that just shipping the wines can
compromise them. I ask for the wines to be delivered either in
early morning or after 7 p.m.”  Soaring Temperatures  It’s not just soaring temperatures that pose a challenge.
“In August and September the desert winds are so harsh that
they can destroy 30 to 40 percent of the harvest,” he said.  Most of the new wineries are French-owned, including El
Mogador, Morocco’s first  organic  producer in Provence Essaouira.
Its delicious El Mogador Gris, is made by a vigneron from the
 Rhone Valley  named Charles Melia.  Called “Gris” (gray, in French) because of its color that
falls between white and rose, it was very fresh and well made,
at 12.5 percent alcohol, with a lingering flavor and aroma of
raspberries.  Even more enticing was a blend of 80 percent chardonnay and
20 percent viognier, at 13 percent alcohol, called Odyssee La
Ferme Rouge. This was a very lush wine whose rich chardonnay
flavor took on the spicy scent of the viognier in impressive
balance.  Rich Chardonnay  S de Siroua by  Domaine des Ouled Thaleb  in the Rommani
district is 100 percent chardonnay, with a bold 14 percent
alcohol and a full body from aging in new barriques that give it
a vanilla caramel undertone.  Volubilia 2008 was 100 percent cabernet sauvignon, a
varietal that can take some heat, and it showed well at a
moderate 13.5 percent alcohol, with good tannins and acid. Its
relative lightness derived from its spending no time in oak
barrels.  Schott says that at least 60 percent of La Mamounia’s
guests order Moroccan wines, compared with a decade ago when few
did so. Wise investment in production and a more progressive
attitude toward alcohol have quickly improved the wines, which,
if difficult to find abroad, are well worth drinking when in
Marrakesh.  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 