-- Torres Suspended 25 Games for Hit as Coyotes Seek Playoff Win
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-22T05:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/torres-suspended-25-games-for-hit-as-coyotes-seek-playoff-win.html
Raffi Torres has been suspended for
25 games, weakening the  Phoenix Coyotes  as they seek one more
win over the  Chicago Blackhawks  for their first National Hockey
League playoff series victory in 25 years.  Torres, 30, slammed his left shoulder into Marian Hossa’s
head midway through the first period of the Coyotes’ 3-2
overtime victory against the Blackhawks in Game 3 on April 17.
Hossa sustained a concussion and was removed on a stretcher.  The hit violated interference, charging and illegal checks
to the head rules, said Brendan Shanahan, senior vice president
of player safety for the NHL. The disciplinary action took into
account Hossa’s injuries and Torres’s history as a repeat
offender in five previous infractions, he said.  “The ruling is very severe for Raffi and our hockey
club,” General Manager Don Maloney said yesterday in a
statement. “Raffi plays a hard, physical game yet this contact
crossed the line on what is acceptable in our game today.”  If Torres doesn’t complete the suspension by the conclusion
of the Coyotes’ playoff run, he will miss all preseason
practices and then finish the penalty during next year’s regular
season. Since he is a repeat offender, he will forfeit $21,341
in salary for every regular-season game he is deemed ineligible
to play.  Torres  “My main concern is for the healthy recovery of  Marian
Hossa , and I hope that he will be able to get back on the ice to
compete again soon,” Torres said in a statement issued today.
“I sincerely regret injuring Marian. Regarding the severity of
the suspension issued, I will take the next few days to decide
whether or not to appeal the decision.”  The Coyotes lost 2-1 in overtime to the Blackhawks last
night. They have a 3-2 advantage in the best-of-seven series as
they prepare for Game 6 tomorrow in  Chicago .  “We knew this decision was coming,” coach Dave Tippett
said on the league’s website. “It’s not like it snuck up on
us.”  The 33-year-old Hossa, who has a team-high 77 points this
season, hasn’t returned to the ice since sustaining the injury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  