-- Pakistan’s Unplanned Revolution Rewrites Its Future
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-04-22T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/pakistan-s-unplanned-revolution-rewrites-its-future.html
Returning last week from an
instructive three weeks in  Pakistan , I was detained briefly at
Islamabad’s chaotic airport after an X-ray machine showed two
highly suspicious music CDs and a USB memory stick in my check-
in bag.  The music was of  Mehdi Hassan , my favorite singer in South
 Asia , and the USB was part of a PR packet given to me by a
Bangkok hotelier. It didn’t matter. For nearly three hours, two
men in shalwar kameez -- members of one of Pakistan’s
intelligence agencies -- supervised customs and immigration
officials, and even the staff of my Middle Eastern airline,
through an extensive scrutiny of my bags and the many visas in
my passport.  These plainclothed, thuggish-looking men seemed to confirm
the popular Western stereotype of Pakistan’s “deep state,” a
vast subterranean network of soldiers, spies, and militants-for-
hire that actually runs the country while the state fails to
provide health care and education to a largely poor and
illiterate population of nearly 190 million.  An Invisible Tumult  I had last visited Pakistan in 2009, just as a  near-
hysterical Western media  was trumpeting that the Taliban was
only 60 miles from Islamabad. In the years since then, the
Taliban has plainly failed to overrun Pakistan. Still, Hafiz Muhammad Saeed, the founder of the banned terrorist group
Lashkar-e-Taiba, on whom the U.S. government recently placed a
bounty of $10 million, remains depressingly ubiquitous. His
defiant and widely reported speeches could seem further proof
of, if not rampant Talibanization, then the indispensability of
extremists to Pakistan’s ruling classes.  However, I also saw much in this recent visit that did not
conform to the main Western narrative for  South Asia  -- one in
which  India  is steadily rising and Pakistan rapidly collapsing.  Born of certain geopolitical needs and exigencies, this
vision was always most useful to those who have built up India
as an investment destination and a strategic counterweight to
 China , and who have sought to bribe and cajole Pakistan’s
military-intelligence establishment into the war on terrorism.  Seen through the narrow lens of the West’s security and
economic interests, the great internal contradictions and tumult
within these two large nation-states disappear. In the Western
view, the credit-fueled consumerism among the Indian middle
class appears a much bigger phenomenon than the extraordinary
Maoist uprising in Central India.  Likewise, a bloody anti-state insurgency has raged in
Pakistan’s resource-rich Balochistan province for much of the
previous decade; it has merited little attention since Western
military objectives have been more directly at stake in other
parts of Pakistan.  Traveling through Pakistan, I realized how much my own
knowledge of the country -- its problems as well as prospects --
was partial, defective or simply useless. Certainly, truisms
about the general state of crisis were not hard to corroborate.
Criminal gangs shot rocket-propelled grenades at each other and
the police in Karachi’s Lyari neighborhood. Shiite Hazaras were
being assassinated in Balochistan every day. Street riots broke
out in several places over severe power shortages -- indeed, the
one sound that seemed to unite the country was the groan of
diesel generators, helping the more affluent Pakistanis cope
with early summer heat.  Gangsters with Kalashnikovs  In this eternally air-conditioned Pakistan, meanwhile,
there exist fashion shows, rock bands, literary festivals,
internationally prominent writers, Oscar-winning filmmakers and
the bold anchors of a lively new electronic media. This is the
glamorously liberal country upheld by English-speaking
Pakistanis fretting about their national image in the West (some
of them might have been gratified by the runaway success of
Hello magazine’s first Pakistani edition last week).  But much less conspicuous and more significant, other signs
of a society in rapid socioeconomic and political transition
abounded. The elected parliament is about to complete its five-
year term -- a rare event in Pakistan -- and its amendments to
the constitution have taken away some if not all of the near-
despotic prerogatives of the president’s office.  Political parties are scrambling to take advantage of the
strengthening ethno-linguistic movements for provincial autonomy
in Punjab and Sindh provinces. Young men and women, poor as well
as upper middle class, have suddenly buoyed the anti-corruption
campaign led by  Imran Khan , an ex-cricketer turned politician.  After radically increasing the size of the consumerist
middle class to 30 million, Pakistan’s formal economy, which
grew only 2.4 percent in 2011, currently presents a dismal
picture. But the informal sector of the economy, which spreads
across rural and urban areas, is creating what the architect and
social scientist Arif Hasan  calls  Pakistan’s “unplanned
revolution.” Karachi, where a mall of Dubai-grossness recently
erupted near the city’s main beach, now boasts “a first world
economy and sociology, but with a third world wage and political
structure.”  Even in Lyari, Karachi’s diseased old heart, where young
gangsters with Kalashnikovs lurked in the alleys, billboards
vended quick proficiency in  information technology  and the
English language. Everywhere, in the Salt Range in northwestern
Punjab as well as the long corridor between Lahore and
Islamabad, were gated housing colonies, private colleges, fast-
food restaurants and other markers of Pakistan’s breakneck
suburbanization.  None of these developments conform to a clear pattern of
linear movement -- ascent to greatness or descent into chaos --
popularized by recent accounts of South Asia, which rest on
simple-minded notions about Europe and the U.S.’s deeply
traumatic experience of nation-building.  The unplanned revolution can come grievously unstuck if
Pakistan’s economy fails to generate enough jobs for the
country’s overwhelmingly youthful population. The few unbiased
commentators on Pakistan’s new television channels seem
outnumbered by the crazed zealots peddling visions of Hindu and
Jewish malevolence. A campaign against corruption in public life
may alert millions of young Pakistanis to the possibility of
participatory democracy; it may also turn them into foot
soldiers of an anti-political and authoritarian populism.  Clearly, Pakistan won’t easily escape the consequences of
the delusions and follies of its security establishment and its
foreign patrons. The suicide attacks that killed thousands of
Pakistanis in recent years have decreased. But the army, though
overstretched and exhausted by the war on terrorism and
increasingly challenged by politicians and the news media, still
seems far from giving up its proprietary rights over Pakistan’s
politics and economy.  Old habits will die hard -- as indicated by the
intelligence agents trying to decipher my notebook. But they may
grow obsolete and futile first: Mechanically sifting through my
faded credit card receipts and weeks-old laundry, the spooks
conveyed little conviction or even ordinary efficiency. When I
confronted one of them, demanding to know his name and
employers, he scurried away.  His “deep state” seemed a bit shallow then. In any case, as
 Indonesia ,  Turkey  and, most recently,  Egypt  and  Tunisia  have
proved, deep states, however cannily structured, can no longer
bottle up political pressures created by globalized economies,
modern communications and raised expectations.  Sustained by powerful Pakistanis, demagogues such as Hafiz
Saeed and many other plump-cheeked professional jihadis and
anti-Shiite bigots will continue to present a disagreeable face
of Pakistan to the world. But their frenetic attempts at
political alliance-building reveal that they, too, are
struggling to stay relevant in a rapidly changing society.  Foreign policy makers and commentators -- especially those
for whom the Taliban are forever 60 miles away from Islamabad --
would do well to recognize this ferment of Pakistan, even if
they can’t yet assess its scale and complexity.  ( Pankaj Mishra , whose new book, “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of Asia,” will be
published in August, is a Bloomberg View columnist, based in
 London  and Mashobra, India. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  government’s case 
against book publishers and  Romney’s critique  of Obama’s
Afghanistan policy; William Cohan on more  missing MF Global
money ;  Albert Hunt  on  key swing groups  in the general election;
 Noah Feldman  on  Egypt’s bungled elections ; Norm Matloff on the
 ascendancy of the English majors ; and Paul Fourier on  Europe ’s
 social safety net .  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 