-- Polls Show U.K. Conservatives Losing Support Following Budget
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-04-22T12:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/polls-show-u-k-conservatives-losing-support-following-budget.html
Polls continue to show  David Cameron ’s U.K. Conservative Party losing support following a
budget that critics say cut taxes on high earners while raising
them for pensioners and hot snacks.  A ComRes Ltd poll for the Independent on Sunday found 34
percent of people saying they’d vote Conservative, down 3
percentage points from the previous poll, conducted before the
March 21 budget. The opposition  Labour Party  was unchanged at 40
percent. Nick Clegg’s Liberal Democrats, the junior partner in
the collation government, was on 11 percent, up one point.  On the budget itself, 54 percent disagreed that it was
“generally fair”, against 27 percent who agreed. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  said yesterday the headlines on his
statement “haven’t been great.”  Justice Secretary Ken Clarke told  Sky News  the economy
faced “a difficult time” in 2012. “I’ve always taken a view
that it’s going to be quite a long process to get back to
normality,” he said. “There are a lot of things beyond our
control in the wider world that are likely to hit back on the
British economy. But I think compared with most of the other
Western democracies we are doing remarkably well.”  Labour leader Ed Miliband branded Osborne’s statement an
“omnishambles Budget” in Parliament last week, citing moves to
freeze tax allowances for the elderly, the “pastygate” plans
to put sales tax on more hot food including Cornish pasties and
moves to cap tax relief on large charitable donations.  ComRes interviewed 2,048 adults online on April 18 and 19.
No error margin was given.  A YouGov Plc poll of 1,714 adults April 19 and 20 put the
Conservatives on 33 percent and Labour on 41 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 