-- Qatar Investment Authority Has $30 Billion to Invest in 2012
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2012-04-22T13:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/qatar-investment-authority-has-30-billion-to-invest-in-2012-1-.html
Qatar Investment Authority, the
Gulf Arab country’s sovereign wealth fund, has $30 billion to
invest this year, board member Hussain Al Abdulla said.  “We don’t have any geographic allocation or asset
allocation or currency allocation,” he said at a conference in
the country’s capital, Doha. “We are very much opportunistic.”  Qatar, holder of the world’s third-largest natural gas
reserves, is seeking to diversify its economy by investing in
companies, industrial projects and real estate abroad. The Qatar
Investment Authority, or QIA, has “much more” than $100
billion of assets, Al Abdulla said today.  Qatar Holding LLC, the fund’s foreign investment arm, has
acquired a 3 percent stake in Total SA,  Europe ’s third-largest
oil company, Chief Executive Officer Ahmad Al-Sayad said today.
It’s also a shareholder in  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
London’s Harrods Ltd.  The fund is interested in investing in commodities, Al
Abdulla said today.  “Because of the financial crises, people are not investing
enough in commodities,” he said. “That might create a gap
between 2016 and 2017 and might push the price even higher.”  Qatar Holding has increased its stake in the mining group
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  to 6 percent, according to regulatory findings.
Qatar told Xstrata that it will back the mining company’s
planned merger with  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the Sunday Times
reported April 15, without saying where it got the information.  Al Abdulla and Al-Sayad declined to comment on the wealth
fund’s interest in Xstrata.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  