-- Romney’s Vague and Frustrating Views on Afghanistan
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-22T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/romney-s-vague-and-frustrating-views-on-afghanistan.html
Mitt Romney’s position on the war
in  Afghanistan  will be familiar to those who have followed him,
or tried to, on health-care reform.  In both cases -- two of the biggest domestic and foreign
policy issues of this year’s election campaign -- he criticizes
President  Barack Obama  for essentially having the same policy as
Romney himself.  In the case of health care, Romney, as governor of
 Massachusetts , led the way to enactment of a plan centered on
the notorious ( to Republicans , anyway) “individual mandate.” He
even offered to advise Obama on how a similar plan might be
implemented nationally. Romney now says the Obama plan,
individual mandate and all, is dreadful, and he promises to stop
the whole thing in its tracks his first day as president.  In the case of the war in Afghanistan, started by President
 George W. Bush  and pursued with determination by Obama, Romney
has not reversed his former views, possibly because he is new to
the foreign policy game and has no former views. His current
views, insofar as they can be divined, again  appear almost
identical  to Obama’s -- and where they’re not, are
contradictory.  Both men favor a deadline for withdrawal of American
troops. Both say that deadline should be the end of 2014. Both
acknowledge that some small number of troops will have to remain
indefinitely. Romney has also said, as Obama has not, that full
withdrawal should happen only when U.S. generals approve or “as
soon as that mission is complete.”  So is Romney in favor of full withdrawal by 2014 or is he
not? If anything is clear in Afghanistan, it is that the U.S.
mission will not be complete by the end of 2014. As president,
Romney would face the same dismaying choice that Obama faces: He
could pull out our troops and end the war by the deadline (or
earlier, as we  have advocated ). That could risk appearing -- and
not just appearing -- to slink away in humiliation. Or, he could
stay until “the mission is complete,” which could be many years
or even never.  What happens if, as has happened with every other Western
mission to civilize Afghanistan in recent centuries, we fail to
accomplish our mission in the time we have set for it? Romney
says that setting a deadline for withdrawal is a gift to our
enemies. They now know that they just have to hold out for a
couple more years in a war that has been going on since 2001. If
the Obama administration didn’t set a deadline, Republicans
would accuse them of failing to have an “exit strategy” in
Afghanistan.  Romney -- who, as we know from other issues, has the entire
spectrum of possible opinions available to him -- has not
clearly said where he stands. This is a policy question, not a
military one. “Leave it to the generals” is not an acceptable
answer in our democracy.  “We should not negotiate with the Taliban,”  Romney says .
“We should defeat the Taliban.” On this one aspect of the
perplexing Afghanistan war, there is a real disagreement,
because the Obama administration is in fact negotiating, albeit
episodically, with the Taliban.  This is pretty appalling, but so are all the other options.
Of course we should defeat the Taliban. We also should cure
world hunger. You don’t get credit for wishing. The U.S. has
spent nearly 11 years so far, not to mention hundreds of
billions of dollars and thousands of young lives, trying to
defeat the Taliban. How much American blood and treasure is
Romney prepared to spend?  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  government’s case 
against book publishers; William Cohan on more  missing MF Global
money ;  Albert Hunt  on  key swing groups  in the general election;
 Noah Feldman  on  Egypt’s bungled elections ;  Pankaj Mishra  on
 Pakistan ’s  rising middle class ; Norm Matloff on the  ascendancy
of the English majors ; and Paul Fourier on  Europe ’s  social
safety net .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 