-- Rubio, Daniels Leave Door Ajar on Joining Romney Ticket
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-04-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/rubio-daniels-leave-door-ajar-on-joining-romney-ticket.html
Florida Senator Marco Rubio and
Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels  brushed aside questions about
whether they would agree to be presumptive Republican
presidential nominee Mitt Romney’s running mate, though neither
shut the door on the possibility.  Daniels, 63, a two-term governor who last year took himself
out of the presidential race citing family concerns, told “Fox
News Sunday” he hasn’t discussed a vice presidential bid with
his wife and four daughters.  “I think this is a hypothetical question that will
probably stay that way,” said Daniels, who also served as
President George W. Bush’s director of the Office of Management
and Budget from 2001 through mid-2003. Daniels endorsed Romney
last week.  If asked by Romney to be his running mate, “I think I
would demand reconsideration, and send Mr. Romney a list of
people I think could suit better,” Daniels said.  Daniels declined to say who would be a good pick for
Romney.  “There is a lot of talent in the  Republican Party ,”
Daniels said. “A lot of new governors and young legislators
have joined our ranks.”  One of those young lawmakers is Rubio, 40, a Cuban-American
in his first U.S. Senate term after serving previously as
speaker of the Florida House of Representatives.  Rubio told Candy Crowley on CNN’s “State of the Union”
that he wouldn’t talk about the vice presidential selection any
more because Romney has started a process for sorting through
possible running mates.  ‘Going to Be Translated’  “It’s going to be translated that you’ve backed off saying
’I would not accept it,’” Crowley said.  “No, what I would characterize it as is, ‘I’m not going to
discuss it any more,’” Rubio said.  Rubio and Daniels made their comments two days after former
Florida Governor Jeb Bush, the brother of  George W. Bush  and son
of former president  George H.W. Bush , dismissed the idea of
serving as Romney’s running mate after earlier declining to rule
it out.  “I am not going to be the veep nominee,” Bush said in an
e-mailed statement on April 20. “Lay that to rest.”  Bush had told the Newsmax.TV website that while he doubted
that he would be asked to join the ticket, “I’d consider it”
if an invitation were extended.  Bush touted Rubio’s credentials in the Newsmax interview.  Speculation on a running mate for Romney has increased
since the former Massachusetts governor’s main remaining
challenger, former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , dropped
out of the presidential race April 10.  Romney’s campaign announced April 16 that longtime adviser
Beth Myers, his former gubernatorial chief of staff and 2008
campaign manager, would lead his search for a running mate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  