-- Rusal’s $43 Billion Seven-Year Glencore Deal Feeds Fued
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-04-23T08:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/rusal-s-43-billion-seven-year-glencore-deal-feeds-investor-feud.html
United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s
biggest aluminum supplier, is locked in to selling $43 billion
of the metal to  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  over seven years in a
contract that’s fueling a feud among billionaire investors, four
people familiar with the accord said.  Glencore agreed to the deal in the fourth quarter as
premiums paid by buyers reached near-record highs, according to
the people, who declined to be identified as the terms aren’t
public. Buyers in  Europe  paid an average $130 a metric ton more
than the  London  Metal Exchange price in the final three months
of 2011. Rusal will sell about 1.4 million tons this year as
part of the accord, the people said.  Investor Victor Vekselberg’s Sual Partners Ltd. is seeking
arbitration, saying the contract, which accounts for a third of
Rusal’s annual output, breached a shareholder agreement. The
deal turns the aluminum company into “Glencore’s production
unit,” Sual told Bloomberg News last week. The spat has stoked
a dispute over strategy, centered on owner Oleg Deripaska’s
refusal to give up nickel holdings to pay down debt, leading
Vekselberg to quit as chairman in March saying Rusal faced a
“deep crisis.”  Rusal will sell about 14.5 million tons to Glencore over
the duration of the agreement, which will protect the company
against future price declines, the people said. Glencore pays
the LME price plus a fixed premium, and can resell the metal or
stockpile it in anticipation of higher prices.  Higher Premium  Spokesmen for Glencore and Rusal declined to comment on the
details of the contract.  Rusal and Glencore, which holds about 8.75 percent of the
aluminum producer, struck the agreement when premiums were near
“multi-decade highs,” Jorge Vazquez, managing director of the
Harbor Aluminum Intelligence Unit, said by e-mail. Premiums are
currently about $140 a ton. That compares with $83 at the start
of 2010, according to a Rusal  presentation  in March.  The contract will give Rusal “stable” cash flow to
service its debt and finance working capital, said Kirill Chuyko, an analyst at UBS AG. Net debt totaled $11.05 billion as
of Dec. 31.  The accord also helps Glencore, the biggest publicly traded
commodities supplier, to increase its influence in the market,
 Vladimir Zhukov , HSBC Holdings Plc’s head of research in Moscow,
said by telephone.  “Glencore will increase its market power, which should
help to reduce price volatility and could be positive for the
market balance via inventory management,” Zhukov said.  Netherlands Warehouses  Glencore holds aluminum at warehouses in Vlissingen in the
Netherlands, which has the second-largest stockpiles globally
after  Detroit , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Glencore accounted for about 45 percent of Rusal’s aluminum
sales in 2010, the Russian company said in its annual report.
The Baar, Switzerland-based trader sold 3.9 million tons of
aluminum in 2010, 9 percent of total world production, Glencore
said in a prospectus for its 2011 initial public offering.  Rusal, based in Moscow, also awarded Glencore a contract to
sell its alumina through to 2019, raising the value of the
companies’ agreement to about $47 billion, the people said.  The accords prompted Vekselberg’s Sual Partners, a 15.8
percent stockholder in Rusal, to file for arbitration in London
on April 4. Vekselberg claims Deripaska’s En+ Group, Rusal’s
biggest holder, and Glencore breached a 2007 shareholder
agreement that stipulated that a veto from just one of the four
major holders should block any deal.  ‘Too Dependent’  The contracts make Rusal too dependent on Glencore,
“turning the company into Glencore’s production unit,” Sual
Partners’ press office said by e-mail. Rusal should have held a
competitive tender among international traders including
Trafigura Beheer BV,  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , it
said.  The seven-year contract also diverges from Rusal’s
marketing strategy, which as recently as last year targeted 80
percent of direct sales to clients by 2015, Sual Partners said.  The aluminum company had “informal discussions” with
other traders before choosing Glencore, three people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Rusal’s marketing strategy needs to be flexible to respond
to changing “market conditions,” said Vera Kurochkina, a
spokeswoman for the aluminum producer. Rusal’s direct sales to
aluminum customers remain at 60 percent, and the company will
seek to increase those volumes when the market strengthens, she
said in e-mailed comments today.  Vekselberg Resignation  Vekselberg quit in March saying Rusal’s refusal to sell its
shares in  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (MNOD) , Russia’s largest miner, was
hurting the company. The aluminum producer has been unable to
start any large investment projects after lenders imposed limits
on spending amid escalating debt.  Rusal’s 25 percent stake in Norilsk had a market value of
$7.4 billion at the end of last year, down from $11.2 billion,
it said last month. The revaluation led to a fourth-quarter loss
of $974 million, according to Rusal’s financial report.  The drop in value came after Deripaska blocked several bids
for the stake, saying it was a strategic long-term investment.
Among those offers was a $12.8 billion bid to buy back a 20
percent interest in February 2011, which was supported by
Vekselberg and fellow billionaire shareholder  Mikhail Prokhorov .
Rusal hasn’t paid dividends since 2008 when it bought the stake.  The company’s future investment and dividend strategy is
“locked” by its insistence on holding on to the Norilsk shares
amid “large” debts, UBS’s Chuyko said.  Diversifying Mining  The nickel holding allows Rusal to diversify its business,
just as other global mining companies have added other metals to
protect them in a volatile market, First Deputy Chief Executive
Officer Vladislav Soloviev said in an interview in Moscow.  While Rusal could sell the stake, pay down some of its debt
and seek alternative metals and mining assets, those would
“surely be of poorer quality and smaller,” he said.  Once two new aluminum smelters in eastern  Russia  come on
stream next year, Rusal doesn’t plan more “large” investments,
according to Deputy CEO Oleg Mukhamedshin.  “We are spending about $500 million to $600 million a year
on capital expenditure and don’t plan large investments in new
projects,” Mukhamedshin said in an interview. The new smelters
will reduce production costs because they’ll use cheaper energy
from hydropower stations, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 