-- Russia-IMF
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-04-22T04:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/russia-imf.html
Russia ’s budget deficit will
probably shrink in 2012 due to higher prices for oil, its major
export earner, and increased  tax revenue , Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said.  The ministry expects a budget deficit of 0.3 percent of
gross domestic product in 2012, compared with an initially
estimated 1.5 percent, Siluanov said at a press briefing
yesterday in  Washington , where he’s attending talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  and Group of 20 finance ministers’
meetings.  Excluding revenue from higher oil prices, the government
expects an additional 107 billion rubles ($3.6 billion) of
revenue in 2012, Siluanov said. Urals, Russia’s chief export oil
blend, has averaged $117 per barrel this year, against an
estimate average of $115 per barrel for all of 2012, he said.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who won his third term as
president on March 4, vowed to boost pensions and salaries for
state workers and the military. Russia posted $35.1 billion of
net capital outflows in the first quarter, the most since the
last three months of 2008, as the European debt crisis and anti-
government protests deterred investors.  “It’s important that we won’t spend a penny from the
additional oil revenue, all of that revenue will be used to
either replenish  Reserve Fund  or cut domestic borrowing,”
Siluanov said. “This is fundamentally important for securing
those positive macroeconomic trends that we have, first of all,
low inflation.”  Russia may still balance its budget in 2012, he said.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, benefits when
 oil prices  rise. The government expects to set its crude price
limit, above which it withdraws money into the Reserve Fund, at
$90 per barrel for 2016, he said.  “We are in favor of budget rules that would sharply cut
spending,” Siluanov said.  Gas Price Hikes  Russia plans annual increases in the domestic market price
of natural gas “to bring domestic gas prices in line with gas
prices abroad, excluding transportation cost and export fees,”
Siluanov said. The move will also boost tax revenue from the gas
industry, he said. The government will raise gas prices 15
percent on July 1, he said.  The government is in talks with OAO Gazprom, the world’s
biggest producer of natural gas, on a plan to shift 80 percent
of the additional revenue from higher gas prices into the budget,
Siluanov said. It aims to make a final decision on the plan in
the near future, he said.  Russia estimates the increase in domestic natural gas
prices will boost revenue by 50 billion rubles in 2013, 140
billion rubles in 2014 and 170 billion rubles in 2015, Siluanov
said.  IMF Funds  Siluanov said the country will consider committing more
than an initially pledged $10 billion for the IMF’s European
reserves, and will make a decision by the start of the G-20
summit in Los Cabos,  Mexico , later this year.  The IMF is seeking $430 billion in new funding from member
countries, of which $362 billion has been committed so far, he
said.  “Overall, the situation in the Eurozone has improved,”
Siluanov said. “However, the fundamental issues, such as debt,
have not been solved. It’s impossible to solve problems which
led to the crisis without solving the debt problem.”  Russia also seeks new rules on member-countries quotas at
the IMF, which would take into account the size of a country’s
economy and its gold and foreign currency reserves, Siluanov
said, adding that Russia expects the rules will be approved in
2012.  The IMF is pressing  Europe  to intensify efforts to quell
two years of turmoil that threatens to engulf  Spain . The IMF has
suggested the  European Central Bank  cut  interest rates  again, as
well as for governments to issue joint debt and a restructuring
of banks. European governments should consider using their
rescue funds to inject cash directly into Spanish banks, the IMF
has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  