-- Samaras Says He’ll Boost Growth, Cut Tax If Victorious in Greece
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-04-22T11:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/samaras-says-he-ll-boost-growth-cut-tax-if-victorious-in-greece.html
Greece ’s New Democracy party would
slash state spending, sell assets and lower taxes to boost an
economy stuck in a fifth year of recession if it got a clear
mandate to govern in the May 6 elections, leader Antonis Samaras
said.  “I need your vote to create political stability to send a
message of economic revival,” Samaras said in a speech in
Athens, televised live on state-run NET TV. “We ask for a clear
mandate and a strong majority to do what is needed for the
country.”  Samaras promised a flat 15 percent corporate tax rate,
lower sales taxes to boost growth and investment and an amnesty
for those bringing deposits back to Greece. He’d avoid the
across-the-board pension and wage cuts that have driven the
economy into the worst slump since the end of World War II and
said cutting waste would be the foundation of his fiscal policy.  Samaras’s election pitch comes as opinion polls show his
party is ahead, though still short of enough votes to win an
outright majority. Cooperation between  New Democracy  and  Pasok ,
Greece’s two largest political parties and current government
partners, might garner enough votes to cross the 151-seat
threshold needed to form a majority government, according to the
most recent polls.  Austerity Measures  At stake is whether a new government can implement
austerity measures on which bailout funds depend. Failure to
keep to those pledges, which underpinned a 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) second rescue package earlier this year, could
threaten Greece’s place in the euro area.  A new government must in June spell out to the European
Union and  International Monetary Fund  how it will find 11
billion euros of budget cuts for 2013 and 2014. Samaras said his
party had identified savings equal to 18.4 billion euros and
that he’d told international creditors there’s no room for new
taxes or wage and pension cuts.  “The only thing we have to do is cut state spending,” he
said. “I pledge to do everything so that spending cuts will
come from the wastefulness which is everywhere.”  Samaras said that would enable him to restore pension
levels for the lowest earners as well as for farmers. He said
restoring those pensions and incomes would cost no more than 550
million euros and be paid for by a tax on new electronic betting
games as well as spending cuts at state-owned transport
companies that generate deficits of more than 1.5 billion euros
a year.  ‘Completely Committed’  Samaras said his party was “completely committed” to the
goal of reducing the nation’s deficit and debt through state
asset sales. That’s as long as the economy returns to growth
soon, he said.  Even after a 100 billion-euro write off of Greek bonds this
year, the biggest restructuring in history, the country’s debt
is forecast at 163 percent of output in 2012, according to IMF
forecasts on March 16. The deficit will fall to 7.3 percent this
year from 9.3 percent in 2011, while the economy is set to
contract as much as 4.8 percent.  With unemployment nearing a record 22 percent, support for
the two biggest parties has dwindled. The growing popularity of
smaller anti-austerity parties is damaging the likelihood of
Samaras or Socialist Pasok, led by former finance minister
Evangelos Venizelos, from being able to push through reforms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in  Athens  at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net 
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Foxwell  at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  