-- Sarkozy, Hollande to Square Off as Le Pen Has Record Vote
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-04-23T07:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/sarkozy-hollande-progress-as-poll-shows-le-pen-wins-20-of-vote.html
Socialist Francois Hollande and
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  progressed to the final round of
France’s election, with the incumbent’s hopes of victory resting
on winning supporters from Marine Le Pen’s anti-euro National
Front.  Hollande took 28.6 percent of the vote against 27.1 percent
for Sarkozy, the  Interior Ministry  said in Paris. The anti-
immigrantLe Pen got 18.1 percent, a record for the party that
surpassed the predictions of all pollsters. The second round
takes place on May 6.  The presidential race was thrown open by Le Pen’s
performance, which highlighted voters’ angst in the face of
 unemployment  at a 12-year high, immigration and a worsening debt
crisis in the euro region. While Hollande’s first-round lead was
narrower than polls predicted, Sarkozy must now appeal to
National Front supporters without alienating more moderate
voters.  “He’s going to have to hunt right-wing voters,” said
 Antonio Barroso , a political analyst at Eurasia Group in  London .
“That’s a bad dynamic for the second round when you normally
want to capture the center and unite the country.”  Hollande would beat Sarkozy by 56 percent to 44 percent in
the final round, according to separate surveys conducted after
the results by the CSA polling company and  Harris Interactive .  French bonds and the euro declined today. The euro was down
0.4 percent to $1.3164 as of 9:03 a.m. in Paris, while French
10-year bond yields rose 5 basis points to 3.131.  Siamese Twins  Le Pen’s showing surpassed the 16.9 percent that propelled
her father into the second round in 2002 and came after a
campaign in which she slammed Sarkozy and Hollande as “Siamese
twins” who offered no solutions to France’s problems.  Her performance channeled voter concerns about foreign
workers taking French jobs, terrorism and the global financial
crisis, issues that Sarkozy tried to tap during the campaign.  The risk for investors is that he may now be tempted to
step up his criticism of the  European Central Bank  in a bid to
boost his pro-growth credentials, said  Holger Schmieding , chief
economist at Berenberg Bank in London.  “The first round may offer a glimmer of hope for
Sarkozy,” he said. “But it also entails a risk that he could
pander to right-wing sentiment on European issues in the next
two weeks. Stronger calls for a ‘growth mandate for the ECB’ and
the like may not go down well in Berlin and  Frankfurt .”  ‘Elements of Fear’  Hollande, 57, started drawing the battle lines for the
second round, highlighting Sarkozy’s appeal to anti-immigrant
sentiment.  “I have no doubt he will use all the elements of fear,”
he told reporters at Brive-La-Gaillarde, central  France , before
flying to Paris. “I am stronger because I came first.”  Sarkozy, the first incumbent since 1958 not to win the
first round, said the results represent a “vote of crisis.”  The French are “suffering faced with the new world that is
taking shape,” he told supporters in Paris. “These worries, I
know and understand. They rest on the respect of our borders,
the fight against off-shoring and the crisis of immigration, the
recognition of work and security.”  Sarkozy won’t tailor his policies for the second round,
said campaign spokeswoman Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet. “He has a
project for France, the project won’t change, and now he has a
real chance to present it to the French,” she said today on
France2. “The first round was nine against one.”  Len Pen Support  About 57 percent of Le Pen voters will back Sarkozy in the
second round, while 23 percent will abstain and 20 percent will
back Hollande, according to a survey by the BVA polling company.  In yesterday’s vote, Communist Party-backed Jean-Luc Melenchon got 11.1 percent and self-styled centrist  Francois Bayrou  won 9.1 percent. Melenchon supporters will vote
overwhelmingly for Hollande in the second round, while Bayrou’s
backing is split into thirds between Hollande, Sarkozy and
abstention, polls show.  CSA estimated turnout at 79 percent, below 2007’s first-
round level of 84 percent.  Sarkozy’s term has been dominated by a financial crisis
which started just months after he took office in May 2007 and
is still ricocheting through  Europe ’s bond markets.  Sarkozy, 57, argues that he protected France during the
financial crisis by saving its banks and is pushing to expand
the ECB’s mandate to include spurring economic growth rather
than just fighting inflation.  Economic Record  Hollande has pounced on his economic record, pointing to an
 unemployment rate  that has now risen to 9.8 percent. France’s
economy has also been hurt by Europe’s debt crisis, which
contributed to France losing its AAA  credit rating  for the first
time in January.  Sarkozy said last night that he wants three debates before
the second round, focusing on economic, social and foreign
policy issues. Hollande said he’ll agree to only one debate, the
same as in 2007.  Kosciusko-Morizet said that Hollande is afraid of
confronting Sarkozy.  “Politics is not boxing,” Michel Sapin, a Hollande
campaign aide who has been mentioned as a possible finance
minister in a Socialist government, said in an interview with
France Info radio today. “Sarkozy just wants constant
confrontation.”  Left’s Strength  While Sarkozy must try to reach out to National Front
voters, Hollande must also overcome the relatively poor
performance of Melenchon, a potential ally, if he’s to become
the first Socialist to win the presidency since  Francois Mitterrand  in 1988.  “The combined score of the left is not as strong as
expected,” said Vincent Tiberj of the European Research Center
at Science Po. in Paris. “ Francois Hollande  had a good first
round but he has fewer reserves than expected. The second round
will be a tighter race than expected.”  Hollande starts the campaign for the second round with a
committed core equal to about 43 percent of the electorate,
Sapin said. “The battle is not won,” he said. “He has to
speak to all the French.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net 
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net 
John Fraher in Paris at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  