-- Vettel Wins Bahrain Grand Prix as Race Goes Ahead After Protests
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-04-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/sebastian-vettel-wins-bahrain-grand-prix-raikkonen-second.html
Two-time defending world champion
Sebastian Vettel of  Red Bull  won yesterday’s Bahrain Grand Prix
to move atop the Formula One drivers’ standings, after a race
overshadowed by protests calling for it to be canceled.  Vettel’s winning margin following 57 laps of the Bahrain
International Circuit was 3.33 seconds after he started in pole
position. Lotus duo  Kimi Raikkonen  and Romain Grosjean were
second and third.  It was Vettel’s first win this season and the 22nd of the
24-year-old German’s career. Four different drivers and teams
have taken this season’s races, after wins for  Jenson Button 
(McLaren),  Fernando Alonso  (Ferrari) and  Nico Rosberg 
(Mercedes).  “It was an incredible race, extremely tough. We had a very
good start, which was crucial,” Vettel said at the post-race
news conference. “I was able to pull away immediately and pull
away from the pack, which turned out to be a big advantage.”  In recent weeks there had been doubts over whether the race
would go ahead because of clashes between police and anti-
government protesters in the Gulf state. Tension had increased
in the run-up to the Grand Prix, the biggest international event
in the island kingdom. Last year’s race in Bahrain was canceled
due to clashes.  Vettel’s teammate  Mark Webber  was fourth yesterday,
followed by Rosberg, Paul di Resta (Force  India ), Alonso and
McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton . Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa  picked up his
first points of the season in ninth, and 10th-place  Michael Schumacher  was in the last scoring position.  Vettel leads the standings on 53, with Hamilton on 49,
Webber 48 and Button and Alonso on 43. Red Bull leads the
constructors’ event on 101, with McLaren on 92 and Lotus 57.  Took Command  Vettel took command from the start, taking a 2.2-second
lead over Hamilton after the first lap, with Webber third.  Hamilton, starting second on the grid, was then hit by two
slow pit stops and dropped to 11th.  Vettel maintained the lead from Grosjean after going into
the pits, only to then come under pressure from Raikkonen. He
just managed to hold off an overtaking maneuver from the Finn on
the 36th lap.  A third pit stop by Vettel and Raikkonen left Grosjean in
the lead briefly before he also pitted to leave the German and
the Finn renewing their duel.  Vettel stepped up the pace to take a 3.4-second advantage
over 2007 world champion Raikkonen. The Lotus driver, returning
to Formula One this season after a two-year absence, narrowed
the gap to 2.4 seconds but was unable to overhaul his rival.  ‘Thank You’  “A tremendous thank you to the boys who have done a great
job to get the car to my liking,” Vettel said of his team. “It
all came together for the first time this weekend. All in all
I’m extremely happy.”  Raikkonen paid tribute to his own team performance.  “We’ve both gained podiums and the team deserve what we
achieved,” he said. “It’s a positive result for the team and
an important step.”  Button retired a lap from the end to complete a
disappointing day for McLaren. Hamilton, the 2008 series
champion, said the team must improve its pit stops.  “We need to look into this very seriously,” he said.
“There has to be an investigation because we gave away a lot of
points again today. That’s how championships are lost.”  Bahrain’s political opposition had burned tires in Shiite
villages yesterday, hours ahead of the Grand Prix. A government
helicopter circled the capital Manama and several villages in
the early morning. The mostly Shiite opposition had stepped up
its anti-regime protests, calling for the race to be canceled
until reforms are introduced. Formula One chiefs resisted the
calls.  The next race, the fifth in the 20-event season, is the
 Spanish Grand Prix  in Barcelona on May 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  