-- Sexual Harassment Claims Denied by Australian Parliament Speaker
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-04-22T02:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/sexual-harassment-claims-denied-by-australian-parliament-speaker.html
Australia ’s parliamentary speaker,
 Peter Slipper , denied allegations in a national newspaper that
he sexually harassed a male adviser and misused taxpayer-funded
taxi vouchers.  The  Daily Telegraph  reported yesterday that a 33-year-old
assistant filed a claim in the Federal Court accusing Slipper,
62, of “unwelcome sexual advances” and “unwelcome sexual
comments.” According to the lawsuit, the speaker also handed
signed, blank travel vouchers to a Sydney limousine driver this
year, the  Daily Telegraph  said. Australian police said they will
probe the allegations of expenses fraud.  “All allegations are denied,” Slipper told reporters as
he passed through an airport, in footage broadcast by  Sky News 
today. Slipper didn’t reply to an e-mail or a voice mail left at
his electoral office in Buddina, Queensland, seeking comment.  Slipper’s ability to remain in office may be key to helping
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor government retain control
of parliament. Since Slipper left the opposition Liberal-
National coalition to become speaker last November, Gillard’s
majority has been trimmed to one seat.  Labor’s numerical advantage in the 150-member  House of
Representatives  would evaporate if a party lawmaker replaced
Slipper as speaker. Even if he stays, the government risks being
tarnished, said John Uhr, director of the Centre for the Study
of Australian Politics at the  Australian National University .  ‘Not Good’  “It’s not a good look,” said Canberra-based Uhr, who
specializes in government ethics. The government “will try and
look the other way and hope they can still be in office at the
time of the next election. It’s not going to be easy.”  Support for Gillard’s  Labor Party  hovered near a record low
in an opinion survey published last week before an election
required by the end of 2013. Labor’s support of 29 percent
trails  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal National coalition by 19 percentage
points, according to a Newspoll published in the  Australian
newspaper  on April 17.  Abbott yesterday called on Slipper, who in his  role 
enforces rules and ensures lawmakers follow procedures, to step
down while an investigation takes place.  “Yes, the speaker is entitled to the presumption of
innocence but he does have quite a lot of explaining to do,”
Abbott told reporters yesterday in Queensland, according to a
transcript sent by his office. “The prime minister, to uphold
the integrity of the parliament, needs now to require the
speaker to step down until these matters are resolved.”  ‘Legal Proceedings’  Government ministers have declined to comment on the
allegations. Deputy Prime Minister and Treasurer  Wayne Swan ,
speaking on the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s “Insiders”
program today, said “we should respect those legal
proceedings.” Politicians shouldn’t comment on legal matters,
Infrastructure and Transport Minister Anthony Albanese said
yesterday. That’s also the government’s position on the matter,
said a spokeswoman for Gillard, who flies to  Singapore  later
today.  According to the claim filed in court on April 20, Slipper
used a limousine for travel in Sydney in January and February
and on three occasions passed several signed dockets to the
driver, without detailing the cost of the trip, the Daily
Telegraph reported.  “The Australian Federal Police is aware of the new
allegations of fraud and will be taking action to assess this
information,” a spokeswoman for the AFP said by phone today.  Gillard formed a government in 2010 after the nation’s
closest election in seven decades ended Labor’s majority. In
November 2011, she gained a two-seat majority after then-speaker
 Harry Jenkins , a Labor lawmaker, quit and was replaced by
Slipper.  Gillard’s majority was cut to one in January when
independent lawmaker  Andrew Wilkie  pulled his support, saying
Gillard had broken a promise to tighten gambling laws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  