-- Social Model Is Europe’s Solution, Not Its Problem
-- B y   P a u l   F o u r i e r
-- 2012-04-22T22:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/social-model-is-europe-s-solution-not-its-problem.html
In the wake of the financial
crisis,  Europe ’s leaders are calling the continent’s social
model into question -- it is “done,” according to European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi . That’s a travesty.  The crisis is, above all, financial. Yet governments aren’t
addressing the malfunctions that caused this problem. Instead,
they are forcing ordinary people to pay and attacking the social
systems that support them.  Take the example of Greece. The country is being pushed to
accept an  austerity plan  of unprecedented severity, predicated
on reducing public spending and slashing salaries, pensions and
social systems in the most brutal way. This has forced the
country into an economic, social and political crisis that will
last for many years.  These policies are initiated not by Greeks but by European
Union officials in Brussels, at the  European Central Bank  in
 Frankfurt , or in  London , where the U.K. government continues to
block proposed measures to fund a recovery, such as a Europe-
wide tax on financial transactions. These ideas are modeled on
the austerity plans that were imposed on the countries of  Latin
America  in the 1970s and ’80s, and they are suicidal.  Labor unions in the  European Trade Union Confederation  take
the opposite view of these choices. Union leaders believe
austerity is pushing Europe -- and many industrialized countries
outside the region -- into a recession, unemployment and
poverty. Democracy, both political and social, has to be
restored.  To start with, it is time to rethink the EU, which has
become nothing more than a large market, without any
consideration of social or fiscal harmonization. The result has
been to set Europe’s citizens in competition with each other, as
can be seen in the debate about how  Germany  has grown at the
expense of its partners.  Wealth that is generated by the creation of a continent-
wide market should benefit the citizens of the EU together. It
should, above all, raise standards of living. But the effect has
been the opposite. As governments  compete  to attract companies
by offering lower corporate tax rates and social contributions,
the result has been to impoverish social systems and public
finances, and therefore workers and pensioners.  Favor Income  Priority has to be given to growth and employment, rather
than pleasing the markets. We need new economic, social and
monetary policies. We need to move toward a new distribution of
wealth that favors income derived from labor over capital; wages
and productive investments over financial investments and
dividends.  Far from reducing the purchasing power of workers and
retirees by undermining the pension and social-welfare systems,
we need to boost these as a way of supporting internal growth
that is much less dependent on external markets. We need
proactive employment policies that promote public-works
projects, and laws that discourage companies from cutting staff
levels when profits are high. All this is especially important
for the young. Unemployment for the under 25s is now 23 percent
in France, more than 30 percent in Greece and 50 percent in
 Spain .  The argument so often put forward to justify reductions in
labor costs -- keeping companies competitive -- doesn’t stand up
to scrutiny. What handicaps European businesses today is the
lack of quality and innovation. To try to compete with Chinese
businesses by lowering labor costs is a decoy. It does nothing
but benefit short-term corporate profits, to the detriment of
employees.  More of the wealth that companies produce should be used to
increase salaries (together with social-security payments), and
to pay for training as well as research and development. Doing
so would help companies to innovate and strengthen their
position in the market.  Above all, we need to maintain employment in the public
services, the quality of which benefits companies as well as
individuals. Cutting public spending can only be done to the
detriment of the very things that underpin the growth of large
industrialized economies: excellence in education, an effective
health system and quality public services. To undermine these
strengths is to misunderstand the challenges that we face today.  Mercy of Markets  Social-protection systems based on solidarity between the
generations, between men and women, rich and poor, have to
endure in their current form. To attack them is to cast onto the
mercy of the marketplace our ability to maintain our health, to
safeguard our pensions and to raise our children in good
conditions. Invariably, this produces two-speed protections and
weakens the poorest.  Social democracy has to find, or to rediscover, its place.
It’s imperative that we encourage social dialogue and collective
bargaining. In  Greece  today, as in other troubled economies,
labor unions and social dialogue are held in contempt, creating
a source of deep instability for the future.  International and European standards on employee rights,
such as those set out in the International Labor Organization
 conventions  or in Europe’s  Charter of Fundamental Rights , are
too often flouted and need to be applied. The social dumping
that began in recent years, especially as a result of judgments
handed down by the  European Court  of Justice, need to be
reversed by political decisions. The EU, no matter what economic
liberals say, cannot be built on social dumping and competition
between the peoples of a single economic space.  Leaders on Europe’s political right are refusing to
question the economic model they have been supporting for
decades. The financial crisis has shown that this model, based
on deregulation, privatization and reduction of the state’s
role, is exhausted, if not bankrupt. Either by error or
ideological stubbornness, Europe’s current leaders are imposing
the heaviest burden of reform on those who are least protected.  If Europe’s governments continue on this path, they risk
tipping their countries into new crises and reinforcing the
nationalism and xenophobia that’s already becoming all too
evident.  (Paul Fourier is a member of the executive board of the
Confederation Generale du Travail, one of  France ’s largest
labor-union groups. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today's highlights: the View editors on the  government's case  
against book publishers and  Romney's critique  of Obama's Afghanistan 
policy; William Cohan on more  missing MF Global money ;  Albert Hunt  
on  key swing groups  in the general election;  Pankaj Mishra  on  Pakistan 's
 rising middle class ; Norm Matloff on the ascendancy of the English 
majors; and Paul Fourier on Europe's  social safety net .  To contact the writer of this article:
Paul Fourier at  p.fourier@me.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 