-- Software Engineers Will Work One Day for English Majors
-- B y   N o r m a n   M a t l o f f
-- 2012-04-22T22:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/software-engineers-will-work-one-day-for-english-majors.html
Which of the following describes
careers in  software engineering ?  A. Intellectually stimulating and gratifying.  B. Excellent pay for new bachelor’s degree grads.  C. A career dead-end.  The correct answer (with a “your mileage may vary”
disclaimer) is: D. All of the above.  Although the very term “coding” evokes an image of
tedium, it is an intellectually challenging activity, creative
and even artistic. If you like puzzles and are good
analytically, software development may be your cup of tea. You
not only get to solve puzzles for a living, but in essence you
compose them.  Wages for new computer-science graduates working as
software engineers are at, or near, the top of most surveys,
certainly compared with new humanities grads. We hear about
the gap a lot this time of year, as students compare job
offers.  You had better be good to get that first job in computer
engineering, because you will probably be asked to  code on
command  during job interviews; employers have been burned too
often by those with high grades yet low ability. But those who
are chosen are generally paid well and love the work.  The downside? Well, say you interview as a graduating
college senior at  Facebook Inc. (FB)  You may find, to your initial
delight, that the place looks just like a fun-loving dorm --
and the adults seem to be missing. But that is a sign of how
the profession has devolved in recent years to one lacking in
longevity. Many programmers find that their employability
starts to decline at about age 35.  Gone by 40  Employers dismiss them as either lacking in up-to-date
technical skills -- such as the latest programming-language
fad -- or “not suitable for entry level.” In other words,
either underqualified or overqualified. That doesn’t leave
much, does it? Statistics show that most software developers
are out of the field by age 40.  Employers have admitted this in unguarded moments.  Craig Barrett , a former chief executive officer of  Intel Corp .,
famously remarked that “the half-life of an engineer, software
or hardware, is only a few years,” while  Mark Zuckerberg  of
Facebook has blurted out that young programmers are superior.  Vivek Wadhwa , a former technology executive and now a
business writer and Duke University researcher,  wrote  that in
2008 David Vaskevitch, then the chief technology officer at
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , “acknowledged that the vast majority of new
Microsoft employees are young, but said that this is so
because older workers tend to go into more senior jobs and
there are fewer of those positions to begin with.”  More than a decade ago, Congress commissioned a  National
Research Council study  of the age issue in the profession.
The council found that it took 23.4 percent longer for the
over-40 workers to find work after losing their jobs, and that
they had to take an average pay cut of 13.7 percent on the new
job.  Why do the employers prefer to hire the new or recent
grads? Is it really because only they have the latest skill
sets? That argument doesn’t jibe with the fact that young ones
learned those modern skills from old guys like me. Instead,
the problem is that the 35-year-old programmer has simply
priced herself out of the market. As Wadhwa notes, even if the
45-year-old programmer making $120,000 has the right skills,
“companies would rather hire the younger workers.”  Whether the employers’ policy is proper or not, this is
the problem facing workers in the software profession. And
it’s worsened by the  H-1B  work-visa program. Government data
show that H-1B software engineers tend to be much younger than
their American counterparts. Basically, when the employers run
out of young Americans to hire, they turn to the young H-1Bs,
bypassing the older Americans.  Fewer Managerial Jobs  With talent, street smarts and keen networking skills,
you might still get good work in your 50s. Moving up to
management is also a possibility, but as Microsoft’s
Vaskevitch pointed out, these jobs are limited in number.
Qualifications include being “verbally aggressive,” as one
manager put it to me, and often a willingness to make late-
night calls to those programmers in  India  you have offshored
the work to.  Finally, those high programmer salaries are actually low,
because the same talents (analytical and problem-solving
ability, attention to detail) command much more money in other
fields, such as law and finance. A large technology company
might typically pay  new law-school graduates  and  MBAs  salaries
and compensation approaching double what they give new
master’s degree  grads in computer science .  If you choose a software-engineering career, just keep in
mind that you could end up working for one of those lowly
humanities majors someday.  (Norman Matloff is a professor of computer science at the
 University of California , Davis. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  government’s case 
against book publishers and  Romney’s critique  of Obama’s
Afghanistan policy; William Cohan on more  missing MF Global
money ;  Albert Hunt  on  key swing groups  in the general
election;  Noah Feldman  on  Egypt’s bungled elections ;  Pankaj
Mishra  on  Pakistan ’s  rising middle class ; and Paul Fourier on
 Europe ’s  social safety net .  To contact the writer of this article:
Norman Matloff at  matloff@cs.ucdavis.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 