-- Tsunami Scare Shows Gaps as Thousands Miss Quake Warnings
-- B y   F e m i   A d i
-- 2012-04-23T07:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/tsunami-scare-shows-gaps-as-thousands-miss-quake-warnings.html
Khairil Razali thought a tire had
blown out as his white Mitsubishi Strada pickup shuddered on the
road as he drove to Banda Aceh on the northern tip of
 Indonesia ’s Sumatra.  As he pulled over, the 34-year-old manager at the
 Indonesian Red Cross  saw hordes of people racing out of houses
and realized what was happening: an earthquake.  The 8.6-magnitude temblor and aftershocks in the Indian
Ocean on April 11 and ensuing tsunami warnings brought back
memories of the waves that ravaged the 12 countries and killed
220,000 people in 2004. While tsunami detection systems appear
to have worked, the quake exposed flaws in the diffusion of
warnings and effectiveness of evacuation plans, said officials
including Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, head of Indonesia’s  national
disaster management agency ’s data and information center.  “I saw people jump out from the second floor of their
houses and rappelling down using ropes in panic,” Razali said
in a phone interview. “Yells of ‘God is great’ were endless as
they spilled into the streets, bringing back the 2004 trauma.”  Unlike the 2004 quake, the recent temblor didn’t create a
lethal tsunami. Ten people died, including seven who had heart
attacks, and 12 were injured, Nugroho said. The most severe
structural damages were to a bridge, a prison and a dormitory
school, he said.  Master Plan  Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has ordered
that a master plan be drawn up to rectify flaws and ensure lives
are protected, pledging to fund the infrastructure needed to
improve readiness. The country may spend 3 trillion rupiah ($327
million) to 5 trillion rupiah to add more shelters and tsunami
detection devices in 2013 and 2014, Nugroho said.  Tsunami warnings by national authorities and the Pacific
Tsunami Warning Center came minutes after the initial quake.  Preliminary information was sent within 10 minutes via
short  text messages  to the disaster management agencies and
media in  Malaysia , advising the public to stay away from the
beaches in the states of Perlis, Kedah, Penang and Perak, Yap
Kok Seng, a director-general of Malaysia’s Meteorological
Department, said in an e-mailed statement on April 16.  “We received the information from all international
agencies such as in the U.S. and  Japan  immediately after the
earthquake occurred,” Somsak Kaosuwan, director of Thailand’s
National Disaster Warning Center, said in a phone interview the
day after the quake.  Technology Reliance  Methods of spreading the warnings to people on the ground,
including mass e-mails, short text messages to mobile phones,
faxes and website postings, worked to varying degrees as
telecommunications networks were overloaded, according to phone
companies and government officials. The Jakarta-based  Indonesian
Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics Agency  also used its
 Twitter  account to alert its 275,000 followers.  A surge in people seeking information online brought down
official websites in Indonesia,  Thailand  and Malaysia.  “An overwhelming number of people tried to access our
website to check for information, causing the website to crash
for some time,” Thailand’s Kaosuwan said. “We will increase
the capacity.”  The Indonesian meteorology agency plans to distribute quake
information through other governmental websites after 400,000
visitors tried to access its website at the same time, shutting
it down for hours, Prih Harjadi, the agency’s deputy of
geophysics, said in a phone interview from Jakarta.  Silent Sirens  The Malaysian meteorological agency, which also experienced
website issues, is working on ways to ensure “system
availability during such episodes where network access traffic
would increase drastically,” Yap said.  Wireless networks were clogged by the surge in calls,
delaying or stopping short text messages, known as SMSs, from
reaching people, according to Djarot Handoko, a spokesman for  PT
Indosat (ISAT) , Indonesia’s second-largest mobile-phone company. Mobile
traffic surged 75 percent after the earthquake, he said.  Some physical warning systems put in place after 2004,
including sirens, failed to work properly. The only siren that
blared in Banda Aceh had to be turned on manually after power
was cut, Harjadi said.  Indonesia, with the world’s fourth-largest population,
installed 34 early warning sirens across the nation, spanning
5,150 kilometers (3,200 miles), the distance from  Florida  to
 Alaska . Indonesia plans to have 1,000 sirens, Nugroho said. Of
25 tsunami buoys, only three operated correctly, he said.  Survival Instincts  Two  power plants  in Belawan and Banda Aceh were disrupted,
with electricity completely restored about five hours after the
quake, said Bambang Dwiyanto, a spokesman at PT Perusahaan
Listrik Negara, the state-owned utility.  As warnings spread across the region and reached those at
risk, survival instincts took over. Many ignored instructions to
leave motorcycles or cars behind and to run for higher ground,
clogging up roads and intersections. With motorists attempting
to drive away from Banda Aceh, a city of 222,000, traffic ground
to a halt and added to the potential casualties.  “We need more evacuation boards, routes, meeting points
and training,” said Indonesia’s Nugroho, whose agency has
recorded 1,712 tsunamis across the nation since 1629.  The agency is seeking the collaboration of local
governments in providing emergency routes and taking care of
signboards and shelters after some infrastructure was lost or
stolen, Nugroho said.  Empty Shelters  In Thailand, most locals and foreigners at resorts followed
evacuation orders according to plan, Thailand’s Kaosuwan said.
“Yet there were people in some remote areas that failed to
follow the instructions and guidelines. We have to educate them
for future disasters.”  Thailand’s beach resorts of Phuket and Krabi were among the
worst-hit tourist destinations in 2004.  A vertical shelter in Aceh with a capacity of 1,000 people
was used by only 46 people, Nugroho said.  Such shelters include high-rise buildings, bridges and man-
made hills. Padang, the capital of West Sumatra province, has
seven of them. The city of 833,000 inhabitants would need 300 to
500 shelters, according to Nugroho.  Relief efforts in the 2004 tsunami were hampered by a lack
of roads and communication in remote areas such as Aceh, which
also suffered from conflict between the government and a rebel
separatist movement at the time. The devastation paved the way
for a peace agreement in 2005.  More evacuation drills must be performed, Razali of the Red
Cross said.  Ring of Fire  Indonesia’s 18,000 islands sit along the Pacific’s “ring
of fire” zone of active volcanoes and tectonic faults. Aceh, on
the northern tip of Sumatra, is one of Indonesia’s poorest
provinces, where 170,000 people died or went missing in the
 Indian Ocean  tsunami in 2004.  A 6.8-magnitude earthquake struck off Indonesia’s West
Papua in the morning of April 21.  President Yudhoyono has ordered the National Disaster
Management Agency to design a master plan to anticipate
disasters and expects to get a proposal within two months,
Julian Aldrin Pasha, the presidential spokesman, said April 16.  “The Indonesian government will fund the infrastructure
through the 2013 budget, while local governments should be
responsible for maintenance,” the spokesman said.  The April 11 earthquake and tsunami panic soon turned to
relief, as deadly waves never materialized, and warnings started
coming down about four hours later.  Makeshift Megaphone  Where warning systems failed, people on the ground did what
they could to spread the message.  The  Red Cross ’s Razali, when he realized a quake had
struck, hurried to tune in to the citizen radio network called
 Radio Antar Penduduk Indonesia , the Indonesian Inter-Citizen
Radio. Instinctively, he raised the radio’s volume, plugged it
into his walkie-talkie, which Indonesians call handy-talkies or
HTs, and hung it outside his window before resuming his journey
to the city of Banda Aceh, driving the remaining 1.5 kilometers
slowly.  “People were able to hear the latest information about a
possible tsunami and aftershocks from our handy-talky,” Razali
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net  