-- U.K.’s Alexander Vows Tougher Spending Checks on Departments
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-04-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/u-k-s-alexander-vows-tougher-spending-checks-on-departments.html
U.K. Chief Secretary to the
Treasury Danny Alexander plans to set out tougher spending rules
for government departments to prevent slippage in the country’s
fiscal plans.  Alexander will propose departments have to hold 5 percent
of their non-capital budgets in reserve to allow them to meet
unforeseen spending needs without tapping the Exchequer for more
money, according to the text of a speech he’s due to make today.
Department heads will also have to meet the Treasury on a
monthly basis to provide an update on expenditure.  “These controls are not just a tweak,” Alexander will say
in  London , according to the remarks released by his office.
“They are another signal of our unwavering determination to
deliver the fiscal consolidation we promised.”  Alexander will use the speech to attack the opposition
 Labour Party  by repeating that its plans to ease the pace of
 deficit reduction  would turn the eyes of investors on Britain’s
fiscal sustainability. Still, polls continue to show  David Cameron ’s Conservative Party-led government is losing support
following a Budget that cut taxes on high earners while raising
them for pensioners.  The government in November slashed a further 15 billion
pounds ($24 billion) of spending and pushed out its target to
balance the books by 2017, two years later than planned when the
coalition took power in 2010. Alexander is a member of the
Liberal Democrats, the minority party in the government.  Budget Speech  On updated figures published in last month’s Budget,
Alexander is on track to achieving almost a third of the
spending squeeze planned by 2015. Spending was cut by 23 billion
pounds in the year through March 2012, and is forecast to be cut
by 79 billion pounds by 2015 and 126 billion pounds by 2017,
Budget documents show.  The new spending code to be announced by Alexander may fall
short of his promise that governments will “never again” be in
a position to run up record deficits, because it applies only to
discretionary spending within government departments. Welfare
payments that needed to be maintained as tax receipts fell
during the financial crisis were among the main drivers of the
deficit that peaked at 157 billion pounds in 2010.  A ComRes Ltd. poll for the Independent on Sunday newspaper
found that 34 percent of people said they’d vote Conservative,
down three percentage points from the previous poll, conducted
before the March 21 budget. The opposition Labour Party was
unchanged at 40 percent.  Nick Clegg ’s Liberal Democrats, the
junior partner in the collation government, was on 11 percent,
up one point.  On the Budget itself, 54 percent disagreed that it was
“generally fair”, against 27 percent who agreed.  ComRes interviewed 2,048 adults online on April 18 and 19.
No error margin was given.  A  YouGov Plc (YOU)  poll of 1,714 adults April 19-20 put the
Conservatives on 33 percent and Labour on 41 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  