-- Murdoch to Face Second Most Humble Day at U.K. Ethics Probe
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-23T09:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/murdoch-faces-second-most-humble-day-at-u-k-media-ethics-probe.html
Rupert Murdoch told U.K. lawmakers
probing phone hacking by a  News Corp. (NWSA)  tabloid in July that
testifying about the scandal was the “most humble day” of his
life. He may be humbled again this week.  The 81-year-old chairman and his son James will testify for
three days starting tomorrow at a media-ethics inquiry triggered
by the scandal over journalists intercepting voice mails of
politicians and celebrities. The inquiry won’t accept the
“evasive” answers they gave Parliament, said  Duncan Lamont , a
lawyer for other media companies.  The probe, led by Judge Brian Leveson, “will not be so
generous in allowing the Murdochs to obfuscate or not have
recollections and just say ‘sorry,’” Lamont said in a phone
interview. “There will be a more forensic analysis.”  The inquiry began last year after evidence emerged that
phone hacking at News Corp.’s News of the World was rampant and
not limited to a rogue reporter. Regulator Ofcom is also
examining whether News Corp. is “fit and proper” to own 39
percent of pay-TV provider  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY) 
and opened a probe into its Sky News channel today to
investigate e-mail hacking by a reporter.  The phone-hacking scandal, which faded after a News Corp.
reporter and a private investigator were jailed in 2007, emerged
again last year and led to 45 new arrests, the closing of the
168-year-old News of the World and probes into computer hacking
and bribery at the company’s other newspapers.  Celebrities, Police  Rupert Murdoch will testify April 25 and 26. James Murdoch,
News Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer and the former
chairman of the U.K. unit that published the News of the World,
will appear tomorrow. News Corp. spokeswoman Miranda Higham
declined to comment.  Leveson’s inquiry, which is now looking at the media’s
relationship with politicians, was called for by Prime Minister
 David Cameron  to respond to the phone-hacking crisis. The first
two portions of the review looked at the U.K. press dealings
with celebrities and the police.  The Murdochs’ testimony is crucial for the inquiry because
of their dominant role in the industry, said Tim Bale, a
professor of politics at the University of Sussex. The New York-
based company still owns the Sun, the nation’s best-selling
newspaper, and the Times and Sunday Times.  News Corp. is “clearly an incredibly important part of the
media landscape into which Leveson is inquiring,” Bale said.
“If you’re going to talk about the media in Britain in the last
few decades, you’re really going to have to talk to Murdoch.”  Political Sway  Rupert Murdoch ’s political sway goes back to 1979, when he
started his streak of supporting winning U.K. prime ministers by
endorsing  Margaret Thatcher . U.K. politicians have courted
Murdoch ever since. Before he became prime minister, when he was
still the opposition leader,  Tony Blair , flew to  Australia  in
1995 to address a meeting of News Corp. executives.  Cameron, a Conservative, said last month he rode a horse
offered by Rebekah Brooks, the former CEO of News Corp.’s U.K.
publishing unit who has been arrested twice in hacking-related
probes. He did so before becoming prime minister in 2010.  In July, Cameron said “the clock has stopped” on
Murdoch’s influence over British politics. He made the comment
the same month that ex-News of the World editor  Andy Coulson ,
who resigned in 2007, was arrested in the phone-hacking probe.
Coulson went on to be Cameron’s press chief until January 2011,
when he quit as a result of the scandal.  ‘People I Trusted’  Rupert Murdoch defended his company and his actions before
Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sport Committee on July 19,
drawing criticism for short answers and long pauses.  He said he wasn’t responsible for what happened at the News
of the World. Asked whom he blamed, he replied: “The people
that I trusted to run it, and then maybe the people that they
trusted.”  The company’s former U.K. law firm, Harbottle & Lewis LLP,
sent a letter to the committee a month later, saying the elder
Murdoch was “confused or misinformed” and that he’d given
“inaccurate and misleading” testimony.  James Murdoch ’s testimony before the lawmakers drew an even
harsher response. Former News of the World editor  Colin Myler 
and the tabloid’s lawyer Tom Crone disputed his claim that he
wasn’t aware more than one reporter was involved in phone
hacking, and the men told Parliament they informed James Murdoch
in 2008 that others were implicated.  BSkyB Bid  During questioning by Parliament, 11 lawmakers took turns
questioning the pair about topics from political influence to
the company’s decision to abandon its 7.8-billion-pound ($12.6
billion) bid to buy all of BSkyB. The proceedings were
interrupted by a protester who attempted to hit Rupert Murdoch
with a foam cream “pie” before being punched by Rupert’s wife,
Wendi Murdoch.  The younger Murdoch stepped down as chairman of BSkyB
earlier this month following demands that he resign over his
role in the phone-hacking scandal.  Since the July appearance before Parliament, additional
evidence has emerged in lawsuits from phone-hacking victims,
police investigations and the company’s own internal probe.  Police have arrested current and former reporters and
editors on suspicion of paying off police officers and public
officials, and perverting the course of justice. The scandal has
engulfed the Sun, where more than a dozen journalists have been
arrested, and the Times, which has admitted hacking a computer.  ‘Fear and Favor’  “It’s fear and favor,” Labour lawmaker  Chris Bryant  said
in an interview. “The way they operated was lots of rewards if
you were nice to Sky and pursued by journalists and private
investigators if you weren’t. I got threats.”  News Corp.’s Higham declined to comment on Bryant’s
statement.  The company has spent has spent at least $195 million
dealing with the scandal and settled dozens of lawsuits by
hacking victims, including Bryant and actor Jude Law. The
company paid damages on the basis that senior employees were
involved in a cover-up by trying to destroy e-mail archives.  The Leveson inquiry is an opportunity to ask the Murdochs
important questions about the scandal that haven’t been asked,
the  University of Sussex ’s Bale said.  “They didn’t really get the grilling that they deserved
before the MPs, for all the huff and puff,” he said. “The
Leveson inquiry will, presumably because it’s conducted by a
judge and a counsel, put rather harder questions to the Murdochs
and make it rather less easy for them to evade responsibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  