-- Vodafone Said to Be Near Deal to Buy Cable & Wireless
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-04-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/vodafone-said-to-be-near-deal-to-buy-cable-wireless.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  is nearing an
agreement to acquire  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/) , adding a
U.K. fixed-line network to its mobile-phone system, according to
people familiar with the situation.  The world’s largest wireless operator is offering about
35 pence to 39 pence a share, the people said, declining to be
identified because the talks are private.  Cable & Wireless 
closed at 32 pence in  London  on April 20, giving the company a
market value of 879 million pounds ($1.4 billion). It has gained
62 percent since Vodafone publicly expressed interest Feb. 13.  Vodafone became the sole bidder for London-based Cable &
Wireless after  Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM)  last week failed to
agree on a price and decided against making an offer. Newbury,
England-based Vodafone is pursuing a European fixed-line
acquisition for the first time since 2010, when it ended talks
to buy Germany’s  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG. (KD8)   “Vodafone could benefit from a combination of revenue
synergies, cost synergies and tax assets which together could be
worth 1 billion pounds,” Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts
led by Wilton Fry wrote in an April 20 note.  Representatives at Vodafone and Cable & Wireless declined
to comment yesterday. Vodafone has until noon in London today to
make a firm offer or walk away from the talks. The companies may
still fail to reach an agreement, the people said.  Network Strain  Cable & Wireless shares may drop to about 22 pence if
Vodafone walks away, acccording to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch analysts.  The company, tracing its roots to 1866 when the first
submarine cable across the Atlantic Ocean was laid, has holdings
in more than 60 global cable systems. It also owns the largest
U.K. fiber system for businesses, which Vodafone may use to
relieve the strain of surging data traffic on its mobile-phone
system.  Separated from its parent company in March 2010, Cable &
Wireless was once worth 2.4 billion pounds. The stock has lost
65 percent of its value in the past two years. In November, the
company suspended future  dividend payments  as sales fell in its
traditional voice network.  Gavin Darby, a former Vodafone executive who replaced  John Pluthero  as Cable & Wireless’s chief executive officer in
November, said Feb. 16 that he would rethink network investments
in the U.K. and overseas. The company plans to simplify its
business and management structure and cut more head office jobs,
with “more significant, strategic decisions” due next month.  Vodafone fell 0.5 percent to 171.5 pence on April 20. The
stock is down 4.1 percent this year on the London exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  