-- Wal-Mart Probes Allegations of Bribes to Mexican Officials
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-04-22T21:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/wal-mart-probes-allegations-of-bribes-to-mexican-officials.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  said it is
investigating allegations that some executives bribed officials
in Mexico to clear the way for store openings in the early 2000s
and that a subsequent internal probe may have fallen short.  The retailer yesterday confirmed the new investigation
after a story in the  New York Times  alleged Wal-Mart had found
evidence of more than $24 million in bribes made to Mexican
officials to speed store openings. Top executives, including
then-Chief Executive Officer and current board member Lee Scott,
were briefed about the alleged payments after they were first
probed in 2005, the newspaper reported.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, said it has met
voluntarily with the  U.S. Department of Justice  and the
Securities and Exchange Commission to discuss the case. The
Bentonville, Arkansas-based company is also enhancing its audit
procedures and internal controls to escalate to management
possible violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  “We take compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act very seriously and are committed to having a
strong and effective global anti-corruption program in every
country in which we operate,”  David Tovar , a Wal-Mart
spokesman, said in a statement yesterday. “We will not tolerate
noncompliance with FCPA anywhere or at any level of the
company.”  Wal-Mart started the latest investigation last fall through
the board’s auditing committee. Tovar said in the statement that
the company hasn’t reached any conclusions yet. Wal-Mart will
conduct training for its employees and put in place more robust
policies and controls, Tovar said in the statement.  Wal-Mart expanded rapidly in Mexico in the 2000s. The
company has about 2,088 stores in Mexico, according to its
annual report, out of more than 10,000 locations worldwide.  2005 Investigation  The Times article identified Eduardo Castro-Wright, now a
Wal-Mart vice chairman, as a central figure in the expansion of
the alleged payments starting after his arrival at Wal-Mart de
 Mexico  in 2001. In a telephone interview, Tovar declined to
discuss the executive’s future. Castro-Wright is set to retire
July 1 and still works for Wal-Mart.  The newspaper detailed the company’s 2005 investigation by
examining hundreds of internal documents, as well as more than
15 hours of interviews with former Wal-Mart de Mexico executive
Sergio Cicero Zapata, who recounted years of payoffs to
government officials.  The Times said it looked at thousands of government
documents related to store permit requests throughout Mexico and
found many instances of permits being granted within weeks or
days of Wal-Mart de Mexico’s payments to two outside lawyers who
gave cash to the officials.  Mexican Executives  The Times report said that Wal-Mart decided in February
2006 to turn the investigation over to the then-general counsel
of the Mexican subsidiary, Jose Luis Rodriguezmacedo Rivera,
himself a target of the investigation. Rodriguezmacedo finished
the probe within weeks, concluding there was no evidence of
bribes paid to Mexican government officials, the Times said.  Rodriguezmacedo declined to comment to the newspaper, and
attempts by Bloomberg to reach him were unsuccessful.  The Times said that in December 2011, after learning of the
newspaper’s reporting in Mexico, Wal-Mart told the  Justice
Department  of its investigation into whether some of its actions
violated U.S. anti-corruption laws. The company is investigating
permitting, licensing and inspections, according to its form
10-Q filed with the SEC on Dec. 8, 2011.  Outside Advisers  Wal-Mart also has hired outside advisers to help with the
investigation.  “In a large global enterprise such as Wal-Mart, sometimes
issues arise despite our best efforts and intentions,” Tovar
said in the statement. “When they do, we take them seriously
and act as quickly as possible to understand what happened. We
take action and work to implement changes so the issue doesn’t
happen again.”  The allegations will do nothing to help Mexico fight a
reputation for government corruption.  Latin America ’s second-
biggest economy last year fell to No. 100 out of 183 countries
for perceived levels of corruption, according to Berlin-based
 Transparency International .  Mexican Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade said his
government hasn’t decided whether to open a probe of its own.
The government is collecting more information on the
allegations, he said.  “I’ve seen the story and we’re looking into it,” Meade said
in an interview in  Washington  after participating in a panel
discussion at the  World Bank . He later told reporters in the
hallway that officials “don’t have enough elements” to open an
investigation and “when we have enough, we’ll decide how to
proceed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net  