-- Wen Asks Merkel to Ease EU’s Technology Export Curbs on China
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-04-23T11:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/wen-jiabao-tells-merkel-china-to-keep-market-policies-on-track.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  asked
German Chancellor Angela Merkel to lobby fellow European Union
leaders to ease EU curbs on technology exports to  China .  “China is happy to import more from  Germany  and also hopes
the German side will move the EU toward a loosening of export
restrictions against China in the field of technology,” Wen
said today at a business forum in Hanover, Germany, where he
shared the podium with Merkel.  Wen coupled his request with an invitation for German
 companies  to boost investment in high-quality manufacturing and
aerospace industries as he seeks to extend China’s economic
boom. There was no immediate reaction by Merkel, who jointly
opened the annual Hanover Trade Fair with Wen yesterday.  China must stay the course on market policies that spurred
its economic rise and that remain the key to catching up with
more advanced nations, Wen said yesterday at the fair, a
showcase of industrial companies where China is the featured
country this year.  “We should firmly carry out market-oriented reform,” he
said. “Reform is the unending source of power driving China’s
economic development and social progress. We should continue to
open China to abroad.”  Wen’s message comes after the Chinese Politburo’s
suspension of Bo Xilai, the Communist Party chief of the
industrial city of Chongqing, exposed a political rift over
balancing China’s economic boom and growing  income inequality .
The Chinese leader is on a European trip that included a stop in
Iceland and takes him to  Poland  this week.  ‘Immense Potential’  Economic policies pursued by China since its opening to the
West more than 30 years ago have “released immense potential in
the society,” Wen said yesterday, according to an English
translation of his remarks.  Europe’s debt crisis isn’t over and the path to global
economic recovery is “full of potholes,” he said. China and
Germany agree that overcoming the crisis requires stable growth
of the “real economy,” he said at the opening ceremony.  In her opening speech, Merkel said taking up more debt to
spur economic growth isn’t the solution.  Germany has a responsibility for “decent economic
progress” in the world, Merkel said. “We are still in the
midst of overcoming this debt crisis. China always said, ‘We
have confidence in  Europe , we have confidence in the euro.’”  At the same time, China’s strength in innovation presents a
growing challenge to German industry, Merkel said today.  “This is an incentive for German companies to keep
pushing, get better and get faster in the area in which we built
the foundation of our successes and our prosperity for more than
100 years,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  