-- World’s Best Restaurant Noma to Open at Claridge’s London
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-04-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/world-s-best-restaurant-noma-to-open-in-london.html
Noma, the Copenhagen establishment
that has held the title of the World’s Best Restaurant for the
past two years, is to open a temporary venue at Claridge’s hotel
during the London 2012  Olympic Games .  Chef Rene Redzepi’s “A Taste of Noma at Claridge’s” will
serve a five-course menu, lunch and dinner for 10 days, from
July 28 through Aug. 6 in Claridge’s Ballroom. The price will be
195 pounds ($314.38).  “It’s very exciting for us to dip our toes in another
country and to see what we can create,” Redzepi said in a
telephone interview. “And the timing is perfect: we’re closing
Noma from July 20 to Aug. 15 for a renovation.”  It will be the first time Redzepi has taken Noma overseas
and demand for tables will be heavy. Diners from around the
world wait months for a table in Copenhagen. Noma receives as
many as 100,000 reservation inquiries a month, over which time
it serves a total of just 450 tables, Redzepi said.  Redzepi and his chefs from Copenhagen will recreate Noma
dishes using seasonal British ingredients. Details of how to
book are scheduled to be published this morning at
 http://www.claridges.co.uk/atasteofnoma  after the project is
announced.  Redzepi was this month included in  Time  magazine’s list of
“The 100 Most Influential People in the World.” Noma -- which
stands for “Nordisk Mad,” or Nordic Food -- is housed in a
warehouse by the waterside in Copenhagen’s Christianshavn
district.  Koffmann, Keller  Redzepi will be the third star chef to open a pop-up
restaurant in  London  in the past three years. Pierre Koffmann
was first, with his rooftop venue at Selfridges in October 2009.
 Thomas Keller  followed with the French Laundry at Harrods last
year.  Noma is again a contender in this year’s  World’s 50 Best
Restaurants  event, in London on April 30. (I chair the U.K. and
Ireland panel for the awards.)  Taste Festivals , which organizes events around the world,
advised Claridge’s on the pop-up restaurant. The London Olympic
Games run from July 27 through Aug. 12.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater 
and  John Mariani  on  wine .  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 