-- World’s Highest Stock Valuations Signal Japanese Recovery
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n ,   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-04-23T08:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/world-s-highest-stock-valuations-signal-japanese-quake-recovery.html
Japan ’s stock market, hobbled by
more than a decade of deflation, is showing companies will stage
a full earnings recovery from the worst nuclear crisis since
Chernobyl, pricing in the biggest increase in profits compared
with other countries since 2001.  Income in the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  will rise by 69
percent in 2012, after plunging 31 percent last year, according
to more than 2,600 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. At
24.5 times reported earnings, Japanese equities are the most
 expensive  among the world’s 60 biggest markets, trading so high
that only by meeting analysts’ forecasts will ratios come back
in line with global stocks, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The worst is over for Japan in terms of earnings,”
Masafumi Oshiden, an investment manager at ING Mutual Funds
Management Co. (Japan) Ltd., said in a telephone interview on
April 18. The firm oversees about 1.5 trillion yen ($18.4
billion). “ Consumer spending  is improving and corporate
earnings are rebounding. The cautious mood following the quake
is gone.”  Bulls say the  valuations  show confidence in a recovery that
will help Japanese stocks close the gap with the MSCI All-
Country World Index, which has risen almost three times as much
since 2009. Bears point to combined annual losses from  Sony
Corp. (6758)  and Sharp Corp. of 900 billion yen and an economy that has
contracted three of the past four years as evidence the Nikkei
225, which has rallied 17 percent since November, has come too
far, too fast.  Earnings Season  The rate of profit growth in Japan is forecast to exceed
global earnings by the most on record, with analysts projecting
income in the MSCI All-Country World Excluding Japan Index will
rise 10 percent this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Canon Inc., Fanuc Corp. and Japan Tobacco Inc. are
among 70 companies in the Nikkei 225 scheduled to post results
in the next two weeks.  The Nikkei 225 fell 0.2 percent to 9,542.17 in  Tokyo . The
 index  would trade at 14.8 times earnings should analyst profit
forecasts for this year materialize and stocks neither rise nor
fall, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 24 percent
cheaper than the six-year average for the gauge and comparable
to a multiple of 12 for MSCI’s global equity index that excludes
Japan’s shares.  Shrinking Population  While Japanese companies are on track to recoup losses from
the record magnitude-9 earthquake in March 2011, the economy
still faces a shrinking population, the world’s highest debt
burden and a currency near the strongest level since World War
II. The Nikkei 225 is 75 percent below the December 1989 peak
reached during the nation’s housing bubble and the yen has
tripled in the past 30 years.  The index is 6.8 percent below its close on March 11, 2011,
even after a 13 percent rally this year, the fifth-best
performance among 24 developed markets around the world. Policy
makers in Tokyo have committed to 20 trillion yen in relief
spending to rebuild towns and spur economic growth. Bank of
Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  pledged during a speech in New
York last week to continue adding monetary stimulus.  Japan’s economy will limit gains in stocks, according to
 Shane Oliver , the Sydney-based head of investment strategy at
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which oversees about $100 billion.
Gross domestic product may increase 1.6 percent this year,
compared with an estimated 2.3 percent global expansion,
according to the median economist estimate from a Bloomberg
survey. Population in the country fell by a record 0.2 percent
in 2011, the government said last week.  Trailing Global Peers  “There are several drags on Japanese shares,” Oliver said
in an April 19 phone interview. “One of them is ongoing
deflation, which acts as a disincentive to spending and is also
a huge constraint on company profits. The other is a relatively
strong yen, which is actually a drag on growth and
competitiveness in Japan.”  Japanese shares have trailed most major equity gauges since
global markets bottomed in March 9, 2009. The Nikkei 225 is up
35 percent, compared with 89 percent for the MSCI global index
and 104 percent in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Strategists
say the Nikkei 225 may advance 11 percent to 10,600 by the end
of the year, according to the median of 15 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Cutting Costs  “Japanese companies have been very good at cutting costs
and doing the right things in order to compete, particularly in
the case when they have such a strong currency,”  Martin Schulz ,
director of international equities at PNC Capital Advisors LLC
in  Cleveland , said in a telephone interview on April 20. His
firm manages $35 billion. “It’ll take a long time for them to
get back to the Nikkei levels they reached in the 1990s.”  Tokyo-based Sony shares slumped 26 percent since March 16
as the first decline in global TV shipments in six years and a
stronger yen eroded income at Japan’s biggest electronics
exporter. Gains in the currency reduce the value of overseas
profits earned by Japanese companies.  The yen has weakened 8.7 percent in 2012 versus nine
developed-nation peers as the  Bank of Japan  set an inflation
goal of 1 percent and expanded asset purchases by 10 trillion
yen in February. The currency is forecast to decline 3 percent
to 84 per dollar by the end of the year, according to the median
estimate of 75 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Toyota Profits  Harris Associates LP’s Rob Taylor, who owns shares of
Toyota Motor Corp., said further declines in the yen will boost
profits and stock prices. Toyota’s operating income fell by 305
billion yen during the last nine months of 2011, with currency
fluctuations contributing 200 billion yen to the decline, the
company said on Feb. 7.  Japanese executives “have been taking a lot of costs out
and trying to be able to make money in this very harsh
environment,” Taylor, a  fund manager  at Chicago-based Harris
Associates, said in a phone interview on April 17. His firm
manages $74.7 billion. “Then you get the yen weakening, and
then you’ll start to really see those earnings snap back.”  Asia ’s biggest carmaker raised its forecast on April 5 for
sales of cars and light trucks by the U.S. auto industry this
year. The company’s financing unit sold 15 billion yen of five-
year bonds last week with a 0.415 percent coupon, the lowest
since April 2003, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Shares of the
Toyota City, Japan-based company have rallied 28 percent this
year.  “The Japanese market has its own engines to start rising,
rather than just relying on the global economy,” Arnout Van Rijn, chief investment officer for Robeco Groep NV’s  Hong Kong 
division, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on April 18.
The firm oversees $200 billion globally. “It’s after a very
long  bear market  and it doesn’t take much for this market to
really start moving up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  