-- Yankees Overcome 9-Run Deficit to Hand Boston 5th Straight Loss
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-22T04:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/yankees-overcome-9-run-deficit-to-hand-boston-5th-straight-loss.html
Nick Swisher  and  Mark Teixeira 
combined to drive in 12 runs, sparking the  New York Yankees  to
overcome a nine-run deficit and hand a fifth straight loss to
the  Boston  Red Sox 15-9.  At Safeco Field in  Seattle , Philip Humber of the  Chicago
White Sox  retired 27 consecutive batters to pitch the 21st
perfect game in  Major League Baseball  in a 4-0 win against the
 Seattle Mariners . The righthander delivered 96 pitches,
including 67 strikes as he struck out nine Seattle batters to
improve his career record to 12-10 over six seasons.  The Yankees (9-6) were down 9-0 through five innings of
their contest yesterday before Teixeira hit a solo home run in
the sixth inning at Boston’s Fenway Park. Swisher hit a grand
slam in the seventh inning followed by Teixeira’s home run that
drove in Robinson Cano and  Alex Rodriguez  to narrow the deficit
to one run.  Swisher gave the Yankees their first lead of the game, 10-9,
in the eighth with a two-run double before Teixeira’s ground-
rule double sent home Swisher and Cano. Russell Martin hit a
two-run double and scored on an infield single by Derek Jeter as
the Yankees recorded back-to-back seven-run innings.  ‘Pretty Cool’  “That was pretty cool,” Teixeira said. “I’ve played a
lot of games, and that may be the most fun regular-season game
I’ve ever been a part of.”  The Yankees had trailed 9-0 in the fifth after Cody Ross
hit a two-run homer for Boston (4-10).  Rafael Soriano (2-0) got the win as he allowed one hit and
struck out one in an inning. Alfredo Aceves (0-1) came in for
the  Red Sox  in the eighth inning and surrendered five runs on
two hits while walking four to take the loss.  The Red Sox’s five-game losing streak is their longest
since Sept. 7-11, and the first time they have lost five
consecutive home games since April 6-19, 2010.  “I think we’ve hit bottom,” Red Sox manager  Bobby Valentine  told reporters. “If this isn’t bottom, we need to
find some new ends of the earth.”  Adrian Gonzalez hit a run-scoring ground-rule double and
then scored on  David Ortiz ’s double. Mike Aviles drove in Ross
in the second, Darnell McDonald scored on Ryan Sweeney’s
sacrifice fly and Dustin Pedroia sent home Aviles for a 5-0 lead
at the end of the second inning.  No Fun to Lose  Ortiz scored in the third on McDonald’s sacrifice fly and
Aviles drove in Kevin Youkilis on a single before Ross ended the
Red Sox run in the fifth.  “I don’t like to lose. I don’t know anybody who does,”
Aviles told reporters. “This wasn’t fun at all. I don’t want to
see it if it gets any worse.”  At Citi Field in  New York , Ruben Tejada scored on a
throwing error by San Francisco Giants catcher  Buster Posey  to
break a tie and give the Mets a 5-4 win in the bottom of the
ninth inning.  Tejada drove in three runs in the fifth and seventh innings
while Daniel Murphy scored on Ike Davis’s infield single for a
4-1 lead in the eighth. Emmanuel Burris hit a run-scoring single
and Brandon Belt followed with a two-run double in the ninth to
tie the game at 4-4 for the Giants.  Jon Rauch (2-0) allowed one hit and struck out one in one-
third of an inning for the win. Clay Hensley (1-1) gave up one
run on one hit in one-third of an inning for the loss.  In other American League games, it was Texas Rangers 10,
Detroit Tigers 4; Tampa Bay 4, Minnesota 1; Toronto 9, Kansas
City 5; the Los Angeles Angels 6, Baltimore 3; and Cleveland 5,
Oakland 1.  In the National League, it was the Chicago Cubs 6,
Cincinnati 1; Washington 3, Miami 2 (10 innings); the Los
Angeles Dodgers 5, Houston 1; Pittsburgh 2, St. Louis 0;
Milwaukee 9, Colorado 4; Atlanta 3, Arizona 2; and San Diego 5,
Philadelphia 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  