-- Yankees-Red Sox Among Three Major League Games Postponed by Rain
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-04-23T04:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/yankees-red-sox-game-postponed-because-of-rain-in-boston-area.html
The nationally-televised Sunday
night matchup between the  New York Yankees  and the Red Sox at
Boston’s Fenway Park was one of three Major League Baseball
games postponed by rain yesterday.  The  New York Mets  had their home game against the  San
Francisco Giants  washed out while the Miami Marlins’ game in
Washington against the Nationals was also postponed.  Heavy rains through today may cause flooding for some areas
on the East Coast, including  New York City , Boston and
Philadelphia. As much as 2 inches of rain could fall in  New York 
and 2.75 inches in Boston by the time the storm tapers off later
today, according to the National Weather Service, which has a
flood watch in effect from Maine to eastern Pennsylvania.  The Mets have scheduled a single-admission double-header
today against the Giants beginning at 4:10 p.m. local time at
Citi Field, weather permitting.  No makeup dates have been announced for the Marlins-
Nationals and Yankees- Red Sox  games. The Yankees travel to Texas
to begin a three-game series against the Rangers today, while
the Red Sox open a seven-game road trip today in Minnesota with
the first of three games against the Twins.  The Pittsburgh Pirates’ home game against the Colorado
Rockies tonight could also be threatened by the Northeast storm.
As much as 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 centimeters) of snow may fall
from Buffalo, New York, southward through Pittsburgh and into
West Virginia, according to AccuWeather Inc.  The Texas Rangers improved their record to a major league-
best 13-3 yesterday with a 3-2 win over the Detroit Tigers in 11
innings. Alberto Gonzalez drove in the winning run with an
infield single in the matchup of division leaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 