-- Yellen Revealing Twists With No Turns
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-04-22T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/yellen-revealing-twists-with-no-turns.html
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  says the
end of the Federal Reserve’s so-called Operation Twist won’t
amount to a tightening of monetary policy. Whether investors
agree may help determine the central bank’s next steps.  The Fed’s program to swap $400 billion of short-term
securities in its portfolio for longer-term debt is scheduled to
be completed in June, and Yellen, 65, doesn’t see the need for
additional stimulus purely to blunt the impact. That’s because
the measure eases policy by expanding the Fed’s  balance sheet ,
not through the flow of purchases, she said April 11.  If the Fed refrains from further easing and Operation Twist
ends without jolting markets, that would “absolutely” boost
central bankers’ confidence in the economy, said  Jim Paulsen ,
chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management. Fed
officials, who meet April 24-25, are considering keeping
monetary policy on hold as the U.S. shows signs of strength
following record accommodation.  “Ultimately the market is going to come to the decision
that this thing can survive without emergency assistance,”
Paulsen, who helps oversee about $325 billion, said in an
interview from his Minneapolis office.  He predicts the Fed won’t undertake additional bond buying.
“I suspect it’s winding down, and the next discussion is going
to be ‘Shouldn’t they start normalizing?’”  Thirty-eight, or 76 percent, of 50 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey conducted from April 18 to 20 thought the
end of Operation Twist would result in an increase of 0.25
percentage point or less in 10-year Treasury yields.  ‘Lost Momentum’  Members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  upgraded their
assessment of the economy at their March meeting and called for
more easing only if the expansion “lost momentum” or if
inflation stays below their 2 percent inflation target, the
minutes showed. Since then, growth has continued, with gains in
the labor market, sales and consumer confidence.  Yellen, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s top lieutenant in
 Washington  for a year and a half, and Federal Reserve Bank of
New York President William C. Dudley gave little indication in
speeches this month that a third round of large-scale asset
purchases is imminent.  “If we were to end the maturity-extension program in June
as currently planned and not to announce further actions beyond
that, I would not see that as a tightening of policy,” Yellen
said in response to an audience question after an April 11
speech in  New York .  The Fed completed two bond-buying programs totaling $2.3
trillion in June. Dudley played down the prospects for a third
round of so-called quantitative easing, saying in Syracuse, New
York, on April 12 that it might “create more anxiety on the
part of some that it would lead to future inflation.”  No Sign of Withdrawal  Still, he and Yellen endorsed the central bank’s plan to
keep  borrowing costs  low through late 2014, again giving no sign
the Fed is ready to withdraw any of its stimulus. Yellen, who
has spent most of her career teaching economics and researching
labor markets, said she considers “a highly accommodative
policy stance to be appropriate,” given unemployment will
decline “only gradually.”  While the jobless rate has fallen to 8.2 percent from 10
percent in October 2009, it’s still well above the Fed’s 5
percent to 6 percent estimate for full employment.  “The Fed’s staying on hold, and they’re just going to be
cautious,” as “there are a lot of good signs and some negative
signs,” said  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo
Securities LLC in Charlotte,  North Carolina .  “That’s why a lot
of these speeches by Fed governors appear to be frustrating to
so many people,” because investors would like “accelerating
economic growth” not the current moderate expansion.  Reinforced Perception  Stocks fell on April 3 after the minutes from the March 13
meeting dashed expectations for more Fed stimulus, kicking off a
five-day decline in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)  The  S&P 500 
then climbed 1.4 percent on April 12 after Yellen and Dudley’s
remarks reinforced the perception that borrowing costs will
remain low.  “The Fed’s in a difficult position, as I know everyone
wants to see 3, 3 1/2, 4 percent growth, but that’s hard for the
Fed to generate when so many of the issues,” such as fiscal
cutbacks and the crisis in  Europe , are outside its control,
Silvia said. He estimates the economy will expand at a more
moderate pace of about 2 percent to 2.5 percent.  Silvia predicts the Fed will wrap up Operation Twist
without new stimulus, and he doesn’t see “a big reaction
whatsoever” in the market. Yields on 10-year Treasuries may
rise no more than 25 basis points, he said.  Operation Twist  The Fed’s bond buying has succeeded in driving down
borrowing costs, with the yield on the benchmark Treasury note
falling to an all-time low of 1.67 percent on Sept. 23, two days
after Operation Twist was announced. Yields since have climbed
to  1.96 percent  as of April 20 on improvement in the economic
outlook.  Not all investors are convinced the end of Operation Twist
will be a nonevent. Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  still predicts the Fed will use its balance sheet for more
stimulus as growth weakens.  “Without QE, the financial markets and then the economy
will falter,” Gross, who oversees the world’s biggest bond
fund, wrote in a Twitter post on April 4.  Should Gross’s prediction prove correct and investors react
adversely, the Fed probably would add to its stimulus, according
to  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group
in New York.  Respond Quickly  “The Fed has put itself in a position where it is ready to
respond quickly if the market or the economy moves in a
direction to its disliking,” Lonski said. “Suppose, okay, the
Operation Twist expires and we suddenly have the 10-year
Treasury soaring above 2.5 percent. My sense is the Fed would
not hesitate to do something to bring fixed-rate borrowing costs
lower.”  Lonski said it’s “premature” to assume the Fed is done
easing, given weakness in the housing market and the
“disappointing reading” in the March jobs report.  Sales of previously owned homes unexpectedly fell in March
for the third time in four months, dropping 2.6 percent to a 4.5
million annual rate, because of stricter lending standards,
lower home values and the threat of more foreclosures.  U.S. employers added 120,000 workers last month, the fewest
in five months and less than the most pessimistic estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Unemployment slid to 8.2
percent from 8.3 percent in February as people stopped looking
for work, bolstering Bernanke’s view that declines overstate
gains in the labor market.  ‘No Good Reason’  “I see no good reason to doubt that our nation’s high
unemployment rate indicates a substantial degree of slack in the
labor market,” Yellen said in the April 11 speech. Yellen,
President  Bill Clinton ’s chief economist in the 1990s, said the
Fed is “quite willing and committed to take whatever actions
are necessary” to achieve its goals.  The former San Francisco Fed chief stopped short of calling
for additional stimulus. The labor market still has “shown
welcome signs of improvement,” said Yellen, who joined the
University of California-Berkeley in 1980. She and her husband,
 George Akerlof , a Nobel Prize-winning economist, have written
more than a dozen papers that included studies on unemployment,
wages, street gangs and out-of-wedlock births.  “My reaction to Yellen’s statement is the Fed does feel
more confident that the economy has sustaining growth going
forward,” Silvia said. “They’ve thought about this and said,
‘If we backed away, what do we get?’”  Expanding U.S. Economy  The U.S. will expand at a 2.3 percent pace this year,
compared with 1.7 percent in 2011, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of 75 economists conducted from April 6 to April 11. That
was up from a median forecast of 2.2 percent in the March
survey.  Retail sales have added to signs that growth is
strengthening, with last month’s 0.8 percent gain almost three
times as large as projected, according to Commerce Department
data released April 16.  Consumer confidence  also is holding up,
with the Bloomberg Comfort Index at  minus 31.4  in the period
ended April 15, matching the highest level in four years.  Economic data in the second quarter probably will be strong
enough to keep central banks around the world from repeating the
40 interest-rate cuts and more than $1 trillion in asset
purchases they’ve pursued in the past six months,  Michael Hartnett , chief global equity strategist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in New York, wrote in an April 10 report. That may
portend a tougher period for asset prices, he said.  Increased Forecasts  The  International Monetary Fund  raised its global growth
forecast last week, increasing its prediction to 3.5 percent
this year and 4.1 percent in 2013. The Washington-based IMF
estimated in January that the world economy would expand by 3.3
percent for 2012 and 4 percent next year.  The effect of more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) in
long-term loans from the  European Central Bank  also is fading.
Having offered banks in December and February as much money as
they wanted for three years, the ECB has resisted a third such
offer or adding other stimulus.  Bank of England  officials also
are debating whether to bring their stimulus to a halt, as some
of the nine Monetary Policy Committee members toughen their
stance about the threat of inflation.  Hartnett and his colleagues envisage a “bad Goldilocks”
period in which growth is neither “cold” enough to provoke
more quantitative easing nor “hot” enough to prompt investors
to rotate from bonds into equities or commodities.  Rising Stocks  Between March 31, 2010, when the Fed concluded its first
quantitative easing, and August 27, 2010, when Bernanke signaled
it might restart, the S&P 500 Index fell 9 percent. It’s up 18
percent since Operation Twist was announced Sept. 21.  “There’s certainly a cadre of market participants who
worry that this thing has just been a sugar-high and once you
take that away, can it stand on its own?” Paulsen said.
“There’s gathering evidence it’s taking on more of a self-
sustaining character. The best thing the Fed could do would be
to stand down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  