-- Yemen Says 18 Al-Qaeda Militants Killed in Clashes With Army
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 2012-04-22T21:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-22/yemen-says-18-al-qaeda-militants-killed-in-clashes-with-army.html
Yemen ’s defense ministry said 18
al-Qaeda militants were killed in clashes yesterday with army
troops and by air strikes in Abyan and Marib provinces.  Thirteen militants, including three Somali nationals, were
killed in Lawdar city in the southern province of Abyan in
clashes with the army and militia who have been fending off an
attack on their city for two weeks, the Yemeni defense ministry
said in a statement on its website.  Army troops made progress on recapturing Zinjibar, the
provincial capital of Abyan seized by the militants last year,
the ministry said. Army forces were able to control the southern
and eastern part of the city.  An air strike killed three militants in the central
province of Marib, the ministry said. The strikes targeted
vehicles in the desert, destroying one and partly disabling
another. A third vehicle was able to escape, according to the
statement.  Gerald Feierstein, the U.S. ambassador to Yemen, during a
press conference at the embassy yesterday attributed the army’s
progress to changes made by President Abdurabu Mansur Hadi in
the military’s leadership.  “We have begun to see in the past few days” a strategy
“to challenge al-Qaeda in the way they have not done in the
past months,” Feierstein said of Yemen’s military. While the
U.S. “will continue to look for ways to improve our support,”
he said, the battle now “will be a Yemeni fight.”  Poorest Country  Hadi was elected president of the Arab world’s poorest
country in February after former leader Ali Abdullah Saleh
agreed in November to relinquish power under a Gulf-brokered
peace plan.  Yemen, bordering  Saudi Arabia  and Oman at the southern tip
of the Arabian Peninsula, is struggling to recover from protests
that have weakened the central government’s authority and
reduced oil production to about half of its 250,000-barrel-a-day
capacity.  Hadi fired some Saleh loyalists from the army on April 6
but Saleh’s half-brother, air force commander Mohammed Saleh al-
Ahmar, and his nephew Tariq, who commanded the presidential
guard, have refused to step aside. Feierstein said the
international community might take steps against members of the
former regime if Hadi’s directives aren’t implemented.  “We would consider any idea or step that might help
address this issue, and everything is on the table,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeran Wittenstein at 
 jwittenstei1@bloomberg.net  