-- 
‘Green Lantern’ Is Top Film With $53.2 Million in Receipts

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-06-20T22:05:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/-green-lantern-is-no-1-film-with-52-7-million-in-receipts.html
The 3-D superhero film “Green
Lantern,” based on the D.C. Comics character, was the top film
at U.S. and Canadian theaters this past weekend, opening with
$53.2 million in ticket sales for  Warner Bros .  The Jim Carrey comedy “Mr. Popper’s Penguins,” was third
in its debut, taking in $18.4 million for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth
Century Fox, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in
an e-mailed statement.  Warner Bros., a unit of  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , is trying to
develop new movie franchises from its D.C. Comics unit as the
lucrative “Harry Potter” series nears its end with the last
film in the series opening on July 15. “Green Lantern”
received mostly bad reviews and missed the $61 million estimate
of BoxOfficeGuru.com editor Gitesh Pandya.  “The opening day was pretty good for this film, but the
bad word of mouth spread very quickly, and that affected
Saturday, which was down more than your typical superhero
movie,” Pandya said. The movie had $21.6 million in Friday
sales and $16.8 million on Saturday.  “ Green Lantern ” stars  Ryan Reynolds  as a self-indulgent
test pilot, Hal Jordan, who is recruited to join a force of
intergalactic superheroes dedicated to battling evil forces. In
order to harness the power that comes with his new calling, he
must first learn to master himself. Blake Lively and Peter Sarsgaard co-star.  ‘Mr. Popper’s Penguins’  The film is based on the comic book series introduced in
1940. Characters other than Jordan, introduced in 1959, have
served as the series protagonists over the decades, according to
the Web site  Collectors Weekly.  Of 146 reviews compiled on the
website  Rottentomatoes.com  as of June 17, 112 were negative.  Finishing second was “Super 8,” the science-fiction
thriller from  J.J. Abrams  and  Steven Spielberg . The film, with
sales of $21.5 million in its second weekend, dropped from first
place. It’s taken in $73 million since its June 10 release.  “Super 8” tells the story of a group of teens who stumble
onto a dangerous government secret while filming an amateur
movie. The film stars  Elle Fanning , sister of Dakota Fanning,
and Joel Courtney.  “Mr. Popper’s Penguins,” a PG-rated modern twist on a
1938 children’s book of the same title, stars Carrey as a
unhappy businessman who inherits six penguins that turn his life
around. The $18.4 million opening was better than expected,
Hollywood.com Box-Office said.  ‘Cars 2’  “X-Men: First Class,” News Corp.’s fifth film about
mutants with super powers, and starring  James McAvoy  and  Michael
Fassbender , dropped to fourth place from second with $11.9
million.  “The Hangover: Part II,” Warner Bros.’ raunchy, R-rated
comedy, fell to fifth from third with $10.1 million. The film, a
follow-up to the 2009 hit that tallied $467.5 million for Warner
Bros., has taken in $233.1 million in U.S. and Canadian theaters
since its May 26 opening.  Movies opening next week include “Cars 2,” a sequel to
the 2006 hit from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Pixar. The first film cost
about $120 million to make and earned $462 million worldwide.
 Sony Corp. (6758)  will release the comedy “Bad Teacher,” starring
 Cameron Diaz  and  Justin Timberlake .  “Next weekend is all about ‘Cars 2,’” Pandya said.
“Pixar is the only bulletproof brand left in Hollywood, and
this one is guaranteed to have a large opening. It’s in 3-D, and
is a sequel with a built-in audience, so that promises some big
numbers.”  Revenue for the top 12 films this past weekend fell 23
percent to $147.2 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com
said. Domestic box-office sales this year have declined 7.6
percent to $4.65 billion. Attendance is down 9 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for June
17 through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  