-- 
Aborting Girls Leaves Too Many Men, Not Enough Brides: Review

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-06-19T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/aborting-girls-leaves-too-many-men-not-enough-brides-review.html
Death, taxes and a ratio of 105 boys
born for every 100 girls are some of the certainties that have
kept societies functioning smoothly for centuries.  The historical rate of 105 among all countries is the
outcome of evolutionary tweaking. Since more boys than girls die
young, nature has found this way to create a balanced number of
grown men and women.  But today, in  China ,  India  and elsewhere, a preference for
boys and the practice of sex-selective abortions have played
havoc with that balance. China has 113 boys born for every 100
girls, India and  Vietnam  are at 112, and Taiwan is at 108,
according to data compiled by the U.S. Central Intelligence
Agency’s World Factbook.  As a result, more than 160 million women are missing from
the Asian population. And as the young lads born in place of
girls mature, generations of men won’t find mates, fueling
problems from violence to bride trafficking to health
afflictions, according to  Mara Hvistendahl , author of
“ Unnatural Selection: Choosing Boys Over Girls, and the
Consequences of a World Full of Men .”  Hvistendahl’s provocative, wide-ranging book describes how
the decision to choose a child’s sex led to this unholy state.  The existence of these “surplus men” isn’t news. What
Hvistendahl, a Beijing-based reporter for  Science  magazine,
presents is a thoughtful, smartly researched overview of medical
developments, policymaking and cultural trends that combined to
upset the global sex ratio. Interviews with doctors,
demographers and the author of 1968 bestseller “The Population
Bomb” add engaging first-person accounts.  Population Control  Hvistendahl lays much of the blame for current problems on
the brew of reproductive technologies and population control
activism in the 1960s and ‘70s that drove policy makers in poor
countries, especially in  Asia , to curb their birth rates by any
means to secure aid dollars from the U.S. and  Europe .  Western groups such as the United Nations Population Fund,
International Planned Parenthood Federation and the  World Bank 
indirectly fostered sex-selective abortions or looked the other
way, she says.  The availability of ultrasound -- which lets a pregnant
woman easily learn the sex of her child -- together with
government efforts to limit a couple’s offspring pushed women to
avoid multiple births in pursuit of a son. Couples who preferred
boys for cultural or financial reasons could get them.  “Development was not supposed to look like this,”
Hvistendahl writes. “For as long as they have speculated about
the status of women, social scientists have taken for granted
that women’s position improves as countries get richer.”  ‘Large-Scale Ruination’  Hvistendahl criticizes women’s reproductive organizations
for not lobbying against sex-selective abortions because doing
so potentially muddies the message that women’s right to control
their bodies shouldn’t be abridged in any way. She recognizes
the conflict while lambasting their decision to ignore an issue
that could lead to “large-scale ruination” for both sexes.  Policy makers in China and  South Korea , worried about the
future “dearth of brides” rather than the disappearance of
tens of millions of girls, have reversed course and are now at
pains to encourage the birth of girls. Some of the same
demographers who once sought ways to curb  population growth  have
been tapped to bolster the demand for daughters their earlier
efforts helped to weaken, Hvistendahl reports.  In the last chapter, Hvistendahl shifts her attention to a
fertility clinic in  Los Angeles  and the debate over “designer
babies,” leaving little doubt that the use and abuse of
reproductive technology is thriving in the land that delivered
sex-selection capabilities to Asian nations in the first place.  “Unnatural Selection” is published by PublicAffairs (314
pages, $26.99). To buy this book in North America click  here .  (Nina Mehta writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 