-- 
Taliban-U.S. Talks Are Preliminary: Gates

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-19T15:51:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/taliban-u-s-talks-very-preliminary-defense-chief-gates-says.html
Talks between U.S. officials and
Taliban guerrillas in  Afghanistan  are “very preliminary,”
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said.  The U.S. State Department has been carrying out the talks
on the part of the U.S. and undisclosed other countries for a
few weeks, Gates said on  CNN ’s “State of the Union” program
broadcast today. Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  said yesterday
that there have been discussions with member of the Taliban who
accept Afghanistan’s constitution, corroborating recent reports
of a  peace process .  Karzai said his government isn’t taking part in the talks.
The Taliban militia ruled Afghanistan, harboring the al-Qaeda
terrorist network, before being ousted by a U.S.-led invasion
after the Sept. 11 attacks.  “I would say these contacts are very preliminary at this
point,” Gates said. “Real reconciliation talks are not likely
to be able to make any substantive headway until at least this
winter. I think that the Taliban have to feel themselves under
military pressure, and begin to believe that they can’t win
before they’re willing to have a serious conversation.”  President  Barack Obama  has pledged to fully transfer
security duties to the Afghan government by 2014, with the first
troop reductions due to be announced next month.  Political Outcome  “We’ve all said all along that a political outcome is the
way most of these wars end,” Gates said on CNN. “The question
is when and if they’re ready to talk seriously about meeting the
redlines that President Karzai, and that the coalition have laid
down, including totally disavowing al Qaeda.”  Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican and ranking
member of the Senate Armed Forces committee, said he believes
that members of Congress will support a “modest withdrawal” of
5,000 to 10,000 troops from Afghanistan in the coming months.
Waiting until the middle of next year to announce a massive
withdrawal would help Obama before the presidential election,
McCain said today on ABC’s “This Week” program.  The strained U.S. relationship with neighboring  Pakistan 
after al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was found hiding there
last month is “probably the most frustrating aspect” of
efforts to establish order in Afghanistan, McCain said.  ‘Governments Lie’  “Most governments lie to each other,” Gates said on CNN.
“That’s the way business gets done.”  Pakistanis need to believe that the U.S. is committed to
securing the region if they are going to rein in militant groups
on their side of the border, McCain said.  “If they think we’re willing to see it through with them,
I think it’s much more likely we’ll get their cooperation,”
McCain said on ABC.  Gates said in Libya, Muammar Qaddafi’s troops are beginning
to weaken and he will eventually be taken out of power, possibly
by being killed. The U.S. will continue to support the NATO-led
mission in  Libya  until that happens, Gates said in interviews on
CNN and the “Fox News Sunday” program.  “The allies are prepared to sustain this,” he said on
CNN. “I think this is going to end okay. Qaddafi will
eventually fail.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, is
challenging Obama’s use of U.S. troops without Congressional
authorization. Boehner has said the House will look at options
to force Obama’s hand, including cutting off funding for the
operation or blocking unrelated White House priorities.  “Cutting off funding in the middle of a military operation
when we have people engaged is always a mistake,” Gates said
today on “Fox News Sunday.’  ‘‘War weariness’’ may be leading Republicans to place
partisan politics over national security, McCain said.  ‘‘If Qaddafi remains in power, it could have profound
consequences,’’ McCain said on ABC. ‘‘There’s always been an
isolation strain in the  Republican Party . But now it seems to
have moved more center stage.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 