-- 
U.S. Confirms Preliminary Afghan Taliban Talks, Karzai Criticizes Motives

-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t   a n d   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 
2011-06-20T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/taliban-u-s-talks-are-preliminary-gates-says-karzai-criticizes-motives.html
The U.S. has made “very
preliminary” contacts with Afghan Taliban guerrillas, Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  said, after  Afghanistan ’s president said
he is looking to Pakistan to mediate peace talks.  President  Hamid Karzai ’s speech, and a reaction yesterday
from U.S. Ambassador  Karl Eikenberry , illustrated again recent
tensions between the U.S. and the Afghan leader whose government
it is supporting.  After Karzai criticized the U.S. as an occupying force
pursuing its own interests, Eikenberry told students in the
western city of Herat that “hurtful and inappropriate”
comments by “some of your leaders” undermine support in the
U.S. for its aid and military role in Afghanistan.  Karzai’s speech shows that he “has lost hope over
America’s ability to either defeat the Taliban or bring them to
some kind of agreement,” said Waheed Mujda, a political analyst
at the Kabul Center for Strategic Studies, an independent think
tank in Kabul.  With U.S. congressional leaders such as Senator  Richard Lugar , the top Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, pressing President  Barack Obama  to withdraw a
substantial number of troops next month at the start of a
promised drawdown, “Karzai is seriously concerned that the U.S.
is pulling out of the conflict and so he is leaning toward
working with Pakistan instead on peace negotiations,” Mujda
said.  Obama has vowed to end the U.S. combat role in Afghanistan
by 2014, handing over security duties to Afghan forces that the
U.S. is training and equipping.  ‘Under Their Feet’  Karzai, who has praised and criticized the international
military force in Afghanistan, told a youth conference in Kabul
June 18 that the U.S.-led troops “are here for their own
national interests.” Repeating his criticism of U.S. military
tactics that have caused civilian casualties, he said foreign
troops “put our lives under their feet and dishonor the
people.”  While U.S. officials often decline to comment on Karzai’s
criticisms of the American presence, Eikenberry responded,
without naming Karzai.  “When Americans who are serving in your country at great
cost in terms of our lives and treasures, hear themselves
compared with occupiers, told that they are only here to advance
their own narrow interests and likened to the brutal enemies of
the Afghan people, my people in turn are filled with confusion
and they grow weary of our effort here,” Eikenberry said.  Military Pressure  While State Department officials and envoys from other
countries have met Taliban representatives in recent weeks,
“real reconciliation talks are not likely to be able to make
any substantive headway until at least this winter,” Gates said
on CNN’s “State of the Union” program. “I think that the
Taliban have to feel themselves under military pressure, and
begin to believe that they can’t win before they’re willing to
have a serious conversation,” he said.  “We’ve all said all along that a political outcome is the
way most of these war’s end,” Gates said on the CNN program,
broadcast yesterday. “The question is when and if they’re ready
to talk seriously about meeting the redlines that President
Karzai, and that the coalition have laid down, including totally
disavowing al-Qaeda.”  Pakistan ’s Importance  In disclosing the U.S.-Taliban talks, Karzai said his
government isn’t involved. While he described the U.S.
initiative as positive, he cited neighboring Pakistan as the key
interlocutor with the guerrillas. “Getting Pakistan’s help in
peace talks is very important for us,” he said.  Pakistan’s military has backed the Afghan Taliban as a
proxy force, according to analysts such as Pakistani author
Ahmed Rashid and U.S. officials such as Admiral Mike Mullen,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Karzai has criticized
Pakistan’s role in Afghanistan, saying it supports the Taliban
in an effort to dominate his country.  Mujda and other analysts say it is unclear what political
concessions from Afghanistan the Pakistani military might demand
in exchange for pushing the Taliban into a peace deal.  Last week, Karzai visited Pakistan for talks with its
leaders. He and Pakistani Prime Minister Yusuf Raze Giyani
joined the first meeting of an Afghan-Pakistani commission that
will help work for reconciliation. Giyani said then that
Pakistan supports a reconciliation process that must be
“Afghan-owned and Afghan-led.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net .
Eltaf Najafizada at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ; 