-- 
Ascom, Citadel, Maridive, Suez Cement: Egypt Equity Preview

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-06-19T07:33:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/ascom-citadel-maridive-suez-cement-egypt-equity-preview.html
The following companies may be
active in  Egypt ’s stock market. Symbols are in parentheses and
prices are from the last close.  The benchmark EGX 30 Index declined 0.3 percent to 5,541.64
in Cairo.  Asec Co. for Mining (ASCM EY): The unit of private equity
firm Citadel Capital SAE, also known as Ascom, posted a first-
quarter loss of 17.8 million Egyptian pounds ($3 million) after
a 6.49 million-pound profit a year-earlier. The shares rose 0.8
percent to 11.98 pounds.  Citadel Capital SAE (CCAP EY): Abraaj Capital Ltd., a
Dubai-based private-equity firm, may hire Morgan Stanley as an
adviser on the planned acquisition of a stake in the Egyptian
private-equity company, two people familiar with the situation
said June 16.  Citadel Capital Partners, the main shareholder in Citadel
Capital, may hire Citigroup Inc. to advise on the possible sale,
the two people said, speaking on condition of anonymity because
the talks are private. One person said Abraaj is seeking a
controlling stake in Citadel. The shares lost 1.3 percent to
6.08 pounds.  Morgan Stanley officials weren’t immediately available to
comment. Officials from Citigroup and Citadel Capital declined
to comment. None of the officials would be identified, citing
internal policy.  Maridive & Oil Services SAE (MOIL)  : The Cairo-based
marine and oil-support-service company will receive five vessels
before the end of this year costing $100 million,  Al Alam Al
Youm  reported, citing Chief Financial Officer Emad Fawzi. The
shares fell 1.6 percent to $3.62.  Remco for Touristic Villages (RTVC EY) The Egyptian resorts
developer had a first-quarter loss of 30.4 million Egyptian
pounds after a 49.7 million-pound profit a year-earlier. The
shares were unchanged at 3.19 pounds.  Suez Cement (SUCE)  : Egypt’s biggest producer of the
building material was cut to “sell” from “neutral” and had
its 12-month share-price estimate set at 32 pounds at Cairo-
based investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. The shares
retreated 0.3 percent to 39.87 pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Ahmed A Namatalla} in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  