-- 
Audi Aim to Unseat BMW as Luxury No. 1 Enhanced by Indoor Test Track: Cars

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-06-19T22:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/audi-aim-to-unseat-bmw-with-indoor-track.html
Audi AG (NSU)  will spend more than 10
million euros ($14.3 million) on an indoor test track at this
year’s Frankfurt show to outshine BMW and Mercedes-Benz as
rivalry among the three biggest luxury carmakers intensifies.  Audi, which had previously showcased its models as part of
the  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  group’s display, is investing more than ever
to have its own pavilion. The biannual Frankfurt International
Motor Show, Europe’s biggest, runs from Sept. 15 to Sept. 25.  Ingolstadt, Germany-based Audi, which sold 1.09 million
cars last year, has pledged to unseat  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW)  as the world’s largest maker of luxury cars by 2015.  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes is also planning a display with a roadway at the
show. Both are following BMW, which was the first to have a
track to show its cars in action at the  Frankfurt  event in 2009.  “Car shows are the ultimate platform for manufacturers to
compete with each other, especially in the luxury sector,”
Wolfgang Meinig, head of the Bamberg, Germany-based FAW Research
Center for Automobile Industry. “Audi is taking this battle to
another level. They’re breaking away from VW group presentations
to take BMW and Mercedes head on.”  Audi’s curvy temporary exhibition hall for Frankfurt
measures 100 meters (328 feet) long, 70 meters wide and 12
meters high. Integrated into the building is a 400-meter long
track that loops into the interior and is partially visible from
outside the building. About 30 models will be on display, and
visitors can ride in about a dozen vehicles, including race
cars, that will circle the hall.  ‘Wow Effect’  “We’ll make a strong statement,” Audi Chief Executive
Officer Rupert Stadler said in Frankfurt last week. “It’ll be
surprising, emotional, architecturally great, with a real wow
effect.”  Audi’s growth has helped boost VW’s share price. The stock
has risen 12 percent this year, making it the best performer on
the eight-member Bloomberg  Europe  Autos Index. BMW has gained
8.7 percent and Daimler has dropped 6.8 percent in the period.  Manufacturers of luxury cars have to work harder to make
their brands alluring to justify the price tags. Mercedes
sponsors fashion shows in  New York  and Berlin and enlisted hip
hop artist Rev Run of Run-D.M.C. this year as part of a Twitter
promotion tied to its first Super Bowl commercial. Audi threw a
party last year for the U.S. television Emmy awards as part of a
strategy to woo Hollywood. BMW supports art fairs in  Basel ,
 London  and  Hong Kong  and partnered with Chef  Thomas Keller .  Museums, Galleries  The German automakers have also been building elaborate
permanent showcases for themselves. Porsche SE opened an all-
white 100 million-euro museum in 2009, following Mercedes’s
spiraling gallery in 2006. BMW boasts that its 250 million-euro
museum and customer delivery center has become Munich’s top
tourist attraction since its completion in 2007.  Audi will start construction on its Frankfurt pavilion July
1 and will finish in time to host a conference a few days ahead
of the show. The project, which was developed with Munich
architecture and design firm Schmidhuber + Partner, won’t be
rebuilt in its entirety after being dismantled following the
Frankfurt Book Fair in October.  “The point is to surprise our customers and you couldn’t
have the same effect a second time,” said Bernhard Neumann,
head of event marketing at Audi. “The building is an expression
of dynamism, lightness and elegance. There’s hardly a single
right angle.”  BMW kicked off the track trend at the last Frankfurt car
show in 2009, when it installed a roadway around the inside of
its hall. The car show, which has been held since 1897, has
particular importance for high-end car makers, because BMW,
Audi, Mercedes and Porsche are all based within 400 kilometers
(249 miles) of the fairgrounds.  Mercedes Test Drive  “The Frankfurt exhibition is one of the key shows
worldwide,” said Willi Diez, head of the Nuertingen, Germany-
based Institute for Automobile Industry, a state-funded think
tank. “It’s a must for the top German luxury makers to be on a
level playing field.”  Mercedes also wants to make a big impact after being
overtaken by Audi as the second-largest market of  luxury
vehicles  this year.  The Stuttgart, Germany-based automaker will have a track
outside its exhibition space at the fairgrounds’ century-old
Festhalle building. The company will allow visitors to test
drive electric and fuel cell vehicles themselves, a person
familiar with the company’s plans said.  Mercedes’s May sales rose 7.3 percent, less than half the
19 percent growth for BMW and Audi. In the first quarter,
Mercedes’s operating margin was 9.3 percent of sales, compared
with Audi’s 10.6 percent and BMW’s 11.9 percent.  ‘Battlegrounds’  The Stuttgart-based automaker will have more space for
showing new models such as the revamped B-Class compact and M-
Class sport-utility vehicle with the absence of Chrysler, which
had previously exhibited in the same hall before pulling out at
short notice in 2009. Daimler’s Smart city-car brand will occupy
space attached to the Festhalle, which was commissioned under
Kaiser Wilhelm II and has space for 13,500 visitors.  “The motor shows are like battlegrounds, where we all meet
and vie for media attention,” said Christoph Horn, head of
product communication at Mercedes-Benz. “They’re not just
traditional trade shows anymore. We’re all spending more because
you need to get your share of exposure.”  BMW, which previously displayed at the same position that
Audi is now taking up, is ready to face the stiffer competition,
said Marcel Kranz, BMW’s manager of European trade shows and
exhibitions.  The company typically spends 14 to 16 months
preparing for major car shows like the one in Frankfurt.  “We see motor shows as the ‘pentathlon’ of communication,
because it’s all there: architecture, big-scale billboards,
products, motion and movies,” said Kranz. “We take on the
challenge to keep up” the level of exposure achieved with the
2009 show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 