-- 
Australian, N.Z. Dollars Weaken as Greek Debt Concern Reduces Yield Demand

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-06-20T06:21:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/australian-new-zealand-dollars-decline-as-greek-debt-concern-lingers.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars fell against all the other major currencies as concern
the Greek government will default on its debt sapped demand for
higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie dropped for a fourth day versus the
yen as commodity prices declined, hurting the outlook for the
nation’s exports. European governments on the weekend failed to
agree on releasing a loan payment to spare Greece from default,
increasing pressure on Prime Minister  George Papandreou  to first
deliver budget cuts in the face of domestic opposition.  “The Aussie outlook in the next few weeks, or even few
months, doesn’t look that great,” said  Imre Speizer , a
strategist in Auckland at Westpac Banking Corp, Australia’s
second-largest lender. “Global  risk aversion  remains high.
That’s mainly because the European situation is still quite
unstable.”  Australia’s dollar fell to $1.0540 as of 4:14 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0623 in  New York  last week, extending its loss in
the past month to 1.1 percent. The so-called Aussie declined 0.6
percent to 84.55 yen. New Zealand’s dollar slipped 0.8 percent
to 80.65 U.S. cents, and slid 0.5 percent to 64.70 yen.  Crude oil fell as much as 1.7 percent in afterhours trading
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and copper on the London
Metal Exchange dropped as much as 1.3 percent.  Euro-area finance ministers pushed Greece to pass laws to
cut the deficit and sell state assets. The Greek government
needs parliamentary approval for a 78 billion-euro ($111
billion) program of budget cuts to ensure the payment of a fifth
loan under last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout plan.  Service Expansion  New Zealand’s dollar weakened even after reports showed
services industry expanded at a faster pace in May and
manufacturing volume increased.  The performance of services index climbed to 52.8 from 52.6
in April, Bank of New Zealand Ltd. and Business New Zealand, an
employer group, said in an e-mailed statement. A reading above
50 indicates an expansion. Manufacturing output rose 1.9 percent
in the first quarter after a 3.7 percent increase the previous
period,  Statistics New Zealand  said.  The terms of trade, which are at a 39-year high, and demand
for exports from Asia and Australia are reasons to be positive
about New Zealand’s economic future, Finance Minister Bill English said in a video statement released today.  “The New Zealand economy remains resilient,” supporting
the kiwi, said Kengo Suzuki, manager of the foreign bond
department in Tokyo at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s
third-largest listed bank.  RBA Minutes  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will tomorrow release minutes
of its June 7 meeting, at which policy makers left its benchmark
interest rate at 4.75 percent for sixth meeting. Central bank
Governor  Glenn Stevens  reiterated June 15 the RBA needs to raise
 interest rates  “at some stage.”  “The RBA minutes this Tuesday will be more important than
usual given the conflicting views coming from RBA officers and
non-executive Board members,” Barclays Plc strategists
including London-based Sara Yates wrote in a note to clients.
“There is little priced in by the market in terms of rate hikes
this year, so a tone in the minutes less hawkish than the
rhetoric of RBA officers would have only a small negative impact
on the Australian dollar.”  Ten-year Australian bond futures for June delivery rose
0.06 to 94.94 on the  Sydney Futures Exchange . The implied yield
fell five basis points to 5.07 percent.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, was little changed at 3.31 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 