-- 
Lawmakers Making Progress in Debt-Limit Negotiations, Senator Durbin Says

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-06-20T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/lawmakers-are-making-progress-in-debt-ceiling-talks-durbin-says.html
Lawmakers are making progress in
their negotiations on reducing the deficit and increasing
borrowing limits, a top Senate Democrat said.  “Progress is being made,” Senator  Dick Durbin  of
 Illinois , the second-ranking Senate Democrat, said yesterday on
NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “We shouldn’t wait until high
noon” to raise the debt ceiling because “it will mean higher
 interest rates  if we don’t.”  Vice President  Joe Biden ’s bipartisan deficit-reduction
group has been holding meetings since May 5 to reach a
compromise to clear the way for a vote in Congress to raise the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  Republicans are demanding trillions of dollars in budget
savings as a condition of support for expanding the debt limit.
Democrats are resisting any changes to Medicare, the long-term
driver of the debt. Republicans are balking at tax increases.  “No one on the Republican side will support” higher
taxes,  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, said
on “Meet the Press.”  The government may initially adopt a shorter-term solution,
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said on CBS’s “Face the
Nation” program yesterday.  “If we can’t do something really significant about the
debt ceiling, then we’ll probably end up with a very short-term
proposal over a few months, and we’ll be back having the same
discussion in the fall,” said McConnell, a Kentucky Republican.  Defense Spending  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said he recognizes the
budget talks will lead to “some cuts in things that I care
about,” and he hopes that negotiators take the U.S.’s global
interests into account.  “We have interests, we have allies, we have partners,” he
said on CNN’s “State of The Union.” Gates said he wants to
avoid across-the-board cuts similar to what the government did
in the 1970s and 1990s. “Everything becomes mediocre” when
that happens, he said.  Biden and the six House and Senate lawmakers have begun
meeting more frequently to iron out a deal before an Aug. 2
deadline when the Treasury Department projects the government
risks defaulting on its obligations. The group plans to meet as
many as four times this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  