-- 
Banks Have Record $1.45 Trillion to Buy Bonds on Savings

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   S a b u r o   F u n a b i k i
-- 
2011-06-20T18:04:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/banks-holding-record-1-45-trillion-to-buy-treasuries-as-savings-top-loans.html
Japan ’s biggest bond investors see
increasing parallels between the nation’s government debt market
and Treasuries, indicating that historically low yields in the
U.S. have room to fall.  Just as in Japan, deposits at U.S. banks exceed loans,
reaching a record $1.45 trillion last month, Federal Reserve
data show. As recently as 2008, there were more loans than
deposits. The gap is also at an all-time high in Japan, where
banks use the money to buy bonds, helping keep yields the lowest
in the world even though the country has more debt outstanding
than America and a lower  credit rating .  While none of the more than 40 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg expect the U.S. will see two decades of stagnation
like Japan, they are paring growth estimates as unemployment
remains above 9 percent and the housing market struggles to
recover. The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for
U.S. growth in 2011 for the second time in two months on June
17, bolstering the appeal of fixed-income assets.  “I’ve seen what happened in Japan, so when looking at the
U.S. now, I think, ‘Ah, the same thing is going on,’” said
Akira Takei, the Tokyo-based general manager of the
international fixed-income investment department at Mizuho Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $41 billion.  Savings Increase  In the decade before credit markets seized up in 2008, U.S.
deposits exceeded loans by an average of about $100 billion, Fed
data show. The worst recession since the 1930s led consumers to
trim household debt to $13.3 trillion from the peak of $13.9
trillion in 2008, and increase savings to 4.9 percent of incomes
from 1.7 percent in 2007, Fed and government data show.  Banks pared lending amid more than $2 trillion in losses
and writedowns, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Instead
of making loans, financial institutions have put more cash into
Treasuries and government-related debt, boosting holdings to
$1.68 trillion from $1.08 trillion in early 2008, Fed data show.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries -- the benchmark for
everything from corporate bonds to  mortgage rates  -- have fallen
to less than 3 percent from the average of 6.79 percent over the
past 30 years even though the amount of marketable  U.S.
government debt  outstanding has risen to $9.26 trillion from
$4.34 trillion in 2007, Treasury Department data show.  Lending Drop  Ten-year yields fell 2.5 basis points, or 0.025 percentage
point, last week to 2.94 percent in New York, the fifth straight
weekly decline, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
price of the 3.125 percent security due in May 2021 rose 7/32,
or $2.19 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 17/32.  Loans dropped and savings rose in Japan, too. Lending has
declined 27 percent from the peak in March 1996, while bank
holdings of government debt surged more than fivefold to a
record 158.8 trillion yen ($1.98 trillion) in April, according
to the  Bank of Japan . The difference in deposits and loans,
known domestically as the yotai gap, is 165 trillion yen, or
more than  Spain ’s annual economic output.  Yields on Japanese bonds due in 10 years dropped to 1.115
percent last week from 3.46 percent in 1996 and have remained at
about 2 percent or lower since 2000. U.S. 10-year yields rose
one basis point to 2.95 percent at 2:01 p.m. in New York, while
similar maturity Japanese yields were little changed at 1.13
percent.  Rates Outlook  The U.S. and Japan are “beginning to look similar because
of the fact that we’ve had very low  interest rates  for a very
long time now” Charles Comiskey, the head of Treasury trading
at Bank of Nova Scotia in  New York , said in an interview. “This
is going to be 10 years of pain to de-lever ourselves from the
mess of a debt-ridden society that we’ve become.”  Futures traded on the Chicago Board of Exchange indicated
in January that the Fed would raise its target rate for
overnight loans between banks from a record low of zero to 0.25
percent in 2011. After reports this month showed that the
jobless rate rose back above 9 percent,  consumer confidence 
fell, the housing market weakened and manufacturing slowed,
traders now see no increase until late 2012 at the earliest.  The IMF said the  U.S. economy  will grow 2.5 percent this
year and 2.7 percent in 2012, down from the 2.8 percent and 2.9
percent projected in April.  Further declines in Treasury yields may be limited because
the inflation rate is higher than in Japan, where consumer price
changes have been mostly negative since 2000.  U.S. prices rose 3.6 percent in May from a year earlier,
according to the Labor Department. That means 10-year Treasuries
yield 62 basis points less than the inflation rate. So-called
real yields in Japan, where consumer prices rose 0.3 percent in
April, are a positive 82 basis points.  Pimco Avoids  “Treasury bonds at the current valuation would likely
disappoint long-term investors with low or even negative real
returns,” Tomoya Masanao, the head of portfolio management for
Japan at Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote in an e-mail
to Bloomberg News. “The global economy seems more tilted to
inflation than deflation over the next three to five years.”  Pimco, based in  Newport Beach ,  California , had $1.28
trillion under management as of March 31, including the world’s
biggest bond fund, the Total Return Fund.  Bill Gross , the firm’s
co-chief investment officer, has said mortgages, corporate bonds
and sovereign debt of nations such as Canada are more
attractive.  The median estimate of more than 50 economists and
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg is for 10-year Treasury yields
to rise to 4 percent over the next 12 months.  Weak Housing Market  Those forecasts fail to take into account the weak U.S.
housing market, which makes up the bulk of Americans’ net worth,
according to Akio Kato, the team leader for Japanese debt in
 Tokyo  at Kokusai Asset Management Co., which runs the $31.1
billion Global Sovereign Open fund.  “U.S. home prices won’t rebound unless  household debt ” is
reduced, Kato said. “As long as the situation remains the same,
bank lending won’t grow. U.S. banks will tighten criteria for
borrowers.”  House prices  in 20 U.S. cities are 14 percent below the
average of the past decade, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values. The gauge dropped in March to the
lowest level since 2003. Japan’s land prices are still at less
than half the level of two decades ago.  Japan has endured two decades of economic stagnation with
nominal gross domestic product about the same as it was in 1991.
Government debt is projected to reach 219 percent of GDP next
year, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
estimates. That compares with about 59 percent in the U.S.,
government data show.  BOJ Nullified  The economy has struggled to recover even though the BOJ
buys  government securities  monthly to lower borrowing costs and
stimulate the economy. The efforts have been nullified as banks
use BOJ funds to buy bonds rather than lend.  “With no prospects for Japan’s economic growth, funds from
the widening loan-deposit gap flow to bonds rather than
stocks,” said  Katsutoshi Inadome , a strategist in Tokyo at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., a unit of the
nation’s largest listed-bank.  That’s similar to the U.S., where economists are cutting
growth forecasts even though the Fed has pumped almost $600
billion into the financial system since November by purchasing
Treasuries under a policy known as quantitative easing. The
program is due to end this week.  Mizuho’s Takei said there is a “very high chance” that
lenders will continue to funnel deposits to the  bond market ,
helping to push Treasury 10-year yields toward 2.4 percent
within a few months. Takei said he favors longer-maturity
securities.  “Eventually, yields in Japan and the U.S. will converge,”
said Mizuho’s Takei. “This is just the beginning.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Saburo Funabiki in Tokyo at 
 sfunabiki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  