-- 
German Stocks Retreat as EU Leaders Fail to Agree on Greek Loan

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-06-20T16:15:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/basf-fraport-hochtief-siemens-german-equity-market-preview.html
German stocks retreated as
governments failed to agree on releasing a loan payment to spare
 Greece  from default.  EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , the country’s biggest utilities, fell at
least 1 percent.  Drillisch AG (DRI)  jumped the most since Feb. 7 after
Financial Times Deutschland reported the mobile phone equipment
wholesaler is in "casual talks" with  Freenet AG. (FNTN)   The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 0.2 percent to 7,150.21 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The benchmark has fallen 5 percent
from this year’s high on May 2 as investors speculated that the
U.S. economic recovery is slowing and that Greece will fail to
repay all of its debt. The broader HDAX Index declined 0.3
percent today.  “It’s difficult to see what the solution is for Greece if
European leaders can’t agree,” said  Robert Halver , head of
research at Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt. “If we cannot define a
perspective for Greece, we have to think about plan B, which
might be Greece exiting the  euro zone . We can expect volatility
in the coming weeks. Nobody wants to accept higher risk exposure
ahead of summer.”  On the eve of a confidence vote that may bring down Prime
Minister  George Papandreou ’s government, euro-area finance
ministers pushed Greece to pass laws to cut the deficit and sell
state assets. They left open whether the country will get the
full 12 billion euros ($17.2 billion) promised for July as part
of last year’s 110 billion-euro lifeline.  Forceful Reminder  “We forcefully reminded the Greek government that by the
end of this month they have to see to it that we are all
convinced that all the commitments they made are fulfilled,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters
early today after chairing a euro-crisis meeting in his country.  The seven-hour finance ministers’ meeting coincided with
the start of a three-day Greek parliamentary debate in  Athens 
over a confidence vote in a new cabinet at what Papandreou
called a “critical crossroads.” Papandreou has 155 seats in
the 300-seat parliament.  Stocks pared some of their losses after Juncker, who leads
the group of euro-area finance ministers, said he doesn’t
believe Italy is in danger amid the euro area’s debt crisis.
Private investors will be present in any second rescue package
for Greece, Juncker told reporters in Luxembourg today, though
he said he doesn’t know if they’ll be “enthusiastic.”  EON slipped 1 percent to 19.06 euros, while RWE declined
1.6 percent to 37.33 euros. German electricity for delivery next
year fell to its lowest in three weeks as fuel prices declined,
signaling lower costs for power stations in  Europe ’s biggest
market.  Drillisch jumped 5.6 percent to 7.82 euros after Financial
Times Deutschland cited Freenet Chief Executive Officer
Christoph Vilanek as saying there are “casual talks” between
his company and Drillisch. Freenet isn’t in “formal talks” and
there is no due diligence with Drillisch, Elke Ruether, a
Freenet spokeswoman, said by telephone. Drillisch spokesman
Oliver Keil declined to comment on the report. Freenet added 1.6
percent to 9.38 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  