-- 
BHP Australia Coal Miners End Stoppages Ahead of Company Talks

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-06-19T04:25:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/bhp-australia-coal-miners-halt-stoppages-ahead-of-company-talks-on-wages.html
Workers at  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  coking
coal mines in Australia are awaiting the outcome of talks
tomorrow before deciding on action that may disrupt production
from the world’s largest exporter of the steelmaking commodity.  About 3,500 workers have taken part in six-hour rolling
stoppages at seven mines owned by  BHP Billiton Mitsubishi
Alliance  in Queensland’s Bowen Basin the past week ahead of the
meetings between unions and management on June 20 and June 21.  If the company and union officials don’t make progress in
the talks, the workers “want us to come back and give them an
update on all the reasons why and then they’ll take it from
there,” Stephen Smyth, president of the  Construction, Forestry,
Mining and Energy Union ’s mining and energy division in
Queensland, said by telephone today. “If there’s any further
action required the membership will make that decision.”  The risk of further, protracted strikes may boost coking
coal prices already driven higher by supply shortages following
floods in the state, Natalie Robertson, resources analyst at
 Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. has said. BHP
reported a 14 percent decline in production last quarter after
torrential rains from November to January inundated mines in
Queensland, Australia’s biggest exporter of the commodity.  New Deal  The CFMEU, the Australian Manufacturing Workers Union and
the Communications, Electrical and Plumbing Union are jointly
seeking a new Enterprise Agreement with BMA that seeks new wages
and conditions, as well as addressing concerns about job
security and recruitment, according to the union website.  The union, which is required to give three full working
days notice of any further action, still wants to negotiate,
said Smyth.  “Hopefully this week will be a lot more positive than it
has been,” he said.  Labor unions in Australia are stepping up demands for wage
rises and  job security  after rising commodity prices swelled
profits at mining companies including Melbourne-based BHP.
Steelmaking coal prices rose 47 percent to a record $330 a
metric ton for three-month contracts starting April 1.  Stoppages took place across three days, commencing at the
Saraji and Norwich Park mines on June 14, then the Gregory,
Crinum and Blackwater mines on June 15 and the Goonyella
Riverside and Peak Downs mines yesterday.  “BMA is strongly of the view that taking industrial action
is premature given discussions are still progressing,” BHP said
in an e-mailed statement on June 13. The company has nothing to
add to that statement, spokeswoman Kelly Quirke said yesterday.  China Demand  Almost all the coal mined at the BMA mines, with annual
capacity of 58 million tons, is shipped overseas for steel
production, BMA said on its website. BMA is equally owned by BHP
and Mitsubishi Development Pty. It directly employs more than
4,800 people, the website shows.  China ’s imports of coking coal are forecast to gain at an
average rate of 9 percent a year to reach 73 million metric tons
in 2016, according to Australian government forecasts.  India  may
triple coking coal imports within five years to meet surging
demand from steelmakers, ANZ said last month.  Exports of coking coal from Australia are forecast to rise
3 percent this year even after the floods, according to
government forecasts. They may total 163 million tons this year
compared with 159 million tons last year, the Australian Bureau
of Agricultural & Resource Economics and Sciences said in a
March report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  