-- 
Big Spenders Lift Contemporary Art Back to Peak at Basel Fair

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-06-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/big-spenders-lift-contemporary-art-back-to-peak-at-1-8-billion-basel-fair.html
The year’s biggest test so far for
contemporary art dealers, in  Switzerland , ended with galleries
saying that demand and prices have returned to 2008 levels.  Billionaires splashed out on the best of $1.8 billion works
shown at the world’s largest modern and contemporary art fair in
 Basel , which closed last night.  Mark Rothko , Maurizio Cattelan,
 Anish Kapoor  and Bridget Riley were among artists with pieces
each selling for more than $2 million.  The spree marks a return to the peak of the boom that ended
in 2008. Prices of some artists fell by as much as 50 percent
with the crisis following the Lehman Brothers collapse.  “This was the busiest Art Basel for a long time,” said
London-based collector Amir Shariat, chief executive of  Auctor
Capital Partners Ltd . “There was a lot of aspirational buying
from collectors I hadn’t seen. The market is deeper and broader
now.”  The recovery follows higher sale values at auction, an
increasing number of art fairs, and a report by management
consultant Bain & Co. that predicted an 8 percent increase in
spending on  luxury goods  in 2011. Big spenders are investing in
art to counter concerns about low  interest rates , stock prices
and weak economic growth, dealers said.  Cattelan’s 2002 sculpture of two New York policemen, “Frank
and Jamie,” priced at $3 million, was among sales by  Gagosian  at
the June 14 VIP preview, said dealers. Two examples of this
edition of four sold at auction for about $1.6 million in 2010.  $45 Million, 15 Minutes  Gagosian sold $45 million of art within the first quarter
of an hour, said two dealers with knowledge of the matter, who
declined to be named. The company, which has galleries in seven
countries, doesn’t release sales information.  A 1969 Rothko orange abstract in oils on paper mounted on
canvas marked at about $5.5 million by New York-based  L & M
Arts , was one of the confirmed sales of works priced at more
than $5 million.  The London-based  Lisson Gallery  and first-time exhibitor
 Hazlitt Holland-Hibbert  sold a gilded sculpture by Kapoor and a
1979 Riley painting “Streak 2,’’ respectively priced at 1.7
million pounds ($2.75 million) and 1.85 million pounds.  Works by younger artists with emerging reputations were
also in demand. Brussels-based  Xavier Hufkens  sold an edition of
three 2010 Thomas Houseago bronzes, “Yet to be titled (Large
Head #1)’’ for between $225,000 and $250,000. The gallery showed
a series of minimalist silver abstracts by the New York painter
Jacob Kassay, 26, in the fair’s  Art Unlimited  section.  Museum Sale  A work by the painter sold for $290,500 at  Phillips de Pury
& Co.  in New York in May. Hufkens defused talk of Kassay
becoming a speculators’ artist by selling the series for an
undisclosed price to a museum that he declined to name.  “It was important that the series be sold to an
institution,’’ Hufkens said. “Auction houses are responsible to
their shareholders. I am to my artists. The price I asked didn’t
take into consideration what happened at Phillips.’’  The Swiss-based  Art Basel  owner,  MCH Group AG (MCHN)  (MCHN), is
looking to build the fair as a global brand at a time that other
organizers are also expanding. In May, the company acquired a
majority stake in the  Hong Kong  International Art Fair. Next
year’s Asian event is scheduled for May 17-20, two weeks after
the new Frieze Art Fair in New York and six months after Art
Basel’s sister  Miami Beach  event.  Global Basel  “We feel there is enough interest to sustain Art Basels in
three regions,’’ said co-director Marc Spiegler, who would like
the fair to rival what he calls the “persistent global
marketing approach’’ of the auction houses. “These markets are
divided by 12 time zones. Next year, except for the dog days of
summer, you’re always going into or going out of an  Art Basel 
show,’’ Spiegler said in an interview.  The first Art Basel Hong Kong was scheduled for February
2011, until a clash with the Chinese New Year forced a switch to
May. Co-director Annette Schoenholzer said she is looking for a
fixed slot to accommodate the movement of Chinese New Year.  More than 50 of the exhibitors at Art Basel were showing at
last month’s Hong Kong event. Some complained of the way that
Western and Asian dealers were separated in different sections.  “The general notion is to integrate,’’ said Spiegler, who
is confident of  China ’s appetite for Western contemporary art.
“The younger generation of Asian collectors is much more used
to spending time in London, Paris and  New York .’’  Geneva-based  Galerie Krugier & Cie . offered three Picasso
oils priced at a total of $52 million. Though at least two
smaller Picasso works found buyers for undisclosed prices, the
big-ticket oils were still available as the 42nd fair ended.  Marlborough Fine Art  had still to confirm any purchases for
its tribute display of six large-scale Francis Bacon paintings,
priced at total of more than $100 million. Collectors tend to be
more comfortable spending such large sums in an auction room,
where the open competition of a salesroom inspires confidence,
rather than in the more leisurely environment of an art fair.  This year's fair attracted a record 65,000 visitors, the 
organizers said today in an e-mailed statement.  Art Basel’s main sponsor is  UBS AG. (UBSN)  The event is held at
Messe Basel, Messeplatz.  Information:  http://www.artbasel.com/go/id/ss/lang/eng/   (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in Basel, Switzerland, at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 