-- 
BJ’s Wholesale Set to Gain 20% on Bid

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-06-20T17:28:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/bj-s-wholesale-set-to-gain-20-with-3-1-billion-bid-real-m-a.html
BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. (BJ) , the
cheapest discount retailer in America, may be poised to extract
$750 million for shareholders at the expense of its private
equity bidders.  Almost five months after BJ’s board decided to explore a
possible sale,  Leonard Green  & Partners LP and  CVC Capital
Partners  offered to buy the warehouse-club operator without
saying how much they would spend, a regulatory filing last week
showed. BJ’s could ask for $53 to $57 a share, based on
valuations of comparable retailers and the price Leonard Green
agreed to pay for  99 Cents Only Stores (NDN)  in March, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  While BJ’s equity is worth less per dollar of sales than
any U.S. discount retailer, a deal could now hand its owners a
33 percent gain since the Westborough, Massachusetts-based
company put itself up for sale in February, the data show. BJ’s,
which has more cash than debt and the industry’s lowest
operating margins, is attracting private-equity bidders looking
to turn a profit by cutting costs and raising prices for food
and fuel, according to Westwood Holdings Group Inc.  “There’s potential to expand the store base, expand that
technology initiative and take margins up,” said  Joe Feldman ,
an analyst for Telsey Advisory Group LLC in New York. Private
equity firms “might see it as being under-operated. It’s kind
of suited to an LBO. You could lever this thing up,” he said.  Retail M&A  Cathy Maloney, a spokeswoman at BJ’s, declined to comment,
as did Mary Zimmerman, a spokeswoman for CVC. Michael Gennaro,
chief operating officer at Leonard Green, didn’t immediately
return a telephone call requesting comment.  BJ’s, which gets almost two-thirds of its sales from
groceries, has 190 locations mainly in the northeastern region
of the U.S. and offers discounts on everything from flat-screen
televisions to gasoline for members who pay an annual fee.  The company gained 10 percent through last week since
saying in February that its board had decided to explore
strategic options. Still, its 14 percent return in the past
three years lagged behind the 54 percent total from consumer
staples stocks in the Standard & Poor’s MidCap 400 Index, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The sale prompted Los Angeles-based Leonard Green, which
has participated in at least five retail deals in the past year
totaling about $5 billion, to bid for BJ’s with London-based CVC
Capital, its filing showed. Terms weren’t disclosed.  While the offer won’t be more than $55 a share and may not
be as high as $52 a share, DealReporter said last week, citing
two people close to the matter, BJ’s Chief Executive Officer
Laura Sen could demand more, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  The average earnings multiple of 16.6 times for comparable
discount retailers that generate at least a third of their sales
from perishable goods would value BJ’s at about $53 a share,
based on its per-share earnings of $3.17, the data show.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the largest U.S. warehouse-club
chain and BJ’s closest publicly listed competitor, trades at
almost 25 times profit.  Using the lowest takeover multiple for a discount retailer
in the past five years -- Leonard Green’s pending buyout of City
of Commerce, California-based 99 Cents -- would give BJ’s an
even higher price, the data show. The private equity firm agreed
to acquire 99 Cents for 7.86 times its earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization in the past 12 months.  ‘Lowball Bid’  At the same valuation, BJ’s equity would be worth about
$3.1 billion, or $57 a share. That’s 20 percent higher than the
warehouse chain’s closing price of $47.50 last week and more
than its market value of $2.35 billion prior to putting itself
up for sale, the data show. BJ’s retreated 3 percent to $46.06
at 1:25 p.m. today in  New York .  “You could argue that $52 is a bit of a lowball bid,”
said  David Abella , a money manager at Rochdale Investment
Management LLC in New York, which oversees $4 billion. “If you
close the gap to the Costco valuation by improving operations,
BJ’s would probably be worth in the mid-$50s.”  “That would be a price that management and the board would
probably want as a minimum because they may feel they could get
to that price on their own by improving operations themselves,”
said Abella, whose firm owns 15,000 BJ’s shares.  He said $55 to $56 would constitute a “fair bid.”  BJ’s is currently the cheapest U.S. discount retailer with
at least $500 million in market value. On a per-share basis, the
warehouse chain trades at 0.22 times its revenue of $11.2
billion in the past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
BJ’s sells for less than its rivals because it hasn’t been as
profitable, according to Abella.  Deal Rationale  The company earned 2.2 cents of operating income for each
dollar of sales, less than Issaquah, Washington-based Costco.
BJ’s 11 percent gross margin, or its ability to mark up prices
on items, was also the lowest in the industry.  BJ’s lags behind Costco and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Sam’s
Club because it doesn’t have as many locations nationwide and
carries more items, according to Telsey Advisory’s Feldman.  Costco has more than twice as many stores as BJ’s and is
located across  40 states . BJ’s is located in 15 states.  Private equity firms are targeting BJ’s because they can
boost returns by reducing expenses and use the company’s cash
flow to expand the brand beyond the Northeast, said  David Strasser , an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in New York.  BJ’s had $170 million in net cash, while the average U.S.
discount retailer had more debt than its reserves, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The company’s cash from operations also rose
to $311 million in the past 12 months, higher than any
comparable period since at least 2002, the data show.  Food and Gas  “They could improve the company by growing beyond the 15
states they are in,” said Janney’s Strasser. “That is the
biggest rationale for this deal.”  The rising costs of food and gas may also boost BJ’s
earnings as more customers join the club to take advantage of
its discounted prices, said Matt Lockridge, a  money manager  and
consumer analyst at Westwood Holdings in  Dallas , which oversees
$13.9 billion and owns 1.4 million BJ’s stock.  Food accounted for 65 percent of BJ’s sales last year,
double Costco’s total in its most recent fiscal year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. BJ’s also operated 103 gas  stations ,
according to the company’s regulatory filing.  U.S. consumer prices rose 3.6 percent last month from the
same period a year earlier, the biggest increase since October
2008, the Labor Department said this month.  “It’s very attractive right now,” said Lockridge, who
says that BJ’s may be worth at least $60 a share in a takeover.
“There definitely is store growth opportunity ahead. They’re in
a really good place right now with both food inflation and
gasoline inflation. Going private will enable them to accelerate
some investments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 