-- 
Bollywood Stars Make Indian Wine Sexy, Samant Works on Quality

-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 
2011-06-19T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/bollywood-stars-make-indian-wine-sexy-samant-works-on-quality.html
By night, Rajeev Samant parties at
Mumbai clubs with supermodels and Bollywood friends like
director Rohan Sippy. By day, he’s the restless chief executive
officer of India’s largest winemaker,  Sula Vineyards .  We’re having lunch in Tulsi, a new Indian restaurant in
 Manhattan , a quiet backdrop for someone who says a Grateful Dead
concert was one of the defining moments of his life.  The 44-year-old Samant, a windsurfer and yoga practitioner,
is wearing a cufflinked white shirt and jeans. Designer
sunglasses perch on his smooth shaved head. Bollywood, he says,
reflects -- and influences -- India’s changing view of wine.  “Until 5 years ago, if a woman drank in the movies she was
either a fallen woman or a vamp,” Samant says with a smile as
we sip his aromatic Sauvignon Blanc, one of four Sula wines
available in the U.S. “Now a glass of red in a film is a cool
accessory. It’s socially acceptable and sophisticated.”  Thanks to his friends, Sula Vineyards’ bright yellow sun
label makes appearances in Sippy’s latest, cocaine crime
thriller “Dum Maaro Dum” (2011), and Nikhil Advani’s romantic
“Salaam e Ishq: A Tribute to Love” (2007).  Despite the country’s traditions of teetotalers, whisky-
drinking, and byzantine anti-wine regulations and taxes,  India ’s
wine industry is booming.  The question on my mind is: Are Samant’s wines any good?  The fruity 2010 Sula Chenin Blanc ($11) tastes simple,
sweet and bland on its own, but works well with tangy scallops
with red pepper sauce and other spicy Tulsi goodies. I much
prefer the zingy 2010 Sauvignon Blanc ($13). A smoky, soft 2010
Shiraz ($13) is better with tandoor-grilled lamb chops than oaky
flagship 2008 Dindori Reserve Shiraz ($22).  Stanford to Oracle  The main Sula style is fruit-driven, with bright acidity
and little oak that seem to accompany Indian food best. I was
surprised, but definitely not stunned by the level of quality.  An urbanite who grew up in Mumbai, Samant studied at
 Stanford University  and worked in finance at Silicon Valley’s
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  before chucking corporate life to return home in
1993. During a wedding in Nashik, 120 miles north of Mumbai, he
was captivated by a 20-acre (8-hectare) parcel of land owned by
his father.  Samant tried farming organic mangoes there, then teakwood,
tomatoes, roses. The aha! moment came when a friend from the
U.S. West Coast asked if Samant was growing wine grapes.  By 1999, he’d enlisted California winemaker Kerry Damskey,
who’d consulted in Nashik, and planted vines, including
zinfandel cuttings from Sonoma that Samant carried to India in a
duffel bag.  “The customs officer only cared about what they cost me.
Nothing, I told him, and he waved me through,” says Samant,
chuckling.  Persian Grapes  Persian traders may have brought winemaking to India as
early as 2,500 years ago, but India’s complex state laws and
anti-alcohol bias, enshrined in the 1947 constitution thanks to
Gandhi, have restrained development of the industry. Today,
production is centered in the states of Karnataka and
Maharashtra, where the Nashik Valley boasts 35 wineries.  Viticulture in the tropics requires a few tricks. “Summer
is monsoon season, so we fool the vines into sleeping through it
by pruning before rain starts,” explains Damskey. “We prune
again when it stops. Then the grapes develop normally. We pick
from January to March.”  Key to success are the 2,000-foot altitude and average
summer peak temperatures of only 34 degrees Celsius (94
Fahrenheit).  Eco-Resort  Sula quickly expanded and now produces 450,000 cases from
1,500 acres of vines. Samant drew drinkers by opening India’s
first tasting room, then two restaurants. His annual music
festival, SulaFest, draws 3,000 fans with rock groups like Petri
Dish Project. The latest? A nearby 20-room eco-resort on a road
dotted with water buffaloes.  “At least one member of every family in the nearby village
now works for us,” Samant says.  Establishing a wine culture in India sounds like an uphill
task. For one thing, most retail stores and warehouses aren’t
air-conditioned. Yet, the Associated Chambers of Commerce and
Industry of India predicts the nation will drink 14.7 million
liters next year, more than triple 2008’s 4.6 million liters.  “We have a way to go,” says Samant. “ China  has 50 times
India’s consumption.”  The economic downturn in 2008 took a toll. Many producers,
even large ones, miscalculated, presuming they could sell big
volumes without paying attention to quality,  Subhash Arora,
president of the  Indian Wine Academy , said in an e-mail.  Boutique Vineyards  As rivals contracted, Samant grew to become the biggest and
most consistent producer. Now others are following, aiming for
higher quality. Reva Singh, publisher and editor of wine
magazine “Sommelier India,” highlighted in an e-mail several
ambitious boutique vintners, including Indo-Italian venture
Fratelli and Vintage Wines’ Reveilo, which is experimenting with
nero d’Avola and sangiovese grapes.  Nashik’s  Good Earth Winery , whose first vintage reached the
U.S. last November, is another. Among the three imported, my
favorite was the racy mineral-and-fruit 2008 Aarohi Sauvignon
Blanc ($15).  As Samant and I sip green tea, he tells me that French
Champagne house Moet & Chandon has been buying Nashik grapes for
a premium fizz to be launched in 2012.  “Within the next decade India will be a 4 million-case
market,” he says. Bollywood will help.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 