-- 
Buffett-Backed BYD to Raise $219 Million in China Share Sale

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-20T03:14:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/buffett-backed-byd-china-share-offer-raises-less-than-sought-219-million.html
     June 20 (Bloomberg) -- BYD Co., the Chinese carmaker backed
by  Warren Buffett , said it will raise 1.42 billion yuan ($219
million) in its Shenzhen, China, share sale, less than the
company originally sought.  BYD will sell 79 million shares at 18 yuan apiece, the
company said in a statement to the Shenzhen exchange yesterday.
The automaker had planned to raise as much as 2.19 billion yuan,
according to the statement.  Shenzhen-based BYD is tapping the mainland stock market to
raise funds for expansion even as the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) , tracking
stocks on the Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges, has tumbled about
15 percent from its April high on concern economic growth is
slowing. The timing of the share sale wasn’t “good,” Stella Li, senior vice president, said before the announcement.  “After the authorities approved our share sale, we had to
go public within two months,” Li said in an interview on June
17. “We’d rather list our shares next year, but it’s out of our
control.”  The Hong Kong shares of the company have slumped 47 percent
this year, compared with a 5.4 percent decline in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  The shares rose 1.6 percent to HK$21.75 as of
11 a.m. in Hong Kong trading.  Share Sale  BYD’s share-sale experience isn’t unique. Prada SpA, the
Milan-based luxury company, raised $2.14 billion by selling
shares near the low end of its target in this year’s biggest
Hong Kong initial public offering, according to people familiar
with the matter on June 17. Samsonite International SA, the
luggage maker, fell 7.7 percent on June 16 in its Hong Kong
debut amid a global stock market slump and concern  China’s
economy  may cool.  BYD’s sales fell for 10 straight months through May amid
slowing vehicle demand growth and rising competition, as
carmakers including General Motors Co. and Nissan Motor Co.
introduced cheaper models.  China ’s passenger-car sales fell for
the first time in more than two years in May after the
government ended tax incentives and subsidies.  “They need to increase their quality, that’s pretty
important,” said Jack Yeung, an analyst at BNP Paribas
Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Instead of investing in new
model or new products, they should also invest in the
technology.”  New Models  BYD is seeking to reverse falling sales by introducing a
luxury sedan and more electric vehicles over the next two years,
said Li at the company’s Pingshan headquarters in southern
China.  The E6 electric car will be sold to individual consumers in
selected Chinese cities starting July, and the company will roll
out the luxury G6 sedan at the end of the year, she said. The
automaker is also planning to introduce a small electric vehicle
in China next year, Li said.  Vehicle sales at BYD, whose F3 sedan was China’s most
popular passenger car in 2009 and 2010, may be unchanged from
last year as the overall industry slows and the company misread
market trends, she said. The automaker missed its 2010 target by
13 percent, selling 519,806 cars.  “The market changed from first car owners to second car
owners,” said Li, who predicts an improvement in sales from the
beginning of next year. “A second car owner is looking for an
upgraded model but our car models such as the F3 are still
focused on first car owners.”  Sale Proceeds  MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., a unit of Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., bought 9.9 percent of BYD in September
2008. The carmaker raised HK$1.4 billion ($180 million) in an
initial public offering in  Hong Kong  in July 2002 by selling
shares at HK$10.95 each.  BYD will issue the new shares on June 21, and receive 1.35
billion yuan in net proceeds after deducting issuance fees, it
said. The final share price was determined by factors including
investor offers, the current industry situation, and valuations
of comparable companies, the company said in a separate
announcement to the Hong Kong stock exchange.  The carmaker said on May 5 it planned to use 1.14 billion
yuan of the proceeds from the share sale for automobile
research, development and production facilities in Shenzhen. The
company would also spend 652 million yuan to expand its auto
product and accessories unit and 400 million yuan on a lithium-
ion battery production project, BYD said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  