-- 
Cameron Learns From Thatcher on Economy

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-06-20T10:03:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/cameron-learns-from-thatcher-on-economy.html
British Prime Minister  David Cameron 
has bowed to uproars over taking away free milk in schools and
tinkering with the  National Health Service .  When it comes to the budget-cutting core of his economic
policy, the lesson from his predecessors including  Margaret Thatcher  is that reversing course isn’t an option.  With the economy growing more slowly than he projected,
pushing back expectations of  Bank of England  interest-rate
increases and spurring opposition calls that he abandon his
deficit-reduction plan, Cameron has no alternative to pressing
ahead, political scholars say. The premier and his ministers are
today under pressure over their plan to raise the age at which
women receive their state pension.  Thatcher’s experience shows sticking to painful economic
policies is less dangerous politically than a perception of
weakness, according to Tim Bale, author of “The  Conservative
Party  From Thatcher to Cameron.”  “Even if people disagree, the idea that you’re sticking to
it and prepared to stay the course is important,” said Bale,
who’s professor of politics at the  University of Sussex .  Heath’s Retreat  While voters can accept retreats on secondary policies,
they’ll punish a change of tack on anything central to the
government’s identity, Bale says, pointing to Edward Heath,
Thatcher’s predecessor as Conservative leader. In 1972, he
abandoned a pledge not to bail out failing industries for fear
of widespread job losses, introducing the phrase “U-turn” to
Britain’s political dictionary.  “It was in complete contradiction to what they’d promised
at the 1970 election, and it resulted in election defeat in
1974,” Bale said in an interview.  Cameron tried to make a virtue last week of his rethink of
an overhaul of the NHS, a step forced on him by a rebellion from
his Liberal Democrat coalition partners and protests from
doctors and nurses. He said it showed his government is
listening.  As lawmakers debate the Pensions Bill later today, Work and
Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith is facing calls to abandon
a proposal to speed up the increase in the  retirement age  for
women from 60 to 65. The previous Labour government had planned
to do this by 2020, and the coalition would like it to happen by
2018 to save money, meaning hundreds of thousands of women will
have to work longer than they thought.  Away from the tinkering, Cameron is following the path on
core policy laid out by Thatcher in 1980 in one of her most
famous speeches.  ‘Not for Turning’  Amid expectations she would back away from anti-
inflationary policies as unemployment rose, the prime minister
 told her party : “To those waiting with bated breath for that
favorite media catchphrase, the U-turn, I have only one thing to
say: You turn if you want to. The lady’s not for turning.”  That image of toughness on the big question of the day
didn’t mean Thatcher wasn’t flexible elsewhere. The following
year she gave in to coalminers over planned pit closures when
they threatened to strike. It wasn’t until 1984 that she was
ready to take the miners’ union on, eventually defeating it
after a year-long fight.  ‘Chose Her Battles’  “She thought very carefully and chose her battles,” said
Mark Wickham-Jones, professor of politics at Bristol University.
“She always understood the politics of what she was doing.”  Thatcher’s counterpart across the Atlantic, President
 George H.W. Bush , failed that test, punished by voters in 1992
for failing to follow through on his  1988 pre-election pledge :
“Read my lips: No new taxes.”  Cameron acted to prevent the government’s NHS plans
becoming a similarly toxic moment. Since 2006, he has repeated
that the state-funded service, which offers free care to all
citizens, is his top priority. In 2009, he pledged no more
“top-down restructures and reorganizations.”  Shortly after taking office the following year, the
government announced plans to transfer about 60 percent of the
NHS budget from local boards to groups run by community doctors
and for the extension of a competitive market in health-care
provision.  When it became clear the policy was unpopular, Cameron
announced first a “pause” on the policy in April and then,
this week, the rethink. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg ,
acknowledging policy had been mishandled, said the NHS was the
closest thing Britain has to a national religion.  ‘Stayed True’  “When I became prime minister, I made a few promises to
myself: Not to go native and forget what people care about and
not to stick stubbornly to a course if it wasn’t the right thing
to do,” Cameron said in an  article for the Daily Mail newspaper 
last week. “In holding an unprecedented listening exercise on
the NHS, I believe I’ve stayed true to both.”  It wasn’t the fastest U-turn the government has performed.
In August, Higher Education Minister David Willetts appeared
live on television defending the removal of free milk supplies
to pre-school children, a policy revealed in that morning’s
newspapers, when he learned from the interviewer that Cameron’s
office was telling reporters the idea had been dropped.  Where Cameron has maintained consistency is on his 2006
pledge not to cut NHS funding. That has forced him to cut other
departments’ budgets more deeply, and some in his party have
urged him to go back on it. Cameron has refused, saying it would
be fatal to his party’s credibility.  Deficit Plan  The plan to eliminate Britain’s structural deficit by 2015
is, according to Bale and Wickham-Jones, of similarly totemic
importance to Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne .  The two men have been talking up the British economy in
recent weeks, highlighting the International Monetary Fund’s
endorsement of their austerity policies.  Labour’s Treasury spokesman,  Ed Balls , urged an emergency
cut in  sales tax  last week, pointing out that growth has stalled
in the past two quarters and the U.K.’s recovery lags behind
that of most other Group of Seven countries.  “Cautious optimism has been borne out by events,” Osborne
told a finance-industry audience in London June 15. “The
British economy is recovering,” he said, allowing the
government the leeway to start planning the sale of stakes in
banks nationalized during the financial crisis.  “For Osborne to say he has re-orientated his strategy
would be a fatal compromise,” Wickham-Jones said. “He would
have to resign.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 