-- 
Rory McIlroy Beats Tiger Woods With Victory at Golf’s U.S. Open at Age 22

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-06-20T19:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/mcilroy-wins-u-s-open-for-first-major-title.html
Rory McIlroy became the youngest
major champion since  Tiger Woods  in 1997 with an eight-stroke
win at the U.S. Open, where he set 12 records, including the
lowest score in the golf tournament’s 111-year history.  McIlroy, 22, shot four straight rounds in the 60s at
Congressional Country Club in Bethesda, Maryland, to finish 16-
under par at the season’s second major championship. His margin
of victory was the fourth-largest at the U.S. Open, which was
without Woods, a three-time U.S. Open champion who is sidelined
with leg injuries, for the first time since 1994.  “When you win a major quite early in your career, everyone
is going to draw comparisons,” McIlroy said of Woods, who has
14 major titles among his 71 U.S. PGA Tour wins. “I’m just
happy to be sitting here with a trophy that has his name on
it.”  McIlroy, of Northern Ireland, is the youngest man to win
the U.S. Open since Hall of Fame golfer Bobby Jones in 1923, and
his victory comes two months after he blew a four-stroke lead in
the final round of the  Masters Tournament , the season’s first
major.  “I felt like I got over the Masters pretty quickly,” he
told reporters while nodding at the trophy on the table next to
him. “It’s nice to prove some people wrong.”  McIlroy tapped in for a par and the win on the 18th green
yesterday, then went to hug his father, Gerry, and wish him
“Happy Father’s Day.” He received $1.44 million for his second
career win in the U.S. and third worldwide as a professional.
McIlroy will jump to fourth from eighth when the next  Official
World Ranking  is released today.  Day Second  Jason Day of  Australia  finished second at 8-under par,
matching his runner-up finish at the Masters. Day’s score was
the lowest by a non-winner at the U.S. Open.  McIlroy’s winning total of 268 was the lowest in U.S. Open
history, eclipsing the 272 shot by  Jack Nicklaus  in 1980, Lee Janzen in 1993, Woods in 2000 and  Jim Furyk  in 2003.  Before this year, the lowest winning score in relation to
par at the tournament was Woods’s 12 under in 2000.  McIlroy’s margin of victory is the second biggest in the
past 90 years, bettered by Woods’s record 15-shot win at  Pebble
Beach  in 2000. Willie Smith won by 11 strokes at Baltimore
Country Club in 1899 and James Barnes won by nine at Maryland’s
Columbia Country Club in 1922.  McIlroy, who turned 22 six weeks ago, is the ninth-youngest
champion in U.S. Open history.  Nicklaus, Woods  Nicklaus, 71, was three months older than McIlroy when he
got the first of his four titles in 1962. Woods, 35, was 24 when
he won the first of his three U.S. Opens and 21 when he captured
his first Masters title in 1997.  “This kid is going to have a great career, I don’t think
there’s any doubt about it,” Nicklaus, who won a record 18
major titles, said of McIlroy in a televised interview. “He’s
got all the right components.”  McIlroy’s performance at Congressional comes in a season in
which only one of the previous 25 U.S.  PGA Tour  events was won
by more than two strokes --  Phil Mickelson ’s three-shot victory
at the Houston Open.  “You can tell that Rory has had this type of talent in him
for some time,” said Mickelson, a five-time U.S. Open runner-up
who tied for 54th at 7-over par. “To see him putting it
together is pretty neat.”  Wire-to-Wire  McIlroy led from the start, opening with a 6-under-par 65
for a three-shot advantage that was the biggest after the first
round since 1976. He followed with scores of 66, 68 and 69 to
become the third player with four rounds in the 60s at the U.S.
Open. McIlroy and Robert Garrigus, who tied for third, became
the first players since Curtis Strange in 1994 with four
straight sub-par U.S. Open rounds. McIlroy also became the sixth
player to hold the outright lead after all four rounds.  McIlroy’s title comes a year after another player from
 Northern Ireland , Graeme McDowell, won the U.S. Open with an
even-par score at Pebble Beach. McDowell tied for 14th this year
at 2-under par.  “I didn’t have a chance to play with Tiger when he was in
his real pomp, and this guy is the best I’ve ever seen, simple
as that,” McDowell said of McIlroy. “He’s a breath of fresh
air for the game. Perhaps we’re ready for golf’s next superstar,
and maybe Rory is it.”  The last time two non-Americans from the same country
captured the U.S. Open in consecutive years was in 1920-21, when
 England ’s Edward Ray and James Barnes won.  Size of  Connecticut   Northern Ireland has a population of 1.7 million and is
about the size of Connecticut, the third-smallest U.S. state.  “Golf is very accessible back home,” McIlroy said. “And
a big help to me growing up was the Golfing Union of Ireland and
the help that they gave me throughout my junior and amateur
career, enabling me to play in different places in the world. It
really prepared me for coming out on tour.”  Lee Westwood of England, Y.E. Yang of  South Korea  and Kevin
Chappell and Garrigus of the U.S. tied for third at 6 under, 10
shots behind McIlroy. Chappell, a rookie on the U.S. PGA Tour,
and Garrigus, who has one career win, prevented the host nation
from being left without a player in the top five of the U.S.
Open for the first time since 1909.  Sergio Garcia  of  Spain  was 5-under par, tied for seventh
with Peter Hanson of  Sweden .  This is the first time five straight major titles have been
won by non-U.S. players.  Major Winners  South Africa ’s  Louis Oosthuizen  won the 2010 British Open,
 Germany ’s  Martin Kaymer  captured the 2010 PGA Championship and
South Africa’s Charl Schwartzel won this year’s Masters.  While McIlroy had three previous third-place finishes in
major championships, he had been best known for disappointments.
At this year’s Masters, he took a four-shot advantage into the
final round before closing with an 8-over 80. At the 2010
British Open, he followed his first-round 63 with an 80 and
eventually tied for third.  There was no collapse during the final round at
Congressional, where McIlroy birdied his first hole, came within
inches of a hole-in-one on the par-3 10th hole and never let
anyone get closer than eight strokes.  “A win like that will do wonders for his self-esteem,”
said Luke Donald, No. 1 in the world rankings, who tied for 45th
at 5-over par. “He’s going to be high on confidence and he’s
already got the game to beat anyone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Bethesda,  Maryland , at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Buteau in Bethesda, Maryland, at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  