-- 
Clarence Clemons, Saxophonist With Springsteen’s E Street Band, Dies at 69

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-06-19T16:28:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/clarence-clemons-saxophonist-with-springsteen-s-e-street-band-dies-at-69.html
Clarence Clemons, the saxophonist
known as the “Big Man” who had been a featured performer with
 Bruce Springsteen  and the E Street Band since the 1970s, has
died. He was 69.  Clemons  died of complications from a stroke that he
suffered on June 12, according to a statement posted on
Springsteen’s website. He lived in Singer Island,  Florida , near
 Palm Beach , at the time of his death.  Springsteen  first met him in Asbury Park, New Jersey, where
he and Clemons performed in local nightclubs. He joined the band
in time for its first album, “Greetings from Asbury Park,
N.J.,” released in 1973.  The cover of 1975’s “Born to Run” album was dominated by
a photograph of Clemons and Springsteen that showcased their
bond as people as well as musicians. The song “Tenth Avenue
Freeze-Out” from the album referred to him: “When the change
was made uptown / and the Big Man joined the band.”  “Clarence lived a wonderful life,” Springsteen said in
the  statement . “He carried within him a love of people that
made them love him. He created a wondrous and extended family.
He loved the saxophone, loved our fans and gave everything he
had every night he stepped on stage.”  The stroke followed spinal fusion surgery and hip and knee
replacements. The knee surgery left him unable to walk for three
months before appearing with the band at Super Bowl XLIII in
2009. This year, a hand injury kept him from playing before Game
2 of the National Basketball Association finals.  Started at Nine  Clemons also had a solo career and worked with  Aretha Franklin , Lady Gaga and other artists. He co-wrote a partly
fictionalized memoir, “The Big Man: Real Life and Tall Tales,”
and  acted  in movies and on television.  Clarence Anicholas Clemons Jr. was born on Jan. 11, 1942,
in Norfolk, Virginia. Nick, a shortened version of his middle
name, appeared as a nickname on the back cover of Springsteen’s
second album, “The Wild, The Innocent and the E Street
Shuffle.”  Clemons was the oldest of three children of Nick Sr., who
owned a fish market, and Thelma, a housewife. They bought his
first saxophone as a gift when he was nine years old and paid
for music lessons. The sax was an alto, and he later moved to
tenor. He also sang with a family gospel group.  His talents weren’t limited to music. Clemons played
football in high school and at Maryland State College, now the
 University of Maryland Eastern Shore . He attended Maryland State
on a football scholarship and was a teammate of Emerson Boozer,
who later played with the  New York Jets .  Door Blows Away  After college, Clemons moved to  New Jersey , where he worked
as a corrections officer and youth counselor and played semipro
football. His pursuit of a National Football League career ended
because of injuries suffered in an auto accident the day before
a tryout with the  Cleveland Browns .  Clemons performed with several bands along the  Jersey
Shore . In 1970, he ended up with  Norman Seldin  and the Joyful
Noyze, one of the area’s biggest acts at the time. His fateful
meeting with Springsteen occurred the next year at the Student
Prince nightclub, on a break from a show with Seldin.  “I had my saxophone with me, and when I walked in this
club -- no lie -- a gust of wind blew the door down the
street,” Clemons told  People magazine . “I say, ‘I want to
play. Can I sit in?’ Bruce says, ‘Hey, you can do anything you
want.’”  The first song he played was an early version of “Spirit
in the Night,” which later appeared on “Greetings.” The  debut
album  featured his sax on that song as well as “Blinded by the
Light.” By the time of its release, Clemons had left Seldin and
joined the E Street Band.  Solo Successes  Clemons toured and played with the band until 1989, when
Springsteen fired its members and started working with other
musicians. He returned when the group was reformed a decade
later, and his last tour ended in 2009.  As a  solo artist , Clemons released seven albums, starting
with 1983’s “Rescue.” His debut featured the  Red Bank  Rockers,
named for Red Bank, New Jersey, a town near Asbury Park where he
owned a nightclub called Big Man’s West from 1981 to 1983.  “Hero” (1985), his second solo album, produced a top-20
single in “You’re a Friend of Mine.” The song was performed as
a duet between Clemons and singer-songwriter Jackson Browne. Daryl Hannah, an actress who was then Browne’s girlfriend, made
a cameo appearance on vocals.  After two more solo albums, “A Night with Mr. C” (1989)
and “Peacemaker” (1995), Clemons fronted a band known as the
Temple of Soul. The group released two live albums recorded in
Asbury Park and a studio recording, “Brothers in Arms.”  Movies and Television  Clemons also recorded a 1995 album with  Aja Kim , another
singer-songwriter, called “Get It On” that was released only
in  Japan . The duo was billed as Aja & the Big Man.  Lady Gaga included Clemons solos on “Hair” and “Edge of
Glory” from her second album, “Born This Way,” released this
year. He also performed with her band on the season finale of
TV’s “ American Idol .”  These appearances were part of a career as a sideman that
began in the 1970s. He played on Franklin’s “Freeway of Love,”
a No. 3 single on Billboard magazine’s chart in 1985, as well as
albums by the Four Tops and Roy Orbison.  Clemons was a trumpet player in “ New York , New York,” a
1977 musical that was directed by  Martin Scorsese . His TV acting
included appearances on  HBO ’s series “The Wire” in 2004, where
he played the organizer of a youth program.  In 2009, he became an author with the help of a TV writer
and producer, Don Reo. They co-wrote “Big Man,” a memoir that
featured his storytelling as well as his biography. He was also
the subject of a documentary film, “Who Do I Think I Am? A
Portrait of a Journey,” released this year.  Clemons was married five times and had four sons, Clarence
III, Charles, Christopher and Jarod. His children and his fifth
wife, Victoria, are among his survivors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chuck Stevens in New York at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  