-- 
Tepco Says Decontamination Halt Won’t Delay Atomic Solution

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-06-20T09:03:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/tepco-says-failure-at-water-decontamination-won-t-delay-nuclear-shutdown.html
Tokyo Electric  Power Co. played down
concern that a solution to the crisis at its Fukushima nuclear
plant may be delayed, saying it plans to resume clearing
radioactive water that’s hindering recovery work.  Decontamination of the water was halted on June 18 after
radiation levels in a treatment unit exceeded the limit set by
the utility in five hours, instead of one month as expected. The
company plans to resume full operation of the system after
assessing the cause of the readings, Junichi Matsumoto, a
general manager, said today in Tokyo.  “Decontamination is the key to solving the problems at the
plant,” Tadashi Narabayashi, a nuclear engineering professor at
 Hokkaido University , said yesterday. “They put together
equipment from different manufacturers, which may have made the
system as a whole vulnerable.”  Filtering of about 105 million liters (28 million gallons)
of water in basements and trenches at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant was halted after the level of cesium in a unit reached 4.7
millisieverts of radiation. Filters generally need replacement
at a level of 4 millisieverts, and the company had expected the
unit to last about a month, Matsumoto said.  Tokyo  Electric hasn’t determined when it will restart
decontamination, Matsumoto said.  ‘Simple System’  The company known as Tepco is using a cesium absorption
unit from Kurion Inc. of the U.S. After the water passes through
that unit it goes to a decontamination facility supplied by
Areva SA of  France .  “Tepco should have had a very simple water decontamination
system of its own,” Narabayashi said. “Then, it’s easy to fix
or replace a troubled part by themselves.”  Tepco on April 17 outlined plans to end within six to nine
months the world’s worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in 1986.
The first stage is to reduce radiation levels at the plant
within three months and then achieve a so-called cold shutdown
where reactor temperatures fall below 100 degrees Celsius (212
degrees Fahrenheit).  The Fukushima plant had three reactor meltdowns after the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out power and backup
generators, crippling its cooling systems.  Japan  in April raised
the severity rating of the crisis to 7, the highest on an
international scale and the same as the Chernobyl disaster.  Slow Response  Tepco has been criticized for its slow response to the
accident and for publishing erroneous radiation data, while the
government-run Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency has been
blamed for not ensuring the utility heeded warnings that a
tsunami could overwhelm the plant’s defenses.  The utility is now the subject of study by Yotaro Hatamura,
who was appointed by Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  last month to head
a 10-member team conducting an “impartial and multifaceted”
investigation into what went wrong and how to prevent a repeat.  The nation’s largest banks and insurers, including Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. and Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co.,
will provide short-term operating funds to Tokyo Electric,
according to local media reports.  Japan’s government is discussing plans for a fund of
several hundred billion yen to finance reconstruction and
support families and companies in the disaster-hit prefectures
of Fukushima, Miyagi and Iwate, the Nikkei newspaper reported
yesterday.  Fukushima Governor Yuhei Sato reiterated his opposition to
restarting Tepco’s nuclear reactors in the prefecture, the Asahi
newspaper reported yesterday. Sato said he will respect and
adhere to the denuclearization outline of a prefectural
committee on reconstruction, the newspaper reported.  Supply ‘Gap’  Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  said on June 18 that he may let
utilities restart nuclear generators that had been shut for
routine maintenance. There are negatives to suspending all
nuclear power, Kaieda said, citing an expected “gap” in power
supply and demand in Japan’s coming summer months.  Hatamura indicated his team will probe whether an
earthquake-prone country such as Japan should build its  energy
policy  around nuclear plants. Because of the inherent dangers,
it’s a mistake to treat the industry as safe, he said.  Tepco shares rose 4 percent to close at 314 yen on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange today. The stock has fallen 85 percent
since the day before the quake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  