-- 
Euro Drives Estonia Credit Risk Lower as Neighbors Dodge Greek Contagion

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-06-20T13:03:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/euro-drives-estonia-credit-risk-lower-as-neighbors-dodge-greek-contagion.html
Euro adoption has helped  Estonia 
distance itself from all but the strongest European economies in
terms of credit risk as eastern states such as  Poland  waver in
their ardor for the currency, shaken by a sovereign-debt crisis.  Estonia, the third-riskiest European Union member two years
ago, is now among the 10 best. Its five-year credit-default
swaps traded at 87 basis points today, followed by  France  at
83.7, the  Czech Republic  at 83,  Austria  at 68.7 and the U.K. at
66, according to data provider CMA. Poland’s CDS were at 159.6.  “Markets do understand and reward the amount of discipline
these countries have imposed on themselves,” said Agnes Belaisch, who oversees $2.5 billion of emerging-market assets at
 Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd . in  London . “So for Estonia,
Czech status is the next frontier, or even Austria’s.”  Estonia had the EU’s only budget surplus and lowest public
debt last year as it prepared to become the 17th euro member on
Jan. 1. Eastern European neighbors including Poland, Latvia and
Lithuania have said they may delay joining the currency union
because of concern the Greek crisis may change the rules.  Euro-area finance ministers reached no agreement on a 12
billion-euro ($17.1 billion) aid payment to  Greece  at a meeting
that ended early today in Luxembourg, saying Prime Minister
George Papandreou needs to push through laws to cut the deficit
and sell state assets.  Break Up Forecast  The  euro zone  may break up by 2013 as budget cuts slow
growth in southern  Europe  and Germany balks at continuing to
support Greece, the London-based Centre for Economics and
Business Research said today.  “Sooner or later both the Greek population and
international creditors will tire of fighting a losing battle,
leading to a breakup of the currency union,” Chief Executive
Officer Douglas McWilliams said in a statement.  Estonia’s $19 billion economy expanded 8.5 percent from a
year earlier in the first quarter, the EU’s fastest growth rate,
after wage cuts of as much as 30 percent since 2008 helped its
goods compete abroad. The country endured the bloc’s second-
deepest recession in 2008-09, behind  Latvia . Gross domestic
product shrank almost 20 percent and probably won’t reach the
pre-crisis level until 2015, according to  Finance Ministry .  EU countries must meet criteria for inflation, deficits,
debt, long-term  interest rates  and exchange-rate stability to
qualify for euro membership.  Estonian Discipline  Estonia has kept its  budget deficit  below the EU limit of 3
percent of GDP every year since joining the bloc in 2004. Prime
Minister  Andrus Ansip  has said the government would have imposed
austerity measures even without the goal of joining the euro.  The country’s credit-default swaps, used to speculate on a
borrower’s ability to repay debt or hedge against losses, fell
below those of Slovakia and Slovenia, the two other eastern euro
members, on June 1. Slovakia’s CDS traded at 90.5 basis points
today and Slovenia’s at 99.8, according to CMA prices.  Slovakia, which adopted the euro in 2009, had a budget
deficit of 7.9 percent of GDP last year and public debt of 41
percent. Slovenia, which joined in 2007, had a 5.6 percent
shortfall and debt of 38 percent. The euro-area averages were
3.2 percent and 85.4 percent.  Estonia had a  budget surplus  equal to 0.1 percent of GDP
last year and public debt totaled 6.6 percent. The country has
no outstanding bonds and has no plans to sell any, according to
Finance Minister Juergen Ligi.  ‘Clearly Stronger’  “Estonian CDSs could turn out to remain lower than the CDS
levels in Slovakia, Slovenia due to the strong recovery and the
extraordinarily robust public finances,” said  Annika Lindblad ,
an economist at Nordea AB in Helsinki. Estonia’s debt and
deficit figures “are clearly stronger than the ones for
Slovakia and Slovenia,” she said.  Voters in Slovenia on June 5 rejected plans to raise the
retirement age to prevent an aging population from straining the
budget.  Fitch Ratings  said June 6 that Slovakia will probably
exceed its budget deficit target this year as the government
fails to implement promised savings.  Estonia implemented austerity measures equal to 9 percent
of GDP in 2009, preventing the budget gap from ballooning and
keeping the country on course to adopt the euro.  “Europe’s crisis experience clearly speaks for the need of
fast consolidation and reforms,” Ligi said today in an e-mailed
response to questions. “The key question is the political will,
and those who were looking for excuses to not cut spending are
now facing bigger problems.”  Deficits in Hungary, Poland, Latvia and  Lithuania  all
exceed the EU limit. The four countries, which joined the bloc
with Estonia in 2004, have suggested they may delay adopting the
common currency because of concern about the costs of bailing
out Greece, Ireland and  Portugal .  Don’t ‘Kill Yourself’  Latvian central bank Governor Ilmars Rimsevics said June 7
that the euro shouldn’t be introduced “at any price.”
Lithuanian counterpart Vitas Vasiliauskas said two days later
that the goal of adopting the euro in three years is “not
something to kill yourself over.”  Latvia’s credit swaps traded at 212.5 basis points today,
down from 1,193 in March 2009, the EU’s highest at the peak of
the global crisis. Lithuania’s traded at 210. Hungary has the
highest debt level in eastern Europe and the region’s most
expensive credit insurance at 289 basis points.  Sweden boasts the EU’s lowest credit risk, with the
country’s credit-default swaps trading at 26 basis points,
followed by Finland and Denmark at 33.8, the Netherlands 35.9
and Germany 42.8.  CDS prices typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  