-- 
Europe May Withhold Half of Greek Payment

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-19T23:16:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/europe-may-withhold-half-of-greek-payment.html
European governments weighed
withholding half of  Greece ’s next 12 billion-euro ($17.2 billion)
aid payment, seeking to keep the country solvent while
maintaining pressure on the government to slash the debt that
pitched the euro area into crisis.  Euro-area finance ministers may authorize only a 6 billion-
euro loan to tide Greece through bond redemptions in July, while
further aid hinges on Greek budget cuts, Belgian Finance
Minister  Didier Reynders  said.  “We will in any case try to release the necessary funds
for the short term,” Reynders told reporters before a meeting
of euro-area finance ministers in Luxembourg that began late
yesterday.  Europe’s financial brinksmanship ran in parallel with Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s effort to save his government
from collapse and win parliamentary backing for spending cuts,
tax increases and state-asset sales needed to keep bailout funds
flowing.  Spanish Economy Minister  Elena Salgado  said the focus is
still on paying out the full 12 billion euros, telling reporters
after four hours of talks: “You can’t divide it.”  Group of Seven finance officials, including representatives
of euro members Germany, France and  Italy , held telephone
consultations during the gathering on the Greek crisis, a U.S.
official said.  The euro-area finance ministers’ meeting coincided with the
start of a three-day Greek parliamentary debate in  Athens  over a
confidence vote in a new cabinet at what Papandreou called a
“critical crossroads.” Papandreou has 155 seats in the 300-
seat parliament.  Referendum Call  Papandreou said he planned to hold a referendum later in
the year for changes to the constitution that would reform the
political system in the country. The prime minister said his
goal was to tackle the root causes of the country’s debt and
deficits that are “symptoms of the illness, not the cause.”  The new Greek finance minister, Evangelos Venizelos, who
was named in a cabinet overhaul three days ago, came to
Luxembourg with a “strong commitment” to the planned 78
billion euros in budget cuts that provoked street protests last
week. “We can achieve our target thanks to the efforts of our
people and thanks to the cooperation and the assistance of our
partners,” Venizelos said.  More than 47 percent of 1,208 Greeks surveyed by Kapa
Research SA for  To Vima  newspaper oppose the wage and spending
cuts and higher taxes, and want early elections. Almost 35
percent said the package should be approved.  ‘Ambitious’ Overhaul  Germany , which as Europe’s largest economy is the biggest
guarantor of aid packages to Greece, Ireland and  Portugal ,
insists on an “ambitious” economic overhaul in Athens, Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said.  “We will surely work on laying the groundwork for paying
out the tranche,” Schaeuble said. “It also depends on Greece
making the necessary decisions with a fundamental consensus of
the political parties so that we can be confident that Greece
will live up to its commitments.”  Germany raised the prospects for a second aid package on
June 17 by dropping calls for a mandatory bond exchange that
might lead rating companies to declare Greece in default.
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s concession gave a lift to stocks,
bonds and the euro, spurring optimism that  Europe  would get
ahead of the debt crisis that has exposed the weaknesses of the
17-country currency union.  While Germany bowed to  European Central Bank  and French
demands not to compel investors to buy new Greek bonds as old
ones expire, the lines are blurry between a “voluntary” and
“compulsory” rollover that would lead rating companies to
declare Greece in default.  On the table are incentives for bondholders to maintain
their exposure to Greece, said Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker, chairman of the talks. He ruled out an agreement
tonight on a new three-year package for Greece, pointing to July
for a “final and overall answer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Luxembourg at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  