-- 
Euro Area May Break Up by 2013 as Bailout Fight Hurts Relations, CEBR Says

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-06-19T23:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/euro-area-may-break-up-by-2013-as-bailout-fight-hurts-relations-cebr-says.html
The euro area is on course to break
up as member nations’ willingness to continue bailouts for the
region’s indebted countries dissipates, the Centre for Economics
and Business research said in a research note.  The stronger common currency and government spending cuts
will limit growth in southern  Europe , while Germany will balk at
continuing to support  Greece , the London-based group said in a
report today. The group forecasts average growth from 2011-2015
of 1.2 percent for Italy, 1 percent for  Spain  and 0.6 percent
for Portugal. Greece will contract 0.5 percent.  “Sooner or later both the Greek population and
international creditors will tire of fighting a losing battle,
leading to a breakup of the currency union,” Douglas McWilliams, chief executive officer of the London-based CEBR,
said in the statement.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  last week faced
political challenges in convincing officials to pass austerity
measures needed to secure a second bailout from the European
Union. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said at a June 17 joint
press conference with French President Nicolas Sarkozy that
she’ll work with the  European Central Bank  to rescue Greece to
avoid disrupting markets.  In a separate report today, Ernst & Young raised its growth
forecast for the region to reflect expectations that officials
will contain the region’s financial crisis. The group sees
growth of 2 percent this year and 1.6 percent in 2012, though
risks from a Greek rescue may undermine the predictions.  Disorderly Scenario  “There is still much uncertainty about the impact of Greek
debt restructuring on the financial sector and its implications
for the euro-zone economy as a whole,” Marie Diron, senior
economic adviser for the E&Y forecasts, said in a statement.
“We could easily tip into a disorderly scenario where euro-zone
gross domestic product would fall significantly.”  On the euro region’s breakup, the CEBR said its unlikely to
collapse in the short term because for  Germany , the “rewards of
a stable euro outweigh the cost of further loans.”  “But it will be difficult to keep paying for the likely
successive rounds of bailouts that are likely to be required,”
CEBR economist Tim Ohlenburg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  