-- 
Euro Falls Versus Dollar, Yen on Delayed Agreement for Greek Bailout Loan

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-06-20T12:53:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/euro-weakens-versus-dollar-yen-on-concerns-greece-s-debt-crisis-to-worsen.html
The euro fell against the dollar for
the first time in three days after European governments failed
to agree on releasing a loan payment to spare  Greece  from
default on its debts.  Europe ’s shared currency declined for a fourth day versus
the yen, its longest losing streak in six weeks, before the
Greek parliament resumes debating a motion of confidence in
Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government. The dollar and
the Swiss franc rose versus most major peers while the
Australian and New Zealand dollars and Norwegian krone dropped,
as falling stock markets damped demand for the higher-yielding
assets.  “The resolution to the Greek issue is quite a distance
away,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in New
York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. “In the meantime, you
just throw good money after bad and as policy makers try to find
a middle ground between two extremes. The market becomes
increasingly suspect of any near-term resolutions and constant
disappointments.”  The euro declined 0.3 percent to $1.4268 at 8:50 a.m. in
 New York . The shared currency fell 0.1 percent to 114.46 yen
from 114.52, extending last week’s 0.6 percent drop. The dollar
gained 0.2 percent to 80.23 yen from 80.05.  ‘Buy-on-Dips’  “We think the euro is going to be oversold by all this
continued negative news out of Greece,” Woolfolk said. “I’m a
buy-on-dips type of guy.”  Australia’s dollar slid 0.8 percent to $1.0539. Its New
Zealand counterpart lost 0.6 percent to 80.77 U.S. cents. The
krone fell 0.5 percent to 5.5520 per U.S. dollar.  Papandreou kicked off a three-day debate yesterday on a
confidence motion in his government. He called for the vote last
week after opposition parties rejected pleas for national
consensus and the prime minister’s handling of the crisis led to
defections from his party. Antonis Samaras, leader of  New
Democracy , the largest opposition party in Greece, repeated his
call for elections.  Greece needs parliamentary approval of a 78 billion-euro
($111 billion) package of budget cuts to ensure the payment of a
fifth loan under last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout.  Greek Reminder  “We forcefully reminded the Greek government that by the
end of this month they have to see to it that we are all
convinced that all the commitments they made are fulfilled,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters
today after chairing a seven-hour meeting.  “Our inclination would be to sell into euro rallies,”
said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at Westpac
Banking Corp. in Sydney. “We’re not at all convinced that
Greece has the political will to deliver everything that its
lenders want from it.”  Investors should sell the euro on gains above $1.43 on
concern the Greek government is “a little too precarious,”
Westpac’s Callow said. The median forecast of 49 analysts polled
by Bloomberg News is for the euro to fall to $1.41 by December.  The yen snapped two days of gains versus the dollar after
the  Finance Ministry  said  Japan ’s exports fell 10.3 percent in
May from a year earlier, adding to signs the economy may
struggle to recover from a March 11 earthquake and tsunami that
damaged a nuclear power station at Fukushima, north of  Tokyo .
The median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for an 8.4 percent drop.  ‘Yen Weakness’  “There’s a little bit of yen weakness following those
export numbers,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong .  The dollar strengthened as declines in commodities and
stock markets around the world boosted demand for safer assets.
The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.2 percent to 75.171.  The MSCI World Index fell 0.4 percent, while futures of the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were 0.4 percent lower. The S&P GSCI
Spot Index of raw materials dropped 1.2 percent.  The U.S. currency also rallied as strategists speculated
that the  Federal Reserve  won’t signal a third round of
quantitative easing after a meeting on June 22. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  has kept its benchmark rate unchanged between
zero and 0.25 percent since December 2008. Investors forecast a
15 percent chance the central bank will increase the rate at its
January meeting, according to CME Group Inc. data, down from 21
percent a month ago.  QE2 End  “Our economists expect the FOMC to make the formal
decision to conclude QE2 at the end of June,” Barclays Plc
strategists including London-based Sara Yates wrote today in a
research note to clients.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will likely reiterate that the
balance of risk doesn’t favor further asset purchases, according
to the strategists.  “In the current environment, we expect these comments to
be mildly  U.S. dollar  positive,” the Barclays analysts wrote.  The dollar has appreciated 1.3 percent in the past week,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  