-- 
Fiery Woman Chef Rowe Adds Touch of Spice to London Restaurant

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-06-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/fiery-woman-chef-rowe-adds-touch-of-spice-to-london-restaurant-interview.html
Silvena Rowe looks down on the other
chefs in her kitchen -- physically, that is, not professionally.  In her heels, this Bulgarian-Turkish-born chef tops six
feet (1.8 meters) before you even reach the spiky blond hair
that crowns her chiseled features. She’s glamorous and scary as
she surveys her London restaurant, Quince at the  May Fair Hotel .  Rowe previously headed the kitchen at Baltic. She’s worked
as a consultant, cooked around the world, published books and
made numerous television appearances before finally getting her
own place, which opened last week serving eastern Mediterranean
dishes. Has she faced discrimination as a woman chef?  “Look at me,” she says, arching her back and thrusting
her chin forward. “I’m six foot, blonde, in your face. Not many
people dare to stand up against me. There have been certain
comments thrown here, there and everywhere, but nothing directly
to my face and they know not to do it, you know.  “It’s a very physical job. I operate like a man in the
kitchen, I really do. I create this amazing feminine cuisine but
you do need discipline and I have a great team. They are all
fabulous men and they work for me, and they work with me.”  Does she shout at them?  “No, because it’s an open-plan kitchen,” and diners can
hear what’s going on, she says in the European accent that makes
her sound part-Bond girl, part-Bond villain. “If I want to,
I’ll take them down in the basement.” So that’s OK then.  Spicy Blend  The dishes at Quince are light and seasonal, yet with
strong and distinctive flavors. Lamb cutlets come with tahini --
a creamy paste made from ground sesame seeds -- and za’atar, a
blend of spices and seeds. King prawns are served with
pomegranate butter and anise flowers. Labneh (a kind of yogurt)
is made with paprika oil and nasturtium flowers za’atar.  “I’ve lived in this country a lot longer than I’ve lived
anywhere else in the world,” says Rowe, who declines to give
her age (and I daren’t ask a second time). She was born in
 Bulgaria , has a British husband and two sons, aged 18 and 23.  “I’m half-Ottoman Turkish, half-Bulgarian and mostly
really British nowadays,” she says. “The food from my
childhood was magical. It was food that made you so happy to be
alive, that made me really ecstatic. I remember going on
holidays and instead of writing about the weather, the sun, the
sea, I would send my grandparents a postcard about the food.”  The restaurant is designed by Swedish-born  Martin
Brudnizki , whose projects include Soho Beach House, Miami, and
the Club at the Ivy. The colors are warm and there’s a large
open kitchen along one side.  Sexy Kitchen  “I said to Martin I want to create a kitchen that’s like
my boudoir, because I’m a woman,” Rowe said. “Look at this
sexy kitchen.”  Passion is one thing and success often another. Rowe faces
competition from Nopi, the new restaurant of Israeli-born Yotam
Ottolenghi, whose modern cooking encompasses Mediterranean,
Middle Eastern and Asian cuisines. Quince also follows openings
from well-known male chefs, including Jason Atherton (Pollen
Street Social) and  Marcus Wareing  (Gilbert Scott).  Is she nervous about the competition?  “When you put it like that, obviously I am very nervous.
You’re putting me in the category of some amazing men. I have a
very unorthodox, different form of training and my food stands
its own ground. I rely very heavily on taste and texture and if
you don’t get my food, then it’s not worth your coming here.”  Quince is at the May Fair Hotel, Stratton Street, London,
W1J 8LT. Information: +44-20-7915-3892 or
 http://www.quincelondon.com/   (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 