-- 
Funds Reduce Long Positions in Commodities in Bet Global Growth to Decline

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-06-19T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/funds-trim-bullish-commodity-bets-as-global-growth-may-decline.html
Funds reduced bullish bets on
commodity prices for the first time in four weeks as  Greece ’s
debt crisis spurred speculation that global growth will decline,
curbing demand for raw materials.  Speculators cut their net-long positions in 18 U.S.
commodities by 0.9 percent to 1.3 million futures and options
contracts in the week ended June 14, government data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the first drop since May 17. Declines
were led by a 63 percent plunge in bets on rising wheat prices.
Natural gas holdings tumbled 41 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
slumped 4.7 percent last week, the first loss since early May.
The International Monetary fund lowered its forecast for U.S.
growth in 2011 on June 17, saying that weaker growth in the
country along with “challenges in the euro area periphery pose
greater downside risks” to worldwide expansion.  “The big question is whether the global economic slowdown
will result in weaker demand for agricultural commodities,”
said James Dailey, who manages $200 million at TEAM Financial
Management LLC in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania . Fund holdings may
decline again next week, he said.  Investors pulled $973 million out of commodity funds in the
week ended June 15, according to EPFR Global, a Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based researcher. That’s the biggest outflow since
mid-May, EPFR said.  Wheat Bets  Managed-money funds and other large speculators reduced
bullish bets on wheat prices by 12,896 contracts to 7,558. That
was the biggest decline since investors were net-short in
November.  Wheat futures for September delivery tumbled 9.9 percent
last week, the most for the contract since mid-March.  Russia ,
once the world’s second-largest shipper, plans to remove an
export ban on July 1, boosting speculation that global supplies
will be ample.  “You’ve got the prospects of a big Russian crop, with them
back out exporting again,”  Tomm Pfitzenmaier , a partner at
Summit Commodity Brokerage in  Des Moines ,  Iowa , said on June 16.
“The whole thing looks pretty negative.”  Prices still have surged 48 percent in the past year as
adverse global weather threatened crops. Corn has jumped 74
percent, and soybeans have gained 44 percent.  A measure of net-long positions in 11 U.S. farm goods rose
by 0.6 percent in the week ended June 14, the fourth straight
increase. Wagers on rising corn prices gained 5.4 percent. Sugar
holdings jumped 25 percent, and bullish cocoa bets more than
quadrupled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  