-- 
GE-Safran Engines Said to Gain Major Show Order From AirAsia

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-06-19T15:19:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/ge-safran-engines-said-to-gain-major-show-order-from-airasia.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Safran SA (SAF) 
are likely to win an order for engines on the revamped A320neo
aircraft from  AirAsia Bhd (AIRA) , which is negotiating to buy at least
175 aircraft in what may be the biggest deal of the  Paris Air
Show , three people familiar with the negotiations said.  The order for  CFM International , the companies’ joint
venture, would be valued at more than $4 billion, based on
estimates for list prices for the Leap-X engine. Negotiations
between Airbus and AirAsia Chief Executive Officer Tony Fernandes are still continuing, and an accord may be announced
later this coming week, said the people, who requested not to be
identified because the talks are private.  Fernandes said in February that he aims to buy at least 175
A320neos as he expands the fleet of  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
discount airline. CFM’s Leap-X competes with  Pratt & Whitney ’s
geared turbofan as the engine of choice for the A320neo. The
twin-aisle jet was announced at the end of last year and has
already won more than 400 orders or commitments.  Airbus said yesterday that it’s confident of gaining more
than 500 orders by the end of the Paris Air Show, which
commences tomorrow. Morgan Stanley estimated in January that
A320neo orders may reach as high as 1,000 at the show.  Higher Price  Both engine makers are listing A320neo engines for about
$12 million each, according to estimates from analysts including
Teal Group. Airbus has said that the A320neo will cost about $6
million more than its existing variant, which sells for about
$85 million at list price. Customers typically get discounts
when they order aircraft.  Airbus is making the A320neo available from the end of
2015, promising efficiency gains of 15 percent compared with a
new A320 available today.  Boeing Co. (BA) , whose competing 737
aircraft only comes with CFM engines, has yet to decide whether
it will upgrade its single-aisle aircraft or design a new jet.  CFM last week won placement of its new Leap-X model on 30
upgraded Airbus SAS jets for Virgin America Inc. as part of an
order valued at $1.4 billion, ending rival Pratt & Whitney’s
solo run on the more fuel-efficient plane. SAS Group, the
Scandinavian airline, is also set to pick CFM when it buys about
30 A320neo aircraft at the Paris Air Show, another person
briefed on the negotiations said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in Paris at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  