-- 
Greece Urged by Germany to Accept Austerity

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-19T16:46:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/germany-presses-greece-to-unite-behind-cuts-to-escape-default.html
Germany  prodded  Greece  to unite
behind the austerity measures required to keep bailout funds
flowing as Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  battled to
overcome domestic opposition to spending cuts and asset sales.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Greece must
craft an “ambitious” economic overhaul to obtain 12 billion
euros ($17.2 billion) to escape default in July and to win extra
financing on top of the 110 billion euros promised last year.  “We will surely work on laying the groundwork for paying
out the tranche,” Schaeuble told reporters before a meeting of
European finance ministers in Luxembourg tonight. “It also
depends on Greece making the necessary decisions with a
fundamental consensus of the political parties so that we can be
confident that Greece will live up to its commitments.”  Germany’s decision on June 17 not to force Greece into
default gave a lift to stocks, bonds and the euro, spurring
optimism that  Europe  would get ahead of the debt crisis that has
exposed the weaknesses of the 17-country currency union.  While Germany bowed to  European Central Bank  and French
demands not to compel investors to buy new Greek bonds as old
ones expire, the lines are blurry between a “voluntary” and
“compulsory” rollover that would lead rating companies to
declare Greece in default.  On the table are incentives for bondholders to maintain
their exposure to Greece, said Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-
Claude Juncker, chairman of the talks. He ruled out an agreement
tonight on a new three-year package for Greece, pointing to July
for a “final and overall answer.”  ‘Critical Crossroads’  Tonight’s euro area finance ministers’ meeting, starting at
7 p.m., coincided with the start of a three-day Greek
parliamentary debate in  Athens  over a confidence vote in a new
cabinet at what Papandreou called a “critical crossroads.”
Papandreou has 155 seats in the 300-seat parliament.  The new Greek finance minister, Evangelos Venizelos, who
was named in a cabinet overhaul two days ago, came to Luxembourg
with a “strong commitment” to the planned 78 billion euros in
budget cuts and state-asset sales needed to keep Greece’s
official loans flowing.  “We can achieve our target thanks to the efforts of our
people and thanks to the cooperation and the assistance of our
partners,” Venizelos told reporters as he arrived.  More than 47 percent of 1,208 Greeks surveyed by Kapa
Research SA for  To Vima  newspaper oppose the wage and spending
cuts and higher taxes, and want early elections. Almost 35
percent said the package should be approved.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Luxembourg at  jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at  jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  