-- 
Greek Default Spells ‘Havoc’ for Banks a Year After Bailout

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-06-20T11:47:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/greek-default-would-spell-havoc-for-european-banks-a-year-after-bailout.html
A year after European officials
bailed out  Greece , investors say the region’s banks haven’t
raised sufficient capital or cut loans enough to withstand the
contagion that may follow a default.  While European lenders reduced their risk tied to Greece by
30 percent to $136.3 billion last year by not renewing loans,
writing down the value of debt and shifting it off their books,
they still have almost $2 trillion linked to  Portugal , Ireland,
Spain and  Italy , figures from the  Bank for International
Settlements  show, leaving them vulnerable if the crisis spreads.  “The Greek debt situation certainly has the potential to
create havoc with the European banking system,” said Neil Phillips, a  fund manager  at BlueBay Asset Management Plc in
 London , which oversees about $45 billion. “A Greek default and
the ramifications of that would be too ghastly for  Europe  and
the European banking system to contemplate right now.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  retreated last week from a
confrontation with the  European Central Bank  that threatened to
shove Greece into the euro zone’s first sovereign default,
softening demands that bondholders be forced to shoulder a big
part of a rescue. Questions remain about how any such burden-
sharing agreement would work without prompting ratings companies
to declare a default and whether Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  can persuade legislators to pass the austerity
measures needed for a bailout.  Forceful Reminder  “We forcefully reminded the Greek government that by the
end of this month they have to see to it that we are all
convinced that all the commitments they made are fulfilled,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters
early today after chairing a euro-crisis meeting in Luxembourg.  European governments failed to agree on releasing a loan
payout to spare Greece from default, ramping up pressure on
Papandreou to first deliver budget cuts in the face of domestic
opposition and leaving open whether the country will get the
full 12 billion euros ($17.1 billion) promised for July.  Decisions on the next payout and a three-year follow-up
package were put off until early next month.  A Greek sovereign default could lead to insolvency of the
country’s banks and a liquidity crisis as a result of a run on
deposits,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a June 15 report.  Insolvency Fears  Concern that Greece is lurching toward insolvency drove the
48-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
to a one-year low today and lifted the cost of insuring against
default on the sovereign debt of Greece, Ireland and Portugal
close to record levels last week.  The cost of insuring Greek debt saw the biggest weekly
increase last week, while credit-default swaps on  National Bank
of Greece SA (ETE) , the country’s biggest bank, rose to a record,
according to CMA, a data provider owned by CME Group Inc. that
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Banks led an increase in the cost of protecting European
corporate bonds from default, with the Markit iTraxx Financial
Index of credit-default swaps on subordinated debt rising 7
basis points to 296.5 as of 11 a.m. in London, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Analysts say contagion following a Greek default could play
out like this: Refinancing costs for Ireland, Portugal, Spain
and possibly Italy and  Belgium  would soar, thwarting efforts to
rein in public deficits and putting states under pressure to
restructure their debt as well; banks in countries with weak
finances could face a run by depositors, while other lenders
would see their capital eroded by credit writedowns; investors
would shun equity markets and the euro and seek the safest
securities. In a worst-case scenario, panic could freeze credit
markets, as happened after the bankruptcy of New York-based
 Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  Market ‘Massacre’  “If, after a year of discussion without conclusion, we
conclude there will be a haircut, the next morning the market
will massacre Ireland, Portugal and maybe other countries,”
 Federico Ghizzoni , 55, chief executive officer of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
told journalists in Vienna June 16, referring to a Greek
default.  The concern is already having an impact on European banks.
 BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  France ’s biggest bank, and rivals  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  may have their credit ratings
cut by Moody’s Investors Service because of their investments in
Greece, the ratings company said on June 15. German banks could
also be at risk from contagion,  Fitch Ratings  said last month.  Infection Risk  Merkel, 56, said on June 17 she would work with the ECB to
get Greek creditors to participate in a rescue on a voluntary
basis, seeking to appease ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet , 68,
who contends that any compulsory move to involve bondholders
would trigger a default. The ECB doesn’t accept defaulted debt
as collateral when providing the cash banks in Greece, Portugal
and elsewhere depend on after being shut out of credit markets.  Merkel said June 18 in Berlin that policy makers must make
sure the Greek crisis doesn’t infect the rest of the euro region
and spark a new global financial crisis.  “We all lived through Lehman Brothers,” she told a
meeting of activists from her ruling  Christian Democrat  party.
“I don’t want another such threat to emanate from Europe. We
wouldn’t be able to control an insolvency.”  The risk that euro-area banks holding Greek  government
bonds  will be saddled with losses increased after S&P slapped
Greece with the world’s lowest sovereign credit rating June 13.  Lehman Legacy  Greece should “absolutely not default,”  Josef Ackermann ,
CEO of Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , said in a June 17
interview in  St. Petersburg ,  Russia . The EU needs to provide
more aid to the country if required, he said.  Ackermann, 63, told CNBC the same day that the risk of a
Greek default lies in “what is going to happen in other markets
and what is going to happen in other countries,” concluding
that “no one has a clear answer.”  Ackermann knows about contagion firsthand. He told an
audience in  Frankfurt ’s Congress Center in September 2007 that
risks from the U.S. subprime mortgage market were
“manageable.” The crisis spread to other markets soon after,
leading to more than $2 trillion of losses and writedowns
worldwide and the collapse of Lehman Brothers a year later.  “The worst consequence of any Greek sovereign default for
German and other European banks would be a sharp increase in
general  capital market  and creditor risk aversion at a time when
many banks are still in rehabilitation mode,” Michael Dawson- Kropf, a Frankfurt-based Fitch analyst, said in a May 25 report.  Raising Capital  European banks are more at risk from a “disorderly”
market reaction to Greek debt restructuring than any losses on
their holdings of the country’s bonds, James Longsdon, a
managing director at Fitch, said in an interview in  Seoul  today.
Greek government debt held by European banks isn’t large enough
to trigger an “insolvency event” at the lenders, he said.  European banks have raised 59 billion euros since stress
tests last July, according to calculations by Huw van Steenis,
an analyst at Morgan Stanley.  Independent Credit View, a Swiss ratings company that
predicted Ireland’s banks would need another bailout last year,
said in a stress-test study earlier this month that 33 of
Europe’s biggest banks would need $347 billion of additional
capital by the end of 2012 to boost their tangible common equity
to 10 percent from 9.1 percent at the end of 2010. The group
chose that threshold because it’s about 30 percent above the
average ratio for the past 10 years.  An S&P  stress test  published in March estimated European
banks would need as much as 250 billion euros in fresh capital
if faced with a “sharp” increase in yields and a “severe”
economic decline.  Germany Tops Lenders  French lenders had the highest overall foreign claims on
Greek borrowers of $56.7 billion, including $15 billion in
public debt, at the end of 2010, data from the BIS showed.
French banks had $589.8 billion of loans tied to Ireland, Italy,
Portugal and  Spain .  German lenders were the biggest foreign owners of Greek
government debt with $22.7 billion in holdings last year and had
the second-most overall claims, the BIS said. Their claims on
Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain amounted to $498.8 billion.
The two countries hold more than 60 percent of all foreign
claims on Greece, according to BIS data.  Banks in the two countries have lowered their risk tied to
Greek public debt by 25 percent to $37.6 billion from the end of
March 2010 through December. The main reason for the decline is
companies letting bonds or loans expire without renewing them,
according to Lutz Roehmeyer, who helps manage about $17 billion
at Landesbank Berlin Investment in Berlin. Lenders also have
been writing down the value of Greek holdings, setting aside
provisions and moving assets into so-called bad banks, as well
as selling shares to boost reserves, he said.  Too Big to Shoulder  “The direct hit from Greece is manageable because
investors have had time to prepare, but contagion to other
countries is the big risk,” Roehmeyer said. “If the crisis
spreads to Ireland, Portugal and Spain, it would be too big for
the banks to shoulder.”  The ECB’s total exposure to Greece may be between 130
billion euros and 140 billion euros, Dutch Finance MinisterJan Kees de Jager said earlier this month. The ECB provided 90
billion euros of liquidity to Greek banks, he said.  The ECB is lending unlimited amounts of cash to support
banking systems and has relaxed collateral requirements. In May
2010, it took the unprecedented decision to start buying the
bonds of distressed nations in an effort to calm markets as
Greece’s fiscal woes began to infect other euro-area members.  Credit-Default Swaps  The impact of credit-default swaps, which led to the near-
collapse of American International Group Inc. in 2008, may be
limited in a Greek default. Credit-default swaps on Greek
sovereign debt cover a net notional $5 billion, according to the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a central registry
that captures most trades. That’s only 1 percent of the
government’s $482 billion of bonds and loans outstanding,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Swaps on Italian sovereign debt cover a net notional $25
billion, the most of any country or company in the world,
according to DTCC. That compares with $2.3 trillion of debt.  Most banks have already had to write down the value of
their Greek bond holdings as they have fallen in the market,
said  Florian Esterer , who helps manage more than $60 billion at
Swisscanto Asset Management AG in Zurich.  “The biggest problem that we have is less to do with the
loss of Greece as such and more to do with the question of what
would happen to other countries,” Esterer said. “The risk of
contagion is probably exactly the same as a year ago.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  