-- 
Israeli Facebook Protest Targets Cottage Cheese as Lawmakers Demand Limits

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-06-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/israeli-facebook-protest-targets-cottage-cheese-as-prices-soar.html
Across the Arab world people have
used  Facebook  to organize demonstrations against their regimes.
In  Israel , the social networking site is being used to protest
about the rising cost of cottage cheese.  More than 90,000 Israelis have joined a Facebook group
calling for a boycott of the dairy product whose price is now
almost 8 shekels ($2.33) for a 250-gram container, compared with
4.91 shekels in 2006, when government price supervision was
lifted. The public outcry has prompted Interior Minister Eli
Yishai to request a price-fixing probe and Finance Minister
Yuval Steinitz to threaten permitting dairy imports.  “Every mother and father who buys cottage cheese pays a
lot more than anywhere else in the world,” Carmel Shama-
Hacohen, who heads the parliament’s Economics Committee, said on
 Army Radio  yesterday. “This is a very clear signal for the
government.”  Israelis eat 1.5 billion shekels ($440 million) worth of
cottage cheese a year, according to Shama-Hacohen’s figures.
Sales of the cheese that Israelis most associated with their
country, based on a June 5 survey by the daily Yedioth Ahronoth,
are 70 percent controlled by Tnuva Food Industries Agricultural
Co-Op in Israel Ltd. Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. agreed to buy a
13.5 percent of the company in March.  Tnuva, based in Glil Yam, Israel, isn’t publicly traded.
 Strauss Group Ltd. (STRS) , which shares the remaining 30 percent slice
equally with Tara Dairy according to industry officials, has
fallen 1.5 percent since the protest started, compared with a
1.4 percent drop for the benchmark Tel Aviv Stock Exchange.  Osem
Investments Ltd. (OSEM) , another food manufacturer that doesn’t sell
dairy products, has gained 0.2 percent.  `Intolerable'  A fifth of Strauss’s revenue comes from dairy sales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Petah Tikva ,
Israel-based company trades at 18.9 times estimated 2011
earnings, compared with 7.8 times for its British peer  Dairy
Crest Group Plc (DCG) , the data show.  Shama-Hacohen’s panel is calling on the government to re-
impose price supervision and to establish a parliamentary
committee to investigate food prices and the concentration of
suppliers, according to its e-mailed statement yesterday.  “If it’s true that the price of cottage cheese is double
the price of products in  Europe  and the western world, this is
intolerable,” Finance Minister Steinitz said at an Israeli
economic conference yesterday. “If it doesn’t work itself out,
we will consider a number of steps.”  Britons pay 75 pence ($1.21), or the equivalent of 4.17
shekels, for 300 grams of light cottage cheese at Tesco Plc,
according to the U.K. cost-comparison site mysupermarket.co.uk.
The price was 1.05 pounds for a 235 gram tub at Marks & Spencer
Group Plc stores in  London  yesterday.  Tahrir Square  In Israel, the product is the second-best selling cheese
after soft white cheese, according to the Israel Dairy Board.  The  Manufacturers Association of Israel  rejected
suggestions that the Facebook protest should prompt a policy
rethink.  “Where are we? Tahrir Square?” said Shraga Brosh, head of
the association, refering to the site of the Egyptian protests
that led to the February resignation of President  Hosni Mubarak .
“If we import cheese we will increase unemployment and if we
start importing dairy, let the prime minister import a finance
minister from abroad as well,” Brosh said in remarks broadcast
on Army Radio yesterday.  Israel’s unemployment rate declined to 6 percent in the
first quarter, its lowest level in more than two years. In the
U.S., unemployment rose to 9.1 percent in April, according to
Labor Department figures released June 3.  Regulatory Focus  Food manufacturers have been hit by increasing commodity
costs including fuel, coffee and sugar, pushing up consumer
prices. Excluding fruit and vegetables, food has climbed 5.1
percent in the past 12 months, compared with 4.1 percent for
consumer prices generally, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said.  “Nothing good will come of this” for Strauss, said Tsahi
Avraham, an analyst at Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd. “In the best
case scenario, the regulatory environment will stay the same, in
the worst case it could catch regulatory attention. The dairy
segment is a very profitable segment for Strauss and that is a
risk factor.”  Avraham rates Strauss “market perform” because of
pressure from rising sugar and coffee costs, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  