-- 
Nationalize Standard Bank and Nedbank, South Africa’s Julius Malema Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-06-19T16:41:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/nationalize-standard-bank-and-nedbank-south-africa-s-julius-malema-says.html
Julius Malema , youth leader of South
 Africa ’s ruling  African National Congress , called for the
nationalization of banks including  Standard Bank  Group Ltd.,
Nedbank Ltd. and  First National Bank  to help fund a state
takeover of the country’s mines.  Malema, 30, who on June 17 won a second term as  ANC Youth
League  President, said the group’s demands to nationalize the
country’s mines could not be met unless banks came under state
control and provided funding.  “We must fight to control FNB, Standard Bank, Nedbank,”
Malema said today, on the last of the four days of a Youth
League elective conference. “Without these banks
nationalization will not succeed. If you do not nationalize the
financial sector, the financial sector will hold back
resources.”  Under Malema, the Youth League has called for the
nationalization of mines, banks and land to combat youth
unemployment, poverty and inequality in Africa’s biggest
economy. Their drive has helped depress shares in companies
such as  Anglo American Plc (AGL)  and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the
continent’s biggest producer of the metal, said Patrice Rassou,
who helps manage about 330 billion rand ($48.6 billion),
including AngloGold and Anglo American shares, at  Cape Town ’s
Sanlam Investment Management.  Political Fortunes  South Africa has the world’s biggest deposits of platinum,
chrome and manganese. Standard Bank is Africa’s largest lender,
while First National is owned by  Firstrand Ltd. (FSR)  Barclays Bank
Plc holds a stake in  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)   “I expect the financial markets to counter track the rise
and fall of Julius Malema’s political fortunes,” Nic Borain, an
independent political consultant, who advises companies
including London-based  Religare Capital Markets Ltd. , said on
June 17. “The financial markets are deeply concerned about
nationalization.”  South Africa ’s government has repeatedly said
nationalization isn’t official policy. Still, the ANC has
appointed independent economists to investigate different
options of increasing state involvement in mining before the end
of the year.  The panel was set up to “intellectually legitimize” the
rejection of any nationalization policies, said  Aubrey Matshiqi ,
a research fellow at the Johannesburg-based Helen Suzman
Foundation.  Democratic Framework  The panel’s research “mustn’t contradict the Freedom
Charter” or face opposition from the Youth League, Malema said,
referring to a landmark statement of intent by the ANC, which in
1955 called for minerals, banks and other monopoly industries to
be transferred to the people as a whole.  Malema said economic transformation would remain within the
framework of “democratic institutions”. “We’ve got political
power,” he said. “We need to use those institutions to change
the property relations in South Africa.”  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll 
said on Feb. 8 that giving private mines to the state in South
Africa would be “the road to ruin,” because international
investors would pull funding from the country.  Malema has also played on South Africa’s racial tensions,
saying that whites, who prospered under minority rule until
1994, “feel threatened by the aspirations” of those demanding
that everyone benefits from the country’s natural wealth
equally. Malema said demanding that the black majority benefits
more from an economy controlled by whites isn’t racist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 