-- 
NATO Probing Libyan Claims of Civilian Deaths

-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-06-19T19:12:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/nato-investigating-claims-by-libya-of-civilian-deaths-in-tripoli-bombing.html
NATO said it was investigating
reports of the deaths of several civilians in an airstrike on
Tripoli in  Libya , shortly after confirming it had accidentally
bombed a rebel column in Brega.  A missile strike today destroyed a house in the Souk al-
Gomaa residential area, killing nine civilians including two
children and wounding 18 others, Libyan Foreign Minister Abdul
Ati Al-Obeidi said at a press conference in Tripoli. He called
on Muslims to initiate a “global Jihad” against the West.  NATO said in an e-mailed statement that it was
investigating the missile strike. NATO earlier confirmed that
its aircraft mistakenly hit a column of rebel military vehicles
on June 16 near the Libyan oil port of Brega.  “NATO has looked into reports of an airstrike that hit
opposition forces in the area of Brega and can confirm that NATO
aircraft hit military vehicles,” the  North Atlantic Treaty
Organization  said in a statement on its website today. “We
regret any possible loss of life or injuries caused by this
unfortunate incident.”  While repeated similar incidents would cause
“difficulties,” there probably isn’t very much pressure from
NATO members who are politically opposed to the organization’s
involvement, Richard Ottaway, chairman of the U.K. parliament’s
Foreign Affairs Select Committee, said in a television interview
with BBC News today.  Growing Opposition  Opposition has been growing in the U.S. and  Europe  to the
United Nations-mandated aerial campaign against Muammar Qaddafi’s forces, which is intended to protect civilians. Four
months after the uprising against Qaddafi began, rebel troops
have failed to take and hold strategic towns such as Brega while
other cities, such as the rebel-held port city of Misrata,
remain under siege by loyalist forces.  Violence in the region has helped push up  oil prices , with
futures up 22 percent from a year ago.  Libyan officials today took reporters to the site of the
alleged airstrike to tour the collapsed building. Strewn amidst
the rubble were clean clothes and white diapers free of dust.
The building appeared to have been unfinished before its
collapse and was pock-marked by small holes. Across the street,
plastered repairs done to a wall with similar holes were dry.  Clean Clothes, Diapers  The building is located in a district close to Souk al-
Gomaa, where the opposition to Qaddafi says an uprising against
him took place in March. It was not possible to independently
verify the Libyan claims that the building was destroyed by a
bomb.  A Syrian family of four, including two children, died in
the Tripoli attack, Syrian state television reported.  “NATO has conducted strikes in Tripoli in the last 24
hours and we are aware of the allegations made by Libyan state
TV and we are looking into the matter,” said NATO Spokesman
Wing Commander Mike Bracken. “Any reports of civilian
casualties are taken very seriously.”  In the U.S., the White House has come under pressure from
politicians including House Speaker  John Boehner , who accused
President  Barack Obama  of trying to “conceal” a  Justice
Department  opinion that the U.S. mission in Libya needs
congressional authorization to continue.  Congressional Authorization   The Ohio Republican released a statement early yesterday
after Obama declined in a letter to Boehner to address the
Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel’s views on whether
the War Powers Resolution of 1973 applies to the mission. The
administration produced a report on June 15 saying the U.S. is
serving a support role to the NATO-led mission, and is not
engaged in the “hostilities” that require the backing of
Congress.  Italy may consider setting a cutoff date for its
participation in the NATO mission in Libya, Defense Minister
Ignazio La Russa said in an interview published yesterday by the
daily  Corriere della Sera . The move may “serve as a stimulus”
to the U.S.,  France  and the U.K. to find a diplomatic solution
to the crisis, he said.  U.K. Costs  U.K. Treasury Minister  Danny Alexander  said Britain’s
military operations in Libya are costing “hundreds of
millions” of pounds.  “The campaign is costing tens of millions, potentially
into the hundreds of millions, as it goes on, but that money is
coming from the reserve that we have set aside precisely for
contingencies such as this,” Alexander said in a television
interview on Sky News today. “It doesn’t have an effect on any
other spending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Tripoli at  mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 