-- 
NATO Says Libya Bombing May Have Killed Civilians; U.K. Advises Syria Exit

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-06-19T21:07:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/nato-says-libya-bombing-may-have-killed-civilians-u-k-advises-syria-exit.html
NATO warplanes didn’t all hit
intended targets in Tripoli and may have killed civilians, the
alliance said in an e-mailed statement after Libyan Foreign
Minister Abdul Ati Al-Obeidi said yesterday that a private house
in Tripoli had been hit, causing several deaths.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization said that, while the
intended target was a military missile site, “it appears that
one weapon did not strike the intended target” and may have
caused “a number of civilian casualties,” an e-mailed
statement from NATO said.  “NATO regrets the loss of innocent civilian lives and takes
great care in conducting strikes against a regime determined to
use violence against its own citizens,” said NATO commander
Lieutenant General Charles Bouchard. The incident is still under
investigation, he said in the NATO statement.  The missile strike destroyed a house in the Souk al-
Gomaa residential area, killing nine civilians and wounding 18
others, Obeidi said. Four members of a Syrian family, including
two children, died in the attack, Syrian state television
reported. Eight rebels were killed and 36 injured in combat with
troops loyal to Qaddafi west of Misrata yesterday, Al Jazeera
reported.  Opposition has been growing in the U.S. and  Europe  to the
United Nations-mandated aerial campaign against Muammar
Qaddafi’s forces, which is intended to protect civilians. Four
months after the uprising against Qaddafi began, rebel troops
have failed to take and hold strategic towns such as Brega while
other cities, such as the rebel-held port city of Misrata,
remain under siege by loyalist forces.  Violence in the region has helped push up  oil prices , with
futures up 22 percent from a year ago.  Qaddafi Weakening  Qaddafi’s troops are beginning to weaken, according to
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates . The U.S. will continue to
support the NATO-led mission in  Libya  until Qaddafi is removed
from power, Gates said yesterday in interviews on  CNN ’s “State
of the Union” program and “Fox News Sunday.”  “The allies are prepared to sustain this,” Gates said on
CNN. “Qaddafi will eventually fail.”  In  Syria , President Bashar al-Assad will make a speech at
noon local time today concerning the current situation in his
country, state television reported without citing anyone.  Protests against the Syrian ruler began in mid-March, part
of demonstrations across the  Middle East  and North Africa this
year that have unseated the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia .  Unrelenting Crackdown  The U.K. advised all British nationals to leave Syria
immediately over the weekend amid an unrelenting
government crackdown on pro-democracy protesters that has killed
more than 1,200 people, according to the Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights.  The head of the  International Committee of the Red Cross  is
scheduled to arrive in Damascus today to discuss measures to aid
Syrian refugees,  Al Jazeera  reported.  “Syria is going through an era of unrest, but the Obama
administration won’t be able to blackmail Syria,” Syrian
Ambassador to the U.S. Emad Mustafa told Al-Khaleej newspaper.
“It’s a golden opportunity for Washington to blackmail Syria in
an attempt to get concessions.”  The Syrian government distinguishes between the peaceful
protesters and the armed groups and Assad “will address all
these things in his speech tomorrow,” he said.  Turkish Border  Syrian troops combing through villages near the Turkish
border set fire to homes and a bakery yesterday, according to
the AP. Activists said the military carried out mass arrests and
threw up checkpoints to block residents from fleeing.  Ersat Hurmuzlu, senior adviser to Turkish President
Addullah Gul, told Al-Arabiya that  Turkey  would welcome Maher
Al-Assad, brother of the Syrian president, in Turkey if that
would help solve the crisis in Syria.  “We are looking forward to Assad’s speech tomorrow,” he
said.  Yemeni religious clerics have called for President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s ouster, joining demands from protesters that
the embattled leader to step down.  The clerics urged Vice President Abed Rabbo Mansur Hadi to
establish a caretaker government to run the country and prepare
for presidential elections in 60 days, according to a statement
e-mailed June 18 and signed by 110 clerics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in  Washington  at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 