-- 
Nintendo May Fail to Replicate Wii Success as IPhone Games Bloom

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-06-19T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/nintendo-may-fail-to-replicate-wii-success-as-iphone-games-bloom.html
Takaki Kawatsu, a 33-year-old real
estate agent, says he’ll be among Nintendo Co. customers who
will pass on the company’s next Wii game console.  “I bought the original Wii because it was popular, new and
seemed like a great item to have at a party,” said Kawatsu, who
owned the game console for four years before selling it three
months ago. “This time, there is nothing surprising or fresh.”  Kawatsu, who now prefers to play games on his  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
iPhone, illustrates why analysts say the Wii U will probably
fail to replicate the original Wii’s success. Nintendo, facing
mounting competition from mobile games such as “Angry Birds”
and “Farmville” on Facebook, has tumbled 13 percent to a five-
year low in Osaka trading since it unveiled the new console at
the Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles this month.  “They’ve been losing their core customer,” said  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Morgan Securities in Los Angeles,
about Nintendo. “The 45-year-old housewife who bought Wii Fit
is playing Farmville, and those in the handheld casual market
are playing on the iPad and smartphones.”  The world’s largest maker of video-game players this month
said the Wii U will go on sale next year, though it didn’t
disclose the price. Sales may peak at about 30 million units,
less than half of the original Wii, Pachter said.  A $200 tag would help the Wii U sell “phenomenally well,”
while at $500 it wouldn’t do well, Pachter said. The Wii costs
$150.  You Had to Be There  President Satoru Iwata demonstrated the Wii U on June 7 at
the E3 show in  Los Angeles . The presentation focused on the
console’s controller, the centerpiece of Nintendo’s device,
according to executives at the Kyoto-based company.  “The excitement generated by the console may be difficult
to understand for those who weren’t lined up at our booth at the
E3 show,” said Yasuhiro Minagawa, a spokesman at Kyoto-based
Nintendo. Minagawa declined to comment on the sales outlook for
the new player.  The Wii U controller has a front-facing camera, a 6.2-inch
touch screen, shoulder firing pads, an expansion slot and game
controls on a flat pad. With it, users are able to wirelessly
connect to the console and shift content back and forth from a
large screen in the living room to the smaller screen.  In February, Nintendo began selling in  Japan  its 3DS
handheld player that beams images in three dimensions without
the need for special viewing glasses.  Sony Corp. (6758)  plans to begin
sales of its PlayStation Vita portable player this year.  Pig-Toppling Rival  Nintendo is also facing new rivals who are beginning to
redefine the market.  Among them is Cupertino, California-based Apple, which says
it’s sold more than 200 million devices capable of downloading
and playing games, including 25 million iPads. The  App Store , an
Apple-run software marketplace, offers a choice of more than
100,000 game and entertainment applications to users of the
iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch.  Angry Birds, a popular mobile-phone game where players
slingshot birds at pigs hiding behind barricaded wood and stone
barricades, is aiming for 100 million downloads in  China  alone.  Nintendo’s traditional competitors are also catching up.
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  sold more than 10 million motion-sensing Kinect
devices within four months of its introduction in November 2010.
The $150 machine’s two cameras and infrared projector capture
body movements to play games.  Sony, Microsoft Catch Up  Sony, whose PlayStation machine dominated the previous
generation of game consoles, shipped 8 million of its motion-
sensing Move devices, it said in April. The black controller
with a colored ball in front requires a separate camera to
detect player movement.  Sony, the world’s second-largest maker of portable game
players, this month unveiled the PlayStation Vita and said it
will sell for $250, same as Nintendo’s 3DS. The Vita will
feature a five-inch display using organic light emitting diode,
or OLED, technology, a rear touch pad and play titles including
“Uncharted: Golden Abyss” and “LittleBigPlanet.”  Investors are taking note of the competition.  Nintendo fell 2.4 percent to 15,230 yen on June 17, the
lowest close since Jan. 19, 2006. The shares have tumbled 36
percent this year compared with Apple’s 0.7 percent drop, a 13
percent decline for Microsoft and a 32 percent slump for Sony.  “It’s beginning to look like Nintendo is falling behind
the times,” said Tomoaki Kawasaki, an analyst at Cosmo
Securities Co. with a "neutral" rating on Nintendo. “The
company is probably overdue for a business model change.”  Lone ‘Sell’  Most analysts aren’t as pessimistic. Half of the 24 brokers
tracked by Bloomberg rate Nintendo a "buy." Eleven rate the
stock "hold" and Citigroup Inc. is the lone “sell,” according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The new concept covers areas where the Wii was lacking,
such as images in high definition, so it should expand the
potential user base,” said Yuuta Sakurai, a Tokyo-based analyst
at Nomura Securities Co. who’s rated Nintendo "buy" since March
2000. “Wii U has potential” to repeat its predecessor’s
success."  In April, Nintendo forecast net income will rise 42 percent
to 110 billion yen ($1.4 billion) in the year to March 2012,
missing analysts’ estimates for 143.8 billion yen at the time.
The projection doesn’t include sales of the new Wii, the company
said then. A gain would be the first in three years.  Still, a revival in earnings won’t help Nintendo lure back
Kawatsu, who now uses an iPhone to play Mahjong during train
rides. The new Wii isn’t appealing to him.  “It’s like a cross between the iPad and PlayStation
Portable,” said Kawatsu. “I won’t buy it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in  Tokyo  at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 