-- 
Nokia to Outline Plans for ‘Forgotten’ Asia as Apple Gains

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-06-20T10:20:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/nokia-to-outline-plans-for-forgotten-asia-as-apple-zte-gain.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Elop, seeking to stem market-share losses to cheap
Android smartphones and unbranded handsets, will get his first
opportunity tomorrow to win back Asian customers.  Elop will lay out the company’s strategy and show customers
new models at  Nokia Connection 2011  tomorrow in Singapore,
according to the company. It will be his first major speech in
Asia since the former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  executive became CEO.  After spending his first months devising a plan to fight
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and phones equipped with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android in  Europe  and the U.S., Elop may be turning his focus to
fending off Samsung Electronics Co. and  ZTE Corp. (000063)  in  Asia . At
stake: a region that’s home to the world’s two biggest phone
markets and where growth is projected to exceed 40 percent over
the next four years.  “Due to their race with Apple, there was so much focus on
the developed markets that this idea of producing and selling
affordable handsets was really lost,” said Boris Boehm, who
helps manage 1.2 billion euros ($1.7 billion), including Nokia
shares at Aramea Asset Management in Hamburg. “They really
forgot Asia.”  During his nine months as CEO, Elop has announced more than
8,800 job cuts, including outsourcing agreements, and said the
company will replace its Symbian smartphone software with
Microsoft’s Windows Phone 7 operating system to revive the
world’s largest mobile phone maker by units.  Shares Decline  Investors aren’t convinced. Since he was named CEO Sept.
10, Nokia has fallen more than 40 percent in Helsinki and is
trading near 13-year lows. The stock slipped 10 cents, or 2.4
percent, to 4.13 euros at 1:17 p.m. in Helsinki.  While  China  led Nokia’s markets in the first quarter with a
30-percent  sales  increase, the company said May 31 it was facing
intensifying competition from local suppliers in the country,
driving down prices. China and the Asia-Pacific region accounted
for 45 percent of Nokia’s device sales in the first quarter, the
manufacturer said in April.  That hasn’t stopped the slide. Its share in China tumbled
to 20.4 percent last year from 31.5 percent in 2009 and in
 India , Nokia dropped to 30.2 percent from 48.9 percent in one
year, according to estimates at Gartner Inc.  Sales of mobile phones in Asia will probably reach 1.27
billion units in 2015, or half of the global market for
handsets, according to Anshul Gupta, an analyst at Gartner in
Mumbai. Sales this year are forecast to be 900 million units.  ‘Hugely Important’  Nokia will also be participating in the  CommunicAsia 
conference, an gathering of telecommunications industry in Asia,
for the first time in a decade, according to the program’s
organizers.  “It’s a hugely important market for us,” Executive Vice
President Colin Giles said. “We introduced our first phone
specially designed for the Asian market 14 years ago. It was
small, had a full graphics display and featured many Asian
languages from Chinese to Thai to Bahasa. We have not looked
back since.”  Globally, Nokia’s shipments fell 2.3 percent in the first
quarter, driving down its  market share  more than 5 percentage
points to 25.1 percent, according to Gartner. Apple boosted its
share to 3.9 percent, ZTE to 2.3 percent and HTC to 2.2 percent.  By revenue, Nokia was overtaken last quarter by Cupertino,
California-based Apple as the industry leader.  Samsung, HTC  Nokia, which this month won a patent suit against Apple,
may ship fewer smartphones than Samsung and the maker of the
iPhone this quarter as part of a bigger “shift in power to
Asia,” Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts including  Stuart Jeffrey 
wrote in a report this month.  Asian handset makers are also taking a share of the $138
billion smartphone market as 3G data use picks up in China and
India, Nomura said.  Samsung,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)  are among
companies that use the Android software, which Google provides
free to manufacturers.  “Until competitive new products launch, it’s hard to see
how management can arrest this decline,” Jeffrey wrote.  Steps are afoot to capitalize on Asia’s growth.  In March, Nokia said it plans to open a plant in  Vietnam 
with an initial investment of 200 million euros to make low-end
phones. The company expects to make “further sizeable
investments” in the future, and aims to start the factory next
year.  Nokia currently manufactures low-end phones in countries
including Brazil, China, India, Hungary, Romania and Mexico. It
makes smartphones in  Finland , China and  South Korea .  The company has also invested in developing money transfer,
news and education services specialized for rural users in
emerging markets.  “If you lose the emerging markets from your focus, it’s
natural that the domestic companies would be able to overtake
you in market share,” said investor Boehm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  