-- 
Home Sales Probably Dropped to Year’s Low: U.S. Economy Preview

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-06-19T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/home-sales-probably-dropped-to-year-s-low-u-s-economy-preview.html
Home sales probably dropped in May
to the lowest level of the year, while orders placed with
factories climbed, showing housing remains a soft spot as other
parts of the  U.S. economy  recover, economists said before
reports this week.  Purchases of new and existing houses decreased 4.8 percent
to a 5.11 million annual rate last month, the weakest since
November, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may show bookings for
goods made to last at least three years increased after falling
in April by the most in six months.  A jobless rate hovering around 9 percent means it will take
years to absorb the 1.8 million distressed properties on the
market that are weighing down home values, one reason why
Federal Reserve policy makers are likely to maintain record
stimulus when they meet this week. Manufacturers, on the other
hand, may soon recover from the supply disruptions following the
disaster in  Japan  and help underpin the world’s largest economy.  “The outlook for the housing data remains very weak, and
there’s been very little evidence of any turnaround,” said
 David Semmens , a U.S. economist at Standard Chartered Bank in
 New York . “We’ve obviously seen some slowdown in manufacturing
due to the supply-chain issues in Japan. That will work itself
out through the second half.”  Sales of existing homes, due from the National Association
of Realtors on June 21, fell 5 percent to a 4.8 million annual
pace, according to the median forecast of 55 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Depressed Demand  After peaking at 7.08 million in 2005, the number of
existing homes purchased in 2010 plunged to 4.91 million, a 13-
year low. Nonetheless, they now comprise about 94 percent of the
housing market, up from about 85 percent six years ago, as
foreclosures and distressed sales lure some buyers.  The 1.8 million of inventory of distressed homes nationwide
would take about three years to sell at the current pace,  Daren Blomquist , communications manager at RealtyTrac Inc., said last
week.  Competition from existing homes selling at discounted
prices is hurting builders. Sales of new properties dropped 4
percent in May to a 310,000 annual pace, economists said ahead
of a June 23 report from the Commerce Department. A record-low
323,000 new homes were sold last year.  Manufacturing, which makes up 12 percent of the economy, is
struggling to recover from the effects of the earthquake and
tsunami in Japan after being one of the bright spots in the
recovery that began two years ago.  Durable Goods  Orders for durable goods, those designed to last at least
three years, increased 1.6 percent in May after dropping 3.6
percent the prior month, economists surveyed by Bloomberg said
ahead of Commerce Department data June 24. Excluding volatile
bookings for transportation gear, orders probably climbed 1
percent after falling 1.6 percent, the survey showed.  Gains in business investment in new equipment and demand
from emerging economies like  China ,  Brazil  and  Mexico  are
helping bolster factories. American exports in April rose to the
highest level on record.  Industrial companies have outperformed homebuilders this
year. The Standard & Poor’s Industrial Machinery Index has
gained 0.9 percent this year, compared with a 6.2 percent
decline for the S&P 500 Homebuilding Index.  Expanding Capacity  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, said last week it would invest an additional $70
million at a hydraulic excavator plant and create about 100 more
jobs in Victoria,  Texas . Production at the plant is slated to
begin in mid-2012, according to a June 17 statement from the
Peoria, Illinois-based company.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has been among those
forecasting that the recent slowdown in growth will prove
temporary as commodity prices retreat. At the same time, the
central bank should maintain record stimulus to bolster a
“frustratingly slow” recovery, he said this month. Officials
are scheduled to meet in Washington on June 21-22 to determine
the course of policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  