-- 
London House Asking Prices Increase to Record as Demand Spreads to Suburbs

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-20T08:02:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/london-asking-prices-reach-record-as-homebuyers-move-to-suburbs.html
London  home sellers raised asking
prices to a record in June as demand from overseas buyers for
luxury properties in the capital’s center began to “spill
over” into some suburbs, Rightmove Plc said.  Average prices in London jumped 1.8 percent from May to
438,622 pounds ($707,673), the London-based operator of the
U.K.’s biggest property website said in a report today.
Nationally, values increased 0.6 percent, according to
Rightmove, which added it doesn’t expect gains to be sustained.  While Britain’s property market is struggling to build
momentum as banks limit lending and budget cuts undermine
confidence, the exception is London where foreign buyers are
seeking homes in areas such as Kensington and Chelsea. Rightmove
said a lack of mortgages and a seasonal slowdown means national
values will probably fall about 7 percent in the second half
after an 8.1 percent gain in the first six months.  “With the best areas ‘going international’ and moving out
of many Londoners’ reach, the next rung down starts to look
compelling in terms of value,”  Miles Shipside , commercial
director at Rightmove, said in the report. “There will be
strong demand from those who want to invest in good quality
property further out of the center.”  The pound fell 0.4 percent against the dollar and was
trading at $1.6135 as of 8:46 a.m. in London.  Regional Prices  Homes valued at more than 1 million pounds in London’s
Kensington and Chelsea and Westminster areas led price gains in
recent months. That has now changed, with suburbs further out
now posting the largest annual increases, Rightmove said. Out of
the 32 London boroughs tracked by the company, Brent, Tower
Hamlets and Merton led gains on the month, while Wandsworth and
Hounslow were among the best performers from a year earlier.  In a separate report today, Markit Economics said Britons’
expectations of  house prices  over the next year turned positive
this month for the first time since September. Londoners were
the most likely to anticipate an increase in the value of their
property, it said.  From a year ago, London prices are up 2.1 percent, while
across the U.K., values are 1.1 percent higher, Rightmove said.  Five of 10 regions in England and  Wales  tracked by
Rightmove showed gains on the month, led by a 2.2 percent
increase in East Anglia. The East Midlands area had the largest
decline, with a 3.2 percent drop from May.  Consumer Squeeze  British households are under pressure from the government’s
fiscal squeeze and as wage growth fails to keep up with
inflation.  The Engineering Employers’ Federation said in a report
today that pay growth at manufacturers accelerated in the three
months through May. Still, the data shows it is lagging
inflation that was at 4.5 percent in May, more than twice the
Bank of England’s target.  The average pay settlement increased to 2.6 percent from a
2.5 percent gain in the quarter through April, the London-based
EEF said. Its data cover 233 pay settlements affecting 39,881
employees.  Markit said Britons’ finances deteriorated at the fastest
pace since March 2009 this month. A gauge of household finances
fell to 35.1 from 36 in May, a survey of about 1,500 people by
Ipsos MORI between June 8 and June 14 showed. A reading below 50
indicates contraction. Markit began the monthly study in
February 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  