-- 
London Underground Drivers End First Strike as Wimbledon Tournament Begins

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-06-20T04:40:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/london-underground-drivers-to-strike-from-9-p-m-rmt-union-says.html
London  Underground drivers ended the
first of four strikes early today to protest the dismissal of a
union activist, coinciding with the start of the Wimbledon
tennis tournament.  The strike began at 9 p.m. local time yesterday and was
scheduled to end at 3 a.m. today, Geoff Martin, a spokesman for
the Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers union, said by
telephone last night. The plan involves all union members who
drive trains on the city’s subway system, known as the Tube.  The British Broadcasting Corp. reported the six-hour strike
had been carried out.  The walkout was the first of four strikes coinciding with
the  Wimbledon Tennis Championships  in London, which run from
today until July 3. The RMT represents 80,000 transportation
workers.  Transport for London, the city agency that manages
transportation services in the U.K. capital, expects “minimal
disruption” to today’s services, an official, who declined to
be identified because of the organization’s policy, said by
telephone last night. Tube services will resume at 6 a.m. after
the normal shutdown at midnight, the official said.  Additional walkouts are proposed for June 27, June 29 and
July 1,  according to the RMT . The union said on June 9 that it
called the strikes over the firing of activist Arwyn Thomas.
Transport for London said it was holding an employment tribunal
for the dismissed driver and would reinstate him if the tribunal
requested it.  Tennis Grand Slam  The union has said the strike schedule is connected to the
expiration period on members’ authorization votes and isn’t
aimed at the tennis Grand Slam tournament.  “We will see how the situation develops over the next few
hours,” Martin said, commenting on the potential impact of the
strike on morning services today. “We’re not making any
predictions.”  The RMT is also targeting the Heathrow Express, a train
service that shuttles travelers between central London’s
Paddington station and  Heathrow Airport , the nation’s largest.
The union objects to a pay offer for Heathrow Express employees
that it says would not keep pace with inflation.  On June 27, industrial action on the Tube starts at 9:01
p.m. and runs until 11:59 a.m. the next day. On June 29, it
starts at noon and runs until 11:59 a.m. June 30, and the July 1
strike starts at noon and runs until 9 p.m. that night. The
Heathrow Express strike runs from 9:15 a.m. June 26 to 9:14 a.m.
June 27. The union is also asking members not to work overtime
or extra hours for two other 24-hour periods.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Harrison at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net  