-- 
Hong Kong May Intensify Property Measures Amid Increasing Risk, Tsang Says

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-06-19T09:59:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/hong-kong-may-intensify-property-measures-amid-increasing-risk-tsang-says.html
Hong Kong ’s government may take more
measures to curb property-price gains in the city as "risks" are
rising, Financial Secretary John Tsang said.  “The current market situation is abnormal," Tsang wrote in
his official blog  today . "It is difficult to predict the outlook
of the property market but one thing for sure is that risks are
increasing continuously," he said. "We have no hesitation to
increase the intensity of measures if necessary.”  Senior government officials have in the past year warned of
an asset bubble in the Chinese city, where home prices have
surged more than 70 percent since the start of 2009 on record
low  interest rates  and an influx of buyers from other parts of
 China . Since late 2009, the government has raised minimum down
payments for mortgage borrowers, increased land supply and
imposed additional transaction taxes to curb real estate value.  “The government measures were not intended to bring down
the  property market ,” Tsang said. “I am aware of some public
concerns that the property market may soon enter a downward
cycle and that more drastic measures may lead to a hard
landing.”  Hong Kong’s "soaring" real-estate market may be at risk of
a “sharp correction,”  Standard & Poor’s  said on June 15. The
city’s Chief Executive Donald Tsang said on June 17 home prices
are "quite frightening’’ as China’s growing wealth fuels
increases of 2 percent a month. Tsang also said the government
may introduce more measures to slow the property market.  New Rules  The most recent measures, announced on June 10, include
requiring borrowers whose income is primarily from outside Hong
Kong to deposit an extra 10 percent when they buy properties
unless they can demonstrate a “close connection” to the city.  Hong Kong’s peg to the  U.S. dollar  means the city follows
interest rates set by the  Federal Reserve , which has held its
benchmark rate at a range of zero and 0.25 percent since
December 2008.  Donald Tsang’s government may unveil a plan to resume the
construction of government-subsidized housing, known as the Home
Ownership Scheme, the  Hong Kong Economic Times  reported on June
18, citing people it didn’t identify.  The property market has been “volatile” since November
and there are signs of “renewed exuberance” after the market
cooled down in March and April,  Norman Chan , the chief executive
of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the city’s de facto central
bank, said in a June 10 briefing announcing the latest measures.
Chan earlier warned about the risk of a “credit-fueled property
bubble.”  Home prices  dropped 1.01 percent in the week ended June 12,
the biggest weekly decline in six months, according to Centaline
Property Agency Ltd, Hong Kong’s biggest privately held realtor.
Savills Plc ranks the city as the most expensive place in the
world to buy an apartment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  