-- 
Papandreou Pleads for Greek Unity Before Confidence Vote on His Government

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-06-19T14:43:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/papandreou-pleads-for-greek-unity-before-confidence-vote-on-his-government.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  fended off calls for elections from opposition
parties in parliament and appealed for support to push through
austerity measures to secure additional funding and avert a
“catastrophic” default.  “The country is at a critical crossroads,” Papandreou
told parliament in Athens today, kicking off a three-day debate
on a confidence motion in his new government. “It is in our
hands to change the situation and that is our commitment.”  He called for the vote last week as the opposition rejected
overtures for national consensus and his handling of the crisis
led to defections from his party. Two ruling socialist lawmakers
resigned on June 16, prompting Papandreou’s party to demand an
emergency meeting and stoking investor concern that his grip was
slipping and the chance of default growing.  Greece  needs to secure parliamentary approval of a 78
billion-euro ($112 billion) package of budget cuts to ensure the
payment of a fifth loan under last year’s 110 billion-euro
bailout as European Union finance ministers meet today to debate
the terms of a new funding package of a similar size.  Papandreou said dealing with the country’s debt to avoid
“sudden death” should unite Greece’s political parties. “The
new government has a duty to complete the talks,” he said.  Opposition  Antonis Samaras, leader of  New Democracy , the largest
opposition party, repeated his call for elections.  “We are being asked to give support to a government that
only a few days ago was squabbling among itself,” he said.
“You have lost the confidence of the Greek people.”  Papandreou on June 17 named Evangelos Venizelos as his
finance minister to secure support from his allies, amid
increasing criticism of new budget-deficit cuts. Papandreou now
has 155 seats in the 300-seat chamber.  More than 47 percent of 1,208 Greeks surveyed by Kapa
Research SA for  To Vima  newspaper oppose the measures, which
include sales of state-owned companies, higher taxes on
restaurants and new “crisis levies” on wages, and want early
elections. Almost 35 percent said the package should be
approved.  Unions have called strikes against the measures and
protests outside the Parliament House are held on a daily basis.
Papandreou said today he would call a referendum later this year
on changes to the country’s political system and constitution to
allay demonstrators’ concerns.  The debate on the motion began today and will end on June
21, two days before EU leaders meet to approve aid that will
shield Greece from record borrowing costs for as many as three
years. A new demonstration is planned for outside the Parliament
House as lawmakers vote on the motion at midnight on June 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net . 