-- 
Philippines’ Inflation Target Still at Risk, Central Bank’s Tetangco Says

-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 
2011-06-19T06:41:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/philippines-inflation-target-still-at-risk-central-bank-s-tetangco-says.html
The  Philippines  still faces risks
from inflation and the central bank is closely watching inflows
and liquidity levels, Governor Amando Tetangco said today.  “There are still risks that can affect inflation, but
right now we would like to first assess the impact of the
measures we have adopted,” Tetangco told reporters in Laguna
province, south of Manila. The inflation target of 3 percent to
5 percent in 2011 is “still at risk,” prompting policymakers
to raise banks’ reserve requirement ratio this month, he said.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on June 16 ordered lenders to
set aside more money as reserves while keeping its overnight
rate unchanged at 4.5 percent, after raising the benchmark by a
combined half a percentage point in its two previous meetings.
Higher food and oil prices have prompted policymakers in  Asia  to
increase borrowing costs and their currencies to gain to combat
inflation even amid prospects of slowing global growth.  The central bank’s recent actions are “part of the
normalization of monetary policy,” Tetangco said. “The
question is, whether there is going to be a need for further
action moving forward.”  Bangko Sentral cut banks’ reserve requirement ratio by 2
percentage points to 19 percent in November 2008 and a month
later started cutting the benchmark rate to help spur growth
amid a global slowdown. That easing cycle reduced the overnight
rate by a total of 200 basis points.  Starting June 24, the reserve ratio will rise to 20
percent, the central bank said.  ‘Data Dependent’  “Any further rate increase will be data dependent,” said
 Jonathan Ravelas , chief strategist at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc.
in Manila, the nation’s largest lender. “Raising the reserve
ratio has an immediate effect of siphoning liquidity,” said
Ravelas, who predicts another quarter of a percentage point
increase in the third quarter.  Bangko Sentral is monitoring oil and food prices and will
“keep an eye on liquidity.” A easing of monetary policy in the
U.S. may boost inflows to emerging markets like the Philippines,
he said.  Money-supply rose 7.3 percent in April from a year earlier,
the slowest pace in more than two years. That reflected the drop
in public sector spending during the period, Tetangco said. The
government will “jack up” spending in the second half, Budget
Secretary Butch Abad said yesterday.  Increase Spending  “The plan of the government is to increase spending, so
we’ll see how that’s going to affect liquidity,” Tetangco said
today. “The U.S. may decide to keep easy monetary policy
longer, in which case that may lead to an increase in inflow of
capital to the emerging markets. We need to watch that also,”
he said.  Consumer prices in the Philippines climbed 4.5 percent last
month from year earlier, the biggest increase since April 2010.
The $161 billion Asian economy expanded 4.9 percent last
quarter, the smallest gain since 2009.  Latest central bank forecasts show a lower inflation path
and that expectations have shown some signs of leveling off, the
central bank said on June 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in  Manila  at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  