-- 
PNC Said to Pay $3.45 Billion for RBC U.S. Retail Banking Unit

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   D o u g l a s   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-06-20T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/pnc-financial-said-to-pay-3-45-billion-for-royal-bank-of-canada-u-s-unit.html
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) 
has agreed to pay $3.45 billion in cash and stock for  Royal Bank
of Canada (RY) ’s U.S. retail banking unit, according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  The deal could include as much as $1 billion in PNC stock
and may be announced as early as today, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. PNC
also agreed to acquire credit-card assets from RBC for $165
million, the people said. The value of the agreements totals
about $3.62 billion.  An acquisition would help Pittsburgh-based PNC expand its
retail business in the U.S. Southeast beyond a foothold in
 Florida . The RBC Bank unit, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina ,
has more than 420 branches in six states across the region. PNC
Chief Executive Officer Jim Rohr, 62, told investors June 3 the
bank is “disciplined” with acquisitions, preferring purchases
that build 10 percent market share in “larger” cities.  “There’s an appetite for acquisitions given their
capitalization and the lack of organic loan growth,” Tom Lewandowski, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in St. Louis, said
in a June 17 interview. “They’re looking to go out there and
purchase that loan growth.”  The precise amount of PNC stock that RBC would receive will
be determined closer to the date the deal is completed, which is
expected by March, the people said.  National City  PNC has retail operations in 15 states and Washington D.C.,
including more than 2,500 branches, according to the bank’s
 website . The firm acquired National City Corp. in 2009 for about
$3.9 billion in stock.  Royal Bank is seeking to sell RBC Bank a decade after it
entered the U.S. with a $2.16 billion takeover of Centura Banks.
Royal Bank is retreating from U.S. consumer lending as
competitors  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  expand by
acquiring troubled U.S. lenders.  RBC Bank has posted 11 consecutive quarterly losses as of
March 31, with combined annual losses of about $3.1 billion
since 2007, according to Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
filings. RBC Bank is the smallest of Royal Bank’s U.S.
operations, which also include wealth management and RBC Capital
Markets investment bank.  Fred Solomon , a spokesman for PNC, said the bank doesn’t
comment on “rumors or speculation.” Katherine Gay, a
spokeswoman for RBC, declined to comment.  Royal Bank rose 64 cents, or 1.2 percent, to C$54.33 on
June 17 in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. PNC fell $1.68, or
2.8 percent, to $57.79 that day in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is advising RBC on the transaction,
and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  is advising PNC, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ; 