-- 
Putin Casts Shadow as Medvedev Drives Investor Campaign

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-06-20T07:08:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/putin-casts-shadow-as-medvedev-drives-investor-charm-offensive.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s
charm offensive to woo investors at the annual  St. Petersburg 
conference had one missing ingredient:  Vladimir Putin .  The prime minister was absent from the three-day gathering
of executives as Medvedev announced plans to step up state-asset
sales and reverse the country’s policy of “state capitalism.”
With Putin saying he’s opposed to “liberal experiments,” the
risk for Medvedev is that few investors will bet his promises
will come about until clarity over next year’s presidential
election is achieved.  Medvedev, picked by Putin to succeed him as leader in 2008,
has made fighting corruption and cutting the state’s role in the
economy one of the cornerstones of his presidency. Putin, who
kept the main levers of power as prime minister, hasn’t ruled
out a return to the Kremlin next year. The rivalry could check
investment as  Russia  tries to cut its reliance on energy exports
and bring growth near levels of rival emerging economies such as
China and  India .  “Regardless of who serves as the next president, Putin and
his views will remain very relevant, auguring policy
continuity,” said  Cliff Kupchan , an analyst at New York-based
research firm Eurasia Group. “Also, even if Medvedev does serve
a second term, he has a thin track record on implementation and
would be constrained by a generally conservative elite.”  Capital Flight  Doubts over who will run in the 2012 presidential vote
are spurring capital flight, said  German Gref , chief executive
officer at OAO Sberbank, the nation’s largest lender. Russia’s
central bank posted $30 billion of outflows in the first four
months of the year, near the $35.3 billion for all of 2010.  Some investors may decide to quit the Russian market
altogether if Putin, who served in east  Germany  as an
intelligence officer, returns as president, said Jochen Wermuth,
chief investment officer at Wermuth Asset Management GmBH.  “If Putin came back as president, it could be difficult to
convince sceptical investors that long overdue reforms would now
start, and some investors could pull out,” Wermuth, who helps
manage assets worth about $350 million at his Russia-focused
hedge fund, said in an interview in St. Petersburg.  As prime minister, Putin was not scheduled to attend the
St. Petersburg forum and spent the day of Medvedev’s main June
17 speech at his private residence outside of Moscow, where he
met the head of the national archives.  Growing Disappointment  Already, there is disappointment that Medvedev’s initiative
earlier this year to get rid of eight top government officials
on state company boards isn’t producing the promised results
because they are being replaced by allies, said Chris Weafer,
chief strategist at UralSib Financial Corp.  Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  was replaced by Alexander Nekipelov as chairman of the largest oil producer OAO Rosneft,
the company announced June 10. Nekipelov earlier served as
Rosneft deputy board chairman. Another candidate to replace
Sechin had been Sergei Shishin, a vice-president at state-run
VTB Group, according to the state-run news service RIA Novosti.  “If Russia is to avoid stagnant growth, the only way to
avoid it is with a substantial increase in investment and a
substantial diversification of the economy,” Weafer said.
“Investors have priced in a return to the Putin government, a
return to the old form of relying on oil.”  Some bankers nevertheless argue that now is the time to
invest in Russian assets.  ‘Enormous’ Opportunities  “There’s not a lot of wisdom to wait,” said Christopher Barter, co-chief executive officer for Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s Russia unit, said in St. Petersburg. “The opportunities
are enormous and valuations are very attractive.”  The government may cut its stake in Rosneft, which produces
almost a quarter of Russian oil, to below 50 percent,  Arkady Dvorkovich , Medvedev’s economic adviser, said June 17. Russia
may also sell its entire shareholding in the second-largest
bank, VTB, in three to five years, he said.  “We have increased the amount of assets possessed by the
state, some of this property has to be sold now,” Medvedev said
in an interview with the Financial Times posted on the Kremlin
website today. “Now it is time to sell. That’s for sure.”  Russia’s benchmark Micex Index has risen 21 percent over
the last year, advancing to a three-year high on April 6. That
compares with a 15 percent gain in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  and a 14 percent increase in Germany’s DAX Index in the
same period.  Status Quo  Russia’s ability to catch up with foreign rivals may
nevertheless be hurt by the fact that Putin and his supporters
favor the status quo over Medvedev’s drive to diversify the
economy away from oil,  Igor Yurgens , a Medvedev adviser who
heads the Institute of Contemporary Development in Moscow, said
in an interview.  Russia’s economy expanded 4.1 percent from a year earlier
in the first quarter, compared with 9.7 percent in  China  and 7.8
percent in India. Medvedev said in a January interview in Davos,
 Switzerland , that Russia sought to boost growth to between 8
percent and 10 percent within five years.  Medvedev needs to ensure his privatization plans are
adopted as official government policy, said deputy Moscow mayor,
Andrei Sharonov.  Investors want to see “practical steps to be reassured
that it’s not just a speech but a part of policy and day-to-day
activity of the government,” said Sharonov in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in St. Petersburg at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in St. Petersburg at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 