-- 
Corn Stocks Plunging to 1974 Low as China Adds Brazil-Sized Crop to Demand

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-06-20T20:26:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/record-corn-harvests-can-t-meet-world-demand.html
Even a fifth consecutive year of
record global corn harvests will fail to meet demand for food,
fuel and livestock feed, reducing world stockpiles to the lowest
in two generations.  Consumption will rise 3 percent in the next marketing year,
a 16th consecutive annual gain that saw demand jump 66 percent,
according to U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates. Inventory
will drop to 47 days of use, the fewest since 1974, the data
show. Waterlogged fields in the U.S., the largest exporter, will
curb yields, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says. Corn may jump 36
percent to a record $9 a bushel if conditions worsen, Morgan
Stanley says.  Corn purchases are accelerating as droughts and floods
limit output gains in everything from soybeans to wheat, driving
the Standard & Poor’s Agriculture Index of eight commodities 60
percent higher in 12 months.  China , the world’s second-biggest
consumer after the U.S., will use 47 percent more than a decade
ago, adding an amount greater than the entire crop of  Brazil ,
the third-largest producer.  “There is a storm developing in agriculture,” said Jean Bourlot, global head of commodities at UBS AG in  London . “If we
have the slightest disruption in any part of the world, the
effect on the price will be considerable.”  Corn has risen 5 percent in Chicago this year, even after
dropping 7.4 percent last week to close at $6.60 on June 17.
Today, the grain settled at $6.605, up 0.5 cent. Prices averaged
about $7.02 since Dec. 31, headed for the highest annual average
ever. While investors should be cautious for now, “long term, I
think $6 to $7 is a normal price,” Bourlot said. Costs are
rising for  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the biggest U.S. meat processor,
and ethanol maker Archer Daniels Midland Co.  Commodity Index  The S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities advanced 5.6 percent
this year, and the MSCI World Index of equities was unchanged.
Treasuries returned 3.2 percent, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index shows.  Global production will rise 5.6 percent to 866.2 million
metric tons in 2011-2012, still too little to meet demand of
871.7 million tons, according to the USDA, which combines
variable local marketing years for its estimates.  China’s pork consumption doubled in the past two decades
and demand for chicken quadrupled, the USDA estimates, boosting
requirements for grain-based animal feed. Surging energy prices
and subsidies spurred ethanol production, with the U.S. industry
using seven times more corn than 10 years ago.  “For the livestock industry, the ethanol industry, and the
 food industry , it’s going to be a food fight,” said John Cory,
the chief executive officer of Rochester, Indiana-based Prairie
Mills, which processes corn meal and corn flour. “Any kind of
weather problems are really going to be a significant problem.”  U.S. Farmers  Corn fell last week as drier weather enabled U.S. farmers
to complete about 99 percent of expected plantings by June 12. A
total of 69 percent of crops were in good or excellent
condition. Above-average prices will spur farmers to keep sowing
even if it means lower yields, Goldman Sachs said in a report
June 13. The USDA will release its next acreage and inventory
estimates on June 30.  South American producers will also grow more, said Lawrence Kane, a market adviser at Stewart-Peterson Group in  Yates City ,
Illinois. Corn planting starts in September in  Argentina  and a
month later in Brazil.  Demand may not expand as fast as anticipated by the USDA as
economic growth weakens. Indexes tracking manufacturing in the
New York and Philadelphia regions contracted this month, reports
last week showed.  Japan  entered its third recession in a decade,
and the Australian economy shrank the most in 20 years in the
first quarter. China raised bank-reserve requirements to a
record last week to cool the fastest inflation in three years.  Meat Prices  Livestock owners may cull herds, increasing meat supply,
because of higher feed costs. Wholesale choice-beef prices
dropped 9.9 percent since reaching a record April 5, and pork is
down 2.6 percent from a May 16 high, USDA data show. Bacon
retailed at $4.77 a pound in May, 24 percent more than a year
earlier,  data  from the Bureau of Labor Statistics show.  Farmers also may replace corn with wheat in feed, because
the grain is the cheapest relative to corn in 15 years.
Effingham Equity, a feed and farm-supply company in Effingham,
 Illinois , will add wheat in hog-feed rations for the second time
in a quarter century, said Mark Tarter, the grains-department
manager. Tyson Foods is using some wheat for poultry, said Gary Mickelson, a spokesman at the Springdale, Arkansas-based
company.  Higher Feed Costs  Higher feed prices will add $500 million to Tyson’s costs
in its fiscal year ending in September, Chief Operating Officer
James V. Lochner told investors on a conference call May 9. Corn
and soybean meal account for about 42 percent of spending to
raise chickens, which generated more than 34 percent of sales in
fiscal 2010.  Any decline in demand from livestock producers will be
overwhelmed by the anticipated jump in Chinese consumption. The
nation will use a record 181 million tons in the year that
starts Oct. 1, the USDA said in a June 9 report. China’s pork
production will reach an all-time high of 52.5 million tons in
2011, while chicken output will advance to 13.2 million tons,
the most ever, according to the USDA.  “People just don’t want to give up a better diet once they
shift to eating more meat,” said  Steve Nicholson , a commodity
procurement specialist at International Food Products Corp., a
distributor and adviser on food ingredients in Fenton,  Missouri .
He predicts prices above $8 before the end of the year.  Poor Nations Hurt  While higher prices help farmers, they are “devastating”
for the poor in developing nations,  Angel Gurria , secretary
general of the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development, said in a  report  June 17. Cereal costs may
average 20 percent more and meat 30 percent more over the next
decade than in the last one, the group said in the report.  Higher  oil prices  mean corn would probably have to exceed
$9 to trim demand from ethanol producers, said  Dan Basse , the
president of AgResource Co., a farm researcher in  Chicago . The
U.S. will convert a record 5.05 billion bushels into the fuel in
the next year, compared with 707 million in 2002, the government
estimates. Denatured-ethanol futures jumped 64 percent in the
past 12 months on the Chicago Board of Trade.  While the U.S. Senate voted June 16 to eliminate a tax
credit and a tariff that subsidize ethanol production, analysts
said the measure is unlikely to become law and wouldn’t alter
demand as long as fuel prices remain high. Also, Congress hasn’t
changed the government mandate for renewable fuels, which will
rise to 15 billion gallons in 2015 from 9 billion in 2008.  Gasoline Prices  Regular gasoline on average cost $3.646 a gallon at the
pump yesterday, 33 percent more than a year earlier, according
to the American Automobile Association. Prices peaked on May 4
at $3.985, the highest in almost three years.  “It’s not going to make a substantial difference to the
amount of ethanol produced, to the price of corn, or farm
income,” Mark McMinimy, the energy and agriculture policy
analyst for MF Global Inc. in  Washington , said of the Senate
measure. “If oil prices tank and corn prices stay near a high,
then ethanol production is going to recede to the level of the
mandate. But the mandate continues to go up.”  U.S. farmers are contending with extreme weather in several
agricultural states. Rain delayed planting from  North Dakota  to
Ohio, and floods damaged crops along the Mississippi, Ohio and
Missouri rivers.  Lost Crops  Those delays increased the risk of supply being lost, said
 Shawn McCambridge , the senior grain analyst at Prudential Bache
Commodities LLC in Chicago. Should hot, dry weather in July or
August hurt crops, prices may rise to $8.50, he said. Corn
planted in wet soil has shallower roots, diminishing its ability
to withstand such conditions.  Temperatures as much as 10 degrees Fahrenheit above normal
and dry soil from Texas to  North Carolina  are already
threatening yields, according to Michael Cordonnier, the
president of the Soybean and Corn Advisor in Hinsdale, Illinois,
a crop forecaster. The concern now is that the heat moves north,
he said.  The late planting also puts the crop at greater risk of
damage from too much rain during the growing season and frost
nearer to the harvest in September, said  Allen Motew , a
meteorologist at QT Weather in Chicago.  This year’s weather patterns are similar to 1993 and 2009,
Motew said. Yields rose in 2009 because the summer months were
cool and there was no frost before the harvest, he said. In
1993, yields plunged 23 percent.  “July and August will tell us, because the corn crop is
made in that period of time,” said Liddell of Rabo AgriFinance,
a unit of Utrecht, Netherlands-based Rabobank Groep. “More
things have gone wrong than have gone right.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  