-- 
SAS Said to Plan Order for 30 Airbus A320neos to Refresh Fleet

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-06-19T07:28:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/sas-said-to-plan-order-for-30-airbus-a320neos-to-refresh-fleet.html
SAS Group, the Scandinavian carrier,
is set to order about 30 Airbus SAS A320neo aircraft at the
 Paris Air Show  as it upgrades its fleet, two people familiar
with the planned announcement said.  The order may come as soon as tomorrow, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because details are still being
finalized. Sture Stoelen, a spokesman for Stockholm-based SAS,
declined to comment on specific orders. SAS will pick the
Leap-X engine model for its aircraft, one of the people said.  The Scandinavian airline, half-owned by the governments of
Sweden, Norway and  Denmark , said in November that it was looking
to add about 55 aircraft to help replace older  Boeing Co. (BA)  737s
and MD-80s in coming years.  The new aircraft would help expand capacity to meet
anticipated annual passenger growth of as much as six percent
through 2016. About 2.6 million passengers flew on SAS in May, a
7 percent traffic increase, SAS said June 9.  The A320neo comes with a choice of engines between the
Leap-X made by  CFM International , the joint venture of  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  Safran SA (SAF)  of  France , and the geared turbofan
from  Pratt & Whitney . Both engines promise about a 15 percent in
fuel improvement.  Airbus expects to have more than 500 320neo orders by the
end of the Paris Air Show, which starts June 20, reaching the
milestone about seven months after deciding to upgrade its jet.
Boeing, based in  Chicago , is still mulling whether to upgrade
the 737, the most widely flow plane, or offer a new single-aisle
model for the largest slice of the commercial-aircraft industry.  SAS in November said it was also weighing  Bombardier Inc (BBD/B) ’s
brand-new CSeries model along with 737 from Boeing and the
Airbus aircraft. Bombardier’s CSeries uses a version of the
geared turbofan exclusively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in Paris at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  