-- 
Serena Williams Is Still Wimbledon Favorite After Year of Medical Setbacks

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-19T23:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/serena-williams-is-still-wimbledon-favorite-after-year-of-medical-setbacks.html
Shattered glass severed tendons in
her feet and required surgery twice. Blood clots reached her
lungs and threatened her life. The only two tennis matches she
played in 12 months produced the definition of mediocrity, a 1-1
record.  None of that matters when  Serena Williams  comes to
Wimbledon.  A year after winning the grass-court major for the fourth
time and then stepping into 12 months of medical chaos, Williams
is the favorite again as the tournament opens today in London.
With no one dominating the women’s game, fellow players, former
champions and oddsmakers say the 29-year-old American can win
her 14th Grand Slam singles title.  “If you try to come back, you have to be strong in your
mind,” French Open champion Li Na said in an interview last
week. “I always believe that if she wants, she can win.”  Williams starts her title defense tomorrow against  France ’s
Aravane Rezai. In action today, defending Wimbledon champion
 Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  plays Michael Russell of the U.S., while
 Andy Murray , the fourth seed from Britain, faces Spain’s Daniel
Gimeno-Traver.  Venus Williams , Serena’s older sister and a five-
time champion at the All England Club, plays her opening round
against Akgul Amanmuradova of Uzbekistan.  Serena Williams is the 3-1 favorite at U.K. bookmaker
William Hill Plc. That means a successful $1 bet would return $3
plus the original wager.  Maria Sharapova , the 2004 Wimbledon
champion from  Russia , follows at 9-2. Venus Williams and Li,
 China ’s first Grand Slam singles champion, are both at 8-1. Top-
seeded  Caroline Wozniacki  is 10-1.  This Year’s Record  Serena lost last week in the second round at the grass-
court warmup event in Eastbourne,  England , to third-ranked Vera Zvonareva of Russia, her victim in the Wimbledon final a year
ago. The American needed three sets to beat  Bulgaria ’s  Tsvetana
Pironkova  in the first round.  Venus, 31, missed five months with hip and abdominal
injuries before also returning at Eastbourne, where she lost to
Daniela Hantuchova of Slovakia in the quarterfinals for the
first time in 11 matches.  After dominating the women’s tour through Wimbledon 2010,
Serena dropped out of the top 10 last month and is  ranked  25th.
Because of her success at Wimbledon, she’s seeded No. 7, which
means she won’t play any top-eight player before the
quarterfinals. Venus, who is ranked 30th on the WTA tour, is
seeded 23rd. The sisters can only meet in the finals.  The Williams sisters have won nine of the last 11 Wimbledon
singles titles. Wozniacki and Zvonareva haven’t won any. Second-
ranked  Kim Clijsters , who’s won four majors, is out with an
injury.  ‘Wide Open’  “The women’s game is so wide open and she has so much
experience at Wimbledon, as well as Venus does, that I wouldn’t
minimize their chances without having played any matches,”
three-time Wimbledon champion John McEnroe said in a conference
call organized by World Team Tennis last week. “Although
obviously that makes it more difficult.”  It wouldn’t be the first time Serena Williams staged a
successful comeback after a long lay-off. She won the 2007
Australian Open ranked 81st in the world after another injury-
filled year.  “She’s done it before,” U.S. Fed Cup captain and ESPN
broadcaster Mary Joe Fernandez said in an interview. “You’d
have to give her a chance.”  After winning Wimbledon in July, Serena said she was in a
restaurant in  Germany  when she walked through broken glass. Two
operations to repair tendons led to blood clots in both lungs, a
condition she described at a news conference last week as
“life-threatening” and “possibly career-ending.” She said
the experience changed her outlook on tennis and life.  ‘Toughest Moment’  “I think my toughest moment was just mental,” she said in
an interview. “I went through so much and I thought, ‘Will I be
able to play tennis again? Do I even want to play tennis again,
or do I just want to get healthy again?’ That was the first and
foremost thing on my mind.”  Williams’s absence has “sent the women’s game into
complete and utter uncertainty,” McEnroe said.  “Serena was the totally dominant No. 1 a year ago,” he
said. “I would have said that she was going to break all
records and become the greatest female player that ever lived.”  Wozniacki has taken over the top spot on the WTA tour. The
20-year-old from  Denmark , who has won 17 Tour events, lost in
the third round of the  French Open . The top seed at Wimbledon
made the semifinals at the  U.S. Open  and the Australian Open,
which were both won by Clijsters, who withdrew from Wimbledon
last week with an injured right ankle.  Plans  Serena said she has other things to focus on than climbing
back to No. 1.  “I just think that I can be there and compete, and that’s
all that matters,” she said in Eastbourne. “I’ve never been
one to say I’m going to lose, but I’m just happy to be there.”  Chris Evert, an 18-time Grand Slam singles champion, said a
win for Williams would be “almost shocking.  “It’s one thing to have knee surgery, but it’s another
thing to have a really serious physical medical condition with
just the emotional ups and downs that she’s gone through this
year,” Evert said on a conference call organized by ESPN last
week. “It would be monumental in my mind if Serena pulled off a
win. You can never, ever count her out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the  London  sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  