-- 
Shell Ready to Start $12.5 Billion Project to Conserve Iraq’s Natural Gas

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-06-19T12:24:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/shell-mitsubishi-ready-to-start-12-5-billion-iraq-gas-deal.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and partner
 Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  are preparing to begin a delayed $12.5 billion
natural-gas project in Iraq, said Hans Nijkamp, vice president
and country chairman.  “Shell and Mitsubishi are now ready for execution of the
project,” he said in an interview published on the  website  of
Energy Exchange, organizer of an Iraqi energy conference to be
held in Istanbul in September. “We are working with our Iraq
partners to reach final agreements as soon as possible.”  Regarding delays since the contract was signed last year,
Nijkamp said: “A number of external reviews have been carried
out by international firms on behalf of the Ministry of Oil and
it has also taken Shell 250,000 engineering man-hours on site to
assess the scope of work.”  The Iraqi government is eager to develop gas resources to
supply fuel to generate electricity. The nation’s power plants
have failed to meet domestic demand and ending blackouts has
become a political priority. The government, which hopes
eventually to produce enough gas to export, awarded three
licenses last November in the nation’s first auction of gas
concessions since the U.S.-led invasion in 2003.  The project with Shell and Mitsubishi involves developing
and capturing gas that is being flared, or burned off, in
southern  Iraq . Some 700 million cubic feet are flared daily in
the south of Iraq and the quantity is sufficient to generate an
estimated 4,500 megawatts, Nijkamp said.  Wells, Pipelines  In July, Shell will start installing 15 production wells
and pipelines in the Majnoon oilfield in southern Iraq, Nijkamp
said. It will also upgrade two degassing stations and build “a
new central processing facility to include two new 50,000 bbl/d
capacity early production systems,” he said.  Shell has concluded a geographical survey that produced
“positive results” about the southern Shatt al-Arab waterway’s
ability to handle equipment needed to develop the Majnoon
oilfield. “We are now able to use it as a route to transport
equipment to Majnoon and minimize road transport,” Nijkamp
said. “We are also in the process of constructing a jetty.”  Together with Petroliam Nasional Bhd of  Malaysia , Shell won
a 20-year service contract in 2009 to raise output from Majnoon
to 1.8 million barrels a day. Shell Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Voser  said on Oct. 12 that production from Majnoon had
risen to 70,000 barrels a day. Majnoon, which straddles the
Basra and Maysan provinces, has estimated crude reserves of 12
billion barrels and 9.5 trillion cubic feet of gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 