-- 
Shorts Exit ‘Solarcoaster’ as Chinese Glut Sinks Panel Prices

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-06-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/short-sellers-hammer-solarcoaster-as-glut-of-chinese-panels-sinks-prices.html
Short sellers are flocking to solar
power, dumping record levels of stock in  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  of the
U.S. and competing equipment makers in a bet that profit will be
hurt by a glut of Chinese panels and shrinking demand in  Europe .  First Solar of Tempe,  Arizona , the world’s largest maker of
thin-film solar panels, had a record 23 percent of outstanding
shares sold short this month, according to Data Explorers
information on Bloomberg. A record 54 percent of  Germany ’s Q-
Cells SE is short, meaning the stock was borrowed for sale by
speculators who hope to buy it back later more cheaply.  A surge in Chinese competition and solar subsidy cuts in
the world’s biggest markets of Germany and  Italy  have attracted
short sellers and helped push down the 37-member Bloomberg
Global Leaders Solar Index by 22 percent this quarter. The drop
reflects a 21 percent price decline this year for solar cells,
the devices that are fastened onto panels to convert sunlight
into power, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “The stocks look cheap, but 2012 still has massive and
potentially overwhelming challenges,” said Shawn Kravetz, chief
executive officer of Esplanade Capital. The Boston-based hedge
fund has bought Chinese manufacturers and shorted their European
competitors, he said, without naming stocks sold short.  Officials for First Solar declined to comment. Thalheim-
based Q-Cells did not respond to e-mails or calls.  Kravetz said his colleagues who’ve invested in solar stocks
for seven years call the industry a “solarcoaster” because of
price volatility. The 37-member Bloomberg solar index has a 60-
day volatility of 24 percent, or twice the 12 percent rating of
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to data on Bloomberg.  Evergreen, Suntech  Not all out-of-favor stocks are heavily shorted. The solar
index’s biggest decliner this quarter, down 56 percent since
March 31, is  Evergreen Solar Inc. (ESLR)  of Marlboro,  Massachusetts ,
though just 15 percent of its shares were held short as of June
15, the most recent day Data Explorers data was provided. Ten
stocks on the index have been shorted more heavily, including
four Chinese manufacturers --  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , LDK Solar Co.,
Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. and Suntech Power Holdings Co.  As Italy and Germany slowed development of solar projects,
 China ’s JA Solar Holdings Co. and Suntech, the world’s biggest
solar-cell makers by capacity, were leading an industry-wide
expansion of factory capacity that will add at least 9.5
gigawatts of new manufacturing lines this year. That will boost
global capacity to 41.5 gigawatts, outstripping demand of no
more than 28 gigawatts forecast by New Energy Finance.  “We had all this capacity added right ahead of the two
biggest markets showing a significant slowdown, that’s why we
have a tremendous collapse,” said  Gordon Johnson , a solar
analyst at Axiom Capital Management in  New York .  Chinese Comparison  The solar index already lost 25 percent since reaching a
13-month high on Feb. 18.  Global installations of photovoltaic devices doubled last
year as developers rushed to hook up equipment in Germany before
the government lowered incentives. New plants still may increase
by about 30 percent this year as the cost of solar energy drops
to near the rate consumers pay for power from the national grid
in some of the sunniest parts of California and  Turkey .  That’s made Charles Yonts, a solar analyst at CLSA in  Hong
Kong , optimistic that the industry can work through its
inventory without suffering additional declines.  “The worst has passed for demand, but now it’s a question
of working through the inventory and that’s difficult,” said
Yonts, who recommends investors buy  Trina Solar  and Trony Solar
Holdings Co. of Hong Kong. “Prices have fallen so much that
returns are now attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  