-- 
Skype Fires Executives, Avoiding Payouts After Microsoft Buyout

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-06-20T01:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/skype-fires-executives-avoiding-payouts-after-microsoft-buyout-closes.html
Skype Technologies SA, the Internet-
calling service being bought by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , is firing
senior executives before the deal closes, a move that reduces
the value of their payout, according to three people familiar
with the matter.  Vice Presidents  David Gurle , Christopher Dean, Russ Shaw
and Don Albert were dismissed from the Luxembourg-based company,
said the people, who requested anonymity because the departures
aren’t public. Chief Marketing Officer Doug Bewsher and  Anne
Gillespie , head of human resources, were also fired. Executives
 Ramu Sunkara  and  Allyson Campa , from the 2011  Qik  purchase, were
also let go.  The timing of the dismissals means  stock options  will be
worth less than if the executives stayed until the closing of
the $8.5 billion deal, the people said. When a company gets
bought, compensation is often tied to the purchase price, said
Neil Sims, a managing director at  Boyden , a search firm.  “All is good if you’re staying with that transition team
or you’re packaged out,” said Sims, who is based in  San
Francisco . “But if you’re eliminated unceremoniously, without a
package and without some negotiation, you could certainly lose
unvested options.”  Silver Lake , based in  Menlo Park ,  California , led a $2
billion buyout of a 70 percent stake in Skype from  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  in
2009. The private equity firm and several Skype directors have
actively voiced their opinions on who should be fired, two of
the people said.  Jenny Farrelly, a spokeswoman for Silver Lake, and  Frank Shaw , a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to comment.  ‘Management Changes’  “As part of a recent internal shift, Skype has made some
management changes,” said Brian O’Shaughnessy, a Skype
spokesman.  Silver Lake hired Chief Executive Officer Tony Bates from
Cisco Systems Inc. to replace Josh Silverman last year. Bates
has put his stamp on Skype by trying to restore its engineering-
centric roots, churning out more features at a faster pace for
its 170 million active users. He also streamlined a global
management structure that was decentralized and fraught with
territorial disputes and slow bureaucracy. The company was
headed for an initial public offering before Microsoft agreed to
buy it last month.  FTC Approval  Microsoft announced the  Skype  acquisition on May 10 and
plans to connect it to Outlook e-mail, Xbox game console,
Windows mobile phones and corporate-phone software. Skype offers
voice and video calling over the Internet and is primarily used
by consumers. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission said it approved
the deal, according to a June 17 statement.  Gurle joined Skype in January 2010, overseeing its efforts
to persuade corporations to adopt Skype.  Dean  served under
Silverman as chief strategy officer, helping forge a partnership
with Facebook Inc. Albert oversaw advertising endeavors
including a partnership with The Oprah Winfrey Show.  Six of the departures were previously reported by  Skype
Journal , a blog that covers the company.  Skype was founded in 2003 by Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis. The founders sold the company for $2.6 billion in 2005 to
 San Jose , California-based EBay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  