-- 
Somalia Prime Minister Abdulahi Mohamed Quits as Part of Political Accord

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-06-19T13:05:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/somalia-prime-minister-abdulahi-mohamed-quits-as-part-of-political-accord.html
Somali Prime Minister Mohamed
Abdulahi Mohamed resigned as part of an agreement reached with
the country’s president and speaker of parliament.  On June 9, Somali President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed and
Speaker Sharif Hassan Sheikh Adan deferred elections in the war-
torn country for 12 months to allow more time for a political
transition. The accord called for the appointment of a new prime
minister within 30 days. The deal followed months of disputes
between Somalia’s executive and legislative branches over when
their terms should end and the date for elections.  The  United Nations Security Council  threatened cuts in
donor aid unless the squabbling stopped. Somalia has been mired
in a civil war for two decades and hasn’t had a functioning
central government since the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre. Most of the southern and central parts of the Horn
of African nation have been seized by the Islamic insurgency
movement, al-Shabaab.  “Viewing the situation of my country and with respect to
the Kampala accord, I decided to leave the post,” Abdulahi
Mohamed told reporters at the presidential palace in Mogadishu.  Abdulahi Mohamed had earlier rejected the agreement that
called for him to step down and said he would seek a vote of
confidence from lawmakers.  “I congratulate the Somali Prime Minister for his
achievement during the short time he worked,” Ahmed said at the
same news conference. Mohamed will “stay and work with us and
we will benefit from his experience.”  Somalia’s interior minister, Abdishakur Sheikh Hassan
Farah, died this month after an attack in his home in Mogadishu,
the capital, by a female suicide bomber.  Somalia’s government has been battling Islamic insurgents,
including al-Shabaab, a group the U.S. accuses of having links
to al-Qaeda, since 2007.  The government, backed by African Union troops, has claimed
recent victories against the rebels in Mogadishu, the capital,
and along the border with  Kenya .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 