-- 
South Africa’s ANC Youth League Cheers Malema’s Call to Nationalize Banks

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-06-20T15:39:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/south-africa-s-anc-youth-league-cheers-malema-s-call-to-nationalize-banks.html
Julius Malema , the youth leader of
South Africa’s ruling party, yesterday stepped up demands for
the nationalization of mines and banks, triggering cheers from
more than 5,000 delegates at a conference.  The government needs to take control of banks such as
 Standard Bank  Group Ltd., Nedbank Ltd. and  First National Bank 
to fund investment in other areas of the economy, Malema said at
the end of a four-day meeting in Johannesburg that saw his
election for a second term.  “We’re going to war comrades,” he said as the country’s
Deputy President Kgalema Motlanthe looked on from the stage. “A
war for radical policy shift.”  Malema, 30, wants to increase the role of the state in the
economy to combat youth unemployment, poverty and inequality,
which has changed little since the end of white minority rule in
1994. He threatened to withdraw support from anyone in the
 African National Congress  who defended big business.  “Your time has come,” Malema said. “Were you delivering
to the masses of the people or were you having dinner with the
Oppenheimers?” The Oppenheimer family, a member of which
founded  Anglo American Plc (AGL) , owns 40 percent of  De Beers , the
world’s biggest diamond company.  The Youth League in 2007 rallied behind President  Jacob Zuma , helping him to oust then-President  Thabo Mbeki  as party
chief. Malema has declined to say whether he will support Zuma
for another term.  ‘Economic Freedom’  Malema mapped out the  ANC Youth League ’s plan for
“economic freedom in our lifetime” that included the takeover
of banks, land and mines.  “Without these banks, nationalization will not succeed,”
he said. “If you do not nationalize the financial sector, the
financial sector will hold back resources.”  His campaign has weighed on shares in companies such as
Anglo American, the world’s third-biggest listed mining company,
and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , Africa’s biggest producer of the
metal, said Patrice Rassou, who helps manage about 330 billion
rand ($48.6 billion) at  Cape Town ’s Sanlam Investment
Management.  Standard Bank, Africa’s biggest lender,  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ,
which operates First National Bank,  ABSA Group Ltd. (ASA) , which is
part-owned by Barclays Bank Plc, Nedbank Ltd., and  Investec
Ltd. (INL) , together have a market capitalization of about 472.1
billion rand ($69.8 billion), quarter of South Africa’s gross
domestic product in 2009.  Market Declines  The rand declined 0.3 percent to 6.7811 versus the dollar
at 5:15 p.m. in Johannesburg trading.  Standard Bank rose 0.7 percent to 96.73 rand in
Johannesburg trading today, while FirstRand slid 0.7 percent to
19.24, its fourth consecutive drop. ABSA fell for a third day,
declining 0.1 percent to 132.90 rand,  Nedbank  slid 0.2 percent
to 139.74 rand and Investec fell 0.3 percent to 53.50 rand.  “Anyone who says this is just the rumblings of a madman
and can be ignored, is being naive,” Paul Theron, managing
director of Johannesburg-based Vestact Pty Ltd., which manages
more than 1 billion rand of assets for private clients, said
today. “There could be a shift in ANC congresses which elect
future leaders. It will have its impact in time.”  The government and the ruling party have repeatedly said
nationalization isn’t official policy.  The Youth League resolutions “remain those of the league
and do not alter ANC policies being implemented at government
level,” the ANC said in an e-mailed statement today.
“Pronouncements by the Youth League on such matters as the
nationalization of mines and land redistribution, among others,
form part of ongoing discussion” within the party.  The ANC has appointed independent economists to investigate
different options of increasing state involvement in mining
before the end of the year.  ‘Freedom Charter’  The panel was set up to “intellectually legitimize” the
rejection of any nationalization policies,  Aubrey Matshiqi , a
research fellow at the Johannesburg-based Helen Suzman
Foundation, said before the conference.  The panel’s research “mustn’t contradict the Freedom
Charter,” Malema said, referring to a landmark statement of
intent by the ANC, which in 1955 called for minerals, banks and
other industries to be transferred to the people as a whole.  Much investment in  South Africa  represented an
“imperialist agenda” as it didn’t benefit communities living
around the country’s mines, Malema said. “What kind of
investment is this which leaves our people in serious poverty?”  Malema said economic transformation would remain within the
framework of democratic institutions. “We’ve got political
power,” he said. “We need to use those institutions to change
the property relations in South Africa.”  Anglo American Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll  said
on Feb. 8 that giving private mines to the state in South Africa
would be “the road to ruin,” because international investors
would pull funding from the country.  Malema denied that his demands for the black majority to
benefit more from an economy was racist against the country’s
white minority.  ‘Apartheid Gift’  “The real enemy is white monopoly capital,” he said.
“They are the ones we are fighting against. In whose hands is
this wealth? In whites.”  While the Youth League’s policy ideas are “economically
dysfunctional” it isn’t surprising that they receive massive
support in a country where the majority has been marginalized,
Vestact’s Theron said. “Economic exclusion in South  Africa  was
so thoroughgoing, it becomes very easy to convince people who
are excluded,” he said. “We’re reaping what we sowed. This is
the gift from our apartheid forefathers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  