-- 
Sovereign Crisis Drives Investors to Aussie Bank Bonds: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-06-20T05:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/sovereign-crisis-drives-investors-to-aussie-bank-bonds-australia-credit.html
Bond investors seeking refuge from
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis are finding Australia’s banks
safer than their global peers, even after the top four lenders’
credit ratings were downgraded last month.  The nation’s biggest banks, cut one level to Aa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service, don’t own Greek debt and get at least 70
percent of their revenue from Australia, where growth is
forecast to outpace the U.S. and the euro region next year.
Speculation a Greek default would infect Europe’s banking system
and slow the global economy is roiling markets.  “Australian banks have very limited exposure to Greek
sovereign debt and other European peripherals, which helps to
explain why they have outperformed of late,” said Mark Mitchell, the head of credit at Sydney-based Kapstream Capital,
which manages about A$3.9 billion ($4.1 billion). “Investors
are getting increasingly concerned about the situation in  Greece 
and the potential contagion effects.”  Bondholders demand 198 basis points, or 1.98 percentage
points, more than yields on government debt to hold global bank
notes, compared with 166 basis points on Australian securities,
the widest gap since March, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show. Credit-default swaps insuring debt of 152 banks
worldwide, including Bank of America Corp. and HSBC Holdings
Plc, are the most expensive relative to contracts on Australian
lenders in three months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) ,  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia (CBA)  had their debt ratings cut by Moody’s on May 18 to
the third-highest grade.  Greek Default  A default by Greece is “almost certain” and could help
drive the  U.S. economy  into recession,  Alan Greenspan , former
Federal Reserve chairman, said in a June 16 interview with
 Charlie Rose  in  New York .  European officials failed to agree on releasing a loan
payout to spare Greece from default, after a seven-hour crisis
meeting that ended early today. European Union finance ministers
pushed Greece to pass laws to cut its deficit and sell state
assets, and left open whether the country will get the full 12
billion euros ($17.1 billion) promised for July. The crisis is
set to dominate an EU summit in Brussels on June 23-24.  Growth Rates  The euro region is likely to expand 1.9 percent in 2011,
and 1.65 percent in 2012, according to the median estimates of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. In the U.S., where industrial
production rose less than forecast in May and the jobless rate
climbed to 9.1 percent, growth is estimated to be 2.6 percent
this year and 3 percent in 2012. Australia’s economy may expand
2.8 percent in 2011 and 4 percent next year, the surveys show.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cash-rate target is the
highest in the developed world at 4.75 percent. That compares
with the U.S. Fed’s range of zero to 0.25 percent, held since
December 2008.  Demand for commodities has helped the nation’s currency
gain 20 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past 12 months.
It reached $1.1012 on May 2, the highest since exchange controls
were scrapped in 1983, and traded at $1.0569 at 2:00 p.m. in
Sydney today.  Consumer prices in Australia may rise an annual 2.78
percent in the next five years, based on the gap between yields
on  government bonds  and inflation-indexed notes.  Yields on Australia’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell 3 basis
points today to 5.09 percent, compared with 2.93 percent on
similar-maturity Treasuries.  Investor Confidence  The Markit iTraxx  Australia  index of credit-default swaps
rose 0.9 basis point last week to 115.3, the highest weekly
close since September, according to data provider CMA. The gauge
typically falls as investor confidence improves and rises as it
deteriorates. CMA is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian
corporate bonds instead of government debt rose 3 basis points
to 171 in the week ended June 17, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. That compares with a 4 basis-point widening of
spreads on global company debentures to 164 last week, the data
show.  Australian banks have no investments in Greece, compared
with $56.7 billion owed to French banks, according to data from
the Bank for International Settlements as of the end of 2010.  Greek government bonds held by banks in countries reporting
to the BIS totaled $54.2 billion, of which 96 percent was owned
by European lenders.  BNP Paribas SA,  France ’s biggest bank, and local rivals
Societe Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA may have their
ratings cut by Moody’s because of their investments in Greece,
the risk assessor said June 15.  Moody’s Downgrade  Moody’s cited the Australian banks’ reliance on
international bond investors for the downgrade, saying markets
will be “less liquid and lot more volatile” in the next five
to seven years.  Fixed-income markets brushed off the move, the first
ratings cut for the country’s biggest lenders in more than a
decade. Credit-default swaps on three of the four banks remained
unchanged the day of Moody’s announcement while contracts on
Westpac rose 0.5 basis point, CMA data show.  Moody’s ratings are now in line with the lenders’ AA grade
from  Standard & Poor’s . Less than 10 percent of members of the
 MSCI World Bank Index (MXWO0BK)  are ranked higher.  The average cost of insuring the senior debt of Australia’s
top four banks increased 8.3 basis points to 116.9 basis points
this month, CMA prices show. Contracts on global peers rose 25.1
to 233.5 in the same period. The gap of 116.6 is the widest
since March 15, Bloomberg data show.  Bond Returns  Financial bonds in Australian dollars have gained 0.12
percent on a price return basis this month, compared with a loss
of 0.35 percent on global bank debt, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show.  Australian banks’ balance sheets are benefiting from a
surge in deposits as companies and consumers boost savings,
while home buyers have also become more conservative. Borrowing
for mortgages grew by 6.4 percent in April from the year-earlier
period, the least since the central bank figures were first
reported in 1977.  The nation’s household savings ratio climbed to 11.5
percent in the three months through March from 9.7 percent in
the previous quarter, the highest level since 2009, according to
the statistics bureau. U.S. households saved 4.9 percent of
their disposable income in April, according to the Bureau of
Economic Analysis.  Nomura Holdings Inc. cut its bond sale forecast for ANZ,
Westpac, National Australia Bank and Commonwealth Bank to A$89
billion for the 2011 financial year, from an earlier estimate
for the period of as much as A$130 billion, according to a
report published last month.  Pimco Bet  National Australia Bank priced A$2 billion of five-year
floating-rate notes to yield 117 basis points more than the bank
bill swap rate on June 16, Bloomberg data show. JPMorgan Chase &
Co. paid a 135 basis-point spread on A$600 million of five-year
bonds sold in March, the data show.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Australian unit holds
more financial debt than the benchmark it tracks,  Robert Mead ,
Sydney-based head of  portfolio management , said in an interview
this month.  “Given the fundamental tailwinds for the Australian
corporate sector and our banks, we are overweight both of
those,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  