-- 
U.K. Facing Larger Deficit Due to Weak Economy, Balls Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-19T16:18:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/u-k-facing-larger-deficit-due-to-weak-economy-balls-says-1-.html
The U.K. government budget deficit
will be higher than forecast by Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  as the economy slows, according to  Ed Balls ,
opposition Labour Party Treasury affairs spokesman.  “The economy’s flat-lined,  consumer confidence  has fallen
very sharply, we’ve got fewer people paying tax than we should
have, we’ve got more people out of work than we should have, the
economy’s weaker,” Balls told the  BBC ’s “Andrew Marr Show”
today. “That is why it’s making it hard on the deficit.”  The  Office for Budget Responsibility , Britain’s independent
fiscal watchdog, said in March the government’s fiscal shortfall
will be 368 billion pounds ($596 billion) between 2011 and 2016,
46 billion pounds more than Osborne predicted in October, as it
lowered its 2011 growth estimate. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
should slow the pace of his budget squeeze and reverse January’s
increase in value-added tax to spur demand and cut the deficit
through faster economic expansion, Balls said.  “The VAT rise in January was a catastrophic decision for
the economy, and it pushed inflation up as well and it makes it
harder for the  Bank of England  on  interest rates , too,” he
said. “I want to get the deficit down, but not this fast; it’s
dangerous and reckless. We’re heading into a vicious circle and
we’ve got to break out of it.”  The economy stagnated in the six months through March,
while  consumer spending  slumped the most in almost two years in
the first quarter. Surveys of manufacturing and services growth
published earlier this month by Markit Economics Ltd. indicate
economic growth this quarter may not exceed 0.3 percent.  Osborne ‘Desperate’  The government raised the  sales tax  to 20 percent from 17.5
percent at the start of 2011 as part of plans to eliminate a
structural deficit of almost 5 percent of economic output within
the current parliament. The proposed measures, including reform
of public-sector pensions, have drawn criticism from labor
unions that have threatened  strike action .  Osborne is “desperate” for a confrontation with unions
about the deficit-reduction proposals so he can “divert
attention away from the failing economy,” Balls said. “We
should make sure we make this about fairness and negotiate.”  U.K. Treasury Minister  Danny Alexander , a member of the
Liberal Democrats, the junior partner in Cameron’s coalition
government, said it would be a “colossal mistake” for unions
to strike at this stage over changes to public-sector pensions.
Osborne isn’t seeking to confront unions and the origins of the
fiscal shortfall lay in the policies of the previous Labour
government that was in power before Cameron’s coalition
administration took control in May last year, Alexander said.  Labour’s Fault  “I’m quite clear about where the fault lies in terms of
the economic mess we’re in,” he said in a television interview
on Sky News today. “It’s not with the trade unions, it’s with
the former Labour government and their failure to regulate the
financial system, their failure to regulate the bankers properly
and the enormous  budget deficit  that they built up.”  The proposed public-sector strikes “probably won’t disrupt
the economy,” Confederation of British Industry Director-
General  John Cridland  told Sky News today. “It would mean
people would be less able to spend, but I think there’ll be a
Dunkirk spirit. People will rally round neighbors and
grandparents to look after kids who can’t go to school and
people will work from home where they can.”  ‘Personal Budgets’  As part of his reform of government services, Cameron will
distribute plans among ministers this coming week proposing to
give individuals “personal budgets” to buy services that are
now provided by local authorities, the Sunday Times reported
today. The report comes after Cameron this week announced
changes to plans to overhaul the state-funded  National Health
Service  in an attempt to win back hostile voters.  A  YouGov Plc poll  for the Sunday Times newspaper today
found 42 percent of voters would select Labour if a general
election were held now, with 37 percent supporting the ruling
 Conservative Party . YouGov, which said support for the Liberal
Democrats was at 10 percent, surveyed 2,451 Britons on June 16
and June 17.  Balls’s comments come as Labour leader  Ed Miliband  has seen
support for his leadership drop in the past month. A  ComRes Ltd.
poll  of 2,008 Britons for the Sunday Mirror and Independent on
Sunday newspapers showed the number of respondents who disagreed
Miliband was “a good leader” exceeded those who agreed by 27
percentage points in June, compared with 17 percentage points
last month. The polling company interviewed U.K. adults online
between June 15 and June 16.  Neither poll included a margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  