-- 
U.S. Military To Keep Robotic Edge in Face of $400 Billion Cuts

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-06-19T18:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/u-s-military-to-keep-robotic-edge-in-face-of-400-billion-cuts.html
U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense
William Lynn said the U.S. will maintain its lead in unmanned
robotic technology in the face of a $400 billion reduction in
defense spending.  “Robotics and unmanned technology is a key future” for
the U.S. military, Lynn said in Paris today ahead of this year’s
Air Show. The Pentagon will also seek to maintain a lead in
cyber security and the capability to strike long-range targets
using a combination of missiles, aircraft and electronic attack,
he said at briefing.  The Pentagon is reviewing its long-range spending plans to
meet President Barack Obama’s goal of reducing spending over 12
years to help cut the U.S. deficit. Outgoing Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  and  Leon Panetta , his successor, have said all
defense programs are under review.  “No country with a weak economy is going to be strong
militarily,” Lynn said. “So, it’s a strategic imperative that
we tackle the  budget deficit ” including ways to reduce defense
spending.  Still, there are some areas of emerging military strength
the U.S. will try to preserve, including unmanned robotic
technologies, because it’s not clear “the exact shape they will
take, or the precise advantages they will confer” Lynn said in
prepared remarks that he plans to deliver at a dinner organized
by the U.S. Aerospace Industries Association.  The trade-group’s members include  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  the
world’s largest defense contractor,  Boeing Co. (BA) ,  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC)  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)   Stealth Technology  Lynn likened the effort to preserve some military
technologies during the budget downturn to the U.S. push in the
1970s, when defense spending declined in the aftermath of the
 Vietnam War  and the Pentagon still continued to invest in so-
called stealth technologies. Those technologies include
materials that help military aircraft reduce their radar
signature and thereby avoid detection by adversaries.  “If not for our careful stewardship in the lean years of
the 1970s, it would have been left on the drawing board,” Lynn
said.  The U.S. Air Force’s F-22 and F-35 jet fighters, both made
by Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed, are stealth airplanes.  The U.S.  Air Force  is seeking $197 million in the fiscal
year 2012 budget to begin work on a new bomber that will be part
of a family of long-range strike systems. The military service
has said these systems may also include unmanned airplanes,
missiles and planes that can disable enemy radar.  The long-range strike systems would enable the U.S.
military to hit targets deep inside enemy territory.  “There’s going to be a cyber dimension to any future
conflict,” Lynn said. “Given our reliance on  information
technology  for our military we need to be able to defend” the
networks from attacks, he said.  The Pentagon and defense contractors have faced attacks on
their cyber networks. Lockheed on June 4 said its computers
faced an assault after data from a security provider was stolen
in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Paris at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  