-- 
Hungary Credit Dearth Swallows Resort as Lending Shrinks

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-06-20T10:51:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/hungary-credit-squeeze-swallows-golf-resort.html
At the five-star, 54-room Polus
Palace hotel and golf course outside of Budapest, weeds stand on
the fairways, an “Out of Business” sign dangles across the
driveway and bottles are strewn along an overgrown lawn.  The resort is a victim of drying-up credit for Hungarian
companies, co-owner Peter Polus said, which keeps hobbling
investment and boosting bankruptcies. This is bad news for the
economy, the third-slowest growing among the European Union’s 10
eastern members after Romania and Slovenia.  “I knocked on every door at every single bank in  Hungary 
for a new loan or a refinancing facility but I was turned down
everywhere,” co-owner Peter Polus said. “I didn’t stand a
chance.”  Corporate loans dropped 17.3 percent since their peak in
March 2009, the biggest slump among the EU’s eastern economies,
according to the central bank. While Hungary’s benchmark BUX
stock index outperformed European emerging markets this year
with a gain of 6.5 percent, the gauge’s 6 percent advance over
the past 12 months compares with 22 percent of  Poland ’s WIG20
index and the 29 percent for the MSCI Emerging Europe Index.  The forint has weakened 0.7 percent against the euro this
month, the fourth biggest decline among 25 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, and the BUX shed 3.7 percent in
the same period.  The lending dearth also threatens Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s goal to combat unemployment and boost economic growth to
about 5 percent by 2014. The  International Monetary Fund  expects
Hungary’s economy to grow 2.5 percent this year, while the
central bank warned that loan shortage raises the risk of a
“creditless” economy.  Reliance on Germany  Credit tightness threatens to keep domestic demand under
pressure “leaving the economy heavily reliant on German export
orders,” said  Nigel Rendell , an economist at  RBC Capital
Markets  in  London . “If the German economy slows in 2012,
Hungarian growth may disappear.”  Local banks, including the units of  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , started holding back credit after the 2009 global
recession boosted delinquencies and many consumers that had
borrowed predominantly in Swiss francs defaulted as the forint
weakened.  The forint fell 20 percent from the end of 2008, when the
crisis engulfed Hungary through the end of 2010, the third worst
performance among more than 20 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The crunch was exacerbated after the government levied a
120 billion-forint ($633 million) special tax on lenders, one of
 Europe ’s largest, that will last through at least 2012.  ‘Brutal’ Tax Code  Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  called the levy
“brutal,” saying it was the only alternative to austerity
measures after Orban won the 2010 elections with a pledge to end
five years of budget cuts.  The banking industry’s total return on equity, a measure of
a lender’s efficiency in generating profit, plunged to 2.8
percent in 2010 from 12.5 percent a year earlier, the lowest in
the region, according to central bank figures.  Non-performing loans may reach 15 percent of total credit
by the end of this year, the central bank said, more than double
the Czech rate.  Parents of foreign-branded financial institutions, which in
2009 pledged to keep funding their local subsidiaries, are
reducing financing in part because of the special tax on
lenders, the central bank said in a report.  “Lending conditions in Hungary are still becoming
stricter, which goes against global trends,” Magyar Nemzeti
Bank Vice President Julia Kiraly said at a May 4 conference.
It’s “a very bad sign regarding any future turnaround.”  Corporate Bankruptcies  While the rate of corporate bankruptcies peaked in the
second quarter of 2010, the number of companies going into
liquidation was still higher in the first quarter of 2011 than
in the same period a year earlier, according to  Opten
Informatikai Kft , which publishes weekly reports on Hungarian
corporate bankruptcies and liquidations.  Along the M1 highway that connects Budapest with the
Austrian border, buildings at the Topark Project stand half
finished. Spread over 176 hectares, almost the size of  Monaco ,
the 2.4 billion-euro ($3.5 billion) project in 2007 set out to
be Hungary’s most exclusive office, residential and recreational
development.  Work halted in November 2010, when Eurohypo AG, the
commercial-property lending arm of Commerzbank AG,  Germany ’s
second-largest bank,  suspended  disbursements of a 138 million-
euro loan.  Developers Walker and Williams Luxembourg SA hope to find
financing and resume construction in 2012, marketing director
Attila Somos said on June 15. The first phase may be completed
in 2013, almost four years behind schedule, and full completion
may be pushed back to 2022, he said.  ‘Serious’ Situation  “We see the situation as still very serious and we have
rather little hope that the risk situation in Hungary will
improve in any meaningful way in 2011,” Erste Chief Executive
Officer Andreas Treichl said in an interview on April 28. Erste
expects bad loans in the country won’t peak before 2012.  Orban’s Cabinet and local lenders may reach an agreement
this year on incentives to boost lending to households and
small- and medium-sized enterprises, Banking Association
President Mihaly Patai said in a June 3 interview.  The government may lower the base of the special tax on
banks in exchange for banks boosting lending, Economy Ministry
State Secretary Andras Karman said last month, Nepszabadsag
reported on May 30.  At Polus Palace, problems started when the complex’s
lucrative conference business dried up in the first half of 2010
as companies cut back on spending, founder Polus said. As
occupancy dropped and the resort went into bankruptcy, the 18-
hole course was put up for sale, so far unsuccessfully.  “I thought that asking for a temporary moratorium on the
repayment of our loan in the midst of a crisis is almost
natural,” he said. “However, this wasn’t the case. We couldn’t
reach an agreement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  