-- 
TV Advertising Gets Microsoft Backing Amid ‘Web Guerrilla’

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-20T13:05:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/tv-advertising-gets-microsoft-backing-as-web-guerilla-surges.html
WPP Plc (WPP)  and  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  are
racing to expand their Web and mobile-phone advertising
businesses to catch consumers’ attention.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  says
they shouldn’t forget a much more traditional route: television.  There has “never been a better time for TV advertising to
seize the moment,” Microsoft Advertising and BBDO Worldwide, a
unit of the world’s second-biggest ad company  Omnicom Group
Inc. (OMC) , said in a study released today. The survey among 1,500
consumers in the U.S., China,  Russia , the U.K. and  Saudi Arabia 
shows that “TV is a rich, powerful medium and advertisers
should continue to be making great ads for it.”  The call by the world’s biggest software maker, which spent
$1.6 billion on advertising last year, is targeted at top
marketing executives gathering this week along the Cote d’Azur
in  Cannes  as they find the right balance between traditional
print and  TV advertising  and newer platforms such as computers,
tablets and mobile phones.  While digital advertising has the fastest growth rate, TV
is able to stay relevant because of new technology such as
digital video recorders and surround sound, as well as rising
viewership in developing markets, says ZenithOptimedia, the
research unit of the world’s third-biggest ad company Publicis.  Schmoozing  “TV is by far and away the largest advertising medium,”
Jonathan Barnard, ZenithOptimedia’s head of forecasting, said in
an interview. “It has strengthened and is continuing to do
so.” He estimates that TV ads will account for 42 percent of
the $216 billion ad market by 2013, up from 37 percent in 2005.  TV is especially powerful in countries such as Spain and
Italy that have been slower to adopt Web technologies, said Marc Bresseel, vice-president for global marketing at Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft’s advertising unit.  The annual  Lions  advertising festival in Cannes, which
started yesterday, is the industry’s largest gathering. At
lavish parties, ad agencies including Ogilvy & Mather, Leo
Burnett and  Saatchi & Saatchi  will schmooze with the marketers
such as consumer-goods companies  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , Unilever
and Coca-Cola Inc.  Speakers in Cannes this year include  Eric Schmidt ,
executive chairman of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , whose Android operating
system is the fastest-growing platform for smartphones that
allow users to surf the Web and download music and videos. Also
present are Martin Sorrell, CEO of the world’s biggest
advertising company WPP, Publicis CEO Maurice Levy,  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX)  CEO Jeffrey Bewkes,  AOL Inc. (AOL)  CEO Tim Armstrong and Nestle
SA CEO Paul Bulcke.  Vacation Disasters  Marketers are increasingly using the Web for campaigns such
as German health insurer DKV’s “hotel check web guerrilla.”
Created by WPP, it embeds videos of vacation disasters on a
travel website to convince consumers to take out a policy.  Contactless payments and coupon services such as those
provided by Groupon Inc. are also helping advertisers to lure
consumers are adding a new layer of targeting to mobile
advertising, which is growing faster in some emerging markets
than in the U.S. and Europe. Mobile advertising in  China  will
more than double to $1.16 billion in the next three years,
according to EMarketer Inc.  With television defending its place and Internet and
mobile-phone marketing campaigns on the rise, the loser is
likely to be print advertising, analysts say.  Digital Spending Spree  Online advertising will replace print ads as the second
most popular form of advertising by 2013, ZenithOptimedia’s
Barnard said. Web-based ads will be worth $94 billion by 2013,
compared with $91 billion for print.  WPP will spend more than 200 million pounds ($324 million)
this year on acquisitions, double its typical annual budget, to
expand in digital and emerging markets, CEO Sorrell said in an
interview last week. Dublin-based WPP is owner of ad agencies
including Young & Rubicam,  Ogilvy & Mather  and the Grey Group.  Publicis said today it agreed to acquire Genedigi Group in
China in a deal that would make the French company the largest
public relations agency in China.  Last month, the owner of the  Leo Burnett  and Saatchi &
Saatchi ad agencies agreed to buy Rosetta Marketing Group LLC
for an initial $575 million in cash to broaden its digital
operations. Rosetta will join the French company’s digital-
oriented brands such as  Digitas  and  Razorfish,  part of a
strategy of expanding that segment to 35 percent of revenue in
2013 from 28 percent last year.  ‘Emotional Connection’  Publicis slipped 26 cents, or 0.7 percent, to 38.03 euros
at 3:02 p.m. WPP fell 0.6 percent to 736.5 pence on the  London 
exchange. The 24-company Bloomberg  Europe  Media Index is 0.9
percent lower.  Advertising companies are bolstering spending as they’re
benefiting from increased investments by companies and consumers
following the economic slowdown. Still, worldwide ad revenue may
be recovering more slowly than previously forecast, as sales at
U.S. retailers missed analysts’ expectations and, in Europe,
industrial output in  Germany  slowed,  MagnaGlobal , a unit of U.S.
advertiser Interpublic Group of Cos., said June 16.  TV advertising will still grow an average of 8.3 percent
through 2016, according to MagnaGlobal.  Microsoft and BBDO say the effectiveness of TV advertising
is not only backed up by quantitative research and numbers. For
their survey, the two companies analyzed consumers’
“emotional” connections with TV, personal computers and mobile
devices.  While wireless gadgets are the “most personal device and
something users feel close to,” TV has the advantage that its
audience is receptive and “waiting to be entertained and
humored,” the two companies said.  Even some of digital advertising’s most fervent advocates
are convinced of TV’s permanence as a key marketing channel. In
a speech in Cannes today about the changing online media scene,
Huffington Post co-founder  Arianna Huffington  paused to refer to
an ad for Chivas whisky she had seen recently and admired.  “I was sitting in a hotel room watching TV,” she said.
“Even I still do that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 Athomson6@bloomberg.net .
Matthew Campbell in Cannes,  France , via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  