-- 
Voters Want Obama to Put Winning the Present First: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-06-19T15:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-19/voters-want-obama-to-put-winning-the-present-first-albert-hunt.html
White House strategist  David Plouffe 
says all President Barack Obama’s messages should be directed to
a middle-aged, white woman in  Ohio . When a person in this target
audience considers the economy and the administration, which of
the following is her first thought:  a.) There are “signs of real strength.”  b.) The top priority is jobs.  c.) There are “bumps on the road to recovery.”  d.) The chief charge is tackling the chronic deficits and
debt.  e.) There remain “some serious headwinds.”  All of the above have been conveyed by Obama over the past
several months. If this composite Buckeye voter is paying close
attention, she’s probably confused.  That’s what Mary Boyle, a former Democratic candidate for
the  U.S. Senate  from Ohio who meets Plouffe’s criteria for the
ideal message recipient, suggests.  “Folks here would like to see the president convey a sense
of confidence about where we’re going,” she says. Obama’s
cautiousness today is in sharp contrast to the fall of 2008 when
“he was decisive and communicated what it was all about.”  Other Ohio Democrats have the same message. “They could do
a better job of explaining the complex issues of the economy and
relating to what the average family is going through,” says
John Boccieri, a former congressman who remains a big Obama fan.  Message Is Blurred  Some of the state’s politicos are less generous. “The
message on the economy is blurred,” says Tim Hagan, a veteran
Democrat and the party’s former gubernatorial candidate. The
people around Obama, he says, are more attuned to  Wall Street 
than to Main Street: “They’re insensitive to how people are
hurting.”  If that’s not the case -- as the president insists -- the
White House hasn’t communicated it well, say more than a few
Democratic politicians. Their view is backed up by recent focus
groups of voters. Consistency of policy may be elusive in tough
times; a consistency of explanation and empathy shouldn’t be.  This problem will be compounded this summer by the
departure of  Austan Goolsbee , the chairman of the president’s
 Council of Economic Advisers . Although he hasn’t always been
central to economic policy making -- especially when he was
brushed aside foolishly in the first two years of the
administration -- Goolsbee has been the most effective public
spokesman for Obama’s economic programs.  Geithner as Mr. Inside  If Goolsbee is the Mr. Outside of Obamanomics, there has
been only one Mr. Inside, the influential Treasury chief,
 Timothy Geithner . Some of the secretary’s associates continue to
suggest he may leave after the deadlock over raising the debt
ceiling is resolved this summer. He has worked around the clock
for the past three years, first as head of the  New York  Federal
Reserve, and he has personal reasons to move back to New York.  That would be a body blow for Obama. With the economic
recovery seemingly stalled, and without a coherent message, the
departure in less than a year of five of the president’s top
economic advisers, including the most influential one, would
make the economic ship of state look like the Titanic. Voters
and markets understandably would be rattled.  That’s why despite Geithner’s private conversations about
an early departure, it’s hard to imagine the president won’t
pressure him to stay.  Greek Default Risk  With unemployment stuck around 9 percent, credit still too
scarce for much of Main Street, and other dangers looming --
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said last week
the almost certain Greek default could cause another recession
in the U.S. -- the natural response would be another big dose of
short-term stimulus spending. Since that never could get past
congressional Republicans, the president has remained largely
silent on the issue.  There may be some marginally helpful measures commanding
bipartisan support. Last week,  Roger Altman , the Wall Street
executive and Democratic economic-policy adviser, proposed
several steps: Defer any deficit reduction until 2013, and
extend some of the stimulus measures enacted in December,
including a payroll-tax reduction for employees, more liberal
capital expenditure write-offs for business and extended
emergency jobless benefits. The White House also has been
weighing temporary payroll-tax cuts for employers.  Company Tax Holiday  It also is likely there will be other proposals from
frustrated Democrats, such as a tax reduction or tax holiday for
companies that repatriate overseas income if those funds are
directed to  job creation  at home. The White House and many
economists who have studied this proposal concluded it’s an
ineffective subsidy.  Some of what  Franklin D. Roosevelt  tried during the
Depression was ineffective; yet he still managed to convey a
sense of purpose that often seems lacking today.  The focus of this White House all too often is on the spin,
or winning the short-term news cycle. The compelling narrative
that marked the Obama presidential campaign is absent when it
comes to explaining the economy. Even in the current deficit-
reduction negotiations, the administration’s approach seems more
tactical than strategic or substantive.  With politics and next year’s election dominating -- as it
invariably does at this time in the cycle -- the White House
approach has been emboldened by Republican miscues, particularly
the House-approved plan to transform Medicare. Most Democratic
strategists believe the Republican presidential field is
comparatively weak. And Democrats believe they may be catching a
break with gas prices on the decline. All this, the White House
figures, combines to potentially minimize the president’s
electoral liability on the economy.  It’s clear what the Obama campaign will and won’t be about.
The record will be deemphasized. The priorities will be to paint
the opposition as out of the mainstream extremists who are
unequipped to handle America’s challenges. The Obama mantra of
“Win the Future” is a convenient slogan for this strategy.  To rely on the other guy’s failings is always dicey in
politics. And to win that future, Obama needs to persuade a lot
of skeptical Americans that there’s a way out of the present.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  