-- 
Republican Race Reshaped by Pawlenty Exit

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-08-14T17:30:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/bachmann-wins-iowa-straw-poll-of-republican-candidates-ron-paul-is-second.html
The Republican presidential
nomination fight for 2012 has been reset after a hard-fought
straw-poll win, the entrance of a new contestant and the
withdrawal from the race by  Tim Pawlenty .  The former  Minnesota  governor announced today in an
interview on ABC’s “This Week” program that he’s ending his
campaign after finishing third yesterday in the Iowa Straw Poll.  “I thought I would have been a great president, but
obviously that pathway for now isn’t there,” he said.  U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota, who won
yesterday’s straw poll, said on the same ABC program that
Pawlenty had brought a “really important voice” to the race.  Like Bachmann, Pawlenty, 50, had concentrated his campaign
on Iowa. The straw-poll results showed that Bachmann’s efforts
had been more successful than his, though she didn’t formally
announce her candidacy until June 27.  “The party is going to be now more broadly discussing who
they want for their candidate, not just in  Iowa , but in other
places around the country,” Pawlenty said.  For himself, Pawlenty said he knew that his fundraising
would be hurt by his straw-poll finish and that he wouldn’t
“have the fuel to keep the car going down the road.”  Pawlenty, who made his first high-profile speech in Iowa in
November 2009, said he would probably eventually endorse another
candidate. He said he wasn’t interested in being vice president,
after being on the short list of prospective running mates for
2008 Republican presidential nominee  John McCain , who picked
then-Alaska Governor Sarah Palin.  ‘Bright Future’  Pawlenty’s “common-sense conservative voice will remain
prominent and influential as we work to beat President Obama in
2012,” said  Texas  Governor Rick Perry, who announced his
candidacy yesterday hours before Bachmann’s straw-poll win.  Pawlenty “has a bright future ahead of him as a leader in
the Republican Party,” said former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who leads in national polls and fundraising among
Republicans.  Bachmann will meet Perry at a Republican fundraiser today
in her birthplace of Waterloo, Iowa.  “That’s like the shoot-out at the O.K. Corral,” said
Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican who is a Bachmann
ally in Congress and popular with  Tea Party  activists.  Tea Party Voters  The speeches today in Waterloo, Iowa, will feature two
candidates who appeal to similar Tea Party and socially
conservative voters in Iowa -- the state that will host the
first nomination voting early next year -- and much of the
Republican Party elsewhere.  Securing those voters will be crucial to winning the Iowa
caucuses, scheduled for Feb. 6, and gaining momentum to fight
Romney.  “We have to win the caucus here,” Bachmann campaign
manager Ed Rollins said. “We’re going to work very, very hard
here.”  While Bachmann, 55, and several other Republican candidates
made their final push prior to the straw-poll voting in Ames,
Iowa, across the country Perry, 61, made his entrance official
with a speech in  South Carolina .  “We cannot afford four more years of this rudderless
leadership,” Perry said. “Washington’s insatiable desire to
spend our children’s inheritance on failed stimulus plans have
given us record debts and left us far too many unemployed
Americans.”  Bachmann won the straw poll with 29 percent of the vote.
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas, a libertarian-leaning
Republican, earned second with 28 percent, while Pawlenty
finished a distant third with 14 percent.  “This is the very first step towards taking the White
House in 2012,” Bachmann told supporters standing outside her
campaign bus following her win. “This was a wonderful down-
payment on taking the country back.”  Breaking Into Tears  Upon learning of her victory yesterday, the three-term
congresswoman broke out in tears and hugged her husband, Marcus,
as the bus driver began honking the horn, according to
spokeswoman Alice Stewart.  Bachmann’s win solidified her standing in the top tier for
the Republican 2012 nomination.  “It’s a big boost for her,” former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, who finished second in the 2007 straw poll, told
reporters. Huckabee’s showing gave him momentum that helped him
to win the Iowa caucuses in early 2008.  “Whoever wins or comes in second, they get gas for their
fire,” he said. “Whoever doesn’t, they get water for theirs.”  Pawlenty and his top aides left the straw poll before the
votes were announced, leaving behind an empty tent and
volunteers packing up folding chairs.  Gold Standard  Paul, 75, benefited from committed supporters drawn to his
fiscal policy, which calls for a return to linking the dollar to
gold, and a non-interventionist foreign policy that is the basis
for his opposition to the U.S. involvement in Iraq, Afghanistan
and  Libya .  “We’re into wars that are costing us trillions of
dollars,” he said in a speech at the straw poll yesterday prior
to the voting. “Those trillions of dollars should have been
left in the economy to build jobs.”  Weeding Out Candidates  Though previous straw-poll winners haven’t consistently
gone on to win the Iowa caucuses or gain the Republican
nomination, the contest does have a record of weeding out
candidates such as Pawlenty who fail to finish near the top.  Republican activists, donors and political consultants use
the poll to gauge the political prospects of the candidates. A
win often means an influx of new donations and grassroots
support, while a poor showing can all but end a candidacy.  Romney didn’t actively compete in the straw poll, though
his name was on the ballot.  Write-ins also were allowed, and Perry finished ahead of
Romney, 4 percent to 3 percent. Their showings placed Perry
sixth and Romney seventh.  Finishing in fourth place was former Senator Rick Santorum,
with 10 percent of the vote.  “Hopefully, with this finish, people will start listening
to what we’re having to say and put us out there with everybody
else instead of burying us below folks below us in the polls,”
Santorum said.  Godfather’s Pizza  In fifth was former Godfather’s Pizza Inc. executive  Herman Cain , at 9 percent.  Rounding out the field were former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia , with 2 percent, and former Utah Governor
Jon Huntsman Jr. and Representative Thaddeus McCotter of
 Michigan , each of whom received less than 1 percent.  Overall, 16,892 ballots were cast in the straw poll, up
from about 14,000 four years ago.  Bachmann totaled 4,823, while Paul had 4,671 and Pawlenty
2,293.  Huckabee said Bachmann shouldn’t be underestimated
nationally.  “Michele is really a very articulate candidate,” he said.
“She’s strong. She’s not afraid of people. And she is very
disciplined, even when people are throwing things right at her
face, she stands in the batter’s box and doesn’t flinch.”  Attendance at the straw poll, which doubles as a fundraiser
for the state  Republican Party , required a $30 admission ticket.
Better-financed candidates often pick up that cost and provide
bus rides to the venue, along with food and entertainment. A
ballot spot was guaranteed by renting space at the straw-poll
site or by placement by the state party.  Representative  Debbie Wasserman Schultz  of  Florida , who
also serves as chairwoman of the  Democratic National Committee ,
said all the Republican candidates were taking positions that
would alienate them from independent voters in the general
election, as they work to win a greater share of the Republican
base.  “They all are taking and staking out the same place on the
deep end of the right wing,” she told reporters. “The contrast
is going to be dramatic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  