-- 
Batista’s OSX to Add 14 More Floating Production Ships to Fleet

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-08-13T06:24:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/batista-s-osx-to-add-14-more-floating-production-ships-to-fleet.html
OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , the Brazilian oil
services company controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , expects
to add 14 more floating production vessels to its fleet as
Batista’s company develops South American oilfields.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA plans to operate by
2019 19 floating production and storage units that will be
leased from OSX, Carlos Eduardo Bellot, a director at OSX said
today in Singapore. OSX has orders to convert five of the 19
from crude ships, with the first one completed by Keppel Corp.
of Singapore.  OSX received a license last month allowing it to build a
shipyard in Rio de Janeiro state and will work on some of the
conversions of the floating production units when it starts
operations in the first quarter of 2013. The first unit built by
Keppel will start producing oil in November at the Waimea field
in  Brazil .  Keppel will work on converting OSX’s second floating
production vessel, Bellot said. Contracts for the remaining
three haven’t been awarded yet, he said.  OSX plans to focus on building offshore products, including
drill ships and floating production and storage vessels, at its
Brazilian shipyard, Bellot said. Hyundai Heavy Industries Co.,
the world’s largest shipyard, owns a 10 percent stake in OSX’s
shipyard.  OSX sees total demand for rigs and platforms in Brazil at
about $200 billion over the next 15 years.  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil producer, is doubling its
deep-water fleet to tackle projects in the Atlantic Ocean,
including the 6.5-billion-barrel Lula field, the largest
discovery in the Americas in more than three decades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  