-- 
Belgian Bank Talks Won’t Cover Post-2020 Greek Bonds, Coene Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-08-13T07:17:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/belgian-bank-talks-won-t-cover-post-2020-greek-bonds-coene-says.html
Belgian banks and insurers will not
be pushed to accept Greek requests for a rollover of debt that
matures after 2020,  Luc Coene , the governor of Belgium’s central
bank, said in an interview with L’Echo.  Euro-area governments are seeking to strike deals with
their banks on a rollover amount in order to ease Greece’s debt
burden. While the focus of these national talks has been on debt
that matures up to 2020, Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said this week that the timeframe may need to be
extended if the initiative is to succeed in easing his country’s
fiscal crisis.  “We limit ourselves to the options that were on the
table,” Coene told the L’Echo in the interview published today.
Post-2020 bonds will not be covered by discussions with Belgian
financial institutions, he said.  The debt swap is part of  Greece ’s second rescue by the
European Union and International Monetary Fund, a 159 billion-
euro ($226.5 billion) package that includes 50 billion euros
from bondholders that was agreed upon on July 21. Greece’s debt
is forecast to peak at 161 percent of gross domestic product
next year, according to European Commission projections.  Belgium’s three biggest financial institutions --  Dexia SA (DEXB) ,
 Ageas (AGS)  and  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  -- are involved in the Greek debt talks,
which will resume next week. Dexia is Belgium’s biggest owner of
Greek government bonds, with holdings of 4.27 billion euros at
the end of last year, according to its 2010 annual report.
Ageas, the majority owner of  Belgium ’s biggest life insurer,
reported Greek sovereign-debt holdings of 1.83 billion euros at
the end of March and KBC said it held 600 million euros of Greek
government bonds as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  