-- 
Bolton Spoils QPR’s Return to Premier League With 4-0 Win; Arsenal Draws

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-13T18:44:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/bolton-spoils-qpr-s-return-to-premier-league-with-4-0-victory.html
Queens Park Rangers’ return to the
top flight of English soccer was spoiled by a 4-0 loss to
Bolton, while fellow promoted side Norwich tied 1-1 at Wigan.  In other games on the opening day of the Premier League
season, Wolverhampton won 2-1 at Blackburn and Sunderland came
from behind to tie Liverpool 1-1. The Fulham-Aston Vila and
Newcastle-Arsenal games finished scoreless, while Tottenham’s
home match with Everton was postponed following this week’s
riots in  London .  QPR won the second-tier Championship last season to earn
promotion back to the Premier League for the first time since
1996. Bolton went ahead in first-half stoppage time as Gary Cahill fired a shot past goalkeeper Paddy Kenny before doubling
its lead 12 minutes into the second half on an own goal from
QPR’s Danny Gabbidon. Ivan Klasnic made it 3-0 in the 70th
minute and Fabrice Muamba closed the scoring nine minutes later.  Bolton had only two away victories last season and finished
the campaign winless in its final 12 games away.  Norwich fared better than QPR did in its first top-flight
match in six years by coming back at Wigan. The Canaries earned
promotion by finishing second to QPR in the Championship.  Ben Watson ’s penalty kick in the 12th minute gave Wigan the
lead. Wes Hoolahan then tied it for Norwich just before halftime
when he put in a shot after goalkeeper Ali Al Habsi couldn’t
hold onto Steve Morrison’s cross.  Penalty Miss  Stephen Ward’s goal two minutes after halftime lifted
Wolverhampton to the win at Blackburn. Mauro Formica put Rovers
in front in the 20th minute before  Steven Fletcher  tied it for
Wolves just two minutes later.  Sebastian Larsson’s goal in the second half earned
Sunderland the away draw. Liverpool’s  Luis Suarez  sent a penalty
kick over the goal in the seventh minute, but made amends by
heading in Charlie Adam’s cross five minutes later.  New managers  Martin Jol  of Fulham and Alex McLeish of  Aston
Villa  settled for a tie in their first games in charge. Fulham’s
Bobby Zamora had the best chance to score but his point-blank
second-half shot was stopped by Villa goalkeeper Shay Given.  Arsenal played the final 14 minutes at Newcastle with 10
men after Gervinho received red card in his debut for striking
 Joey Barton  in the face during a confrontation. Arsenal was also
without midfielders Cesc Fabregas and Samir Nasri, who have both
been linked with a move away from the north London club.  Manchester United  opens defense it its league title at West
Brom and Stoke hosts Chelsea in tomorrow’s games. Newly promoted
Swansea visits  Manchester City  in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celster@bloomberg.net  