-- 
British Gilts Rise for Third Week; Yields Fall to Record Low

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-08-13T06:30:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/british-gilts-rise-for-third-week-yields-fall-to-record-low.html
Gilts rose for a third week, sending
10-year yields to record lows, as volatile markets boosted
demand for safer assets and the Bank of England’s inflation
report indicated prices will moderate as the economy falters.  The difference in yield between two- and 10-year government
securities narrowed to 186 basis points, the least since March
2009, as investors added to bets that slowing growth and
inflation will keep  interest rates  near zero. Stock markets
fluctuated between gains and losses in the wake of  Standard &
Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S. and concern that French banks were
having trouble funding themselves.  “Despite 10-year gilt yields reaching a new low, we
believe yields can move lower,” said Anthony O’Brien, a fixed-
income strategist at Morgan Stanley in London. “The inflation
report suggests that the  bank rate  will remain low for a long
period. Financial markets are going to continue to be very
volatile over the next few weeks, and in that environment, safe
AAA assets like gilts continue to be a good investment.”  Yields on 10-year gilts declined 16 basis points in the
week to 2.53 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in  London  yesterday, up
from 2.459 percent on Aug. 11, the lowest since Bloomberg began
collecting the data in January 1989. Yields on two-year notes
rose 10 basis points in the week to 0.65 percent.  Sterling fell 0.7 percent against the dollar this week to
$1.6280. The pound declined 0.3 percent versus the euro.  QE Outlook  Near-term growth in the U.K. is “likely to remain
sluggish” and inflation should be “a little below target in
the medium term,” the central bank said on Aug. 10. Governor
 Mervyn King  said inflation may undershoot the central bank’s 2
percent target and the U.K. has “flexibility” to adjust
policies if growth proves to be weaker than expected.  “The  Bank of England  has moved closer to engaging in a
further round of quantitative easing,” BNP Paribas SA said in a
note yesterday. “We have therefore changed our forecast and now
expect that the Bank will engage in a further round of
quantitative easing of up to 100 billion pounds ($1.6 billion)
of gilt purchases.”  The implied yield on short-sterling futures expiring in
June 2013 has plunged 171 basis points, or 1.71 percentage
points, this year as traders raised bets that benchmark rates
will remain lower for longer.  U.K. gilts have handed investors a 7.1 percent return this
year, compared with 6.4 percent for U.S. Treasuries and 4.6
percent in  Germany , according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  