-- 
Cameron Recruits Ex-U.S. Police Commissioner to Advise on Riots

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-08-13T13:07:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/cameron-recruits-ex-u-s-police-commissioner-to-advise-on-riots.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  has
recruited former U.S. police commissioner Bill Bratton to advise
the British government on tackling gang culture after widespread
rioting ravaged cities and left five people dead.  Bratton will fly to the U.K for a series of meetings later
this year as Cameron responds to the past week’s outbreak of
looting and arson, the premier’s office said in a statement.  Bratton, 63, will “share his experience of tackling gangs
while police chief in  Boston ,  New York  and  Los Angeles ,”
according to last night’s statement. He’s providing advice in a
“personal capacity” and won’t be paid for the role, it said.  Riots that began in north London on Aug. 6 quickly spread
across the capital and to cities including Birmingham,
Liverpool, Manchester, Nottingham and Wolverhampton. Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said today he’s committed to
reducing police spending and that the challenges facing Britain
are not simply about budgets but “deep-seated social problems.”  Bratton was a candidate to take charge of London’s
Metropolitan Police, known as the Met, in 2004, two years into
his stint as commissioner of the LA force, the Los Angeles Times
reported at the time. Bob Kiley, an American who was in charge
of the London subway, had urged Bratton to apply for the post
after working with him in  New York City , the paper reported.  Eviction Notice  London police have arrested 1,222 people following the past
week’s disorder, and 704 people have been charged, according to
the Met  website . In Manchester, northwest  England , more than 200
people have been arrested, Greater Manchester Police said today.  A man in his twenties has been charged with robbing a
Malaysian student after pretending to assist him after an attack
in Barking, London, the Met said today. Video pictures showed
men approaching the victim under the guise of providing help,
only to rifle through his bag and steal a games console. The
student was released from hospital with a broken jaw.  Councils are also cracking down on suspected looters, with
a mother served an eviction notice from her 225,000-pound
($366,000) flat in Battersea after her son was charged with
violent disorder and attempting to steal goods from a Currys
electrical store, according to the Daily Mail newspaper.  Under housing rules, tenants can be thrown out if anyone is
involved in crime, the newspaper said.  Fatalities  The unrest began in the  London  suburb of Tottenham after a
local man, Mark Duggan, was shot and killed by police who
stopped his car intending to make an arrest. The violence has
seen gasoline bombs thrown and cars, homes and shops torched.  Three men died when they were hit by a car while protecting
property in Birmingham, another lost his life after being shot
in Croydon, south London, and Richard Mannington Bowes, 68 was
killed in riots in Ealing in the west of the capital.  Some British communities have been left behind by the rest
of the nation and cut off from its “economic lifeblood,” Osborne
said today. His remarks to the British Broadcasting Corp. come
after Cameron, who cut short his holiday to deal with the
disorder, rejected opposition demands for a review of policing
cuts following Britain’s worst rioting since the 1980s.  The government is reducing the number of officers by 30,000
across the country as it seeks to narrow the  budget deficit .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  