-- 
Dennis Rodman, Chris Mullin Among 10 Inducted Into Basketball Hall of Fame

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-13T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/dennis-rodman-chris-mullin-among-10-inducted-into-basketball-hall-of-fame.html
Five-time National Basketball
Association champion Dennis Rodman and two-time Olympic champion
Chris Mullin were among 10 people inducted into the  Basketball
Hall of Fame .  Eleven-time All-Star Artis Gilmore, former NBA players
Arvydas Sabonis and Tom “Satch” Sanders, longtime coach Tex Winter, college coaches Herb Magee and Tara VanDerveer, Women’s
NBA player Teresa Edwards and Harlem Globetrotter Reece
“Goose” Tatum also were enshrined last night in the
Springfield, Massachusetts-based Hall.  Rodman, 50, who arrived wearing a cowboy hat adorned with
feathers and white sunglasses, won three NBA titles with the
 Chicago Bulls  and two with the  Detroit Pistons .  The flamboyant Rodman said he was like most players who
were determined to get out of low-income housing projects.  “I did that, but it took a lot of hard work and it took a
lot of bumps along the road,” Rodman said.  Mullin, 48, was also a finalist last year. The two-time
Olympic gold medalist had 17,911 points, 4,034 rebounds and
3,450 assists during a 17-year career for the Golden State
Warriors and Indiana Pacers before retiring in 2001.  Far From Flatbush  “Looking out, I realize I’m a long way from Flatbush
Avenue, but  Brooklyn ’s definitely in the house tonight,” the
New York native and St. John’s University alum told the crowd.  Winter coached in college and the pros from 1947 to 2006,
winning nine NBA championships as an assistant. He is considered
an innovator of the triangle offense, which both the Chicago
Bulls and  Los Angeles Lakers  used under Winter and  Phil Jackson 
to claim league titles.  Magee, the coach at Division II Philadelphia University, is
the career leader for wins at the same institution for any level
of college basketball. He has won 922 games in 44 seasons at the
school.  Sabonis, a center from  Lithuania , was among the top
international players in the world. He played for the Portland
Trail Blazers from 1995-96 to 2002-03.  Gilmore played in both the NBA and American Basketball
Association. His 24,941 points ranks 20th on career lists, while
his 16,330 rebounds ranks fifth.  Sanders, elected as a contributor, played for the  Boston
Celtics  from 1961 to 1969 and later coached the Celtics and
 Harvard University . Sanders helped form several NBA player-
development programs.  Women’s committee selectees were Edwards and VanDerveer.
Edwards was the first U.S. basketball player to participate in
five Olympics, winning four gold medals and a bronze.  VanDerveer, who has led Stanford to two national women’s
championships, was named this season’s collegiate coach of the
year by the Women’s Basketball Coaches Association. Over a 32-
year career, VanDerveer has an 826-198 record.  Tatum, who died in 1967, was the original “clown prince”
of the Globetrotters, who mix basketball with comedy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in  Washington  at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 