-- 
Texas Governor Perry Makes Presidential Bid to End ‘Rudderless’ Leadership

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/texas-governor-perry-announces-he-will-run-for-2012-republican-nomination.html
Rick Perry , the longest-serving U.S.
governor and an early Tea Party supporter, stepped into the
Republican presidential campaign touting the economic buoyancy
of  Texas  and his plans to reduce federal authority.  Perry, 61, who considered a run for months, made it
official in Charleston, South Carolina, at a meeting sponsored
by RedState.com, a self-described “conservative news blog.” He
later flew to  New Hampshire , site of the first 2012 primary
election. He plans to campaign today in New Hampshire and  Iowa .  “We cannot afford four more years of this rudderless
leadership,” Perry said to about 500 people in a hotel
ballroom. “Washington’s insatiable desire to spend our
children’s inheritance on failed stimulus plans has given us
record debts.”  Perry will need to surpass  Mitt Romney , the former
Massachusetts governor and investor who has led most surveys of
likely Republican voters. Romney touted his experience  creating
jobs  during an Aug. 11 debate in Iowa. Since Perry took charge
in December 2000 through May of this year, nonfarm payroll
employment in Texas climbed by almost 1.02 million, according to
U.S. Labor Department data.  Enthusiasm for Perry’s campaign in southern states is
overtaking Romney and other candidates, said Katon Dawson, a
former South Carolina Republican Party chairman who has
organized support for Perry in recent weeks. Perry’s leadership
at an Aug. 6 prayer rally in Houston impressed many southern
Republicans, he said.  “Romney spent more than $10 million in  South Carolina  four
years ago and couldn’t scratch,” Dawson said, citing Romney’s
fourth-place finish. “There’s something about his message that
doesn’t resonate in South Carolina.”  First Southern Primary  South Carolina holds the first southern primary of 2012. No
Republican has captured the presidential nomination without a
victory in the primary there since  Ronald Reagan  in 1980,
according to David Woodard, a former consultant to  Jim DeMint ,
the state’s junior senator.  Perry’s skill at raising money in Texas shows he could
attract funding to run against President Obama in a general
election, Dawson said.  Dawson, a Republican National Committee member, estimated
that the Republican nominee will need $750 million to run a
campaign against Obama, who raised that much in 2008. Dawson
said The governor’s campaign committee has received more than
$200 million in donations since 2001,  according  to Texans for
Public Justice, an Austin-based research group that studies
campaign finance issues.  “If you check his record, the more he was attacked in
Texas, the more Texans showed up to support Rick Perry,” Dawson
said.  Downgrading  Washington   Perry blamed President  Barack Obama ’s “tax, spend and
borrow agenda” for causing Standard & Poor’s Corp.’s decision
to cut the U.S. credit rating.  “For nearly three years President Obama has been
downgrading American jobs, downgrading our standing in the
world, downgrading our financial stability, downgrading
confidence and downgrading the hope of a better future for our
children,” Perry said. “I will work every day to make
Washington D.C. as inconsequential in your lives as I can.”  Perry described the president’s foreign policy as an
“incoherent muddle.” The U.S. has “insulted our friends and
encouraged our enemies,” he said.  The Obama campaign responded to Perry’s announcement with
an e-mailed statement criticizing the Texas governor’s economic
policies as “a carbon copy of the economic policies of
Washington Republicans.”  Tall Tale  “Middle-class families know his economic record is no
miracle -- it’s a tall tale,” the Obama campaign e-mail said.
“In a Republican field that has already pledged allegiance to
the  Tea Party  and failed to present any plan that will benefit
the middle class or create the jobs America needs to win the
future, Governor Perry offers more of the same.”  Employment growth in Texas hasn’t created enough well-paid
positions or improved access to health care, said Scott McCown,
executive director of the Center for Public Policy Priorities, a
nonprofit group in Austin that advocates for low-income Texans.  “We have the highest percentage of low-wage jobs and we
are first in the number of uninsured,” McCown said by telephone
yesterday. “And because of Texas’s regressive tax system, low-
wage earners here pay the fifth-highest wage taxes in the
country.”  Air Force Pilot  Perry, a former U.S. Air Force pilot and West Texas farmer
and rancher, began his political career as a Democrat in the
state Legislature in 1984. He has never lost an election.  Helped by political consultant  Karl Rove , Perry won his
first statewide race in 1990, for agriculture commissioner,
after switching to the  Republican Party  in 1989. Elected
lieutenant governor in 1998, he took over the top spot in
December 2000 after  George W. Bush , another Rove client,
resigned the office ahead of his swearing in as U.S. president.  Perry said on July 19 his deliberations were prompted by
his wife, Anita. They met at an elementary school piano recital.
Married since 1982, they have two adult children.  Romney, 64, is a co-founder of Boston-based Bain Capital
LLC, a private-equity firm with about $65 billion in assets that
has invested in companies including Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc.,
AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc. and Bright Horizons Family
Solutions LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  