-- 
Tiger Woods Ends PGA’s Second Round at 10 Over Par, Misses Cut by 6 Shots

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-13T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/tiger-woods-ends-pga-s-second-round-at-10-over-par-misses-cut-by-6-shots.html
Tiger Woods  came to the U.S. PGA
Championship happy to be healthy again after a four-month layoff
due to knee and ankle injuries. He left frustrated after just
two rounds and in search of a reliable golf swing.  Woods, 35, missed the cut for the first time at golf’s
final major event of the season after finishing at 10 over par,
15 shots behind leaders  Jason Dufner  and Keegan Bradley. He
won’t play again in a professional event until the Australian
Open, beginning Nov. 10.  “Yeah, I got some time off again,” Woods told reporters
after his round yesterday at the  Atlanta Athletic Club  in Johns
Creek,  Georgia . “Now I’ll have nothing to do but work on my
game. That’s going to be good.”  It’s the first time in 14 PGA appearances Woods failed to
advance to weekend play, and just the fourth time in 62 Grand
Slam appearances as an amateur and professional.  Woods shot 3-over 73 yesterday following a 7-over 77 in the
opening round, his worst first-day score in one of golf’s four
major championships. It was his highest total score for two
rounds at the PGA and left him without a win in the past 10
majors, matching a career-worst stretch. He hasn’t won a major
since the 2008  U.S. Open  and remains four behind Jack Nicklaus’s
record of 18.  “It’s frustration, disappointment that I’m not contending
in the tournament,” Woods said. “I think it’s a step back in
the sense that I didn’t make the cut and I’m not contending in
the tournament.”  The missed cut is the latest setback for Woods, a four-time
PGA Championship winner, during a 21-month winless drought
marked by injuries and revelations of extramarital affairs that
led to his divorce and tarnished his public image. Woods, who
topped golf’s  Official World Ranking  for a record 281 straight
weeks from June 2005 to October 2010, entered the PGA
Championship ranked 30th.  Winless Since 2009  Woods remains winless since November 2009, and his
performance in Atlanta will keep him out of the U.S.  PGA Tour 
playoffs.  A two-time FedEx Cup winner as the PGA Tour’s season points
champion, Woods entered the PGA Championship  129th in the
standings . The top 125 players qualify for the Barclays
tournament -- the first playoff event -- which starts Aug. 25 in
Plainfield,  New Jersey .  For the past year, Woods has been working on changing his
swing with new coach  Sean Foley , a process that Woods said has
been hampered by his injuries.  “Sean and I haven’t had the opportunity to really sit down
and do a lot of work, so this will be our time,” Woods said.
“We are going to now be able to work and get after it.”  Next Event  His  next scheduled event  is a charity tournament for former
Stanford University golf teammate Notah Begay’s foundation on
Aug. 31 in Verona,  New York . He has committed to play in the
Australian Open in Sydney, Nov. 10-13.  Woods previously said he won’t play in next week’s
tournament in Greensboro,  North Carolina , because of family
commitments. His absence from the four playoff events would
likely hurt television ratings, which can rise as much as 50
percent when he’s in contention, according to figures from
Nielsen Co. It may also be a blow to the PGA Tour as it begins
negotiations for new TV contracts.  The missed cut is the first for Woods at one of golf’s four
majors since the 2009 British Open. The only other time he
failed to qualify for weekend play as a professional was at the
2006 U.S. Open. Woods missed the cut at the 1996  Masters
Tournament  as an amateur.  He tied for 37th at last week’s Bridgestone Invitational in
Akron,  Ohio , an event he had won seven times.  Woods’s last win in the U.S. was at the BMW Championship in
September 2009, two months before the one-vehicle crash outside
his Orlando, Florida, home that sparked a sex scandal, leading
him to take a five-month break from golf, and caused him to lose
endorsements from companies such as  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Accenture Plc (ACN)  and
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  