-- 
Republicans Compete in Straw Poll as Perry Joins Race

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-08-13T21:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/iowa-straw-poll-may-mark-end-for-some-republican-presidential-aspirants.html
As Republican presidential
candidates including  Michele Bachmann  and  Tim Pawlenty  made
final efforts to win today’s Iowa Straw Poll,  Texas  Governor
Rick Perry added his name to the White House race in a speech in
South Carolina.  “We cannot afford four more years of this rudderless
leadership,” Perry, 61, said at his announcement in Charleston.
“ Washington ’s insatiable desire to spend our children’s
inheritance on failed stimulus plans has given us record debts
and left us far too many unemployed Americans.”  Perry wasn’t on the straw poll ballot, though supporters
have been encouraging people to write his name in. He plans to
make his first campaign visit to Iowa tomorrow.  For Pawlenty, the former governor of  Minnesota , and
Bachmann, a U.S. House member from the same state, the stakes in
the straw poll in Ames,  Iowa , are especially high. Each is
focused on winning the Iowa caucuses that officially begin the
nomination process early next year as the best means of
propelling their candidacies, and a straw poll victory could
boost their prospects.  Bachmann, 55, has drawn enthusiastic audiences while
campaigning in Iowa. Pawlenty, 50, has built an extensive
political organization in the state and tirelessly campaigned
there. A poor straw-poll showing by either would deal a setback
to their presidential hopes.  The two spent much of an Aug. 11 debate in Ames featuring
eight Republican presidential candidates attacking each other, a
sign of the straw poll’s importance to their political futures.  Iowa Connection  Bachmann, an Iowa native and a favorite of  Tea Party 
activists, emphasized her connection to the state in a speech to
the straw poll audience today inside  Hilton Coliseum .  “In Iowa, we are social conservatives and we will never be
ashamed of being social conservatives,” she said.  “Whether we are Tea Party, or social conservative or
fiscal conservative or national security conservative, we stick
together,” she said. “We are the team that can’t be beat.”  Turning to the Democrat she and the other Republicans want
to run against next year, she said, “We are going to make
 Barack Obama  a one-term president.”  Pawlenty sought to persuade those in the audience that he
has the executive experience to lead the nation.  “I know what this country needs,” he said. “I understand
our conservative principals. I understand what needs to be done.
And I’m not just going to stand up here and give you the words.
You can take it to the bank. I will restore America’s promise
and lead this country to a better, brighter, stronger place.”  Weeding Out  Though the straw poll winner hasn’t consistently gone on to
earn the party’s nomination, the contest does have a record of
weeding out candidates who fail to finish near the top.  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , the frontrunner
in polls in the Republican race, didn’t actively compete in the
straw poll, though his name is on the ballot.  Along with Bachmann and Pawlenty, Representative Ron Paul
of Texas was rated by Iowa political analysts as having a strong
chance of winning the straw poll.  Paul, 75, in his straw-poll speech today highlighted his
fiscal policy, which calls for a return to linking the dollar to
gold, and a non-interventionist foreign policy that is the basis
for his opposition to the U.S. involvement in Iraq, Afghanistan
and  Libya .  “We’re into wars that are costing us trillions of
dollars,” he said. “Those trillions of dollars should have
been left in the economy to build jobs.”  Other Candidates  Other candidates on today’s ballot are former Pennsylvania
Senator Rick Santorum, former Godfather’s Pizza Inc. executive
 Herman Cain , Representative Thaddeus McCotter of  Michigan ,
former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  and former Utah
Governor Jon Huntsman Jr.  Santorum, in his speech today, stressed his social
conservative credentials, including his opposition to abortion
rights, drawing loud cheers from the audience.  “To suggest as a  Republican Party , that we can be a party
about tax cuts and spending cuts and not about strong families
and strong faith, you don’t understand Iowa and you don’t
understand America,” he said. “This campaign is about
scratching and clawing for every little bit of recognition we
can get.”  Cain vowed to jump-start the lagging economy. “Uncertainty
is killing this economy,” he said. “As long as
uncertainly is killing this economy it is killing this nation.”  Ticket Price  Attendance at the straw poll requires a $30 admission
ticket, so better-financed candidates often pick up that cost
and provide bus rides to the venue, along with food and
entertainment.  A ballot spot was guaranteed by renting space at the straw
poll or by placement there by the state party.  Chronicling the straw poll, which doubles as a fundraiser
for the Republican Party of Iowa, are about 700 journalists from
around the globe who have signed up for credentials.  Romney, 64, in his bid for the 2008 Republican presidential
nomination, spent about $2 million campaigning to win the straw
poll four years ago. He came in first with 4,516 votes out of
about 14,000 cast.  Still, he finished second in the Iowa caucuses five months
later and lost the nomination to Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona .  -- With assistance by David Mildenberg in Charleston,  South
Carolina . Editors: Don Frederick, Ann Hughey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Ames, Iowa at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Ames, Iowa at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  