-- 
Italian, Spanish Jump Most Since Euro Creation on ECB Buying

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-08-13T06:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/italian-spanish-jump-most-since-euro-creation-on-ecb-buying.html
Spanish and Italian bonds rose,
pushing 10-year yields for both down by the most since the euro
was created, after the  European Central Bank  bought the
securities as it sought to stabilize financial markets.  German two-year notes rose for a third week as stocks
declined and reports showed industrial production and investor
confidence fell, strengthening the case for the ECB to keep
 interest rates  unchanged. The ECB started buying Italian and
Spanish securities on Aug. 8, people with knowledge of the
transactions said. French bonds rose yesterday as Finance
Minister  Francois Baroin  pledged to hold firm on budget cuts.  “The ECB has been successful so far,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets
Ltd. in Edinburgh. “The markets are questioning how long
they’ll continue. The bigger question remains about how they are
going to solve the fundamental solvency problems in some of the
periphery markets. The jury is still out on that.”  Yields on the Italian 10-year bond fell 108 basis points
this week to 5.02 percent as of 5 p.m. in  London  yesterday while
those on Spanish securities with a similar maturity slipped 105
basis points to 5 percent.  Those were the biggest weekly declines since the inception
of the single currency in 1999. Irish 10-year yields slipped
below 10 percent, falling on Aug. 10 to the least since April
15. They rose yesterday by five basis points to 9.83 percent.  Next Week’s Data  Spanish and Italian yields had jumped above 6 percent last
month, approaching levels that forced  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal to seek financial aid.  Production in the 17-nation euro area slipped 0.7 percent
from May, European Union  statistics showed  yesterday. Economists
had forecast output to remain unchanged, the median of 30
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. Investor confidence
posted the steepest decline on record in August, the German
research institute Sentix said on Aug. 8.  Bunds may gain next week amid speculation a report will
show economic growth slowed. Gross domestic product in the euro
area probably expanded 1.8 percent in the second quarter
compared with a year earlier, down from 2.5 percent in the prior
three months, according to the median estimate of 23 economists
surveyed before the Aug. 16 release. Inflation numbers for the
euro area are due a day later.  Spain , Greece, and Portugal are scheduled to sell bills
while  Germany  is due to offer as much as 7 billion euros of two-
year notes. The Netherlands, France and  Belgium  are also
scheduled tom sell bills.  French Bonds  Gains by French bonds yesterday reduced the additional
yield investors demand to hold them instead of their German
peers by 10 basis points to 63 basis points, the smallest gap
since July 27. The spread climbed to 89 basis points on Aug. 8,
the most in the euro era based on closing market rates.  “The idea that they’re looking to add austerity and get
their financial house in order has been a good fillip to the
market,”  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London, said of  France .  The German two-year yield fell seven basis points in the
week to 0.70 percent, while that on the 10-year bund was at 2.35
percent, little changed from the close on Aug. 5.  German  government bonds  handed investors a 4.6 percent
return this year through Aug. 11, compared with 6.4 percent for
U.S. Treasuries and 3.6 percent in France, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds have returned 4.8 percent,
while Italian debt is little changed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  