-- 
Obama Tells Americans to Urge Congress to Do More on Economy

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-08-13T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/obama-tells-americans-to-urge-congress-to-do-more-on-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  said
Americans should contact their members of Congress during the
August legislative recess and pressure them to pass legislation
“to get more money back in your pockets.”  In his weekly radio and  Internet  address, the president
said that partisanship and gridlock have “undermined public
confidence and hindered our efforts to grow the economy,”
adding “there are things Congress can do” to help. He
reiterated his call for lawmakers to extend the temporary
payroll tax cut, fund projects to employ construction workers
and pass stalled trade deals.  Obama’s address is being released two days before his Aug.
15-17 rural economy bus tour through Midwestern states. He
repeated themes from his Aug. 11 visit to a battery plant in
Holland, Michigan, where he said that the downgrade of U.S.
credit by  Standard & Poor’s  was a “self-inflicted wound”
resulting from “partisan brinksmanship.”  “Members of Congress are at home in their districts right
now,” Obama said in the address. “And if you agree with me --
whether you’re a Democrat or a Republican or not much of a fan
of either -- let them know.”  Senator  Pat Toomey  of Pennsylvania said in the weekly
Republican address that Obama inherited a weak economy when he
took office in 2009, “but by nearly every measure he has made
the economy worse.” Toomey said lawmakers should repeal Obama
administration laws and regulations to create a more appealing
climate for businesses.  On Debt Committee  Toomey is one of three Senate Republicans named to the
special bipartisan congressional committee tasked with finding
an additional $1.5 trillion in savings by year’s end as part of
the deal Obama signed on Aug. 2 to raise the nation’s debt
ceiling.  Toomey, in the Republican radio and Internet  response , said
that “job-killing regulations” are contributing to
unemployment, gas prices and weaker home values and wages. He
called for the repeal of Obama’s health-care legislation that
expands coverage. Toomey also promoted legislation by Senator
 Ron Johnson  of Wisconsin to limit new federal regulations unless
unemployment falls below 7.7 percent.  Toomey also said that in his role on the special committee
he wants a proposal “that will reduce  government spending  and
help create an environment where entrepreneurs can thrive.”  If a simple majority of the panel doesn’t agree to
reductions by the end of the year, $1.2 trillion in automatic
spending cuts will be triggered over a decade, starting in 2013,
equally targeting defense and non-defense programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 