-- 
Obama Calls Saudi, U.K. Leaders as Syrian Violence Continues

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-08-13T21:43:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/obama-confers-with-abdullah-cameron-on-syria-dozens-killed-in-past-week.html
U.S. President Barack Obama, Saudi
King Abdullah and British Prime Minister  David Cameron  agreed
that the Syrian regime “immediately” must end the violence
against its citizens even as they refrained from calling on
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to leave office.  Obama called Abdullah and Cameron separately yesterday,
committing to “close consultations” about the situation in
 Syria , according to a White House statement. Syrian security
forces have killed at least 56 anti-government protesters in the
past four days, according to Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria.  Obama and Abdullah agreed that the “Syrian regime’s brutal
campaign of violence against the Syrian people must end
immediately,” the White House statement said. During the call
with Cameron, the two leaders “reiterated their belief that the
Syrian people’s legitimate demands for a transition to democracy
should be met,” according to a separate statement.  Canada  is extending sanctions on Assad’s regime to include
travel restrictions and the freezing of assets of two Syrian
companies, Foreign Affairs Minister  John Baird  said yesterday.
Members of the Assad regime are unwelcome in Canada, Baird told
reporters on a conference call from Mexico. Canada also has
frozen the assets of Syriatel Mobile Telecom SA and the
Commercial Bank of Syria and will prosecute any Canadians who
have transactions with them.  Canadian Sanctions  Canada first imposed economic sanctions on Syria in May,
banning the export of military equipment. U.S. Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton on Aug. 12 called on nations doing
business with Syria to cut off trade and arms sales to the
regime.  “We urge those countries still buying Syrian oil and gas,
those countries still sending Assad weapons, those countries
whose political and economic support give him comfort in his
brutality, to get on the right side of history,” Clinton said.  Syria, whose oil production is declining, produces about
386,000 barrels of crude a day and has the ninth-largest oil
reserves in the  Middle East , according to data from BP Plc.  Growing Death Toll  At least 10 protesters were killed yesterday,  Al Arabiya 
and  Al Jazeera  reported. Four of those killed died under torture
in Homs after being arrested a few days ago, according to the
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.  Yesterday’s reported deaths added to an already growing
death toll in the last four days. Assad’s forces have killed
more than 2,400 protesters since the revolt began in March,
according to Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human
Rights in Syria. The Assad regime also has detained more than
30,000 people, with some in cages, according to U.S. State
Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland.  The revolt against Assad’s rule began in March after the
leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  were toppled in uprisings and
unrest spread to Bahrain and Yemen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 