-- 
Reliance Communication Says Profit Falls 37% on Interest Costs

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 
2011-08-13T22:27:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/reliance-communications-net-drops-37-on-interest-expenses-forex-losses.html
Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) ,
India’s second-largest mobile-phone carrier, said first-quarter
profit fell 37 percent, more than analysts expected, because of
foreign-exchanges losses and higher interest costs.  Net income declined to 1.57 billion rupees ($34 million) in
the three months ended June from 2.5 billion rupees a  year
earlier , the Mumbai-based company said in a statement to the
Bombay Stock Exchange yesterday. Profit compared with the 1.92
billion-rupee median of 18 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Billionaire Chairman  Anil Ambani ’s flagship company posted
its eighth consecutive drop in quarterly profit, after spending
85.9 billion rupees on airwaves to start third-generation
wireless services. Reliance in December tied up with  China 
Development Bank Corp. to borrow $1.93 billion to help pay for
starting the faster networks this year in  India , the world’s
second-largest mobile-phone services market.  “There are higher interest costs because of the 3G
licenses coming into the fold, and there’s also the depreciation
line item,” Rohit Dokania, an analyst at Batlivala & Karani
Securities Pvt. in Mumbai who rates the stock “underperform,”
said. “Growth is also a problem for Reliance Communications as
the best customers have already been taken.”  Reliance had more than 143 million wireless connections at
the end of June compared with 169 million subscribers at Bharti
and Vodafone Group Plc’s almost 142 million accounts, according
to data from the nation’s telecommunications regulator.  Revenue Fall  Syed Safawi, president of Reliance Communication’s wireless
business, cited foreign exchange losses and interest costs as
the reasons for the fall in profit, adding the company expected
its wireless sales to see “healthy growth” in the coming
quarters.  Revenue fell 4.3 percent to 48.5 billion rupees.  Reliance competed with companies including Bharti and
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s biggest mobile-phone operator,
in an auction for 3G airwaves to ease congested networks and tap
new sources of revenue in a wireless market that is forecast by
researcher  Gartner Inc.  to exceed 993 million users by the end
of 2014. India had 852 million mobile-phone accounts in June,
according to the nation’s telecommunications regulator, second
only to China’s market in size.  Reliance won permits to start 3G services in 13 of India’s
22 telecommunication zones.  Share Plunge  Reliance fell 2.4 percent to 84.35 rupees at the 3:30 p.m.
close of trading in Mumbai on Aug. 12, compared with a 1.3
percent fall in the benchmark Sensitive Index, or Sensex. The
stock has declined 42 percent this year, compared with an 18
percent drop in the Sensex. Bharti has gained 8.4 percent over
the period.  Three officials of the Reliance Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group
are among the nine people charged in April and subsequently
arrested by India’s Central Bureau of Investigation in
connection with its investigation of a government sale of
wireless permits to ineligible companies.  The market value of Ambani’s publicly traded companies fell
by a combined $2.6 billion on Feb. 9 after the group said
“vicious and illegal” rumors sparked a selloff.  Ambani blamed rumors spread by rivals and stockbrokers for
a plunge in shares of his group’s telecoms, power and
infrastructure companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net  