-- 
Saudi Arabian Shares Climb as U.S Retail Sales Data Ease Recession Concern

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-08-13T14:00:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/saudi-shares-rally-to-one-week-intraday-high-after-u-s-retail-sales-data.html
Saudi Arabian shares rallied for a
second day, sending the benchmark index to its highest level in
10 days, after U.S. retail sales data eased concern the world’s
biggest economy is headed for a recession.  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s largest publicly traded lender
by assets, gained the most in five months and  Saudi Basic
Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest petrochemicals maker,
strengthened the most in almost two weeks.  The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose 1.9 percent, to 6,155.88
at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh, the highest level since Aug.
3, extending its two-day gains to 2.5 percent. The 147-company
gauge lost 6 percent in the past week, the steepest decline
since the week ending March 2, after the U.S.’s credit rating
was downgraded by Standard & Poor’s.  “The Saudi market, in the footsteps of Asian, European and
U.S. markets, took a positive reaction to the U.S. retail sales
report,” said Akef Al Tanbouz, head of asset management at The
Investor Securities in Riyadh. “And  oil prices  went up over the
weekend.”  A U.S. report yesterday showed retail sales climbed 0.5
percent in July, matching the median forecast of 81 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The  S&P 500  rallied 5.2 percent in
the final two days of the week, its biggest back-to-back gain
since March 2009.  Crude for September delivery rallied 7.7 percent in the
past three days to settle at $85.38 a barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange yesterday.  Saudi Arabia  holds one-fifth of
the world’s proven oil reserves.  ‘Subsiding Anxiety’  “Today we are seeing a relief rally on the market on
subsiding anxiety,” Asim Bukhtiar, an equity analyst at Riyad
Capital. “Fundamentals of the Saudi market are stable despite
international debt concerns.”  Al Rajhi  surged 3.3 percent, the largest gain since March
20, to 70.25 riyals, and Sabic soared 2.3 percent, the most
since Aug. 1, to 99 riyals.  Riyad Bank (RIBL) , the kingdom’s third-
largest publicly traded lender by assets, jumped 2.9 percent to
24.70 riyals.  The Saudi bourse announced today it will close for the
Islamic Eid Al Fitr holiday from Aug. 27 to Aug. 31 and that
trading will resume on Sept. 3.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 