-- 
SEC Said to Review S&P Math, Possible Leaking of U.S. Rating

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-08-15T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/sec-reviews-s-p-math-possible-leak-of-rating.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission is scrutinizing the method  Standard & Poor’s  used to
cut the U.S.’s credit rating and whether the firm properly
protected the confidential decision, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the matter.  SEC inspectors are examining S&P’s policies for conducting
such analyses and whether those procedures were followed when
the New York-based firm downgraded the U.S.’s credit rating Aug.
5, said the person, who declined to be identified because the
inquiry isn’t public.  S&P’s downgrade of the U.S. contributed to an equity rout
that erased about $6.8 trillion from global stocks since late
July. U.S. officials have said the downgrade was based on a
flawed analysis that overstated the nation’s debt by about $2
trillion, while S&P said the discrepancy doesn’t change
projections that the U.S. debt-to-gross domestic product ratio
will probably continue to rise in the next decade.  The rating company lowered the nation’s AAA grade to AA+
after warning on July 14 that it would reduce the ranking in the
absence of a credible plan to decrease deficits even if the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit were lifted.  The decision was at odds with the other two main ratings
companies, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, which
both said the U.S. continues to deserve the top  credit rating .  Possible Leaks  SEC staff also are looking into whether certain market
participants learned of the downgrade before its announcement.
The inquiry, which is in preliminary stages, may not result in a
referral to the SEC’s enforcement division, the person said.  Ed Sweeney , an S&P spokesman, said the firm doesn’t discuss
specific interactions it has with regulators.  “S&P takes its confidential information and securities
trading policies, and the related securities regulation, very
seriously,” Sweeney said in a statement. “Our policies
prohibit analysts or rating committee members from trading and
holding securities or options of the companies or governments
they rate.”  Sweeney said the firm has “long-standing policies and
procedures in place” to protect confidential information.
Sweeney also said the firm had previously indicated in a July
statement that there was a chance of a downgrade.  S&P “published several reports and broadly communicated
our views regarding the potential impact on other fixed-income
securities,” the statement said.  ‘Market Turmoil’  The rating downgrade added to concern that the economy is
weakening as Europe’s debt crisis deepened. U.S. stocks fell for
a third straight week, with the  S&P 500  losing 1.7 percent to
1,178.81 in the five days ended Aug. 12, capping a week of
record swings.  Treasuries rose, with 10-year yields falling as much as 52
basis points this week, the most since December 2008, and
signaling the lower rating hasn’t reduced confidence in the
nation’s creditworthiness. The yield declined nine basis points
to 2.26 percent as of 5:02 p.m. on Aug. 12 in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The downgrade followed an Aug. 2 agreement among U.S.
lawmakers to raise the nation’s debt ceiling and put in place a
plan to enforce $2.4 trillion in spending reductions over the
next 10 years, less than the $4 trillion that S&P had said it
preferred. The political wrangling that preceded the debt pact
was also a concern, S&P said.  The “debate this year has highlighted a degree of
uncertainty over the political policymaking process which we
think is incompatible with the AAA rating,” S&P analyst David Beers said on an Aug. 6 conference call with reporters.  ‘Quadruple A’  Former Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  said he would
invest in U.S. government securities before other sovereign debt
even though the nation’s political process isn’t working as well
as it could be.  “Our political process, our government, hasn’t been
working at a AAA level,” Paulson, 65, said on Aug. 11. “I
would take  U.S. Treasuries  over other sovereign debt, other AAA
sovereign debt, any day of the week. That’s not to say we don’t
have important issues to deal with in this country.”  Warren Buffett  also criticized the rating company’s
decision, saying the U.S. merits a “quadruple A” rating, in an
interview with Betty Liu of Bloomberg Television.  ‘Some Spine’  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond mutual fund,
said on Aug. 7 that S&P “demonstrated some spine.” The manager
of Pimco Total Return Fund has said that Treasuries are
unattractive because yields don’t offer enough compensation for
the risk of inflation.  Still, U.S. bonds remain in demand at a time when  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis threatens to spread to Italy and  Spain 
from  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . The Treasury’s Aug. 9 auction
of $32 billion in three-year notes attracted $3.29 in bids for
each dollar of debt sold. Indirect bidders, the class that
includes foreign central banks, bought 47.9 percent of the issue,
the most since May 2010.  The inquiry was reported earlier by the Financial Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  