-- 
State Bank of India Gains After Reporting Highest Revenue in Seven Years

-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 
2011-08-16T06:57:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/state-bank-of-india-net-drops-more-than-expected-46-on-bad-loan-provision.html
State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s
largest lender, gained in Mumbai trading after reporting its
highest net interest income in seven years, bolstered by loan
rates that climbed faster than funding costs.  Net interest income, or revenue from borrowers after
deducting interest paid to depositors, rose 33 percent to 96.9
billion rupees ($2.14 billion) in the three months ended June
30,  according to a statement on Aug. 13. Profit declined 46
percent for the three months ended June 30 to 15.8 billion
rupees. That compared with the 20.2 billion rupee median of 26
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The lender’s shares rose 2 percent to 2,240 rupees at 11:18
a.m. in Mumbai. Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri, who took the helm in
April, forecast that net income in the three months ending Sept.
30 will match the 25 billion rupees it reported a year earlier
after two straight quarters of earnings declines.  “Increased confidence on part of the bank management for
better margins going ahead is making investors more comfortable
in buying into the lender,” said R. Srinivasan,
a banking analyst at  India Infoline Ltd. (IIFL)  “Higher certainty that
a capital infusion will happen soon” is also helping improve
sentiment, he said.  A proposed capital infusion will happen by the end of the
financial year, Chaudhuri said on Aug. 13. State Bank has been
considering a rights offer of about 200 billion rupees since at
least February 2010 as it seeks funds to meet credit demand in
the world’s second-fastest growing major economy.  Bad Loans  India ’s government, which is the bank’s biggest
shareholder, may have to inject 90 billion rupees to 140 billion
rupees, the chairman told reporters in  New Delhi  on Aug. 6.  Chaudhuri forecast that the net interest margin, a measure
of lending profitability, would remain at more than 3.5 percent
for a few quarters after it widened to 3.62 percent from 3.18
percent.  Still, bad loans increased to 3.52 percent of total
advances in the quarter from 3.14 percent a year earlier,  State
Bank  said. The bank increased provisions for defaults, a drop in
the value of investments and other contingencies by 76 percent
to 56.6 billion rupees.  “The increase in bad loans is an indication of the overall
stress in the economy,” Chaudhuri told reporters in New Delhi
Aug. 13. Higher provisions weighed down profit, he said.  State Bank said in May that net income for the fourth
quarter fell 99 percent to 208.8 million rupees, triggering the
biggest one-day drop in its stock in almost two years, after the
lender increased provisions by 77 percent.  Loans climbed 19 percent from a year earlier to 7.9
trillion rupees as of June 30, while deposits rose 17 percent to
9.5 trillion rupees, State Bank said.  Slowing Credit Growth  Non-interest income, which includes fees tied to debit
cards as well as income from distribution of mutual funds and
insurance products, fell 4.2 percent to 35.3 billion rupees.  The central bank raised  interest rates  last month for the
11th time since the start of last year to curb inflation that
accelerated to 9.44 percent in June.  Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao also cut the
projection for bank credit growth to 18 percent from 19 percent
for the year ending March 2012 in his policy review on July 26.  Subbarao maintained his forecast for economic expansion of
8 percent for the year ending March 31, compared with 8.5
percent in the previous 12 months.  “We think that the earnings of Indian banks will continue
to come under pressure for the next two to three quarters” as
loan growth slows, Kristine Li, chief financial credit
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Singapore ,
said in a note on Aug. 4. The “underlying asset quality may
deteriorate as growth slows and interest rates stay high.”  India’s central bank asked lenders on May 3 to set aside
more funds to cover bad loans and double provisions for
restructured debt as it sought to curtail risks tied to defaults
by borrowers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in New Delhi at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  