-- 
U.S. Development Worker Abducted From His Home in Pakistani City of Lahore

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-08-13T11:13:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/u-s-development-worker-abducted-from-his-home-in-pakistani-city-of-lahore.html
A U.S. citizen has been abducted
from his home in the eastern Pakistani city of Lahore, U.S.
Embassy and police officials said today.  The U.S. is working with local authorities to secure the
man’s release, Alberto Rodriguez, a spokesman at the American
embassy in Islamabad, said by phone, identifying him as Warren
Weinstein. The LinkedIn networking website lists a Warren
Weinstein as the  Pakistan  country director for  J.E. Austin
Associates Inc.  since 2004. It says he has worked on dairy
production, horticulture and manufacturing projects, some funded
by the U.S. government.  Between eight and 10 people broke into the American’s house
this morning at a time when guards were busy preparing for an
early meal during the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan, according
to Abdul Razaq Cheema, a Lahore police official, who spoke to
the GEO television channel.  U.S. relations with Pakistan have deteriorated since
 Raymond Davis , a contractor working for the Central Intelligence
Agency, killed two men in February in a Lahore street. Ties
suffered a major setback when U.S. Navy SEALs killed  Osama bin Laden  in the Pakistani army garrison town of Abbottabad on May 2.
U.S. officials later said Pakistan had not been informed in
advance of the raid over concerns those hiding bin Laden would
be tipped off.  Travel Warning  Arlington, Virginia-based J.E. Austin Associates has among
others aided programs to develop Pakistan’s dairy farming,
according to the company’s website. It lists Warren Weinstein as
the company’s chief representative in Pakistan, saying he had
worked in international development organizations for 25 years.
A call to the company’s U.S. headquarters was not answered.  The State Department in its latest  travel advisory  for the
South Asian country warned that the presence of al-Qaeda,
Taliban militants and local sectarian groups posed a potential
danger to U.S. citizens. “The kidnapping of Pakistani citizens
and other foreign nationals, usually for ransom, continues to
increase dramatically nationwide,” it said.  In May a U.S. consulate vehicle was attacked in the
northwestern city of  Peshawar , killing one person and injuring a
dozen, including two U.S. employees of the mission. Unidentified
gunmen killed six local staff members of World Vision
International, a U.S.-based Christian charity in March last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Williams  at 
 mwilliams108@bloomberg.net  