-- 
Mushrooms Join Growing List of Radioactive Threats to Japan’s Food Chain

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-08-13T05:08:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/mushrooms-join-growing-list-of-radioactive-threats-to-japan-s-food-chain.html
Mushrooms are the latest addition to
threats facing  Japan ’s food chain from radiation spewed by Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  Nameko mushrooms grown in the open air in Soma, a city
about 40 kilometers (25 miles) north of the crippled plant, were
found to contain nine times the legal limit of cesium, the local
government said yesterday. Japan’s farm ministry asked growers
in Fukushima prefecture to refrain from harvesting mushrooms off
raw wood left outside, public broadcaster NHK said today.  Japan  is under pressure to enhance safety inspection of
foods, as it has no centralized system for detecting radiation
contamination. Authorities in Fukushima and neighboring
prefectures are conducting spot checks on products in
cooperation with local farmers.  Half of Japan’s rice crop is grown within the radius of
possible contamination from the nuclear plant damaged in the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami, and farmers are awaiting the
results of tests before harvesting begins this month. Radiation
exceeding safety levels has been found in produce, tea, milk,
fish and beef sourced as far as 360 kilometers from the nuclear
plant.  “By strengthening inspection on rice, we want to make sure
only safe produce are in the market,” Agriculture Minister
Michihiko Kano said at a press conference yesterday.  EU Seafood Tests  The European Union plans to strengthen radiation inspection
on imported seafood, both from waters near Japan and from
farther out in the Pacific, NHK reported today.  Levels of cesium-134 in seawater near the Fukushima plant’s
No. 3 reactor rose to levels 30 times the allowed safety
standards last month, according to tests performed by Tokyo
Electric Power Co, NHK reported at the time.  The forestry agency urged Fukushima prefecture to prevent
shipments of any wood or charcoal that has been stored outdoors
since the nuclear crisis, the Yomiuri newspaper said today. Jiji
Press reported that the farm ministry ordered the local
authorities to conduct tests on trees used for mushroom growing.  Tochigi prefecture, which borders Fukushima on the south,
has begun collecting rice samples for testing, according to a
report today on the website of the Sankei newspaper.  Last month, hay contaminated with as much as 690,000
becquerels a kilogram, compared with a government safety
standard of 300 becquerels, was found to have been fed to cattle.
Beef with unsafe levels of the radioactive element was detected
in four prefectures, the health ministry said July 23.  Prolonged exposure to radiation in the air, ground and food
can cause leukemia and other cancers, according to the London-
based  World Nuclear Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  