-- 
Yen Approaches Postwar High on Demand for Safety; Australian Dollar Falls

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-08-13T04:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-13/yen-approaches-postwar-high-on-demand-for-safety-australian-dollar-falls.html
The yen gained versus the dollar,
approaching the strongest level since World War II, as the
 Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S. and concern  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis is worsening boosted demand for safety.  The euro dropped the most against the yen in a month amid
bets the debt crisis may spread to France, and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will meet
next week. The franc plunged from record highs against the euro
and the dollar after the Swiss National Bank said a temporary
peg to the euro was possible to stem the franc’s gains.  The credit-rating cut “set the tone heading out of the
gates for the week,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in
Washington at Travelex Global Business Payments, a currency-
exchange network. “That was really the catalyst for such a
volatile week that we have witnessed. It’s predominantly the
risk-off trade that has dominated the Japanese yen.”  The yen gained 2.2 percent to 76.72 per dollar yesterday in
 New York , from 78.40 on Aug. 5. It reached 76.31 on Aug. 11,
almost at the postwar high of 76.25 reached March 17. The
Japanese currency climbed 2.4 percent to 109.30 per euro, the
most since the week ended July 15, from 111.97 yen. The 17-
nation currency slipped 0.2 percent to $1.4248, from $1.4282.  The franc dropped 1.4 percent to 77.79 centimes per dollar,
after reaching a record high of 70.71 centimes on Aug. 9. The
Swiss currency slid 1.2 percent to 1.1086 per euro after
touching a record 1.0075 on Aug. 9.  Australia, New Zealand  The currencies of Australia and New Zealand, which export
commodities, fell versus the majority of their most-traded
peers.  New Zealand ’s dollar weakened 1.3 percent to 83.22 U.S.
cents, while the Australian dollar fell 0.8 percent to $1.0355.  The franc and yen rose against all of their most-traded
counterparts Aug. 8, the first day of trading after S&P
downgraded the U.S. credit rating to AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5
after markets closed. The company said U.S. lawmakers failed to
cut spending enough to reduce record budget deficits. Stocks
dropped, with the  S&P 500 Index  plummeting 6.7 percent.  S&P expects the dollar, “for lack of alternative, if no
other reason,” to retain its reserve-currency role,  John Chambers , chairman of the company’s sovereign-debt committee,
said Aug. 8 in an conference call.  The Swiss franc rallied versus the dollar the next day by
the most since at least 1971, when Bloomberg records begin,
climbing as much as 6.3 percent as investors sought refuge.  Peg to Euro  The franc plunged 6 percent versus the euro two days later
in its biggest intraday loss since 1999, and fell 5.8 percent
against the dollar, after  Swiss National Bank  Vice President
Thomas Jordan indicated policy makers might peg the franc to the
shared currency. A temporary peg is an option to help curb the
franc’s rally, he told the newspaper Tages-Anzeiger.  The dollar dropped after the  Federal Reserve  pledged Aug. 9
to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low zero to 0.25
percent at least through mid-2013 to spur the economy. Policy
makers said growth this year has been “considerably slower” than
they anticipated.  “The Fed clearly and very bluntly highlighted the weakness
in the economy,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in
Washington at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency
brokerage.  The  European Central Bank  bought Spanish and Italian
 government bonds  this week, according to traders familiar with
the transactions, in an effort to keep the region’s debt crisis
from spreading to the countries. The action helped lower Italy’s
10-year bond yield to 5.02 percent, from 6.4 percent Aug. 5, and
cut Spain’s 10-year rate to 4.99 percent, from 6.46 on Aug. 2.  Sarkozy, Merkel  Sarkozy and Merkel will meet Aug. 16 in Paris to discuss
economic governance of the euro region, according to statements
from both leaders’ offices.  France , Spain, Italy and Belgium imposed bans on short
selling from yesterday to stabilize markets after European banks
hit their lowest level since the credit crisis, the European
Securities and Markets Authority said. A short is a bet an asset
will decline.  “If this ban is temporary and calms the markets and
restores the credit markets, the euro will breathe a sigh of
relief,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of research at online
currency trader GFT Forex in New York.  Futures traders reversed their bets that the euro will gain
against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 8,273 on Aug. 9,
compared with net longs of 1,763 a week earlier.  Volatility Climbs  Currency-market volatility hit the highest in 14 months.
Implied volatility among currencies of Group of Seven nations
reached 14.72 Aug. 11, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index showed.  The dollar fell yesterday versus the yen as the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer
sentiment slumped to 54.9 this month, the lowest since 1980.  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told lawmakers
this week the yen’s movements have continued to be one-sided
even after the government sold the currency on Aug. 4 to curb
its gains and protect Japan’s economy.  The yen gained 2 percent over the past month versus the
currencies of nine developed-nation counterparts, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The franc rose
5.9 percent, while the dollar lost 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  