-- 
‘Great Stagnation’ Looms as Confidence Lags

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-09-30T08:56:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/-great-stagnation-looms-without-confidence-gain-goldman-says.html
The U.S. and  Europe  face about a 40
percent likelihood of a prolonged period of economic stagnation
should policy makers fail to restore confidence, according to
analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “The prospect of a long period of stagnant growth is a
plausible risk and a legitimate concern for the major developed
economies,” Jose Ursua, a Goldman economist in  New York , wrote
in a report. “Whether these countries manage to avoid a ‘Great
Stagnation’ by a pick-up in the recovery is likely to depend on
policy being able to restore confidence and putting in place
reforms that can decisively jolt growth.”  The U.S. and Europe are already exhibiting signs that would
be typical of stagnations, characterized by “high and sticky”
unemployment, an average 0.5 percent growth rate in per capita
gross domestic product and stock markets that underperform
historical averages, Ursua wrote after analyzing 93 episodes of
the condition in the past 150 years. Economies face a higher
probability of such periods after market crashes “precisely of
the type observed during 2008-2009,” the report said.  Constraints on monetary policy today are “tighter” than
in 2008 for developed economies to avoid lengthy periods of
stalled growth, according to the report, dated Sept. 28. Central
bankers may begin to consider “truly unconventional
‘unconventional’” policies as a result, Ursua wrote.  ‘Bad News’  “The bad news is that it is still far from clear whether
enough has been done to jolt economic growth upwards and outside
the zone where prolonged stagnation is a serious risk,” he
said. “The good news is that policy makers are more aware” of
the damage wrought by stagnation.  The U.S. Federal Reserve is replacing $400 billion of
short-term government debt with bonds of longer maturity in a
bid to lower borrowing costs and bolster the economic recovery.
Most  Bank of England  policy makers said this month it’s
“increasingly probable” more asset purchases will be needed to
support growth, while European Central Bank officials are likely
to debate restarting their covered-bond purchases and further
measures to ease monetary conditions.  The  U.S. economy  will expand 1.8 percent in the third
quarter according to a Bloomberg survey of economists conducted
Sept. 2 to Sept. 7, down from a 2.1 percent estimate in an
August survey.  China Manufacturing  A report today showed Chinese manufacturing shrank for a
third month in September, and German retail sales fell the most
in more than four years in August. Two years into the euro-area
debt crisis and with investor concern growing that  Greece  will
be unable to avoid default, the U.S. is urging European
governments to go further and show more urgency. German
lawmakers yesterday approved an expansion of the European
Financial Stability Fund, and the overhauled rescue package may
be in place by mid-October.  Ursua wrote that the chances an emerging economy will
stagnate are “much lower” than for developed nations, and its
research put China, Russia and  India  at the bottom of the scale.
For all countries, the  unemployment rate  rises an average of 3
percentage points from the period before the bout of stagnation.  Income levels for a country saddled with a decade of
stagnation would be 20 percent lower than if it expanded at the
average rate since the end of World War II, Ursua said.
Inflation also is usually “much lower and flatter.”  “This reflects demand pullbacks that may be difficult to
correct if they persist for a sufficiently long period of
time,” the report said. “It also underscores the importance of
policy efforts focused on averting deflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  