-- 
3i Seeks $5 Billion Expansion in U.S., Asia to Double Its Credit Business

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-09-30T10:07:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/3i-seeks-5-billion-u-s-expansion-to-double-credit-business.html
3i Group Plc (III) , Britain’s biggest
publicly-traded private equity firm, is seeking to double its
credit business by expanding in the U.S. and  Asia , according to
Jeremy Ghose, chief executive officer of 3i Debt Management.  “We are actively looking at platforms of up to $5 billion
in assets under management,” London-based Ghose said in an
interview. “This turmoil has thrown up a lot of opportunities
so we have a lot of choices. I won’t be surprised if we get
something concluded in the next six to 12 months.”  Loan-backed investment vehicles are consolidating because
funding has dried up as Europe’s spreading sovereign crisis
prompts an exodus from riskier assets. Dallas-based Highland
Capital Management LLP put its European collateralized loan
funds up for sale, people familiar with the talks said Sept. 8.  In the U.S., the number of credit funds is about 200. In
 Europe , Ghose expects their number to shrink within five years
to less than 35 from 70. Collateralized loan obligations pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  3i Debt Management hired Rob Reynolds from Resource Europe
Management Ltd. this week to run the Credit Opportunity Fund
targeting bonds, loans and floating-rate notes mainly in Europe.
The fund has 50 million euros ($68 million) of  seed capital  from
3i Group.  Asian Plans  3i Debt Management also plans to tap into the Asian market
with a debt fund of about $250 million to $300 million to
provide senior and subordinated loans, according to Ghose.  The credit business started in October 2007 to buy high-
yield debt from European companies at a discount to face value
and now oversees $6 billion. It bought Mizuho Investment
Management (UK) Ltd. in September last year, according to its
website. It manages 10 funds including five CLOs under its
Harvest program, delivering an annual yield of 11.2 percent.  3i said last week the value of its assets is likely to drop
as stock markets decline, and is seeking to boost profit after
the credit crisis froze dealmaking. Shares have fallen 42
percent this year to 189 pence.  “We have access to permanent capital because we are
listed,” Ghose said. “This capital can be used for seeding new
funds, acquiring portfolios and making strategic acquisitions in
the U.S. and Europe. We are at the start of the transformation
to be in the top 10 credit managers in the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  