-- 
ABN Joins Deutsche Bank in Reviving Unsecured Bond Sales

-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 
2011-09-30T13:32:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/abn-joins-deutsche-bank-in-reopening-market-for-unsecured-bonds.html
ABN Amro  Bank NV, the Dutch lender
nationalized in 2008, sold 500 million euros ($672 million) of
senior unsecured floating-rate notes in the second offering of
the debt by a European lender in more than two months.  The two-year notes were priced to yield 125 basis points
more than the euro interbank offered rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The issue follows Deutsche Bank AG’s 1.5
billion-euro sale yesterday of similar-maturity notes at a
spread of 98 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  European banks’ bond market access has been restricted by
investor concerns on the lenders’ losses stemming from  Europe ’s
debt crisis. Before Deutsche Bank’s deal yesterday, the last
public offering of benchmark senior unsecured debt by a European
lender was from  Italy ’s UniCredit SpA, which sold 1 billion
euros of floating-rate notes on July 13, Bloomberg data show.  “We’re having new senior debt issues from banks at the top
of the pecking order,” said Alberto Gallo, the London-based
head of European credit strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc. “I don’t think the window for unsecured issuance will
remain open for very long.”  The cost of insuring bank debt jumped, with the Markit
iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps linked to the
senior debt of 25 European lenders and insurers climbing 11
basis points to 272, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The gauge
reached a record 314 basis points Sept. 12.  The Netherlands bought its stake in ABN Amro in 2008 after
the company ran out of short-term funding and customers withdrew
money. The Dutch government plans to sell shares in the bank as
early as 2014.  ABN Amro’s senior unsecured bonds are ranked Aa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service, and two steps lower at A by  Standard &
Poor’s .  Barclays Capital , Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank managed
the sale with ABN Amro, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 Hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  