-- 
Ackermann Says Global Economy Is on Brink of Another Recession

-- B y   M a t t h i a s   W a b l   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-09-30T14:36:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/ackermann-says-global-economy-is-on-brink-of-another-recession.html
Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said the delay in solving Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis may push the global economy into another
economic slump.  Recent sentiment indicators suggest “that the global
economy is on the brink of a recession,” Ackermann said in a
speech in Zurich today. “At the heart of the turmoil lies
uncertainty about the management of sovereign-debt problems.”  Concern that European officials will fail to contain the
region’s debt crisis and the U.S. recovery is faltering has
wiped more than $9 trillion from the value of global stocks this
quarter. Policy makers will again weigh how to intensify efforts
to stem the turmoil and avert a Greek default at an Oct. 17-18
summit in Brussels.  Ackermann also said policy makers need to prevent  Greece ’s
debt crisis from sparking regional contagion.  “At the very end, we will probably have some sort of
restructuring of the Greek debt,” he said.  While  Portugal ’s and Ireland’s efforts are “quite
reassuring” and Spanish measures are “positive,” Ackermann
said that Italy “is the big problem” and “has to do more.”  Crisis Talks  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will host European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and International Monetary
Fund chief  Christine Lagarde  in Berlin on Oct. 6. The talks
precede an Oct. 14-15 meeting of Group of 20 finance ministers
in Paris and the European Union leaders’ summit.  Fourteen of the 17 euro countries have ratified the upgrade
of the region’s temporary rescue fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility. A permanent fund is now at the start of a
ratification process that requires all 27 EU governments to
endorse an amendment to the bloc’s governing treaties.  Europe ’s recovery is showing increasing signs of a
slowdown, with confidence in the economic outlook dropping in
September and manufacturing and services industries shrinking
for the first time in more than two years.  About three-quarters of global investors surveyed by
Bloomberg this week anticipate the euro region will fall into a
recession during the next 12 months, with more than a third
predicting the European debt crisis will derail the world
economy in that period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthias Wabl in Zurich at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  