-- 
Ackermann Sees ‘Some Sort’ of Debt Restructuring for Greece

-- B y   M a t t h i a s   W a b l   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-09-30T14:25:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/ackermann-sees-some-sort-of-debt-restructuring-for-greece-1-.html
Greece may ultimately face a form
of debt restructuring following efforts by European policy
makers to prevent its woes from spreading to other countries,
said  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann .  “We will probably have some sort of restructuring of the
Greek debt,” Ackermann, who heads  Germany ’s biggest bank, said
in a speech in Zurich today. The bank chief cautioned against
moving hastily, saying his chief concern was that other
countries would end up in a similar situation.  European leaders are fighting to ease investor concern that
Greece’s sovereign debt crisis will spread to Spain and  Italy 
and cause losses for the region’s banks. German lawmakers
approved an expansion of the euro-area rescue fund’s scope
yesterday, and bondholders are in the midst of consultation with
authorities on a debt swap as part of the bailout.  Greece ’s debt burden in terms of gross domestic product is
set to come down to about “100 percent in 2020,” said
Ackermann. “That is still not enough, but it’s a good step,”
and the Greeks need to “do more.”  With the European Commission expecting the overhauled 440
billion-euro ($592 billion) European Financial Stability
Facility in place by mid-October, euro finance chiefs will
discuss next week how to speed up plans for a permanent rescue
fund that provides more capital and a tool for managing
defaults.  The current plan by European policy makers is a “first
step and the debt buyback is a second step,” said Ackermann,
63. Greek “privatization efforts are a third,” while the
extension of maturities will be another.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthias Wabl in Zurich at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  