-- 
Lady Gaga Joins Sting, ‘Newsies,’ City Bike Tour: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-10-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/lady-gaga-joins-sting-bike-tour-newsies-russian-grub-n-y-weekend.html
“Somewhere Over the Rainbow” and
other lyrics for “The Wizard of Oz” were written by “Yip”
Harburg.  John Corigliano chose the anti-war Harburg poem, “One
Sweet Morning,” for his new piece commissioned by the  New York 
Philharmonic in remembrance of 9/11.  The great mezzo Stephanie Blythe sings the world premiere
performance of the work, which also includes texts by Czeslaw Milosz, Homer and Li Po.  Alan Gilbert  is on the podium, with Barber and Dvorak
rounding out the program.  Avery Fisher Hall ,  Lincoln Center . Information: +1-212-875-
5656;  http://nyphil.org .  Saturday  The West ships outdated computers, games, phones and other
e-waste as technological “donations” to developing African
countries.  The stuff often winds up smoldering in vast toxic dumps
like Agbogbloshie on the outskirts of the Ghanaian capital city
of  Accra .  South African photographer Pieter Hugo shot the workers who
burn the monitors, motherboards and wiring to scavenge bits of
metal, capturing some unforgettable images.  “Permanent Error” runs at Milo Gallery, 525 W. 25th St.
through Oct. 29. Information: +1-212-414-0370;
 http://www.yossimilogallery.com .  Saturday Afternoon  Yearning for a real pierogie? Sample authentic Georgian,
Uzbek and Russian cuisine during a culinary tour of  Brooklyn ’s
Little Odessa. Organized by Noshwalks, it will hit gastronomic
joints along the Boardwalk and on Brighton Beach Avenue.  The tour is one of the attractions of Art on Brighton, a
two-day festival that brings together Russian-inspired music,
art, poetry, performance and the sea creatures residing at the
New York Aquarium.  Singer Mira Stroika, DJ Spinach and the Beachniks appear at
the Aquarium on Saturday, while Sunday brings a program for
kids.  Tours starts at 2 p.m., Aquarium bash at 5:30 p.m.
Information:  http://artonbrighton.org .  Saturday Night  Happy Birthday, Sting!  He’s celebrating his 60th in style,
with a benefit concert at the Beacon Theatre.  Also commemorating 25 years as a solo artist, Sting has
invited a few friends to join him: Lady Gaga,  Bruce Springsteen ,
 Stevie Wonder  and Billy Joel, to name just a few.  All proceeds go to the  Robin Hood Foundation  to fight
poverty in  New York City .  At 2124 Broadway. Information: +1-212-465-6500;
 http://www.beacontheatre.com .  Saturday Midnight  When the clock strikes 12, hop on a bike to explore New
York’s architectural landmarks as part of the city’s first
Velonight.  From Frank Lloyd Wright’s Guggenheim Museum to  Ground Zero 
in  Lower Manhattan , cyclists will visit 20 sites, including
projects by Mies van der Rohe,  Frank Gehry  and Rem Koolhaas.  Riders will be able to hear live commentary on their
headphones. The free tour concludes with an urban picnic at dawn
on Pier 1 of the Brooklyn Bridge Park.  Information:  http://velonightnyc.blogspot.com .  Sunday  Venality, vanity and idiocy rule in our times, but judging
from the amusing caricature show at the  Metropolitan Museum  of
Art, we’re no worse than past eras.  With a few deft gestures, artists have always sent up the
ridiculous, and here are early images from Leonardo, Bernini,
and Delacroix.  We’re brought up to date with Enrique Chagoya’s “The Head
Ache,” depicting a slumping President Obama tormented by six
demons, one pounding a stake into his skull.  “Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire From Leonardo to
Levine” runs at the Met, 1000 Fifth Ave., through March 4.  Information: +1-212-535-7710;  http://www.metmuseum.org .  Then stroll over to Beyoglu for authentic Turkish meze.
Start with stuffed grape leaves and hummus before moving on to
meaty doner kebab with yogurt and tomato.  At 1431 Third Ave. Information: +1-212-650-0850.  Sunday Evening  Root for the scrappy underdog taking on big business and
head out to the Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn,  New Jersey  for
“Newsies the Musical.”  Harvey Fierstein reworked the flop Disney film by giving it
heart, Alan Menken wrote some new songs, and choreographer
Christopher Gattelli put together some great moves for the
dancing newsboys on strike in 1899 New York.  Jeremy Jordon is the vocally adept hero and Kara Lindsay
his love interest.  At 7 p.m. 22 Brookside Drive. Information: +1-973-376-4343;
 http://www.papermill.org .  (With assistance from Lili Rosboch and Katya Kazakina.
Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 