-- 
Airbus A380 Engine Pylons May Need Air Holes to Avoid Fire Risk

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-09-30T17:05:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/airbus-a380-engine-pylons-may-need-air-holes-to-avoid-fire-risk.html
Airlines operating Airbus SAS’s
A380 superjumbo may be required to modify equipment that
connects the plane’s engines to its wings, safety regulators
said, citing a risk of overheating that could cause a fire.  Test flights revealed a buildup of heat in the pylons of
A380s equipped with Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc Trent 900 engines,
the European Aviation Safety Agency said today in a proposed
airworthiness directive which would require carriers to install
ventilation holes in some of the panels covering the structures.  “This condition could, in case of a heavy fuel leak, lead
to an ignition of fuel vapors, possibly resulting in a fuel fire
and consequent damage to the aeroplane and/or injury to its
occupants,” EASA said in the directive, which is open for
consultation until Oct. 28. If made mandatory, the modifications
would have to be implemented within a 10-month period, it said.  Australian carrier  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  grounded its A380s
for 23 days last year after a Trent 900 failure prompted an
emergency landing in  Singapore  on Nov. 4. Rolls-Royce has since
carried out modifications to address issues with a faulty oil
pipe, and the glitch disclosed today is unrelated, Airbus said.  The planned directive would affect the Trent-equipped -841
and -842 variants of the A380, all manufacturer serial numbers,
except for planes that have already been modified, EASA said.  Today’s proposal follows a bulletin issued by Airbus to
A380 operators on July 25 after the manufacturer uncovered the
overheating issue during its own test flights, spokesman  Stefan Schaffrath  said by phone, adding that the EASA directive is a
standard response. Schaffrath said that the period permitted to
address the problem indicates the low perceived risk.  EASA said no-one was immediately available to comment
further, and London-based Rolls-Royce declined to comment.  A380s equipped with Engine Alliance turbines made by
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and Pratt and Whitney aren’t affected.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  