-- 
Jamie McCourt, MLB Oppose Los Angeles Dodgers’ Proposed TV Rights Sale

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-09-30T21:51:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/major-league-baseball-objects-to-dodgers-proposal-to-auction-tv-rights.html
Jamie McCourt, former wife of Los
Angeles Dodgers’ owner  Frank McCourt , and Major League Baseball
object to the proposal to hold an auction for the bankrupt
team’s television rights.  Jamie McCourt and MLB said in separate court papers that
they will provide more details about why they oppose a sale
after the judge overseeing the team’s bankruptcy sets a schedule
for deciding the matter.  MLB referred to its previous proposal to strip Frank
McCourt of the exclusive right to reorganize the team. The
three-paragraph filing by MLB and Jamie McCourt’s one-paragraph
“preliminary objection” were made in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Wilmington,  Delaware , where the team sought court protection
from creditors in June.  Jamie McCourt is battling Frank McCourt in divorce court in
Los Angeles for shared ownership of the team.  Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  has asked U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Kevin Gross to let his office file a reorganization plan
that would result in a sale of the team. For several months,
Frank McCourt and Selig have traded allegations about each
other’s motives in court and in press releases.  Selig has accused McCourt of putting his interest ahead of
the club’s and of violating MLB rules designed to benefit all
teams. McCourt claims Selig is treating him more harshly than
other owners.  Gross will have to decide between forcing a sale of the
team or allowing McCourt to keep the Dodgers and raise money to
get out of bankruptcy by auctioning the right to televise future
games.  Gross scheduled an Oct. 31 hearing to decide the question
of whether to sell the team or the television rights.  The case is In re  Los Angeles  Dodgers LLC, 11-12010, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 