-- 
Laker’s Bryant Said to Get  $3 Million Offer to Play Basketball in Italy

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-09-30T14:42:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/laker-s-bryant-said-to-get-3-million-offer-to-play-basketball-in-italy.html
Los Angeles Lakers guard  Kobe Bryant  may get $3 million to play about 10 games in Italy for
 Virtus Bologna  during the  National Basketball Association ’s
lockout, according to a person familiar with the negotiations.  “We agreed on the financial terms of the deal with Bryant
last night,” Virtus owner Claudio Sabatini told Italian
television network Sky Sport 24 in a telephone interview.  The team said in a later statement posted on its website
that opposition from some Italian teams to Bologna’s request to
decide the schedule of Bryant’s games “calls into question the
economic basis of the project to bring Bryant in Italy.”  The Bologna team and the 33-year-old reached a verbal
agreement and he will be in the northern Italian city Oct. 5 to
sign the contract, according to the person, who declined to be
named because the talks are private. Bryant may play for the
team that has won 15 championships in  Italy ’s top league.  Bryant grew up in Italy because his father Joe, a former
 Philadelphia 76ers  forward, played in the country for seven
seasons from 1984 to 1991. The Bryants lived in Reggio Emilia, a
city located 75 kilometers (46 miles) north of Bologna, from
1989 to 1991 and Kobe Bryant speaks Italian fluently.  “It’s very possible that I will play in Italy,” Bryant
told Italian daily La Gazzetta Dello Sport in Milan Sept. 28. He
spoke in Italian while attending an event in Milan that day.  Top Earner  Bryant is the NBA’s top earner, according to Forbes
magazine. He had a salary of $24.8 million, $4.3 million more
than the  Washington Wizards ’s  Rashard Lewis , the next highest
paid player, the magazine reported last November.  A call placed outside of business hours to the Los Angeles
offices of Bryant’s agent, Rob Pelinka, wasn’t immediately
returned.  Italian teams are offering NBA players to play in the
country until the start of the North American season, which may
be delayed or canceled over talks on a new labor contract. The
top negotiators for the NBA and Players Association will meet
today with both the owners’ labor-relations committee and the
union’s executive body. The regular season is scheduled to start
Nov. 1.  Olimpia Milano, the Milan-team owned by Italian designer
 Giorgio Armani , signed the  Denver Nuggets ’s Danilo Gallinari.
Virtus Roma also is in talks with the  Toronto Raptors ’s Andrea Bargnani, Italian daily la Repubblica reported Sept. 21.  In 1998, the last time there was an NBA lockout, the first
postponement came on Sept. 24, when the league delayed training
camp, which was set to begin Oct. 5. The season was shortened to
50 games from 82 after an agreement was reached in January 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 