-- 
Al-Qaeda’s American Agent Said to Be Killed by U.S. Drone

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-09-30T17:13:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/al-qaeda-u-s-born-cleric-anwar-al-awlaqi-killed-yemeni-government-says.html
Anwar al-Awlaki, a U.S.-born
Islamic cleric who masterminded the attempted bombing of a
Detroit-bound airplane in 2009 with explosives hidden in
underwear, has been killed in  Yemen , the  Defense Ministry  said.  U.S. officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a
missile from an American drone aircraft killed al-Awlaki in a
joint CIA-military operation. He was targeted and killed near
the town of Khashef, 170 kilometers (106 miles) northeast of
Sana’a, the capital, the Yemeni foreign press office said today.
Intelligence services say he inspired a shooting rampage that
killed 13 people last year at an army base in Fort Hood,  Texas .  Al-Awlaki is identified by the  Office of Foreign Assets
Control list  of “specially designated nationals” as a 40-year-
old native of  Las Cruces ,  New Mexico , with dual U.S. and Yemeni
citizenship. Last year, President  Barack Obama  approved an order
making him the first American ever to be placed on the Central
Intelligence Agency’s hit list.  “He is an excellent role model for what al-Qaeda wants its
recruits to be in terms of English language, having exposure to
the  United States  or the West, and adhering to the doctrine of
al-Qaeda,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the
Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis.  Yemen’s government is under considerable strain following
almost nine months of anti-government protests aimed at toppling
President Ali Abdullah Saleh, Karasik said.  ‘International Fame’  Al-Awlaki reportedly survived an attack by a U.S. drone in
Yemen in May, according to Arabiya television, which cited a
member of his tribe. He was an avid blogger and used the
Internet to communicate with followers around the world,
something that “propelled him to international fame,” IHS
Global Insight analysts Gala Riani and Jeremy Binnie said today.  Obama, speaking at the start of a swearing-in ceremony for
the new chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Army General
Martin Dempsey, in Fort Meyer,  Virginia , called al-Awlaki’s
death a “major blow” against al-Qaeda that “marks another
significant milestone in the effort to defeat al-Qaeda and its
affiliates.”  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said in an e-mailed
statement that countries must “keep up the pressure on Al-Qaeda
and its allies and remain vigilant to the threat we face.”  Al-Awlaki’s death follows that of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, killed on May 2 in a U.S. raid on an Islamabad, Pakistan
suburb.  Boost for Obama  The fact that a drone killed al-Awlaki means “an immediate
return on Obama’s recent decision to increase the use” of
umnanned vehicles in Yemen, Riani and Binnie wrote in an e-
mailed report. “These foreign and security credentials are
likely to boost Obama’s bid of re-election next year.”  Pakistani-American Samir Khan, an al-Qaeda militant living
in Yemen, died in the same attack that killed al-Awlaki, Yemeni
state-run Saba news agency reported, citing an unidentified
security official.  Vince Warren, executive director of the Center for
Constitutional Rights in  Washington , called al-Awlaki’s killing
“the latest of many affronts to domestic and international law.
If we allow such gross overreaches of power to continue, we are
setting the stage for increasing erosions of civil liberties and
the rule of law.”  Yemen, bin Laden’s ancestral home, was the site of a 2000
attack on the USS Cole that killed 17 U.S. sailors. Since the
start of anti-government protests inspired by uprisings that
toppled the leaders of Egypt and Tunisia this year, concerns
about the deterioration of security in Yemen have grown. Former
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said in April that he saw
Saleh’s possible fall as a “real problem.”  Al-Qaeda Offshoots  In the decade since the Sept. 11 attacks on the U.S. that
killed almost 3,000 people at the World Trade Center in  New York
City , the Pentagon just outside Washington and a field in
Shanksville,  Pennsylvania , al-Qaeda offshoots have sprung up
around the Islamic world, from the Maghreb and sub-Saharan
 Africa  to  Iraq  and the Arabian peninsula.  An Obama administration official said al-Awlaki directed
Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, who is accused of trying to blow up a
U.S. jetliner in December 2009 with explosives hidden in his
underpants. Al-Awlaki instructed Abdulmutallab to detonate the
device over U.S. airspace to maximize casualties, the official
said. He also sought to use weapons of mass destruction,
including cyanide and ricin, to attack Westerners, the U.S.
official said.  Parcel Bombs  The threat posed by al-Qaeda’s Yemen branch was further
highlighted last October when two parcel bombs sent from the
country to U.S. synagogues were seized in the U.K. and Dubai.
The bombing attempts, in which devices were concealed in printer
cartridges, prompted the U.S. and European countries to bar
flights or cargo from Yemen.  Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the Yemen-based group,
has been examining how to develop body bombs stitched into a
terrorist’s belly, breasts or buttocks, Seth Jones, a senior
political scientist for the RAND Corp., a  Santa Monica ,
California-based policy research organization, said in a July 18
interview.  Yemen, which gets about $300 million a year in security and
humanitarian assistance from the U.S., stepped up operations
against al-Qaeda after the parcel-bomb attempts, including air
strikes targeting the group’s camps. Military aid to Yemen
includes Huey helicopters, Hummer vehicles and night-vision
goggles, the Pentagon said in August 2010.  Given al-Awlaki’s popularity, revenge attacks may be
carried out in the U.S. and Yemen, IHS analysts Riani and Binnie
wrote. “His death will likely be considered a victory for both
governments,” they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a, Yemen, at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  