-- 
Algosaibi, Lehman RBS Claim, Fjordbank Mors Sale: Bankruptcy

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S c i n t a
-- 
2011-09-30T10:23:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/algosaibi-lehman-rbs-claim-fjordbank-mors-sale-bankruptcy.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  won priority for
repayment over  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and five other banks in a U.K.
lawsuit seeking at least $250 million from  Saudi Arabia ’s
Algosaibi family and their company, which defaulted in 2009.  Priority for repayment from Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi &
Brothers Co. relates to five apartments allegedly owned by the
family and is contingent on HSBC’s so-called charging orders
against the company being finalized, judge Julian Flaux ruled in
the  High Court  in London. A trial over the apartments in
London’s Mayfair neighborhood is scheduled for Nov. 28.  “HSBC will have priority over the opposing banks in the
event that the charging orders are made final,” Flaux said in
the judgment. HSBC was first to apply for an interest in the
apartments after the bank’s legal advisers discovered the
properties by examining Algosaibi documents, Flaux said.  Algosaibi, with interests including construction, beverage-
bottling and finance, admitted liability in the matter in June
and hasn’t said how or when it will repay the banks in the case
or dozens of other lenders seeking repayment. The case includes
HSBC’s $85 million claim, British Arab Commercial Bank Ltd.’s
$19 million claim, Arab Banking Corp.’s claims totaling $140
million and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s $6 million claim.  The case is part of a global dispute between Algosaibi and
one of Saudi Arabia’s richest men, Maan al-Sanea, who married
into the Algosaibi family and founded the  Saad Group , which has
businesses ranging from construction to health care. Units of
Saad and Algosaibi defaulted after borrowing about $15.7 billion
from more than 80 banks.  The other banks in the case argued that if they weren’t
given an equal share of the apartments with HSBC, they may not
recover anything from Algosaibi due to the difficulty of
enforcing rulings in Saudi Arabia and “the unlikelihood of
assets being available elsewhere,” according to the judgment.  RBS Renews $346 Million Fight With Lehman Brokerage Over Venue  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  renewed a fight over a
$346 million claim by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s brokerage,
winning support from a district judge to file papers arguing the
case should be moved from  bankruptcy court .  The move follows a bankruptcy judge’s refusal to dismiss
the case, according to court filings.  Separately, the New York-based former investment bank said
creditors holding $140 billion in claims support its liquidation
plan that will be considered for confirmation at a hearing on
Dec. 6.  Jyske Bank Buys Parts of Failed Danish Lender Fjordbank Mors  Jyske Bank A/S said it agreed to buy parts of failed lender
Fjordbank Mors A/S. Jyske Bank takes over a customer portfolio
consisting of about 47,000 clients with total loans and advances
of about 2.7 billion kroner ($491 million) and total deposits of
about 3.7 billion kroner.  Aeon Bank to Take Over Failed Incubator Bank, Kyodo Says  Aeon Bank will take over failed Incubator  Bank of Japan (8301) ,
 Kyodo News  reported. Last year’s failure of the lender to small
businesses triggered the government’s 10 million-yen ($130,000)
cap on  deposit insurance  for the first time in 40 years.  Sevan Marine Agrees to Sell Oil Production Units to Teekay  Sevan Marine ASA (SEVAN) , the Norwegian maker of floating oil-
production and storage vessels, agreed to sell three of its
vessels to  Teekay Corp. (TK)  in an effort to avoid bankruptcy. The
shares surged as much as 87 percent.  Teekay will also buy an equity stake, Arendal-based Sevan
Marine said in a statement. Teekay will acquire three floating
production, storage and offloading units, along with their
charter contracts and finance the completion of the Sevan
Voyageur upgrade. The financial terms are expected to be
released next week, Hamilton, Bermuda-based Teekay said in a
separate statement.  “The proposed transaction with Teekay represents a good
solution for all stakeholders,” Sevan Marine Chief Executive
Officer Carl Lieungh said in the statement. “We will also
preserve our leading engineering and design capabilities and
intellectual property,” he said.  The company has struggled with larger-than-expected
maintenance costs on its Sevan Voyageur production and storage
vessel, which are expected to reach $190 million, compared with
an earlier $135 million forecast. The company reached an
agreement with bondholders in July to defer interest payments
until the end of September to negotiate a debt restructuring.  Tepco Faces ‘Zombie’ Future as Fukushima Damage Claims Mount  Tokyo Electric Power Co., which faces damages of at least
4.5 trillion yen ($59 billion) for the Fukushima nuclear
disaster, may be consigned to a future as a “zombie company”
requiring constant government funding.  The estimate is contained in a report from a panel
reviewing finances at the Japanese utility known as Tepco, the
Yomiuri newspaper said. The government is trying to avert the
bankruptcy of a company that supplies power to 29 million
customers as it pays for the worst nuclear disaster in 25 years.  “Significant financial resources for compensation can be
extracted if they liquidate Tepco,”  Yoshimi Watanabe , the head
of  Japan ’s opposition Your Party, said in an interview. “The
government isn’t doing this. It’s simply writing a check for the
compensation body, to be funded by higher electricity bills and
taxes. Tepco will ultimately be a zombie company.”  The term zombie company is a throwback to the 1990s when
the Japan’s asset bubble burst and large corporations avoided
bankruptcy by being kept alive with loans from banks that also
held their stock. Tepco, which has reported losses of 1.8
trillion yen, must also find funds to pay for decommissioning
and clean up costs after the March earthquake and tsunami caused
three reactor meltdowns at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  The oversight panel is due to present its report next week
to the Cabinet of Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda and the findings
will form the basis of a plan to be drafted by Tepco and the
Nuclear Damage Compensation Facilitation Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  