-- 
Alibaba’s Ma Says He’s ‘Very Interested’ in Buying Yahoo

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-10-01T01:03:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/alibaba-s-jack-ma-says-he-s-very-interested-in-buying-yahoo.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Chairman
Jack Ma said he’s “very interested” in buying Yahoo! Inc., the
U.S. Web portal that ousted its chief executive officer last
month amid stagnant growth and shrinking market share.  Ma said he’s had discussions with Yahoo, as well as other
potential buyers, without identifying them. The executive, whose
company is 40 percent owned by Yahoo, spoke at an event at
 Stanford University  near  Palo Alto ,  California .  “We are very interested in Yahoo because our Alibaba Group
is so important to Yahoo, and Yahoo is also very important to
us,” Ma said, when asked if he would buy the company. “There
are so many people who are interested in that, and we are also
talking to them.”  Yahoo executives said in a memo last week that their
advisers have fielded inquiries from “multiple parties”
interested in unspecified options. Ma’s existing relationship
with Yahoo may give him an advantage in putting a deal together,
said Brett Harris, an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York.  “It would make sense for Alibaba to be involved because
they own such a large stake,” said Harris, who recommends
buying Yahoo and doesn’t own the stock. “Yahoo investors at
this point are so disillusioned that they would welcome any
buyer.”  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo, declined to comment.  Stock Gains  Yahoo rose as much as 76 cents, or 5.8 percent, in late
trading. Before the remarks, the shares had fallen 25 cents to
$13.17 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock is down 21 percent
this year, giving the company a market value of $16.6 billion.  The company is reviewing strategy and seeking a new CEO
after ousting  Carol Bartz , who failed to reverse a growth
slowdown or repel competition from Google Inc. and Facebook Inc.
The process for reviewing strategic options is likely to take
“months, not weeks,” according to the memo, which was signed
by co-founders  Jerry Yang  and David Filo and Chairman Roy Bostock.  As of mid-September, private-equity investor  Silver Lake 
was considering a bid for Yahoo, people involved in the
deliberations said at the time. As part of a deal, Silver Lake
would sell off Yahoo’s Asian assets and then attempt to turn
around the main operations or find a buyer for that business,
the people said. Representatives from Silver Lake have
approached other companies to gauge interest in purchasing
Yahoo’s main business, one person said.  Asian Stakes  Yahoo’s Asian assets include stakes in  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) 
and Alibaba Group, which provides e-commerce services in China.  Ma said he’s interested in all of Yahoo and that
discussions are proving thornier than he initially expected.
Negotiations are hitting snags over “political issues,” rather
than financial ones, he said.  Ma is “pretty close friends” with Yahoo’s Yang, he said.
Even so, Ma said he hasn’t visited the company’s headquarters
during his current visit to the U.S.  When Yang was CEO in 2008, before Bartz was hired, Yahoo
spurned a $47.5 billion offer by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  The two
companies later struck an agreement to outsource Yahoo’s search
technology to Microsoft, diminishing the chance of a takeover.
Yahoo now has market value of $16.6 billion.  Alibaba reached an agreement in July with Yahoo, following
a four-month dispute initiated after Alibaba transferred Alipay
--  China ’s most popular online-payment service -- to a Chinese
company controlled by Ma. Under the accord, Alibaba will get at
least $2 billion in the case of an initial public offering or
“other liquidity event” at Alipay.  Ma’s role in the Alipay dispute may make it more difficult
for his company to acquire Yahoo, said  Laura Martin , an analyst
at Needham & Co. in  Los Angeles .  “Jack Ma has damaged his credibility in American capital
markets by his transfer of Alipay,” said Martin, who has a
“buy” rating on shares of Yahoo and doesn’t own the stock.
“With him, I’d get the cash at closing. You never know what
you’re going to end up with.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in  New York  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  