-- 
American-Born Al-Awlaki’s Death ‘Major Blow’ Against Al-Qaeda, Obama Says

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-09-30T16:41:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/american-born-al-awlaki-s-death-major-blow-against-al-qaeda-obama-says.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
death in Yemen of a U.S.-born Islamic cleric who masterminded
the attempted bombing of a Detroit-bound airplane in 2009 is a
“major blow” against al-Qaeda.  The killing of Anwar al-Awlaki“marks another significant
milestone in the broader effort to defeat al-Qaeda and its
affiliates,” Obama said at the start of a swearing-in ceremony
for the new chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Army General
Martin Dempsey. “This is further proof that al-Qaeda and its
affiliates will find no safe haven anywhere in the world.”  The military crowd at Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall
outside Washington in Arlington,  Virginia  applauded when the
president announced al-Awlaki’s death.  Obama credited the Yemeni citizens, government and security
forces for enabling al-Awlaki’s killing. Without offering
details of the intelligence leading to the strike, he said they
had “joined the international community in a common effort
against al-Qaeda.” Obama said that al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula remains “dangerous” even though it’s “weakened.”  Al-Awlaki was killed 8 kilometers (5 miles) from the town
of Khashef in the province of Jawf, the Yemeni foreign press
office said in an e-mailed statement today.  CIA Target List  Obama last year approved an order making him the first
American ever to be placed on the Central Intelligence Agency’s
hit list. Al-Awlaki, a 40-year-old native of  Las Cruces ,  New
Mexico , has dual U.S. and Yemeni citizenship.  Jameel Jaffer, deputy legal director of the  American Civil
Liberties Union , said in a statement that the U.S. targeted-
killing program that authorized airstrikes against al-Awlaki
“violates both U.S. and international law.”  “As we’ve seen today, this is a program under which
American citizens far from any battlefield can be executed by
their own government without judicial process, and on the basis
of standards and evidence that are kept secret not just from the
public but from the courts,” Jaffer said. It’s a mistake to
give any president “unreviewable power to kill any American
whom he deems to present a threat to the country,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Arlington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 