-- 
Manchester City May Sell Tevez for $31 Million, Mirror Says: Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-09-30T09:16:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/manchester-city-may-sell-tevez-for-31-million-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Tevez Price  Manchester City  may sell disgruntled striker  Carlos Tevez ,
who refused to play during a Champions League game this week,
for 20 million pounds ($31 million),  the Mirror said.   Inter Milan, Juventus and Paris St. Germain are interested
in bringing in the Argentina national team player, the newspaper
said. Juventus wants the player on loan starting in January,
while Inter already has a core of Argentinean players, the
newspaper said.  PSG, which was taken over by a Qatari investment fund this
year, is looking for players to add to Javier Pastore, which it
signed for 45 million pounds before the season’s start, the
newspaper said.  Kroenke’s Backing  Arsenal ’s majority shareholder,  Stan Kroenke , said he backs
 Arsene Wenger  to stay as coach for years, the Telegraph said.  Kroenke said that the manager would continue to be
responsible for decisions about signing and selling players, the
newspaper said.  The American said he’ll try to get the London club to
increase its revenue from sponsorships and other commercial
deals.  Kroenke bought the stakes of former board members Danny Fiszman and Nina Bracewell-Smith to take control of the team.
The Telegraph said that his company, Kroenke Sports Enterprises,
worked with Deutsche Bank to spread the payments over 5 years.  Khedira Chelsea-Bound?  Chelsea  may offer as much as 20 million pounds for Real
Madrid player Sami Khedira, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Khedira has only played twice for Real since the start of
the Spanish Liga. Real manager  Jose Mourinho  criticized the
German midfielder for getting himself sent off during a loss to
Levante earlier this month.  No Diouf, Kingson  Wigan  won’t be making a move for El-Hadji Diouf or its
former goalkeeper Richard Kingson, the  Independent  reported,
citing manager  Roberto Martinez .  Diouf, a free agent who was released by Blackburn at the
beginning of the season, has been training with Wigan. Kingson
is also training with Wigan after he left Blackpool.  Although the two players bring “a real air of
professionalism” to the club, Wigan won’t be making an offer
for either one of them, Martinez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 