-- 
Anil Ambani’s Reliance Communications Tumbles to Record on License Probe

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-09-30T12:13:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/anil-ambani-group-shares-fall-as-indian-investigators-widen-telecom-probe.html
Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , the
flagship company of Indian billionaire Anil Ambani, fell to a
record in Mumbai trading and led stocks of other group companies
lower after investigators widened a phone-license probe.  Reliance Communications declined 7.5 percent to 71.75
rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close of trading in Mumbai, the lowest
level since it began trading in 2006.  Reliance Capital Ltd. (RCAPT) 
dropped 12 percent to 315.15 rupees, while  Reliance
Infrastructure Ltd. (RELI)  lost 7.4 percent to 373.45 rupees, the
lowest in 8 years.  The  Central Bureau of Investigation  is examining if
Ambani’s Reliance Telecom Ltd. benefited from the sale of
mobile-phone permits to ineligible companies. The agency said in
court yesterday that it will extend the probe after three Ambani
group officials, who were arrested in April, retracted earlier
statements recorded during the case, according to K.K. Venugopal, a lawyer representing the CBI.  “This is going to continue until things get clearer --
until there are chargesheets and legal cases,” said K.K. Mital,
 fund manager  at Globe Capital Market Ltd. in  New Delhi . “The
markets are going to keep reacting.”  Investigators are probing the role of Reliance Telecom, a
Reliance Communications unit, in the transfer of Swan Telecom
Pvt. to Mauritius-based Delphi Investments Ltd., Venugopal said.  Reliance ADA Group Managing Director Gautam Doshi and
Senior Vice Presidents Hari Nair and Surendra Pipara were among
nine people charged in April and subsequently arrested by the
CBI in connection with the probe of a government sale of
wireless permits to ineligible companies.  Auditor’s Report  Reliance denied Venugopal’s comments.  There’s been no change in stance “by any of the Reliance
executives,” spokesman Daljeet Singh said in a statement today.
Neither Reliance Telecom nor Reliance ADA Group “are
beneficiaries of any telecom license issued in January 2008.”  The Comptroller and Auditor General of  India  said in a
report submitted to parliament on Nov. 16 that applications from
companies including Swan Telecom should have been rejected
because they were ineligible. Swan Telecom suppressed
information and submitted false documents in its license
application, the auditor said.  Department of Telecommunications rules stipulate that an
operator can’t own 10 percent or more in another operator that
provides services in the same telecom zone.  Reliance Telecom “held only 9.9 percent of the equity
share capital of Swan Telecom at the time of filing the relevant
license application in March 2007,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement Feb. 13.  “As per the provisions of the Companies Act 1956, the
preference share capital held by Reliance Telecom in Swan
Telecom is not to be included for purposes of determining
shareholding levels,” the company said.  Reliance Telecom is a wholly owned unit of Reliance
Communications, India’s second-largest mobile-phone carrier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  