-- 
Archie MacAllaster of Barron’s Investor Roundtable Is Dead of Cancer at 82

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-09-30T16:54:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/archie-macallaster-whom-peter-lynch-called-savvy-dies-at-82.html
Archie MacAllaster, chairman of New
York City investment firm MacAllaster Pitfield Mackay, who
shared his market observations as a longtime member of Barron’s
investor  roundtable , has died. He was 82.  He died Sept. 24 at St. Vincent’s Medical Center in
Bridgeport,  Connecticut . The cause was complications from  colon
cancer , according to his son, David, the firm’s president. A
resident of Fairfield, Connecticut, since 1962, MacAllaster was
actively managing the firm as recently as three weeks ago, his
son said today in an interview.  For many years, his firm was a market maker in banking and
insurance stocks.  Peter Lynch , in his book “Beating the
Street,” called MacAllaster “a savvy investor in the over-the-
counter market.”  MacAllaster began his career in the Montreal office of
Canadian investment company Pitfield, Mackay & Ross Ltd. After
two years, he was dispatched to run in its  New York  office. In
1984, he purchased the firm’s U.S. unit, which he reorganized
under the name MacAllaster Pitfield Mackay.  David MacAllaster said his father began sharing his
insights through Barron’s roundtables in the 1970s “because,
number one, he thought he had good ideas to share. But he also
got a lot of calls from people who wanted him to manage their
money” after reading his views. “He just enjoyed doing stock
picking.”  Lunch With Buffett  One of his best picks came in the late 1950s or early 1960s
for the Pilgrim Fund, which he was managing, and was prompted by
a lunch with Warren Buffett, his son recalled.  “He was so impressed with  Warren Buffett ’s intelligence,
the first thing he did when he came back to the office was
purchase 12,000 shares of Berkshire Hathaway for his fund,” a
stake that today would be worth more than $1.2 billion.  Within about one year, MacAllaster concluded that running a
mutual fund and a brokerage created conflicts, and he turned
over control of the Pilgrim Fund, his son said -- “and the
first thing the new manager did was sell the 12,000 shares of
Berkshire Hathaway.”  MacAllaster viewed himself as particularly knowledgeable
about the  insurance industry , and at the start of 2011 he
advised investors to be buying.  ‘Place to Be’  “As a group, the life-insurance business is a great place
to be,” he  told Barron’s  in January. “You could buy almost all
of them. The old, senior, the well-vested companies, they should
be bought. They’re cheap.”  Three months ago, as part of the Barron’s midyear 2011
market assessment, MacAllaster  said  he saw “lots and lots of
bargains, long-term,” in financial stocks. “The problem is,
define long-term,” he added.  “The Obama administration is anti-business,” he said.
“The president is good on his feet. He speaks well. He has a
sense of humor. But he is anti-business because he never grew up
with business. Also, the two parties don’t get along, which
makes things difficult for business. In this environment it is
hard to know what stocks will do.”  Archie Freeman MacAllaster II was born on Oct. 16, 1928, in
Watertown, New York. He attended  Dartmouth College  in  New
Hampshire  and  St. Lawrence University  in Canton, New York,
before graduating from the U.S. Naval Academy. He served four
years in the Navy.  MacAllaster was a trustee emeritus at St. Lawrence. The
university president’s residence was renamed MacAllaster House
in 1999, in recognition of his financial support for its
renovation.  In addition to son David, survivors include his wife,
Barbara Torrey MacAllaster; a daughter, Sara; and a
granddaughter, Alexandra. Another son, Archie III, known as
Sandy, died in 1979.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  