-- 
Asia Stocks Gain in Week on Speculation Europe Will Fix Crisis

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-09-30T23:36:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/asia-stocks-gain-on-speculation-europe-will-fix-its-sovereign-debt-crisis.html
Asian stocks rose this week, paring
the biggest quarterly slump in three years, on speculation
 Europe ’s leaders may succeed in preventing the region’s credit
crisis from spilling into a global recession.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest lender by market value,
gained 2.4 percent in  Hong Kong  in the week, after reports the
 European Central Bank  may restart covered-bond purchases and
take more monetary-easing measures. Canon Inc., a camera maker
that depends on Europe for about a third of its sales, surged
5.8 percent in Tokyo.  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , a global
surfwear maker, jumped 11 percent in Sydney, while  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, added 1.4 percent.  “There’s no doubt the markets are very oversold,” said
 Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP
Capital Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under
management. “There’s good potential for a bounce and it then
becomes about what follow-through reaction we see from Europe.
The real issue is whether it’s a durable bounce or whether it’s
a dead-cat bounce.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1.2 percent in the five
days through Sept. 30, the measure’s first weekly advance in
four. Still, the index tumbled 16.2 percent in the quarter, the
biggest drop since 2008, as concern mounted that Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis combined with a slowdown in the  U.S.
economy  may drag the world back into recession.  Euro Region  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI) , which fell 0.4 percent this
week, completed its worst quarterly loss in a decade, slumping
21 percent.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average climbed 1.6 percent
in the week, South Korea’s Kospi Index gained 4.3 percent and
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 2.7 percent.  HSBC ended the week at HK$60.90 in Hong Kong after a euro-
region central bank official said the ECB may talk about
resuming some bonds purchases from banks when it meets on Oct. 6.
Standard Chartered Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest lender by
market value, gained 2.7 percent to HK$158.90, while Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc., Japan’s second-largest bank by
market value, advanced 5.6 percent to 2,206 yen in Tokyo.  The ECB may also consider re-offering 12-month loans to
banks at its policy meeting next week, according to the official.
Interest-rate cuts are likely to be discussed, though they are
not on the agenda, the official said. A spokesman for the
Frankfurt-based ECB declined to comment.  Exporters to Europe also advanced in the week. Canon rose
5.8 percent to 3,550 yen in Tokyo. Nissan Motor Co., a carmaker
that gets about 15 percent of sales from Europe, increased 7.8
percent to 693 yen.  Sony Corp. (6758) , the maker of Bravia televisions
and PlayStation game consoles, climbed 1.6 percent to 1,507 yen.  Billabong, BHP  Billabong jumped to A$3.32 in Sydney, while in Hong Kong,
 Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothier that counts Europe as its
biggest market, jumped 16 percent to HK$9.55.  BHP Billiton  rose 1.4 percent to A$35.02 in Sydney.  Cnooc
Ltd. (883) ,  China ’s biggest offshore oil producer, gained 9.8 percent
to HK$13.  “Policy makers have been pushed to act because Europe’s
situation has gotten so bad,” said Koichi Kurose, chief
economist in Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd. “That’s given stocks a
little lift, but if real progress isn’t made, we could see
markets go right back down again.”  Concerns the global economy may be sliding into recession
drove the Asia-Pacific gauge down more than 20 percent from its
May 2 peak earlier in the week, a decline defined as a “bear
market” by some investors. Similar concerns resurfaced toward
the end of the week after U.S. economic reports failed to ease
speculation that growth in the world’s largest economy is
faltering.  Stocks in the Asian benchmark are currently valued at about
11.5 times estimated earnings, compared with 11.4 times for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 9.5 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  