-- 
AT&T Asks Court to Dismiss Sprint, Cellular South Lawsuits

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-10-01T04:02:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/at-t-asks-judge-to-throw-out-sprint-lawsuit-seeking-to-block-t-mobile-deal.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  urged a court to dismiss
Sprint Nextel Corp. and Cellular South Inc. lawsuits alleging
its proposed purchase of wireless carrier T-Mobile USA Inc.
would be anticompetitive, saying the deal would actually boost
competition.  AT&T asked a federal judge in  Washington  yesterday to throw
out the suits, claiming Sprint, the third-biggest U.S. wireless
operator, and Cellular South, the ninth-largest wireless carrier
by customers, failed to show the deal would hurt competition or
impair access to networks needed to serve their customers.  “Sprint knows that competition will be enhanced, not
harmed, by the combination of AT&T and T-Mobile and that a post-
merger AT&T -- freed of spectrum shortages that impair its
ability to offer customers better services at lower prices --
will be a more formidable competitor,” AT&T said in its filing
in the Sprint case. “What is good for consumers is bad for
Sprint, and that is why Sprint has filed suit.”  AT&T said in a filing in the Cellular South case that the
competitive concerns raised by the Ridgeland, Mississippi-based
company weren’t legitimate. AT&T offered as evidence a March 21
e-mail from Hu Meena, Cellular South’s president and chief
executive officer, proposing an agreement between the two
companies on issues such as spectrum and roaming access.  ‘Fears’ Competition  “Cellular South suggested that it would not oppose the
merger if AT&T would agree not to engage in facilities-based
competition in Mississippi,” AT&T said in its filing. “This
inappropriate proposal confirms that what Cellular South fears
is competition, not lack of competition.”  Sprint brought its antitrust lawsuit on Sept. 6, less than
a week after the U.S. sued to block the deal, saying the
proposed merger would harm consumers and weaken Sprint’s ability
to compete with AT&T and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   Cellular South sued on Sept. 19 claiming the merger
“threatens to substantially lessen competition” and cause it
significant losses and damages. Cellular South changed its name
to C Spire Wireless on Sept. 26, according to its website.  The  Justice Department  sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, arguing a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition. Seven states and  Puerto Rico  joined the
government’s case.  ‘Distort’ Record  “AT&T’s accusations flatly distort the record,” said Eric
Graham, vice president of strategic & government relations for C
Spire Wireless. “In the days surrounding the announcement of
AT&T’s takeover of T-Mobile, AT&T approached us in an effort to
gain our support. Mr. Meena raised the same issues that we have
articulated for years.  “In typical fashion, AT&T declined to address those issues
and we moved on,” Graham said in an e-mailed statement. Meena
never suggested that AT&T not compete in  Mississippi  or anywhere
else, he said.  Vonya B. McCann, senior vice president of government
affairs for  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint, said in an e-
mailed statement that AT&T’s motion was without merit.  AT&T said Sprint’s argument that the transaction will limit
its access to services including roaming and so-called backhaul,
or the networks used to move calls and data between cell towers
that communicate with mobile phones, is flawed.  “Implausible and Speculative’  “Sprint does not purchase roaming services from either
AT&T or T-Mobile -- its network is technologically
incompatible,” AT&T said in yesterday’s filing. “The
transaction will therefore have no impact on Sprint’s ability to
obtain roaming prices.” Sprint’s claim that the transaction
will induce Verizon to raise its rates for roaming is
“implausible and speculative,” AT&T said.  AT&T also said that Sprint fails to back up its allegations
that the transaction will eliminate T-Mobile as an important
purchaser of backhaul, or special access services, which are
primarily provided by AT&T and Verizon.  “The immediate impact of any supposed reduction in demand
for special access as a result of the merger would be to reduce
the prices that Sprint pays for special access, not to increase
them,” AT&T said in the filing. “That reduction in prices
would benefit Sprint and would not constitute antitrust
injury.”  Sprint’s case is  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-
01600, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).
Cellular South’s case is Cellular South Inc. v. AT&T Inc., 11-
cv-01690, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington). The government’s case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-
01560, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 