-- 
AT&T Cites Cellular South Overture in Bid to Dismiss Lawsuit

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-30T18:59:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/at-t-asks-judge-to-throw-out-cellular-south-antitrust-lawsuit.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  asked a federal judge to
throw out a lawsuit Cellular South Inc. brought in a bid to
block the company’s proposed $39 billion purchase of wireless
carrier T-Mobile USA Inc.  AT&T Inc., in a filing today in federal court in
 Washington , said the competitive concerns raised by Cellular
South in the suit weren’t legitimate. AT&T offered as evidence a
a March 21 e-mail from Hu Meena, Cellular South’s president and
chief executive officer, proposing an agreement between the two
companies on issues such as spectrum and roaming access.  “Cellular South suggested that it would not oppose the
merger if AT&T would agree not to engage in facilities-based
competition in  Mississippi ,” AT&T said in its filing. “This
inappropriate proposal confirms that what Cellular South fears
is competition, not lack of competition.”  In its Sept. 19 lawsuit, Cellular South, the ninth-largest
wireless carrier by customers, claimed the merger “threatens to
substantially lessen competition” and cause it significant
losses and damages.  A spokesman for Cellular South, Jim Richmond, said the
company would have a statement on the allegations in the suit
later today. The company announced on Sept. 26 it’s named was
changed to C Spire Wireless.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition. Seven states and  Puerto Rico  have joined the
government’s case seeking to stop the $39 billion deal.  The case is Cellular South Inc. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01690,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington). The
government’s case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 