-- 
Latvia May Win Credit Rating Upgrade in Near Future, Vilks Says

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-09-30T07:53:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/latvia-may-win-credit-rating-upgrade-in-near-future-vilks-says.html
Latvia  will probably win a credit
rating upgrade because of deficit-cutting and the outcome of
parliamentary elections, said Finance Minister Andris Vilks.  “Latvia in the near future will get a credit rating
upgrade,” said Vilks, on the Latvian Independent Television
program  900 Seconds  today. “The election results show that
Latvia will continue its path.”  Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis’s Unity and former
President Valdis Zatlers’s Reform Party together took 42 of the
legislature’s 100 seats, more than any other party in a Sept. 17
election. The two parties are considering a coalition with
Harmony Center, which has 31 seats, or the  National Alliance ,
which has 14.  Fitch Ratings, Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor’s  have positive outlooks on Latvia’s credit rating. Moody’s
and Fitch rate its debt at the lowest investment grade, and S&P
rate Latvia one level below investment grade.  The Baltic country plans to cut its  budget deficit  to 2.5
percent next year to adopt the euro two years later. Vilks
initially estimated the size of budget measures needed would be
between 100 million lati ($190.4 million) and 110 million lati.  “I can’t say a specific sum, that will be known in the
next few weeks,” Vilks said today.  International Loan  The final sum will have to be worked out with the European
Commission and the  International Monetary Fund , which led a
group that loaned 7.5 billion euros ($10.1 billion) to the
Baltic country after its second-biggest bank needed a state
rescue.  The measures will be mostly expenditure cuts, possibly more
than two-thirds of the total, with the rest coming from the gray
untaxed economy, Vilks said.  President Andris Berzins yesterday gave the parties one
week to come together and form a coalition. Vilks said he
probably won’t return as finance minister under a different
prime minister.  “I really doubt that I would want to work for another
prime minister” other than Dombrovskis, he said. “I don’t see
a better prime minister candidate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  