-- 
Tax-Exempt Securities Show Longest Winning Streak Since 2002: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-09-30T14:43:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/tax-exempt-securities-show-longest-winning-streak-since-2002-muni-credit.html
States and cities slashing
borrowing to cut costs are driving the $2.9 trillion municipal-
 bond market  to its sixth-straight month of positive total
returns, the longest winning streak since 2002.  This year’s municipal sales totaled $165 billion as of
Sept. 23, down about 40 percent from the period in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At the same time, U.S.
Treasuries have rallied, pushing down tax-exempt rates. Yields
on top-rated municipals due in 10 years have fallen by 1.20
percentage points from the start of 2011.  While issuers including  California  and New York responded
to declining interest rates by boosting total sales to $67
billion from July through this month, the biggest quarter since
December, they’re unlikely to exceed last year’s record of $408
billion, when states and cities took advantage of the taxable
Build America Bond program and its 35 percent federal subsidy on
interest costs. The program ended Dec. 31.  “There’s been a light supply and strong demand,” Neil Klein, who manages $925 million at New York-based Carret Asset
Management, said in an interview. “Numerous months in a row of
positive returns are driven by that supply-and-demand dynamic.”  States and localities reduced borrowing earlier this year
as they cut government payrolls and reduced spending to balance
budgets. About three out of five municipalities in 2011 delayed
or canceled capital infrastructure projects, according to a
September survey from the  National League of Cities .  “They have these projects that they intended to issue
bonds for and they’re looking at them and reprioritizing,”  John Bonnell , who manages $3.5 billion of municipal assets at USAA
Investment Management Co., said in a telephone interview from
 San Antonio .  Defaults Decline  Municipal defaults have dropped this year to about $1.1
billion, a quarter of last year’s total, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  Meredith Whitney , the banking analyst who
correctly predicted Citigroup Inc.’s dividend cut in 2008, told
the CBS “60 Minutes” show in December that the next 12 months
would see “hundreds of billions of dollars” of defaults.  Municipals have had “quite a run” this year because the
“dire predictions” failed to materialize, Bonnell said.  “Having been beaten up in the fourth quarter, we were
starting at a pretty low place,” Bonnell said. “So we had
plenty of room to come up from there.”  Tax-exempt securities are on pace to gain 1.3 percent this
month, following five consecutive months of positive returns,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index that tracks
prices and interest income. The last half-year stint was nine
years ago.  Returns Outperform  Municipals are set to gain about 4 percent in the quarter
ending Sept. 30, below Treasury gains of about 6 percent for the
same period, the index shows. Tax-exempt bonds underperformed
compared with federal debt because municipal rates did not fall
as fast as Treasury yields, Klein said.  “Munis didn’t necessarily follow suit,” he said. “Yields
didn’t go down as much, so they wouldn’t have kept pace from a
performance perspective.”  Even so, tax-exempt bonds are outperforming Treasuries this
year. Municipals returned 8.9 percent as of Sept. 29, compared
with the 8.6 percent gain for Treasuries.  On a relative basis munis are still cheaper than Treasuries
because U.S. government yields have fallen faster. The ratio of
30-year tax-exempt rates to those of 30-year Treasuries was 115
percent yesterday, after reaching a 2011 high of 126 percent on
Sept. 22, according to Bloomberg data.  “If you look at municipal yields compared to the other
fixed-income alternatives, we still look very, very cheap,”
Bonnell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  