-- 
Bank of America’s Countrywide Sued by Sealink Funding

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-09-30T21:20:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/bank-of-america-s-countrywide-sued-by-sealink-over-mortgage-securities.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Countrywide
unit was sued by Sealink Funding Ltd. in New York over $1.6
billion of residential mortgage-backed securities the fund
purchased between 2005 and 2007.  Sealink filed the suit against Countrywide in New York
State Supreme Court yesterday, seeking unspecified compensatory,
rescissory and punitive damages. Sealink is a fund created to
manage Landesbank Sachsen AG’s riskiest assets after the German
lender almost collapsed.  “Countrywide was an entity driven by only one purpose --to
originate and securitize as many  mortgage loans  as possible
into” mortgage-backed securities “to generate profits for the
Countrywide defendants, without regard to the investors that
relied on the critical, false information provided to them with
respect to the related certificates,” lawyers for Sealink said
in the lawsuit.  Sealink filed a similar suit yesterday in the same court
against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  over $2.4 billion worth of
residential mortgage-backed securities purchased between 2005
and 2007.  “This appears to be another sophisticated investor looking
for someone to blame for investment losses suffered due to a
downturn in the economy,” Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for
Bank of America, said in an e-mail. “We will vigorously defend
this lawsuit.”  Credit Crunch  SachsenLB, a state-owned lender, received a 17.3 billion-
euro ($23.2 billion) bailout in 2007 to support an investment
vehicle that ran out of funding amid the credit crunch. Saxony
agreed a week later to sell the bank to Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg to avoid closure. As part of the agreement, the
state guaranteed to cover as much as 2.75 billion euros in
possible losses from investments backed by assets including U.S.
subprime mortgages that were placed in Sealink.  In separate lawsuits filed yesterday in  New York  state
court, JPMorgan Chase and Barclays Capital Inc. were also sued
by investors, accused of misrepresenting the quality of the
loans underlying their securities.  Barclays was sued over the sale of $123 million in
mortgage-backed securities to HSH Nordbank AG, a German lender.
JPMorgan was sued by LBBW, which purchased more than $500
million worth of mortgage bonds, according to the complaint.
Lawyers for HSH Nordbank said in the suit that the bank’s
current damages are at least $40 million.  Kristin Friel, a Barclays spokeswoman, declined to comment.
 Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on the lawsuits, saying the company hadn’t
seen the complaints.  “Defendants routinely ignored the pervasive defects that
their due diligence identified in the loans they had purchased
for securitization,” LBBW said. “Defendants deliberately
concealed these defects from plaintiffs and other investors in
order to increase their own profits.”  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Faulty mortgages and foreclosure abuses have cost the
nation’s five biggest home lenders at least $65.7 billion,
according to a tally by Bloomberg News, and new claims may push
the industrywide total to twice that amount.  The cases are Sealink Funding Ltd. vs. Countrywide
Financial Corp., 652679/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County ( Manhattan ); Sealink Funding Ltd. vs. Bear Stearns &
Co. Inc., 652681/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County, Manhattan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 