-- 
Turkish Warning Lights Still on as Economy Slows, Basci Says

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-09-30T10:10:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/basci-says-soft-landing-not-complete-seat-belt-lights-still-on.html
Turkey ’s “seat-belt warning lights
are still on” as the economy makes a soft landing from high
rates of growth, central bank Governor Erdem Basci said.  There has been a “healthy slowdown” in credit growth
rates thanks to measures by the central bank and the banking
regulator, Basci told executives in Edirne, western Turkey, in
televised remarks. Still, the landing isn’t complete and the
bank is watching  Europe , “hopeful” that authorities there will
be able to resolve their sovereign debt problems, he said.  Turkish gross domestic product expanded 1.3 percent in the
second quarter from three months earlier, defying Basci’s
predictions of a quarter of no growth. Annual growth for the
period was 8.8 percent. Industrial output figures now point to a
decline in both domestic and external demand, he said today.  “The net impact of our policy is one of tightening,”
Basci said, saying that limits on lending and money supply
cancel out a benchmark  interest rate  that is “supportive of the
economy.”  The central bank cut its benchmark one-week repo rate by
half a percentage point to 5.75 percent last month, saying
easier conditions are needed to cushion the economy against a
likely slowdown in Europe, Turkey’s biggest export market.  GDP may grow 7.5 percent this year, the  International
Monetary Fund  said on Sept. 22 following a visit to Turkey. The
Washington-based lender forecast 2.5 percent expansion in 2012.  Standard & Poors is tracking the economy’s “resilience”
against the likely slowdown before it upgrades its rating for
Turkish long-term foreign-currency debt, analyst  Frank Gill  said
in an interview on Sept. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  