-- 
Bayer, J&J’s Xarelto Helped Acute Coronary Syndrome Patients

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-09-30T07:16:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/bayer-j-j-s-xarelto-helped-acute-coronary-syndrome-patients.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
blood thinner Xarelto helped patients who recently suffered a
heart attack or severe chest pain, succeeding in an area in
which a competitor from  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) 
failed last year.  Xarelto reduced the rate of heart attacks, strokes and
cardiovascular death versus placebo, Leverkusen, Germany-based
Bayer said in a statement late yesterday. The study, known as
Atlas, combined either Xarelto or a placebo pill with standard
blood-thinning therapy. Patients who took Xarelto faced a higher
risk of major bleeding, a feared side effect of blood thinners,
Bayer said.  The results are a “surprise win” for Bayer and J&J, and
may “modestly” help them compete with Bristol-Myers and
Pfizer’s Eliquis,  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Brilinta and  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY) ’s Effient, Seamus Fernandez, a New York-based analyst for
Leerink Swann & Co., wrote in a note to investors today.  Bayer and J&J are awaiting a ruling from US regulators on
whether Xarelto, known chemically as rivaroxaban, may be sold
for a bigger group of patients with an irregular heartbeat known
as atrial fibrillation. A Food and Drug Administration advisory
panel voted 9-2 in support of the drug this month. The findings
announced yesterday may broaden Xarelto’s availability in
hospitals, which would make the drug a stronger competitor for
atrial fibrillation patients as well, Ferdandez said.  Extrapolations to Xarelto’s benefit for atrial fibrillation
patients may be difficult, however, because Bayer used a
different dose of the drug for those patients,  Mark Schoenebaum ,
a New York-based analyst for ISI Group, wrote in a note to
clients today.  Pfizer and Bristol-Myers halted a trial of Eliquis, also
known as apixaban, in November after an increase in bleeding
outweighed benefits for patients with acute coronary syndrome.  Bayer said it will ask regulators to approve Xarelto for
acute coronary syndrome patients by the end of the year. The
company said it will present full results of the Atlas trial at
a medical conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  