-- 
BC Partners May Seek to Raise More Than 6 Billion Euros for LBOs

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-09-30T12:22:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/bc-partners-may-seek-to-raise-more-than-6-billion-euros-for-lbos.html
BC Partners  Ltd., the owner of
Fitness First gyms, may seek more than 6 billion euros ($8.1
billion) for its leveraged buyout fund after almost reaching its
initial target, three people with knowledge of the plan said.  The firm told its investors yesterday it will probably meet
its original target of 6 billion euros next week, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. BC Partners may then seek as much as 500 million euros
more, bringing it to the fund’s so-called hard cap, the maximum
amount the firm told its investors it would seek, they said.  BC Partners was among the first European leveraged buyout
firms to return to investors, or limited partners, for money
since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. in September
2008. Investors have less money to commit to new funds following
the financial crisis and are becoming more selective about which
funds they back, according to Armando D’Amico, head of Acanthus,
a firm that helps firms raise funds.  “The context for fundraising is very difficult,” D’Amico
said at the Capital Creation conference in  Monte Carlo  this
week. “But some funds are doing very well.”  London-based BC has since been followed by EQT Partners AB,
Apax Partners LLP, Cinven Ltd. and Permira Advisers LLP, which
started raising funds for  Europe  this year.  Investors say they’re planning to reduce pledges to the
largest of the new pools and invest in fewer of them, partly
because they haven’t received enough money back from previous
funds to match commitments during the boom years. Almost 90
percent of limited partners won’t commit to some of their
existing fund managers, in part because they don’t have the
capital available, a June survey by investment firm Coller
Capital Ltd. showed.  Officials at BC Partners declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  