-- 
Buffett Says Berkshire Made $4 Billion of Stock Investments During Quarter

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-09-30T16:57:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/berkshire-bought-4-billion-in-common-stock-during-third-quarter.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  added about $4 billion in common stock to its investments
during the third quarter, taking advantage of undervalued
equities as stock markets slid.  The net change, described by Buffett today in a Bloomberg
Television interview, compares with $3.4 billion in the second
quarter. That was the most since Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
plowed a net $3.6 billion into stocks during the third quarter
of 2008, the height of the global credit crisis.  “We’re ready to buy lots of things,” Buffett, 81, said in
the interview with Betty Liu on the floor of the New York Stock
Exchange. Berkshire’s program to purchase its own stock,
announced earlier this week, “won’t keep us from investing
billions and billions and billions in plants and equipment, in
new acquisitions.”  Berkshire, which had a $67.6 billion equity portfolio as of
June 30, is focusing on stocks after its cash hoard swelled and
 interest rates  remained near record lows. Equities markets
around the world fell during the third quarter amid speculation
that  Europe  will fail to contain its sovereign debt crisis and
that the  U.S. economy  will weaken.  Earnings from Berkshire’s businesses have grown to about $1
billion a month, and finding uses for that cash has become more
difficult, Buffett said in April. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index dropped 12 percent from the end of June through yesterday,
heading for the worst quarterly performance since the last three
months of 2008, while the Stoxx 600 Europe Index tumbled 16
percent.  Buying When ‘Cheap’  Buffett, the company’s chairman and chief executive
officer, excluded the firm’s $5 billion purchase of  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ’s preferred stock from his $4 billion estimate for
common-stock investments. The deal with the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based lender pays $300 million in annual dividends and
gave Berkshire warrants to purchase 700 million shares of common
stock for $7.14 each.  Berkshire, which has shunned buybacks for four decades,
said Sept. 26 that it will repurchase shares for as much as 110
percent of their book value because the stock is undervalued.
The firm has since started procuring them.  Its Class A shares had slipped below $100,000 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading on Sept. 22 for the first time
since January 2009. They traded at $108,400 as of 11:43 a.m.
today.  “If the stock is cheap, we will buy it,” Buffett said. “If
it isn’t cheap, we won’t buy it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  