-- 
Black-White Kids Surge in South Where Mixed Unions Once Banned

-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 
2011-09-30T04:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/black-white-kids-surge-in-south-where-mixed-unions-once-banned.html
The ranks of multiracial Americans
grew fastest in the states that most recently had laws on the
books outlawing interracial marriage, the U.S. Census Bureau
said yesterday.  Nine of the 10 states where the percentage of  multiracial 
white Americans climbed the most were in the South, where
interracial marriages were banned before a 1967 U.S. Supreme
Court decision declared a  Virginia  prohibition unconstitutional.  Multiracial Americans who are partially white increased by
at least 8 percent in every state in the nation from 2000 to
2010. The number of people who described themselves as  white 
multiracial Americans climbed 112 percent in  South Carolina , 111
percent in  North Carolina , 93 percent in  Georgia , and 81 percent
in  Mississippi , the bureau reported.  “A person’s approach to the census form is as much about
how others see them as it is about how they see themselves,”
said  Zandria Robinson , a sociology and Southern studies
professor at the University of Mississippi in Oxford. “Over the
decade, there’s been an increasing acceptance of multiracial
people.”  The largest percentage of multiracial Americans are white
and black, the Census Bureau said. Americans who described
themselves as a combination of white and black races made up
almost a quarter of the nation’s 9 million multiracial
residents. Multiracial Americans make up 2.9 percent of the
population, up from 2.4 percent in 2000, the first time
Americans were allowed to describe themselves to the government
as members of more than one race.  Black and White  A separate analysis by  William Frey , a senior fellow at the
 Brookings Institution  in Washington who has studied census data
for more than three decades, looked at just those who considered
themselves white and black. He found that number also grew
fastest in South Carolina, increasing to 27,432 from 7,890, or
247.7 percent. Nationwide, the number of multiracial Americans
who were a combination of white and black rose to 1.8 million,
more than doubling from the 2000 tally of 784,764, Frey
reported, calling it “a historic change.”  The increase in the white multiracial population was in
contrast to the region’s white, non-Hispanic population, which
grew 4 percent, less than half the nation’s 9.7 percent rate
over the decade.  Public Acceptance  The growth in individuals identifying themselves as
multiracial indicates the change in public acceptance since the
1967 Supreme Court decision.  All 11 states in the Deep South, plus  Oklahoma ,  Delaware ,
 Kentucky ,  Missouri  and West Virginia had anti-miscegenation laws
overturned by the ruling. The case was sparked by a white man
and black woman who married in 1958 in the  District of Columbia ,
then attempted to live in Virginia. Their sentence was suspended
by a judge on the condition that Richard and Mildred Loving
leave the state for 25 years. The couple moved to Washington,
then sued.  “Almighty God created the races, white, black, yellow,
Malay, and red and placed them on separate continents, and but
for the interference with his arrangement there would be no
cause for such marriages,” the judge wrote.  Heidi Durrow, 42, a writer who used her interracial
background as the inspiration for her bestselling book, “The
Girl Who Fell to Earth,” said in a telephone interview that
today more people know multiracial Americans.  ‘I Was Nervous’  Durrow said her first book tour stop in 2010 was scheduled
in Chester,  Vermont , for an annual program focusing on newly
published writers. More than 94 percent of Vermont residents and
98 percent of Chester’s 1,005 residents are non-Hispanic whites.  “I was nervous to begin with, and then I got up there on
the stage,” she said. “My first thought was, oh my God,
they’re all white people! They’re never going to get it!”  Durrow said after the reading, a half-dozen people talked
to her about their own multiracial experience, including some
with multiracial grandchildren or children who had married
Hispanics.  “It was a profound moment,” she said. “I thought they
were all white. They weren’t. People feel like they’re part of
the discussion. There are more people who are now connected to
the mixed race experience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Bass in  Washington  at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan in Washington 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net . 