-- 
Blavatnik Made $1.2 Billion in Lyondell LBO, Lawsuit Says

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-09-30T19:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/blavatnik-made-1-2-billion-in-lyondell-buyout-creditors-lawsuit-says.html
The leveraged buyout of Lyondell
Chemical Co. in 2007 benefited the company’s board as well as
billionaire  Len Blavatnik , who gained $1.2 billion, according to
a revised lawsuit brought by the company’s creditors.  Lyondell Chairman Dan F. Smith netted more than
$100 million from the $22 billion merger with a unit of
Blavatnik’s Access Industries Holdings LLC, a deal that drove
Lyondell into bankruptcy in 2009, according to the complaint
filed in yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  “Blavatnik was internally known at Access as the ‘King of
Optionality,’” and turned to Lyondell after previously trying
to buy Huntsman International LLC, a similar petrochemical
company, trustee  Edward Weisfelner  said in the revised
complaint, brought on behalf of creditors.  Blavatnik and Access took part in a private-equity boom
during which companies were bought with borrowed money, then
drained of cash or sold for a profit, according to the lawsuit.
With  interest rates  low, lending standards loosened and tighter
regulations on public companies following the Enron Corp. and
WorldCom Inc. accounting frauds, investors and their bankers
turned to companies with little debt and stable cash for highly
leveraged acquisitions, and Blavatnik chose Lyondell, the
trustee said.  ‘Refreshed’ Projections  Blavatnik profited from stock bought just before the
merger, and earnings projections were “refreshed” by Smith to
make them high enough to justify the acquisition price of $48 a
share, according to the lawsuit.  Richard Werder, a lawyer for Blavatnik, said the claim that
his client netted more than $1.2 billion from Lyondell’s merger
with Access’s Basell AF SCA unit is “preposterous.”  “It ignores the fact that he contributed his equity in
Basell -- worth billions of dollars by anyone’s reckoning -- to
the merged company and lost that value entirely when LBI filed
for bankruptcy,” Werder said in a statement.  Creditors initially sued over the buyout during Houston-
based Lyondell’s bankruptcy and settled with defendants
including Merrill Lynch & Co. and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
recovering about $450 million for the estate.  Blavatnik is seeking to dismiss some accusations made in
the initial complaint, and has said Luxembourg law can’t be used
to sue over Netherlands-based Basell. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Robert Gerber denied a request to dismiss charges based
on Luxembourg law, saying Sept. 22 that Blavatnik could later
file a motion to dismiss an amended complaint.  Transfers Sought  Creditors seek $300 million transferred by Lyondell to
Access within 90 days before its bankruptcy and other payments
to Blavatnik-controlled entities. The trustee claims that under
Luxembourg law, Blavatnik and others, including his brother Alex
Blavatnik, are personally liable for 100 million euros ($134
million) that Basell distributed to shareholders just before the
merger was completed.  In March 2007, Merrill advised Access to buy Lyondell by
first gaining a “toe-hold” position in its stock of as much as
14.9 percent, according to the complaint. Blavatnik then formed
a new company, AI Chemical, to buy the shares at $32.11 each.
the stock jumped 11 percent in May 2007, when he reported the
purchase in a regulatory filing and said he might buy all
Lyondell’s shares in a merger, the trustee said.  At about the same time, Smith rejected a proposal from
Apollo Management LP for a management-led buyout, creditors
said.  ‘Interest Bill’  “If you do a leveraged buyout stand-alone and you try to
finance this with the valuation you’ve got in earnings, there
will come a year in the very near future that you won’t be able
to pay the interest bill,” Smith said, according to the
complaint.  Smith also said that bondholders might not be “enriched”
by a leveraged buyout, because chemical markets could slow at
the same time that the company took on more debt through the
acquisition, the complaint said.  On June 7, 2007, Basell Chief Executive Officer Volker Trautz met with Smith at a private dinner in  London  at
Blavatnik’s request, according to the complaint. Smith suggested
a price of $48 a share for Lyondell if Blavatnik wanted to buy
it, creditors alleged.  ‘Inflated, Unreasonable’  “The ‘refreshed’ projections had changed so dramatically
from the 2007 Long Range Plan, that the Lyondell Board knew or
should have known that that the ‘refreshed’ numbers were
inflated, unreasonable, and unachievable,” the trustee said in
the complaint.  Blavatnik had fought a motion to unseal documents belonging
to Access that were used in the revised complaint, saying that
the trustee sought to “harass” him.  “With trial only months away, his goal is to litigate this
case in the press rather than before this court,” Blavatnik
said in court papers filed in July.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lyondell Chemical Co., 09-
10023, and the adversary case is Official Committee of Unsecured
Creditors v.  Citibank NA , 09-01375,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 