-- 
BOE May Reactivate Bond Program, Say a Third of Analysts Polled

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-09-30T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/boe-may-reactivate-bond-program-say-a-third-of-analysts-polled.html
The  Bank of England  may reactivate
its bond-purchase program next week, according to almost a third
of economists in a Bloomberg poll, joining central banks from
Brazil to Israel that are loosening policy to aid growth.  Nine out of 29 economists forecast the central bank will
increase its bond plan on Oct. 6. That’s the highest proportion
in the survey since November 2009, when it last expanded the
program. The rest say the bank will hold the program at 200
billion pounds ($313 billion).  Signs of a swing at the Bank of England emerged in August,
as policy makers moved toward arguments Adam Posen has made
since October for more so-called quantitative easing. As the
 Federal Reserve  shifted its bond holdings to prevent another
recession and Brazil, Switzerland and Israel cut interest rates,
inflation at more than double the U.K. bank’s target prompted
the majority of its officials to hold fire.  “Recent indicators suggest that the economic outlook
continues to deteriorate rapidly,” said  Michael Saunders , chief
European economist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “With the
Monetary Policy Committee having prepared the ground for QE in
recent weeks, we doubt they will delay further.”  All 53 economists in a separate survey see no change in the
Bank of England’s key interest rate, which is at a record low of
0.5 percent.  The  European Central Bank , which also meets next week, may
consider policy measures such as reintroducing 12-month loans to
banks as it fights the euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis. As
with the Bank of  England , above-target inflation is complicating
its task. In the U.K., consumer-price growth was 4.5 percent in
August, compared with the 2 percent goal.  Policy Shift  The pound has fallen about 5.5 percent against the dollar
since Aug. 17, when minutes of the Bank of England’s meeting
that month showed officials discussed the need for more
stimulus. The report also showed  Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale 
abandoned a push for higher rates to tame prices.  The debate on reviving asset purchases intensified in
September, with most of the nine-member MPC saying it’s
“increasingly probable” more stimulus will be needed to
salvage the recovery, minutes of the Sept. 8 decision showed.  A report on Oct. 5 may confirm that the U.K. economy
expanded just 0.2 percent in the second quarter after stagnating
over the previous two quarters. The data will include initial
estimates of exports, company investment and spending by
consumers and the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  