-- 
Rajaratnam, Boeing, Madoff, Rye, HSBC, BofA in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-09-30T12:24:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/boeing-madoff-hsbc-fortescue-total-bofa-in-court-news.html
Federal prosecutors asked a judge
to unseal medical information that Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge
fund manager convicted of directing a massive insider trading
ring, is using to argue for a reduced sentence.  The public has a constitutional right to view the documents
because Rajaratnam is using them to support his argument for
leniency, prosecutors told U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell
yesterday in a court filing in Manhattan.  “While individuals have a right to medical privacy,
Rajaratnam waived such rights, at least in part, by arguing that
his medical conditions justify departing or varying from the
sentencing guidelines,” prosecutors said in the filing. “The
public has a First Amendment right to see the arguments and
declarations that both parties submitted to this court about the
impact of his medical condition on sentencing.”  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May on all 14 criminal
counts against him. Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million by
trading with inside information in 11 stocks, including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , ATI Technologies
Inc. and  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   Prosecutors have asked Holwell to give Rajaratnam, the co-
founder of Galleon Group LLC, from 19 1/2 to 24 1/2 years in
prison. Rajaratnam’s lawyers, calling the government’s proposal
“grotesquely severe,” asked Holwell for a sentence
“substantially below” that. Rajaratnam is scheduled to be
sentenced Oct. 13.  Terence Lynam, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, declined to comment
on his client’s medical condition or on the government’s court
filing. Rajaratnam hasn’t disclosed the nature of any illnesses
he is using to argue for a lower sentence.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  New Suits  Boeing Plant Workers Arrested in Prescription-Drug Scheme  U.S. prosecutors charged 37 people with operating an
illegal prescription-drug ring at a  Boeing Co. (BA)  plant in Ridley
Park, Pennsylvania, where the Chinook military helicopter is
manufactured.  All but one of the people worked at the plant, which also
makes the V-22 Osprey, and no quality or safety problems were
found in aircraft being built there, Philadelphia U.S. Attorney
Zane Memeger said at a news conference yesterday. Chicago-based
Boeing reported the suspected activity to federal authorities
four years ago, he said.  “This investigation and prosecution focused not only on
the sellers but also on the users because of the critical role
that these employees play in manufacturing military aircraft,”
Memeger said.  Federal Bureau of Investigation and Drug Enforcement
Administration agents raided the plant yesterday, arresting 27
people, Memeger said. Nine others were arrested elsewhere, he
said. Memeger wouldn’t comment on the 37th person’s whereabouts.  Twenty-three people face individual indictments for
distributing drugs including Actiq, Oxycontin and Xanax.
Fourteen others who weren’t indicted face misdemeanor charges of
possession. said. Memeger wouldn’t comment on the 37th person’s
whereabouts.  Boeing said yesterday that it monitored the employees, who
worked in production areas, beginning in August 2007 as part of
the federal investigation. Of those arrested, 33 were current
employees, said Damien Mills, a Boeing spokesman. More than
6,000 people work at the plant, he said.  “We took appropriate steps to ensure the safety of our
employees and the absolute integrity and quality of the products
we produce for our customers,” Mills said in a phone interview.  He declined to give details on how Boeing monitored the
employees. The company is still conducting an internal probe,
Mills said.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Madoff Trustee Doubles Loss Estimate From Rakoff Mets Ruling  The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s bankrupt firm more than
doubled his estimate of how much investors may lose if he can’t
overturn a judge’s ruling that dismissed much of his $1 billion
claim against the owners of the New York Mets.  Trustee Irving Picard said yesterday that the ruling cut
his potential recovery from clawback suits by at least $2.7
billion, and placed the recovery of another $3.5 billion “in
question,” according to a statement from his spokeswoman,
Amanda Remus.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff this week cut to about $386
million the $1 billion demanded by Picard from the Major League
Baseball team owners, Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, saying the
trustee could only try to take back two years of withdrawals
from the Ponzi scheme, instead of six.  A lawyer for Picard said Sept 28 that the two-year rule
would cost the trustee “about” $3 billion on all clawback
suits. Another aspect of Rakoff’s ruling relating to so-called
preference payments jeopardized another $3.5 billion of
recoveries, according to yesterday’s statement.  Picard will ask Rakoff to approve an appeal of his ruling
to the federal appeals court in New York. The appeals court will
then decide whether to review the ruling. Picard, who got a
favorable ruling from the appeals court on his formula for
compensating investors who lost money, may lose this time.  “I’m not sure Judge Rakoff will give Picard permission to
appeal,” said Jonathan Landers of Milberg LLP, which represents
investors in more than 25 so-called clawback lawsuits brought by
Picard, including some awaiting Rakoff’s attention. “If he
does, I expect him to be affirmed by the appeals court.”  An appeal could cause the Madoff firm’s liquidation to
“grind to a halt for a year or longer,” Landers said.  The trustee said yesterday his first payments to investors
totaling $272 million will be delayed because of Rakoff’s
ruling. The checks were due to be issued by Sept. 30, almost
three years after the Ponzi scheme collapsed. He didn’t say how
long the delay would last.  Rakoff set a trial date of March 19 for the trustee’s case
against the Mets owners, after quizzing both sides Sept. 28 on
their plans to bring in expert witnesses. He said he was
“skeptical” about the trustee’s desire to bring in an expert
on investors’ fiduciary duties. Picard based his claims for the
$1 billion on allegations the Mets owners failed in their duty
to probe Madoff’s fraud amid so-called red flags that warned of
irregularities.  The case is: Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Toyota Wins Dismissal of Speed-Up Case Set for First Trial  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  won dismissal of the first sudden-
acceleration lawsuit set for trial in  California  in 2013 because
a federal judge determined it should have been filed in state
court in Utah.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled at least 8
million U.S. vehicles starting in 2009, after claims of defects
and incidents involving sudden unintended acceleration. The
recalls set off hundreds of economic-loss suits and claims of
injuries and deaths. The first test case was set for trial in
February 2013.  U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in Santa Ana,
California, yesterday dismissed that first bellwether case,
brought by the families of two people killed in a crash in Utah
in 2010, finding a federal warranty claim in the lawsuit failed
to meet a required $50,000 threshold for damages. The plaintiffs
couldn’t count potential personal injury or punitive damages to
reach this requirement, under federal law, Selna said.  “Plaintiffs are unable to reach the jurisdictional
threshold of $50,000 in damages,” Selna said. “The case is
dismissed for lack of jurisdiction.”  The ruling won’t keep the case from being tried or from
remaining in federal court, Mark Robinson, an attorney for the
plaintiffs, said in a phone interview. The warranty claim,
brought under the federal Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, was aimed
at the dealer and isn’t essential to the lawsuit against Toyota,
Robinson said.  “I am drafting a new complaint right now in which the
dealer will not be named as a defendant and everything will be
cured and the suit will go forward seeking punitive damages and
everything else,” he said.  “We are pleased this jurisdictional issue has been
resolved and that the court agrees with Toyota that the proper
forum for this case is Utah state court,”  Celeste Migliore , a
Toyota spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The Utah lawsuit is Van Alfen v. Toyota Motor Sales USA
Inc., 2:11-cv-04143, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Santa Ana). The cases are combined as In re Toyota
Motor Corp. Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices
and Products Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  Rye Portfolio Seeks to Move Madoff Suit, Cites Mets Case  Rye Select Broad Market XL Portfolio Ltd., sued by the
liquidator of Bernard Madoff’s firm, asked a federal district
judge to take the case out of  U.S. bankruptcy court , citing a
ruling on the trustee’s $1 billion lawsuit against the owners of
the New York Mets.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff this week cut to about $386
million the amount at stake in trustee Irving Picard’s case
against the Major League Baseball team owners, Fred Wilpon and
Saul Katz. Cayman Islands-based Rye said its case was a similar
one involving Madoff customers’ securities transactions, and
that the district court sided with the defendants saying such
settlement payments were protected by so-called safe harbor law.  Rye is a defendant in a larger lawsuit involving transfers
of funds allegedly originating at the Madoff money management
firm, via swap transactions, according to Picard’s lawsuit.
Picard seeks the return of $400 million from Rye.  David Sheehan , a lawyer for Picard, told reporters after a
court hearing Sept. 28 that Rakoff’s ruling would cut the amount
of money the trustee could recover for investors who lost money
in the Ponzi scheme.  The bankruptcy court case is Picard v. ABN Amro Bank
(Ireland), 10-ap-05355, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  HSBC Wins Priority Over Other Banks in U.K. Algosaibi Case  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  won priority for repayment over  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA and five other banks in a U.K. lawsuit seeking at
least $250 million from Saudi Arabia’s Algosaibi family and
their company, which defaulted in 2009.  Priority for repayment from Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi &
Brothers Co. relates to five apartments allegedly owned by the
family and is contingent on HSBC’s so-called charging orders
against the company being finalized, judge Julian Flaux ruled in
the  High Court  in  London . A trial over the apartments in
London’s Mayfair neighborhood is set for Nov. 28.  “HSBC will have priority over the opposing banks in the
event that the charging orders are made final,” Flaux said in
yesterday’s judgment. HSBC was first to apply for an interest in
the apartments after the bank’s legal advisers discovered the
properties by examining Algosaibi documents, Flaux said.  Algosaibi, with interests including construction, beverage-
bottling and finance, admitted liability in the matter in June
and hasn’t said how or when it will repay the banks in the case
or dozens of other lenders seeking repayment. The case includes
HSBC’s $85 million claim, British Arab Commercial Bank Ltd.’s
$19 million claim, Arab Banking Corp.’s claims totaling $140
million and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s $6 million claim.  The case is part of a global dispute between Algosaibi and
one of Saudi Arabia’s richest men, Maan al-Sanea, who married
into the Algosaibi family and founded the  Saad Group , which has
businesses ranging from construction to health care. Units of
Saad and Algosaibi defaulted after borrowing about $15.7 billion
from more than 80 banks.  The other banks in yesterday’s case argued that if they
weren’t given an equal share of the apartments with HSBC, they
may not recover anything from Algosaibi because of the
difficulty of enforcing rulings in Saudi Arabia and “the
unlikelihood of assets being available elsewhere,” according to
the judgment.  For more, click here.  Strauss-Kahn, French Accuser Face Off Before Paris Police  Dominique Strauss-Kahn and the French woman who accused him
of attempted rape met yesterday at a Paris police station for
face-to-face questioning on the allegations.  The two left the station in Paris’s 13th arrondissement
separately after a 2 1/2-hour “confrontation,” as the meeting
is called, according to images broadcast on LCI television.  Writer Tristane Banon told TF1 television after the meeting
she “maintained my accusation” against Strauss-Kahn when they
met and sought to “know what his arguments were” for denying
wrongdoing. Strauss-Kahn didn’t comment before or after the
meeting.  Banon claims Strauss-Kahn tried to rape her in 2003 when
she visited him for an interview, filing her complaint in July
as another attempted-rape case against the 62-year-old was
unraveling in New York. Strauss-Kahn resigned his post as head
of the  International Monetary Fund  in May to fight claims by a
Manhattan hotel maid. That case was dropped in August after
prosecutors said the maid’s story was unreliable. Strauss-Kahn
returned to Paris earlier this month.  “I’m scared” to come face to face with Strauss-Kahn,
Banon said on Sept. 24 at a Paris rally calling for stricter
punishment of violence against women. “I want no money” from
him, she said, and should any damages ultimately be awarded to
her, she promised to give the money to charity.  Paris prosecutors opened a preliminary inquiry into Banon’s
claims to determine whether there is sufficient evidence to open
a full investigation. Police have questioned about 20 people
with whom Banon spoke or who had heard about the 2003 meeting,
including her mother and Strauss-Kahn’s ex-wife and daughter.
Yesterday’s meeting should be the final step before prosecutors
decide whether to close the case or continue, Agence France-
Presse reported.  Strauss-Kahn called Banon’s account “imaginary” in a
Sept. 18 television interview and said their 2003 meeting
“didn’t involve any aggression, any violence.”  Strauss-Kahn’s lawyer Frederique Baulieu, Banon’s lawyer
David Koubbi and a spokeswoman for the prosecutor’s office
didn’t respond to requests for comment. The two met
unaccompanied by their lawyers, AFP said.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials  Fortescue Wins Court Hearing in Bid to Fight Director Ban  Andrew Forrest , founder of  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , won
a hearing before Australia’s highest court in his bid to fight a
regulator-sought ban on holding director posts at publicly
traded companies.  The High Court of Australia yesterday granted Forrest’s
request for the hearing, Fortescue said in a statement to the
Australian stock exchange. A date for the hearing of the appeal
hasn’t been set yet.  The Australian Securities and Investment Commission alleged
that Forrest and Fortescue, the country’s third-biggest exporter
of iron ore, misled and deceived investors with a description of
contracts with three Chinese companies. Forrest had breached his
duties as a director, according to the regulator.  The commission will defend the appeal, Acting Chairman
Belinda Gibson said in a notice on its  website .  “This case raises important issues which form the bedrock
of confidence in the integrity of our markets, including
misleading and deceptive conduct, continuous disclosure and
directors’ duties,” Gibson said.  Federal Court Justice John Gilmour cleared Forrest and
Fortescue on Dec. 23, 2009, after a trial in Perth, saying their
opinions were honestly and reasonably held. An appeal panel
 overturned  the decision on Feb. 18 this year, ruling the
conclusion was erroneous and referred the case back to the trial
judge for determination of a penalty.  In 2004, Fortescue said in letters to the stock exchange
and media releases that the Perth-based company had binding
agreements with China Metallurgical Construction Group Corp.,
China Harbour Engineering Co. and China Railway Engineering
Corp. to build an iron ore mine, a port at Port Hedland in
Western Australia and a railway, according to court records.  Fortescue shares rose in Sydney trading following the
announcements to 50.5 Australian cents on March 23, 2005, from
5.9 cents on Aug. 23, 2004, the records show.  The stock slumped after the Australian Financial Review
reported in March 2005 that the agreements didn’t impose any
legally binding obligations on the Chinese contractors,
according to the appeals court judgment. Fortescue fell 25
percent to 37.7 cents on March 24, 2005.  The appeal case is Australian Securities and Investments
Commission v. Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. WAD23/2010. Federal
Court of Australia - Full Court (Perth)  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Total Wins, Arkema Loses Court Bid on Chemical Cartel Fine  Total SA (FP) ’s Elf Aquitaine unit won a bid at the European
Union’s top court to overturn its share of antitrust fines
levied against it together with former Total subsidiary  Arkema
SA (AKE)  for fixing prices of a chemical used in detergents.  The European Commission “had not given sufficiently
reasoned answers to several of the arguments put forward by Elf
Aquitaine in order to establish that Arkema determined its
conduct on the market independently,” the  EU Court of Justice 
ruled yesterday. The Luxembourg-based court rejected a separate
appeal by Arkema against its part of the fine.  The companies had challenged the way in which the
commission calculated part of the 216.9 million-euro ($296
million) penalty against manufacturers, including  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) 
and  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN) ’s Hoechst unit, for rigging prices of
monochloroacetic acid. The case is the first in which a
commission fine was challenged over the failure to show the
parent company knew about antitrust violations.  In its 2005 decision, the Brussels-based commission fined
Total’s Atofina unit 58.5 million euros, including a joint 45
million-euro penalty for Arkema and Total’s Elf Aquitaine, based
in Courbevoie, France. Arkema was spun off from Total in 2006.  “We’re very satisfied with this decision,” Total
spokeswoman Sandra Dante said by telephone. “We now have to
analyze the ruling before we can make any further comments.”  Sybille Chaix, a spokeswoman for Arkema, didn’t immediately
return a call and e-mail seeking comment.  Companies fined in the cartel, including Akzo, lost
challenges in 2009 at the  EU General Court , the region’s second-
highest court. Only Hoechst won a reduction of about 10 percent
to its fine, cutting it to 66.6 million euros from 74.03 million
euros.  The commission said in 2005 the companies conspired for 15
years to control more than 90 percent of the European market
worth as much as 125 million euros annually. Monochloroacetic
acid is also used to make adhesives and drugs and to thicken
cosmetics.  The cases are: C-520/09 P, Arkema v. Commission; C-521/09
P, Elf Aquitaine v. Commission.  Bank of America Agrees to Reduce Lehman Claims, Return Funds  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  agreed to reduce its derivative
claims against  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  entities by $4.5
billion and return about $356 million to Lehman to settle
disputes over derivatives obligations.  Under two accords, Bank of America will drop its appeal of
a judge’s order to return $501 million in deposits it took from
Lehman in 2008 during the financial crisis and the bank’s
Merrill Lynch International unit will reduce its derivative
claims by about $3 billion, according to documents filed Sept.
28 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  Bank of America and Merrill will support Lehman’s
liquidation plan under the settlements. Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America’s acquisition of Merrill Lynch &
Co. was completed in January 2009.  The transactions at issue include interest-rate swaps,
credit derivatives on mortgage-backed bonds and foreign exchange
options, according to the documents. Bank of America will have a
$402 million non-subordinated general unsecured claim against
Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc. in connection with pre-
bankruptcy transactions and Merrill Lynch entities will have a
similar claim in the amount of $1.1 billion, according to the
filings.  Bank of America was ordered last year to return $501.8
million in deposits to Lehman, after a judge found that the bank
took deposits unrelated to its loans to Lehman during the
financial crisis and must return them. The bank appealed the
order in May.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 