-- 
BP’s $7 Billion Argentina Pan American Sale to Cnooc Said to Risk Collapse

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-09-30T20:25:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/bp-s-7-1-billion-sale-of-argentina-unit-to-cnooc-said-at-risk-of-collapse.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s $7.1 billion deal to sell
Argentine crude producer Pan American Energy LLC is at risk of
collapse, jeopardizing  China ’s biggest energy acquisition this
year, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  BP’s agreement to sell its 60 percent stake to partner
Bridas Corp., a company owned by Chinese oil producer  Cnooc Ltd. (883) 
and  Argentina ’s billionaire Bulgheroni family, has hit
opposition from politicians and may not be completed when the
accord expires in November, the person said, declining to be
identified as the details are private.  The London-based company is prepared to let the deal lapse
and continue as a partner in the oil production venture, he
said. Still, no final decision has been made and the transaction
could yet be completed.  BP fell 0.8 percent to 388.5 pence in London trading
yesterday.  “Deals of this scale take time to finalize with
competition authorities,” London-based BP spokesman  Robert Wine 
said in an e-mail. “We are working with the other shareholders
in PAE to secure competition approvals and complete the deal. We
can confirm the deal has not yet closed as Argentine competition
approvals remain outstanding, but we remain optimistic that
these approvals will be granted in due course.”  An official at Pan American, which speaks on behalf of
Bridas, said he couldn’t comment on shareholder issues.  “We’re still waiting for the Argentine government and
regulatory approvals,” Jiang Yongzhi, Beijing-based spokesman
for Cnooc, said in an e-mail. “We will keep the market well
informed of the progress.”  Spill Disposals  BP has agreed to more than $25 billion in asset sales since
pledging to divest up to $30 billion of fields after the  Gulf of
Mexico  spill last year to shore up its balance sheet. The
company had about $20 billion in cash at the end of the second
quarter. It has turned a profit in every period since the record
$17 billion loss in the second quarter of 2010, bolstered by a
40 percent gain in Brent crude prices.  Chinese oil producers including Cnooc and China
Petrochemical Corp. are buying assets in  Latin America  to feed
surging demand as other producers sell stakes to help fund the
development costs. Last year, Sinopec Group, as China
Petrochemical is known, paid $7.11 billion for 40 percent of
 Repsol YPF SA (REP) ’s Brazilian unit.  Bridas agreed in November to buy from BP the 60 percent in
 Pan American  it doesn’t already own. The deal, which was due to
complete by June 30, was put on hold until after Argentina votes
in a presidential election next month, Yang Hua, chief executive
officer of Beijing-based Cnooc, said Aug. 24.  Horacio Mizrahi, the spokesman for the Argentine Planning
Ministry, which oversees the  energy industry , could not be
reached on his mobile phone and did not return a message seeking
comment left at his office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  