-- 
Brazil’s Smaller Budget Surplus Complicates Inflation Fight

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-09-30T17:45:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/brazil-s-budget-deficit-at-17-1-billion-reais-in-august.html
Brazil’s  budget surplus  before
interest payments narrowed in August to its lowest in nine
months, making it harder for the central bank, which is relying
on tighter fiscal policy, to hit its inflation targets.  The primary surplus, which includes federal and local
governments as well as state companies, fell to 4.6 billion
reais ($2.5 billion) from 13.8 billion reais in July, the
central bank said in a statement distributed today in Brasilia.
The figure was lower than the median estimate of 5.1 billion
reais from 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Central bank president Alexandre Tombini has said the
government needs to “hold the line” on fiscal policy to help
curb the fastest inflation in six years. The central bank’s 2012
inflation forecasts are based on “optimistic” assumptions
about the budget, which will mean faster inflation if they fall
short, said Flavio Serrano, senior economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank in  Sao Paulo .  Higher pension payments tied to a planned 14 percent
increase in the minimum wage next year, along with spending on
the 2014  World Cup  and the 2016  Olympic Games , and  tax revenue 
hit by slower growth, make it unlikely that the government will
hit its primary budget surplus target next year, Serrano said,
speaking by phone from Sao Paulo.  ‘Sound Performance’  “We are reaching our primary surplus target this year, but
based on very sound performance of tax collection,” Serrano
said. “It’s hard to believe that they will deliver a strong
fiscal performance next year.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s 2012 budget proposal, presented
to congress last month, targets a budget surplus before interest
payments of 139.8 billion reais for the federal, state and local
governments, the equivalent of 3.1 percent of gross domestic
product.  Every 0.5 percentage points that the government falls short
of its fiscal target adds 0.2 percentage points to inflation,
Serrano said.  Enestor Dos Santos, senior Brazil economist for BBVA in
 Madrid , said in an e-mailed report that he expects a 2.7 percent
primary surplus next year, short of the 3.1 percent target.  After interest payments, the budget deficit widened in
August to its highest level in 17 months, as faster inflation
and five straight interest rate increases in the year through
July triggered higher payments on the country’s debt.  The deficit of 17.1 billion reais was the highest since
March 2010, and up from 10.7 billion in August last year.  Deficit Forecast  The central bank cut its forecast for the 2011 budget
deficit to 2.4 percent of gross domestic product, from an
earlier forecast of 2.5 percent, Tulio Maciel, head of the
bank’s economic research department, told reporters in Brasilia.  Brazil ’s net debt will end the year at 38.5 percent of GDP,
from an earlier forecast of 39 percent, Maciel said. The net
debt to GDP ratio will fall to 37.6 percent in September, from
39.2 percent in August, partly helped by a weaker real, which
increases the value of Brazil’s dollar assets in local currency,
Maciel added.  Tombini raised Brazil’s benchmark interest rate five times
this year before cutting it a half point to 12 percent on Aug.
31 even as annual inflation through mid-September ran at 7.33
percent, the fastest in six years. The central bank has
repeatedly pledged to slow inflation to the 4.5 midpoint of its
target by the end of next year. Brazil targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Budget Deficit  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013 fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point,
to 10.40 percent at 12.59 p.m. New York time. The real declined
1.1 percent to 1.8600 per dollar.  The federal government may receive less money from oil
exploration as Congress redefines its rules for distributing
royalties. The federal government will reduce its income from
oil royalties and a tax on highly productive fields by 1.8
billion reais to help reach an accord on how to share the
royalties with non-producing states, O Estado de S. Paulo
reported on Sept. 28, without saying where it got the
information.  Brazil’s economic growth slowed last quarter to 3.2 percent
from a year earlier, down from 4.2 percent in the first quarter
and 7.5 percent last year, the fastest pace in two decades.  Even as the global slowdown hits Brazil’s industrial
sector, which shrank in July from a year earlier, the country’s
job market hasn’t weakened and rising incomes may keep
bolstering tax collection. Brazil’s unemployment rate was
unchanged in August at 6 percent, a record low for the month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 