-- 
Brazil to Keep Tax on Foreigners’ Bond Buys, Augustin Says

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-09-30T20:32:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/brazil-to-keep-tax-on-foreigners-bond-buys-augustin-says-1-.html
Brazil  plans to maintain a tax on
foreigners’ purchases of fixed income assets that was introduced
to try to curb currency gains, Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin
said.  The real extended losses after Augustin’s remarks, and
after President  Dilma Rousseff  said Brazil has created
conditions that will allow it to cut interest rates cautiously.  “It’s fine as it is,” Augustin said in an interview in
Brasilia. “Foreign participation in our internal debt remains
high. With the world in crisis, that’s not a small thing.
There’s no capital flight.”  Today’s remarks by Augustin and Rousseff led traders to
pare bets that the government may start to roll back measures
designed to weaken the real, Amos Sanches, a currency trader at
Sao Paulo-based Gradual Corretora de Titulos e Valores
Mobiliarios Ltda, said in a telephone interview. In October, the
government tripled to 6 percent the so-called IOF tax, as one of
a series of measures to curb a rally in the real, which the
government said was harming Brazilian industry.  The real has fallen 18 percent against the dollar since the
end of July, the most among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after the South African rand, as a European debt
crisis and the threat of a U.S. recession led investors to dump
emerging market assets.  The real weakened 2.2 percent to 1.8815 per  U.S. dollar  at
3.46 p.m. New York time.  Buying Dollars  As well as increasing the IOF tax, Brazil introduced
restrictions on foreign currency loans, limited short dollar
positions and bought dollars in the spot and forward markets to
try to limit the real’s appreciation.  The central bank surprised economists last month by cutting
its benchmark interest rate half a point to 12 percent, citing
the deterioration in the global outlook. The cut followed five
straight rate increases this year. Inflation accelerated to 7.33
percent in the year through mid-September, its fastest pace in
six years. The central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus 2 percentage points.  “We are opening a space so that the central bank facing
the world crisis, including the threat of deflation and
depression in some advanced economies, can start a cautious
cycle of responsible reductions in interest rates,” Rousseff
said at an event in  Sao Paulo .  Augustin said that Brazil plans to sell more bonds abroad
this year even if it has to pay a higher yield than in previous
auctions.  Bond Sale  The Treasury hasn’t decided yet if it will offer dollar or
real-denominated bonds in its next foreign auction, Augustin
said. Brazil’s last foreign bond auction was on July 7, when it
sold $550 million of its dollar bonds maturing in 2021 to yield
4.188 percent.  “The crisis hasn’t undermined the quality of Brazil’s
economic fundamentals. There are days the market is more
nervous, but Brazil’s fundamentals are stronger,” Augustin
said. “We continue to work with the idea of a new offer this
year, but the currency hasn’t been decided yet.”  The yield on the  interest rate  futures contract maturing in
January 2012 fell 8 basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to
11.100 percent at 3.35 p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  