-- 
Brazil’s Real Posts Biggest Quarterly Drop Since December 2008

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-09-30T21:36:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/brazil-s-real-weakens-toward-biggest-quarterly-drop-since-2008.html
Brazil ’s real fell, adding to the
biggest quarterly slide since 2008, as mounting concern that the
global economic recovery is in peril and prospects for lower
domestic interest rates damped the allure of the nation’s fixed-
income assets.  The real weakened 2.1 percent to 1.8794 per dollar at 5
p.m. New York time, from 1.8403 yesterday. The currency lost 17
percent since the end of June, the second biggest decline among
25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the
Polish zloty. Yields on Brazilian interest-rate futures
contracts maturing in January 2013 declined 14 basis points, or
0.14 percentage point, to 10.33 percent today. That brings the
fall this quarter to 236 basis points.  Global stocks and commodities slumped today after reports
showed U.S. consumer spending slowed, Chinese manufacturing
contracted for a third straight month and German retail sales
declined the most in more than four years. Brazil can’t let pass
the opportunity afforded by the global financial crisis to lower
 interest rates , President  Dilma Rousseff  said today in her
strongest call yet for the central bank to continue cutting
borrowing costs.  “Brazil has been adversely affected by risk sentiment
driven by the threat of the global slowdown,” said Kathryn Rooney Vera, an emerging markets analyst at Bulltick Capital
Markets in Miami. “Brazil’s real has been punished even more
because of the internal policy risk. You have a central bank
losing credibility with their monetary policy not consistent
with inflation.”  Policy makers cut the benchmark interest rate a half
percentage point on Aug. 31 to 12 percent even as annual
inflation rose to a six-year high. The central bank predicts the
annual inflation rate will fall next year from 7.33 percent in
mid-September as global growth slows amid the European debt
crisis and U.S. economic slump, according to a report it
released yesterday.  ‘Ammunition’ for Rate Cut  Rousseff, at an event in  Sao Paulo , said it is
“inadmissible” for policy makers not to take into account the
possibility of a recession and even a depression in the global
economy. Government efforts to contain spending are creating
space for the central bank to begin a “cautious” and
“responsible” cycle of rate cuts, she said.  Brazil has “all the ammunition” it needs to lower its
benchmark interest rate, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said at
the same event. If the global financial crisis deepens, Brazil
would prefer to use monetary policy instead of fiscal stimulus
to boost economic growth, he said.  The real needs to fall a further 10 percent to 15 percent
against the dollar in order to be a more “interesting”
investment,  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, said in an interview in  London  today.  G20 Measures  The central bank’s decision to cut the benchmark interest
rate last month was “quite smart,” and the Group of 20 nations
may agree to take coordinated measures to cut interest rates at
their November meeting, O’Neill said.  Brazil’s budget surplus before interest payments narrowed
in August to its lowest in nine months, the central bank said in
a statement distributed today in Brasilia.  The primary surplus, which includes federal and local
governments as well as state companies, fell to 4.6 billion
reais ($2.4 billion) from 13.8 billion reais in July. The figure
was lower than the median estimate of 5.2 billion reais from 12
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  