-- 
Buffett Says Tax Rich Money Shufflers to Relieve Families

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-09-30T20:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/buffett-says-tax-rich-money-shufflers-to-ease-families-burden.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire who
partnered this year with President  Barack Obama  to push for tax
increases on the wealthy, urged policymakers to target gains
made by speculators with short-term investment horizons.  “If you give me a choice between taking $1,000 from 20
million families or hitting 50,000 people who shuffle money
around all day, I’ll take it from the people who shuffle
money,” Buffett told Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu today in
an interview from the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.  Buffett, 81, built a fortune of more than $35 billion by
picking stocks and making takeovers as chief executive officer
of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  His buy-and-hold investment approach
made Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire the biggest shareholder in
companies including Coca-Cola Co., American Express Co. and
Washington Post Co.  “Somebody that buys a stock-index future and sells it 10
seconds later and gets 60 percent by long-term gains -- he would
have a different world to live in,” Buffett said of his push
for changes to the  tax code .  Buffett advised Obama on his 2008 election campaign and is
scheduled to attend a fundraiser in New York today to benefit
the president’s re-election bid. Obama, in an effort to reduce
the U.S. deficit, asked Congress to enact a so-called Buffett
rule, requiring those earning annual incomes of $1 million or
more to pay taxes at a rate similar to that of middle-income
Americans.  Investors Back Obama  Raising taxes on about 50,000 “ultra-rich” individuals
who pay low taxes may add as much as $20 billion to government
revenue each year and help reduce the deficit, Buffett said.  Republicans including Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin 
have called Obama’s approach “class warfare” and said raising
taxes may stifle the economic recovery.  Global investors overwhelmingly back Obama’s proposed tax
increase for the wealthy to cut the deficit, according to a
Bloomberg Global Poll. By a margin of 63 percent to 32 percent,
respondents in the quarterly survey of 1,031 investors, analysts
and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers supported the call for
the rich to pay more. In the U.S., support for the idea was
lower, with more than half opposing it, although four in 10
supported it.  “The economy will not be hurt at all by taxing those who
pay very low rates a higher rate,” Buffett said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Dan Kraut at
   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  