-- 
Buffett Says Europe’s Banks Shouldn’t Ask Berkshire for Capital Injections

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-09-30T16:18:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/buffett-says-europe-s-banks-shouldn-t-look-to-berkshire-for-help.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s  Warren Buffett , who has sold most of the company’s holdings in European
sovereign debt, said his firm isn’t interested in helping to
bail out lenders on the continent.  “They need capital in their banks, in many of their
banks,” Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive
officer, told Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu today on the
floor of the New York Stock Exchange. “We would not be a good
prospect,” he said, adding that Berkshire has received “very,
very few” calls about putting capital into European banks.
“Not quite none at all,” he said, declining to name any firms.  Berkshire sold most of its European sovereign holdings
about a year and a half ago, the billionaire said today on CNBC.
A German reinsurance unit still holds some bonds from that
nation, and Berkshire is “fine” with the investment, he said.
As for the  U.S. economy ,  Europe ’s debt crisis is bound to have
some fallout, he said. Still, the impact on the U.S. will be
nothing like the 2008 credit crisis, Buffett said on CNN, and
the domestic economy is still growing, he told interviewers.  European and U.S. stock markets have sagged on concern that
 Greece  may default on its debts, setting off a chain reaction
that could engulf other nations and their banks. Berkshire has
made bullish derivative bets on global equity markets including
contracts tied to the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, and Buffett has
traveled to Europe in search of acquisitions.  Bank of America  Buffett, 81, said in July that Berkshire sold European
sovereign holdings a year earlier and called the continent’s
problems surmountable. His Omaha, Nebraska-based company has
built the biggest equity stake in  Germany ’s  Munich Re , the
world’s No. 1 reinsurer.  Berkshire did come to the aid of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the
largest U.S. lender, with a $5 billion purchase of preferred
stock and warrants announced in August. While losses tied to
faulty lending will take much longer to clean up, “the bank has
a wonderful underlying business” and eventually will be a
money-maker, Buffett said on Bloomberg TV.  “The bet is, is Brian going to get rid of those
problems?” Buffett said, referring to Bank of America Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51. “It won’t take six
months or a year; it will take much longer than that even. But
the underlying business is doing fine.”  Time for Moynihan  Moynihan deserves time to turn the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based company around, according to the billionaire, who
said he’d never spoken to Moynihan before last month. “I don’t
want him to step down,” Buffett said. “Brian, stay at work.”  The U.S. hasn’t slid into a “double-dip” recession and
that the economy doesn’t require stimulus from policy makers,
Buffett said. Berkshire owns more than 70 businesses spanning
insurance and energy to  consumer goods  and building supplies.  “We have a recovery going,” said Buffett, who has led
Berkshire for more than four decades. “I don’t think that
fiscal stimulus or monetary policy from this point forth will do
a lot, to be perfectly honest. I do think that the natural
regenerative juices of capitalism will do, and are doing,
plenty.”  Berkshire will be buying back its own shares because
they’re undervalued, Buffett said. That doesn’t preclude
purchasing shares of other firms or entire companies, including
big ones, said Buffett, who told shareholders in his annual
letter that his “elephant gun” is loaded.  Ready for Elephants  “If an elephant comes along, we’re ready,” he said today.
The buyback program “won’t keep us from investing billions and
billions and billions in plants and equipment, in new
acquisitions. We just announced an acquisition yesterday,
Princeton Insurance for $400 million. We’re ready to buy lots of
things.”  Buffett said Berkshire will have the funds to “spend a lot
of money” repurchasing shares if the price is right. Since
June, when Berkshire’s cash hoard totaled $47.9 billion, the
company has spent about $4 billion on stocks, $5 billion on
preferred equity in Bank of America and $9 billion on the
takeover of Lubrizol Corp.  “We’ll keep creating capital all the time,” Buffett said
of Berkshire’s ability to fund repurchases. “If the stock is
cheap we will buy it in. If it isn’t cheap we won’t buy it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  