-- 
Buffett Says Bank of America’s Problems to Take ‘Much Longer’ to Clean Up

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-09-30T17:42:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/buffett-says-bank-of-america-s-problems-to-take-much-longer-to-clean-up.html
Warren Buffett , whose  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  invested $5 billion in  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , said
that problems at the biggest U.S. lender by assets will take
“much longer” to clean up.  “The bank has a wonderful underlying business -- it’s got
lots of problems,” Buffett, 81, told Bloomberg Television’s
Betty Liu today in an interview from the floor of the New York
Stock Exchange.  “The bet is, is Brian going to get rid of those
problems?” Buffett said, referring to Bank of America Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51. “It won’t take six
months or a year; it will take much longer than that even. But
the underlying business is doing fine.”  Bank of America, which has lost more than half its market
value this year as mortgage-related costs climb, pays Berkshire
$300 million annually in preferred stock dividends and gave the
company warrants to purchase 700 million shares of common stock
for $7.14 each. The deal was announced on Aug. 25, two weeks
after Moynihan said his firm had enough capital.  Moynihan, who has been in charge of the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank since the start of 2010, should be given
time to turn the firm around, Buffett said.  “I don’t want him to step down,” Buffett said. “Brian,
stay at work.”  Bank of America fell 14 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $6.21 at
1:34 p.m. on the NYSE. The shares have slipped about 53 percent
this year.  Selling Assets  The lender is selling assets and settling claims brought by
mortgage investors as Moynihan reshapes the company. Bank of
America posted a record $8.8 billion loss in the three months
ended June 30, the company’s third deficit in four quarters.
Buffett’s investment is “a strong endorsement” in the bank,
Moynihan said in the Aug. 25 statement announcing the deal.  “Eventually, the troubles of the past will be cleaned
up,” Buffett said. “And then you’ll have a wonderful business
that’s going to earn a lot of money.”  Berkshire, which generates earnings of about $1 billion a
month, is seeking uses for a cash hoard that totaled $47.9
billion at the end of June. This month, Buffett completed the
takeover of Lubrizol Corp. for about $9 billion. On Sept. 26,
Berkshire announced a plan to repurchase shares.  When asked if Moynihan gave him a special deal unavailable
to small investors, Buffett replied that the preferred stock of
the bank was also selling at an attractive yield.  “You could have gone out, the day before we bought it, and
gotten a 9 percent yield yourself,” Buffett said.  Bank of America announced yesterday that it would join
other large banks in charging a fee for some debit-card users to
recoup revenue lost after new federal rules capped so-called
swipe fees. The lender will start a $5 monthly charge in
January, said Anne Pace, a company spokeswoman.  “There are 7,000 banks in the  United States , and if
somebody else offers a better deal, people can go to that,”
Buffett said today on CNN. “It’s just like you can change
channels on television.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  