-- 
Buffett’s Moral Foundation Shapes Tax Idea: Roger Lowenstein

-- B y   R o g e r   L o w e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-09-30T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/buffett-s-moral-foundation-shapes-tax-idea-commentary-by-roger-lowenstein.html
Howard Buffett , a Republican
congressman from  Nebraska  and the future billionaire’s father,
once gave back a $2,000 annual pay raise because, he insisted,
he had been elected at the lower salary and it would be wrong to
take the money. Perhaps that was a forerunner of his famous son,
who is publicly advocating higher taxes on the wealthy,
including, potentially, on himself.  If so, the political likeness ends there. Howard (elected
four times, beginning in 1942), was an arch-conservative
opponent of U.S. involvement overseas and of  government spending 
in general. Though tainted by the isolationism of the era,
Howard Buffett was a principled and generous man; he was his
son’s role model and the person he admired most.  No surprise that Warren started adulthood as a
conservative. But his politics evolved. Today, the 81-year-old
billionaire will take his politics to a newly partisan level,
when he co-hosts a $10,000-a-plate fundraiser for President
 Barack Obama  at the Four Seasons restaurant in  New York .  Attention has focused on Buffett’s claim that he, a
billionaire, pays a lower proportion of his taxable income -- he
specified 17.4 percent -- to the federal government than do the
20 other employees at the Omaha office of  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  It has also centered on Obama’s so-called Buffett Rule: the
president’s pledge to raise taxes on people making $1 million
and more so that nobody in this group would pay a lower rate
than people in the middle class.  Political Evolution  The details of how he would accomplish this are unclear,
and however it is crafted, an incremental tax on millionaires
isn’t likely to raise a lot of money. But lost in the thicket of
such considerations is the larger story of Buffett’s political
evolution -- which underlines the central problem in America’s
economy today. That problem is a lack of jobs, particularly
well-paid ones, for all but the very rich. It’s also described
as income equality because the gap between very rich and
everyone else keeps growing. What does this have to do with the
so-called Oracle of Omaha’s politics?  Buffett’s evolution was shaped by two central episodes.
First, as a Depression baby, he saw that the larger federal
government wrought by the New Deal, including its safety-net
provisions, gave rise, in the postwar period, to a more stable
and prosperous society -- one in which millions of blue-collar
workers achieved a middle-class lifestyle that was previously
beyond their dreams.  Based on Merit  Second was Buffett’s deeply held belief in individual
merit. You can understand why a nerdy kid who was good at
numbers thought people should be judged on performance. This is
one reason he became a  money manager , a profession in which
performance is arithmetically measurable. In the 1960s, he was
galvanized by civil rights -- the issue that sealed his break
with the  Republican Party  -- because it was the ultimate test of
merit versus birth.  Buffett took the attachment to merit to a new level. He
scorned the rich for showering their kids with money, which he
thought gave them an unfair edge. Even before he had made a
fortune, he agonized over what to do with his own money. He knew
he would be rich and he didn’t want to spoil his kids. He
favored a steep inheritance tax and lampooned trust-fund babies
for being “born in the right womb.”  But Buffett has never been an economic radical. He was
early to sound the alarm on Social Security obligations, and he
inherited from his father a deep fear that political pressure
would lead to runaway inflation. He didn’t want imprudent
government to jeopardize the system; capitalism has been good to
Buffett, and he knows it.  No Better Off  But Buffett came of age in a society in which millions of
Americans were -- like him, though to a lesser extent -- able to
rise on merit. The door hasn’t closed, but it has seriously
narrowed. After you adjust for inflation, the typical American
household is no better off than it was two decades ago. This
problem was aggravated by the recent recession, but it is deeper
and longer in the making.  Median household income today -- $49,445 -- is roughly the
same as it was in 1989 adjusted for inflation. From 1999 to
2007, before the recession began, median household income
actually fell. For the first time, it dropped during a period of
growth. All of the gains were captured by those at the very top.
This story has been going on for three decades.  In 2007, the top 1 percent of wage earners grabbed 19
percent of total income -- twice the share they had in 1979. You
can pile such statistics to the sky; what they show,
consistently, is that  income distribution  is skewing toward the
very top, and progress for the middle to modestly prosperous
bulk of the country has stopped.  Rising Inequality  Income equality isn’t just a partisan or Democratic issue;
former Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  cited it as a big
concern before the financial crisis. In a sense, it helped to
cause the crisis; one way of viewing the mortgage bubble is that
middle Americans, unable to raise their incomes, maneuvered
(with the help of complicit bankers and asleep-at-the-switch
regulators) to compensate by borrowing more on their homes.  Nor is this just a blue-collar issue. Matthew Slaughter, an
economist at  Tuck School  of Business at Dartmouth, has showed
that even people with a college degree are losing ground. From
2000 to 2010, only those with advanced professional
qualifications, such as an M.B.A. or a doctorate, gained in
income; as a group, college graduates, even those with master’s
degrees, declined.  Slaughter’s tentative diagnosis is that technology has
increased the returns for knowledge, while globalization has
reduced incomes for others. This has long been true of factory
workers; it is now becoming true for white-collar ones. For
instance, rudimentary legal research can now be done by
computers staffed overseas, replacing the need for pricey law-
firm associates to pore over boxes of legal papers.  New Malthusianism  In a sense, America faces a  Malthusian  dilemma: not
overpopulation within our borders, but competition with a
growing population outside. Men face a particular problem;
competition with a new population of educated women. The median
full-time male worker earns less today, adjusted for inflation,
than in 1973.  The way to deal with Malthusian populations (as Sylvia Nasar showed in her recent book, “Grand Pursuit”) is to invest
in industry, raising the productivity of workers and, as a
result, wages. This is how  England  managed to avoid the dire
prophecies of  Karl Marx  in the 19th century.  The way to do it now, Slaughter says, “is with a broad set
of policies that will encourage companies to put high-wage, high
value-added knowledge jobs in the U.S.” It will take time, and
there is no silver bullet, but in general, such policies would
be set for a long time, and be aimed at improving the quality of
education, upgrading infrastructure and simplifying corporate
taxes.  Common Ground  Some policies would be favored by conservatives, such as
incentives for manufacturing and exports. Others, such as
removing the tax break for carried interest for investment
partnerships, would gain the support of liberals. Maybe both
camps could agree to invest in schools. The solutions will be
far more nuanced and longer-lasting that a temporary spate of
deficit spending, or a tweaking of  interest rates . For instance,
is there a way to level the college-application process between
favored legacy students and everybody else?  Buffett isn’t wrong that the wealthy are getting off easy,
even if most millionaires do pay more than ordinary wage
earners. According to an estimate by the  Tax Policy Center ,
people making $1 million will pay an effective federal  tax rate 
this year of 20 percent of cash income. People bringing in
$75,000 to $100,000 will pay only slightly less: 18 percent.
(Two caveats: the center estimates that millionaires will also
pay 9 percent in imputed corporate taxes -- levies paid by
companies in which the rich own shares -- but that doesn’t come
directly out of pocket. And its calculations include both the
employee and the employer portion of the  payroll tax .)  Flat Tax Dreams  Those figures -- 20 percent and 18 percent -- are pretty
close to the flat tax of conservatives’ dreams. Moreover, they
don’t include federal excises on gasoline, or state and local
sales taxes, all of which are regressive.  Taxes are important as a source of revenue for doing good
things (such as education). They are needed, too, to fund the
government safety net and, hopefully, finance federal jobs until
the economy recovers. But taxes won’t of themselves fix the
problem of bad private-sector jobs or too few jobs. Confiscation
isn’t a cure.  Robert Rodriguez , the chief executive officer of Los
Angeles-based First Pacific Advisors LLC and one of the very few
people who predicted the mortgage bust with specificity, says
that, in the past decade, America achieved a kind of false
prosperity through individual borrowing, mostly on mortgages and
credit cards. Such debt soared to 135 percent of  household
income , far above its historic norm. It created the illusion of
middle-class progress, but it wasn’t sustainable. The goal of
policy makers shouldn’t be to return to that illusion, but to
foster a society, similar to the one that Buffett remembers, in
which there was room and opportunity to progress.  ( Roger Lowenstein  is the author of “Buffett: The Making of
an American Capitalist.” He owns Berkshire Hathaway stock. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
David Shipley at   djshipley@bloomberg.net  