-- 
Fed’s Bullard Says Central Bank Could Ease Further If U.S. Economy Weakens

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-09-30T18:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/bullard-says-fed-could-ease-further-if-u-s-economy-weakens.html
St. Louis Federal Reserve President
 James Bullard  said the Fed is prepared to ease policy should the
 U.S. economy  weaken, while keeping an eye on inflation risks.  “The Fed has potent tools at its disposal and is not now,
or ever, out of ammunition,” Bullard said today in a speech in
 San Diego . “Should further weakness develop, monetary policy
will need to respond appropriately,” he said, adding that
“sluggish growth” leaves the economy vulnerable to “shocks.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week the U.S. is
facing “a national crisis” with the jobless rate at around 9
percent since April 2009. The economy lost momentum in August as
 consumer spending  flagged and incomes unexpectedly dropped for
the first time in almost two years, Commerce Department figures
showed today.  Policy makers voted Sept. 21 to push down mortgage and
other loan rates in an effort to spur growth and employment. The
Fed plans to extend maturities of the Treasuries in its
portfolio by buying $400 billion of long-term debt and selling
an equal amount of shorter-term securities.  Stocks fell for two days last week as investors weren’t
persuaded that so-called Operation Twist, similar to an action
in 1961, would help to lift economic growth.  “Outright asset purchases are a potent tool and must be
employed carefully,” Bullard said, citing the increase in
inflation and inflation expectations during the past year. The
central bank “still has to judge tradeoffs between inflation
and support for the recovery.”  Not Much Aid  Bullard told reporters after the speech that he supports
Operation Twist, though he believes it won’t do much to aid the
economy. He doesn’t hold a vote on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  this year.  “I would have supported that,” he said. “I thought the
impact of the program would be marginal, but there was some
analysis presented that suggested there might be an impact from
the program.”  The St. Louis Fed leader said the odds of another recession
have “moved up, but they are not especially high.” He wants to
give the Fed’s measures during the past two months time to work
before considering a new program of asset purchases, he said.  “We have just made two moves” to support growth, he said.
“We need to gauge the impact of those moves before we embark on
a further program.”  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said today he doesn’t
believe the U.S. will relapse into a recession, but “we’re on
an edge here.”  ‘Pushing’ on a String  “We don’t need more monetary stimulus, we need a more
efficient fiscal mechanism,” Fisher said in an interview on Fox
Business Network. The central bank will “be pushing on a string
if we continue to move down this path.”  Bullard said while the pace of economic recovery has been
‘disappointing,’’ most components of real gross domestic
product, such as real consumption expenditures, are now equal or
above the levels in the fourth quarter of 2007. The exception is
investment related to housing, he said at a breakfast sponsored
by Point Loma Nazarene University’s Fermanian Business and
Economic Institute.  Bullard urged Fed policy makers to adopt a more rules-based
approach to monetary policy, with incremental adjustments based
on the course of new economic data rather than announcements of
big programs.  “The Committee in the past did not contemplate announcing
several hundred basis point  interest rate  moves with a fixed end
date,” Bullard said. “Yet that is how the Committee behaves
today.”  Against Fed Pledge  Bullard opposed the Fed’s pledge, made in August and
maintained this month, to hold its benchmark interest rate near
zero at least through the middle of 2013 so long as unemployment
stays high and the inflation outlook is “subdued.” The target
rate has been in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008.  “A meeting-by-meeting balance sheet policy constitutes a
rules-based policy because the Committee would make adjustments
in response to economic events, just as in the interest rate
targeting world,” Bullard said.  “Returning to a more rules-
based approach may provide needed stability to the U.S.
macroeconomy.”  Bullard disagreed with the view expressed by Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  that the Fed should set “markers” for
unemployment and inflation that would need to be reached before
the Fed raises rates.  ‘A Little Leery’  “You could pull monetary policy off course for a long
period of time” with policy linked to the unemployment level
and U.S. unemployment potentially at a higher level similar to
the jobless rate in  Europe , Bullard said. “I am a little leery
about tying monetary policy directly to unemployment,” he said.  Economists have cut their forecasts for growth, according
to a Bloomberg News survey taken from Sept. 2 to Sept. 7. The
median forecast calls for a 1.8 percent annual pace of expansion
in the third quarter, down from 2.1 percent in the previous
month’s survey. Growth next year is forecast to average 2.2
percent, down from 2.4 percent.  Stagnant payrolls in August have added to data over the
past month showing the economy is faltering, including slowing
manufacturing, plunging  consumer confidence , falling home values
and lower bond yields and stock prices.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks fell 1 percent to
1,144.04 at 2:15 p.m. in New York trading. Yields on 10-year
Treasury notes fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point,
to 1.94 percent.  Bullard, 50, doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year. He
joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in 1990 and
became president of the regional bank in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  