-- 
California Gasoline Falls for Second Day on Refinery Unit Start

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-09-30T21:58:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/california-gasoline-falls-for-second-day-on-refinery-unit-start.html
California-blend gasoline weakened
for a second straight day after  ConocoPhillips (COP)  started a unit at
its Rodeo refinery in northern California and the state said
gasoline demand fell 3.6 percent in the second quarter.  The premium for Carbob in San Francisco fell 2 cents to
19.75 cents a gallon above gasoline futures traded on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:19 p.m. East Coast time, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt delivery fell 4.05 cents
to $2.7356 a gallon.  Gasoline consumption fell to 3.66 billion gallons in the
second quarter from 3.8 billion in the same period a year
earlier, the state Board of Equalization said in an e-mailed
statement. ConocoPhillips started a unit yesterday at its
128,000-barrel-a-day Rodeo refinery north of San Francisco,
according to a filing with state regulators.  Rich Johnson , a spokesman for the Houston-based company,
declined to comment on the notice, saying Conoco doesn’t speak
on “day-to-day refinery operations.”  Carbob in  Los Angeles  weakened 1.63 cents to a premium of
18.25 cents over futures. California-blend diesel in Los Angeles
was unchanged at a premium of 12.25 cents above heating oil
futures traded on the Nymex.  The premium for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
Portland, Oregon, was also unchanged at 26 cents over gasoline
futures.  Work on the residual oil supercritical extraction unit, or
ROSE unit, at  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ’s Anacortes refinery in Washington is
still under way, Mike Marcy, a spokesman for the San Antonio-
based company, said in an e-mail. The maintenance was originally
scheduled to be completed by today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  