-- 
California Shifts Thousands of Criminals to County Jails to Reduce Expense

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-09-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/california-shifts-thousands-of-criminals-to-jails-to-cut-costs.html
California  will shift
responsibility for thousands of criminals from state control to
county lockups and local probation under a plan by Governor
 Jerry Brown  to ease prison crowding and cut spending.  Starting tomorrow, felons convicted of nonviolent, low-
level crimes such as drug possession will no longer be sent to
prison. Instead, they’ll be held in a county jail or sentenced
to alternatives such as house arrest, diversion programs or GPS
ankle-bracelet tracking. Local parole officers, instead of state
agents, will monitor most ex-convicts.  California, which slashed spending on schools and the poor
this year to erase a $26 billion projected deficit, runs the
nation’s largest correctional system, with about  161,000 
inmates. The U.S. Supreme Court, citing overcrowding and
inadequate health care, ordered the state to reduce the prison
population by 33,000 in two years.  Holding prisoners in county jail, permitting the prison
population to fall through attrition, “is the most viable plan
to comply with the court’s order,” Brown told reporters
yesterday at the statehouse in Sacramento. “We can’t overturn
the  Supreme Court ’s decision, but we can work together to fix
our broken system and protect public safety.”  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, has touted the plan as a way
to reduce the rate of convicts who return to crime, now almost
70 percent, by putting the care of local offenders in the hands
of local authorities who have a better understanding of local
resources.  Republican lawmakers have expressed concerns that the so-
called realignment will push thousands of felons onto their
streets.  ‘A Dump’  “This is not a realignment, this is a dump,” said
Assemblyman Jim Nielsen, a Republican from Gerber. “A dump of
state problems on the cities, on the counties and more
importantly on the citizens, who will unequivocally and
absolutely be victims of these unrehabilitated criminals.”  When Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, proposed the shift in
January, he asked lawmakers for a statewide referendum to extend
expiring tax increases, with some of that revenue directed to
counties to help pay for the realignment program.  Republican lawmakers refused. Democrats allocated $450
million to help counties with the change this fiscal year, and
plan to put up another $800 million next year and $1 billion
annually after that, though there is no guarantee of funding
each year.  Brown has pledged to push for a constitutional amendment,
requiring voter approval, to secure financing for the shift that
may include a tax increase.  “I’m not leaving  Sacramento  until we get a constitutional
guarantee to protect  law enforcement ,” Brown told a conference
of police and local officials Sept. 21.  The state will spend $9.8 billion on its prisons and parole
system this fiscal year, about 11 percent of an  $85.9 billion
budget . That’s up $224 million from last year but short of the
record of $10.1 billion set in fiscal 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 