-- 
BofA, JPMorgan Proposed Accord Rejected by California’s Harris

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-10-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/california-rejects-50-state-negotiations-over-bank-foreclosures-pracitices.html
A proposed nationwide settlement with
banks including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
is being rejected by California Attorney General Kamala Harris,
who will pursue her own mortgage investigation in the state that
had the second-highest foreclosure rate in August.  The proposed agreement is “inadequate” and would allow
too few California homeowners to stay in their homes, Harris
said in a letter yesterday obtained by Bloomberg News.  “After much consideration, I have concluded that this is
not the deal California homeowners have been waiting for,”
Harris, a Democrat who took office in January, said in the
letter to the U.S. Justice Department and the Iowa attorney
general, who is leading talks for the states.  All 50 state  attorneys general  last year announced they
were investigating bank foreclosure procedures following
complaints that the companies were using faulty documents in
seizing homes.  State attorneys general and federal agencies have been
negotiating a settlement with the five largest mortgage
servicers, including  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America and New York-based JPMorgan. They have sought a
settlement that would fund loan modifications and set
requirements for how the banks conduct foreclosures and interact
with borrowers. Harris’s office has been negotiating directly
with the banks on behalf of the states.  One in every 226 California housing units had a foreclosure
filing during August, more than twice the national average and
second only to  Nevada , according to a RealtyTrac Inc. report.
Harris said 2.2 million Californians are underwater in their
mortgages.  Infighting Over Settlement  Harris’s move comes amid infighting by state attorneys
general over the settlement effort. In August, Iowa Attorney
General Tom Miller removed New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  from an executive committee representing the 50
states. Miller said Schneiderman was “working to actively
undermine” the multistate group and encouraged opposition to
the negotiations, according a statement from Miller’s office and
a Sept. 2 letter he wrote.  Schneiderman and other attorneys general who are conducting
their own investigations into bank mortgage practices have
raised concerns about liability releases that would be given to
banks as part of any deal, protecting them from state and
federal lawsuits.  The scope of the release has divided the two sides and is
the main obstacle to reaching a settlement, a person involved in
the talks said. The banks have sought broad releases that would
go beyond claims stemming from their foreclosure practices,
people familiar with the matter have said.  Delaware , Massachusetts  Several attorneys general, including Schneiderman,
Delaware’s  Beau Biden , and Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley , have spoken out on the issue, saying the banks
shouldn’t receive releases for matters that haven’t been fully
investigated, including mortgage securitization and the use of a
mortgage database known as MERS.  “Ongoing investigations by attorneys general cannot be
shut down by efforts to settle quickly and those responsible
must be held accountable,” Danny Kanner, a spokesman for
Schneiderman said after  New York ’s removal from the executive
committee.  ‘Fully Investigated’  Biden, who is investigating mortgage securitization and
MERS, defended Schneiderman following his removal, saying the
New York attorney general has raised “important and legitimate
concerns” about the scope of the releases. Events leading up to
the mortgage crisis “must be fully investigated,” Biden said
at the time.  In her letter, Harris criticized the proposed releases.  “It became clear to me that California was being asked for
a broader release of claims than we can accept and to excuse
conduct that has not been adequately investigated,” she wrote.  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Miller, said there is no
agreement “on the scope of the release, and any suggestion
otherwise is false.”  Harris in May announced the creation of a mortgage-fraud
 task force  that she said would investigate “every step” of the
mortgage process from lending to the sale of mortgage-backed
securities.  “I am committed to doing as thorough an investigation as
is needed -- and to taking the time that is necessary -- to set
the stage for achieving appropriate accountability for
misconduct,” she wrote in the letter.  Harris previously served at  San Francisco ’s district
attorney and said in a Sept. 29 speech she views the damage
caused by the mortgage crisis with the bias of a prosecutor.  ‘See the Evidence’  “I’d like to see the evidence, I want to know that we are
involved in a meaningful investigation,” she said during
remarks at a housing market conference sponsored by the Public
Policy Institute of  California . “I’m reluctant to sign a deal
where I haven’t seen the evidence.”  The group of states negotiating with the banks won’t agree
to any settlement that releases the companies from state claims
for securitization practices, an official with direct knowledge
of their thinking said. Releases for federal claims are being
separately handled by federal officials, the person said.  One state official who has had input on the release
language said negotiators were previously contemplating
releasing banks from liability for loan origination claims. That
would undermine a potential securitization case, said the
person, who declined to be named because the talks are private.  Securitization Case  A recent proposal by the states included language that
would have damaged a securitization case and would have
protected the banks from claims tied to their use of the MERS
database, said another person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified.  Besides JPMorgan and Bank of America, the other companies
involved in the talks are  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
Ally Financial Inc.  The multistate group will continue its negotiations and
expects to reach a settlement with the banks, Miller, the Iowa
attorney general, said in an e-mailed statement.  “This multistate is about foreclosures and mortgage
servicing abuse, and we are 100 percent focused on providing
relief to homeowners while it can still make a difference and
save homes from foreclosure,” he said. “Providing relief after
the foreclosure crisis is over would be a hollow victory
indeed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  