-- 
Canada July Gross Domestic Product Rises 0.3% on Factories

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-09-30T14:41:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/canada-july-gross-domestic-product-rises-0-3-on-manufacturing.html
Canada ’s gross domestic product
rose for a second month in July on gains in manufacturing and
wholesaling, enough to avert a recession in the third quarter,
economists said.  Output rose 0.3 percent to C$1.26 trillion ($1.21 trillion)
on a seasonally adjusted basis, Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa, matching the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey with
23 responses.  The economy shrank in the second quarter as a high Canadian
dollar and manufacturing shutdowns reduced exports, raising the
prospect of the second recession since 2009 if output declined
again on further global weakness. Growth may stumble in the next
few quarters because of weak U.S. demand and  Europe ’s debt
crisis, economists said.  “Canada is better placed than many countries but it’s
still a risky environment,” said Leslie Preston, an economist
at  Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)  “If the U.S. falls into a recession
Canada is likely to follow.”  Canada’s dollar depreciated for a third day versus its U.S.
counterpart, falling to the lowest in more than a year, on
concern a slowdown in the global economy will crimp exports. The
currency fell 0.4 percent to C$1.0398 per  U.S. dollar  at 10:39
a.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0359 yesterday. Earlier it
touched C$1.0467, the weakest level since Sept. 8, 2010. One
Canadian dollar buys 96.18 U.S. cents.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg last month forecast a
third-quarter annualized growth rate of 2 percent. The quarterly
growth rate would still be 1.3 percent even if output stalls in
August and September according to  Michael Gregory , senior
economist at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  in Toronto.  Still, exports make up a third of Canada’s economy, and a
Bloomberg poll of global investors taken Sept. 26 had 37 percent
saying that a debt crisis in the  euro zone  will lead to a global
economic meltdown within the next year.  “There is a little bit of momentum here” in Canada,
Gregory said in a telephone interview. “Those next couple of
quarters coming down the pipe are the ones where the recession
risks are getting a little bit higher.”  The  International Monetary Fund  cut Canada’s economic
growth forecast Sept. 20, citing weaker U.S. demand and slower
 government spending , and said Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  can
afford to offer new stimulus if needed. The 2011 growth forecast
was reduced to 2.1 percent from a June prediction of 2.9
percent, and the expansion will slow further to 1.9 percent next
year, the IMF said.  Manufacturing rose 1.4 percent in July, the first increase
in four months, with gains in automobiles, machinery and
chemicals,  Statistics Canada  said. Wholesaling rose 1.5 percent,
and the production of utilities rose at the same rate as warm
weather boosted demand for electricity. Transportation and
warehousing rose 1.8 percent after labor disruptions at the
national postal service ended.  The gains in goods production are a reversal from the
second quarter when the economy shrank at a 0.4 percent
annualized pace.  Gross domestic product grew 2.3 percent in July from the
same month a year earlier, Statistics Canada said today.  The July report also showed some signs of weakness.
Construction fell 0.3 percent during the month, and mining and
oil and gas production declined by the same amount.  Retailing fell 0.7 percent on fewer sales of automobiles.
Excluding autos, output of retailers was little changed,
Statistics Canada said. The output of real estate agents and
brokers fell 1.1 percent.  Household debt as a share of disposable income rose to a
record 150.8 percent at the end of June from 149.5 percent the
previous quarter, Statistics Canada said Sept. 13.  “There are some signs of the consumers engaging in more
cautious behavior, which I think is a good thing at this time,”
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce Chief Executive Officer
Gerald McCaughey said at a Sept. 21 investor conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 