-- 
Canada July Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-09-30T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/canada-july-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the July GDP report released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product rose 0.3% in July following
a 0.2% increase in June. Manufacturing and, to a lesser
extent, wholesale trade and transportation services were
the main sources of growth. Increases in utilities and the
public sector (public administration, education and  health
services ) were also recorded. Retail trade, mining and oil
and gas extraction, construction and the finance and
insurance sector decreased.  Real gross domestic product increases in July  Manufacturing increases  Manufacturing increased 1.4% in July following three
consecutive monthly declines. Growth was broadly based,
with manufacturing of both durable (+2.1%) and non-durable
goods (+0.5%) advancing. Manufacturers of motor vehicles
and parts, fabricated metals, machinery and chemical
products posted significant gains. Manufacturing of food
as well as furniture and related products was down.  Manufacturing output rises after three monthly declines  Transportation and warehousing services resume growth  Transportation and warehousing services grew 1.8%,
mainly as a result of a return to a more normal level of
activity in postal services following labour disruptions
in June. Rail, trucking and air transportation also showed
growth in July.  Widespread gains in wholesale while retail declines  Wholesale trade rose 1.5% in July. Increases were
registered in many of the sub-sectors, particularly in
motor vehicles and parts, personal and household goods as
well as machinery and equipment.  Retail trade fell 0.7%, with a significant decrease in
motor vehicles and parts dealers. Excluding  motor vehicle 
and parts dealers, retail trade was unchanged.  Utilities advance  The output of utilities increased 1.5%, as warmer than
normal temperatures in most parts of the country led to
higher demand for electricity. Natural gas distribution
was up, partly as a result of increased industrial
consumption.  Construction down  Construction declined 0.3% in July, with decreases in
non-residential building construction and in engineering
and repair work. Residential construction edged up 0.1% in
July.  Activity in the home resale market softened in July,
which led to a 1.1% decline in the output of real estate
agents and brokers.  Mining and oil and gas extraction falls  Mining and oil and gas extraction fell 0.3%, as the
significant decline in natural gas extraction outweighed
the increase in crude petroleum production. Support
activities for mining and oil and gas extraction also
declined, as a result of reduced drilling activity.  Excluding oil and gas extraction, mining output grew
2.9%. This was largely attributable to gains in copper,
nickel, lead and zinc mining following a period of
production difficulties and maintenance work.  Finance and insurance down  The finance and insurance sector decreased 0.3%, as
both the volume of trading on the  stock exchanges  and the
sales of mutual funds declined. Lower activity for
insurance carriers was also a factor in the decline.  Main industrial sectors' contribution to the percent
change in gross domestic product, July 2011  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry
data at basic prices are chained volume estimates with
2002 as the reference year. This means that the data for
each industry and each aggregate are obtained from a
chained volume index multiplied by the industry's value
added in 2002. For the 1997 to 2008 period, the monthly
data are benchmarked to annually chained Fisher volume
indexes of GDP obtained from the constant-price input-
output tables.  For the period starting with January 2009, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index
to the prior period. The fixed weights are 2008 industry
prices.  This approach makes the monthly GDP by industry data
more comparable with the expenditure-based GDP data,
chained quarterly.  Revisions  With this release of monthly GDP by industry, the data
incorporate the new 2008 input-output annual benchmarks,
revised source data, improved methodologies and revised
seasonal adjustment factors. As a result, the monthly
series have been revised back to January 2007.  For more information about monthly GDP by industry, see
the National economic accounts module on our website
(www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/index-eng.htm).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  