-- 
Canceled Flights at 10-Year High Amid Blizzard-to-Irene Upheaval

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-09-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/canceled-flights-at-10-year-high-amid-blizzard-to-irene-upheaval.html
U.S. airlines are canceling flights
at the fastest clip in a decade as storms from blizzards to
hurricanes wallop the busiest hubs, and full planes are making
it harder for stranded travelers to rebook trips.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
other large carriers have scrubbed almost 104,000 flights this
year through Sept. 21, or 2.36 percent of the scheduled total. A
full-year rate at that level would be the highest since 2001,
according to the U.S. Bureau of Transportation Statistics.  The disruptions stem from a combination of foul weather in
major markets such as New York and seating-capacity cutbacks to
curb costs. When  Hurricane Irene  struck the East Coast in
August, Cameron C. McCulloch faced a weeklong wait for a new
ticket -- so he drove the 3,000 miles from Seattle to Yale
University to catch the start of classes.  “There was too much uncertainty with the flights,” said
McCulloch, 21, a Yale junior. “At least with driving I knew I’d
be there on time and that I could control all the factors.”  Annual cancellations have exceeded 2 percent just six times
in 24 years of federal recordkeeping. Researcher FlightStats.com
computed the 2011 year-to-date figure for Bloomberg, using data
reported by airlines. BTS won’t disclose its September figures
until November.  ‘Getting Smarter’  Airlines are “canceling sooner and getting smarter about
doing it,” said  Michael Derchin , an analyst at CRT Capital
Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “They save money when they
pre-plan and recover more quickly afterwards.”  By moving jets out of a storm’s path, carriers are able to
start rebuilding normal operations more quickly once conditions
improve, and they don’t have to spend as much on crew pay and
overnight emergency accommodations, or on fuel.  U.S. airlines are now 24 percent more likely to cancel
flights after the so-called three-hour tarmac rule that was
imposed in April 2010, according to a Sept. 14 study by the
Government Accountability Office.  The rule provides for fines against carriers that keep
fliers on planes for more than three hours after leaving the
gate without offering them a chance to get off. Political
support for the regulation grew after the Feb. 14, 2007, storm
that marooned 130,000  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  passengers in
terminals and on planes at New York’s Kennedy airport.  The severity and location of storms this year helped
balloon cancellation rates.  Snow, Ice, Irene  A February blizzard hobbled United and  American Airlines  in
 Chicago  and then dropped a record blanket on New York, home to
the busiest U.S. airspace. Ice storms belted Delta’s Atlanta hub
in January and American’s hometown Dallas-Fort Worth hub before
 Super Bowl  weekend the next month.  Hurricane Irene’s path took it across  Washington ,
Philadelphia, New York and  Boston  at the end of August. Adding
cancellations from that storm to others in August and September,
U.S. airlines scrubbed more than 16,200 flights in the two-month
period, according to Portland, Oregon-based FlightStats.com.  Among them was the Aug. 27 trip that Yale student McCulloch
planned on Alaska Airlines from  Seattle  to  Newark ,  New Jersey .  He borrowed his parents’ Subaru Forester sport-utility
vehicle for the 4,827-kilometer (3,000-mile) drive rather than
wait to be rebooked. His younger brother flew in from Seattle a
few days ago to ferry the auto back to their parents.  “I didn’t want to start the semester behind from the get-
go,” McCulloch said. “I couldn’t count on flying.”  Seating Cutback  Seats already were in shorter supply this year. The
industry has cut 15 percent of its capacity since 2008 when
demand plummeted during the recession, making it tougher to find
open seats to rebook passengers on new flights.  Planes flew 85.5 percent full in June, the most-recent data
available and a near-record for that month, according to BTS. By
comparison, planes were 74 percent full in June 1996 when
airlines were adding capacity.  Airlines said they were able to rebook most Irene-grounded
passengers within a few days by adding extra flights and
scheduling those fliers on Tuesday and Wednesday, which are
slower travel days. They also allowed passengers to change their
itineraries to dodge the storm or reroute through airports that
weren’t in Irene’s way, spokesmen said.  “I don’t think the  airline industry  opened itself up to
criticism on this one,” said Jay Sorensen, a consultant with
IdeaWorks in Shorewood,  Wisconsin , who was previously marketing
director at Midwest Airlines. “They knew the storm was coming,
and they prepared and responded as best they could.”  ‘Very Dynamic’  When Alaska Airlines started canceling flights for Irene,
it initially appeared that some rebookings would take a week,
said Paul McElroy, a spokesman for the Seattle-based carrier.
That delay shrank as passengers canceled trips and the airline
added more flights, allowing it to re-accommodate all New York-
and Boston-bound travelers within three days, he said.  “Situations like that can be very dynamic and deceiving at
first,” McElroy said. “That’s why we always tell passengers to
keep checking the website or calling.”  Callie Crisp, who works in advertising for children’s books
at Harper Collins in  New York , got home after Irene by taking a
JetBlue flight from Tampa,  Florida , instead of  Orlando , where
she originally was scheduled to depart after a weekend visiting
her family. She made it out on a Monday night, one day late,
instead of waiting for a Thursday return from Orlando, she said.  “I would have missed so much work,” said Crisp, 25.  While the weather has trashed travelers’ itineraries and
sapped airline sales, CRT Capital’s Derchin said the storms
haven’t been severe enough to prompt adjustment of his financial
models for the industry.  ‘Fluky Year’  United, which operates a hub at Newark, said Irene reduced
August revenue by  $40 million , the most of any U.S. carrier.
Delta said its biggest upheaval this year was the January ice
storm, which caused 4,600 cancellations over three days. Revenue
was cut $40 million by that and other storms in the same month,
offset by $10 million in expense savings, Delta said at the
time. That was twice the effect Delta estimated for Irene.  “It’s been a very fluky year, weather-wise,” Derchin
said. “Irene going up the East Coast the way it did was one of
those 100-year type events that happened to track in an
extremely populated part of the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 