-- 
Cargolux to Take Boeing 747 After Resolving Fuel-Burn Issue

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-10-01T17:29:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/cargolux-to-take-boeing-747-8-after-resolving-contract-issue-1-.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s new 747-8 jumbo jet will
enter service in mid-October, a month later than planned, after
initial customer Cargolux International SA resolved a fuel-burn
dispute with engine-maker  General Electric Co. (GE)   Cargolux rejected delivery of the first two 747-8
freighters because of a 2.7 percent shortfall in fuel-efficiency
guarantees, said Akbar Al-Baker, chief executive officer of
Cargolux investor  Qatar Airways  Ltd. The carrier made the
decision three days before it was to accept the planes, during a
Sept. 16 board meeting that was Al-Baker’s first after Qatar
Airways took a 35 percent stake in June.  “Unfortunately, the management of Cargolux did not take
the action they should have taken during the process of the
aircraft acceptance,” Al-Baker said yesterday as he prepared to
pick up a 777 at Boeing’s wide-body jet plant in Everett,
Washington. “As we sit on the board of Cargolux, we have full
right to object if we find something is not fair as far as
Cargolux is concerned.”  The GEnx engine was underperforming, “and this issue was
very strongly raised and was appreciated by the board,” he
said. The problem has been resolved with GE, and the delivery
will now occur around Oct. 12, pending another board meeting on
Oct. 7, Al-Baker said. Luxembourg-based Cargolux confirmed the
“tentative agreement” in a statement today.  GE Engine  “We will do delivery planning once the Cargolux board has
approved” the plane’s handover, said  Jim Proulx , a spokesman
for Boeing, which had to cancel three days’ worth of events and
ceremonies planned last month to mark the plane’s intended entry
into service. He declined to comment on the jet’s performance
guarantees or on contractual agreements with customers.  Al-Baker declined to comment on compensation or say how the
issue was resolved. A GE Aviation spokeswoman, Deborah Case,
declined to comment on Al-Baker’s remarks.  GE Aviation reiterated in August that it was developing a
 performance improvement package , first discussed in April, for
the GEnx-2B engine used on the 747-8. The PIP, as it is known,
should be ready in mid to late 2013, Case said.  Cargolux’s delivery deferral was followed the next week by
 Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings Inc. (AAWW) ’s decision to reject the first
three of 12 747-8s it had ordered, citing “lengthy delays and
performance considerations.” Boeing has said the planes, two
years behind schedule, won’t initially meet performance
guarantees, though they will be improved.  Cargolux Board  “Even these first airplanes we deliver will have double-
digit gains in fuel efficiency” over the 747-400, Proulx said.  Boeing now has orders for 75 of the $319.3 million
freighters and for 36 of the 747-8 Intercontinental, the $317.5
million passenger version that’s still being tested and is set
for its first delivery by year-end. Airlines typically get
discounts off the  list prices .  Qatar Air has three representatives on Cargolux’s board,
including Al-Baker, who has criticized Boeing for delays on the
787s he has ordered.  The matters are “absolutely unrelated,” he said
yesterday. “I cannot use Cargolux to get additional concessions
from Boeing.”  Qatar now expects its first 787 delivery by mid-2012, not
February as planned, Al-Baker said. The delay is because of
certification needed for special equipment Qatar wants to add
rather than the plane itself, he said.  ‘A Few Hiccups’  Al-Baker in 2009 threatened to cancel his order of the
plastic-composite 787 if there were any further setbacks, saying
the Chicago-based planemaker was being run by “bean counters.”
The 787 was delivered to its first customer this week, after
seven delays put it more than three years behind schedule.  Al-Baker yesterday described his relationship with Boeing
as strong, “despite a few hiccups along the way.” The 777
Qatar Air picked up yesterday is the 14-year-old carrier’s 100th
Boeing plane.  “We have absolute confidence in Boeing and its fine
aircraft, and of course we will be interested once we see what
Boeing will do” in tweaking the 777 to better compete against
Airbus SAS’s A350-1000, he said. The planemaker has said it may
revamp the 777’s wings and engines and use more lighter-weight
composites to improve  fuel efficiency .  Qatar is still evaluating its fleet requirements for smaller
aircraft, he said, adding that he wanted to wait until the Dubai
Air Show next month before making an announcement regarding
Airbus’s A320neo.  Al-Baker said the airline is “too busy with our other
aircraft programs” to decide whether to order  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s
new CSeries model. A planned order for that model at the
Farnborough Air Show in 2010 was shelved after Qatar Air said it
hadn’t been able to reach terms with engine supplier  Pratt &
Whitney .  “We hope we will reinvigorate our interest once we have
finished the current programs we have on hand,” Al-Baker said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Everett,  Washington , at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  