-- 
Carney Says No Differences With Buffett on Tax Principle

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-09-30T20:17:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/carney-says-no-differences-with-buffett-on-tax-reform-principle.html
No differences exist between the
Obama administration and billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  on
the principles of a White House tax proposal that bears his
name, said  Jay Carney , President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman.  Comments Buffett made in television interviews this morning
have been “misconstrued, at best” by the president’s
opponents, Carney said at a daily briefing with reporters.  Obama has adopted a “Buffett rule” as the centerpiece of
his campaign to overhaul the  tax code . In an interview with
Bloomberg Television today, Buffett said his proposal, which
would ensure the wealthiest Americans pay at least as great a
share of their income in taxes as middle-class wage-earners,
would only raise taxes on “about 50,000 people.” He said it
would cover extremely wealthy people who pay “very low” taxes
because investment income is taxed at a lower rate than wages
and salaries.  Buffett, the chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc ., said he
didn’t intend to promote a general increase in taxes on all
higher-income taxpayers.  “It would simply mean that if you made tens of millions of
dollars and your tax rate was 16 or 17 percent, you would start
paying like the person who made $100,000 or $10 million who paid
normal tax rates,” Buffett told Bloomberg Television. “An
athlete making 10 million dollars, he would not have a change in
his tax rate at all.”  Principle for Reform  Carney said the Buffett rule as proposed by Obama is “a
principle” for  tax reform  that is consistent with that view.
The administration hasn’t estimated how many people it would
affect or how much revenue it would raise.  Buffett said he estimated changing the tax structure would
raise about $20 billion.  “If you give me a choice between taking 1,000 dollars from
20 million families or hitting 50,000 people who shuffle around
money all day, I’ll take it from the people who shuffle money,”
Buffett said.  The White House budget office estimates the deficit for the
fiscal year ending today will be $1.3 trillion.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, has
criticized plans to raise taxes on the wealthy as “class
warfare.”  In a Sept. 21 blog post on the White House  website ,  Gene Sperling , director the president’s National Economic Council,
said the Buffett rule would mean taxpayers who make at least $1
million wouldn’t pay lower rates than middle-income taxpayers.  Tax Rates  Sperling said that would be accomplished by limiting
higher-income taxpayers’ ability to use lower tax rates for
investment income and deductions for expenses to bring their
effective tax rates below that paid by middle-income families.  Middle-income families may pay marginal tax rates of 25
percent and 28 percent on their income, Sperling said. While
higher-income families pay tax rates up to 35 percent on wages
and salaries, in many cases their investment income is taxed at
a 15 percent rate.  Sperling cited a U.S. Treasury Department  analysis of data 
from the  Internal Revenue Service  that found 22,000 households
making more than $1 million annually paid less than 15 percent
of their income in taxes in 2009. Among the 400 richest
Americans -- those with income of at least $110 million per year
-- the average effective tax rate was 18.1 percent in 2008,
according to the IRS.  Obama has cited Buffett, who has been an informal adviser
to the president since before the 2008 campaign, in highlighting
the disparity as he has traveled the country in recent weeks to
promote his economic agenda.  Loopholes  “A construction worker who’s making $50,000 or $60,000 a
year shouldn’t be paying a higher tax rate than the guy who’s
making $50 million a year,” Obama said in Cincinnati,  Ohio , on
Sept. 22. “That’s how it’s working right now because they get
all these loopholes and tax breaks that you don’t get.”  Buffett, 81, is hosting a fundraiser for Obama tonight in
 New York . The event will be held at the Four Seasons restaurant
and will feature an economic discussion led by  Austan Goolsbee ,
a former Obama economic adviser now at the University of Chicago
Booth School of Business. About 100 people are expected to
attend the $10,000-a-ticket session.  In a separate interview on Fox Business, Buffett said that
while he doesn’t necessarily support every administration
policy, “I support the president 100 percent.’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ; Mike Dorning in Washington at 
   morning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  