-- 
Cephalon Gets U.S. Justice Department Subpoena for Top-Sellers

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-09-30T16:31:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/cephalon-gets-u-s-justice-department-subpoena-for-top-sellers.html
Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  received a subpoena
from the U.S.  Justice Department  asking for information about
the marketing of Nuvigil and Provigil, the company’s best-
selling medicines to promote wakefulness.  Cephalon, based in Frazer,  Pennsylvania , said it will fully
cooperate and is responding to the request, which was disclosed
in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Nuvigil is the subject of a $3.6 million radio campaign by
Cephalon, as reported by Bloomberg Businessweek last month. The
advertising promotes the drug’s ability to help shift workers
stay alert on the job without impeding their ability to sleep
during the day. The company also is spending $490,000 on an
Internet campaign featuring the “Wake-Up Squad” and
informational booths at community events to promote Nuvigil.  The subpoena focuses on a “limited number” of promotional
activities that the company fully vetted to make sure they
complied with all laws and regulations, said Natalie deVane, a
company spokeswoman, in an e-mailed statement. Cephalon has
fulfilled all of the requirements under a five-year corporate
integrity agreement it entered into in 2008 and will continue to
do so, she said.  Teva Takeover  Israel ’s Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. agreed in May
to buy Cephalon for $6.2 billion in part because of Nuvigil’s
prospects. Nuvigil is the company’s second-generation
wakefulness drug, designed to work longer than the original pill
Provigil, Cephalon’s best-selling narcolepsy medication that is
losing patent protection next year.  Cephalon lost a bid in 2010 to dismiss antitrust lawsuits,
including one by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, which
accused it of improperly delaying Provigil’s competition by
entering into patent-infringement settlements with generic
drugmakers. The company, which denies violating antitrust law,
signed four patent settlements with generic-drug makers so they
wouldn’t begin sales until 2012. The FTC claims Cephalon
“bought off” the potential rivals by agreeing to pay more than
$200 million if they dropped their challenges to a patent on the
medicine.  In November 2007, Cephalon agreed to pay $425 million to
settle a U.S. investigation into its sales and marketing
practices for drugs. A year later the company agreed to pay
$6.85 million to settle state probes into its marketing of drugs
for unapproved uses, including Provigil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  