-- 
McGraw-Hill, CME May Merge Stock-Index Units

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-09-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/mcgraw-hill-cme-in-talks-to-combine-s-p-dow-index-businesses.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. and  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
are in talks to combine their stockmarket index businesses,
uniting the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , said a person with knowledge of the matter.  In the deal under discussion, New York-based McGraw-Hill
would end up with about a 75 percent stake in the combined
venture, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the talks are private. Chicago-based CME would hold most
of the rest, and News Corp., a minority owner of the Dow Jones
index business, would get a small stake, this person said.  McGraw-Hill and CME may be weeks away from reaching an
agreement, the person said. The companies have been discussing a
combination for about a year and recently brought  News Corp. (NWSA) 
into the talks, the person said.  Laurie Bischel, a spokeswoman at CME Group, said in an e-
mail that the company doesn’t comment on rumor or speculation.
Patti Rockenwagner, a spokeswoman for McGraw-Hill, declined to
comment.  The Wall Street Journal reported the story yesterday.  S&P’s index business is worth about $1.7 billion, Sloan Bohlen, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New York , said
in a Sept. 1 report. The company has grown to more than 100,000
indexes in markets globally from its index of the 500 largest
U.S. companies started in 1957.  Two Companies  McGraw-Hill said Sept. 12 it would split into two
companies, separating its textbook publishing business from its
other media and finance businesses, which will be renamed
McGraw-Hill Markets, following a strategic review that began
last year. Shareholders Jana Partners LLC and  Ontario Teachers’
Pension Plan  proposed in August that the company break into four
businesses, with the S&P index business as a standalone company.  CME Group became a publicly traded company in 2002 and
merged with the Chicago Board of Trade in 2007.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
McGraw-Hill and CME in providing financial indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  