-- 
McGraw-Hill, CME in Talks to Combine Index Businesses, WSJ Says

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y   a n d   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 
2011-09-30T00:32:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/mcgraw-hill-cme-in-talks-to-combine-index-businesses-wsj-says.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. and  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
are in talks to combine their index businesses, the Wall Street
Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter.  The talks are focusing on Standard & Poor’s Indices
business and CME’s Dow Jones indexes, the Journal said. McGraw-
Hill, based in  New York , would be the largest stakeholder and
manage the venture. Under the terms being discussed, Chicago-
based CME would have about 25 percent of the business, the
newspaper said.  Laurie Bischel, a spokeswoman at CME Group, said in an e-
mail that the company doesn’t comment on rumor or speculation.
Patti Rockenwagner, a spokeswoman for McGraw-Hill, declined to
comment.  McGraw-Hill said on Sept. 12 it would split into two
companies, separating its textbook publishing business from its
other media and finance businesses, which will be renamed
McGraw-Hill Markets, following a strategic review that began
last year. Shareholders Jana Partners LLC and  Ontario Teachers’
Pension Plan  proposed in August that the company break into four
businesses, with the S&P index business as a standalone company.  S&P’s index business is worth about $1.7 billion, Sloan Bohlen, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York, said
in a Sept. 1 report. The company has grown to more than 100,000
indexes in markets globally from its index of the 500 largest
U.S. companies started in 1957.  CME Group became a publicly traded company in 2002. It
merged with the Chicago Board of Trade in 2007.  The discussions have been going on for more than a year and
may still fall apart, the Journal said. CME owns 90 percent of
Dow Jones Indexes, while Dow Jones & Co. parent  News Corp. (NWSA)  has
the remaining 10 percent after a deal announced in February
2010. Dow Jones & Co. may get a “minimal” stake in the indexes
venture between McGraw-Hill and CME, the Journal reported.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
McGraw-Hill and CME in providing financial indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net ;
Joanna Ossinger in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Julie Alnwick at 
 jalnwick@bloomberg.net  