-- 
Chaoda Modern Says Chairman Kwok Disputes Hong Kong Tribunal’s Allegations

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-09-30T12:59:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/chaoda-chairman-disputes-tribunal-allegations.html
Chaoda Modern Agriculture
(Holdings) Ltd., a Chinese vegetable supplier, said Chairman
Kwok Ho and Chief Financial Officer Andy Chan dispute  insider
trading  allegations by Hong Kong’s market misconduct tribunal.  The allegations aren’t made against the company, Chaoda
Modern said today in a Hong Kong stock exchange statement. Kwok
and Chan “do not accept” the allegations, it said.  Kwok, Chan, and Fidelity Management’s George Stairs were
accused by Hong Kong’s financial secretary of insider trading,
according to a notice released by the tribunal on Sept. 28.
Kwok, who founded Chaoda, has a 19.6 percent stake in the
company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It is not expected that the proceedings will have any
material effect on either the operations or financial position
of the company or any of its subsidiaries,” Chaoda Modern said.  The financial secretary alleges the chairman and chief
financial officer told Stairs about a June 2009 share placement
three days before it was publicly announced, and the  fund
manager  traded profitably as a result, according to the
tribunal’s Sept. 28 notice. A further tribunal hearing is
scheduled for Jan. 30.  Next Magazine alleged in a May 26 report that Chaoda
exaggerated its farmland, which was denied by the company. The
legal proceedings are “completely unrelated” to the Next
Magazine report, the company said in today’s statement.  Shares Suspended  Chaoda’s shares were suspended from trading on Sept. 26,
the day the misconduct proceedings were reported. They were
first reported as being against the company, after a government
spokeswoman said Chaoda was listed as the subject matter of
a hearing at the tribunal. Shares will remain suspended until
the company issues a statement to address a report by Anonymous
Analytics, it said. The report questions Chaoda’s accounts.  Chaoda will delay releasing its annual results for the year
ending June 30, which were expected today, to “include
additional audit procedures” after reports from the media and
Anonymous Analytics, the company said in a filing to the Hong
Kong Stock Exchange today.  Chaoda said in the filing it would decide later when to
release the results. Eric Yip of Christensen, which handles
 investor relations  for Chaoda, said he does not know how long
the additional auditing procedures will take and declined to
elaborate on the filing.  The share suspension and allegations made by the report,
which may affect the company’s future funding and expansion
plans, are “of more immediate concern” than the insider-
trading accusations, Ken Chan, a Hong Kong-based senior analyst
at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a report today.  Reports by “whistleblowing” short sellers including Muddy
Waters LLC and Anonymous Analytics can “severely influence debt
and equity prices” and limit funding sources for the company,
Fitch Ratings Ltd. said in a report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  