-- 
Business Activity in U.S. Unexpectedly Accelerates in Sign of Confidence

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-30T14:25:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/chicago-purchasing-managers-index-unexpectedly-rose-to-60-4-in-september.html
Business activity in the U.S.
unexpectedly accelerated in September, a sign executives are
betting the economy will weather recent slumps in stocks and
confidence.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer rose to 60.4 this month from 56.5 in
August. A level of 50 is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction. Economists forecast the gauge would drop to 55,
according to the median  estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Manufacturers such as  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)  are counting on
growing sales to  China  and other emerging countries to buffer
them from slowing domestic demand. While announcing more
unconventional measures to boost growth, the Federal Reserve
last week said U.S. business investment continued to expand.  “There is still lingering support from exports and
domestic demand but growth is slowing,” said  Joshua Shapiro ,
chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in  New York .
“These regional surveys can be very volatile. Some of it in
recent months is the automotive rebound.”  Estimates for the Chicago index from the 57 economists
surveyed ranged from 52 to 58.  Other reports today showed  consumer spending  slowed in
August as incomes unexpectedly dropped for the first time in
almost two years, while sentiment improved this month from an
almost three-year low.  Spending Cools  Purchases rose 0.2 percent after a 0.7 percent increase the
prior month, according to figures from the Commerce Department.
A 0.2 percent advance in prices wiped out the gain in so-called
nominal, or unadjusted, spending. Incomes decreased 0.1 percent,
the first decline since October 2009.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment climbed to 59.4 this month, higher than
forecast, from 55.7 in August. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was 57.8, the same as the preliminary
reading for September. The group’s measure of consumer
expectations six months from now also rose.  Stocks trimmed losses following the reports from Chicago
purchasers and sentiment. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell
0.8 percent to 1,151.75 at 10:22 a.m. in New York after having
been down as much as 1.7 percent earlier.  Treasury securities 
rose, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to
1.94 percent from 2 percent late yesterday.  Orders Improve  The Chicago group’s production gauge increased to 63.9 from
57.8. The gauge of new orders climbed to 65.3, the highest level
since April, from 56.9. The employment measure rose to 60.6, the
highest since May, from 52.1 the prior month.  The measure of prices paid dropped to 62.3, a one-year low,
from 68.6 and a gauge of inventories advanced to 60.3 from 52.9.  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers with operations in the U.S.
and abroad, making the gauge a measure of overall growth.  The ISM’s national factory index fell in September to 50.3,
the lowest level since July 2009, from 50.6 the prior month,
according to the median projection in a Bloomberg survey ahead
of the Oct. 3 report. Like the Chicago survey, a reading greater
than 50 signals expansion.  Other Reports  Other regional surveys released this month showed factories
have been scaling back. New York-region factories shrank for a
fourth straight month in September and manufacturing in the
Philadelphia area contracted for a third time in four months,
figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed.  Even so, a Commerce Department report this week showed
orders for capital goods like computers and communications gear
climbed in August by the most in three months. Demand for all
durable goods fell, the report said.  A weak dollar has made it cheaper for trading partners to
buy American-made goods, even as mounting concern a European
default may trigger a global slowdown has raised the risk export
growth will cool. Lack of job growth in the U.S. and confidence
at recession levels are weighing on consumer demand.  St. Louis-based Emerson Electric, which designs and
manufactures electronic and electrical equipment and software,
is forecasting robust sales to China that will help offset
slower order growth at home as the economy weakens.  Overseas Demand  “I would expect us to have another good year in 2012,
relative to China,” David Farr, chairman and chief executive
officer of Emerson Electric, said on an Aug. 2 teleconference.
“These are extremely uncertain and challenging times with the
Japanese earthquake and tsunami, global material inflation,
dysfunctional governments in the U.S. and Europeans not able to
deal with the tough issues of debt and excess spending.”  Goodlettsville, Tennessee-based  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  is
among retailers preparing for slower spending.  “The macroeconomic environment has remained difficult for
consumers who continue to face high unemployment rates, high
gasoline and high food costs,” said chief executive officer
Richard Dreiling on an Aug. 30 teleconference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 