-- 
Chilean Peso Posts Biggest Loss Since Lehman on Copper Rout

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-09-30T17:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/chilean-peso-posts-biggest-loss-since-lehman-on-copper-rout.html
Chile ’s peso posted its biggest
monthly drop since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed as a
slump in copper dimmed trade prospects for the metal’s biggest
producer.  The peso sank 1.3 percent to 519.75 per U.S. dollar at
12:29 p.m.  New York  time from 512.78 yesterday, the steepest
decline among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after the Czech koruna.  The peso’s 11 percent slump this month, the biggest since
October 2008, trails the 24 percent fall in the price of copper
as commodities entered a  bear market  on concern global growth is
slowing. Copper accounts for more than half of Chile’s exports.  “The peso could fall further as the threat of a breakup of
the euro-zone moves copper lower, or if the central bank cuts
interest rates on lower growth,” Leonardo Suarez, chief
economist at Larrain Vial SA, said today in an interview in
Santiago. “All the variables point to depreciation.”  Chile’s three-month  interest-rate  swap plunged nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 5.03 percent, the lowest
level since May. The one-year swap fell 12 basis points to 4.32
percent, the lowest since January. The central bank has kept its
key interest rate unchanged at 5.25 percent for the past three
months after raising rates at five straight meetings.  Rate Expectations  Interest-rate expectations have declined this week after
central bank officials said they were prepared to act
“aggressively” to fend off an external crisis. Central bank
policy maker Rodrigo Vergara said Sept. 28 the bank has “the
tools, the will and the space to act.” His comments were echoed
yesterday by bank President Jose De Gregorio, who said policy
makers’ base case scenario that rates would remain unchanged
shouldn’t be interpreted as a commitment and that the bank was
prepared to change rates at any time.  The peso’s decline in the third quarter is 10 percent,
outpaced by a 15 percent decline in the Mexican peso and a 16
percent fall by the Brazilian real. The peso fell less than
other regional currencies earlier this quarter as local pension
funds repatriated assets from abroad, buoying the currency.  Chilean pension funds cut their dollar hedges by almost $9
billion to $15.5 billion by the end of August from $24.4 billion
at the end of May, central bank data shows.  Foreign investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
trimmed bets on the  U.S. dollar  beating the peso to $4.8 billion
on Sept. 28 from a 14-month high of $5 billion on Sept. 26,
according to central bank data.  “A large part of the explanation is copper, and a flight
to quality,” said Eugenio Cortes, head of currency forwards at
EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA. “As long as there is fear
and tension, the tendency will be for the peso to fall.”  Copper for December delivery fell 5.95 cents, or 1.8
percent, to $3.1865 a pound at 12:25 p.m. on the Comex in New
York. The metal for delivery in three months dropped 1.9 percent
on the London Metal Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  