-- 
Chile to Raise School Spending 7.2% After Months of Protests

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-09-30T12:13:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/chile-to-raise-education-spending-7-2-after-months-of-protest.html
Chile ’s government proposed a 5
percent increase in public spending and a 7.2 percent gain in
education outlays next year as it tries to end four months of
protests that have seen a quarter of a million students miss
classes and weekly battles with the police.  Total fiscal spending will exceed $60 billion next year,
President Sebastian Pinera, the billionaire investor-turned-
politician, said yesterday in a televised address. Congress has
until the end of November to approve the spending plans.  The budget, Pinera’s second as president, aims to help
reduce the cost of education for families, alleviate poverty and
fight crime, he said. Spending growth is in line with economic
growth forecasts and won’t represent a threat to the fiscal
austerity that has made Chile the only country in the Americas
that is a net creditor.  “We all want to grow faster but to go far we have to grow
on rock not sand,” he said. “The 2012 budget has been designed
especially with the needs and aspirations of our middle class
and most vulnerable sectors in mind.”  The government plans to spend $11.65 billion on education
and create a $4 billion fund for scholarships, the biggest
education outlay in Chile’s history, Pinera said.  That is unlikely to stop protests that saw thousands of
students march in downtown Santiago yesterday. In what has
become a weekly ritual, the march ended in running battles with
the police, who doused the area in teargas.  ‘Complex Meeting’  Pinera spoke minutes after student leaders and Education
Minister Felipe Bulnes met to seek an agreement on changes to
the education system.  “It was a complex meeting,” Bulnes said in comments
transmitted on national television. “We offered them different
alternatives and it wasn’t easy to agree on ways to structure
future discussions.”  Protesters want more than the government has been offering
and will continue demonstrating, student leader Camila Vallejo
said in a Sept. 28  statement .  The $4 billion education fund would be spent over four to
six years, Radio Cooperativa reported today, citing Deputy
Finance Minister Julio Dittborn.  The government doesn’t need new or higher taxes to fund the
increase in education spending, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain
said Sept. 13 in a speech in Santiago. Pinera didn’t mention
changes to the tax system yesterday.  Fiscal Surplus  Economy Minister Pablo Longueira said in an interview this
week that authorities will analyze tax changes in budgets after
2012.  “This is something we have to discuss parallel to the
budget,” he said on Sept. 27. “We need to discuss whether  tax
reform  would be aimed at redistribution, investment promotion or
expanding on ways to strengthen economic growth.”  The Pinera administration plans to post a fiscal surplus
equivalent to 1.3 percent of gross domestic product in 2011 and
shrink the structural deficit from 3 percent in 2009 to 1
percent in 2014, Larrain said. The structural target takes
cyclical swings in the economy into account.  Public spending will climb 4.6 percent this year when
taking inflation into account.  “Make no mistake: We will keep a firm handle on the
economy,” said Larrain, who next week is scheduled to provide
his GDP forecast for 2012 to Congress. “Fiscal discipline is
non-negotiable.”  Growth Outlook  The central bank estimates the economy will grow 6.25
percent to 6.75 percent this year before slowing to 4.25 percent
to 5.25 percent in 2012, according to its latest monetary policy
report.  Larrain is developing a contingency plan in case the global
economy deteriorates further that may include tapping Chile’s
$18 billion in sovereign funds, he said Sept. 22 in  Washington .  “We’d have to be really magic to grow at 6.5 percent where
the whole world is decelerating at the rate we’re seeing,” he
said in an interview on National Television last night.
“There’s an old adage: you expect the best and prepare for the
worst.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 