-- 
Chinese Students Salvage Cargo Containers in U.S. Solar-Energy Contest

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-09-30T13:14:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/chinese-students-salvage-cargo-containers-for-u-s-solar-contest.html
Hua Guodong decided to showcase
local products in the solar-powered house built by his  Shanghai 
college team for a U.S. Energy Department contest.  After all, students from Appalachian State University in
 North Carolina  used poplar-bark siding in their entry. A group
from Middlebury College installed Vermont-slate counters in
theirs.  Hua, 23, who leads a group from  Tongji University , was
inspired by the docks in Shanghai, the world’s busiest container
port, where high-rise cranes hoist steel crates onto cargo
vessels headed to America helping to deliver a record volume of
goods from China.  He designed a dwelling made of six salvaged shipping
containers -- “our native resource,” Hua said with a smile in
a Sept. 22 interview in  Washington .  The 21-member Tongji team is the first from  China  to
participate in the department’s  Solar Decathlon  since its debut
in 2002. This year’s student-designed homes, all powered by
sunlight, are on display near the  Jefferson Memorial  through
Oct. 2. The winner will be announced tomorrow.  Contestants are challenged to “integrate solar into
design” and “prove to the public that it’s doable,” Richard
King, the 25-year Energy Department veteran who came up with the
idea for the decathlon, said in an interview Sept. 21.  Dinner Party  The homes can’t be larger than 1,000 square feet and must
use commercially available appliances and solar technology. The
structures are judged in 10 classifications including water-
heating efficiency and entertainment value; each team must host
a dinner party. Hua said his group had a particular interest in
the affordability category, which requires keeping costs under
$250,000, because rising housing prices in China make it
difficult for young people to find a place to live.  Hua’s house of discards was built for $248,426, according
to a brochure his team distributed at their exhibit.  Each container stands 9.5 feet (2.9 meters) tall, 20 feet
long and 8 feet wide. The students assembled the modules in a
“Y” shape, linking two together as bedrooms, adding two more
to serve as a kitchen and bathroom, and two for a living area.  The outside decking captures rainwater and recycles it.
 Daikin Industries Ltd. (6367) , the world’s largest maker of air
conditioners, made the ventilation systems. Sanyo Electric Co.,
which is majority owned by  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , donated the 40
photovoltaic panels that provide electricity.  When the crates were originally used at the port, they may
have held computers, jeans or auto parts.  Solar Panels  Another rising export is solar panels. China shipped more
units to the U.S. in July than in all of last year, according to
 Department of Commerce  data compiled by  SolarWorld AG (SWV) , a Bonn-
based company with a plant in  Oregon .  Lawmakers and officials in President Barack Obama’s
administration have said that China’s $30 billion in aid to its
solar factories has harmed American manufacturers.  Now even the U.S. is subsidizing one small part of China’s
industry. The Energy Department gave the Tongji team $100,000 to
help pay for its model home. The agency gave the same amount to
teams from Canada, Belgium,  New Zealand  and the U.S.  In two years, it may be the turn for some American
universities to be exporters. China is teaming up with the
Energy Department to host its own Solar Decathlon in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  