-- 
China Plans to Limit Mining of Coking Coal, Journal Reports

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-30T07:38:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/china-plans-to-limit-mining-of-coking-coal-journal-reports.html
China  plans to limit the mining of
coal used in steel-making under regulations that the National
Energy Administration will issue soon, the China Securities
Journal reported, citing people that it didn’t identify.  Companies seeking government approval to explore for coal
will face more stringent criteria, while mines will be required
to boost production efficiency, the newspaper  reported , citing
the unidentified people.  China is stepping up efforts to conserve natural resources
including rare-earth metals and bauxite by clamping down on
illegal mining and curbing exports of the commodities. Domestic
prices of coking coal, a raw material in steel-making, have more
than doubled in the past six years as demand increases in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy.  “Surging prices have spurred investors to pursue coal
assets in  Inner Mongolia  and other regions,” Zhang Weifang, a
Shanghai-based analyst at researcher Mysteel.com, said by
telephone. “The new rules will probably aim to curb these
activities, rather than limit output that will cause prices to
rise further.”  Prices of hard coking coal sold by Shanxi Coking Coal Group
in China climbed to a record 1,902 yuan ($298) a metric ton as
of June 30, according to the McCloskey Group Ltd. As of the end
of last month, the prices were at 1,871 yuan a ton.  Higher global prices have also encouraged coal producers to
increase exports even as domestic shortfalls continue, Zhang
said. China, a net importer of coking coal, boosted  exports  of
the commodity to  South Korea ,  North Korea  and  Taiwan  in August
by five-fold from a month earlier to 461,489 metric tons,
according to Mysteel, citing customs data.  Power Shortages  Apart from curbs on exports, the government may also ban
the use of coking coal as fuel at power plants, said Zhang
Bochun, secretary general of the Hebei Coking & Chemical
Industry Association. Coal is used to fire about 70 percent of
the country’s power plants.  The National Energy Administration said yesterday that
electricity shortages may persist in coming months because of
reduced hydropower production.  Coking coal is more valuable than the grade used for
electricity generation. Power-station, or thermal, coal prices
at China’s Qinhuangdao port were at 835 yuan to 845 yuan a ton
as of Sept. 25, according to data from the China Coal Transport
and Distribution Association. That’s 17 percent higher than a
year earlier.  Prices have risen after some mines in Shanxi, China’s
biggest coal-producing province after Inner Mongolia, were
ordered to shut because of a fatal mining accident on Sept. 16.  Repairs to the Daqin Railway, which transports coal from
northern China to Qinhuangdao for shipping to manufacturing
centers in the south and east, are also slowing deliveries as
 power plants  build stockpiles before winter.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 