-- 
China Local Governments Can Raise Money to Repay Debt for Homes

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-30T03:36:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/china-local-governments-can-raise-money-to-repay-debt-for-homes.html
China ’s local governments can repay
debts taken on by city and provincial financing vehicles as it
encourages them to build affordable homes in cities where
housing prices are high, the central government said.  Banks can lend to financing vehicles of municipalities that
have been “cleaned up” or those that can pay back their debts
by themselves, it said in a  statement  on its website. The
companies can also sell bonds to finance the program, it said.  China plans to build 10 million units of affordable housing
this year as home price gains threaten affordability. The State
Council urged local governments to increase supply of economic
housing, a category of affordable homes, in cities where  home
prices  are “relatively high,” according to the statement.  “The reiteration of supporting affordable housing itself
says it all: top policy makers will not ease tightening policies
on the housing market any time soon,”  Li Wei , a Shanghai-based
economist for Standard Chartered Bank, said in an e-mailed reply.  New home prices climbed in all 70 cities monitored by the
government for the first time in August from a year earlier,
undercutting government efforts to cool the market.  ‘Financial Risks’  Local governments had total debts of 10.7 trillion yuan as
of last year, according to a national audit released in June.
Social housing, education and health care made up 9.5 percent of
the money used, compared to 37 percent for city infrastructure,
the audit said. A total of 42 percent of the debt is due to be
repaid this year and next year, it said.  Local governments are not allowed to give guarantees to the
financing vehicles to allow them to raise funds. In some cases
local governments had illegally used their guarantee to allow
the companies to raise money, the audit said.  “The borrowers and local governments should ensure they
pay the loans on time, to prevent financial risks and debt
risks,” today’s statement said.  County-level governments that want to invest to build
public rental homes can use the provincial government to repay
debts, and use a provincial level financing vehicle to raise
funds, it said. Loans should not be longer than 15 years, and
should be no lower than 0.9 times of the government benchmark
lending rate, it said.  -- Henry Sanderson . With assistance from Bonnie Cao in
 Shanghai . Editor: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  