-- 
China May Inject Cash to Prevent Wenzhou Crisis, ING Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-30T07:22:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/china-may-inject-cash-to-prevent-wenzhou-crisis-ing-says.html
China ’s central bank may opt to
inject more cash into banks in  Wenzhou  to ease debt stress in
the eastern Zhejiang provincial city as high inflation prevents
monetary easing, said ING Groep NV.  The People’s Bank of China “can just put bundles of cash
into trucks and drive it to Wenzhou” or selectively cut local
lenders’ reserve requirements,  Tim Condon , Singapore-based head
of Asian research at ING and a former economist at the  World
Bank , said in an interview.  Wenzhou, home to some of China’s biggest producers of
shoes, clothing, cigarette lighters and  leather goods , is seen
as a barometer of the health of the nation’s private
enterprises. Private-lending disputes in the city surged 71
percent to 5 billion yuan ($783 million) in the first eight
months of this year as small-business bankruptcies spread and
some owners fled, according to a  statement  on the government’s
website today.  The nation’s informal lending market, which may have
expanded to almost 4 trillion yuan, is the most likely short-
term “time bomb” facing the Chinese economy and can be more
abrupt and damaging than the debt burdens at local authorities,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  “It is unclear whether this ‘time bomb’ will go off, but
we believe something is likely to happen over the next 12
months,” Tao Dong, chief economist for non-Japan  Asia  at Credit
Suisse, said in a report this week. “Either Beijing takes
proactive and decisive measures to deal with the issue
beforehand, or a mini-credit crisis could occur.”  Informal Lending  China has raised interest rates three times this year and
ordered lenders to set aside a bigger portion of their deposits
to curb inflation running near a three-year high. Monetary
tightening and smaller loan quotas have led to a 50 percent
surge in informal lending this year as small businesses and
developers turned to state-owned companies, private
entrepreneurs and individuals for loans at interest rates of 6
percent to 8 percent, according to Credit Suisse.  The private lending market in Wenzhou is in a “relatively
active” period and outstanding advances totaled about 110
billion yuan, equivalent to about 20 percent of the city’s bank
loans, the Wenzhou Daily reported on July 22, citing a report by
the central bank’s local branch.  Interest rates  averaged 24.4
percent in June, compared with a range between 13 percent and 17
percent in the past eight years, according to the report.  At least 80 private business owners in Wenzhou fled this
year, the official  People’s Daily  reported today on its website,
without saying where it got the information. Three entrepreneurs
have jumped from buildings since Sept. 22 after being unable to
repay debts, leading to two deaths and one injury, the report
said.  Local bank branches should obtain more loan quotas from
their headquarters to ensure new lending this year meets the 100
billion yuan target, and lenders can’t charge more than 30
percent above the central bank’s benchmark rates, Wenzhou’s
government said in a statement dated Sept. 28.  --Zhang Dingmin. Editors: Linus Chua, James Gunsalus  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  