-- 
China’s Manufacturing Contracts for Third Month, Longest Streak Since 2009

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-30T04:48:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/china-s-manufacturing-contracts-for-third-month-purchasing-index-shows.html
A gauge of Chinese manufacturing
shrank for a third month, the longest contraction since 2009, as
measures of new orders and export demand declined.  The reading of 49.9 for the September purchasing managers’
index, released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today,
was unchanged from August and compared with a preliminary 49.4
figure published last week. The gauge was below 50, the level
that separates expansion from contraction, for eight months
through March 2009.  Government curbs on lending and the real-estate industry to
damp inflation are slowing growth in demand in the world’s
second-largest economy. A slump in global investor confidence
and heightened risks of recession in the U.S. and euro area
economies are also weighing on the outlook for exports.  Today’s data “suggests the slowdown in  China ’s
manufacturing sector is stabilizing,” said  Qu Hongbin , an
economist at HSBC in  Hong Kong . “Slowing global demand will
start to weight on growth soon, but resilient domestic
consumption and investment should prevent a sharp output
slowdown.”  Stocks in China extended their decline after the PMI data
was released. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index was 0.4
percent lower at 2,356.48 at the 11:30 a.m. break. The gauge is
set for its biggest quarterly drop since the three months
through June last year amid concerns that slowing growth in
China and overseas will hurt earnings.  Growing Risks  Releases later today may show U.S. consumer spending slowed
and German retail sales fell, increasing concern that growth in
developed economies is stalling. Industrial output in  Japan  and
 South Korea  rose less than estimated in August, reports today
showed.  The  International Monetary Fund  last week cut its forecasts
for global growth this year and next and said “downside risks
are growing” as  Europe ’s debt crisis widens. A Bloomberg survey
of global investors released yesterday showed about three-
quarters anticipate the euro region will fall into a recession
during the next 12 months.  HSBC said today that while gauges of new orders and export
orders continued to contract, they were higher than in August. A
measure of output expanded for the second month after
contracting in June and July.  Inflation Priority  Respondents to the survey said they continued to pass on
increased costs to customers, HSBC said, indicating inflationary
pressure hasn’t abated. The sub-index of input costs rose to a
four-month high and a gauge of output prices also climbed, it
said.  Policy makers including Premier  Wen Jiabao  reiterated this
month that stabilizing prices remains their top priority even as
inflation eased to 6.2 percent in August from a three-year high
in July. Increases in consumer prices have exceeded the
government’s 2011 target of about 4 percent every month.  The HSBC index reading “shows gloomy hard landing rumors
can be excluded,” said Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-based economist
at Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  A separate purchasing managers’ index due tomorrow from the
National Bureau of Statistics and the China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing will climb to 51.1 from 50.9 in August,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
13 economists. The reading hasn’t dropped below 50 since
February 2009.  ‘Good Buffer’  HSBC’s index, which surveys more than 400 companies, is
weighted toward small businesses that have been hit harder by
the government’s tightening measures, according to economists
including Bank of America Corp.’s Lu Ting and ANZ’s Liu. The
official PMI, which questions more than 800 companies in 20
industries, has a greater focus on larger enterprises, they say.  The combination of both readings “offers a balanced
outlook on  China’s economy ,” Liu said. “Companies, especially
state-owned enterprises, are showing earnings growth and this
will provide them with a good buffer to weather the global
difficulties.”  TCL Corp. (000100) , the nation’s largest publicly traded consumer-
electronics maker, forecast profit in the first nine months of
the year will rise by as much as 335 percent from a year earlier
on higher sales of televisions, smartphones and home appliances,
according to a Sept. 25 filing to the Shenzhen stock exchange.  China’s economic growth slowed to 9.5 percent in the second
quarter from the same period a year earlier, after a gain of 9.7
percent in the previous three months. HSBC’s Qu said he expects
expansion to “hold up” at around 8.5 percent to 9 percent in
the coming quarters.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  