-- 
China’s Stocks Sink Back to April 2009’s Low as Quarterly Losses Increase

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-30T08:09:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-gd-power-development-may-gain-on-stake.html
China ’s stocks fell, sending the
benchmark index to its lowest close since April 2009, on signs
growth is slowing as the government maintains measures to curb
inflation and overseas demand for exports falters.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. and Sany Heavy Industry Co. paced a
decline by construction-related stocks after a manufacturing
gauge contracted for a third month. Citic Securities Co. and
Industrial Securities Co. led a drop among brokerages on concern
share-price declines will curb trading revenue. China’s markets
will be closed next week for holidays.  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 6.12 points, or 0.3 percent, to
2,359.22 at the 3 p.m. close. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  lost 0.3 percent
to 2,581.35.  “Next quarter may see a lot of companies revising down
their earnings forecasts amid the slowdown in the economy,”
said Wu Kan, a  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co., which
oversees $285 million. “We are pretty cautious ahead of the
weeklong holiday because the risk of Europe’s debt crisis is
still there.”  The Shanghai Composite sank 15 percent this quarter, the
biggest loss since the three months to June 2010, amid concern
 Greece  will default on its debt. The index has tumbled 16
percent this year as the government raised  interest rates  and
reserve-requirement ratios for banks to cool inflation that’s at
the highest level in almost three years.  The stock measure is valued at 10.9 times estimated profit,
the lowest level on record, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Consumer Spending  Concern that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will spread and
the U.S. economic recovery is faltering has wiped out more than
$9 trillion of value from global equities this quarter, driving
investors to the relative safety of the yen, dollar and
Treasuries. Data today may show U.S. consumer spending slowed
and German retail sales fell, after industrial production in
 Japan  and  South Korea  grew less than economists had forecast.  The reading of 49.9 for the September purchasing managers’
index, released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today,
was unchanged from August and compared with a preliminary 49.4
figure published last week. Reading above 50 separates expansion
from contraction. The contraction is the longest since 2009.  A measure of 72 industrial stocks retreated 0.9 percent
today, the most among the CSI 300’s 10 groups. Anhui Conch,
China’s biggest cement maker, fell 2.6 percent to 17.20 yuan.
Tangshan Jidong Cement Co. plunged 3.3 percent to 15.96 yuan.
Sany Heavy, the biggest Chinese machinery maker, dropped 2.6
percent to 14.41 yuan.  Slowdown Forecast  More than half the global investors surveyed by Bloomberg
predict Chinese growth will slow to less than 5 percent annually
by 2016, according to results released yesterday.  Citic Securities, China’s biggest listed brokerage, slid 1
percent to 11.25 yuan. Industrial Securities fell 6.9 percent to
13.39 yuan. Everbright Securities Co. lost 2.1 percent to 12.04
yuan.  Shares worth an average 58.4 billion yuan ($9.16 billion)
changed hands on the  Shanghai Stock Exchange  every day this
month, compared with an average 122.2 billion yuan for the first
half of the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deposits at Chinese banks grew 27.5 billion yuan in July
and August, 98 percent less than a year earlier, central bank
data show. Savings at the nation’s four biggest lenders fell 420
billion yuan in the first half of September, according to the
China Securities Journal, controlled by the state-run Xinhua
news agency. Deposits haven’t fallen in a quarter since at least
1992, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bank Profits  “The slowdown in deposits will probably continue for
another year” as inflation persists, said Ye Yunyan, a Beijing-
based analyst at China Galaxy Securities Co. “If lending slows
further due to this, it’s surely going to have a negative impact
on bank profits.”  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Enforcement
Director  Robert Khuzami  said the  Department of Justice  is
reviewing allegations of accounting fraud at Chinese companies
operating out of the Asian nation, according to an interview
with Reuters.  In the past year, regulators have intensified scrutiny of
China-based companies listed on U.S. exchanges amid concern that
the firms weren’t complying with accounting standards. The SEC’s
investigation has focused on so-called reverse mergers, in which
closely held firms buy shell companies that allow them to sell
shares on exchanges without the scrutiny that would surround an
initial public offering.  China Communications Construction Co. received approval
from the China Securities Regulatory Commission to sell shares
in  Shanghai , according to a statement posted on the regulator’s
website. The nation’s biggest port builder may raise as much as
20 billion yuan, it said in a Sept. 24 statement.  Sinohydro Group Ltd. raised 13.5 billion yuan in its
initial public offering, China’s biggest this year, after
selling shares at the low end of their indicative  price range  as
the market slumped.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost,  Matthew Oakley   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  