-- 
China’s Swaps Slide Most Since 2008 as Central Bank Adds Funds

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-09-30T08:55:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/china-s-swaps-halt-gains-as-pboc-adds-funds-to-bolster-growth.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps slid
the most since 2008 this month, snapping a five-month advance,
on speculation the central bank will allow cash in the banking
system to rise to support growth as the global economy slows.  “A possible hard landing and capital outflows have become
concerns in China,”  Ju Wang , a Singapore-based strategist at
 Barclays Capital , wrote in a research note today. “This has
increased expectations that the People’s Bank of China will ease
via reserve requirement cuts.”  The central bank injected 36 billion yuan ($5.6 billion)
into financial markets this week, an 11th straight week of
inflows, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The PBOC has
raised  interest rates  five times in the past year and lifted the
amount of cash lenders must set aside as reserves six times in
2011 to a record as it seeks to temper rising consumer prices.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost paid to receive the
floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell 73 basis points, or
0.73 percentage point, this month to 3.74 percent as of 4:12
p.m. in  Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
is the first decline since March and the biggest since November
2008. It dropped eight basis points today.  China’s manufacturing industry contracted for a third month
in September, according to a report today from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics. The purchasing managers’ index of factory
output was unchanged at 49.9 and compared with a preliminary
49.4 figure published last week. The gauge was below 50, the
level that separates expansion from contraction.  ‘Hard Landing’  The economy, which grew 9.5 percent last quarter, will
expand less than 5 percent annually by 2016, according to 95
percent of respondents in a quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of
investors, analysts and traders. Twelve percent see such a
slowdown within a year, and 47 percent said it will occur in two
to five years.  China faces no risk of a “hard landing,” Lu Zhongyuan,
deputy director of the State Council Development Research
Center, said at a briefing in Beijing on Sept. 28.  The seven-day repo rate, a gauge of funding availability in
the financial system, rose eight basis points this month to 5.02
percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by
the National Interbank Funding Center. The rate fell six basis
points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Beijing at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  