-- 
Chinese Stocks in Hong Kong Cap Worst Quarterly Loss Since 1998

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-09-30T09:29:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/chinese-stocks-in-hong-kong-cap-worst-quarterly-loss-since-1998.html
A gauge of Chinese stocks traded in
Hong Kong fell, capping the biggest quarterly loss since 1998,
on signs growth is slowing amid government measures to curb
inflation and faltering overseas demand for exports.  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index, which tracks so-
called H shares, sank 3.9 percent to 8,917.36 at the 4 p.m.
local-time close, the worst performer among  Asia ’s benchmark
indexes. China National Building Material Co. tumbled 11 percent
after a gauge of manufacturing contracted for a third month.
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (1288)  dropped 8.5 percent as central
bank data showed savings were headed for the first quarterly
decline in almost 20 years.  “There’s growing worry about a sharp slowdown in growth in
China,” said  Steven Leung , director of institutional sales in
UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Since the  market
sentiment  overall is quite weak, people will only respond to
negative news.”  The H-share gauge tumbled 29 percent this quarter, the
sixth-worst performer among 95 global benchmark indexes tracked
by Bloomberg and the steepest decline since the three months to
June, 1998, when the Asian financial crisis helped send the
index 39 percent lower. Stocks have fallen as China raised
 interest rates  and reserve-requirement ratios for banks to cool
inflation that’s at the highest level in almost three years.  More than half the global investors surveyed by Bloomberg
predict Chinese growth will slow to less than 5 percent annually
by 2016, according to results released yesterday.  Hong Kong ’s
markets were closed yesterday as a typhoon battered the city.  Manufacturing Gauge  China National Building dropped 11 percent to HK$6.73,
completing a 56 percent rout since June. Anhui Conch Cement Co.,
China’s biggest cement maker, lost 8.9 percent to HK$21.60, the
lowest close since Nov. 29.  The reading of 49.9 for the September purchasing managers’
index, released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today,
was unchanged from August and compared with a preliminary 49.4
figure published last week.  Agricultural Bank tumbled 8.5 percent to HK$2.58, the most
since the stock’s debut in July last year and capping a 37
percent retreat this quarter. China Minsheng Banking Corp.
dropped 7.7 percent to HK$4.79.  Deposits at Chinese banks grew 27.5 billion yuan in July
and August, 98 percent less than a year earlier, central bank
data show. Savings at the nation’s four biggest lenders fell 420
billion yuan in the first half of September, according to the
China Securities Journal, controlled by the state-run Xinhua
news agency. Deposits haven’t fallen in a quarter since at least
1992, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Developers Drop  Asian Citrus Holdings Ltd. (ACHL)  was the biggest decliner among
stocks traded on the broader Hang Seng Composite Index. The
shares plunged 28 percent to HK$3.62, the most in almost two
years.  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd., China’s second-biggest
developer by sales, led declines among the nation’s builders in
on concerns their sales will weaken this year.  Evergrande tumbled 17 percent to HK$2.44, the biggest drop
since the shares debuted in 2009. Agile Property Holdings Ltd.
fell 14 percent to HK$5.15, the lowest since April 28, 2009.  “The traditional peak property sales season in September
failed to show strong records,” said Danny Bao, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets. “That
worried investors. Some long-term investors are even selling
off.”  Property Sales  Property transactions in September dropped 13 percent from
August, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd., China’s biggest real
estate website that tracks 20 cities. Chinese developers face an
“increasingly severe” credit outlook, which may force them to
cut prices and turn to costlier funding sources as sales weaken,
 Standard & Poor’s  said on Sept. 27.  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Enforcement
Director  Robert Khuzami  said the  Department of Justice  is
reviewing allegations of accounting fraud at Chinese companies
operating out of the Asian nation, according to an interview
with Reuters.  In the past year, regulators have intensified scrutiny of
China-based companies listed on U.S. exchanges amid concern that
the firms weren’t complying with accounting standards. The SEC’s
investigation has focused on so-called reverse mergers, in which
closely held firms buy shell companies that allow them to sell
shares on exchanges without the scrutiny that would surround an
initial public offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John McCluskey  at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net . 