-- 
China Orders Sugar Sales Amid High Stockpiles, NDRC Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-30T08:17:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/china-orders-sugar-sales-amid-high-stockpiles-ndrc-says-1-.html
China  has ordered two companies to
sell their inventories of sugar after they were found to be too
high and warned that those found hoarding will be punished.  Yangpu Nanhua Sugar Group and Guangxi Fengshan Biochemical
Co. have been found with inventories much higher than the
national average and have been instructed to sell 170,000 metric
tons of the white sweetner at no more than 7,000 yuan a ton
before Oct. 15, according to a statement on the National
Development and Reform Commission’s  website  today.  A call to the Nanning-based Nanpu Yanghua’s administrative
office was answered by someone who delined to be identified or
comment. A call to Guangxi Fengshan was not answered.  Increased domestic supply in China may damp a rally in raw
sugar in  New York , which has climbed 27 percent from this year’s
low in May on concern that production in  Brazil , which accounts
for about half of the global exports, will decline more than
forecast and on tightening supply in China. The Chinese
government has sold sugar and corn this year to damp surging
inflation.  “The government forcing these producers to sell is a
surprise to the market,” said  Wang Chen , former head of
research at Wanda Futures Co. and now trader at Ningbo Dunghe
Investment Co. “It will definitely increase the short-term
supply in China.” Sugar for spot delivery was quoted at 7,360
yuan a ton in Guangxi before the statement, Wang said.  Government Monitoring  The government will establish a database on sales by large
companies and their costs, the NDRC said. The government will
warn any company suspected of hoarding and those who refuse to
correct their actions will be punished, the statement said,
without elaborating.  Raw sugar for March delivery yesterday rose 1.57 cents, or
6.5 percent, to settle at 25.87 cents a pound on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York, the biggest gain since July 7.  Policy makers including Premier  Wen Jiabao  reiterated this
month that stabilizing prices remains their top priority even as
inflation eased to 6.2 percent in August from a three-year high
in July. Increases in consumer prices have exceeded the
government’s 2011 target of about 4 percent every month.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  