-- 
Christie Said to Be Considering Entering 2012 Republican Presidential Race

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-09-30T15:48:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/christie-said-to-be-considering-entering-2012-republican-presidential-race.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
who has said he wouldn’t run for president in 2012, is actively
considering entering the race and may make a decision within a
few days, said a Republican donor who asked not to be
identified.  The governor, 49, is being pressured by Republican leaders
and benefactors to enter the race as soon as possible, according
to the person, who said he has spoken to Christie’s inner circle
of advisers and isn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, declined to
comment.  Rick Gorka , a spokesman for the New Jersey Republican
State Committee, declined to comment.  Christie has said repeatedly that he would “have to commit
suicide” to convince people he won’t seek higher office in
2012. He came under increasing pressure to change his mind after
Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican presidential candidate,
stumbled in a Sept. 22 debate, said a Republican close to
Christie, who declined to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak for him publicly.  Christie made a national round of speeches and fundraisers
this week. He has no public schedule today.  During a Sept. 27 speech at the Reagan Presidential Library
in Simi Valley, California, Christie assailed President  Barack Obama  as a “bystander in the Oval Office.” He also spoke on
domestic and foreign policy, politics and national defense. When
asked by an audience member if he would run, Christie pointed to
video clips on the Politico website of him saying he wouldn’t be
a candidate.  Christie became a Republican star when he cut $10 billion
in projected spending, feuded with the unions representing
teachers and government workers, and required state employees to
pay more for pensions and health insurance. In 2009, he unseated
Democrat  Jon Corzine  in a race that focused primarily on voters’
dissatisfaction with taxes and the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 matannen@bloomberg.net . 