-- 
Chris Christie in His Own Words: A Year-Long Mantra of ‘I’m Not Running’

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-09-30T15:49:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/christie-in-his-own-words-year-long-mantra-of-not-running-for-president.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
is actively considering entering the race for U.S. president and
may make a decision within a few days, a Republican donor who
asked not to be identified said today. For the past year, the
49-year-old first-term Republican has turned “I’m not running”
into a near-daily mantra. Following is a sample of his denials:  Sept. 27, speaking at the Ronald Reagan Presidential
Library in Simi Valley, California:  “I’ve been succinct about this. Politico put a minute and
53 seconds of my answers strung back to back to back to back
together on the question of running for the presidency. Click on
it. Those are the answers.”  Sept. 22,  appearing  with Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels  at
 Rider University  in Lawrenceville, New Jersey:  “When I’m in a hotel room in  Des Moines  and it’s 5:30 in
the morning and it’s 15 below and it’s time for me to get up to
go shake hands at the meat-packing plant, the only one that’s
going to be in bed with me is Mary Pat, not you. So I’ll be out
there on my own. You all will be back here in  New York  or
Washington or wherever you’re from, warm in your beds, sleeping,
while I’m out there doing that.”  June 26, on NBC-TV’s  “Meet the Press:”   “The person who picked me as vice president would have to
be sedated. Seriously, forget it.”  June 23, on Fox News’s  “Your World With Neil Cavuto:”   “I don’t have the desire to do it. Nor do I think I’m
ready.”  June 15, on CNN’s  “Piers Morgan Tonight:”   “I’m 100 percent certain I’m not going to run.”  May 24, at a news conference in Trenton,  New Jersey :  “If the president’s people want to do ‘op’ research on me,
I’m sure that’s their prerogative. They won’t have a chance to
use it, though, because I’m not going to be the Republican
candidate for president or vice president in 2012.”  May 9, on Philadelphia  radio station  WPHT-AM:  “I’m a kid from Jersey who has people asking him to run
for president. I’m thrilled by it. I just don’t want to do it.”  May 3, at a town hall meeting in Manalapan, New Jersey:  “I got enough damn problems in New Jersey. My pension
system’s $54 billion in debt, my health insurance is $67 billion
in debt, the  budget deficit  last year was $11 billion, we got
some of the highest taxes in America, we got 104,000 kids in 200
failing schools, and you’re breaking my chops about gas taxes.”  April 6,  to ABC News’s  Diane Sawyer:  “You don’t make a decision to run for the president of the
 United States  based on impulse. I don’t feel ready in my heart
to be president, and unless I do, I don’t have any right
offering myself to the people of this country. It’s much too big
a job.”  March 1, in an  interview  on NationalReview.com:  “I’ve been interested in politics my whole life. I see the
opportunity. But I just don’t believe that’s why you run.”  Feb. 16, in a  speech  at the  American Enterprise Institute 
in  Washington :  “I threatened to commit suicide. I did. I said, ‘What do I
have to do, short of suicide, to convince people I’m not
running?’ Apparently I actually have to commit suicide to
convince people I’m not running.”  Nov. 24, 2010, on NBC’s “Late Night With Jimmy Fallon”
television program:  Fallon: “So, president? Out?”  Christie: “Out.”  Fallon: “Vice president?”  Christie: “Out.”  Fallon: “Come on.”  Christie: “Can you see me as anybody’s vice president?”  Fallon: “You and Sarah Palin.”  Nov. 5, 2010, at a  news conference  in Trenton, New Jersey:  “I’ve said I don’t want to. I’m not going to. There is
zero chance I will. I don’t feel like I’m ready to be president.
I don’t want to run for president. I don’t have the fire in the
belly to run for president. But, yet, everyone still thinks,
‘Well, he’s left the door open a little bit.’ Short of suicide,
I don’t really know what I’d have to do to convince you people
that I’m not running. I’m not running.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton, New  Jersey , at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 