-- 
CIA Drone Strike in Yemen Silences al-Qaeda’s Most-Effective English Voice

-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 
2011-10-01T17:56:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/cia-drone-strike-in-yemen-silences-al-qaeda-s-most-effective-english-voice.html
Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula
remains a serious terrorist threat even after the drone strike
in Yemen that killed Anwar al-Awlaki eliminated one of the
group’s most persuasive recruiters and propagandists.  While President  Barack Obama  and other U.S. officials
hailed Anwar al-Awlaki’s death yesterday as “a major blow” to
al-Qaeda, U.S. counter-terrorism officials and outside experts
said the New Mexico-born extremist wasn’t AQAP’s leader. They
said the group continues to be the greatest threat to the U.S.
and its allies outside al-Qaeda’s core and allied groups, such
as the Haqqani network, in Pakistan and Afghanistan.  “Al-Qaeda remains a threat,” White House press secretary
 Jay Carney  told reporters. “While this is an important
milestone, it is not the end of AQAP.”  The greatest threat posed by al-Awlaki and his colleague,
Samir Khan, the editor of English-language magazine  Inspire  who
was killed with him, was their ability to radicalize and recruit
disaffected young Muslims.  Using social media such as YouTube, they reached out to
young Muslims with American or European passports and
citizenship, credit cards, language skills and cultural
knowledge that make them hard for law enforcement officials to
spot.  No ‘Seasoned Operator’  Al-Awlaki “wasn’t a seasoned operator, even though they
tried to move him into that role,” said Rick “Ozzie” Nelson,
director of the homeland security and counter-terrorism program
at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington. “He wasn’t even a serious cleric or ideologue in
the Muslim world.”  “In fact, despite the tenets of conservative Islam, he was
arrested twice” in  San Diego  in 1996 and 1997 for soliciting
prostitutes, Nelson said.  Al-Awlaki was “an extraordinarily effective and proven
recruiter who had the cultural duality to persuade people to
cross the line between rhetoric and violent action,” said
Nelson in a telephone interview.  Through AQAP’s website, al-Awlaki helped inspire U.S. Army
Major Nidal Hasan to kill 13 people and wound 29 at Fort Hood,
 Texas , on Nov. 5, 2009, U.S. counter-terrorism officials said.
He also encouraged Nigerian-born Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab to
try to blow up a Northwest Airlines plane on Christmas Day 2009
with explosives hidden in his underwear, they said.  Earlier that year, they said, Abdulhakim Mujahid Muhammed,
who mounted a drive-by shooting at a military recruiting office
in  Little Rock ,  Arkansas , that killed one soldier and wounded
another, said AQAP had dispatched him. He had converted to Islam
and changed his name from Carlos Leon Bledsoe.  Under Surveillance  Al-Awlaki wasn’t a master of basic terrorist tradecraft.
That was reflected in the fact that U.S. and Yemeni intelligence
operatives kept him under surveillance for some three weeks
without being detected, that he regularly traveled between the
same two points in  Yemen  and that he and Khan were traveling
together rather than separately, said Nelson and government
officials.  Al-Awlaki’s death “will degrade the ability of al-Qaeda in
the Arabian Peninsula to recruit foreigners and to conduct
attacks against Americans,” said Katherine Zimmerman, the Yemen
analyst for Critical Threats Project of the  American Enterprise
Institute , a Washington public policy organization.  “However,” she continued in a blog posting yesterday,
“AQAP has a safe haven in Yemen that it has progressively
expanded over the course of the Arab Spring, and the
organization will not be greatly affected because Awlaki’s death
does not impact AQAP’s ability to control territory in Yemen.”  Still at Large  The announcement, she wrote, “should be heralded as
progress against al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, but it will
not prevent AQAP from attacking the  United States  and its allies
over the medium and long term.”  Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula was founded in January
2009 when Nasir al-Wuhayshi merged al-Qaeda’s affiliates in
Yemen and  Saudi Arabia . He remains at large, as does the group’s
leading bomb maker, Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri, who is believed to
have made two bombs hidden in printer cartridges that were
discovered a year ago in cargo flown from Sana’a, Yemen, to
Philadelphia and  Chicago .  Al-Awlaki’s death has deprived al-Qaeda and its affiliates
of one of their most important second-generation voices, said
Nelson of CSIS. One of Osama bin Laden’s goals, he said, was to
make al-Qaeda a self-sustaining movement. Recruiters such as al-
Awlaki, who attracted younger followers, were an important part
of that.  ‘The Media Conflict’  The operation that killed al-Awlaki and Khan also
eliminated two of the leading voices in one of the movement’s
most effective tools for reaching possible recruits, its  Inspire 
magazine. A third, American-born Adam Yahiye Gadahn, is thought
to be in  Pakistan , and Inspire promised that “an exclusive
interview” with him is “coming soon.”  In what has turned out to be his final issue of the
magazine, which appeared this month, Khan wrote at length about
“the media jihad effort” and its importance in spreading the
ideology of jihad, or in al-Qaeda’s definition of the term, holy
war against the enemies of Islam both within and outside the
faith.  “There were namely three things that the brothers focused
on in their media efforts: quality and content of the
productions, Internet security and a media dissemination
strategy,” Khan wrote. “While America was focused on battling
our mujahiddin in the mountains of Afghanistan and the streets
of  Iraq , the jihadi media and its supporters were in fifth
gear.”  Targeted Killings  The use of an unmanned drone in this case -- especially
coming on the Muslim holy day -- may provide fuel for the
jihadists’ media efforts and also raises questions about the
legality of killing American citizens without judicial process.  The American Civil Liberties Union yesterday charged that
“the targeted killing violates both U.S. and international
law.”  In a statement, ACLU deputy legal director Jameel Jaffer
called the campaign “a program under which American citizens
far from the battlefield can be executed without judicial
process, and on the basis of standards and evidence that are
kept secret not just from the public but from the courts.”  ‘Enemy Belligerent’  Charlie Dunlap, a visiting professor of law at Duke
University Law School and a former judge advocate general of the
U.S. Air Force, said yesterday, “If a U.S. citizen overseas
presents an imminent threat, or is a participant in an organized
armed group engaged in armed conflict against the U.S., as the
administration seems to be alleging is the case with al-Awlaki,
the mere fact that he may also be accused of criminal offenses
does not necessarily give him sanctuary from being lawfully
attacked overseas as any other enemy belligerent might be.”  The  Justice Department  wrote a memorandum authorizing the
killing of al-Awlaki, following a review by senior
administration lawyers of the legal issues involved, the
 Washington  Post reported, citing unidentified administration
officials.  The newspaper cited the officials as saying there was no
dissent about the legality of killing al-Awlaki. Justice
Department spokeswoman Tracy Schmaler and White House spokesman
Tommy Vietor declined to comment on the memorandum.  Delaying Tactic  In a paper published this week by the Council on Foreign
Relations in  New York ,  Gregory Johnsen , a Near East scholar at
 Princeton University  in  New Jersey , writes that increased air
and drone strikes are at best “a delaying tactic designed to
keep AQAP off-balance until the Yemeni military can act.
Airpower alone is not enough to defeat AQAP.”  While they have depleted the ranks of al-Qaeda’s leadership
in  Afghanistan , Pakistan, Yemen and elsewhere, drone strikes and
military special operations may distract the U.S. and its allies
from broader and less dramatic efforts to eliminate the
conditions of poverty, corruption and alienation that helped al-
Awlaki and Khan make new converts to their gospel of violence.  “These are not ends; these are means,” said Nelson of
CSIS. “We are not going to get where we want to be without also
eliminating the narrative spun by people like Awlaki that
appeals to a disaffected generation of young Muslims.”  At a press conference yesterday in Sana’a, the Yemeni
capital, United Nations envoy Jamal Benomar said the violence
and bloodshed in the country, of which the anti-terrorism
campaign is just part, isn’t a solution.  “It is no longer acceptable that violence continues and it
is not acceptable to remain silent towards the confiscation of
the rights of Yemenis in a decent life, their demands in change
and democracy, state of law and equality,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  