-- 
CLO Market Would Weather a Default by Greece, Wells Fargo Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-09-30T12:40:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/clo-market-would-weather-a-default-by-greece-wells-fargo-says.html
Collateralized loan obligations
will be able to weather an economic slowdown and there’s
unlikely to be a flood of sales even if  Greece  defaults,
according to analysts at Wells Fargo & Co.  European banks are more likely to use CLOs as security for
loans from central banks or foreign lenders should the financial
crisis deteriorate, analysts led by  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based David Preston wrote in a research note yesterday. Lenders
in the region hold as much as $100 billion of top-rated CLOs, or
about 50 percent to 70 percent of all triple A issuance,
according to the report.  “We believe CLOs have exhibited resilience through the
financial crisis, and that while a recession may push prices
down, CLOs should be able to withstand a slowdown,”
according to the report. “This is not to discard the
possibility that European banks may take a more measured
approach to their CLO holdings and slowly sell them over the
next two to three years” as they need to raise capital, the
analysts wrote.  Global markets have been roiled by  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis that has already forced Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland to
seek international bailouts. The government in  Athens  is
struggling to meet the conditions of a deficit-cutting program
to ensure it gets its latest emergency loan of 8 billion euros
($11 billion) and avoids the euro-region’s first national
default.  Attracting Buyers  CLOs will be resilient because the corporate default rate
is likely to stay low for the next 12 months and sales would
drive spreads wider, attracting buyers, according to the
analysts. AA rated notes offer the best value while junior-
ranked mezzanine tranches will be attractive to investors who
aren’t worried about short-term price movements, they wrote.  “Insurance companies, U.S. banks and even high-grade
accounts will likely re-enter the sector should prices drop
substantially,” according to the report.  Spreads have widened this year, with BB rated tranches of
U.S. CLOs climbing to about 1,300 basis points, from about 900
at the end of June and AA portions at 450 basis points from
about 300, according to Wells Fargo. Top-rated super-senior CLO
spreads jumped to 175 basis points from 150.  CLOs package high-yield loans into securities of varying
risk and return, including equity portions designed to absorb
losses first and protect holders of top-rated bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  