-- 
Colleges Must Keep Focus on Books in Football Realignment: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-30T00:00:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/colleges-must-keep-focus-on-books-in-football-realignment-view.html
This weekend, most college football
teams begin playing their conference rivals, presenting some of
the most riveting matchups in sports. Also this weekend, the
presidents of  Big East  universities  will meet  in  Washington  --
wondering whether their conference will continue to exist.  A frenzied reshuffling of conference alignments is under
way among college football programs, with worrisome implications
for the balance of sports and academics at the nation’s schools.  The  Big 12  has lost  Texas A&M  to the  Southeastern
Conference , the University of  Nebraska  to the  Big 10  and
 Colorado  to the  Pacific 12 ; Pittsburgh and Syracuse have
followed a stampede from the  Big East  to the  Atlantic Coast
Conference ; and several other big schools, including Texas and
 Oklahoma , are weighing their options. Some pundits see college
football moving inexorably toward four 16-team
“superconferences,” with any school not preemptively moving
finding itself left in the cold.  The most immediate result of this process is that the
current conference lineup is unstable, leading the weaker
vestiges of the ailing conferences to consider increasingly
desperate and illogical alignments. (Baylor -- of Waco,  Texas  --
is  reportedly  considering the Big East, while Texas Christian
has already joined it.)  A Mixed Outlook  The longer-term outlook is mixed. For top football schools,
a superconference arrangement looks wondrous financially -- the
more teams in a conference, the more leverage to negotiate
television deals and the more opportunities to show off packed
stadiums to potential sports and scholastic recruits across the
country.  But for smaller and less athletically focused schools, the
economics are not so certain. They would probably see increased
TV revenue in a superconference. But travel costs would rise
steeply as student-athletes journeyed across country to play
their conference opponents. The arms race for coaches’ salaries,
support staff and high-tech facilities would only accelerate.  Many of these teams would probably see their game-day
attendance, TV audience and merchandise sales diminish when it
became clear they couldn’t compete -- year after boring year --
with the bigger schools in their superconference. And as the
regional rivalries these schools built up over decades under the
old conference system wither and die, so too would excitement
and fan loyalty.  Student-athletes, always an afterthought, will face more
demanding schedules, more time out of class and no added
compensation for their sacrifices. And other sports, even
popular basketball programs, may be dragged along to new
conferences through football’s economic might.  Presidents’ Role  Still, some form of realignment, however haphazard, looks
inevitable. The  National Collegiate Athletic Association ,
ostensibly the governing body of college sports, won’t enter the
fray, afraid of antitrust liabilities.  That leaves college presidents, who should have assumed a
more active role in managing athletics long ago. They can take a
few steps now to impose sanity on whatever conference system is
eventually hammered out -- and, more important, to ensure that
sports and academics remain firmly and lastingly connected.  First, if schools are going to operate vast  commercial
enterprises  blessed with tax advantages conferred by their
educational mission, they need to become far more transparent
and detailed about what they spend on athletic programs. They
should publicly divulge exactly how much money they receive from
television deals, sponsorships and other means of profiting off
their putatively amateur players.  Universities should publish much clearer figures about how
their academic and sports-related budgets are growing than
they’re now required to. And, as Charles T. Clotfelter of  Duke
University  writes, donations to booster clubs that support
athletic programs  should no longer  be tax-deductible.  Then there’s the “student” side of the student-athlete
equation. The  Knight Commission , a nonprofit group that
advocates for the educational mission of college sports, has
recommended that a proportion of revenue from football and
basketball be directed into a fund and then dispersed to schools
according to their rate of academic success. This seems wise.  The terms of athletic scholarships should no longer be
limited to one year, which allows schools to cut support for
players who become injured or whose prowess declines. Finally,
when recruiting infractions occur, the most serious punishments
should fall not on players, but on the coaches and athletic
directors who bear ultimate responsibility for the direction and
character of a sports program.  College athletics hold a deservedly special place in
American culture. But institutes of higher learning have a
responsibility to more than the bottom line -- they must also
educate and treat fairly the students who so thrill the rest of
us on game day.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 