-- 
Colombia Keeps 4.5% Rate to Gauge Effect of Europe Crisis

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-10-01T00:10:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/colombia-may-keep-4-5-rate-to-gauge-effect-of-europe-crisis.html
Colombia ’s policy makers kept
borrowing costs unchanged for a second straight month and ended
a dollar-purchase program as slowing inflation gives them leeway
to gauge the impact of the European debt crisis on global
growth.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
kept the overnight rate at 4.50 percent today, matching the
forecasts of all 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We have this balance of a weaker world economy, and a
Colombian economy that is the same, or even stronger than we
thought it would be,” Uribe told reporters in Bogota after
announcing the board’s decision. “Therefore, we thought it
appropriate to leave rates unchanged.” He said that there is a
“high probability” that the economy will expand 4.5 percent to
6.5 percent in 2011.  Policy makers voted unanimously last month to leave the key
lending rate unchanged for the first time in seven months,
noting uncertainty about the “size and duration” of a
worldwide slowdown, according to minutes of the meeting
published Sept. 2.  Brazil  last month followed  Turkey  in lowering
 interest rates  as policy makers seek to shield their economy
from the European debt crisis.  “The international environment has deteriorated in the
weeks after the last Board,” the central bank said in a
statement on its website. “Concerns about sovereign debt
problems have grown and growth forecasts in the U.S. and  Europe 
in 2011 and 2012 have been revised downwards.”  Peso  In addition to voting to pause again, Banco de la Republica
ended a program of purchasing a minimum of $20 million daily
after a rout in global markets wiped out the peso’s gains this
year. Instead, the bank will begin buying and selling dollars in
auctions to curb the peso’s volatility.  The bank will auction $200 million in the  spot market  when
the currency moves more than 2 percent above or below its 10-day
moving average, the bank said in a statement today.  The bank said the measure was a response to “extreme
volatility” in financial markets.  The peso fell 0.8 percent to 1,931.98 per dollar today from
1,917.65 yesterday. In the year to date, it has weakened 1.3
percent, the eighth-best performance against the dollar among 25
emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Since mid-July, the peso has declined 9 percent, the 11th-
worst performance against the dollar among the 25 emerging
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. In the region, Brazil’s
real has lost 16 percent in that period, the worst performer
among the 25 emerging market currencies.  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry has indicated a peso
about 1,900 is near its equilibrium level.  Rate Horizon, Growth  Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos , who asked the
central bank to refrain from raising rates further after
consumer prices unexpectedly fell in August, met with business
representatives this week to discuss measures to guard the $288
billion economy from a possible global recession.  Still, a majority of Colombian analysts forecast policy
makers will raise their key rate by 50 basis points to 5 percent
by year-end, according to a central bank survey published Sept.
13. None of the 38 economists surveyed expect a rate cut this
year.  ‘Good” Pace  Latin America ’s fifth-largest economy is expanding at a
“good” pace amid strong domestic demand and increased lending,
the central bankers noted in a statement accompanying last
month’s decision. In July, they raised their forecast for
Colombia’s growth this year to as high as 6.5 percent.  Gross domestic product rose 5.2 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, according to a Sept. 22 government
report, the second-fastest pace in three years.  Retail sales surged 11.8 percent in July, for a 15th
straight month of double-digit growth. That’s its longest run in
a decade.  The urban  unemployment rate  in August fell to 10.4 percent,
matching the November 2008 level, the statistics agency reported
today.  Annual inflation quickened to 3.42 percent in July, the
fastest since June 2009, before slowing to 3.27 percent in
August. The central bank targets inflation of 2 percent to 4
percent this year.  “Leading indicators including bank lending and retail
sales show demand remains strong,” said Francisco Chaves, an
analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Corredores Asociados SA, who
forecasts the key rate will be raised to 5 percent by year-end.
“If you continue with an expansive rate under these conditions,
you risk fueling inflation.”  Uribe today said that credit growth has “stabilized at a
high level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ; 