-- 
Commodities Record Biggest Quarterly Drop Since 2008 on Economic Turmoil

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-09-30T21:41:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/commodities-advance-paring-quarterly-decline-after-german-vote-on-fund.html
Commodities posted the biggest
quarterly drop since the end of 2008 as bearish data on
economies in Europe and  China  added to concerns that the world
will tilt into another recession.  This month, European inflation quickened to the fastest
since October 2008 amid the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.
German retail sales in August fell the most in more than four
years. A gauge of Chinese manufacturing shrank for the straight
third month, the longest contraction since 2009.  A “deadly combination” of economic indicators show the
U.S. is heading for a recession,  Lakshman Achuthan  of the
Economic Cycle Research Institute said today. Prices for energy,
metals and crops tumbled in September as fiscal woes in  Greece 
mounted, driving worldwide equities lower. In September, corn
had the biggest monthly slump since at least 1959, and silver
tumbled the most since 1980.  “The demand outlook doesn’t look too good with these
global concerns in terms of the commodity markets,”  Boyd Cruel ,
a senior analyst at Vision Financial Markets in Chicago, said in
a telephone interview.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials fell
2.6 percent to close at 591 at 3:46 p.m.  New York  time. This
quarter, the gauge dropped 11 percent. In September, the measure
slumped 12 percent, the most since November 2008. Today, grains
led the decline as U.S. supplies reported in the latest
government data topped estimates by analysts.  ‘Wildfire’  “You have wildfire among the leading indicators across the
board” with “non-financial services plunging, manufacturing
plunging, exports plunging,” Achuthan, the chief operations
officer at the Economic Cycle Research Institute in New York,
said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom
Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  Silver and copper led the monthly commodity declines. Only
livestock prices recorded gains among the GSCI components in
September. Gold futures posted a record 12th straight quarterly
gain, partly on demand for an alternative to equities and
currencies.  “For the next couple months, we believe the European debt
crisis will still be weighing on all the risky assets,” Danske
Bank A/S analyst Christin Tuxen said in an interview with
Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.” “Gold
will still be a safe haven in this respect.”  The GSCI has slumped 22 percent since reaching a 32-month
high on April 11.  “We believe markets will be held hostage by growth
concerns for the rest of this year,” HSBC Bank Plc analysts led
by Fredrik Nerbrand said in a report. They recommended reducing
positions in industrial metals, oil and agriculture, while
buying more gold.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in  Chicago  at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net . 