-- 
Consumer Spending, Wage Gains in U.S. Probably Slowed in August

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-30T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/consumer-spending-wage-gains-in-u-s-probably-slowed-as-hiring-stagnated.html
Consumer spending  in the U.S.
probably slowed in August as growing pessimism and a lack of
jobs restrained the biggest part of the economy, economists said
before a report today.  Purchases rose 0.2 percent after a 0.8 percent gain in
July, according to the median estimate of 81 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. The figures are also projected to show
incomes rose 0.1 percent, the smallest increase in nine months.  Little hiring, stagnant wages and a plunge in stocks have
shaken confidence in the recovery that began two years ago,
which may hurt sales at retailers like Best Buy Co. and Target
Corp. The sputtering economy has prompted policy makers from
President  Barack Obama  to the  Federal Reserve  to take additional
action in a bid to prevent another recession.  “Without payrolls picking up, you’re not going to get any
boost in economic activity,” said  Rudy Narvas , an economist at
 Societe Generale  in  New York . “People are very worried about
the economy.”  The Commerce Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ forecasts for spending ranged from a 0.2
percent decrease to a 0.4 percent gain.  Other reports today may show businesses kept expanding in
September and consumer sentiment held near a three-year low. The
Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s activity index
eased to 55 this month from 56.5 in August, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed. Readings greater than 50
signal growth.  Confidence Languishes  The University of Michigan’s final confidence index for the
month was probably 57.8, unchanged from a preliminary reading
issued two weeks ago and up from August’s 55.7, the lowest since
November 2008.  Employment was unchanged last month, the worst reading
since September 2010, and the jobless rate held at 9.1 percent,
the Labor Department said Sept. 2. The report also showed
average hourly earnings fell for the first time in more than
three years, further stressing consumers’ incomes.  Another Labor Department report this month showed the cost
of living in the U.S., as measured by the consumer-price index,
rose 0.4 percent in August, indicating that inflation may
account for much of last month’s spending gain. Figures used to
adjust consumer spending for price increases will also be
released in today’s report.  Retail sales, an earlier gauge of household spending,
stagnated in August, the Commerce Department said Sept. 14.
Retailers like Best Buy and Target said battered  consumer
confidence  has strained demand.  Having to Choose  “The consumer is making very measured choices,” Best Buy
Chief Executive Officer Brian Dunn said in a telephone interview
on Sept. 13 after the Richfield, Minnesota-based company
reported a 30 percent decline in second-quarter profit . “I
don’t think it’s a year where someone is going to buy a TV and a
tablet and a new smartphone and go to Disneyland.”  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index slumped last week to
the second-lowest level on record, according to the report
released yesterday. The comfort gauge reached similar readings
of minus 53 three times in the first half of 2009, when the
economy was in the recession. It fell to its all-time low of
minus 54 in November 2008 and January 2009.  Confidence has been partly sacked by weakness in stock
market. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has lost 12 percent
since the end of June.  Auto Sales  The drop in wealth may be restraining purchases of big
ticket items like automobiles. Vehicle sales ran at a 12.1
million seasonally adjusted annual rate in August, Autodata
Corp. said Sept. 1, down 100,000 cars from the prior month.
Demand this year may not reach the 13 million that was the low
end of  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s range of estimates, Chief Financial
Officer  Lewis Booth  said Sept. 9.  Obama has been traveling the country this week to promote
his $447 billion job creation plan. Speaking in Denver on Sept.
27, the president said the nation needs to reset its priorities
to assure future growth.  Fed officials announced a plan last week to replace some
notes in their portfolio with longer-term Treasuries to further
reduce borrowing costs.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  