-- 
Consumer Spending, Wages, Cooled in August

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-30T15:30:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/consumer-spending-in-u-s-slowed-in-august-as-incomes-unexpectedly-dropped.html
Consumer spending slowed in August
as incomes dropped for the first time in almost two years,
showing scarce jobs are preventing the  U.S. economy  from gaining
ground.  Purchases rose 0.2 percent after a 0.7 percent increase the
prior month, and earnings decreased 0.1 percent, according to
Commerce Department figures today in  Washington . Other reports
indicated business activity unexpectedly accelerated this month,
while consumer sentiment held near an almost three-year low.  Little hiring, stagnant wages and a plunge in stocks have
shaken confidence in the recovery that began two years ago,
which may hurt sales at retailers like Best Buy Co. and  Target
Corp. (TGT)  The sputtering economy has prompted policy makers from
President  Barack Obama  to the  Federal Reserve  to take additional
action in a bid to prevent another recession.  “Consumer spending is still obviously quite weak,” said
 Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
 New York . “Income looks pretty weak and that needs to turn
around if we’re going to see growth improve. The economy is
holding in,” he said. “It’s hard to say it’s accelerating, but
it’s not contracting either.”  Stocks fell, extending the biggest quarterly drop since
2008 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after reports from
 China  and  Germany  fueled concerns the global economy is slowing.
The  S&P 500  dropped 1 percent to 1,149.01 at 11:29 a.m. in New
York.  Treasury securities  rose, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down to 1.94 percent from 2 percent late
yesterday.  Surprise Acceleration  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer rose to 60.4 this month from 56.5 in
August. A level of 50 is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction. Economists forecast the gauge would drop to 55,
according to the median  estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Manufacturers like  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)  are counting on
growing sales to China and other emerging countries to buffer
them from slowing domestic demand. While announcing more
unconventional measures to boost growth, the Fed last week said
U.S. business investment continued to expand.  “There is still lingering support from exports,” said
 Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez
Inc. in New York. “These regional surveys can be very volatile.
Some of it in recent months is the automotive rebound.”  Also today, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
final index of consumer sentiment climbed to 59.4 this month
from a reading of 55.7 in August that was the lowest since
November 2008.  Survey Results  The gain in  consumer spending  last month matched the median
estimate of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Projections
ranged from decreases of 0.2 percent to increases of 0.4
percent. The Commerce Department revised the July spending
figure from a previously reported 0.8 percent gain.  Income dropped for the first time since October 2009.
Economists forecast earnings would rise 0.1 percent, according
to the Bloomberg survey. Wages and salaries dropped 0.2 percent
last month, the first decrease since November.  The loss of income forced American households to tap into
their nest eggs to sustain spending. The savings rate dropped to
4.5 percent in August, the lowest level since December 2009,
from 4.7 percent the prior month.  The report’s price index rose 0.2 percent in August from
the prior month, showing the gain in so-called nominal spending
was wiped away after taking inflation into account.  Inflation Measures  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel costs, rose 0.1 percent in August from the prior month, the
smallest increase since March and less than the 0.2 percent
median forecast of economists surveyed. It was up 1.6 percent
over the past 12 months, the same as in July.  Employment was unchanged last month, the worst reading
since September 2010, and the jobless rate held at 9.1 percent,
the Labor Department said Sept. 2. The report also showed
average hourly earnings fell for the first time in more than
three years, further stressing consumers’ incomes.  Retailers like Best Buy and Target said battered  consumer
confidence  has strained demand.  “The consumer is making very measured choices,” Best Buy
Chief Executive Officer Brian Dunn said in a telephone interview
on Sept. 13 after the Richfield, Minnesota-based company
reported a 30 percent decline in second-quarter profit . “I
don’t think it’s a year where someone is going to buy a TV and a
tablet and a new smartphone and go to Disneyland.”  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index slumped last week to
the second-lowest level on record, according to the report
released yesterday. The comfort gauge reached similar readings
of minus 53 three times in the first half of 2009, when the
economy was in the recession. It fell to its all-time low of
minus 54 in November 2008 and January 2009.  Stocks Tumble  Confidence has been partly sacked by weakness in stock
market. The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  in September is heading toward its
fifth monthly loss, the longest falling streak since March 2008.  Obama has been traveling the country this week to promote
his $447 billion job creation plan. Speaking in Denver on Sept.
27, the president said the nation needs to reset its priorities
to assure future growth.  Fed officials announced a plan last week to replace some
notes in their portfolio with longer-term Treasuries to further
reduce borrowing costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  