-- 
Credit Agricole Cuts Fewer Assets Than Rivals on Funding Outlook

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-09-30T07:41:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/credit-agricole-cuts-fewer-assets-than-rivals-on-funding-outlook.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s third-
largest bank by market value, is cutting fewer assets to reduce
its balance sheet than larger French rivals as the lender is
less vulnerable to the dearth of U.S. dollar funding.  Credit Agricole , hurt by its unprofitable Greek consumer-
banking unit, earlier this week joined BNP Paribas SA and
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, France’s two biggest banks, in announcing
measures to trim its balance sheet.  The firms acted after concerns about their sovereign-debt
holdings made U.S. dollar money-market funds reluctant to lend
to European banks. At the end of 2010, France’s three largest
lenders had at least 500 billion euros ($680 billion) of short-
term and interbank funding rolling over within three months or
less, according to a  Barclays Capital  note dated Sept. 7.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  and Societe Generale earlier this month
announced steps to cut about 300 billion euros, or 10 percent,
off their balance sheets. Credit Agricole is trimming less than
2 percent of its balance sheet as an increase in deposits will
probably reduce the financing needs at the consumer-banking
business, analysts estimated.  “This isn’t a lot, but it’s because Credit Agricole has
less dollar financing needs compared with BNP Paribas and
Societe Generale,” said Christophe Nijdam, a Paris-based
analyst at AlphaValue. “Globally, regarding their short-term
dollar needs, the announced asset reductions should do it.”  ‘Fine-Tuning’  Paris-based Credit Agricole said Sept. 28 it plans to
reduce financing needs by as much as 52 billion euros, including
between 15 billion euros and 18 billion euros at its corporate-
and investment-banking unit and 21 billion euros to 23 billion
euros at its consumer-banking business. It also plans to cut the
specialized financial-services refinancing requirements by 9
billion euros to 11 billion euros.  “This is fine-tuning,” said Alex Koagne, an analyst at
Natixis SA in Paris. At the investment-banking division, “there
is a reduction of the balance sheet’s size, but at the
specialized financial-services and at the retail banking
networks they’re not cutting assets, they’re varying financing
sources,” he said.  Credit Agricole spokeswoman Anne-Sophie Gentil declined to
comment on analysts’ estimates for asset reductions.  Dollar Funding  The lender is trimming its balance sheet by about 30
billion euros, with the reduction coming mostly from the
corporate- and investment-banking division, AlphaValue’s Nijdam
estimated.  The company has 29 billion euros of short-term dollar
funding, about half that of BNP Paribas and Societe Generale,
company data show. Credit Agricole’s financing from U.S money-
market funds is at 6 billion euros, compared with 36 billion
euros at BNP Paribas.  U.S. money-market mutual funds reduced lending to European
banks last month,  Fitch Ratings  said last week. The 10 biggest
U.S. funds eligible to purchase corporate debt, with a combined
$676 billion, reduced European bank assets to 42 percent of
holdings, the lowest level since at least 2006, Fitch said Sept.
23.  Credit Agricole’s dollar cash liabilities are “a small
share” of the bank’s total balance sheet, the company said on
its website dated Sept. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 