-- 
Crude Oil Heads for Its Biggest Quarterly Decline in New York Since 2008

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-30T12:58:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/crude-oil-heads-for-its-biggest-quarterly-decline-in-new-york-since-2008.html
Oil fell, heading for its largest
quarterly decline in  New York  since the 2008 financial crisis,
as signs of slowing growth in China, the U.S. and Germany
heightened concerns that fuel demand will suffer.  West Texas Intermediate futures have fallen 15 percent this
quarter, the biggest drop since the three months ended Dec. 31,
2008. Chinese manufacturing fell for a third month, according to
data from HSBC Holdings Plc, while Germany’s Federal Statistics
office said retail sales declined the most in more than four
months in August. U.S. consumer spending slowed in August as
incomes declined, the Commerce Department said today. WTI’s
discount to Brent oil narrowed for a sixth day, the longest
streak since March 2010.  “There is a risk of slowdown in Chinese demand,” said
 Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt , who forecasts Brent prices at $100 in the next
quarter. “The risks to the forecast in the fourth quarter and
for 2012 as a whole are to the downside.”  Crude for November delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell as much as $1.59, or 1.9 percent, to $80.55 a
barrel and was at $80.64 at 1:52 p.m.  London  time. WTI is down
9.2 percent this month.  Brent oil for November settlement fell $1.57 to $102.38 a
barrel on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London. Prices are
down 9 percent this quarter.  Brent Spread  Brent’s premium to WTI futures narrowed to $21.74 a barrel
from $21.81 at settlement yesterday. The spread climbed to a
record of $26.87 on Sept. 6 as fighting in  Libya  reduced the
availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density and
sulfur content. Libya is now producing 300,000 barrels a day of
oil, said Ali Tarhouni, the official in charge of the North
African nation’s finance and oil ministries, speaking to
reporters in Tripoli yesterday.  Oil may fall next week on concern that Europe’s economy is
showing signs of a slowdown as governments struggle to contain
their fiscal crisis and avert a Greek default, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Thirteen of 28 analysts, or 46 percent,
forecast oil will decline through Oct. 7, while eight
respondents, or 29 percent, predicted prices will increase.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will meet French
President Nicolas Sarkozy today in Paris after seeing European
Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  in Warsaw. European leaders
next week will discuss a permanent rescue fund after German
lawmakers approved an expansion of the temporary European
Financial Stability Facility.  Spending Slows  Consumer spending  in the U.S. slowed in August as incomes
unexpectedly dropped for the first time in almost two years,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .
Purchases rose 0.2 percent after a 0.7 percent increase the
prior month.  German retail sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal
swings, slumped 2.9 from July, when they rose 0.3 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
had forecast a 0.5 percent decline, according to the median of
18 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  A gauge of manufacturing in China, which consumes about a
tenth of the world’s oil, shrank for a third month, the longest
contraction since 2009. The reading of 49.9 for the September
purchasing managers’ index, released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics today, was unchanged from August and compared
with a preliminary 49.4 figure published last week.  China  is the
world’s second largest crude consumer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  