-- 
Crude Oil Declines to One-Year Low to Finish  Worst Quarter Since 2008

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-09-30T21:06:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/crude-oil-in-new-york-heads-for-worst-quarter-since-2008-on-economic-data.html
Oil capped the largest quarterly
drop since the 2008 financial crisis by tumbling to a one-year
low as signs of slowing growth in  China , the U.S. and  Germany 
heightened concern that fuel demand will weaken.  Futures dropped 3.6 percent after China’s purchasing
managers’ index fell for a third month while German retail sales
declined in August and U.S. consumer spending slowed. Prices
tumbled 17 percent from the end of June, the biggest quarterly
decline since the 56 percent plunge during the last three months
of 2008.  “The Chinese PMI and the German retail sales numbers are
what started the ball rolling down and then personal income
pushed it further,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker
at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “We’ve had some
pretty disappointing economic data.”  Crude oil for November delivery fell $2.94 to $79.20 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Sept. 29, 2010. Futures dropped 11 percent this
month, the biggest decline since May 2010, and lost 0.8 percent
this week.  Brent oil for November settlement fell $1.19, or 1.1
percent, to settle at $102.76 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London . Prices are down 8.6 percent this quarter, 11
percent this month and 1.2 percent this week.  A gauge of manufacturing in China, the world’s fastest-
growing oil consumer, shrank for a third month, the longest
contraction since 2009. The reading of 49.9 for the September
purchasing managers’ index, released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics today, was unchanged from August and compared
with a preliminary 49.4 figure published last week.  China is the world’s second-biggest oil user, trailing only
the U.S.  Chinese Slowdown Risk  Consumer spending  in the U.S. slowed in August as incomes
unexpectedly dropped for the first time in almost two years,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .
Purchases rose 0.2 percent after a 0.7 percent increase the
prior month.  “There is a risk of slowdown in Chinese demand,” said
 Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt , who forecasts Brent prices at $100 in the next
quarter. “The risks to the forecast in the fourth quarter and
for 2012 as a whole are to the downside.”  German retail sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal
swings, slumped 2.9 percent from July, when they rose 0.3
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists had forecast a 0.5 percent decline, according to the
median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Fuel Demand  “There are increasing signs that we are tipping into
recession and that’s playing into a weaker demand outlook,”
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-
based hedge fund that focuses on energy.  Total products supplied averaged over four weeks, a measure
of fuel demand, fell 0.6 percent in the period ended Sept. 23 to
19 million barrels a day, the lowest level since July, the
Energy Department reported this week.  Oil pared losses in intraday trading after the Institute
for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today that its U.S.
business barometer rose to 60.4 this month from 56.5 in August.
Economists forecast the gauge would drop to 55, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Oil may fall next week on concern that  Europe ’s economy is
showing signs of a slowdown as governments struggle to contain
their fiscal crisis and avert a Greek default, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Thirteen of 28 analysts, or 46 percent,
forecast oil will decline through Oct. 7, while eight
respondents, or 29 percent, predicted prices will increase.  Economic Outlook  “The underlying message is that the economy will remain
weak in the long term,” said  Michael Lynch , president of
Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “In the short term, the market is going to react
on every headline out of Europe on the debt crisis and every bit
of economic data here in the U.S.”  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  met French President
Nicolas Sarkozy today in Paris after seeing European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy  in Warsaw. Papandreou said after the
talks that  Greece  was making sacrifices to uphold its
commitments and thanked Sarkozy for his support. Next week
European leaders will discuss a permanent rescue fund after
German lawmakers approved an expansion of the temporary European
Financial Stability Facility.  OPEC Output  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ oil
output in September rose to the highest level since November
2008, as a Saudi cut was outpaced by Iraqi and Libyan gains, a
Bloomberg News survey showed. Production increased 75,000
barrels, or 0.3 percent, to average 30.055 million barrels a
day, according to the survey of  oil companies , producers and
analysts.  The euro tumbled 1.5 percent to $1.3392 at 4:31 p.m. in  New
York . A weaker euro and stronger dollar curbs the appeal of
commodities as an alternative investment. The European currency
has tumbled 7.7 percent since the end of June, poised for the
worst quarter since the period ended in June 2010.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 622,091
contracts as of 4:31 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 591,868
contracts yesterday, 9.8 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.4 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  