-- 
Czech Central Bank Sees Risk to Lower Interest Rates, Inflation

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-09-30T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/czech-central-bank-sees-risk-to-lower-interest-rates-inflation.html
The Czech central bank sees risks
to its forecast tilted “slightly” toward slower inflation and
“significantly” to lower  interest rates , according to minutes
from the most recent policy meeting on Sept. 22.  Fiscal austerity abroad may hurt demand for Czech exports
and weaken economic growth, the central bank said in the
minutes. The weaker-than-expected koruna represented an upside
risk to inflation, according to the minutes.  The Czech National Bank’s board on Sept. 22 voted 7-0 to
leave the benchmark rate at a record-low 0.75 percent, half of
the  European Central Bank ’s main rate, and signaled it may ease
policy as the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis worsens the
economic outlook and intensified downside inflation risks.  “The main anti-inflationary risks were slightly toward
lower inflation and significantly toward lower interest rates,”
the minutes said. “The external situation represented a
downside risk to inflation” as austerity measures in developed
economies “might have a negative effect on economic growth,”
they said.  The development of the German economy is of “primary
relevance” to the outlook abroad, the central bank said.  “The stimulation of German domestic consumption currently
under discussion might have a negative effect on Czech exports,
which are tied more to German exports than to consumption,”
according to the minutes. “The problems of the southern euro-
area countries might reduce demand for German exports.”
Policy makers noted that the effect of these trade flows “was
not all that strong” and that account should be taken rather of
the possibility of financial market contagion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  