-- 
Dallas Stars, L.A. Dodgers Make Delaware Home Court for Sport Bankruptcies

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-09-30T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/dallas-stars-l-a-dodgers-make-delaware-home-court-for-sport-bankruptcies.html
Dallas  Stars attorney Martin A. Sosland spurned  Texas  courts when he put the hockey team into
bankruptcy this month, partly because of the way the Texas
Rangers baseball club was treated by a hometown judge.  The day the Rangers entered Chapter 11 protection in May
2010, Sosland, the team’s attorney, sought permission to quickly
pay small creditors such as hot dog and beer suppliers, who were
owed less than $3.5 million. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Michael Lynn
in  Fort Worth , Texas, rejected the request and creditors had to
wait months until the team was sold at auction for $593 million,
court papers show.  This time, Sosland opted for the bankruptcy court in
 Delaware , more than 1,400 miles (2,250 kilometers) from the
Stars’ offices in Frisco, Texas. The day after the team’s Sept.
15 filing, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Peter Walsh took just minutes
to approve immediate payment to vendors owed about $1.1 million.
Walsh approved a plan to sell the Stars less than a week later.  “Some courts don’t grant those motions,” said Sosland,
who works in Dallas for New York-based Weil Gotshal & Manges
LLP, of the request to pay vendors. Typically, creditors of a
bankrupt company must wait until the company’s reorganization
plan is approved to be repaid.  That flexibility has helped to make Delaware’s bankruptcy
bench in Wilmington, long popular with failing companies, the
favored refuge of cash-strapped professional sports teams. Three
of the last four U.S. major league teams to enter bankruptcy --
the Stars and Major League Baseball’s Los Angeles Dodgers and
 Chicago Cubs  -- filed in Delaware.  ‘In and Out’  “For the Stars, it looks like they want to get in and out
as quickly as possible and Delaware is typically the best place
to do that,”  Evan Flaschen , a bankruptcy attorney in
 Connecticut  with law firm Bracewell & Giuliani LLP, said in an
interview. “The owners of the Dodgers and the Cubs may have
been reluctant to be exposed to their hometown press and rabid
fans every single day.”  Under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, companies can file in any
federal court district where they do business or are
incorporated. Dallas Stars LP, while it has no operations in
Delaware, is legally incorporated in the state, along with more
than half of the 500 biggest U.S. companies listed in  Fortune
magazine ’s annual ranking.  There are 94 U.S. bankruptcy courts, including one in  Guam 
and another in the Virgin Islands. Since 1980, about one-third
of all large public companies that filed for bankruptcy did so
in the Delaware court, according to a database maintained by
 Lynn LoPucki , a law professor at the University of  California ,
 Los Angeles .  Cubs Sale  The Stars were preceded in bankruptcy by the Dodgers in
June and the Cubs in 2009. The Cubs went to Delaware because
that was where the team’s former owner, Tribune Co., filed its
own Chapter 11 case in 2008, said Brian Krakauer, the team’s
lead bankruptcy attorney.  Tribune, a Chicago-based newspaper publisher, was burdened
by debt from a 2007 leveraged buyout led by real-estate
billionaire  Sam Zell . After Tribune worked out a deal to sell
control of the Cubs, the team entered court protection to
complete the deal and exited within days.  The Dodgers filed to reorganize after baseball Commissioner
Bud Selig rejected owner Frank McCourt’s proposed television
deal with News Corp.’s Fox Sports. The Dodgers are seeking to
sell TV rights at auction while in bankruptcy. Selig says
McCourt should be forced to sell the team.  The Dodgers’ lead bankruptcy attorney, Bruce Bennett of law
firm Dewey & Leboeuf LLP, declined to comment on why the team
chose to file in Delaware rather than California.  ‘Fire Drill’  Delaware offers advantages to companies, or sports teams,
looking for court protection, said Samuel J. Gerdano, executive
director of the American Bankruptcy Institute. The group’s
13,000 members include lawyers and financial advisers who
specialize in corporate reorganizations.  Judges in Delaware and its main rival for bankruptcy
business,  New York , handle so many large Chapter 11 cases that
they know how to avoid getting bogged down in legal wrangling,
especially in the early days, when a company needs quick
approval to keep the lights on, pay employees and satisfy
vendors, Gerdano said.  “The Delaware  bankruptcy court  is widely respected and
regarded as one of the top two venues for complicated Chapter 11
matters,” Gerdano said in a telephone interview. “It’s not a
fire drill for them.”  Chapter 11 refers to the part of the bankruptcy code that
allows companies to cut debt, reorganize and continue operating.  Sabres, Coyotes  Including the Stars, at least seven major league
professional franchises have filed U.S. bankruptcies since 1998,
four from the National Hockey League and the three baseball
teams. In addition, the NHL’s Ottawa Senators sought protection
in  Canada  in 2003.  The NHL’s Buffalo Sabres filed the same year in Buffalo,
New York, after owner Adelphia Communications Corp. entered
bankruptcy. The Phoenix Coyotes followed in 2009 in Phoenix. The
Pittsburgh Penguins filed in Pittsburgh in 1998.  Robert Sable, a bankruptcy attorney who helped guide the
Penguins through Chapter 11, said sports teams face burdens most
companies don’t when they file for bankruptcy at home. Angry
fans may pack the courtroom, and local judges may be influenced
by the team’s impact on the community, he said.  “There is a great deal of interest and people are charmed
by celebrity,” Sable said.  ‘Not Leaving’  In the Penguins’ and Coyotes’ cases, bankruptcy judges
rejected sales to bidders who sought to move the teams.  “The judge in the Penguins case said, ‘This team is not
leaving Pittsburgh,’” Sable said. Filing in another city
“might have opened up the possibility of a sale” to a buyer
who wanted to move the team, fetching a higher price, he said.  The Pittsburgh court eventually approved a sale to a group
that promised to keep the team in town, led by former all-star
hockey player Mario Lemieux. The NHL ended up buying the Coyotes
and is seeking a new owner that will keep the team in  Arizona .  The Stars’ auction is set for Nov. 21. Team owner  Thomas Hicks  previously sold the Rangers and his stake in the U.K.’s
Liverpool Football Club. Hicks, who fell off the  Forbes list  of
billionaires in 2010, invested cash and loans valued at about
$150 million in the Stars, according to court records.  Stars Auction  Under a plan approved by the Stars’ major lenders, the team
will be sold at an auction with an initial bid of about $150
million by Vancouver-based businessman Tom Gaglardi.  Chuck Greenberg , former co-owner of the Rangers, has said through his
attorneys that he will also bid for the team.  For Gerdano, the lesson is clear: “If you are looking to
do something that might be viewed as a hostile act locally, you
might want to find another venue.”  The Delaware cases are In re  Dallas Stars  LLP, 11-12935,
The Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010, and Tribune, CNLBC, LLC,
09-13496  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 