-- 
Debt Firms Play ‘Whack-a-Mole’ Using Lawyers to Skirt Fee Ban

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-09-30T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/debt-firms-play-whack-a-mole-to-skirt-fee-ban.html
Debt-settlement companies that
offer to negotiate with creditors on behalf of consumers are
switching tactics to skirt rules banning up-front fees by
working with lawyers and charging retainers.  “It’s like playing whack-a-mole,” said Suzanne
Martindale, a San Francisco-based staff attorney for  Consumers
Union . “We do expect we’ll continue to see more businesses
cropping up trying to exploit loopholes.”  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission in October 2010 barred
debt-settlement companies that use telemarketing from accepting
up-front fees. The rule stemmed from complaints about practices
that included charging thousands of dollars in fees on promises
to reduce consumer debt and never delivering, according to a
2010 report by the U.S. Government Accountability Office.  The ban doesn’t always apply to legal retainers, so to get
around the restriction, debt-settlement firms are affiliating
with lawyers to charge initial fees of as much as $7,000 or
more. Settlement firms generally only work with credit-card and
other unsecured debt, meaning debt not backed by assets such as
a home or car.  U.S. consumers had about $792 billion in outstanding
revolving debt in July, according to Federal Reserve data.
That’s down from a high of more than $970 billion in 2008 and
equates to almost $16,000 in debt on average for households that
carry a balance, according to CreditCards.com.  No Contact  “They operate under the illusion of there being lawyers
involved, although in fact you will probably never speak to
one,” said Lisa Madigan, attorney general of  Illinois .  Madigan filed a civil complaint against Legal Helpers Debt
Resolution LLC alleging the firm’s clients often never meet or
speak with an attorney, and that the firm engaged in a number of
deceptive business practices including implying that their
services were offered by a U.S. government program. The
complaint was filed March 2 in the Seventh Judicial Circuit
Court in Sangamon County. Legal Helpers filed a motion to
dismiss the case in July.  Legal Helpers’ clients who ask to speak with an attorney
have always been able to speak with one, said Jason Searns,
general counsel for the firm. Before October the firm did no
direct marketing and only bought client referrals from outside
vendors, meaning Legal Helpers couldn’t have engaged in
deceptive marketing, he said. The court hasn’t ruled on
Madigan’s allegations.  When customers enroll in a debt-settlement program, they’re
usually told to stop making minimum payments to creditors and
instead to pay into a trust or escrow account. Once that account
has accumulated enough money, the firm negotiates with creditors
to try to settle in cash for an amount less than the consumer’s
outstanding debt.  Fees Accrue  The problem with charging up-front fees is that all of a
consumer’s monthly payments may go toward the settlement firm’s
charges first, meaning customers may not accumulate a positive
balance in their accounts for months after starting a program,
according to critics such as Martindale of Consumers Union.  Customers may continue to accrue late fees or interest in
addition to possible negative marks on their credit reports, and
may still be sued by creditors after enrolling in a program,
said William Binzel, corporate secretary for the National
Foundation for Credit Counseling, a Washington-based network of
nonprofit credit-counseling agencies.  “I think a consumer goes into a debt settlement thinking
‘At last, I’ll solve the problem,’ only to find out nine or 10
months down the road that while they’ve been paying into this
account they’re actually deeper in debt, and may be subject to
being sued by creditors,” Binzel said.  Complaints Against Firms  The Better Business Bureau has received almost 2,500
complaints about debt-relief firms this year, according to
Katherine Hutt, a spokeswoman. The bureau started tracking the
debt-relief services industry as a separate category in 2010 in
response to a “significant increase” in the number of
complaints it received about the companies, she said.  The FTC has made no specific exemption for attorneys, said
Joel Winston, associate director of the division of financial
practices for the Washington-based agency.  “To the extent that there are firms who think that somehow
the claim ‘I’m providing legal services’ exempts them from the
rule, they’re mistaken,” he said. Winston declined to say
whether all so-called “attorney-model” firms are violating the
fee ban. He said the FTC had not brought any enforcement actions
against firms for violating the up-front fee ban.  No Licensing  There are no federal licensing requirements for debt-
settlement companies. Most firms are closely held and many
operate as multiple legal entities, meaning it can be difficult
to get an accurate estimate of the total number of companies and
the size and nature of their businesses, said Martindale of
Consumers Union, a nonprofit consumer advocacy group and the
publisher of Consumer Reports magazine.  “It remains a very opaque industry,” she said.  There are about 200 to 300 debt-settlement firms in the
U.S., according to estimates from Andrew Housser, an executive
board member with the American Fair Credit Council, a lobbying
and membership group for debt-settlement companies.  In the past two years, attorney-model firms, or ones
affiliated with lawyers, have become a majority, said Amy Clark
Kleinpeter, an Austin, Texas-based attorney who represents
consumers against debt-settlement firms.  “Most seem to have converted relatively easily,” she
said.  Some also have started meeting with clients face-to-face
when signing documents, because the FTC rule was directed at
telemarketers, and may not cover agreements made in person,
Housser said.  Craigslist Ad  In at least one instance, Morgan Drexen, a legal-services
firm that contracts with lawyers and is involved with
negotiating settlements on behalf of those attorneys’ clients,
may have advertised employment for attorneys licensed in
specific jurisdictions on the classifieds website of Craigslist
Inc., according to a complaint against the firm filed by Darrell McGraw,  West Virginia ’s attorney general, on May 20 in the
Circuit Court of Kanawha County.  According to McGraw’s complaint, Morgan Drexen employees do
all debt-settlement work for clients themselves, and the
attorneys it works with only “rent” their bar licenses and
firm names to the company. Morgan Drexen denied the allegations,
and said it provides administrative support to attorneys and
that the attorneys it works with are responsible for handling
settlements, according to the firm’s answer to the complaint.  The company said it would pay one lawyer in West Virginia a
monthly fee of $500 for the first 300 West Virginia clients she
served and $2 for every additional client, according to a copy
of the attorney’s contract with Morgan Drexen.  ‘Personal Services’  “Legal services are personal services, they’re not
commodities that can be bought and sold like a bag of coffee
beans,” said  Douglas Davis , assistant attorney general for West
Virginia. No judgment has been entered in the case, according to
the clerk’s office.  Some firms began shifting to an attorney model before the
FTC rule took effect because of loopholes for lawyers in state
laws, said Scott Johnson, chief executive officer of USDR Inc.,
a settlement firm. Morgan Drexen has operated under its current
business model since the company’s inception in 2007, according
to the company’s assistant general counsel Erich Schiefelbine.  Illinois passed a law banning up-front fees by settlement
companies in 2010 that didn’t cover retainers for lawyers
providing similar services. Minnesota in 2009 passed a law
limiting startup and overall fees for debt-settlement firms and
creating licensing requirements that also has an exemption for
lawyers.  Nevada  in 2009 passed a law requiring registration and
limiting setup and monthly fees that exempts legal services
provided in an attorney-client relationship.  Plan Costs  Legal Helpers has been a debt-resolution law firm since
2009, according to Searns. The firm charges 15 percent of a
customer’s debt over the first 18 months to cover the costs of
the settlement plan, Searns said. It also charges a $900 “legal
flat fee” over the first six months to nine months to cover
attorney representation if a customer is sued by creditors, he
said.  The firm has about 12,000 clients and represents about $500
million in debt. That’s an average debt of almost $42,000 per
client, Searns said, and would equate to up-front fees of
$7,150.  The FTC fee rule shouldn’t apply to Legal Helpers because
its lawyers and paralegals meet with clients face-to-face,
meaning their activities are not governed by the telemarketing
rule, and because it provides comprehensive legal services to
clients, Searns said.  ‘Point of Contact’  Thomas Ballance, 55, who is disabled and lives in  New York ,
was earning $761 a month in Supplemental Security Income and had
no other assets in 2009 when he enrolled with the United Law
Group Inc., an affiliate of Morgan Drexen at the time, for debt-
settlement services, according to Anamaria Segura, an attorney
at MFY Legal Services Inc., who has worked with Ballance. His
credit-card debt was more than $30,000 when he enrolled in the
settlement program.  “Because Morgan Drexen will be your initial point of
contact, we request that you direct all further questions to
your Client Coordinator,” said a copy of a Morgan Drexen letter
to Ballance from February 2009.  Ballance agreed to pay $1,788 to the United Law Group as an
engagement fee, according to the attorney-client agreement.
Supplemental Security Income is exempt from collections, meaning
Ballance’s creditors could not have garnished his income, said
Segura. Ballance hasn’t filed a claim against United Law Group,
she said. The United Law Group’s website is now listed as an
unregistered domain and the firm’s phone number has been
disconnected.  Rule Compliance  The attorneys Morgan Drexen works with are complying with
FTC rules and don’t charge up-front fees for settlement
services, said Jeffrey Katz, general counsel for the  Costa Mesa ,
California-based firm.  Debt-settlement clients who enrolled with the Williamson
 Law Firm  LLC, an affiliate of Morgan Drexen, after the FTC rule
took effect paid “engagement fees” of as much as $3,250 in
some cases, according to Morgan Drexen files obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The Williamson Law Firm doesn’t charge a retainer for debt-
settlement clients, said Lawrence Williamson, principal partner
for the Kansas City, Missouri-based firm. Bankruptcy clients of
the firm pay engagement fees, and some bankruptcy services may
include settling debts, he said.  Debt-settlement companies may be subject to examination by
the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as part of the
agency’s nonbank supervision program, according to Jen Howard,
spokeswoman for the agency, which launched in July. The agency
is studying the issue and must determine it by a rule, she said.  Membership Plummeted  Trade groups say their membership has plummeted since the
FTC rule took effect. Membership in the United States
Organizations for Bankruptcy Alternatives has declined to about
30 firms from more than 200, according to Executive Director
Jenna Keehnen. The American Fair Credit Council, formerly called
the Association of Settlement Companies, has fallen to about 35
firms from about 220 firms, Housser said.  Both groups require that members comply with the FTC rule
and only charge so-called “performance-based” fees, meaning
fees that are assessed only after a debt is settled.  “They haven’t left the industry, they’ve left the trade
associations because they don’t want to abide by a performance-
based service fee,” said USDR’s Johnson.  The Illinois case is People v. Legal Helpers Debt
Resolution LLC, 11-00286, Illinois Circuit Court for the Seventh
Judicial Circuit (Sangamon County); The West Virginia case is
State of West Virginia v. Morgan Drexen, 11-00829, West Virginia
Circuit Court (Kanawha County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 