-- 
Denmark to Provide Banks $72.6B Lifeline

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-09-30T10:29:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/denmark-to-provide-banks-72-6b-lifeline.html
Denmark ’s central bank said it will
provide as much as 400 billion kroner ($72.6 billion) as part of
an extended collateral program to provide emergency liquidity to
the country’s banks.  Lenders will also be able to borrow liquidity for six
months, alongside the central bank’s existing seven-day
facility, at a rate that tracks the benchmark lending rate,
currently 1.55 percent, the bank said in a statement today.  “It’s very positive,” said Thomas Hovard, chief corporate
bond analyst at Danske Securities in Copenhagen, a unit of
Danske Bank A/S, in a phone interview. “It’s quite cheap and it
will provide a significant amount. The price for the six-month
facility is the same price as for the seven-day facility, so
it’s a flat yield curve. A lot of banks will utilize this.”  The country’s lenders face a deepening crisis that
threatens to stall a recovery in Scandinavia’s worst-performing
economy. Two Danish  bank failures  this year triggered senior
creditor losses, leaving international funding markets closed to
all but the largest banks. Lawmaker efforts to spur a wave of
consolidation and help banks sidestep Denmark’s bail-in rules
have so far failed.  “The expanded program is designed to supplement financial
institutions’ access to taking loans and thereby build a bridge
to a situation without state guarantees, when these expire in
2012 and 2013,” central bank Governor Nils Bernstein said in
the statement.  Stock Move  Danish financial stocks outperformed their European peers.
Denmark’s banks lost 1.2 percent, versus a 3 percent slump in
the 46-member Bloomberg index of European banks as of 11:46 a.m.
in Copenhagen. Danske Bank, Denmark’s biggest lender, gained as
much as 1.6 percent, before trading 1 percent lower at 79.75
kroner. The difference between Copenhagen’s interbank offered
rate and the equivalent euro rate tightened the most in at least
a year, with Cibor quoted 18 basis points lower than Euribor.  Denmark’s liquidity lifeline mirrors programs in the euro
area, where the  European Central Bank  has been pumping cash into
the region’s money markets, including dollar liquidity, to
support lenders.  The Danish central bank’s program is “broadly consistent
with what the ECB has been doing,” Nick Anderson, a London-
based senior analyst at Berenberg Bank, said by phone. “This
was all about smaller banks. It’s clearly helpful.”  Refinancing Debt  The central bank is boosting its liquidity support to help
lenders stay afloat as they struggle to refinance 158 billion
kroner in debt backed by a state guarantee that expires over the
next two years. The central bank’s pricing means “people will
dare to use it,” Hovard said. “ There will be no
stigmatization from using the facility. It’s so cheap that even
the strong banks will consider using it.”  Still, the head of the country’s bank resolution unit, the
Financial Stability Company, said the emergency facility may not
be enough to prevent further insolvencies.  The program “will probably not solve all problems,”
Henrik Bjerre-Nielsen, director at the Financial Stability
Company, said in an interview before the plan was announced.
“The kind of financing you can get by borrowing against your
high quality loans at the central bank is not medium-term
financing. And medium-term financing is crucial for having a
proper financing strategy.”  Dumping Assets  Banks are cutting lending and dumping assets as they
struggle to refinance loans coming due. About 75 of Denmark’s 90
local banks probably need to either be bought or wound down,
Financial Stability Company Chairman Henning Kruse Petersen said
in an interview this month.  Mergers are being hindered by skepticism amongst Denmark’s
healthier banks about what may be lurking on the balance sheets
of their troubled peers, according to Ulrik Noedgaard, the
director general at the Financial Supervisory Authority.  Some banks have purchased assets from their failed peers.
Jyske Bank A/S, Denmark’s second-biggest listed bank, today said
it bought parts of Fjordbank Mors A/S, which failed in June
after losing money on loans to real estate and farming.  The healthy parts of Amagerbanken A/S, which failed in
February, were bought by Faroese BankNordik P/F in May. The
Torshavn, Faroe Islands-based bank was downgraded this month by
Moody’s Investors Service, which said the purchase added risk.  Refinancing Debt  FIH Erhvervsbank A/S, the largest holder of state-
guaranteed bonds, according to Financial Stability, probably
will tap the liquidity lifeline, Chief Executive Officer Bjarne Graven Larsen said in an interview before the program was
announced. The bank holds about 45 billion kroner in state-
backed bonds, after repaying about 5 billion kroner this week.  The central bank today didn’t specify how long the program
will run. In August, the bank said the facility will last
“until further notice.”  Banks will be allowed to include central bank cash from the
program in their liquid assets to meet liquidity requirements,
the FSA said in a statement today.  “For banks that are very dependent on the central bank’s
lending facility, we will place emphasis on their efforts to
achieve sustainable funding,” the FSA said on its website.  The new facility will be opened monthly, with the first
offering on Oct. 28, the bank said. Banks will be able to pledge
as collateral the remaining balance of loans as well as 90
percent of agreed overdrafts less any set-off and a 3 percent
haircut on loans and overdrafts denominated in euros, the bank
said. The collateral value is then calculated as the amount
arrived at by using this calculation, minus a 25 percent haircut
and a margin of 10 percent.  Banks using the facility need to pledge so-called top-up
collateral if the value of the loan portfolio falls by more than
5 percent. Banks can’t use credit given to other financial
institutions as loans for this facility, the central bank said. 