-- 
Dodgers’ Bankruptcy Judge Sets Date for Team’s Fight With League Over Sale

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-10-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/dodgers-bankruptcy-judge-sets-date-for-team-s-fight-with-league-over-sale.html
A judge overseeing the bankruptcy of
the Los Angeles Dodgers ordered team owner  Frank McCourt  and
Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  to testify about their fight
over whether McCourt should be forced to sell the club.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross set Oct. 31 as the start
of a hearing to decide between two futures for the franchise:
one in which McCourt keeps the team and sells the rights to
televise its games, or is forced to sell one of the most storied
clubs in  Major League Baseball .  “There is no middle ground,” Gross said in his scheduling
order, filed yesterday in Wilmington,  Delaware , where the
hearing will take place.  The team filed bankruptcy in June after Selig refused to
approve a new television contract that McCourt had negotiated
with the current broadcaster,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports.  Fox opposes McCourt’s proposal to hold an auction for the
television rights, claiming it has an exclusive right to
negotiate an extension of its current contract until 2012. The
company’s television rights end after the 2013 baseball season.  Fox will be able to participate in the hearing, Gross said.  Gross said that he will consider how McCourt has managed
the Dodgers, including whether the team has breached the bylaws
of MLB, as well as Selig’s relationship with McCourt.  McCourt’s conduct and whether Selig has acted in good faith
in dealing with the Dodgers will be one of the main focuses of
the hearing, Gross said.  Selig asked Gross to let his office file a reorganization
plan that would result in a sale of the team. For several
months, McCourt and Selig have traded allegations about each
other’s motives in court and in statements to the media.  Baseball’s Interest  Selig has accused McCourt of putting his interest ahead of
the club’s and of violating MLB rules designed to benefit all
teams. Selig has said it is in the best interest of baseball for
McCourt to sell the team.  McCourt claims Selig is treating him more harshly than
other owners.  “The  Los Angeles Dodgers  look forward to this hearing,”
the team said in an e-mailed statement. “As previously stated,
the debtor views its motion as best serving to maximize the
value of its estate to the benefit of all stakeholders.”  Pat Courtney, an MLB spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
call or e-mail seeking comment on yesterday’s order.  The bankruptcy case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-
12010,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  