-- 
ECB Said to Reduce Government Bond Purchases Amid Lower Yields

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-09-30T14:08:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/ecb-said-to-reduce-government-bond-purchases-amid-lower-yields.html
The  European Central Bank  scaled
back government bond purchases this week as officials stepped up
efforts to combat the region’s debt crisis and yields retreated,
said three people who deal with the central bank.  The ECB hasn’t bought any European securities in the past
four days, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the trades are confidential. An ECB spokesman declined
to comment today on any bond buying. The Frankfurt-based central
bank said on Sept. 26 that it settled 3.95 billion euros ($5.31
billion) of debt  purchases  in the week through Sept. 23, down
from 9.79 billion euros the previous week.  The central bank has been buying the bonds of the region’s
most indebted nations in secondary markets this year to keep
borrowing costs from surging amid the region’s debt crisis.
Policy makers are increasingly split over the best way to fight
the crisis. Juergen Stark said on Sept. 9 that he will resign
from the ECB’s Executive Board in protest of the purchases.  “There’s an element of needing to save firepower for when
it’s really needed,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “It’s partly
a reflection of a number of council members being resistant to
the idea” of buying bonds, he said.  Spain ’s 10-year yields slid seven basis points this week to
5.14 percent at 3:05 p.m. in London, after surging to a euro-era
record 6.455 percent on Aug. 2. Italian 10-year rates fell eight
basis points in the five days to 5.55 percent. They climbed to a
euro-era high 6.397 percent on Aug. 5.  The ECB resumed its bond-purchase program on Aug. 4, buying
the debt of Irish and Portuguese governments, people familiar
with the transactions said then. The Frankfurt-based central
bank began the program in May 2010 after markets in the region
were rocked by the debt crisis.  Apart from some activity on Sept. 26, nothing has been seen
from the ECB this week, one of the three people said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in  London  at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  