-- 
Ecuador Says Correa Not Accusing U.S. of Aiding ‘Corrupt’ Police

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-09-30T17:27:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/ecuador-says-correa-not-accusing-u-s-of-aiding-corrupt-police.html
Ecuador ’s government said
newspapers distorted and took out of context comments by
President  Rafael Correa  that the U.S. has financed corrupt
police forces in the South American nation.  Quito-based newspaper Diario Hoy reported yesterday that
Correa accused the U.S. of funding police forces in Ecuador,
citing an interview he gave to Venezuela-based Telesur network.  “There is a group that is still very bad, very corrupt,
that wants to return to the past, financed by the government of
the  United States , and this we won’t permit,” Correa said,
according to a transcript of the yesterday’s interview broadcast
by Telesur and reproduced in a statement by Ecuador’s Production
Ministry.  In the same interview, Correa said he had no evidence that
the U.S. was involved in a police uprising against his
government a year ago and that his relations with the vast
majority of the nation’s forces are excellent. Those comments
were not included in the story published by Diario Hoy.  The Production Ministry said in an e-mailed statement today
that the national and international media “distorted” and took
out of context Correa’s comments to Telesur.  The president’s comments came as the U.S. and Ecuador are
trying to patch up relations after Correa in April expelled the
previous American ambassador to  Quito , Heather Hodges, over a
State Department cable published by anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks
alleging corruption in the country’s police force.  Three weeks ago, the two nations nominated new ambassadors.
Adam Namm is awaiting confirmation by the Senate to become the
next ambassador while Nathalie Cely, who is currently Production
Minister, will be Correa’s next envoy to  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  