-- 
Hedge Fund Must Pay Wachovia $2.1 Million Over Swap Dispute

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-09-30T21:54:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/hedge-fund-must-pay-wachovia-2-1-million-over-swap-dispute.html
An Isle of Jersey-registered hedge
fund was ordered to pay Wachovia Corp., the bank now owned by
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , $2.1 million in a dispute over a credit-
default swap.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in Manhattan
determined in an order yesterday the amount VCG Special
Opportunities Master Fund Ltd. must pay after ruling in
Wachovia’s favor last year. Swain had also ruled against VCG’s
claims that the bank cheated it by forcing it to make higher
margin payments than necessary on the swap.  The court “grants Wachovia’s motion for an award of the
full amount of its claimed damages, attorneys’ fees and
expenses,” Swain wrote yesterday.  Swain had ruled last year that Wachovia’s calculation of
its exposure to a collateralized-debt obligation the swap
covered didn’t violate “good faith and fair dealing” by
determining VCG owed more in collateral than the swap’s $10
million value.  The $2.1 million includes $1.02 million Wachovia was owed,
$1.03 million in legal fees, and interest, Swain said.  Steven Mintz, a lawyer for VCG at  Mintz & Gold LLP , didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on the decision.  Sold Protection  Wachovia and VCG, controlled by  Delray Beach , Florida-based
Vanquish Capital Group, entered into the swap in May 2007. VCG
sold protection against a default by a collateralized-debt
obligation in exchange for an annual premium payment of
2.75 percent of the swap’s face value.  CDOs repackage bonds and other assets into new securities.
Neither Wachovia nor the hedge fund owned the CDO.  Wachovia told VCG it wouldn’t have to post margin beyond
the initial $750,000 unless the underlying collateral defaulted,
the hedge fund said in court papers. Instead, Wachovia demanded
another $320,000 a few weeks after the initial payment and a
total of $8.92 million over five months, according to VCG’s
amended complaint filed in 2008 in  Manhattan  federal court.  VCG, formerly called CDO Plus Master Fund Ltd., sued rather
than pay a further demand of $550,000, arguing it would push its
payments to more than $10 million.  Swain found that under the deal’s terms, the total amount
of collateral the hedge fund could owe was the initial $750,000
plus the $10 million face value.  The hedge fund never offered any evidence to dispute the
valuation, the judge said.  Credit-default swaps are financial instruments used to
speculate on a borrower’s creditworthiness or to hedge against
losses. The contracts pay the buyer face value for the
underlying securities if the company fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The case is CDO Plus Master Fund Ltd. v. Wachovia Bank, 07-
11078, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn , New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 