-- 
Medvedev Defends Putin’s Return as President, Cites Obama-Clinton Rivalry

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-09-30T16:06:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/medvedev-says-putin-running-for-president-as-most-authoritative-leader.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
defended backing Prime Minister Vladimir Putin last week,
likening it to then-presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s
endorsement of  Barack Obama  after a 16-month campaign in 2008.  “Can we imagine such a situation when Barack Obama would
compete with Hillary Clinton?” Medvedev said in an interview
with the country’s three biggest television channels, according
to a transcript e-mailed by the Kremlin. “They are both from
the  Democratic Party  and they took a decision based on who can
bring the best result. We too made such a decision.”  Medvedev, 46, had never held an elected post before Putin
picked the younger man as his successor after serving the legal
limit of two consecutive terms. Medvedev agreed Sept. 24 to swap
places with Putin after March presidential elections as part of
an arrangement his predecessor said was made “several years
ago.”  Clinton and Obama each won about 18 million votes in a
cross-country competition in caucuses and primaries in 2008.
Obama clinched the nomination on June 3, and Clinton soon after
pledged to support him. Obama defeated his Republican rival  John McCain  in November that year.  ‘Tough Competition’  “Everybody knows there was a tough competition between
Obama and  Hillary Clinton ,” said  Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst at
the Council on Foreign and Defense Policy in Moscow. “This is
the whole point of politics. There was nothing like this in
Russia”  Medvedev, who was asked by Putin to lead the ruling  United
Russia ’s party list into December parliamentary elections, said
he was prepared to lead the government should the party perform
well in the Dec. 4 vote. The president said today that he won’t
conduct a “separate” election campaign to maintain focus on
his work as head of state.  “People have to judge the president and the government by
what they have done,” Medvedev said. “If they think that the
authorities have stumbled off course, they will vote
differently. That is also democracy.”  Medvedev, a former corporate lawyer, said political
continuity is needed even as he promised “a serious
renovation” of the government.  ‘Pear Tree’  “You cannot shake the government as if it were a pear
tree,” Medvedev said, adding that the Cabinet will be
“drastically renewed” if he is put in charge.  Medvedev fired Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin four days ago
after the country’s second-longest serving minister criticized
the president for allocating 2.1 trillion rubles ($65 billion)
in additional defense spending through 2014 and creating further
risks for the nation’s economy.  Kudrin’s departure is simply a case of “state discipline,
nothing more,” Medvedev said.  Medvedev defended the country’s electoral process, saying
the choice is made by the people. “Any public figure can let an
election slip away, together with his political movement,” he
said.  The president stepped aside in Putin’s favor because he was
swayed by his predecessor’s higher popularity. The prime
minister is “the most authoritative politician in our country
and his rating is somewhat higher,” Medvedev said, adding that
the two leaders share views on “most strategic issues” and
represent “one and the same political force.”  Putin, Stalin  Putin, 58, who was president from 2000 to 2008, may
potentially rule for another two six-year terms and become the
country’s longest-serving leader since  Josef Stalin .  Medvedev’s approval rating fell to the lowest level on
record last month, dropping to 42 percent, 3 percentage points
behind Putin, according to a poll released by the Public Opinion
Foundation.  Russia averaged 7 percent growth a year during Putin’s
presidency. Gross domestic product grew 4 percent last year
after tumbling a record 7.8 percent in 2009, the country’s worst
recession on record.  The prior agreement with Putin about which of them will run
for president in 2012 was contingent on people’s “electoral
preferences changing for some reason,” Medvedev said today. He
didn’t publicly rule out another bid for himself in the months
before the United Russia congress because “life could have
taken a most unexpected turn.”  Medvedev’s comments show his failure as a politician,
 Nikolai Petrov , a political analyst at the Carnegie Center in
Moscow, said by phone.  “It’s hard to be an actor sitting on a throne and
assuming the symbols of power which in fact he does not have,”
Petrov said. “He was not a politician and did not become one,
unfortunately.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  