-- 
Lehman Brokerage Seeks to Deny $8.9 Billion Claim by Europe Affiliate LBIE

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-30T16:57:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/lehman-brokerage-seeks-to-deny-8-9-billion-claim-by-europe-affiliate-lbie.html
The trustee of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s defunct brokerage said a so-called house claim
filed by Lehman Brothers International (Europe) should be
rejected because the affiliate isn’t a customer of the
brokerage.  The Lehman affiliate LBIE is seeking $8.9 billion from the
brokerage, according to a bankruptcy court filing. Its house
claim, asserted for itself and its creditors, came on top of a
separate claim on behalf of LBIE customers who traded U.S.
securities. While faulting the house claim, the trustee has
allowed $8.3 billion of the customer claim, “one of the largest
allowed claims in the history of bankruptcy,” he said in the
filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  Like its parent, the New York-based Lehman brokerage, which
is being separately liquidated, is trying to cut claims filed by
affiliates and customers. Its Lehman parent this month settled
claims for an undisclosed amount with London-based LBIE, its
largest foreign affiliate.  Brokerage trustee James Giddens, arguing that Lehman  Europe 
didn’t deal directly with the U.S. brokerage as a broker or
dealer -- instead going through the Lehman group -- said it had
no right to customer treatment for its house claim.  No Claim  “LBIE does not have a claim on account of securities that
LBI received, acquired, or held in the ordinary course of its
business as a broker or dealer,” Giddens said in the filing.  In a separate statement, he said that allowing the house
claim “would benefit the general estate of a foreign entity
while decreasing substantially the amount that could be
distributed to all third-party, public customers of LBI.”  Katherine Howbrook, a spokeswoman for LBIE at its
administrator, PricewaterhouseCoopers, didn’t immediately
respond to requests for comment.  LBIE originally wanted as much as $13.9 billion for its
house claim, Giddens said.  The Lehman parent filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S.
history on Sept. 15, 2008. The U.S. brokerage went into
liquidation four days later.  The brokerage bankruptcy case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v.  Lehman Brothers Inc ., 08-01420,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 