-- 
Eircom’s Senior Lenders May Gain 25% Stake in Debt-Equity Swap

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-09-30T12:19:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/eircom-s-senior-lenders-may-gain-25-stake-in-debt-equity-swap.html
Eircom Group Ltd. may cede a
quarter of its shares to first-lien lenders in a debt
restructuring of Ireland’s biggest phone company, according to
three people familiar with the talks.  As part of the debt-for-equity swap proposal, senior
creditors would agree to write off some of their 2.36 billion
euros ($3.2 billion) of holdings for a 15 to 25 percent stake,
said the people, who declined to comment, because talks are
still at an early stage.  Eircom, saddled with 3.75 billion euros of debt following
five ownership changes in the last 12 years, said Sept. 15 its
senior lenders agreed to waive debt terms for three months as it
seeks to restructure its balance sheet. The company, owned by
Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte. and an employee trust, is
pursuing in excess of 1.3 billion euros of debt writedowns
across its lenders, the people said.  Holders of payment-in-kind securities, owed 643 million
euros, bondholders due 350 million euros of floating-rate notes
and second-lien creditors owed 350 million euros, will bear the
brunt of burden-sharing, according to the people.  The Dublin-based company has cut its earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization forecast for the
coming years to as low about 550 million euros, from in excess
of 600 million euros, previously, two people said June 16.  Eircom may file for protection from creditors through a
pre-packaged administration in a U.K. court, a pre-arranged plan
between a company and certain creditors to reorganize debt, five
people said. Another option is Irish examinership, where a
company secures court protection for a maximum of 100 days as it
seeks to restructuring its debts. A restructuring agreement may
take months, the people said.  Eircom’s owners are expected to inject new equity of 250
million euros to 300 million euros into the company as part of a
debt agreement, two of the people said.  Melinda Tan, a spokeswoman for STT, and a spokesman for the
Eircom’s employee trust declined to comment on the talks.  Eircom spokesman Paul Bradley wasn’t immediately available
for comment. A spokesman for the coordinating committee of
senior lenders declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  