-- 
Emanuel Goffer Deserves Up to 63 Months in Prison, U.S. Says

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-30T23:14:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/emanuel-goffer-may-deserve-63-months-in-prison-u-s-says.html
Emanuel Goffer, convicted of
 insider trading  with his brother Zvi Goffer, should be sentenced
to as much as 63 months in prison, U.S. prosecutors said.  Emanuel Goffer, who is scheduled for sentencing on Oct. 7
by U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  in  Manhattan , asked last
week for less than 46 months, saying he plays a critical role in
raising a 3-year-old son who has developmental problems.
Sullivan sentenced Zvi Goffer to 10 years in prison Sept. 21.  “Goffer’s active participation in this brazen insider
trading scheme warrants a substantial sentence,” the government
said in papers filed today, arguing in favor of a sentence
within the range called for by non-binding federal guidelines.  Prosecutors Andrew Fish,  Reed Brodsky  and Richard Tarlowe
wrote in their brief today that Goffer, who co-founded
Incremental Capital LLC in  New York , was responsible for instant
messages and trades intended to provide cover for the illegal
trades. He used an untraceable prepaid cell phone to pass tips
to his brother and helped pay for the bribes to the two former
lawyers who originated the tips, they argued.  The prosecutors said the federal guidelines call for Goffer
to get from 51 months to 63 months in prison if Sullivan
includes his trades in the shares of Hilton Hotels Corp. in his
calculations. The guidelines, which aren’t binding on the judge,
call for 41 to 51 months if Sullivan doesn’t consider the Hilton
trades, they said.  ‘Tempered Sentence’  In papers filed last week, Emanuel Goffer asked for a
“tempered sentence” shorter than the guidelines range
calculated by U.S. probation officials. Goffer said in the
filings that his son isn’t meeting “age appropriate gross motor
milestones.”  Both Goffer brothers were convicted in June along with
Michael Kimelman. A jury found  Zvi Goffer  guilty of 14 counts of
conspiracy and  securities fraud , while Emanuel and Kimelman were
both convicted of one count of conspiracy and two counts of
securities fraud.  Zvi Goffer’s former boss, Galleon co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , was found guilty in May of directing the biggest
hedge fund insider-trading scheme in history. His sentencing is
scheduled for Oct. 13.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 