-- 
Embraer Sees 2012 Demand at Par or Better Than This Year’s

-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 
2011-09-30T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/embraer-sees-2012-demand-at-par-or-better-than-this-year-s.html
Embraer SA (EMBR3) , the world’s fourth-
largest planemaker, said 2012 demand will be in line or better
than this year’s and there are no plans to cut production as
rival  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  did this month.  “Our demand remains good and next year we are poised to
repeat this year’s performance, or even fare a little better,”
the company’s president for Commercial Aviation, Paulo Cesar de Souza e Silva, said. “If you look at our backlog and compare it
to Bombardier’s, you’ll be able to quickly see why they are
cutting back production. They’re not selling their plane while
we are selling ours,” he said in a telephone interview.  Embraer said yesterday it agreed to sell five E-195
regional jets to Deutsche Lufthansa AG valued at $200 million.
At the end of second quarter,  Sao Jose dos Campos , Brazil-based
Embraer had 261 firm orders worth $15.8 billion in its backlog.
Since then, it has received a total of 15 firm orders for
planes, including 10 from Kenya Airways on Aug. 30.  The market for regional jets is divided between Embraer and
Bombardier. While the Brazilian manufacturer saw demand for 62
airplanes in the first half, the Canadian planemaker said Sept.
20 it was cutting production of its CRJ aircraft on faltering
demand.  According to Souza, demand at Embraer has been held up amid
the economic downturn, which has particularly affected the U.S.
and  Europe . American and European carriers’ need to renew aged
fleets is driving business at the Brazilian company.  “Of course, if the market was one of strong economies,
without this crisis, we could have been selling even more,”
said Souza.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in  Sao Paulo  at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  