-- 
Emerging Stocks’ Fund Outflows Double After Operation Twist

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-09-30T02:26:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/emerging-stocks-fund-outflows-double-after-operation-twist-1-.html
Emerging-market equity funds posted
a ninth week of outflows, with withdrawals almost doubling from
the previous period, as the  Federal Reserve ’s efforts to bolster
the  U.S. economy  disappointed investors, Citigroup Inc. said.  Investors pulled a net $2.6 billion from developing-nation
stock funds in the week ended Sept. 28, compared with $1.4
billion in the previous week, Citigroup analysts led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report, citing figures from EPFR Global.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index sank 6.3 percent on Sept.
22, the most since 2008, after the Fed said a day earlier it
will replace much of the short-term debt in its portfolio with
longer-term Treasuries in an effort to further reduce borrowing
costs and keep the economy from relapsing into a recession. The
policy is known as Operation Twist because of the goal of
bending the yield curve.  “Investors were increasingly worrying about longer-term
global economic growth,” Rosgen wrote in the report.  MSCI’s emerging-market gauge fell 1 percent to 886.00 at
10:24 a.m. in  Singapore , paring its weekly gain to 2.8 percent.
The measure has dropped 23 percent since June and is bound for
the largest quarterly loss since the final three months of 2008,
as the U.S. economy faltered and the European sovereign-debt
crisis spread.  Asia,  Latin America   Asian-excluding-Japan equity stock funds reported outflows
of $1.5 billion, while Latin American funds posted withdrawals
of $333 million, according to the Citigroup report. Funds
investing in central and eastern  Europe , the Middle East and
Africa were the “hardest hit” relative to assets under
management, losing $638 million of funds, the analysts wrote.  European policy makers are facing increased pressure to do
more to stop their debt crisis from further weakening the
world’s financial markets and economy. U.S. Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner warned at the annual meeting of the
 International Monetary Fund  last weekend that failure to combat
the Greek-led turmoil threatened “cascading default, bank runs
and catastrophic risk.”  The U.S. economy faces a “rapidly rising risk of
recession” and that may worsen the “ bear market ” in equities,
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. said in a presentation to reporters in
Singapore on Sept. 26. Data today may show personal spending in
the world’s largest economy grew at a slower pace in August,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  