-- 
Emerging Stocks Post Largest Quarterly Loss Since 2008 as Growth Slows

-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-30T21:51:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/emerging-stocks-head-for-largest-quarterly-loss-since-2008-as-growth-slows.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, with
the benchmark index posting its largest quarterly loss since
2008, after U.S.  consumer spending  slowed, German retail sales
slumped and a gauge of Chinese manufacturing shrank for a third
month, fueling concern global growth is slowing.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 1.6 percent to
880.43 at 5:35 p.m. New York time, extending its quarterly loss
to 23 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa Index slid 2 percent and
Mexico’s IPC Index declined 0.5 percent. Russia’s Micex fell 2.9
percent, while Hungary’s BUX Index dropped 0.2 percent.  U.S. consumer spending increased 0.2 percent last month,
down from 0.7 percent in July, as incomes dropped for the first
time in almost two years, showing scarce jobs are preventing the
 U.S. economy  from gaining ground, according to Commerce
Department data released today. German retail sales fell the
most since May 2007, the Federal Statistics Office said. The
Chinese manufacturing gauge extended its longest contraction
since 2009, as measures of new orders and export demand fell.  “The weak state of global growth data recently suggests
further de-risking by investors” as they sell higher yielding
emerging-market assets, said  Nick Chamie , the global head of
emerging-market research at RBC Dominion Secruties Inc. in
Toronto. “A stabilization of the global economic environment is
needed for a sustained rally beyond any temporary bounces we may
see after the large outflows we’ve seen.”  Emerging-market equity funds posted a ninth week of
outflows, with withdrawals almost doubling from the previous
period, Citigroup Inc. said. MSCI’s emerging-markets gauge has
dropped 15 percent in September, the most since October 2008.
The index gained 2.2 percent this week.  Brazil Stocks  Brazilian miner  Vale SA (VALE5) , whose top export market is  China ,
declined 2.2 percent. OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
dropped 4.9 percent and Petroleo Brasileiro SA slid 1.6 percent,
following crude prices lower. Consumer-goods maker Hypermarcas
SA plunged 9.2 percent, leading declines for companies that
depend on domestic demand.  Mexico ’s Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker in the
Americas, plunged 6.3 percent. Consumer spending in the U.S.,
which accounts for about 14 percent of the company’s revenue,
slowed in August as incomes unexpectedly dropped for the first
time in almost two years. Corporacion GEO SAB, Mexico’s second-
largest homebuilder, dropped 6.6 percent.  Brazil’s real fell 2.1 percent against the dollar, bringing
its quarterly loss to 17 percent, its worst quarter since 2008,
while Mexico’s peso slid 1.4 percent.  The rand weakened 1.7 percent against the dollar, taking
its monthly retreat to 16 percent and its quarterly loss to 20
percent. The ruble depreciated 0.7 percent. It has fallen 15
percent against the U.S. currency this quarter, the biggest drop
since the three-month period ended March 2009.  Retail sales in  Germany , adjusted for inflation and
seasonal swings, slumped 2.9 percent last month from July, when
they rose 0.3 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. Economists had forecast a 0.5 percent
decline, according to the median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 462, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  -- With assistance from Weiyi Lim in  Singapore . Editors: Linda
Shen,  Michael Patterson , Richard Richtmyer  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net 
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  