-- 
Tepco Faces ‘Zombie’ Future as Fukushima Claims Set to Surpass $59 Billion

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-09-30T07:30:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/tepco-sees-climbing-fukushima-damage-claims.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co., which
faces damages of at least 4.5 trillion yen ($59 billion) for the
Fukushima nuclear disaster, may be consigned to a future as a
“zombie company” requiring constant government funding.  The estimate is contained in a report from a panel
reviewing finances at the Japanese utility known as Tepco, the
Yomiuri newspaper said today. The government is trying to avert
the bankruptcy of a company that supplies power to 29 million
customers as it pays for the worst nuclear disaster in 25 years.  With bankruptcy proceedings “they can squeeze out at least
5 trillion yen,”  Yoshimi Watanabe , the head of Japan’s
opposition Your Party, said in an interview. The government is
“simply writing a check to be funded by higher electricity
bills and taxes. Tepco will ultimately be a zombie company.”  The term zombie company is a throwback to the 1990s when
the Japan’s asset bubble burst and large corporations avoided
bankruptcy by being kept alive with loans from banks that also
held their stock. Tepco, which has reported losses of 1.8
trillion yen, must also find funds to pay for decommissioning
and clean up costs after the March earthquake and tsunami caused
three reactor meltdowns at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  The oversight panel is due to present its report next week
to the Cabinet of Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and the findings
will form the basis of a plan to be drafted by Tepco and the
Nuclear Damage Compensation Facilitation Corp. The body opened
its offices on Sept. 26 after being created by an act of
parliament in August with 2 trillion yen of funds.  Capital Injections  The plan will provide for compensating 160,000 residents
who fled the radiation leaking from the plant, along with
fishery, forestry and farming businesses damaged by the
accident. It will also pave the way for the government to beef
up Tepco’s finances by issuing  government bonds  the company can
immediately redeem or through capital injections.  Tepco may face as much as 11 trillion yen in compensation
claims, Bank of America Corp. said in March. Shares of the
company are down nearly 90 percent since the day before the
disaster.  To qualify for the government support Tepco must carry out
“thorough reforms,” Takehiko Sugiyama, the head of the
compensation corporation, said at the opening of its
headquarters in central  Tokyo  on Sept. 26.  Cutting Staff  These include cutting 7,400 employees, or 14 percent of its
workforce, the Yomiuri newspaper said yesterday, citing a draft
of the report. The compensation corporation may also take over
the utility, the paper said.  Tepco’s management may be forced to step down and pensions
will be cut, according to the Nikkei newspaper. Beyond
compensation payments, the company may have a funding shortage
of 8.3 trillion yen over 10 years if it can’t raise power
tariffs and restart idled nuclear reactors.  “Tepco and the government will push through a hike in
electricity rates as well as cost-cutting measures,” said
Tomohiro Jikihara, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo.
“The government promoted nuclear power, so it should take
responsibility for Tepco.”  Decommissioning the four damaged reactors at Fukushima Dai-
Ichi, one of which was idled before the disaster, will cost 1.12
trillion yen, the Nikkei said.  Cleanup Costs  The cleanup bill may rise depending on the cost of
decontaminating farmland and residential areas near the plant,
some of which may be uninhabitable for decades.  Tepco in May reported a full-year loss of 1.25 trillion
yen, the biggest for a non-financial company in  Japan . That was
followed by a quarterly loss of 572 billion yen announced in
August, as the utility booked more charges for the disaster.  It received 2 trillion yen of emergency loans from Japanese
banks in late March, funds which its mostly used to redeem bonds
coming due.  Tepco should be put into  bankruptcy protection , said
Shigeaki Koga, a former senior bureaucrat at the Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry, which both regulated Tepco and
promoted nuclear power.  Koga, who this year published a book criticizing the
concentration of power in Japan’s bureaucracy, in May wrote a
16-point plan for resolving the crisis that included writedowns
on loans. Tepco’s power generation and transmission units should
be separated, said Koga, who was told to resign from the
ministry earlier this month.  Sending Tepco into bankruptcy wouldn’t be “appropriate,”
Trade and Industry Minister  Yukio Edano  said earlier this month.  “Tepco is too big to fail,” said Reiji Ogino, an
analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in
Tokyo, said by phone. “Government officials don’t want to deal
with the crisis. It’s easier to let Tepco excecutives apologize
to those affected by the disaster.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  