-- 
Merkel for Fresh Belarus Sanctions After Meeting Opposition

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-09-30T09:29:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/merkel-for-fresh-belarus-sanctions-after-meeting-opposition.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  called for
intensified European Union sanctions against Belarus and the
release of political prisoners in the former Soviet republic
after meeting with opponents of President Aleksandr Lukashenko.  Fresh sanctions should be targeted at Belarusian industry
officials as well as justice authorities involved in the
prosecution of members of the opposition, German government
spokesman Steffen Seibert said today in an e-mailed statement.
Merkel also called for the release of presidential candidates
who were imprisoned following last December’s election.  “The chancellor was startled by the depiction of the
political situation in Belarus and foremost by the individual
stories of political opponents living under extreme fear of
prosecution since the falsified elections last December,” the
statement said. Merkel met with the opposition figures at an EU
conference with eastern neighbors late yesterday in Warsaw.  Belarus said today it was leaving the meeting, the Eastern
Partnership Summit, saying that decisions from the gathering
touching on Belarus were “not legitimate,” according to the
Foreign Ministry in Minsk.  Merkel will seek to place “massive” pressure on
Lukashenko’s regime to release prisoners. Dialog with the regime
will only be possible when “repression in Belarus comes to an
end” and free elections are held, the German statement said.  Belarus has come under pressure to reform its political and
economic system and release political prisoners from the
 International Monetary Fund . The former Soviet republic is
struggling with a balance-of-payments crisis that forced a 36
percent devaluation of the ruble in May.  Lukashenko on Sept. 14 pardoned 11 political prisoners
convicted of protesting last December’s presidential elections,
according to a  statement  published on the president’s website.
The Belarusian leader previously released 13 people sentenced
for organizing and participating in mass protests during the
elections. Five remained in prison after the Sept. 14
announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  