-- 
Mets Ruling Used Within Days as Weapon in Fighting Madoff Trustee Suits

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-30T19:28:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/mets-ruling-being-used-as-weapon-by-defendants-in-madoff-trustee-lawsuits.html
A judge’s ruling that slashed a
billion-dollar claim against the owners of the  New York Mets 
three days ago is already being used as a weapon by other
defendants in lawsuits brought by the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm.  Safra National Bank of New York yesterday asked a
bankruptcy judge to dismiss a suit by trustee  Irving Picard ,
citing U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff’s Sept. 27 ruling. Rye
Select Broad Market XL Portfolio Ltd., based in the Cayman
Islands, separately asked a federal district judge to take its
Madoff suit out of U.S. bankruptcy court, citing Rakoff’s
decision in the case against  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz.  Rakoff cut Picard’s claim against the Mets owners to about
$386 million and raised the standard for him to get even that
much. The judge said Picard could try to reclaim only two years
of withdrawals from the  Ponzi scheme , while dismissing nine of
11 causes of action against Wilpon and Katz.  Privately owned Safra, which is fighting Picard’s demand
for about $112 million allegedly invested with Madoff through
so-called feeder funds, said in a filing that “at a minimum”
Picard’s demand for funds it took from the Ponzi scheme beyond
two years should be dismissed. Rye, sued for $400 million, said
its case involving swap transactions was similar to the Mets
case, and that Rakoff sided with the defendants saying
settlement payments were protected by so-called safe harbor law.  Payments Delayed  Rakoff’s two-year ruling could cost Picard about $2.7
billion on all his clawback suits, the trustee said yesterday.
Another $3.5 billion of so-called preference payments was “in
question” because of another aspect of Rakoff’s ruling.
Picard’s first payments to investors totaling $272 million will
be delayed, he said.  Picard, who has filed more than 1,000 suits to pay
investors who lost money in the Ponzi scheme, will ask Rakoff
for permission to appeal to the federal appeals court in  New
York . If Rakoff consents, the appeals court will decide whether
to review the ruling.  Picard and his firm have charged more than $224 million for
work since Madoff’s 2008 arrest. The con man is serving a 150-
year sentence in a federal prison in  North Carolina .  The Mets case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 