-- 
EU Drops Threat of Tariffs on Graphite Electrodes From China

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-09-30T08:26:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/eu-drops-threat-of-tariffs-on-graphite-electrodes-from-china.html
The European Union ended the threat
of tariffs on graphite electrodes from  China  after an EU
producers’ group withdrew a complaint about price undercutting.  The European Commission closed an investigation into
whether Chinese manufacturers of graphite electrodes for
electric furnaces sell them in the EU below cost, a practice
known as dumping. Steelmakers such as Germany’s  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) 
use such graphite electrodes.  The  European Carbon and Graphite Association , which last
year filed a dumping complaint on behalf of EU manufacturers,
withdrew the allegation on July 8, the European Commission, the
27-nation bloc’s trade authority in Brussels, said today in the
 Official Journal . The complaint led the commission to open an
inquiry in December that could have led the EU to apply anti-
dumping duties for five years.  That same month, the EU re-imposed duties against  India  on
graphite electrodes for electric furnaces for another five
years. Three European manufacturers including Germany’s  SGL
Carbon SE (SGL)  had requested the renewal of those levies, which are
to counter Indian subsidies to exporters as well as dumping by
those companies in Europe.  In its two decisions last December renewing the anti-
dumping and anti-subsidy levies against India, the EU said
China’s share of the bloc’s market for graphite electrodes for
electric furnaces rose to 2.6 percent in the 12 months through
June 2009 from 0.2 percent in 2006. Indian exporters including
 HEG Ltd. (HEG)  and  Graphite India Ltd. (GRIL)  more than tripled their
combined share of the EU market to about 5 percent in the same
period, the bloc said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  