-- 
EU Officials Voice Concern on Ukraine Opposition Detention

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-09-30T13:47:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/eu-officials-voice-concern-on-ukraine-opposition-detention-1-.html
European Union officials said they
were concerned about the two-month detention of former Ukrainian
Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko .  “We expressed our concerns about the fate of the former
prime minister and we expressed our rejection of a possible
selective use of criminal judicial measures against members of
the previous administration,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy 
told reporters in Warsaw today after a meeting of EU and eastern
European leaders.  Tymoshenko, a leader of the 2004 Orange Revolution, has
remained in police detention since being arrested on Aug. 5 in
connection with a claim by public prosecutors that her
government agreed to pay too much for deliveries of Russian
natural gas in 2009.  Catherine Ashton , the EU’s foreign policy chief, said in a
statement after Tymoshenko’s detention that the bloc expected
“high standards” from countries seeking closer ties with it.
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  was today more
forceful, saying the EU wants the issue “to be settled.”  While Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych  said yesterday
he wants to sign an Association Agreement this year with the EU
in an effort to steer the former Soviet state toward membership,
Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk said the EU was observing the
treatment of Tymoshenko closely and that the case could prove a
hitch to improved links with the 27-nation bloc.  “We want to help Ukraine in its aspirations,” Tusk said
at a press conference with the EU leaders today. “But the poor
treatment of opposition members makes closer ties more
difficult.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  