-- 
EU Transaction Tax Needs ‘National Level’ Design, Re-Define Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-09-30T11:34:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/eu-transaction-tax-needs-national-level-design-re-define-says.html
European Union proposals for a
financial-transaction tax would be more likely to succeed if
pursued on a country-by-country basis, said Sony Kapoor,
managing director of policy group Re-Define  Europe .  Reaching an agreement among the 27 EU member states, or
even the 17 nations of the euro area, is likely to be
impossible, Kapoor said in an interview in Brussels.
To have any chance of passage, tax proposals need to be targeted
at only those countries interested in such an effort, he said.  “Having a design that deliberately is set up to be
possible at a national level is the only sensible thing to do,
if indeed you are serious about such a proposal, as at least the
president of the  European Commission  seems to be,” Kapoor said.  The EU this week proposed a financial-transaction tax to
start in 2014, saying it could raise 57 billion euros ($77
billion) per year to aid national and regional budgets. “It is
time for the financial sector to make a contribution back to
society,” European Commission President  Jose Barroso  told the
European Parliament in Strasbourg in announcing the proposal,
which requires the approval of all EU member states.  Britain, home to Europe’s biggest financial center, and the
Netherlands criticized the plan as unworkable, particularly if
it is not enacted on a global basis. It is “no good at all”
and would affect the competitiveness of the EU, Dutch Deputy
Finance Minister Frans Weekers told lawmakers yesterday.  The proposal would apply a levy of 0.1 percent on trading
of stocks and bonds, with a 0.01 percent rate for derivatives
contracts, according to the commission, the EU executive.  ‘Not Excessive’  The EU is seeking to insulate households and small
businesses from the levy by only assessing financial
institutions. At the same time, the proposal allows banks to
pass on costs to their customers. The EU said these fees would
be “not excessive” and gave the example of a 10-euro fee on a
10,000-euro stock purchase.  The tax would “fundamentally change and in some cases
destroy the business models of financial institutions within
Europe and will put them at a disadvantage unless implemented
globally,” Tom Aston, financial services tax partner at KPMG
LLP in  London , said in an e-mailed statement. He said the cost
of the tax “may ultimately be passed on to consumers directly
and the wider economy indirectly through lower levels of
business.”  A top U.K. banking regulator yesterday backed public
discussion about the merits of enacting a transaction tax.  ‘Forbidden Thought’  Adair Turner , chairman of the Financial Services Authority
and a member of the Bank of England’s Financial Policy
Committee, first raised the idea of a so-called  Tobin tax  in
August 2009, when he told Prospect magazine it would help
redistribute bank profits to the poor and “public goods” like
fighting  climate change .  “I thought financial-transaction taxes should be taken out
of the index of forbidden thought,” he told an academic
conference in the southern U.K. city of Winchester yesterday.  The proposal, if enacted, would put a big dent in the
overall economy as its costs were spread throughout the
financial system, said Confederation of British Industry Deputy
Director-General Neil Bentley. “To press ahead with a
financial-transaction tax is completely misguided at a time when
it’s clear that Europe needs a relentless focus on growth,” he
said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  