-- 
ECB Effort to Contain Crisis Is Complicated by Surprise Surge in Inflation

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-09-30T10:53:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/european-inflation-unexpectedly-accelerates-to-the-fastest-pace-since-2008.html
European inflation unexpectedly
accelerated to the fastest in almost three years in September,
complicating the  European Central Bank ’s task as it fights the
region’s worsening sovereign-debt crisis.  The euro-area inflation rate jumped to 3 percent this month
from 2.5 percent in August, the European Union’s  statistics
office  in Luxembourg said today in an initial estimate. That’s
the biggest annual increase in consumer prices since October
2008. Economists had projected inflation to hold at 2.5 percent,
according to the median of 38 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Faster inflation increases pressure on an economy already
hurt by tougher austerity measures and waning investor
confidence as governments struggle to contain the fiscal crisis.
European economic confidence slumped more than economists
forecast this month and German retail sales fell the most in
more than four years in August. Commerzbank AG said today that
the region “looks set to slip into a recession.”  “It’s more of a technical thing than a fundamental
change,” said Laurent Bilke, global head of inflation strategy
at Nomura International Plc in  London , which was the only bank
to forecast the right inflation rate in the Bloomberg survey.
“The ECB is not going to cut in October and obviously strong
inflation doesn’t give them much room for maneuver on that side.
They will probably need a few more months of negative economic
news to get there, maybe in November or December.”  The euro extended declines after the report, trading at
$1.3493 at 12:49 p.m. in Brussels, down 0.7 percent on the day.
The Euro Stoxx 50 Index dropped as much as 2.3 percent.  Greek Default  Investor concern that European governments may be unable to
contain the debt crisis and prevent a Greek default has weighed
on equity markets and pushed the euro lower.  Germany ’s benchmark
 DAX Index (DAX)  has shed 21 percent over the pasts two months, with
the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index down 14 percent.  The ECB, which aims to keep annual gains in consumer prices
just below 2 percent, said earlier this month that inflation may
average 2.6 percent this year and 1.7 percent in 2012. Economic
growth may weaken to 1.3 percent next year from 1.6 percent in
2011, it said.  Italy’s harmonized inflation quickened to 3.5 percent in
September from 2.3 percent in August. In Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, inflation also accelerated more than economists
forecast this month, with consumer prices rising 2.8 percent
from a year earlier, up from an annual 2.5 percent.  Spain ’s
harmonized inflation rate jumped to 3 percent from 2.7 percent.
There’s no September data available for  France .  ECB Measures  With companies reluctant to boost hiring and increasing
price pressures eroding their purchasing power, consumers may
keep spending plans on hold. European economic confidence
dropped to the lowest in almost two years this month and
services output contracted.  Still, ECB officials have indicated the central bank is
more likely to take non-standard measures first before resorting
to rate cuts. Council members  Ewald Nowotny  and  Luc Coene 
signaled the ECB may offer banks unlimited liquidity for as long
as a year, while a euro-area central banking official speaking
on condition of anonymity said policy makers will also debate
restarting their covered-bond purchases.  “We suspect the ECB may be reluctant to cut  interest rates 
in the near term,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at  ING
Groep NV (INGA)  in Amsterdam, calling today’s report a “bombshell.”
The central bank “may instead opt to take steps to improve
market functioning.”  Rate Cut  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who will retire at the
end of October, said on  Sept. 8  that inflation rates are
“likely to stay clearly above” 2 percent in the coming months
before falling below the central bank’s ceiling in 2012. This
assessment is based on “moderate economic growth,” he said.
Trichet will be succeeded by Italy’s  Mario Draghi .  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global
Insight in London, said Draghi “may be reluctant to see
interest-rate cuts straight away” when taking over.  “Despite the jump in inflation in September, there is
evidence that underlying euro-zone price pressures are abating
in the face of weakened economic activity and high
unemployment,” he said. “An ECB move as soon as next Thursday
is unlikely.”  The statistics office will release a breakdown of September
consumer prices next month. Euro-region core inflation, which
excludes volatile costs such as energy, held at 1.2 percent in
August from the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  