-- 
European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Gain in 14 Months; Allianz, Axa Jump

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-09-30T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-gain-in-14-months-allianz-axa-jump.html
European stocks posted the largest
weekly gain in 14 months, paring a quarterly loss, as German
backing for an enhanced euro-area rescue fund eased concern that
policy makers will be unable to contain the debt crisis and U.S.
jobs and growth data beat forecasts.  Allianz SE and Axa SA led a gauge of insurers to the
biggest jump since March 2009.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, France’s
second-largest bank, and KBC Groep NV,  Belgium ’s biggest lender
by market value, climbed more than 20 percent. Lundin Petroleum
AB soared 44 percent after increasing its estimate of
recoverable resources for an oil prospect.  The Stoxx 600 Europe Index advanced 4.6 percent to 226.18
this week, the biggest gain since July 2010. The measure still
lost 17 percent in the third quarter, the most since the final
period of 2008, which followed Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
collapse. The gauge has fallen for five straight months amid
concern  Greece ’s debt crisis will spread to other countries in
the region and as reports indicated a slowdown in the economy.  “German lawmakers’ positive vote as well as some good
economic data coming from the other side of the pond were well
received by market participants,” said Stephane Ekolo, chief
European strategist at Market Securities in  London .  Germany ’s lower house of parliament approved the expansion
of the European Financial Stability Facility’s firepower on
Sept. 29, raising Germany’s guarantees to 211 billion euros
($286 billion) from 123 billion euros. Lawmakers in the
Bundestag voted 523 in favor of the measure, while 85 voted
against; three abstained.  ‘Political Elements’  The vote in Germany “supported the market this week,”
said Guillaume Duchesne, an equity strategist at BGL BNP Paribas
SA in Luxembourg. “Now we need confirmation of the political
elements and positive economic elements for the trend to be
sustainable.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  in an interview
on ABC on Sept. 26 predicted that European governments will step
up their response to the debt crisis after a chiding from
counterparts around the world at meetings of the  International
Monetary Fund  last weekend.  Policy makers in  Europe  now understand the severity of the
problems and the actions that need to be taken, Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian said in a radio
interview on Sept. 27 on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom
Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  U.S. Growth  A Sept. 29 report showed a revised 1.3 percent increase in
U.S. gross domestic product in the second quarter, compared with
a 1 percent gain previously calculated. Applications for jobless
benefits dropped by 37,000 in the week ended Sept. 24 to
391,000, the fewest since April, according to Labor Department
figures. Both reports were better than economists’ estimates.  Data yesterday indicated confidence among U.S. consumers
rose from the lowest level since November 2008 as pessimism
about the economy eased. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan final index of consumer sentiment climbed to 59.4 last
month, higher than forecast, from 55.7 in August.  National benchmark indexes rose in all of western Europe’s
18 markets.  France ’s CAC 40 added 6.1 percent, the U.K.’s FTSE
100 climbed 1.2 percent and Germany’s DAX jumped 5.9 percent.  Allianz and Axa, Europe’s biggest insurers, rallied 20
percent and 19 percent, respectively, the biggest gains in more
than two years. Delta Lloyd NV, the publicly traded Dutch
insurance unit of Aviva Plc, soared 20 percent.  Banks Climb  Societe Generale gained 20 percent, the biggest increase
since March 2009, while BNP Paribas SA, France’s biggest lender,
climbed 19 percent. KBC advanced 26 percent.  Lundin Petroleum surged 44 percent, the most on record. The
company increased its estimate of recoverable resources for the
North Sea Avaldsnes prospect, part of a discovery that now ranks
among  Norway ’s five biggest offshore finds. Lundin raised its
estimate for production license 501 to 800 million to 1.8
billion barrels of recoverable oil.  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  added 9.2 percent, the most since 2008,
as Europe’s second-largest clothing retailer reported earnings
that beat estimates. Operating profit fell 17 percent to 4.71
billion kronor ($700 million) in the three months ended Aug. 31,
topping the average of 17 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg for income of 4.35 billion kronor.  Man Group Plc tumbled 27 percent, the biggest drop since it
first sold shares in 1994. The world’s biggest hedge fund said
on Sept. 28 its assets under management will decline by $6
billion amid “suppressed” demand for investment products.  Luxury Goods Decline  Luxury goods makers fell after a Bloomberg survey showed on
Sept. 29 that most global investors predict Chinese growth will
slow to less than 5 percent by 2016.  “Market participants are starting to get wary about
Chinese economic prospects,” Market Securities’ Ekolo said.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s biggest
luxury goods company, slipped 5.5 percent. The company makes 25
percent of its revenue in  Asia , according to Bloomberg data.
 Swatch Group AG (UHR) , that watchmaker that makes 51 percent of its
sales in Asia, slid 12 percent.  A gauge of Chinese manufacturing shrank for a third month
in September, the longest contraction since 2009, as measures of
new orders and export demand declined. A reading of 49.9 for the
purchasing managers’ index, released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics yesterday, was unchanged from August and
compared with a preliminary figure of 49.4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 