-- 
Ex-Harvard Student Gets Three-Years In Prison Related to Drug-Dealer Death

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-09-30T18:36:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/ex-harvard-student-gets-three-year-prison-sentence-for-drug-dealer-killing.html
A former Harvard University student
was sentenced to three years in prison after pleading guilty in
 Massachusetts  today to charges in connection with the fatal
shooting of a drug dealer in a campus dorm.  Brittany Smith, 24, pleaded guilty to illegal possession of
a firearm, being an accessory after the fact and willfully
misleading a grand jury and a police officer, according to a
statement from the Middlesex County District Attorney’s office.
She was sentenced by Middlesex Superior Court Judge Kathe
Tuttman at a hearing today in Woburn.  In May 2009, Harvard and Cambridge, Massachusetts, police
went to the Kirkland House dormitory after reports of gunshots,
according to the District Attorney’s office. Justin Cosby, 21,
of Cambridge, had run from the dorm to a nearby street where he
collapsed from a gunshot wound to the abdomen, according to
prosecutors. He was taken to the hospital and pronounced dead
the next day.  “Today, the final person bearing legal responsibility for
this tragedy has now admitted their role in Justin’s murder and
been held accountable,” District Attorney Gerard Leone said in
the statement.  The authorities said three  New York  men, none of them
Harvard students, had arranged to meet Cosby to rob him in
connection with a drug deal. During that meeting at the
dormitory, Cosby was shot.  Hid Firearm  Smith had invited one of the men, Jabrai Jordan Copney, to
the dorm and provided him with her Harvard ID card to enter the
building, authorities said. After the shooting, she hid the
firearm that was used under a friend’s bed in another dormitory.
She then fled with the men on a bus to New York. When she
returned to Harvard the next day, she was questioned by the
police and lied to them about her ID, prosecutors said.  John Osler, Smith’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment on today’s sentencing.  Smith was suspended by Harvard and wasn’t allowed to
graduate. Her full sentence was three years and one day in
prison and two years of probation.  Copney, 20, was charged with first degree murder in
Middlesex Superior Court, found guilty after a  jury trial  and
sentenced to life in prison. The other men were also arrested
and charged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  