-- 
Facebook Sued for Tracking Users After Log-Off; Class-Action Status Sought

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-10-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/facebook-may-face-group-privacy-suit-over-web-tracking-after-users-log-off.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s most
popular social-networking service, was accused by users of the
site in a class-action lawsuit of secretly tracking their Web
activity after they log off.  The company assures users that “cookie” files installed
on their computers to identify them and track their interactions
with Facebook applications and websites while they are logged on
are removed when they log off, according to a complaint in
federal court in  San Jose ,  California . Facebook admitted on
Sept. 26 that the cookies track users’ Internet activity after
they log off, according to yesterday’s complaint.  “This admission came only after an Australian technology
blogger exposed Facebook’s practice of monitoring members who
have logged out, although he brought the problems to the
defendant’s attention a year ago,” according to the complaint.  On Sept. 29, 10 public-interest groups asked the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission to investigate  Palo Alto , California-
based Facebook’s tracking of  Internet users  after they log off.
The Electronic Privacy Information Center and nine other groups
urged the FTC to examine whether Facebook’s new Ticker and
Timeline features increase privacy risks for users by combining
biographical information in an easily accessible format.  The lawsuit filed by Perrin Aikens Davis of  Illinois  seeks
class, or group, status on behalf of other Facebook users living
in the U.S. Davis seeks unspecified damages and a court order
blocking the tracking based on alleged violations of federal
laws, including restrictions on wiretapping, as well as computer
fraud and abuse statutes.  “We believe this complaint is without merit and we will
fight it vigorously,” Andrew Noyes, a spokesman Facebook, said
in an e-mailed statement.  David Straite, a lawyer for Davis, said “our goal is to
seek redress for the wrongs they have committed and to ensure it
doesn’t happen again.”  The case is Davis v. Facebook, 11-4834, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  