-- 
Facebook Privacy, Raymond James Settlement, Furukawa: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-09-30T12:08:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/facebook-privacy-raymond-james-settlement-furukawa-compliance.html
Ten public-interest groups asked
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to investigate Facebook Inc.’s
tracking of Internet users after they log off the world’s most
popular social-networking service.  The  Electronic Privacy Information Center  and nine other
groups, in a letter filed with the FTC yesterday, also urged the
agency to examine whether Facebook’s new Ticker and Timeline
features boost privacy risks for users by combining biographical
information in an easily accessible format.  “We would like the FTC to investigate the extent to which
Facebook’s recent changes and its secret tracking of users after
they have logged out constitute unfair or deceptive business
practice,” said David Jacobs, consumer protection fellow for
EPIC, in a telephone interview.  Facebook, based in  Palo Alto , California, is adding
features to entice users to spend more time on the site and
avoid losing them to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which also
offer video and music services. Last week, Facebook Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  unveiled new ways for members
to use the social network to share music, movies, television
shows, news and activities such as cooking and exercising.  The letter to the FTC references a Sept. 25 blog posting by
Australian blogger Nik Cubrilovic, who wrote that Facebook
placed so-called “cookies” on users’ browsers that tracked
their Internet activity even after they logged out of Facebook.
Although Facebook moved to resolve the issue, “it’s unclear how
complete the fix is,” Jacobs said.  “There was no security or privacy breach,” Andrew Noyes,
a Facebook spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Facebook did not
store or use any information it should not have.”  Claudia Bourne Farrell, a FTC spokeswoman, confirmed that
the agency received the letter. She declined to comment further.  For more, click here.  SEC Urges Brokers to Bolster Controls Over Market Access  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is urging
brokers to tighten controls over accounts used to give clients
direct access to markets, saying the so-called sub-accounts can
be used to hide wrongdoing.  Carlo di Florio, director of the SEC’s Office of Compliance
Inspections and Examinations, said yesterday in a Risk Alert
issued by agency staff that while master/sub-account
arrangements have legitimate business purposes, some customers
may use them as vehicles for illegal activity or in an attempt
to avoid or minimize regulatory obligations and oversight.  The alert offers suggestions for brokers on compliance with
the market access  rule  approved by commissioners in November.
The rule, which went into effect in July, directed firms to
implement controls to limit risks associated with trading by
their customers. It also ended unsupervised trading, or “naked
access” to markets.  Because master accounts are often subdivided, brokers must
take steps such as verifying user identities, monitoring trading
patterns and tracking hacking attempts to protect against crimes
including money laundering and insider trading, the SEC said in
the alert.  For more, click here.  Ecuador’s Congress Approves Proposed Anti-Monopoly Law  Ecuador’s congress yesterday approved a new anti-monopoly
law granting the president increased powers to regulate market
concentration and fine companies for unfair business practices.  The law was approved with 67 votes, according to a
statement published in the president’s official gazette.  Compliance Action  Raymond James  to Pay $2 Million Over Finra Unfair Charge Claim  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF)  will pay more than $2 million
to resolve Financial Industry Regulatory Authority claims that
more than 15,500 brokerage clients were charged excessive
commissions on securities trades.  Two units of St. Petersburg, Florida-based Raymond James
used automated commission schedules from 2006 to 2010 that led
to investors being overcharged by $1.69 million for trades of
mostly low-priced securities, Finra said yesterday in a
statement. The firm didn’t properly weigh security type and
transaction size in evaluating whether charges were appropriate,
Finra said.  Raymond James, which agreed to resolve the claims without
admitting or denying wrongdoing, will return the $1.69 million
in overcharges and pay $425,000 in fines, Finra said.  “We are pleased to have resolved this matter with Finra,”
Steve Hollister, a spokesman for Raymond James, said in an e-
mailed statement. The company revised the automated commission
schedule on July 1 of this year after being notified of Finra’s
findings, he said.  The affected trades represent less than 0.1 percent of
total equity trades executed by Raymond James during that time,
and the average impact per affected account was about $110,
Hollister said.  CBOE to Buy National Stock Exchange, Getting Second Market  CBOE Stock Exchange, the equity market owned by the biggest
U.S. options platform and a group of brokers, agreed to buy
National Stock Exchange Inc. for an undisclosed price.  National Stock Exchange, or NSX, will remain a separate
market from CBOE Stock Exchange, or CBSX, which is owned by
Chicago-based  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  and companies including  Cowen
Group Inc. (COWN) , Susquehanna International Group LLP and  Interactive
Brokers Group Inc. (IBKR) , according to a statement.  U.S. exchange operators have acquired rivals in the past
six years, maintaining them as separate markets to offer pricing
plans and incentives to attract different kinds of traders.  The deal, which must be approved by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, is expected to be completed this year.  Chaoda Says Chairman Kwok Disputes Tribunal Allegations  Chaoda Modern Agriculture (Holdings) Ltd., a Chinese
vegetable supplier, said Chairman Kwok Ho and Chief Financial
Officer Andy Chan dispute insider-trading allegations made by
Hong Kong’s market misconduct tribunal.  The allegations aren’t made against the company, Chaoda
Modern said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange
today. Kwok and Chan “do not accept” the allegations, it said.  Kwok, Chan and Fidelity Management’s George Stairs were
accused by Hong Kong’s financial secretary of insider trading,
according to a notice released by the tribunal on Sept. 28.  Chaoda Modern said it doesn’t expect the proceeding to have
any material effect on the operations or financial position of
the company or its units.  The financial secretary alleges the chairman and CFO told
Stairs about a June 2009 share placement three days before it
was publicly announced, and the fund manager traded profitably
as a result, according to the tribunal’s Sept. 28 notice. A
further tribunal hearing is scheduled for Jan. 30.  Chaoda’s shares were suspended from trading on Sept. 26
after the misconduct proceedings were first reported. They will
remain suspended until the company issues a statement to address
a report by Anonymous Analytics, it said. The report questions
Chaoda’s accounts.  French Energy Regulator Rejects Government Gas Price Freeze  A French government freeze on natural-gas rates for
households is “not compatible” with an open market and means
 GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA won’t be able to cover its supply costs, according
to the country’s energy regulator.  State-regulated prices for households from Oct. 1 are
“insufficient” to meet the costs of natural gas, according to
a ruling by the Commission de Regulation de l’Energie, published
today in the official government journal.  The rates should have been raised by 8.8 percent and 10
percent depending on the type of consumer, the regulator said.  The government announced last week that regulated gas
prices will be unchanged for households and rise 4.9 percent for
businesses starting tomorrow.  A group of suppliers that compete with GDF Suez filed an
appeal with France’s highest court, saying the decision will
hinder competition. The government in April froze rates for a
year.  Direct Edge to Allow Brokers to Register as Market Makers  Brokers will be able to register as market makers on two
stock exchanges operated by Direct Edge Holdings LLC around mid-
October, according to the company.  They can begin functioning as market makers on EDGA
Exchange and EDGX Exchange in November or December, Direct Edge
said in a  notice . Direct Edge hasn’t offered a market-maker
program in the past. The Securities and Exchange Commission must
approve the request to institute a program for market makers
before it goes into effect.  Courts  Furukawa Electric to Pay $200 Million Fine for Price-Fixing  Furukawa Electric Co. agreed to plead guilty and pay a $200
million fine for a price-fixing and bid-rigging conspiracy
involving the sale of parts to carmakers.  Three executives, Junichi Funo, Hirotsugu Nagata and
Tetsuya Ukai, also agreed to plead guilty and to serve prison
time in the U.S. ranging from a year and a day to 18 months, the
Justice Department said in a statement yesterday.  The charges are the first stemming from a continuing U.S.
antitrust probe of the auto-parts industry, according to the
Justice Department. Tokyo-based Furukawa and the three
executives agreed to help the department in the investigation,
the statement said.  David Noble, administration manager for Plymouth, Michigan-
based American Furukawa Inc., the company’s U.S. unit, declined
to comment yesterday and said the company will issue a statement
today.  The company was part of the conspiracy from January 2000
through at least January of last year, according to the
department. The three executives, who are Japanese citizens,
participated in the scheme from April 2003 through July 2009,
the U.S. said. The scheme partly involved the Detroit area.  The plea agreements require approval by a judge.  Total Wins, Arkema Loses Court Bid on Chemicals Cartel Fine  Total SA (FP) ’s Elf Aquitaine unit won a bid at the European
Union’s top court to overturn its share of antitrust fines
levied against it together with former Total subsidiary  Arkema
SA (AKE)  for fixing prices of a chemical used in detergents.  The European Commission “had not given sufficiently
reasoned answers to several of the arguments put forward by Elf
Aquitaine in order to establish that Arkema determined its
conduct on the market independently,” the  EU Court of Justice 
ruled yesterday. The Luxembourg-based court rejected a separate
appeal by Arkema against its part of the fine.  The companies had challenged the way in which the
commission calculated part of the 216.9 million-euro ($296
million) penalty against manufacturers, including  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) 
and Sanofi-Aventis SA’s Hoechst unit, for rigging prices of
monochloroacetic acid. The case is the first in which a
commission fine was challenged over the failure to show the
parent company knew about antitrust violations.  The commission said in 2005 the companies conspired for 15
years to control more than 90 percent of the European market
worth as much as 125 million euros annually. Monochloroacetic
acid is also used to make adhesives and drugs and to thicken
cosmetics.  The cases are: C-520/09 P, Arkema v. Commission; C-521/09
P, Elf Aquitaine v. Commission.  Interviews/Speeches  Gordon Says Clear Policy Needed to Raise U.S. Confidence  Author and economic historian John Steele Gordon talked
about confidence among Americans and the U.S. political
environment, and discussed the role of financial regulation.  Steele spoke with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday.”  For the video, click here.  Rosengren Backs More Rules for Banks Based Outside U.S.  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston President  Eric Rosengren 
spoke about banking regulation and the need for banks based
outside the U.S. to reduce their dependency on short-term
funding.  He spoke in Stockholm at the  Global Interdependence
Center’s Conference on Capital Markets  in the Post Crisis
Environment.  David Kotok , chief investment officer at Cumberland
Advisors Inc., also spoke at the conference.  For the audio, click here.  European Watchdog Says Short-Selling Ban Exceptional, Will End  Short-selling bans in  Europe  will be lifted when markets
“return to normal,” said Steven Maijoor, chairman of the
European Securities and Markets Authority.  Italy and Spain yesterday extended temporary bans on short
selling of financial shares that were introduced last month to
stem market volatility. The Spanish ban will remain “until the
market conditions allow it” to be lifted, according to the
country’s financial regulator. Italy’s restriction, and another
enacted by France in August, will both last until Nov. 11.
Paris-based ESMA coordinates the work of national regulators in
the 27-nation European Union.  “ESMA is together with these relevant countries reviewing
the measure,” Maijoor told journalists in Vienna on Sept. 28.
“It’s considered to be a measure which needs to apply in
special cases,” he added. “I would expect that once the market
returns to normal, they will lift the ban.”  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index has
fallen 10 percent since the ban took effect on Aug. 12.  Bank Regulators Should Be ‘More Radical,’ FSA’s Turner Says  Regulators may need to use unconventional policy tools to
ensure banks don’t cause another credit boom and financial
crisis, a top U.K banking regulator said yesterday.  Adair Turner, chairman of Britain’s Financial Services
Authority, said in a speech to students that supervisors “may
need to be still more radical” in regulating banks’ trading of
complex financial products. He also called for minimum ratios
for measuring risk, known as risk weights, to be applied
globally as part of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s
rules on bank reserves.  “We need to challenge the idea that financial innovation
is axiomatically beneficial in a social as well as private
opportunity sense,” Turner said. “Much of it focuses on the
zero-sum activity of tax avoidance.”  European policy makers have released a series of rules
regulating banks’ trading of derivatives, short-selling and
bonuses in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.  European Watchdog’s Chairman Says Complex ETFs ‘a Concern’  European regulators are concerned retail investors are
buying more complex exchange-traded funds in search of higher
returns, said Steven Maijoor, chairman of the European
Securities and Markets Authority.  There is demand by consumers looking for higher returns and
“there are all kinds of structured products that are a response
to this demand,” Maijoor told journalists in Vienna on Sept.
28. “We can see that more and more complex products end up in
the hands of retail investors,” he added. “That’s a concern
for us.”  ETFs are exchange-listed products that mirror indexes,
commodities, bonds and currencies and allow investors to buy and
sell them like stocks. They became more popular in the aftermath
of the 2008 sell-off that wiped $37 trillion from global equity
markets because they carry lower fees than other funds, require
lower initial investment than futures, can be traded throughout
the day and cover most indexes.  Maijoor said new ETF varieties were more complex than the
straightforward traditional versions and the risks they entailed
for investors and financial stability needed to be analyzed.  Comings and Goings  Prodi Backs Saccomanni to Be New Bank of Italy Governor  Fabrizio Saccomanni may be the best successor to Mario
Draghi as Bank of Italy governor, former European Commission
President  Romano Prodi  said.  Bank of Italy Director General “Saccomanni could be the
best candidate,” Prodi, who twice served as Italian premier,
said yesterday in an interview in Bologna, Italy.  Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s allies publicly clashed
Sept. 28 over the appointment, a month before governor Draghi
leaves to become president of the  European Central Bank . Prodi
spoke to Bloomberg’s Flavia Rotondi in Bologna.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 