-- 
Solyndra Said to Be Investigated by FBI for Possible Accounting Fraud

-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-30T19:04:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/fbi-said-to-be-probing-panel-maker-solyndra-for-possible-accounting-fraud.html
Solyndra LLC, the solar-panel maker
that filed for  bankruptcy protection  two months after executives
extolled its prospects, is being investigated by the FBI for
accounting fraud, an agency official said.  The FBI is examining possible misrepresentations in
financial statements submitted to the Energy Department,
according to the official, who requested anonymity because the
investigation is continuing.  Disclosure of the fraud probe is likely to heighten
Republican criticism of the Obama administration for its
approval of a $535 million U.S. loan guarantee, which the
company used to build a $733 million factory in Fremont,
California, that opened in January.  When construction started, the company said it had a $2
billion backlog in orders for its cylindrical solar modules for
commercial rooftops.  “The company is not aware of any wrongdoing by Solyndra
officers, directors or employees” related to the Energy
Department loan guarantees or other actions and “is cooperating
fully” with the U.S. Attorney in  San Francisco , according to a
Sept. 20 statement from Solyndra.  David Miller , a company
spokesman, didn’t return a phone call and an e-mail seeking
comment yesterday.  Solyndra filed for bankruptcy protection on Sept. 6 and
fired about 1,100 workers with little notice, two years after it
received the loan guarantee. The  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
raided the company’s offices on Sept. 8. The  Justice Department 
hasn’t said why Solyndra is being probed.  White House Pressure  Solyndra’s collapse has prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , whose administration issued final
approval of the loan that also won support from officials in the
administration of  George W. Bush .  Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee,
which has investigated the loan since February, have said the
administration pressured federal loan officers to expedite the
review of Solyndra’s application so it could be promoted as a
stimulus success story.  Representative  Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican and
chairman of the investigations panel, has pointed to connections
between Solyndra and George Kaiser, an Obama fundraiser whose
foundation invested in the solar company.  Spokesmen for the White House and the foundation have
denied Kaiser lobbied for the aid.  Solyndra was the first to receive a guarantee under the
stimulus act. Its loan was the largest award given to a solar
manufacturer under the program.  CEO, Lawmakers  Democrats, who dispute claims politics played a role, have
joined Republicans in criticizing Solyndra Chief Executive
Officer Brian Harrison for what they said were
misrepresentations of the company’s finances in meetings with
lawmakers.  “When Mr. Harrison was in my office in July, he said that
Solyndra’s future was bright, with sales and production
booming,” Representative Henry Waxman of  California , top
Democrat on the Energy committee, said at a Sept. 23 hearing at
which Harrison was a witness. “I’d like to know why he told me
that in July, and then filed for bankruptcy one month later.”  Harrison and Chief Financial Officer Bill Stover invoked
their Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination and
refused to answer questions at the hearing.  Cost Estimates  Companies seeking guarantees were required to estimate
project costs, list private investors and provide a model
detailing cash flows for the life of the project, according to
the 2006  Energy Department  solicitation for loan guarantees.  Solyndra submitted an application in 2006 and added details
in October 2007 after the company was identified during the  Bush
administration  as a potential candidate for a guarantee.  It is unlawful for applicants for federal loan guarantees
to make untrue, misleading or incomplete statements, according
to James F. Bowe Jr., an energy regulatory lawyer with Dewey &
LeBoeuf in  Washington , who isn’t involved in the Solyndra case.  False statements on loan applications are “very common in
terms of fraud investigations the FBI looks at, whether it’s
bank fraud, which is more common, or it’s government fraud,”
said Daniel D. Roberts, a retired FBI assistant director.  Harrison joined Solyndra in July 2010, after Solyndra had
received its loan guarantee and its auditor had warned its
financial difficulties were deep enough to raise questions about
its ability to survive.  ‘Substantial Doubt’  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the company’s auditor, wrote in
a March 16, 2010, filing to the Securities and Exchange
Commission that Solyndra’s “recurring losses” and “negative
cash flows” raised “substantial doubt” about its ability to
“continue as a going concern.”  Caroline Nolan, a spokeswoman for the New York-based audit
company, declined to comment today on the investigation.  The company withdrew a planned initial public offering in
June 2010, citing adverse market conditions. A month earlier,
Obama toured the new manufacturing factory that U.S. aid helped
to build and said Solyndra was a testament to “American
ingenuity and dynamism.”  By December, the company was almost out of cash and sought
to restructure the loan agreement with the Energy Department.
The department at the time knew the company had failed to set
aside $5 million in the first of six payments into a  reserve
fund ,  Damien LaVera , an agency spokesman, said in an e-mail. The
new deal eliminated the payments, he said.  Last-Ditch Bid  The agreement made the government’s debt subordinate to $75
million in private investment. Energy Department officials have
said it was a last-ditch effort to save the company. A
department official joined Solyndra’s board as part of the deal.  Harrison was preceded as CEO by Solyndra founder Chris Gronet. Gronet remained chairman of the company until Aug. 19,
when his departure was announced, 12 days before it halted
operations on Aug. 31.  Gronet, a former executive at  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) ,
expressed anger when action on the loan guarantee was postponed
in January 2009 during the final days of the Bush
administration, Energy Department e-mails show.  “I was appalled to learn on Friday that our application is
being delayed yet again,” Gronet wrote in an e-mail to Steve
Isakowitz, the Energy Department’s chief financial officer, in
the early morning hours on Jan. 12, 2009.  He later spurned an apology from David Frantz, director of
the loan program under Bush, according to an e-mail sent later
that day.  “I find the response completely unacceptable,” Gronet
wrote. “An apology from David is not enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  