-- 
Fed’s Operation Twist Is Failing to Bring Down Unemployment in Global Poll

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-09-30T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/fed-operation-twist-fails-to-reduce-unemployment-in-global-poll.html
Global investors say Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s bond-swap program, known as
Operation Twist, will fail to reduce unemployment as the world’s
largest economy slows.  Seventy-eight percent of respondents say the Fed’s plan to
replace $400 billion of short-term debt with longer-term
Treasuries won’t create jobs for the nation’s 14 million
unemployed, according to the quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of
1,031 investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg
subscribers.  “There’s probably nothing monetary policy can do except
keep the psychology of the market positive,” poll respondent
Jonathan Sadowsky, chief investment officer of Vaca Creek Asset
Management in  San Francisco , said in a follow-up interview.
“The Fed is actually trying something while the politicians are
doing nothing except squabbling.”  Investors are evenly divided on whether Operation Twist is
a good idea or a bad one, and Bernanke remains very popular
among them, more so than other American figures such as
President  Barack Obama  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner .  The central bank, announcing the move last week, said it
was designed to “support a stronger economic recovery,” and it
cited “significant downside risks” to the outlook. The
decision provoked three dissents for the second straight
meeting, posing the most opposition within  Federal Open Market
Committee  in almost 19 years.  Sixty percent of respondents see the  U.S. economy 
deteriorating, and 50 percent said it will relapse into
recession in the next year. Nineteen percent expect another
financial meltdown in that period. Over the next two to five
years, an additional 26 percent expect a crisis.  Record Balance Sheet  The Fed’s efforts so far to support the economy --including
holding its benchmark rate near zero since December 2008 and
expanding its balance sheet to a record $2.88 trillion -- have
done little to reduce unemployment that has hovered near 9
percent since April 2009 or to revive the housing market.  “They’re trying to pump air into a balloon that has a big
hole in it, and that balloon is called housing,” said poll
respondent Richard Bennett, senior vice president of trading at
Stamford, Connecticut-based Rochdale Securities. “It’s not
working.”  Sales of existing homes came to 5.03 million at an annual
rate in August, down from a peak of 7.25 million in September,
2005, before the housing boom turned into a subprime-mortgage
bust that dragged the economy into an 18-month recession.  Home
prices  fell 4.1 percent in July from a year earlier, according
to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities.  Market of Choice  For all the pessimism, the U.S. is still seen as the most
attractive market for many investors. Asked which one or two
countries offer the best opportunities, 30 percent of
respondents identified the U.S. as one of their selections.
China and  Brazil  were picked by 23 percent and 21 percent,
respectively. The European Union was picked as one of the worst
two locations by 53 percent of investors, compared with 21
percent for the  United States .  American society is also seen less vulnerable to upheaval
than  Europe ’s. Asked if economic troubles would lead to “social
instability including riots or other unrest” in the next year,
56 percent said yes for Europe, compared with 14 percent for the
U.S. Eighty-one percent of respondents foresaw European unrest
in the next five years, compared with 43 percent for the U.S.  Outlook for Apple  Investors were polled about how the world’s most valuable
technology company, Apple Inc., would fare now that  Steve Jobs 
has retired as chief executive officer. Forty-five percent were
“generally bullish” on the company while 40 percent were
“generally bearish.”  Asked to compare whether the U.S. or the  euro zone  had done
a better job of handling its economic problems, 67 percent said
the U.S. and 11 percent Europe.  Investors have flocked to  U.S. government debt , with
Treasuries due in 10 or more years returning 23.8 percent as of
Sept. 28, almost matching the 24.4 percent gain in all of 2008
during the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Long-term Treasuries have returned 20.8 percent since June
30, the best quarterly performance since the securities gained
23 percent in the period from April through June 1980.  The 10-year yield fell to a record 1.67 percent on Sept.
23, two days after the Fed’s Sept. 21 announcement of Operation
Twist. The yield has since risen to 2 percent as of 4:59 p.m.
yesterday in  New York . Low Treasury yields have helped reduce
the average 30-year fixed rate mortgage to 4.01 percent, the
cheapest on record in an index from  Freddie Mac .  Unlikely to Default  Consistent with the low Treasury yields, 94 percent of
investors say the U.S. is unlikely to default on its debt. At
the same time, the yields reflect the outlook for slow economic
growth: 56 percent of respondents said a Japan-like lost decade
is “very” or “fairly” likely, up from 38 percent when the
question was asked in September 2010.  Bernanke notched his lowest approval and highest
disapproval levels in investor surveys going back to 2009. Sixty
percent have a favorable view of Bernanke, down from 64 percent
in May. Thirty-seven percent have an unfavorable view, up from
31 percent.  Still, the Fed chief posts higher ratings than Geithner,
with 47 percent; European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet , 45 percent; President Obama, 39 percent; Democrats in
Congress, 25 percent and Republicans, 21 percent.  “The chairman’s popularity remains consistently high,”
said J. Ann Selzer, president of Selzer & Co., a  Des Moines ,
Iowa-based firm that conducted the survey. “His policies are
sometimes panned, but his image remains untarnished to most
investors.”  The quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of investors, traders
and analysts has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  