-- 
Fitch Says No Imminent Upgrade of Turkey Rating; Stocks Drop

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-09-30T14:34:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/fitch-says-no-imminent-upgrade-of-turkey-rating-stocks-drop.html
Fitch Ratings Ltd. said it won’t
upgrade  Turkey ’s credit rating until it sees whether monetary
policy will bring sustainable growth, spurring declines in
stocks and bonds.  Fitch is waiting to see whether the central bank can slow
the economy without prompting a recession, analyst  Ed Parker 
said in a phone interview from  London  today. He made initial
comments to CNBC television. The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  of
shares fell 1.8 percent to 58,699.52 at 4:20 p.m. Two-year bond
yields rose 6 basis points to 8.40 percent, climbing for the
first day in four.  “It is still uncertain whether Turkey can engineer the
right balance from slowing down from a previous unsustainable
pace of expansion to a sustainable pace,” Parker said. “The
key element is monetary policy, whether the central bank has got
it right in terms of trying to steer the economy.”  Rate Cuts  The central bank has cut  interest rates  three times since
December, by a total of 1.25 percentage points to 5.75 percent,
and at the same time raised banks’ reserve requirements to slow
an expansion in loans that has widened the current account
deficit to a record. The economy grew 8.8 percent annually in
the second quarter, faster than  India ’s 7.7 percent. The current
account gap widened to $74.6 billion in the 12 months through
July, or about 10 percent of gross domestic product.  Turkish shares had rallied for four days this week on bets
that the country will get another ratings increase.  Standard &
Poor’s  assigned an investment-grade ranking to local-currency
debt last week.  Fitch, which ranks Turkey one level below investment grade,
had put the country under review for a possible upgrade at the
end of 2010.  Investment grade is “certainly possible” within the next
12 months, Parker said. “We have been saying for a year now the
key question for us is whether Turkey can achieve a healthy,
sustainable growth rate without major macroeconomic imbalances
such as high inflation and large current account deficit.”  Standard & Poor’s is also tracking the economy’s
“resilience” against the likely slowdown before it upgrades
its rating for Turkish long-term foreign-currency debt, analyst
 Frank Gill  said in an interview on Sept. 21.  Turkey’s inflation rate increased to 6.7 percent in August,
the highest since May, from 6.3 percent in July, the statistics
agency reported on Sept. 5. A probable slowdown for inflation
during September will be temporary, central bank governor Erdem
Basci said in televised remarks today from the northwestern city
of Edirne.  GDP may grow 7.5 percent this year, the  International
Monetary Fund  said on Sept. 22. The Washington-based lender
forecast 2.5 percent economic expansion for 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  