-- 
Geo Group Falls as Florida Prison Privatization Is Blocked

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-30T22:54:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/florida-s-privatization-contract-for-29-prisons-blocked-by-state-judge.html
Geo Group Inc. (GEO) , the Florida-based
private prison operator, fell as much as 5 percent after a judge
blocked the state’s plan to pursue privatization at as many as
29 prisons in 18 counties.  The legislature’s move to bury key details on privatization
in the state budget is unconstitutional, Leon County Circuit
Court Judge Jackie Fulford in Tallahassee ruled. The 2012 budget
provision changes the legal process for privatizing facilities
and directs the Department of Corrections to replace state
employees with private ones at certain prisons.  “This court concludes that if it is the will of the
legislature to itself initiate privatization of Florida prisons,
as opposed to DOC, the legislature must do so by general law,
rather than using the hidden recesses of the General
Appropriations Act,” Fulford said in the ruling.  The ruling is a setback for prison operators such as Boca
Raton-based Geo Group, which said last month that it would
invest as much as $3 million to compete for a contract to
privatize more than 16,000 beds in South  Florida .  Abraham Cohen, a Geo spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling.  After falling as low as $18.32 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Geo shares
fell 68 cents or 3.5 percent to $18.56.  Florida’s Department of Corrections today suspended its
request for bids from private operators until further notice.
The state was expected to open bids on Oct. 4, department
spokeswoman Gretl Plessinger said in a phone interview. The
department is reviewing Fulford’s decision, Plessinger said.  ‘Next Steps’  “We’re trying to determine what next steps we need to
take,” Plessinger said.  The department had sought one contract for a private
operator for all 29 facilities, according to Fulford’s ruling.  Correctional officers accused state leaders of trying to
skirt debate on the issue by folding details of the
privatization plan into a part of the bill that’s generally
reserved for a summary of its contents.  “It’s certainly a win for us,” Kelly Overstreet Johnson,
an attorney for the Florida Police Benevolent Association, said
in a phone interview. “We recognize it’s likely going to be
appealed so this is the first stop.”  The association, which represents correction and police
officers in the state, has argued that the state’s actions were
unconstitutional and likely were a result of not having enough
votes to privatize the facilities. The group contends the state
failed to follow appropriate procedures such as vetting the
proposal through committees, doing a cost-benefit analysis and
providing an opportunity for public input.  The case is Baiardi v. Tucker, in his capacity as Secretary
of the Florida Department of Corrections, 2011CA1838, Circuit
Court of the Second Judicial Circuit (Leon County) Florida.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  