-- 
FL Panel Sets Jan. 31 Primary, Speeding Race

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-10-01T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/florida-panel-sets-jan-31-primary-accelerating-nominating-race.html
New Hampshire , prompted by Florida’s
decision to hold its primary on Jan. 31 in defiance of national
Republican Party rules, is threatening to advance its
presidential nominating contest to this year’s holiday season.  “If we have to go in December, we’re going to go in
December, because our law and our tradition is going to be
upheld,” New Hampshire Secretary of State William Gardner said
in an interview yesterday. He was referring to New Hampshire’s
customary status as the state conducting the nation’s first
primary.  Gardner said following Florida’s decision that he is moving
up the filing period for candidates to qualify for the New
Hampshire contest “because we cannot rule out the possibility
of conducting the primary before the end of this year.”
Candidates will have to file paperwork Oct. 17-28 to be on New
Hampshire’s ballot.  While primary calendar experts and Republican officials
doubt the nominating process will start before year’s end,
Gardner’s reaction underscored the degree to which  Florida ’s
move -- cemented by a state commission’s 7-2 vote -- has the
potential to set off a domino effect among states, accelerating
the presidential calendar.  Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus is
still talking to states about the timing of their contests,
senior party officials said prior to today’s deadline for the
committee to submit primary plans.  Uncertain Schedule  Gardner said he didn’t intend to submit anything, given the
uncertainty now surrounding the primary schedule.  The Florida panel’s goal was to “put Florida in a
prominent position on the primary calendar and in the election
overall,” Chris Cate, a spokesman for the secretary of state,
said in an interview.  Lenny Curry, chairman of Florida’s  Republican Party , said
the date “properly reflects the importance Florida will play on
the national stage.” In a statement, Curry said Florida --
which will host the Republican convention next August in Tampa -
- “will be the most important state in our efforts to defeat”
President  Barack Obama  in the general election.  Holiday Season Crunch  Florida’s move is likely to shift the start of voting in
the Republican race a month earlier than national party leaders
had intended, condensing a number of important contests into
January and creating a holiday-season campaign crunch that
officials and candidates had hoped to avoid.  Still, the party said its objective of creating a more
inclusive, broad-based nominating process was being met.  “While the primaries will now start earlier than planned,
the overarching goal of the current rules was to allow more
states and voters to have a role in choosing the next Republican
nominee for president,” said RNC spokeswoman Kirsten Kukowski.  Iowa , New Hampshire,  South Carolina  and  Nevada  are now
expected to move up the dates of their nominating contests to
early or mid-January to maintain their status as the first four
states voting in the race. The Iowa caucuses, which
traditionally start the process, were tentatively set for Feb.
6.  Chad Connelly, chairman of South Carolina’s Republican
Party, has said he wants to set his state’s contest as late as
possible in the process while still ahead of Florida -- probably
Jan. 28 -- so that its primary remains the first in the South.  Traditional Dates  The RNC has forbidden any except the traditional first four
from setting a primary date prior to March 6. According to its
rules, any state that leapfrogs that date will lose half of its
delegates to the convention. The threat has proved unconvincing
in past campaigns because a nominee can request that
disqualified delegates’ voting rights be restored, and Florida
Republican leaders were unmoved by the possible penalty.  “Making certain that Florida and its unique and diverse
voters are critical players in the overall selection process of
the next president is more important than a possible reduction
in the number of delegate votes,” Florida House Majority Leader
Carlos Lopez-Cantera, a Republican and a member of the
commission, said in a statement after the vote on the primary
date.  Florida held its primary on Jan. 29 in 2008, and Arizona
Senator  John McCain ’s victory there helped seal his eventual
nomination in the Republican race. To keep their status as sites
of the initial nomination contests that year, Iowa held its
caucuses Jan. 3 and New Hampshire followed with its primary five
days later, spurring complaints that the contests were too close
to the holiday season and to each other.  March 6 for Georgia  Georgia Secretary of State Brian Kemp announced two days
ago his state would hold its primary on March 6, to keep its
relevance in the nominating process without breaking party
rules.  “I want to stress that we have committed in good faith by
abiding by the rules set forth by the RNC, so that  Georgia  will
not suffer a loss of delegates, and I highly encourage the RNC
to enforce the rules,” Kemp said.  If states that flout the scheduling requirements aren’t
penalized next year, Georgia would disregard the rules in the
future, Kemp said. “There’s going to be hell to pay, if you
will, in four years.”  Two other states have already ignored the rules to jump
ahead on the primary calendar. Arizona and  Michigan  have said
they will set their balloting for Feb. 28. 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  