-- 
Foreign Maids Win Court Challenge in Hong Kong Seeking Permanent Residency

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-09-30T10:06:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/foreign-maids-win-court-challenge-in-hong-kong-seeking-permanent-residency.html
A  Hong Kong  judge handed a landmark
victory to a Philippine maid, ruling restrictions barring her
from applying for permanent residency were unconstitutional in a
case that polarized public opinion over the rights of foreign
domestic helpers.  Evangeline Banao Vallejos, who has lived in Hong Kong for
25 years, challenged the rejection of her application, and asked
the court why expatriates such as bankers and cooks could gain
permanent status after seven years. Judge Johnson Lam ruled in
her favor today. The government said it would appeal.  In his ruling, Judge Lam said the decision could affect
117,000 people, more than a third of the maids working in Hong
Kong. At least three political parties said an influx would
strain the Chinese city’s health care, public housing and
education resources.  “We are disappointed at today’s judgment,” said Joseph
Law, chairman of the Employers of Domestic Helpers Association
in Hong Kong. “We can’t accommodate such a sudden influx of
population as this would impose a profound strain on our
resources.”  The ruling comes as Hong Kong suffered its first economic
contraction since 2009 in the second quarter. Households are
also squeezed by higher food and rent prices, with inflation up
5.7 percent in August.  Basic Law  Judge Lam ruled the immigration law that bars foreign
domestic helpers from eligibility for permanent residency
“derogates” the meaning of the Basic Law. The Basic Law is the
de-facto constitution that Hong Kong adopted after the British
handed the city of 7.1 million residents back to  China .  Foreign domestic helpers  are required  to live with their
employers and can’t accept other jobs. In 2004, maids
contributed HK$13.8 billion ($1.8 billion) to the economy,
or one percent of Hong Kong’s output, according to a report by
the Asian Migrant Centre, a non-governmental organization. The
law mandates a minimum monthly wage of HK$3,740 ($480).  The Hong Kong government plans to appeal against the ruling,
Ambrose Lee, the secretary for security, told reporters today.  Legal Right  A Hong Kong permanent resident has a legal right to live in
the city without a visa, take any jobs, study, or establish a
business. The resident has access to benefits such as public
housing and social security, and can vote.  “This could lead to enormous pressure on our medical,
educational and welfare system, imposing social and economic
problems,” said Paul Tse, a lawmaker for the  tourism industry .  Still, applications have to be approved by immigration and
the maids will need to show they treat Hong Kong as their only
permanent place of abode, said Eric Cheung, assistant professor
in law at the University of Hong Kong.  “The notion that all 117,000 of those domestic helpers
would qualify to work in other professions or choose to leave
their current work is unrealistic,” said Rick Glofcheski, an
associate professor of labor and tort law at University of Hong
Kong.  In Hong Kong, about 567,000 work in the retail, food and
accomodation industries, and should all 117,000 helpers enter
those sectors, that would have an impact, Glofcheski said.
That’s unlikely, he said.  Government lawyer David Pannick argued that Hong Kong’s
Basic Law allows lawmakers to determine the status of foreign
residents and that the maid wasn’t eligible to apply.  The special administrative region was guaranteed an
independent judiciary for 50 years under the “one country, two
systems” framework following the handover in 1997.  Beijing Interpretation  The  Liberal Party  and the leader for New People’s Party,
Regina Ip, have previously called on the government to consider
seeking an interpretation of the Basic Law by China’s Standing
Committee of the National People’s Congress over the case.  “The ruling seemingly will have a huge impact, as many are
worried that this would suddenly open the door to many
foreigners,” said Cheung at the University of Hong Kong. “My
concern is that such worries are overplayed to pave the way
for the government to seek interpretation from Beijing, which
would seriously undermine our judicial autonomy and
independence.”  The rights of immigrants have been challenged before, and
China has overturned decisions taken by the Hong Kong court.
In 1999 the Court of Final Appeal ruled that mainlanders did not
need China’s permission to enter Hong Kong as permanent
residents, a decision that was reversed by Beijing.  The case is Vallejos Evangeline Banao and Commissioner of
Registration, HCAL124/2010 in Hong Kong’s Court of First
Instance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  