-- 
Forint Extends Biggest Quarterly Loss in 2 Years on Budget Worry

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-30T15:25:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/forint-extends-biggest-quarterly-loss-in-2-years-on-budget-worry.html
The forint weakened, extending the
biggest quarterly slide in more than two years on concern the
economy won’t strengthen as much as the government assumed in
the 2012 budget presented to parliament today.  The Hungarian currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 293.7 per
euro as of 4:52 p.m. in Budapest, extending its loss this
quarter to 9.4 percent, the most since the three months through
March 2009.  Hungary’s 2012 budget, which the government sent to
parliament today, assumes growth in gross domestic product of
1.5 percent, underlying a plan to cut the deficit to 2.5 percent
of GDP from 4.3 percent last year. While the budget “can
handle” a lower growth rate than 1.5 percent, the Cabinet
doesn’t expect the economy to slide into recession, Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  told reporters today.  “There is a fear that the government planned the budget
with excessive optimism,” Matyas Kovacs, an economist at
Raiffeisen Bank International AG in Budapest, said in a
telephone interview today. Raiffeisen expects Hungarian GDP to
contract by 1 percent next year, he added.  The European Commission called on Hungary yesterday to
abolish a tax on telecommunication operators, saying it is
illegal under European Union rules as the revenue is used for
the government’s central budget and not for meeting the specific
costs of regulating the industry.  “The news on the budget side has not been reassuring in
recent days,” Kovacs said. “Matolcsy’s press conference today
had no positive impact on Hungarian assets, it was rather
disappointing,” he added.  Hungary ’s government bonds maturing in June 2022 slumped,
lifting the yield 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to
8.29 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  