-- 
Francona Out as Red Sox Manager After Eight Years, Two World Series Titles

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-10-01T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/francona-is-out-as-red-sox-manager-after-eight-years-two-championships.html
Terry Francona’s career as Boston Red
Sox manager, which included two World Series championships,
ended when he failed to stop the biggest September collapse in
the history of  Major League Baseball .  The Red Sox said yesterday they won’t exercise their option
to extend Francona’s contract for the 2012 and 2013 seasons,
ending an eight-season term for Francona that began with the
team’s first championship since 1918 and ended with them blowing
a nine-game lead for a playoff spot in September.  “They need a new voice,” Francona told reporters last
night. “After eight years, there’s probably a person who can be
more effective.”  Francona, 52, was 744-552 in eight seasons with the team.
He won World Series titles in 2004 and 2007, and made the
playoffs five times.  “I just thought it was time. To be honest, I’m not sure
how much support there was from ownership,” he said in a news
conference. “You have to be all in in this job. It’s got to be
everyone together, and I was questioning that a little bit.”  The  Red Sox  led the  Tampa Bay Rays  by nine games for the AL
wild-card playoff spot on Sept. 4 and went 7-20 in September,
missing the playoffs on the season’s final day. The collapse was
the biggest in the final month of a season, according to the
Elias Sports Bureau.  ‘Doesn’t Feel Good’  Boston was eliminated on Sept. 28, the final game of the
regular season, when the team surrendered two runs in the bottom
of the ninth inning against the  Baltimore Orioles  and the Rays
rallied from seven runs down to beat the  New York Yankees  in
extra innings.  “We’ll go down in history as one of the worst collapses,”
Red Sox left fielder  Carl Crawford  told reporters after the
season. “It definitely doesn’t feel good to be part of that.”  The Red Sox acquired Crawford and first baseman  Adrian Gonzalez , both four-time All-Stars, in the offseason last year
and lost the first six games of the 2011 season, their worst
start since 1945. They recovered to claim a share of the AL East
division lead with the Yankees on May 26, and competed for the
top spot with New York before the late-season collapse.  Boston’s seven wins in 27 games in the season’s final month
was its worst performance since it finished 1952 with the same
record in September.  Francona spent 10 years as a first baseman and outfielder
with five teams prior to coaching. He managed the  Philadelphia
Phillies  from 1997-2000 before being hired by the Red Sox before
the start of the 2004 season.  “He proved to be an unflappable leader for our major
league club, displaying consistency, calmness, hard work,
thoughtfulness, a sense of humor, and faith in the players even
at the most difficult of times,” Red Sox General Manager Theo Epstein said in a team release. “Without Tito’s commitment over
eight years, we would not be the organization we are today.
Nobody at the Red Sox blames Tito for what happened at the end
of this season; we own that as an organization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  