-- 
Gasoline Falls on Concern That Global Economy, Fuel Use Slowing

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-09-30T15:13:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/gasoline-falls-on-concern-that-global-economy-fuel-use-slowing.html
Gasoline slid on reports that U.S.
consumer spending slowed and Chinese manufacturing slipped,
indicating less global growth and a drop in fuel demand.  Futures declined as the Commerce Department reported that
August consumer purchases rose 0.2 percent after a 0.7 percent
increase in July. A gauge of Chinese manufacturing shrank for a
third month. European inflation jumped to the highest level in
almost three years in September as the region’s leaders try to
contain a worsening sovereign debt crisis.  “There’s all this uncertainty, and it’s still in the back
of everyone’s head that we’re heading for a global recession,”
said Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount Options Inc. in
New York.  Gasoline for October delivery declined 2.42 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $2.595 a gallon at 10:50 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices touched $2.5769.  The more actively traded November contract fell 2.86 cents,
or 1.1 percent, to $2.53 a gallon. October gasoline and heating
oil contracts expire at the end of floor trading today.  Futures have lost 14 percent in September and in the third
quarter on concern that the U.S. economic recovery has stalled
and the European debt crisis that began in  Greece  would spread,
endangering the region’s economy and reducing global growth.  Incomes Drop  The Commerce Department report showed that U.S. incomes
unexpectedly dropped for the first time in almost two years. A
report yesterday showed that U.S. consumer confidence slid to
the second-lowest on record. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index dropped to minus 53 in the period ended Sept. 25 from
minus 52.1 the prior week.  “There are further signals the  U.S. economy  is slowing,”
McGillian said.  The euro-area inflation rate jumped to 3 percent this month
from 2.5 percent in August, the European Union’s  statistics
office  in Luxembourg said today in an initial estimate. That’s
the biggest annual increase in consumer prices since October
2008.  “We have disappointing economic signals and there still
remains a great deal of uncertainty in  Europe ,” said  Gene
McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Chinese Manufacturing  The reading of 49.9 for the September Chinese purchasing
managers’ index, released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics today, was unchanged from August and compared with a
preliminary 49.4 figure published last week.  The drop in futures coincided with a broad decline in
equities and commodities and a surge in the dollar, which
reduces the investment appeal of commodities.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials lost 2.1 percent at
10:57 a.m. in  New York  and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
stocks fell 1.2 percent. The U.S. currency advanced 1.2 percent
against the euro.  October-delivery heating oil fell 2.31 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $2.795 a gallon. The November contract lost 1.96
cents, or 0.7 percent, to $2.807.  Futures have lost 9.2 percent this month and are down 4.7
percent for the quarter.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, dropped
1 cent to $3.445 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.
Prices have declined every day since Sept. 9 and are the lowest
since March 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  