-- 
German Bonds Advance as Stocks, Retail Sales Decline; Belgian Notes Gain

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-09-30T15:38:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/german-government-bonds-rise-as-retail-sales-decline-adds-to-debt-concern.html
German bonds rose, paring the
biggest weekly decline in three months, as stocks fell around
the world and a report showed retail sales in the region’s
largest economy slumped in August.  German two-year notes, perceived to be among Europe’s
safest securities, snapped a four-day drop after data today
showed  China ’s manufacturing contracted and U.S. consumer
spending slowed. Belgian two-year notes rose for an eighth day
on optimism eight-party talks will lead to a lower  budget
deficit . Irish debt headed for the best quarterly return among
26 markets tracked by European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies indexes.  “It’s a combination of fears that a recession could be
imminent and at the same time about the ongoing crisis and how
policy makers are reacting,” said Elwin de Groot, a senior
market economist at Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht. “Much can
still go wrong at this stage and in this sense we are keeping a
bullish view on bunds.”  The yield on 10-year bunds slid 12 basis points to 1.89
percent at 4:25 p.m. in London, trimming this week’s increase to
14 basis points, the most since the period ending July 1. The
2.25 percent security due September 2021 rose 1.11, or 11.10
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,342) face amount, to 103.275. Two-year
yields dropped five basis points to 0.55 percent.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index of shares lost 1.6 percent, and
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.9 percent.  Retail Sales  Bunds advanced along with  U.S. Treasuries  after the Federal
Statistics Office said German retail sales fell 2.9 percent last
month. HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said their Chinese
purchasing managers’ index was unchanged at 49.9 in September, a
third month it has stayed below 50 which indicates a
contraction. U.S. consumer spending rose 0.2 percent after a 0.7
percent increase in July, the Commerce Department said.  Bonds in  Germany  and other so-called core euro-region
countries have rallied in the last three months as data added to
speculation the European economy is slipping back into recession
and leaders remained divided over how to solve the debt crisis.  German bunds have returned 7.2 percent this quarter,
according to the indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Irish government
debt gained 29 percent, Italian bonds have dropped 4.3 percent,
and Greek bonds have tumbled 25 percent.  Belgian Bonds  Belgian two-year notes rose for an eighth day after
caretaker Prime Minister  Yves Leterme  said this week that Elio Di Rupo, the president of the country’s French-speaking
Socialist Party, and his coalition negotiators may be ready with
a 2012 budget by the end of October.  The two-year yield slid five basis points to 1.80 percent
after dropping to 1.75 percent, the lowest level since Dec. 9.  “You’ve seen people reallocating back to names that
they’re more comfortable with in the periphery and  Belgium  is
one of those,” said  Harvinder Sian , senior interest-rate
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “The political
situation certainly does help in that regard.”  Greek two-year notes rose for a fourth day, with the yield
falling 307 basis points to 62.17 percent. The 10-year yield
dropped two basis points to 22.66 percent.  Irish two-year notes fell for the first time in a week,
pushing the yield up 42 basis points to 7.46 percent. The rate
has still declined 167 basis points over the past five days.  Austrian Approval  Austria  today became the latest country to authorize the
expanded powers for the European rescue fund, the European
Financial Stability Facility. Countries yet to ratify the
changes are Malta, the Netherlands and Slovakia.  “We still see quite a lot of risks surrounding the
Europeans,” said  Andrew Balls , head of European  portfolio
management  at Pacific Investment Management Co. “The EFSF is a
positive step but at the same time they’re talking about
reopening the debate on Greek haircuts and that could be
destabilizing in the short term” He spoke in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with  Francine Lacqua .  Volatility on German sovereign debt was the highest among
euro-area markets today, according to measures of 10-year bonds,
two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps. The
yield change in the nation’s 10-year bonds was 2.2 times the 90-
day average, the Bloomberg gauge showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in  London  at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 