-- 
German Retail Sales Drop Most in More Than Four Years on Crisis Concerns

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-09-30T11:06:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/german-retail-sales-drop-most-in-more-than-four-years-on-crisis-concerns.html
German retail sales declined the
most in more than four years in August as concerns about the
economic impact of  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis sapped
consumers’ willingness to spend.  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, slumped
2.9 from July, when they rose 0.3 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. That’s the biggest
drop since May 2007. Economists forecast sales would fall 0.5
percent, according to the median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Sales rose 2.2 percent in the year.  The debt crisis is threatening to tip Europe back into
recession, damping confidence even as falling German
unemployment boosts household purchasing power in Europe’s
largest economy. While a possible Greek default has clouded the
outlook, the Bundesbank still predicts a “robust” third
quarter and growth of about 3 percent this year.  The retail sales figures “are volatile and don’t reflect
that the trend remains positive as consumer confidence is
actually holding up relatively well,” said  Christian Schulz , an
economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co in London. “However,
the crisis may prompt households to postpone some big-ticket
purchases this winter.”  The euro declined after the release and traded at $1.3495
at 1 p.m. in  Frankfurt , down 0.7 percent on the day. German
retail stocks fell, extending the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) ’s biggest
quarterly drop in nine years.  ‘Close to Standstill’  Metro AG,  Germany ’s largest retailer, sank 5 percent to
31.69 euros. Hugo Boss AG’s preferred shares plummeted 8.7
percent to 62.62 euros, the largest drop in six weeks for the
luxury-clothing company. Adidas AG, the world’s second-largest
sporting-goods maker, slid 2.9 percent to 44.90 euros.  The European Commission on Sept. 15 cut its euro-region
growth forecasts for the second half and warned the economy,
Germany’s biggest export market, may come “close to standstill
at year-end.” The  International Monetary Fund  in  Washington  on
Sept. 20 also lowered its growth projections for the euro region
and Germany for this year and next.   Deutsche Lufthansa AG on Sept. 20 reduced its full-year
profit forecast and said it would deepen capacity cuts this
winter after last month’s results were weaker than expected and
forward bookings slumped.  Consumer spending in the U.S. probably slowed in August as
growing pessimism and a lack of jobs restrained the biggest part
of the economy, economists said. Purchases rose 0.2 percent
after a 0.8 percent gain in July, according to the median
estimate of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. That
report is due at 8:30 a.m. in Washington today.  ‘Full Tilt’  Still, French  consumer spending  on manufactured goods
climbed in August on expectations economic growth may recover.
Household spending on industrial products rose 0.2 percent,
after declining 0.2 percent in July, national statistics office
Insee said today. Economists expected a 0.1 percent gain.  Germany’s jobless rate fell to 6.9 percent this month, the
lowest since the country’s reunification two decades ago, as
companies stepped up hiring to meet export orders.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  Chief Financial Officer
Friedrich Eichiner told reporters on Sept. 8 that the Munich-
based carmaker’s plants are “working at full tilt.” German
rival Audi AG is hiring staff to boost output, and sports-car
maker Porsche AG is seeking to fill about 130 engineering
positions at its Leipzig factory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  