-- 
Germany Stocks Fall, Extending Biggest Quarterly Drop Since 2002

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-09-30T16:16:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/germany-stocks-fall-extending-biggest-quarterly-drop-since-2002.html
German stocks fell, extending the
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) ’s biggest quarterly drop in nine years, as a
decline in the nation’s retail sales increased concern the
global economy is slowing.  Metro AG (MEO)  and  Adidas AG (ADS)  retreated after German retail sales
declined the most in more than four years in August.  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  dropped as a gauge of Chinese
manufacturing shrank for a third month.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  slid
following a report in Handelsblatt that the company may cut its
profit goal for this year.  The DAX fell 2.4 percent to 5,502.02 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in  Frankfurt . The gauge slumped 25 percent this quarter, the
most since 2002, amid concern global growth is stumbling and
policy makers are struggling to contain the European debt
crisis. The broader HDAX Index lost 2.6 percent today.  “Consumer sentiment is coming down rapidly,” Heino Ruland, an economist at Ruland Research GmbH in Eppstein,
 Germany , wrote in a report today. “Recent public talk about a
looming recession in the euro area and the U.S. has lifted
unemployment expectations considerably. Fears over the state of
the global economy are beginning to take its toll.”  The DAX today erased the 1.1 percent gain it posted
yesterday, when lawmakers backed an extended euro-region bailout
fund. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index has tumbled 22 percent since
February as concern grows that  Greece  will default and the cost
of borrowing for countries from  Spain  to Italy surges.  Debt Crisis  While a resolution of Europe’s debt crisis “would remove
uncertainty, it would not make us fully confident that a return
to stable and strong growth can be achieved,” Fredrik Nerbrand,
global head of  asset allocation  at HSBC Holdings Plc in London,
wrote in a report. “The negative feedback loop should amplify
the deteriorating economic cycle, causing risk premiums to rise.
We believe markets will be held hostage by growth concerns for
the rest of this year.”  Metro, Germany’s largest retailer, fell 4.3 percent to
31.93 euros, its first decline in five days. Adidas, the world’s
second-largest sporting-goods maker, dropped 1 percent to 45.78
euros.  Retail sales in Germany, adjusted for inflation and
seasonal swings, slumped 2.9 percent last month from July, when
they rose 0.3 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. That’s the biggest drop since May 2007.
Economists forecast a 0.5 percent decline, according to the
median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  BMW, Daimler  BMW, maker of the X3 sport-utility vehicle, lost 5.3
percent to 49.97 euros. Daimler, maker of the Mercedes-Benz
cars, lost 3.4 percent to 33.63 euros.  Hugo Boss AG (BOS) , which sells
clothing under the brands Boss, Hugo, and Baldessarini, tumbled
12 percent to 60.28 euros.  A gauge of Chinese manufacturing contracted for a third
month in September, the longest contraction since 2009, as
measures of new orders and export demand declined. All three
German companies sell to the Asian nation.  The reading of 49.9 for the purchasing managers’ index,
released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today, was
unchanged from August and compared with a preliminary 49.4
figure published last week. The gauge was below 50, the level
that separates expansion from contraction, for eight months
through March 2009.  Deutsche Bank  Deutsche Bank fell 6.8 percent to 26.32 euros, the worst
performance in the DAX. The country’s biggest bank may lower its
target for achieving a record 10 billion euros ($13.6 billion)
in profit this year, Handelsblatt reported, citing unidentified
people close to the management board.  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  is due to provide
an assessment of the current market situation on Oct. 4 at a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch conference in London, the
newspaper said. Christian Streckert, a spokesman for the bank,
declined to comment on “market speculation,” when reached by
phone today by Bloomberg News.  Speaking at an event in Zurich today, Ackermann said the
financial industry is facing a “tectonic shift” and share
prices of banks reflect mistrust and recession trends.  K+S AG,  Europe ’s largest potash producer and a maker of
agriculture fertilizers, declined 5 percent to 39.58 euros. A
U.S. government report showed bigger wheat inventories in the
country than forecast, signaling importers and millers may be
reducing purchases.  Inventories totaled 2.15 billion bushels on Sept. 1, more
than the 2.071 billion forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said today. In a
separate report, the USDA cut its estimate of domestic output by
3.3 percent. Yesterday, the agency said U.S. wheat exports slid
37 percent in the week ended Sept. 22, from a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  