-- 
Goldman’s O’Neill Sees G-20 Coordinated Rate Cuts at November Meeting

-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s   a n d   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 
2011-09-30T19:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/goldman-s-o-neill-sees-g-20-coordinated-rate-cuts-at-november-meeting.html
The Group of 20 nations may agree
to take coordinated measures to ease monetary policy at their
November meeting as global growth slows, according to Goldman
Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill .  “Central banks have to be forward looking,” said O’Neill
in an interview in  London  today. “I wouldn’t be completely
surprised if we had some kind of coordinated move at the
November meeting and, if there were,  Brazil  would definitely
play a role in that.”  Brazil’s central bank unexpectedly cut the Selic benchmark
interest rate by half a percentage point to 12 percent on Aug.
31 as the risk of recession in Europe and the U.S. shifted
policy makers’ focus away from the fastest inflation in six
years. Turkey and Israel have also lowered rates to protect
their economies from the impact of Europe’s debt problems.  Brazil’s decision to cut the benchmark rate was “quite
smart,” O’Neill said. The probability of the country meeting
its inflation target of 4.5 percent next year has “risen
significantly” because of the global economic crisis, he said.  Europe ’s debt crisis led investors to dump emerging market
assets in the past two months, pushing the real down 18 percent
against the dollar since the end of July. The Brazilian currency
had gained 13 percent in the previous 12 months.  The real needs to weaken a further 10 percent to 15 percent
to make Brazilian stocks more “interesting,” according to
O’Neill, who ranks Brazil in “rising third” place for equity
investment among the so-called BRIC nations, behind  China  and
Russia and ahead of India. China is the “most compelling” and
“very cheap,” said O’Neill, who coined the term BRIC in 2001.  “If we had a further decline in the real, I think the
Brazilian stock market would look more interesting than it has
for a year,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Price in London 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  