-- 
Gome Falls Most in Three Years After Credit Suisse Downgrade

-- B y   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-09-30T11:28:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/gome-falls-most-in-three-years-after-credit-suisse-downgrade-1-.html
Gome Electrical Appliances Holding
Ltd. fell the most in almost three years in  Hong Kong  as Credit
Suisse Group AG downgraded the Chinese appliance retailer’s
stock over corporate governance concerns.  Gome declined 22 percent, the most since Oct. 6, 2008, to
close at HK$1.83 on the city’s stock exchange. The benchmark
 Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell 2.3 percent.  Credit Suisse downgraded Gome’s stock to “neutral” from
“outperform” yesterday after the company said it will form a
venture with billionaire founder  Huang Guangyu , who is serving a
14-year prison sentence on bribery and insider trading charges.
The deal raises questions about transparency and funding, Kevin Yin, an analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. “Who controls Gome?” he wrote.  Gome spokesman He Yangqing was not immediately available
for comment. A call and a message to the mobile phone of Zou Xiaochun, an executive director of the company, went unanswered.  The venture aims to increase the number of stores on
“self-owned” properties in  China  in a bid to lower its
operating costs and increase its profit margin. Yin lowered his
share-price estimate for Gome, China’s second-largest
electronics retailer, to HK$2.50 from the previous HK$4.30.  “We believe that purchasing floors within a finished
construction project is much more sensible than developing a
whole commercial building,” Yin wrote.  Boardroom Battle  Huang, Gome’s biggest shareholder, won a boardroom battle
with Gome’s previous chairman  Chen Xiao  from prison earlier this
year to reassert his influence.  Gome plans 260 new shops this year and aims for 2,400
outlets by 2014, President Wang Jun Zhou said Aug. 29. The
number of stores rose to 938 at the end of June from 826 at the
end of 2010, according to an exchange filing last month.  Huang, also known as Wong Kwong Yu, owns almost a third of
Gome with his wife Lisa  Du Juan , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  