-- 
Graceway Pharmaceuticals Wins Approval of Bankruptcy Loan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-09-30T17:46:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/graceway-pharmaceuticals-wins-court-approval-of-bankruptcy-loan.html
Graceway Pharmaceuticals LLC, a
maker of skin treatments and asthma medication, won court
approval of a $6 million bankruptcy loan to help fund operations
while the company seeks to sell its assets.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Peter J. Walsh approved the
financing, which will be provided by a Canadian affiliate of
Graceway, at hearing today in Wilmington,  Delaware . Walsh also
approved the use of cash representing collateral for lenders.  The Canadian affiliate will enter receivership in  Canada  to
aid the sale process. The loan and cash collateral are needed to
avoid any “immediate and irreparable harm” and “if we do not
draw on those funds before the receivership hearing we will not
have access to those funds,” Caroline A. Reckler, a lawyer for
closely held Graceway, told Walsh.  Graceway, based in Bristol,  Tennessee , listed debt of as
much as $1 billion and assets of as much as $500 million in
Chapter 11 documents filed yesterday. Plunging sales following
the loss of patent protection on its top-selling product led to
the bankruptcy, Graceway said in court papers.  The company has agreed to sell virtually all of its U.S.
and Canadian assets for about $275 million to Cham, Switzerland-
based Galderma SA, according to court documents. Graceway plans
to hold an auction to seek better offers.  More Bids  “We believe there will be more than one bidder and hope
that the price will rise,” Josef S. Athanas, another Graceway
lawyer, told Walsh.  Graceway owes about $430.7 million to lenders with a first
priority of repayment, court papers show. The drugmaker owes
about $330 million to second-lien lenders and about
$81.4 million to unsecured mezzanine lenders represented by
Goldman Sachs Credit Partners LP as agent.  Trade and general unsecured creditors are owed about
$30 million.  The case is In re Graceway Pharmaceuticals LLC, 11-13036,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 