-- 
Greek Protesters Block Ministry Access, Complicating Loan Review

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-09-30T11:22:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/greek-protesters-block-ministry-access-complicating-loan-review.html
Greek civil servants and unions
opposed to Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s new round of wage
and pension cuts occupied government offices for a second day,
blocking access for officials seeking to determine whether the
country qualifies for an international loan to avert default.  The officials from the European Union, the  International
Monetary Fund  and the  European Central Bank , known as the
“troika,” were unable to enter the Transport Ministry in
 Athens  today after protesters seized the building, footage on
state-run NET TV showed. The troika rescheduled its meeting to
later in the day, according to state-run Athens News Agency.  State workers also blocked access to the Finance Ministry,
the General Accounting Office, the Hellenic Statistical
Authority and other offices, Greek media reported. The protests
are preventing officials from gathering data for the review
required before  Greece  can receive its latest emergency loan of
8 billion euros ($10.8 billion), originally due this month.  The troika is reviewing progress on issues from opening up
closed professions to tax collection set under the terms of last
year’s 110 billion-euro bailout. Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos announced more pension and wage cuts this month and
said 30,000 state workers will have their wages reduced and be
placed in a reserve system as the government struggles to meet
deficit targets amid a shrinking economy.  Lingering Doubts  Greece has yet to secure a second international rescue as
questions persist about its ability to satisfy the aid terms.
Venizelos this month announced a raft of new measures including
a sweeping property tax.  Protesters draped a banner reading “Occupation. No more”
from the second floor of the  Finance Ministry  and speakers urged
passersby to resist the government’s measures. The statistical
authority didn’t release July figures today and calls to its
offices weren’t answered.  The troika review, key to whether EU ministers approve the
payment, was already delayed after a two-week hiatus to allow
the government to work on supplementary measures for 2011 and
2012. The draft 2012 budget is due to be submitted to Parliament
on Oct. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  