-- 
Gulf Keystone Chief Executive Gained in ‘Unusual’ Share Deal, Lawsuit Says

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-09-30T07:42:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/gulf-keystone-ceo-gained-in-unusual-deal-suit-over-kurd-oil-find-says.html
Todd Kozel, the founder and chief
executive officer of  Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. (GKP) , was accused
in a U.K. lawsuit of making a 17.2 million-pound ($27 million)
profit by using an offshore trust to buy stock just before the
London-listed company announced it had struck oil in Iraq.  Excalibur Ventures LLC, which is seeking a 30 percent stake
in Gulf Keystone’s Kurdistan oil fields in its lawsuit, said
Kozel’s holdings in the Alternative Investment Market-listed
company were “opaquely structured and incompletely disclosed,”
according to documents filed at the court and seen by Bloomberg
News. Gulf Keystone says it has fully complied with the
exchange’s rules.  Gulf Keystone, based in  Bermuda , plans to join the FTSE 250
Index next year. Its shares have risen more than 1,000 percent
since finding as much as 10 billion barrels of oil in northern
 Iraq ’s Shaikan field in 2009.  Excalibur’s lawyers claim Kozel transferred 968,000 pounds
to his Swiss lawyer’s bank account so the investment vehicle
Gokana Trust could buy Gulf Keystone shares at 9 pence in a
private placement announced on Aug. 3, 2009. The trust’s
participation in the share sale wasn’t publicly announced.  Three days later the company said it had made a
“significant oil discovery” in the Kurdistan region of Iraq
and its shares soared. Kozel’s links to Gokana are being
contested in lawsuits in Britain and the U.S., where his divorce
is being fought out in the courts.  ‘Regulatory Issues’  “It would be very unusual for a director to loan monies to
a third party for the purposes of participating in a
fundraising, given the potential legal and regulatory issues
that this would throw up,” said  Tandeep Minhas , a partner at
London law firm Taylor Wessing.  Gulf Keystone’s lawyer Harvey Rands said Kozel was
specifically excluded from receiving any benefit or interest in
assets owned by Gokana Trust. The 968,000-pound “loan” he made
to Gokana didn’t have to be revealed under AIM rules, disclosure
and transparency rules or the U.K. Companies Act, he said in an
e-mailed statement.  Gokana Trust was set up in April 2009 to house 20 million
Gulf Keystone shares formerly owned by Kozel as part of
“advised estate planning,” the company said in a release at
the time. Excalibur’s lawyers said the shares Gokana has are
held for Kozel or members of his family.  Excalibur claims it worked with Gulf Keystone to secure the
concession in Kurdistan and that it is entitled to a 30 percent
share of revenue from the region. Gulf Keystone is contesting
that claim.  Father, Brothers  In its lawsuit, Excalibur also questioned Kozel’s links to
Gulf Keystone Petroleum LLC, another entity that owns 40 million
Gulf Keystone shares, or 4.7 percent of the company. Kozel has
said some or all of his interest in the limited liability
company was held on behalf of his father and brothers,
Excalibur’s lawyers wrote in court filings.  Rands said Kozel didn’t have a legally attributable
interest in the shares until they were distributed by Keystone
Petroleum LLC in June. He then received 11.6 million Gulf
Keystone shares from the firm and planned to transfer them to
his family as soon as possible, the company said in an
announcement at the time.  Kozel is facing a suit in the U.S. by his wife and another,
by his brothers and father, over his Gulf Keystone stake. David,
Frank and Robert Kozel filed a lawsuit against the Gulf Keystone
founder in  Pennsylvania  on June 16. In Florida divorce
proceedings, his wife won an injunction in February freezing the
assets of Gokana, now worth more than 44 million pounds.  Lavish Spending  Under questioning by his wife’s lawyer in December, Kozel
revealed lavish spending on business trips. He said he spent
$180,000 entertaining business contacts on a yacht in the south
of  France  and $7,711.67 on an event at a strip club for
“customers and company members,” according to court documents.  “There are various law suits/divorce proceedings which
state a claim over the shares currently held by Mr. Kozel,”
Rands said in an e-mail. “These allegations are neither true
nor announceable.”  The case is: Excalibur Ventures LLC v. Texas Keystone Inc,
10-1517,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  