-- 
IBM Tops Microsoft to Be Second-Most Valuable in Technology

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-09-30T21:28:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/ibm-tops-microsoft-for-first-time-since-1996.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  passed  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to become the world’s second-most
valuable technology company, a reflection of industry changes
including the shift away from the personal computer.  IBM’s market value rose to $214 billion yesterday, while
Microsoft’s fell to $213.2 billion. It’s the first time IBM has
exceeded its software rival based on closing prices since 1996,
according to Bloomberg data. IBM became the fourth-largest
company by market value, based on yesterday’s closing price,
and, in technology, trails only  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano  sold IBM’s PC
business six years ago to focus on corporate software and
services. Though Microsoft has expanded into online advertising
and games, it gets most of its revenue and earnings from the
Windows and Office software used primarily on PCs.  “IBM went beyond technology,” said Ted Schadler, an
analyst with Forrester Research Inc. “They were early to
recognize that computing was moving way beyond these boxes on
our desks.”  IBM remained ahead of Microsoft for a second day today,
sliding $4.30 to $174.87 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading, as Microsoft dropped 56 cents to $24.89 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. IBM, based in Armonk, New York, has
gained 19 percent this year, while Microsoft, based in Redmond,
 Washington , has fallen 11 percent.  Apple, which long competed against IBM and Microsoft in the
PC business, passed Microsoft in market value last year, on
rising sales of iPhones, iPods and iPads. Apple’s market
capitalization is $353.5 billion based on today’s close.  Palmisano’s Strategy  Palmisano, who is also chairman, has spent his nine years
at the helm sharpening the company’s focus on software and
services for corporations and government. Once known as the
world’s largest computer company, IBM in 2005 sold its PC unit
to  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , calling it “commoditized.” The company
has spent more than $25 billion investing in its software,
computer-services and consulting businesses.  The maneuvers have helped increase per-share profit for
more than 30 straight quarters. Palmisano has boosted sales by
20 percent from 2001 through last year, while keeping the costs
of the 426,000-employee company little changed. IBM pulled in
more than half of its $99.9 billion in revenue last year from
services and is now the world’s largest computer-services
provider.  The company is betting it can add another $20 billion to
revenue through 2015. Palmisano is investing in emerging markets
and analytics, as well as cloud-computing and an initiative
called Smarter Planet to connect roads, electrical systems and
other infrastructure to the Internet.  Railways, Waterways  “Computing is now found in things that no one thinks of as
‘computers’,” said Palmisano at  a trade show keynote  in
February. “Today, there are nearly a billion transistors per
human, and each one costs one ten-millionth of a cent. Yes, some
of these transistors are going into servers, PCs, smart phones,
MP3 players and tablets. But an increasing number of them are
going into appliances and automobiles, power grids, roadways,
railways and waterways.”  IBM plans to almost double operating earnings to at least
$20 a share in 2015. Investors have taken notice: Shares have
climbed 35 percent since the company first announced the goal in
May 2010.  Microsoft’s Slump  Microsoft, the world’s largest software company, was worth
three times as much as IBM in January 2000 and hit a market
capitalization of more than $430 billion in July 2000, according
to Bloomberg data. Microsoft fell to about $135 billion in March
2009 during the economic downturn, before recovering with the
market.  Microsoft, which had $69.9 billion in revenue for the
fiscal year ending in June, got about 60 percent of its sales
from the Windows and Office units in the most recent quarter.  “They were trapped in the classic innovator’s dilemma”
because their software business was so good,” said Schadler.
“The bet that Microsoft made in the PC business was to double
down and double down and double down.”  CEO  Steve Ballmer  said investors may not appreciate the
company’s progress in other businesses, including server
software and online versions of Office, given the higher profile
of its consumer businesses.  “People are saying, ‘Where do you go next?’,” said
Ballmer at the company’s annual meeting in November. There
probably isn’t “as much appreciation for the incredible growth
and success we’ve had with enterprises since people relate
better to the consumer market. But it’s great products with
great earnings and particularly in some high-visibility
categories.”  Xbox, Bing  The company’s server software and Office divisions boosted
sales last quarter, as did the entertainment division, which
includes its Xbox games business. Revenue at the online services
division, including the Bing search engine, climbed to $662
million, while its operating loss widened to $728 million.  Microsoft also cut a deal with  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  this year to make
its Windows Phone the primary operating system for the company’s
smartphones. The deal is designed to help both companies compete
against Apple and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, which
is available for free to handset makers such as Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.  Mobile and Cloud  IBM briefly passed Microsoft in market value rank on an
intraday basis in May, and the companies may continue to switch
positions, said Joel Achramowicz, an analyst for Blaylock Robert
Van LLC in Oakland,  California . While IBM has largely convinced
investors it can execute its stable growth strategy, Microsoft
has to prove it can move beyond PCs to tackle the mobile and
cloud computing markets, he said.  “Right now, we’re on the cusp of a major offensive move on
the part of Microsoft to position itself with some significant
leadership, this time in the mobile sector,” he said.
“Investors are skeptical, so the opportunity here is actually
bigger for Microsoft than it is for IBM.”  Still, mobile computing is unlikely to ever be as
profitable for Microsoft as the PC business, said Forrester’s
Schadler.  “They’re never going to win in that business the way they
did in the PC business,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  