-- 
Michigan Emergency Powers Challenge by Pension Boards Dismissed by Judge

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-09-30T15:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/michigan-emergency-powers-challenge-by-pension-boards-dismissed-by-judge.html
A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit
seeking to overturn a Michigan statute giving emergency powers
to state-appointed financial managers, saying the law wasn’t
ready for a legal challenge.  The  Detroit  workers’ pension boards, which sued in April,
asked the federal court in Detroit to declare the law
unconstitutional and block it from taking effect. The law, which
lets managers terminate employee contracts and suspend
collective bargaining, was signed by Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder  in March.  U.S. District Judge Sean F. Cox said the issues in the case
weren’t “ripe” for consideration. The emergency powers
wouldn’t be triggered unless multiple events occurred, including
written notice by the state treasurer to the city of Detroit, a
preliminary review, and a finding that a pension fund is
underfunded, Cox said.  “The action is not ripe for review because not only have
the above multistep processes that could potentially lead to the
use of the powers of Section 19(1)(m) not been completed, they
have not even begun,” Cox said in his 20-page ruling yesterday.  ‘Significant Hardship’  The pension boards argued in court papers that they would
“suffer significant hardship” if the law wasn’t erased. They
raised the possibility in their complaint that Detroit’s
retirement systems could be seized.  “Plaintiffs have been subjected to nearly constant threats
of appointment of an emergency manager and the exercise of the
czar-like powers granted under the act if they do not capitulate
and fully agree to all of the demands of the mayor” of Detroit,
they said in a July filing.  Ronald King, attorney for the pension boards, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on ruling.  The pension boards are the General Retirement System of the
City of Detroit and the Police and Fire Retirement System of
Detroit.  The case is General Retirement System of the City of
Detroit v. Snyder, 2:11-cv-11686, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  