-- 
Mideast Oil Producers to Spend $525 Billion on Energy Projects

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-09-30T16:40:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/mideast-oil-producers-to-spend-525-billion-on-energy-projects.html
Middle Eastern and North African
oil producing countries will invest $525 billion on energy
projects from next year to 2016, according to an inter-
governmental Arab energy lender.  Nations such as  Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab Emirates ,
 Iran  and  Algeria  have increased spending on energy projects for
the next five years as current high  oil prices  are allowing them
to resume projects that were delayed because of to the financial
crisis, the Arab Petroleum Investments Corp. said today in its
revised annual review of the MENA region energy investments.  Saudi Arabia will top the list with committed investments
of $141 billion, followed by the U.A.E. that is planning to
invest $76 billion in that period, the lender known as Apicorp
said in the e-mailed report. Countries in the region can finance
the projects on their own as long as the basket of OPEC crudes
stays at more than $90 a barrel, it said. It was at $103.11
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In Saudi Arabia, “investment has mostly been generated by
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  as
domestic private investors have continued to struggle to attract
capital,” the energy investment unit of the Organization of
Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries said.  Iran, the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries after Saudi Arabia, has committed
$58 billion, Apicorp said. “Tighter international sanctions and
the retreat of foreign companies have ended up taking a toll on
Iran’s energy investments,” it said.  The review is project based and includes plans in the oil,
gas, petrochemicals and power sectors that are likely to reach a
final investment decision. The bank selected the developments
from 220 planned and announced public and private projects in
the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar at   wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  