-- 
GE Survey Finds Midmarket Growth Amid Souring Economic Outlook

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-09-30T20:16:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/midsize-u-s-companies-cut-broad-economic-view-in-third-quarter.html
Small and midsize U.S. companies
are more pessimistic about the overall economy than their own
businesses, with more than half predicting revenue growth and
planning to add jobs, a  General Electric Co. (GE)  survey shows.  The third-quarter survey, released today, reflects data
from chief financial officers at 532 companies with average
annual sales of $162 million across seven industries, said GE
Capital, one of the biggest lenders to small and midsize U.S.
companies since the global credit crunch.  About one-third of executives expect their own industry to
grow in the next year, down from 55 percent in the first
quarter. About 62 percent expect sales at their individual
companies to rise in 2011, down 10 percent from the first
quarter. Two-thirds of CFOs still plan to add workers, down from
80 percent in the first quarter.  “The CFOs have felt pretty good about their own companies,
and then as you start moving up the economic landscape to the
U.S. and global economy, the view shifts,” Dan Henson, who
oversees GE Capital in the Americas, said in an interview.  The finance chiefs cited the  U.S. budget deficit  as the top
economic concern. Results show a “clear decline” in broad
confidence from July 4 through the U.S. congressional impasse on
the debt ceiling and the downgrade of the country’s debt by
 Standard & Poor’s .  “It’s an extrapolation of what we see today in negative
headlines and a lack of overall confidence,” Henson said. “But
when you look at your own world, it’s not that bad.”  Earnings Outlook  About 73 percent said they still see improving or
maintaining profitability in 2011, though that figure is down 10
percent from the same survey in the first quarter. The finance
chiefs said credit availability has remained stable, with 60
percent confident the cost of capital will remain steady for
this year. In industries where commodity costs are rising, most
companies say they can pass the cost to customers, Henson said.  CFOs were interviewed in 30-minute segments using data from
Dun & Bradstreet Corp., the Short Hills, New Jersey-based
business information and database provider. Seven industries
were included: metals and mining; food, beverage and
agriculture; general manufacturing; retail; health care;
technology and business services; and transportation.  The respondents weren’t necessarily  GE Capital  customers
and had revenue of between $50 million and $1 billion, with the
exception of transportation companies, whose revenue was about
$10 million or higher.  The restructuring companies did over the past three years,
including paying down debt and cutting expenses, has yielded
individual confidence, Henson said.  Paying Down Debt  GE Capital’s own review of about 1,200 customers and their
health shows less-leveraged balance sheets and fewer paying down
debt, which indicates customers may have arrived at a
comfortable level on their books, Henson said.  Those customers showed an average increase from a year ago
of 11 percent in revenue and 21 percent in earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda,
Henson said  “They took dramatic action in the crisis, drove a lot of
productivity in the cost structure,” Henson said. “They’ve
figured out how to succeed in this more moderate growth
environment with choppiness and they’re actually doing pretty
well when they look at themselves.”  The GE Capital Commercial Lending & Leasing unit is being
buoyed by the trends and is planning to hire about 300 more loan
originators, adding about 200 by year-end, as lending volume
rises about 45 percent from a year ago, Henson said.  GE Capital is hosting a gathering of middle-market
companies on the campus of  Ohio State University  in Columbus on
Oct. 6 to discuss the trends and unveil more analysis about the
swath of the  U.S. economy . The parent company is based in
Fairfield,  Connecticut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ; 