-- 
Tigers in AL Playoffs Means Detroit Bonus as Boston Bars Miss Out

-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n ,   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 
2011-09-30T16:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/tigers-in-al-playoffs-means-detroit-bonus-as-boston-bars-miss-out.html
Art Neely says he considers the $5
beer he downed before the  Detroit  Tigers’ final game of the
regular season two nights ago a down payment on the $200 he
expects to spend at each playoff game.  “This town is going to go crazy,” the 43-year-old season-
ticket-holder said from a table at the Elwood Bar & Grill across
the street from Comerica Park, where the Tigers will play their
first home game of the Major League Baseball postseason against
the  New York Yankees  on Oct. 3. “Every bar will be jam-packed
to the wall.”  The throngs of Tigers fans may bring as much as $74.4
million in tickets, food, parking and merchandise revenue to the
Motor City, where 22.5 percent unemployment and the bankruptcy
of two automakers have left residents hungry for good news, a
 Michigan  sports marketer said. In  Boston , the Red Sox’ record
September collapse out of a postseason berth means that city
will miss an estimated $38 million in business, according to the
city’s convention and visitors bureau.  For the 75-year-old Elwood, 56 steps from the Tigers’ home
field, there was no such letdown this year. It was the first
playoff appearance for the Tigers since 2006 and the first
division title since 1987. Detroit clinched during a 12-game
winning streak that ran into mid-September, the longest since
1932.  Game-Night Crowd  Licensed to hold 123 patrons, on a good game night a few
thousand will stop in or sit on the Elwood patio for a Coney
dog, a Ty Cobb salad and a beer, said Liz Markle, 41, who’s
managed the Elwood since it reopened in 2002 after being moved
to make way for Comerica Park.  Jason Orban flew in from Honolulu for the Sept. 28 victory
over the  Cleveland Indians , his third this season. He was with
his brothers Lee Hamann; Lee’s wife, Beth; and Dave Harvey, who
drove in from Kalamazoo and  Grand Rapids , Michigan, at the
Elwood four hours before the first pitch.  Orban, 28, who is stationed in  Hawaii  with the Army, said
he’ll have six or seven $8.50 beers at the stadium when the
Tigers are playing well, which has been often this year. On a
bad day, he said he’ll have about a dozen. He figures his group
spent $800 to attend the game this week.  “Price don’t matter to me,” Orban said. “How often do
you get to come down here and support the team?”  The Tigers open their best-of-five first-round playoff
series against the Yankees at 8:37 p.m. today. The winner will
face the  Texas Rangers  or the  Tampa Bay Rays  for the American
League Championship and a spot in the World Series. The National
League playoffs, where the  Philadelphia Phillies  meet the  St.
Louis Cardinals  and the  Arizona Diamondbacks  play the  Milwaukee
Brewers , begin tomorrow.  How Much Spent  The plane flights, beers, jerseys and game tickets from
fans like Orban and Neely add up to about $5.3 million a game in
the first round of the playoffs, $6.7 million for the American
League Championship Series and $12 million each if the Tigers
make it to the World Series, said Eric Smallwood, senior vice
president of Front Row Marketing Services in Port Huron,
Michigan.  It also means as much as $36.8 million in advertising
exposure from in-stadium signs and other mentions for Dallas-
based bank holding company Comerica Inc. if the Tigers were to
play all the potential home games and win the  World Series , he
said.  “It was a spark plug for the city,” Tigers pitcher  Justin Verlander , Rookie of the Year in 2006 when the Tigers last made
the playoffs, said in an interview after the game. “Everybody
rallied around us and it really boosted the economy.”  Nine-Game Lead  In Boston, where the Red Sox blew a nine-game lead in
September in losing a playoff spot to the Rays, missing the
playoffs won’t have a major effect on the city’s $7 billion
annual revenue from visitors, “but it’s like found money,”
said Pat Moscaritolo, president of the Greater Boston Convention
and Visitors Bureau whose $38 million estimate excluded ticket
sales.  Without a Sox playoff season, yearly sales at the Cask ‘n’
Flagon pub could be reduced by 5 percent, according to Dana Van
Fleet, a co-owner. The  Red Sox  won the World Series in 2004 and
2007 and have made the playoffs six of the past 10 years.  “Playoff baseball is very important to us,” said Van
Fleet, whose establishment is so close to the ballpark that home
runs sometimes land on its roof. “Not just financially, but for
the overall excitement it brings to the restaurant.”  Back in Detroit, the city may be reaping gains from more
than the Tigers, who last won the World Series in 1984.  Business From Sports  With the  Detroit Lions  at 3-0 for the first time since 1980
in the  National Football League  and the season starting for the
 Detroit Red Wings , who haven’t missed the National Hockey League
playoffs since 1991, the trio of downtown stadiums has the
potential to bring in $140 million in September/October revenue,
said Mike Bernacchi, a business and marketing professor at
University of Detroit Mercy.  “The intangible value is immeasurable,” said Daniel Loepp, chief executive officer of Blue Cross Blue Shield of
Michigan and chairman of the executive committee of the Downtown
Detroit Partnership, which advocates development in the city.
“The excitement level and civic pride will help us tell a more
positive story about Detroit.”  Blue Cross has a 60-foot-square billboard near its Detroit
headquarters with a looming Old English “D” -- the Tigers’
logo -- and the phrase “We Believe.” Loepp, who grew up in the
city, was 11 years old when he attended the fourth game of the
1968 World Series, which the Tigers won in seven games over the
Cardinals.  “I took the bus from Detroit’s east side with my older
brothers and we sat behind a pole in left field,” he said. “It
was pouring rain and the Tigers lost 10-1 and it still felt like
you’d won the lottery just to be there. It was a great day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Green in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Moroney  in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  