-- 
IMF Probably Will Cut Romanian 2012 Growth Forecast, Franks Says

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-09-30T08:51:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/imf-probably-will-cut-romanian-2012-growth-forecast-franks-says.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
probably will cut its 2012 growth forecast for Romania’s export-
reliant economy as the euro-area debt crisis crimps growth in
the Balkan country’s main trading partners.  The IMF, which approved a 675 million-euro ($913 billion)
precautionary loan yesterday, may lower its outlook to as low as
2 percent from 3.5 percent, IMF mission chief to Romania Jeffrey Franks said in a phone interview from  Washington  last night.  “The prospects for next year are certainly worsening due
to the situation elsewhere in Europe and so we would definitely
be looking at a downward revision in our forecast,” Franks
said. “It would certainly be below 3.5 percent but I would be
surprised if it was below 2 percent.”  Europe’s economy is showing increasing signs of a slowdown
as governments struggle to contain the fiscal crisis and avert a
Greek default.  Romania , which counted on an IMF-led bailout from
2009 through early 2011 as its economy shrank, exited a
recession this year as surging exports mainly to the European
Union helped offset weak domestic demand.  Gross domestic product expanded 1.7 percent from a year
earlier in the first quarter and 1.4 percent in the second,
after shrinking 1.3 percent last year and 7.1 percent in 2009.
GDP probably will grow 1.5 percent this year, according to
Franks.  Romanian inflation has slowed more than the IMF had
anticipated and the central bank might meet its inflation target
of 2 percent to 4 percent for this year, Franks said. The
inflation rate fell to 4.25 percent in August, the lowest in 17
months, from 4.85 percent in July, as a bumper harvest boosted
food stocks.  Sustained Inflation Slowdown  “What I think we would like to see on the IMF side is some
sustained trend in downward inflation,” Franks said. “We need
to make sure that this is not just a cyclical volatility due to
a very good harvest, but that there is some underlying trend
towards reducing inflation that is sustainable in 2012, before
our recommendation on a tightening bias would change.”  Romania’s central bank should also refrain from
“aggressively” reducing the amount of foreign currencies banks
are required to hold to keep a “buffer in the financial system
against banking sector problems elsewhere in  Europe ,” Franks
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  