-- 
Imperial Holdings of South Africa to Acquire Lehnkering for $234 Million

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-09-30T07:41:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/imperial-holdings-of-south-africa-to-acquire-lehnkering-for-234-million.html
Imperial Holdings Ltd. (IPL) , which owns
 South Africa ’s largest auto-dealer network and logistics
businesses in  Europe , agreed to buy Lehnkering Holding GmbH to
gain access to  Germany ’s growing trade with emerging economies.  Imperial will pay 173 million euros ($234 million) for the
business, which it said has a total enterprise value of 270
million euro including net debt of 97 million euros, the
Johannesburg-based company said today.  “Lehnkering provides Imperial with an ideal opportunity to
expand into global emerging markets which are served by German
exports,” Imperial said.  Lehnkering, which has its headquarters in Duisburg,
Germany, has consistently increased profit for the last eight
years and operates in similar industries to Imperial’s
international logistics arm based in the same city, the South
African company said. Imperial is buying Lehnkering from Lukas
Sweden AB and the German company’s managers.  Imperial rose as much as 1.4 percent to 106.59 rand and was
up 0.2 percent as of 9:37 a.m. in Johannesburg trading. That
narrowed the stock’s decline this year to 17 percent, valuing
the company at 24.5 billion rand ($3.06 billion).  Inland European Access  Imperial said on Sept. 20 that it’s acquiring a controlling
stake in Dettmer Bulk Reederei, a family-owned inland European
shipping company, for an undisclosed amount. The Lehnkering
purchase will also improve Imperial’s competitive position in
European inland shipping, ports and terminals operations,
warehousing, distribution and contract logistics, it said today.  Imperial Chief Executive Officer Hubert Brody said on Aug.
24 that the company has “a couple of billion rand to spend on
acquisitions.” In the year through June, Imperial concluded
nine purchases, its debt-to-equity ratio of 34 percent left it
with “significant room for expansion” as its gearing target
was in the range of 60 percent to 80 percent, according to its
earnings statement.  The Lehnkering deal will be financed by euro-denominated
banking facilities secured for the transaction, Imperial said. A
portion of the acquisition costs will be funded from Imperial’s
South African operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  