-- 
India’s Cabinet Approves Mining Bill on Profit Sharing

-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-09-30T07:36:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/india-s-cabinet-approves-mining-bill-on-profit-sharing-1-.html
India ’s cabinet approved a bill
that will make companies mining coal and other minerals pay for
development of areas where they operate, Information and
Broadcasting Minister  Ambika Soni  said today in  New Delhi .  The Mines and Mineral Development and Regulation Bill
provides for coal companies to share 26 percent of their profit,
while other miners must pay an amount equal to the royalty
collected by the government for mineral extraction, Coal
Minister Sriprakash Jaiswal said today in New Delhi.  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s biggest producer of the fuel,
fell as much as 5.3 percent to 332.20 rupees, the lowest since
March 11, and traded at 335.70 rupees as of 1:01 p.m. in Mumbai.
The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost 0.7 percent.  The bill, which will replace laws drafted more than five
decades ago, aims to win support for industry from local people
who have received little or no benefit from the mining of
resources. Their exclusion has made many remote Indian villages
a rich recruiting ground for Maoist rebels.  The guerrillas are active in a dozen of India’s 28 states,
many of which are rich in  iron ore , coal, bauxite, manganese and
other minerals. India could lose $80 billion of investment in
developing mineral deposits should the government fail to stop
rebel violence, London-based  Execution Noble  Ltd. has said.  The Federation of Indian Mineral Industries  had opposed the
proposal to share profits with local populations in its meetings
with the mines ministry. Mining companies argue the proposals
will deter investment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  