-- 
India Stock Futures Drop as Growth Concerns Dim Earnings Outlook

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-09-30T02:26:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/india-stock-futures-drop-as-growth-concerns-dim-earnings-outlook.html
India ’s stock-index futures fell,
signaling a loss in benchmark indexes, after U.S. reports failed
to ease growth concerns, and as accelerating inflation and
interest rates dim the outlook for earnings, pushing shares
toward the worst quarterly loss in almost three years.  SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures for October delivery
declined 38 points, or 0.8 percent, to 4,998 at 10:25 a.m. in
 Singapore . The futures are derived from the 50 stocks on the
underlying S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India, which rose 1.4 percent to 5,015.45 yesterday. The BSE
India Sensitive Index gained 1.5 percent to 16,698.07. The two
gauges have dropped 11 percent this quarter, heading for the
biggest loss since the three months ended December 2008.  Applications for U.S. jobless benefits dropped by 37,000
last week to 391,000, the fewest since April, Labor Department
figures showed, while a separate report showed the number of
contracts to purchase previously owned U.S. homes fell 1.2
percent in August. Indian food prices accelerated for the first
time in four weeks, the government said yesterday, maintaining
pressure on the central bank to raise  interest rates  further
even as company profits slow.  “While a global macro would likely be the single biggest
sentiment driver for Indian equities in the short term,
investors are concerned about politics, a slowdown in investment
demand, continued inflationary pressures and corporate
earnings,” CLSA  Asia  Pacific Markets said in a report.  Food Prices  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products gained 9.13 percent in the week ended Sept. 17 from a
year earlier, the commerce ministry said. It rose 8.84 percent
the previous week. Food has a weighting of about 14 percent in
the wholesale-price index, which India uses as its price gauge.  The nation’s wholesale-price inflation reached a 13-month
high of 9.78 percent in August, staying above 9 percent for a
ninth month, prompting the  Reserve Bank  of India to raise rates
on Sept. 16 for a 12th time since March 2010.  “Inflation has not eased down,” K.N. Rahaman, deputy
research head at Way2Wealth Brokers Pvt., said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “We foresee another interest-rate hike if
inflation stays stubborn.”  The inflation rate remains above the level the central bank
deems acceptable, Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said on Sept. 26,
underscoring that pressure remains for monetary tightening in
Asia’s third-largest economy. The central bank meets for a next
policy review on Oct. 25.  Company Earnings  The Sensex has declined 19 percent this year on concern the
rate increases may compound the effects of  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis and slowing U.S. growth on corporate profits.
Companies on the gauge trade at 14.1 times estimated earnings,
compared with 9.5 times on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Earnings for 47 percent of Sensex companies missed analyst
estimates in the three months ended June, according to Bloomberg
data. That compares with 33 percent that lagged behind forecasts
in the previous quarter.  Infosys Ltd., India’s second-biggest software-services
provider, will announce results on Oct. 12, the first company in
the Nifty to post earnings for the quarter ending Sept. 30.  “I don’t think that the market is suddenly going to react
very positively to earnings,” Vibhav Kapoor, group chief
investment officer at IL&FS Investmart Financial Ltd., said in
an interview with Bloomberg UTV yesterday. “There is still
going to be a lot of concern on how things are going to go into
the third and fourth quarter. I don’t think it’s going to lead
to a great upside.”  Monsoon Boost  Still, monsoon rainfall in India, the world’s second-
biggest producer of rice, wheat and sugar, was above normal for
a second year, boosting prospects of bigger harvests and
increased exports.  Increased supply of rice, corn, sugar and oilseeds ease
India’s food-price inflation, the highest among the biggest
emerging markets, and cap global food costs monitored by the
 United Nations  that climbed 26 percent in the past year.  Overseas investors bought a net 2.52 billion rupees ($51.5
million) of Indian stocks on Sept. 28, reducing the outflow from
equities this year to 2.92 billion rupees, according to data on
the  website  of the  Securities and Exchange Board of India . They
withdrew a net $2.4 billion in August, the most since October
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  