-- 
Ingersoll Rand Tumbles After Cutting Sales, Profit Forecasts

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-30T21:05:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/ingersoll-rand-drops-after-cutting-sales-profit-forecasts.html
Ingersoll  Rand  fell the most in
almost three years after cutting its full-year sales and profit
forecasts amid slowing demand for climate control and
residential-security businesses.  Shares of the maker of security systems and Trane air
conditioners dropped $3.87, or 12 percent, to $28.09 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
decline since Nov. 20, 2008. The shares have fallen 40 percent
this year.  Consumer-related businesses such as residential heating and
air conditioning, golf and residential security were
“significantly affected” in the third quarter, accounting for
the lower sales volume, the company said in a statement today.
Commercial-security sales were also slower than expected. In
July, Ingersoll Rand reported second-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates, hurt by lower sales of Trane products.  “The company has now disappointed for the second
consecutive quarter in a rather unforgiving market,” James Lucas, an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, said in a research note today. “We would expect
IR’s shares to be range-bound for the foreseeable future until
the company can restore investor confidence.”  Revenue this year will be $14.85 billion to $15 billion,
down from a previous projection of $15.3 billion to $15.5
billion, the Swords, Ireland-based company said. Analysts
projected $14.8 billion, the average of 16 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Profit Forecast  The residential business makes up 15 percent of revenue and
less than 10 percent of profit, said Lucas, who lowered his
recommendation on the stock today to “neutral” from “buy.”  Ingersoll Rand predicts 2011 earnings per share of $2.70 to
$2.80 a share, reduced from an earlier forecast of $2.90 to
$3.10. Analysts projected $2.94, according to the average of 19
estimates. For the third quarter, the company cut its earnings
per share forecast to 77 cents to 80 cents from 85 cents to 95
cents previously.  “We already did a resetting of the bar in the residential
business,” Joshua Pokrzywinski, an analyst with MKM Partners in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “To come
back 2 1/2 months later and take down numbers for the year
another 27 cents kind of implies that these guys have a crisis
of credibility.” He has a ‘buy’ rating on the shares.  Ingersoll Rand reported on July 21 second-quarter profit of
88 cents a share, excluding some items, which trailed analysts’
estimates of 93 cents. Sales at the company’s residential
solution unit fell 1.3 percent from a year ago to $632.1 million
and bookings dropped 6 percent.  ‘Incremental Weakening’  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , the maker of Carrier air
conditioners, said in July that its residential cooling market
was “softer.”  For Ingersoll Rand, there are concerns the weaker sales may
spill over into the commercial unit, Stephen Tusa, a New York-
based analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a report today.  “While the commercial businesses remain ok, we think it’s
a matter of time before related orders slow,” wrote Tusa, who
has an ‘overweight’ rating on the shares. “The size of revenue
miss suggests there is some incremental weakening there.”  Ingersoll Rand had reaffirmed its full-year profit forecast
on Aug. 8 and said it agreed to sell a 60 percent stake in the
Hussmann refrigerated display case unit for $370 million.
Hussmann adds 4 cents to the third-quarter earnings-per-share
forecast and about $200 million to revenue, the company said
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at   jlangford2@bloomberg.net  