-- 
Minmetals Acquires Congolese Copper Producer Anvil Mining for $1.3 Billion

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-09-30T20:12:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/minmetals-offers-1-3-billion-for-anvil-mining-39-premium-to-stock-price.html
Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208) , a unit of
state-owned  China  Minmetals Group, agreed to buy  Democratic
Republic  of Congo copper producer  Anvil Mining Ltd. (AVM)  for HK$10
billion ($1.3 billion) to help source supply for China, the
biggest consumer.  Minmetals will pay C$8 ($7.6) a share for each of Anvil’s,
the Hong Kong-based company said today in a statement. The board
of Anvil, listed in both Sydney and Toronto, has recommended the
offer, it said. The offer is a 39 percent premium to Anvil’s
closing Canadian share price yesterday.  China is snapping up deposits in Africa, including Congo,
rated the third-least desirable place to operate a mine, amid a
shortage of new copper discoveries. Minmetals, which had its
C$6.04 billion offer for African copper miner Equinox Minerals
Ltd. trumped by Barrick Gold Corp. in April, is paying less than
half the median valuation of assets for Anvil.  “This acquisition is part of China’s move to have access
to raw materials,” Peter Rudd, mining and resources manager at
Armytage Private Ltd., said by phone from  Melbourne . “They
realize the importance and the significance of those materials
to their future wellbeing.”  Anvil soared C$1.89, or 33 percent, to C$7.66 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto Stock Exchange trading. Anvil rose 32 percent to A$7.65
at the close in Sydney trading. Minmetals has applied for
approval from  Australia ’s Foreign Investment Review Board for
the offer. China Minmetals is the nation’s largest metals
trader.  Anvil Output  Adding Anvil will boost Minmetals’ copper output by about
60 percent and its copper reserves by 75 percent to about 1.7
million metric tons, Minmetals said in a presentation. Anvil may
produce 60,000 tons of copper cathode annually from next year,
it said.  Minmetals’ offer values Anvil at about 1.7 times the value
of its total assets, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with the median of 4.08 times of 10 similar deals in
the last five years, and with 2.5 times the value of Equinox’s
assets.  The Chinese company led by Australian Andrew Michelmore,
who sold WMC Resources Ltd. to BHP Billiton Ltd. for $9.2
billion in 2005, is taking advantage of the global market rout
that has wiped 31 percent off the copper price since a February
high in  London . China has spent $17 billion this year buying
mines to secure supply to feed its industrial growth.  China’s Jinchuan Group Ltd. agreed to buy African copper
producer Metorex Ltd. for $1.36 billion in July and Sichuan
Hanlong Group has offered to buy Sundance Resources Ltd.,
developing an iron ore mine in Congo, for A$1.2 billion ($1.16
billion.  Copper Takeovers  There have been $11.2 billion copper mining takeovers so
far this year, compared with a total of $12.4 billion last year,
data compiled by Bloomberg shows. The biggest was Barrick’s
takeover of Equinox.  Minmetals is advised by BNP Paribas SA and Anvil is advised
by BMO Capital Markets. Minmetals will use a loan from Album
Enterprises, a unit of its largest shareholder, to fund the
deal, it said.  Congo holds 4 percent of global copper reserves and is
among the world’s largest producers of cobalt. The nation,
recovering from more than four decades of dictatorship and war,
is in the second year of a three-year, $561 million loan program
backed by the  International Monetary Fund  to reduce poverty and
spur economic growth.  Third Last  The Fraser Institute, a Canada-based research organization,
ranked Congo  third last  in its 2010-2011 Survey of Mining
Companies out of a total of 79 countries. The ranking reflects
uncertainty created by the nationalization and revision of
mining contracts by the Joseph Kabila-led government, the report
said.  Congo shuttered the $750 million First Quantum Minerals
Ltd.’s Kolwezi copper venture and revoked its license in August
2009, saying the Vancouver-based miner hadn’t fulfilled its
contractual obligations, a claim the company denied. It still
expects to get its license restored, it said in July.  The U.S. has a  warning  against travel to the country
because of security concerns about elements of the Congolese
military and rebel fighters, according to the Department of
State. Foreigners were kidnapped by armed militia groups in two
separate incidents in April 2010, it said.  Mutoshi Project  Anvil has faced allegations of enabling the Congolese army
to attack rebel groups at Kilwa in the northeast part of Katanga
Province. In 2004, the army took over vehicles owned by Anvil
and used them to suppress the rebels, killing about 100 people.
Anvil has said it had no option but to agree to the request by
the army to use its vehicles, and had no knowledge of a planned
military operation.  The takeover may trigger the sale of Anvil’s 70 percent
stake in the Mutoshi project to Gecamines, Congo’s state-owned
copper mining company, Minmetals said today. The stake may be
worth $52.5 million, it said.  “Anvil’s experience and relationships would be leveraged
to further grow in” southern and central  Africa , an area with
“enormous exploration potential,” Minmetals said in the
presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Gosman at   kgosman@bloomberg.net . 