-- 
Lira Posts Worst Stretch of Monthly Declines Since 2001 on Trade Deficit

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-09-30T16:31:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/lira-posts-worst-stretch-of-monthly-declines-since-01-on-wider-trade-gap.html
The lira headed for its fifth
straight monthly retreat, the longest stretch of declines since
2001, after the  trade gap  expanded more than forecast.  The lira slid 0.1 percent to 1.8549 per dollar at 6:43 p.m.
in Istanbul. The ISE National 100 share index fell 0.1 percent
to 59,693.43, completing its worst quarter since the last three
months of 2008. Two-year lira-denominated bonds sank, pushing up
yields seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 8.41
percent, the RBS Istanbul Benchmark Bond Index showed.  Turkey ’s trade deficit grew to $8.2 billion from $6.9
billion in August 2010, as stronger consumer demand lifted
imports faster than exports, the statistics office said. The
shortfall was expected at $7.1 billion, according to the median
estimate of eight economists in a Bloomberg survey. The lira is
posting the biggest decline in 2011 among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after  South Africa ’s rand.  “The trade deficit data was not good and it is clear it’s
not good for the lira,”  Benoit Anne , the London-based head of
emerging-market strategy at Societe Generale SA, said in an e-
mailed response to questions today.  Stocks and bonds extended losses after CNBC news channel
reported that  Fitch Ratings  said Turkey needs sustainable growth
for its debt to be raised to investment grade. Turkey’s long-
term foreign currency debt is rated BB+ by Fitch, one step below
investment grade.  ‘Soft Landing’  Fitch needs to see whether Turkey’s economy will have a
“soft landing” and the central bank’s monetary policy is right
before raising the country’s debt to investment grade,  Ed Parker , an analyst, said in a phone interview with Bloomberg
from London today after the CNBC report.  Traders are paying close to the most since March 2009 to
protect against lira depreciation in the options market. There
is a 72 percent chance that the currency will fall to 1.9 per
dollar in one month, according to implied probability calculated
from currency options.  Turkey’s currency is down 17 percent against the dollar
this year, and has lost 13 percent this quarter as the current-
account deficit and worsening European debt crisis hurt investor
confidence in the nation’s financial stability. The country’s
12-month current-account gap widened to a record $74.6 billion
in July, equivalent to about 10 percent of gross domestic
product.  Deteriorating Deficits  While the rate of deterioration in the trade and current
account deficits is slowing, “I would still argue not at a
quick enough pace to suggest Turkey (and the lira) are out of
the woods in terms of risks of a further aggressive
correction,” Tim Ash, the head of emerging market research at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said in an e-mailed
report to clients.  Turkish central bank Governor Erdem Basci said today he
wouldn’t welcome further losses for the lira.  The decline in the lira has been “useful and sufficient,”
Basci said in a speech in the northwestern city of Edirne today.  The central bank is defending the lira through daily dollar
auctions and sold $50 million of the U.S. currency today, for a
total $640 million this week. It has sold $3 billion since  the
auctions  started on Aug. 5. Foreign currency reserves, excluding
gold, fell by $1.6 billion to $85.6 billion last week. The
central bank’s reserves are dwarfed by  Russia ’s $526 billion in
international currency and gold.  Decline May Reverse  The lira may become the best-performer in the  Europe ,
Middle East and Africa region after its recent declines and
rebound to 1.60 per dollar by the end of next year, Societe
General’s Anne said, adding that the lira hit bottom at around
1.85 per dollar.  The lira is likely to appreciate to 1.67 at the end of next
year, according to the median forecast of 10 banks surveyed by
Bloomberg. The forecasted total return, including interest, for
the lira shows a 22 percent gain by the end of 2012, placing it
among the top four emerging-market currencies after the
Brazilian real, Indian rupee and Polish zloty, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “I am in line with Governor Basci: the lira is
fundamentally cheap, and I also believe that the fundamentals
are going to improve substantially, in particular with regards
to the current account deficit,” Anne said.  The Turkish  budget deficit  was on track to reach a 2.8
percent of GDP target set for this year, which would bring the
debt-to-GDP ratio down to 40 percent, he said.  Policy makers have cut the benchmark  interest rate  three
times since December, by 1.25 percentage points, to help guard
the economy from the global slowdown. Turkish GDP expanded 8.8
percent annually in the second quarter, more than economists
forecast, compared with  India ’s 7.7 percent rate.  “Ongoing rapid import growth is not good news for the
markets, which were anticipating signs of a deceleration in
domestic demand,” Nilufer Sezgin, chief economist at broker
Ekspres Invest in Istanbul, said in an e-mail after the data
were released.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net 
 Mark Bentley  in Istanbul at 
 Mbentley3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  