-- 
Hitachi-LG Venture to Pay $21.1 Million in Bid-Rigging Case

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   G r e g   C h a n g
-- 
2011-09-30T19:29:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/hitachi-lg-venture-to-pay-21-1-million-in-bid-rigging-case-1-.html
Hitachi-LG Data Storage Inc. agreed
to plead guilty and pay a $21.1 million fine for bid-rigging and
price-fixing involving optical disk drives, the Justice
Department said.  In a 15-count felony charge filed today in federal court in
San Francisco, the government said Hitachi-LG conspired with
other companies from June 2004 through September 2009 to rig
bids and fix prices for optical drives to be sold to  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Hitachi-LG is a joint
venture of Tokyo-based  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and Seoul-based LG
Electronics Inc.  The company “undermined competition and innovation in the
high tech industry,” Sharis Pozen, acting head of the Justice
Department’s antitrust division, said in a statement.  The charges are the first in the department’s investigation
of the optical disk drive industry. Hitachi-LG has agreed to
cooperate in the continuing probe, the department said.  Hitachi didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail request for
comment. Kim Regillio, a spokeswoman for LG Electronics USA,
didn’t immediately respond to a phone call seeking comment.  Types of optical disk drives include CD-ROM, CD-RW, DVD-ROM
and DVD-RW.  Hitachi-LG discussed with rivals what prices they would bid
before entering competitions for business, the  Justice
Department  said. The company is charged with one count of wire
fraud for sending co-conspirators an e-mail with the first-round
results of a bidding process held by Hewlett-Packard, according
to the department.  The plea agreement is subject to a judge’s approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  