-- 
Jackie Collins Buys Bonds, Sells 400 Million Books: Interview

-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 
2011-10-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/jackie-collins-sells-400-million-books-loves-vegas-buys-bonds-interview.html
Wearing multiple pieces of diamond
jewelry, Jackie Collins sparkles as she steps into the bar of
the Plaza Athenee hotel in  New York .  Beginning with her first novel in 1968, Collins has sold
over 400 million books. Her bestsellers, she notes by way of
explanation, “have a lot of good looking people and a lot of
sex.”  Collin’s most recent novel, “ Goddess of Vengeance ,”
follows the protagonist of her last eight books, Lucky
Santangelo, as she and her young, successful and attractive
children experience highs and lows known only to the super rich
(and to Collins’s millions of readers).  Tarmy: This is your 28th book. How have you managed to be
so prolific?  Collins: I wake up at 7 a.m., go straight to my desk and
write one sentence. That’s the secret.  You’ve got to start immediately. Then I have coffee, get
dressed and everything, but I’ve already started to write so I’m
lured back to my desk. I’ll write until about 5 p.m. and then
I’ll indulge my addiction, TiVo.  Tarmy: You’ve been writing about sex, money, celebrity and
power for the last four decades. How do you think they’ve
changed since your first book was published?  Sex Tapes  Collins: If you look at the headlines today, nothing has
changed that much. The first book I wrote is still totally
relevant. I say that with not much modesty because I know it’s
true.  Tarmy: You pioneered the idea of a strong, successful
woman. Do you think that that kind of advocacy is still
necessary in 2011?  Collins: Absolutely. Women still need role models. All you
have to do is put on TMZ and see girls falling out of nightclubs
and into cars with rock stars because they think this is going
to get them a career.  Tarmy: Well, sometimes it does.  Collins: I’m sure that there are more sex tapes out there
that haven’t made the girl a star than those that have.  Tarmy: Much of “Goddess of Vengeance” is set in  Las
Vegas . Do you go there often?  Collins: Oh, I love Las Vegas. I like to go for 24 hours. I
take a limo, stop for an In-N-Out Burger on the way, see a show,
go to a restaurant, buy a piece of jewelry, gamble, and come
home. It’s the greatest.  Tarmy: Do you handle your own money?  Shopping  Collins: I have a very good business manager who is also my
best friend. She’s a very attractive and smart blond woman.  When we go out, if I want to buy a piece of jewelry, I’ll
turn to her and say, “Is this OK?” and she’ll always reply,
“Go ahead.” But I like to be safe. I played the stock market
for a while, but it’s like gambling, legitimate gambling.  Tarmy: So now what do you invest in?  Collins: I invest in bonds and I have some houses that I
rent out. I would much rather do that than take a risk on the
stock market or get involved with someone like Madoff.  Tarmy: Do you have any plans for the rest of your stay in
New York?  Collins: I like to go antique shopping -- I’m into Art Deco
and Art Nouveau. And I always like to visit the three Bs:
Bloomingdale’s, Bergdorf, and Barneys.  Tarmy: Do you have a favorite city?  Collins: I think my three favorite cities are  London , New
York and  Los Angeles .  Old England  Tarmy: Where do you stay when you’re in London?  Collins: I love the  Dorchester . It’s sort of an old English
establishment hotel.  Tarmy: They have a wonderful tea service.  Collins: Oh, don’t talk to me about the tea at the
Dorchester. I love it so much.  Tarmy: Well, you know the tea service here is also
phenomenal. Have you ever had it?  Collins: What? Are you serious? I have not. We’ll have the
tea service for two, though how I’m going to eat dinner tonight
is now beyond me.  Tarmy: You are nothing if not a resourceful woman.  Collins: Yes, I’ll force myself.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 