-- 
It’s 1987 Without Bubble in Japan as Job Losses Spur Hollowing-Out Concern

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-09-30T08:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/japan-s-industrial-output-rises-less-than-expected-weighed-by-strong-yen.html
Japan ’s labor force shrank last
month to its smallest size since October 1987, when the
nation’s stock-market benchmark was 185 percent higher and
land prices were 85 percent greater than today.  Employers cut payrolls by 160,000 and a further 200,000
workers retired or abandoned efforts to find a job, leaving the
seasonally adjusted number of employed at 59.4 million, the
statistics bureau said today in  Tokyo . Separate figures showed
industrial production rose 0.8 percent from the previous month,
less than all but three of 28 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  The data deepen concern that Japan’s recovery from the
March earthquake will be stunted by manufacturers shifting
operations abroad because of gains in the yen, a deterioration
in  consumer confidence  and prospects for higher taxes at home.
The challenges add to the burden of an economy already beset by
a shrinking and aging population.  “We’ve seen an acceleration in the hollowing out of
industry this year with the yen’s surge and the earthquake,”
said Hiroshi Miyazaki, chief economist at Shinkin Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “The government doesn’t have a sense
of crisis about the yen and emerging economies are luring
Japanese companies away.”  The yen traded at 76.74 as of 9:12 a.m. in  London , about 1
percent from the post-World War II record high of 75.95 on Aug.
19. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average finished little changed at
8,700.29, compared with the peak of 38,915.87 when it closed out
1989, capping a four-year run when it soared almost 200 percent.  Noda’s Response  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s government on Sept. 27 said
it will start implementing measures to cope with the yen’s
gains, including subsidies for companies struggling to retain
workers. Finance Minister Jun Azumi said today that Japan plans
to bolster funds needed to intervene and lengthen monitoring of
foreign-exchange market positions until the end of the year,
from an initial plan to end the review this month.  “The yen staying around the high-70s could throw cold
water on the Japanese economy’s recovery trend,” Azumi said at
a press conference in Tokyo. “We will take bold actions when
needed and we don’t rule out taking any necessary measures while
closely monitoring speculative trading.”  Manufacturers including Panasonic Corp. have announced
plans to shift operations overseas. Panasonic, one of the
world’s largest consumer electronics companies, is moving the
headquarters of its $57 billion procurement operation to
 Singapore  from  Osaka  in the year starting April 2012, Masaaki Fujita, an executive in charge of the business, said this month.  Exports Disappoint  Exports and retail sales data released this month also
missed analysts forecasts, casting doubt on whether gross
domestic product will rebound as much as forecast this quarter.
GDP is expected to grow at a 4.6 percent annual pace in the
three months through September, ending three quarters of
decline, according to the average forecast of 42 economists
surveyed by Japan’s government-affiliated Economic Planning
Association.  The jobless rate fell to 4.3 percent in August from 4.7
percent as people left the workforce, today’s report showed.
Household spending decreased 4.1 percent from a year earlier,
compared with the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey for
a 2.8 percent drop.  A stagnating economy has also depressed consumer sentiment,
with the nation’s Economy Watchers survey showing confidence
among merchants and others who deal with consumers slipping to
47.3 in August, the first drop since March.  Not Enough  “I’m worried where things will go after this year, when
we’ll start to see more of an impact from the strong yen and
slowing growth in the U.S.,” said Noriaki Matsuoka, an
economist at Daiwa Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. Reconstruction
won’t be enough to fuel a “V-shaped rebound,” he said.  Japan plans to spend a total of 19 trillion yen ($247
billion) over five years for rebuilding after the magnitude-9
temblor and tsunami that devastated the northeast coast. The
nation’s ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan this week proposed a
9.2 trillion yen temporary tax increase and selling of state
assets to help pay for the effort.  In a sign that weaker global demand is affecting other
Asian markets,  South Korea ’s industrial production also rose
less than economist estimates in August, gaining 4.8 percent
from a year earlier, Statistics Korea said today. Meanwhile, a
gauge of Chinese manufacturing shrank for a third month in
September, the longest contraction since 2009, according to the
purchasing managers’ index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics today.  Yen Gains  “Continuing yen strength will prompt companies to factor
in a stronger yen in their business planning,” said Takahiro Sekido, a former analyst at the  Bank of Japan  and now a chief
economist at Credit Agricole SA in Tokyo. “The biggest concern
is the European debt crisis and the  U.S. economy . With uncertain
overseas demand,” Japan’s recovery may weaken, he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  predicted “severe”
repercussions if  Europe  fails to contain its debt crisis or U.S.
policy makers deadlock over a fiscal overhaul. Deepening debt
woes in Europe have also put pressure on the yen’s exchange rate
against its European counterpart, threatening to depress
earnings at companies including Sony Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  