-- 
Double-Decker Funds Roil Junk Bonds as Brazilian Real Drops, Barclays Says

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 
2011-09-30T13:34:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/japan-double-decker-funds-roil-junk-debt-as-real-drops-14-barclays-says.html
Funds created for Japanese
investors to wager on  junk bonds  and emerging-market currencies
are contributing to the biggest losses in U.S. high-yield debt
in almost three years, according to Barclays Capital
strategists.  The so-called double-decker funds, which seek to increase
yields by pairing junk-bond investments with swaps on currencies
including the Brazilian real, have been forced to sell debt they
hold as the real plunged more than 14 percent this month against
the  U.S. dollar , strategists led by Bradley Rogoff wrote in a
report today. That’s prevented high-yield notes from rallying
even on days the stock market climbed, the strategists said.  “Bond managers have been forced to sell assets to settle
the currency trades,” the New York-based analysts said. “The
currency positions are typically reset monthly, and while the
selling pressure may dissipate next week after month-end, these
currencies are likely to remain volatile.”  High-yield, or junk, bonds are rated below BBB- by  Standard
& Poor’s  and Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service. U.S. high-yield
bonds have lost 6.7 percent since the end of July, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show, as  Europe ’s debt crisis
has caused investors to shun riskier assets and the U.S.
economic recovery shows signs of faltering. The decline is the
biggest two-month slide since the period ended November 2008,
when credit markets seized up following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Offshore funds, such as the double-deckers, have come to
represent 6 percent to 9 percent of buyers in the more than $1
trillion high-yield  debt market  in recent years, the strategists
said. Funds started in  Japan  in the second quarter of 2009 that
use Brazilian real swaps to increase returns from junk debt grew
to as much as $48 billion and are at about $44 billion, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. strategists said in a Sept. 15 report.  Editors: Pierre Paulden, Mitchell Martin  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  