-- 
Japan’s Topix Falls, Ending 3-Day Rally Amid U.S. Growth Concern

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 
2011-09-30T06:34:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/japan-stocks-snap-winning-streak-as-concern-lingers-u-s-growth-may-falter.html
Japanese stocks edged lower, ending
a three-day winning streak on the Topix index, after mixed U.S.
economic reports failed to assuage concern the world’s largest
economy is slowing.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which counts  North America  as its
largest market, dropped 0.5 percent.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. (8316)  slipped 0.6 percent even after German lawmakers
yesterday voted to expand a euro-region rescue fund that may
help avert a financial crisis.  Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd. (5802) 
plunged 8 percent on concern it will be the next Japanese maker
of wire harnesses to be hit with U.S. fines for price fixing.  The Topix slipped 0.2 percent to 761.17 at the 3 p.m. close
of trading in  Tokyo . The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average was little
changed at 8,700.29 after earlier falling as much as 0.6 percent.
For the week, the gauge gained 1.6 percent amid signs  Europe ’s
policy makers may resolve the region’s debt-crisis.  “Concern about the U.S. economic slowdown are lingering,
and we need to see more data,” said Juichi Wako, a senior
strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc. “We got a
reprieve from Europe’s debt crisis.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.5 percent
today. The index rose 0.8 percent in  New York  yesterday after
applications for jobless benefits dropped to the lowest since
April and revised gross domestic product numbers showed the  U.S.
economy  grew faster in the second quarter than initially
estimated.  ‘Sentiment Ebbs’  A separate report showed contracts to purchase previously
owned U.S. homes fell for a second month in August, indicating
the housing market that triggered the recession has yet to
recover.  “Sentiment ebbs and flows very quickly nowadays,” said
 Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in equities at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “People are still very
uncertain about the macro-economic outlook.”  The Topix fell 10 percent this quarter, its worst
performance since the three months through June 2010. Stocks
have fallen amid concern sputtering U.S. growth and Europe’s
debt crisis will stifle demand in two of  Japan ’s biggest markets.
For the month the index dropped 1.2 percent.  Japanese stocks slipped today after a report showed
industrial production rose less than expected last month,
signaling a strong yen and slowing growth abroad are weighing on
the nation’s recovery from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.
Factory output increased 0.8 percent from July, less than the
1.5 percent gain forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Toyota, Sony  Toyota fell 0.5 percent to 2,688 yen.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s
No. 1 exporter of consumer electronics, declined 0.5 percent to
1,507 yen.  Japanese banks fell even after  Germany ’s lower house voted
to expand a European bailout fund. Confidence that the 440
billion euro ($599 billion) facility will be in place by mid-
October allows the region’s finance chiefs next week to discuss
enacting a permanent rescue fund that provides more capital and
tools for managing defaults.  “I’m not convinced that this bailout package is going to
be remotely enough for the  euro zone  itself,”  Wilbur Ross , the
billionaire chairman of private-equity firm WL Ross & Co., said
yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” with Betty Liu. “I think it should start with a ‘T,’ not
a ‘B,’” he said, referring to trillions instead of billions.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest lender,
fell 0.3 percent to 354 yen. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial slipped
0.6 percent to 2,206 yen.  Sumitomo Electric Industries, a maker of wire harnesses
under investigation in the U.S. for price fixing, plunged 8
percent to 917 yen. The stock dropped after smaller rival,
Furukawa Electric Co., agreed to plead guilty and pay a $200
million fine for its role in a bid-rigging conspiracy involving
the sale of parts to automakers. Furukawa dropped 5.3 percent to
213 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John McCluskey  at   j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net . 