-- 
Japanese Dump Real Funds at Fastest Pace Since Earthquake: Brazil Credit

-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-09-30T21:23:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/japanese-dump-real-funds-at-fastest-pace-since-earthquake-brazil-credit.html
Japanese investors, who hold $102
billion worth of Brazilian assets, are pulling the most money
out of the Latin American country’s currency market since April,
deepening a slide in the real that’s fueling bond losses.  Pensioners and other individual investors took 52.7 billion
yen ($689 million) out of so-called currency overlay funds that
speculate on the real this month through yesterday, according to
data compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. The 16.8 percent drop in
the real in the past three months, the second-worst performance
among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Polish
zloty, handed local bond investors a 10.5 percent loss in dollar
terms, according to JPMorgan Indexes.  Japanese investors are exiting Brazil’s foreign-exchange
market as the central bank cuts interest rates while inflation
quickens and as  Europe ’s debt crisis fuels concern the global
economy will sink into recession. Japanese mutual funds had
boosted their investment in the currency, stocks and bonds of
Latin America’s biggest economy to 7.9 trillion yen at the end
of August from less than 1 trillion yen in 2009, according to
data compiled by Nomura Holdings Inc.  “We are seeing signs that the Japanese investors are
leaving and it’s very significant because the size of their
investment is huge,” Mauricio Junqueira, who helps manage about
$300 million at Squanto Investimentos in  Sao Paulo , said in a
telephone interview. “Even a 10 percent outflow will cause
pretty important changes in the real.”  Global Recession  The losses in real-denominated bonds in the past three
months compared with an average decline of 8.6 percent among
emerging-market debt, according to JPMorgan. While a rally in
Brazilian bonds drove down yields on benchmark securities due
2021 by 86 basis points, or 0.86 percentage point, to 11.62
percent in the third quarter, the real’s slump wiped out
investors’ returns in dollars.  The real touched a two-year low of 1.9549 per dollar on
Sept. 22, prompting the central bank to step into the futures
market for the first time in two years to stem losses. The
currency sank 20.4 percent against the yen, erasing all the
gains since March 2009. All 25 emerging-market currencies except
the Chinese yuan fell against the dollar since the end of June.  International investors expect the world economy to relapse
into a recession, according to a Bloomberg poll conducted Sept.
26. About two-thirds of those surveyed say the international
economy is deteriorating, up from just 18 percent who felt that
way in the last poll, in May.  Surprise Cut  Japan ’s overlay funds held about $40 billion in non-
deliverable forwards, which is the equivalent of about 13
percent of Brazil’s foreign reserves, according to JPMorgan’s
currency strategists Junya Tanase and Anna Hibino. Investors
withdrew 71 billion yen from the overlay funds in April after an
earthquake and tsunami in Japan left about 19,000 people dead or
missing and caused the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  The overlay funds buy currencies including the real and
Australian dollar in addition to investing in high-yielding
securities such as non-investment-grade U.S. corporate debt to
boost returns. Japanese banks sold the first real overlay funds
to retail investors in early 2009.  The real’s plunge deepened after the central bank
unexpectedly lowered its benchmark  interest rate  a half-
percentage point to 12 percent on Aug. 31 even as inflation
quickened to a six-year high. Consumer prices rose 7.33 percent
in the year through mid-September, exceeding the upper limit of
the government’s target range for a fifth straight month.  ‘Another Layer’  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , speaking in Brasilia a day
after the rate cut, called the move an “antidote” to weaken
the real after it rallied 46 percent since the end of 2008,
crimping exports. The government has also imposed a tax on
currency derivatives and restricted foreign borrowing from
companies this year to halt the rally, which sent the real to a
12-year high of 1.529 per dollar on July 26. It fell 2.1 percent
today to 1.8794.  “The problem with the Brazilian market is that there’s a
lot going on at the same time,” Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a
strategist at RBS Securities Inc., said in a telephone interview
from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . The retreat of Japanese investors
would “provide another layer of volatility and price
correction,” she said.  More than 70 percent of the Japanese investors in overlay
funds are retirees at least 60 years old, according to Nomura,
the largest brokerage firm in Japan. Investors are unlikely to
step up redemptions because the monthly payments they receive
from the funds aren’t affected by the day-to-day swings in
global financial markets, said Yujiro Goto, a currency
strategist at Nomura in New York. Yields on Brazilian real
forwards contracts are still attractive, he said.  ‘Not Rushing’  At 8.2 percent, three-month implied yields on the real’s
non-deliverable forwards are the third highest among 38
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “They are not rushing into selling,” Goto said in a
telephone interview. “They can take more financial risk.”  The yield on overnight interest-rate futures contracts due
in January 2012 fell 10 basis points to 11.08 percent,
indicating the central bank will lower borrowing costs by about
125 basis points to 10.75 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose five
basis points to 276, according to JPMorgan.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default rose
14 basis points to 202, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a government or company fails to adhere to its
debt agreements.  More Withdrawals  About 1.6 million Japanese nationals or people of Japanese
descent live in  Brazil , the biggest community outside of the
Asian country, according to the country’s embassy in Brasilia.
Japanese started to immigrate to the South American nation in
the early 20th century as laborers working in coffee
plantations.  JPMorgan’s strategists said Japanese investors in overlay
funds may pull more money out of Brazil after the real dropped
to a two-year low versus the yen and the Nikkei index of
Japanese stocks, a gauge of demand for higher-yielding assets,
fell below 8,700.  “Since some invest in overlay funds specifically because
they want to gain exposure to that currency, they may be more
sensitive to currency movements,” Tokyo-based Tanase and Hibino
said in an e-mail. “The impact of large unwinding of real
overlay funds would be significant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ; 