-- 
KDDI to Replace Up To 2 Million Sony Phone Batteries That May Overheat

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   K a z u y o   S a w a
-- 
2011-09-30T06:45:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/kddi-to-replace-sony-made-batteries-in-casio-hitachi-phones.html
KDDI Corp. (9433) ,  Japan ’s second-largest
mobile-phone operator, will replace  Sony Corp (6758) .-made batteries
used in as many as 2 million handsets because of concerns the
devices may overheat.  The replacement affects three models made by Casio Computer
Co. and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and sold between 2007 and 2009, KDDI said
in a statement today. The cost of the replacements  and who will
bear it hasn’t been determined, KDDI Vice President Toshio Maki
said at a press conference in  Tokyo .  The batteries may produce heat and melt, KDDI said today
after investigations following two customer complaints in 2010
and six this year. Sony, Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics, apologized in 2006 for the largest recall in
consumer-electronics industry after computer makers including
Dell Inc. returned 9.6 million  lithium-ion batteries  on concerns
some could overheat and become fire hazards.  “Considering Sony’s overall business size, the expense for
the battery replacement won’t likely be serious,” said Keita
Wakabayashi, an analyst at Mito Securities Co. “But this could
lead some consumers to question the reliability of Sony’s
products.”  The replacement involves two handsets of Casio and one by
Hitachi, according to the KDDI statement. One person suffered
minor burns, Keiichi Sakurai, a KDDI spokesman, said without
elaborating.  Toyota’s Recall  KDDI fell 3.4 percent to 536,000 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading in Tokyo, marking a third straight day of declines. Sony
dropped 0.5 percent while Casio declined 2.4 percent and Hitachi
slid 0.8 percent.  Other Japanese companies have also recalled products
recently. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest automaker,
recalled at least 8 million U.S. vehicles starting in 2009,
after claims of defects and incidents involving sudden,
unintended acceleration. The recalls set off hundreds of
economic-loss suits and claims of injuries and deaths.  Jin Tomihari, a Sony spokesman, said the expense for the
replacement is uncertain as the company needs to discuss the
issue with the handset makers and KDDI. Any impact on Sony’s
earnings will be “minor,” he said in a phone interview.  Sony, the maker of Bravia televisions and PlayStation game
consoles, slashed its earnings forecast for the year ending
March 31 by 25 percent in July, citing lower TV demand in  Europe 
and the U.S. In 2006, Sony said the replacement would cost the
company 51 billion yen ($666 million).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Kazuyo Sawa in Tokyo at 
 ksawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  