-- 
Kenyan President Vows Measures to Stabilize Shilling, Prices

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-30T15:11:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/kenyan-president-pledges-measures-to-stabilize-shilling-prices.html
Kenya  plans “various measures” to
contain inflation that’s more than triple the government’s
target and to stabilize the shilling, the world’s worst
performer versus the dollar in 2011, President Mwai Kibaki said.  “These will address the speculation in the trading of
foreign exchange as well as reduce the rate of inflation,”
Kibaki said in an e-mailed copy of a speech delivered in
Nairobi, Kenya’s capital, today. “In addition, the central bank
will diversify sources of building up its foreign-exchange
reserves.” He didn’t provide further details.  Kenya’s central bank raised the key lending rate by 0.75
percentage points to 7 percent on Sept. 14. Inflation rose for
the 11th consecutive month to 17.3 percent in September on
higher food and fuel costs. The shilling fell to a record low.  Central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, who has accused
speculators of playing a role in the currency’s slide, said on
Sept. 27 that the bank is investigating commercial lenders for
possibly exploiting their “market power.” The regulator plans
to sidestep lenders by buying and selling foreign exchange
directly to key industries to help the shilling, he said.  The currency, which depreciated 20 percent against the
dollar this year to a record low of 104.2 on Sept. 27, was
trading 0.5 percent weaker by 5:09 p.m. in Nairobi, compared
with a close of 99.75 yesterday.  IMF Funds  Kenya has asked the  International Monetary Fund  to release
additional funds from its Extended Credit Facility to help deal
with the weakening shilling, Kibaki said on Sept. 8.  In January, the Washington-based IMF approved a three-year
funding arrangement worth the equivalent of about $508.7
million, with an initial disbursement of $101.7 million. An
additional payment of $65 million was approved in June.  Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , Kibaki’s partner in a power-
sharing government, this week formed a team of government
officials and industry leaders to devise ways to help smooth
volatility in the  currency market . The panel is expected to
release its recommendations next week. The central bank’s
Monetary Policy Committee is due to meet on Oct. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  