-- 
Kenyan Stocks Sub-Sahara’s Worst in Quarter on Growth Concern

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-09-30T11:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/kenyan-stocks-sub-sahara-s-worst-in-quarter-on-growth-concern.html
Kenya ’s stock index fell, extending
its biggest quarterly drop since 2009 and making it sub-Saharan
 Africa ’s worst performer in the period as concern global growth
is slowing curbed demand for riskier assets.  The 55-member Nairobi Stock Exchange All Share Index
retreated 1.2 percent to 56.65 by 1:23 p.m. in Nairobi, the
capital, taking its drop so far this quarter to 20 percent. That
would be the worst quarterly performance since the three months
through March 2009.  Kenya’s inflation rate rose to 17.3 percent this month as
the cost of food and oil surged, the statistics agency said
yesterday. The economy contracted a seasonally adjusted 4.6
percent in the second quarter, as poor rainfall hurt farm
output, it said.  Europe ’s sovereign debt problems and a possible
default by  Greece  are threatening global growth.  “There has been flight of capital to safer securities,”
Alistair Gould, head of trading and business development at
Nairobi-based Reliable Securities Ltd., said by phone today.
“Our currency has experienced volatility and foreign investment
in stocks is declining.”  The shilling has lost 20 percent this year against the
dollar, making it the worst-performing currency worldwide,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Price growth has
exceeded the government’s 5 percent target all year, as Kenya
feels the effects of the worst regional drought in 60 years,
which has cut agricultural production and forced the country to
boost food imports, including sugar whose retail price has more
than doubled this year.  Pan Africa Insurance Ltd. dropped the most in the quarter,
losing 40 percent, while  Barclays Bank of Kenya Ltd. (BCBL)  retreated
38 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  