-- 
Keynes, Hayek Preside at Jobs Debate: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-09-30T00:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/keynes-hayek-preside-at-washington-jobs-debate-caroline-baum.html
(Corrects spelling of name in 17th paragraph.)  Maybe it was the concurrence of the
two articles, or their disparate views, that got me thinking
about how little progress we’ve made.  I’m not referring to the lack of progress in restoring the
 U.S. economy  to health, but to the failure to reach a consensus
on what exactly drives growth and fosters economic well-being.  Robert Lucas, a Nobel-winning economist from the  University
of Chicago , was the subject of the Wall Street Journal’s Sept.
24  weekend interview . Lucas is known for applying rational
expectations theory -- the idea that people make economic
decisions based on past experience and expectations about the
future -- to demonstrate why government intervention doesn’t
have the desired effect.  The next day,  Christina Romer , professor of economics at
the  University of California , Berkeley, proffered the Keynesian
view in the New York Times’  Sunday Business  section. Romer, who
stepped down last year as chairman of President Barack Obama’s
 Council of Economic Advisers , was arguing for an even larger
jobs bill than the $447 billion one Obama proposed. She said
policy makers need to determine “which measures will be most
effective in putting people back to work.”  How exactly do they do that? The determination of
effectiveness is a number spit out by an econometric model that
is only as good as the assumptions that go into it. Remember
Romer’s 3.5 million jobs “created or saved” by 2009’s $830
billion fiscal stimulus? Tell that to today’s 14 million
unemployed Americans.  Still Raging  If Lucas is right, the government’s best intentions may be
fraught with disappointment. Obama’s jobs plan, with its
temporary tax cuts for employees and employers, won’t lead to
more spending if workers are afraid of losing their jobs. Nor
will it nudge businesses to assume a long-term expense in
exchange for a one-time tax credit -- unless they are planning
to hire anyway.  Reading Lucas’ and Romer’s ideas back-to-back made me think
about the battle that has dominated the dismal science probably
since its inception. EconStories.tv used a  rap video  to pit the
ideas of  John Maynard Keynes  against those of Friedrich von Hayek, the Austrian (by birth and belief system) free-market
economist. The refrain of “Fear the Boom and the Bust,”
released last year and viewed by 2.7 million people, says it
all:  “We’ve been going back and forth for a century.”  (Keynes) “I want to steer markets.”  (Hayek) “I want them set free.”  Authors  Daniel Yergin  and Joseph Stanislaw chronicled the
ebb and flow of the two schools of thought, one interventionist,
the other laissez-faire, throughout the 20th century in their
1998 book, “The Commanding Heights: The Battle for the World
Economy.”  PBS  turned the book into a superb six-hour series,
the first episode of which is titled, “The Battle for Ideas.”  That battle still rages. In the 21st century, it was
evident in the ex-post analysis of the financial crisis, as the
blame for the housing bubble, bust and financial fallout was
assigned alternatively to capitalism (greedy bankers) or
government policy. It smolders today in  Washington  as the two
parties debate measures to revive the U.S. economy.  Why are we still at this juncture? Hasn’t macroeconomics
advanced to the point where, before we prescribe medicine for
what ails the economy, we can know with a relative degree of
certainty whether it helps or hurts?  I talked to many economists about the state of
macroeconomics. Their responses, filtered through my own prism,
are encapsulated below.  1.  Flying Blind  “There’s a lot we don’t know about macroeconomics and
particularly about business-cycle theory,” says Harvard’s Greg Mankiw.  That’s why he begins his “Ec 10” class on the principles
of economics -- still Harvard’s most popular course -- with
microeconomics: “the stuff we do know,” such as supply and
demand, the utility function and profit maximization. Basic
principles, in other words. Things like, if you tax something
more, you get less of it. (You can’t repeat that often enough.)  2.  Inexact Science  Economics is considered to be a social science. Unlike the
natural sciences, where one can conduct a controlled study, it’s
impossible to hold everything else constant in something as
complex as an economy. There are too many moving parts to
isolate the effect of any single variable, such as
infrastructure spending or targeted tax cuts.  Economists have a simple way of dealing with this issue.
They publish their findings with the default caveat of “ceteris
paribus,” or other things being equal, which they never are.  3.  Math as Science  Econometricians have tried to make economics appear
scientific by dressing it up with mathematics. Models have
replaced logic. Economists tell us with a straight face that a
specific dollar amount of  government spending  will generate 1.9
million jobs.  “Stop using decimal points,” says Russ Roberts, professor
of economics at  George Mason University  and co-creator, with
producer John Papola, of  EconStories . “Get rid of the grandiose
claims. Go back to first principles.” (See No. 1 above.)  4.  Good Politics, Bad Policy  It’s no coincidence that conservatives tout Hayek’s
government-do-nothing philosophy while liberals advocate
Keynesian stimulus, the bigger the better. Sometimes it’s hard
to know which is the driver: the policy or the politics.  Often the ideas seem to provide the ammunition for
advocating certain policies. You know what they say about guns
falling into the wrong hands. By the time the politicians are
done with them, the ideas have been subsumed by ideology.  5.  Wrong Ballpark  Forget Keynes and Hayek, says  Laurence Kotlikoff , professor
of economics at  Boston University  and a Bloomberg View
columnist. “The interesting macro that’s  relevant  isn’t getting
any attention,” he tells me. What we’re dealing with is
“coordination failure.”  As Kotlikoff explains it, “there is no auctioneer clearing
markets,” no place where buyers and sellers can come together.  “Like the agora of ancient  Greece ?” I ask, hoping to
sound smart.  Too literal, he says. There is no forward market for labor,
for example. No contingent claims market.  Uh-huh. Now I know I’m out of my depth. Suddenly it’s not
so hard to see why macroeconomics doesn’t have all the answers.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 