-- 
Kirin Said to Offer at Least 2 Billion Reais for Schincariol Minor Stake

-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 
2011-09-30T17:40:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/kirin-said-to-offer-1-08-billion-for-stake-in-brazil-brewer-schincariol.html
Kirin Holdings Co., the Japanese
brewer seeking control of Schincariol Participacoes e
Representacoes, is offering at least 2 billion reais ($1.08
billion) to buy out minority investors in the Brazilian beer
maker, said a person with knowledge of the process.  The plan is to offer minority shareholders a per-share
price that’s close to what Kirin agreed to pay majority holders
Adriano and Alexandre Schincariol, the sons of the founder, said
the person, who declined to be identified as talks are private.
Kirin agreed last month to pay 3.95 billion reais for Aleadri-
Schinni Participacoes e Representacoes SA, which owns 50.45
percent of the brewer.  An agreement may help resolve the court dispute holding up
the deal, which would give Kirin a foothold in  Latin America ’s
largest beer market with brands such as Nova Schin and Devassa.
Jose Augusto Schincariol, Daniela Schincariol and Gilberto
Schincariol Junior, who own the rest of the Brazilian beer
maker, had sued to block Kirin’s purchase, saying they have the
right of first refusal on Aleadri-Schinni’s holdings.  Kirin, based in  Tokyo , is assuming half Schincariol’s 1.1
billion reais in debt as part of the transaction. The brewer is
still negotiating with minority and majority shareholders over
who will assume Schincariol’s labor, legal and tax liabilities,
which stood at 2.1 billion reais at the end of 2010.  Kirin hired UBS AG for the deal with the minority
shareholders, two people familiar with the process said.
Citigroup Inc. advised Kirin for the controlling stake.  Buying Spree  Brazil ’s  Supreme Court  of Justice is scheduled to deliver a
decision on the matter Oct. 11.  Kan Yamamoto, a spokesman for Kirin, declined to comment.
Teixeira Martins, a  law firm  that represents Schincariol
minority shareholders, declined to comment. Mattos Filho Veiga
Filho Marrey Junior e Quiroga Advogados, a law firm that
represents Schincariol’s majority shareholders, declined to
comment. UBS and Citigroup declined to comment.  Kirin,  Japan ’s second-largest brewer by volume, has made or
proposed at least five acquisitions in 2011. The Schincariol
purchase is the second-largest in the beer industry this year,
trailing only SabMiller Plc’s A$9.9 billion ($9.64 billion)
offer for Foster’s Group Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  