-- 
Kodak Said to Weigh Bankruptcy Filing to Clear Path for Selling Patents

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-10-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/kodak-said-to-weigh-bankruptcy-filing.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , the unprofitable
131-year-old camera maker, is weighing options including a
bankruptcy filing because of concerns raised by possible buyers
of its patent portfolio, said three people with direct knowledge
of the process.  Some potential bidders for the patents are wary of
proceeding because a purchase may amount to a so-called
fraudulent transfer if Kodak is insolvent, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the talks are private. Kodak
confirmed that it hired  Jones Day  to advise it on considering
options and said it doesn’t plan to seek  bankruptcy protection .  “As we sit here today, the company has no intention of
filing, and there is no change in our strategy to monetize our
intellectual property,” Gerard Meuchner, a spokesman for Kodak,
said yesterday. “We’re not concerned about fraudulent
conveyance in regards to the sale of our IP portfolio.”  The company will make a $14 million coupon payment due
today, he said. Meuchner declined to comment on whether the
company had discussed a potential filing with law firms, saying
that Kodak is “focused on the fourth quarter and on delivering
on our strategy to become a profitable, sustainable digital
company.”  A number of suitors, such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) , have signed
confidentiality agreements to examine the assets, said the
people. If a sale was judged fraudulent, creditors may sue for
more money, said one of the people. A bankruptcy filing may help
clear the way for a patent sale, said the people. The sale could
fetch about $3 billion, MDB Capital Group estimates.  Law Firms  Kodak also has discussed its options with law firm Kirkland
& Ellis LLP, the people said. Companies may hire bankruptcy or
restructuring counsel to advise on options besides bankruptcy,
including debt restructuring, asset sales or operational
improvements.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  is advising Kodak on options for the
patent portfolio.  Kodak plunged 91 cents, or 54 percent, to 78 cents a share
yesterday in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, the
biggest drop since at least 1974. Trading was halted four times
by circuit breakers introduced following the May 6, 2010, crash
to prevent losses in one security from spreading throughout the
stock market.  The cost to protect Kodak’s debt from default jumped.
Credit-default swaps linked to the company rose 4 percentage
points to 66.5 percent upfront, according to data provider CMA.
That means investors would pay $6.65 million initially and
$500,000 annually to protect $10 million of Kodak’s debt for
five years.  Debt Rating  Kodak’s debt is rated CCC by Standard & Poor’s and Caa2 by
Moody’s Investors Service. The ratings are the eighth levels
below investment grade at each firm.  A representative from Kirkland declined to comment. Katelin
Todhunter-Gerberg, a spokeswoman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google, didn’t immediately respond to voicemail and e-mail
messages seeking comment, nor did an official for Jones Day.  Moody’s cut Kodak’s bond ratings Sept. 27 and indicated
further reductions may follow, citing “ongoing weakness” in
the company’s operations. Kodak, which tapped a  credit line  last
month, has seen its market value sink by more than $30 billion
from its 1997 peak.  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez, who took the helm in
2005, has sharpened Kodak’s focus on the printing business to
help revive revenue. Perez announced plans in July to explore
options for the portfolio of more than 1,100 patents, including
some for processing, editing and storing images.  ‘A Conundrum’  “What’s facing Kodak is whether it can give assurances to
third-party buyers that they’re not going to get sued,”  Mark Kaufman , an analyst at Rafferty Capital Markets in New York,
said yesterday by telephone. “Here’s the irony: If they sell
the assets for a good price, the issues of insolvency are over.
It’s a conundrum.”  A bankruptcy filing “would be a mechanism to get this
asset sale done,” said Kaufman, the only analyst among seven
tracked by Bloomberg who rates Kodak as “buy.” He values the
patents at $2.4 billion.  Kodak’s sales have fallen by half since 2005 to $7.2
billion last year, with further declines predicted this year and
next. The company’s losses since 2008 exceed $1.76 billion.  Kodak, whose origins date back to 1880, was founded by
George Eastman, who introduced the Kodak camera eight years
later, according to the company’s website. Kodak has shifted
away from traditional film as consumers gravitated toward
digital cameras.  Kodak Investors  Kodak’s top debtholders include Fidelity Management &
Research, Fidelity International, Banc One Investment Advisors,
Davidson Kempner Capital Management LLC and OppenheimerFunds
Inc., according to Bloomberg data.  Fidelity and its affiliates ranked as the largest Eastman
Kodak shareholders as of June 30 with a combined 24.4 million
shares, most of which was held in the form of bonds that are
convertible into common stock, according to regulatory filings.  The largest owner of actual Kodak stock was  Legg Mason
Inc. (LM) ’s LMM LLC, which held 18.2 million shares outright, the
equivalent of a 6.8 percent stake, when the second quarter
ended, the filings show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  