-- 
Korean Won Set for Biggest Monthly Loss Since February 2009; Bonds Fall

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-09-30T07:00:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/korean-won-set-for-biggest-monthly-loss-since-february-2009-bonds-fall.html
South Korea ’s won completed its
biggest monthly loss since February 2009 as signs the global
recovery is losing steam and  Europe ’s debt crisis prompted
investors to favor the dollar’s relative safety. Bonds fell.  The currency weakened today as a government report showed
industrial production fell more than economists forecast in
August. Overseas investors sold $1.5 billion more Korean stocks
than they bought this month through yesterday, based on exchange
figures. Data tomorrow is expected to show exports rose in
September at the slowest pace in three months, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  The won tumbled 9.45 percent this month to 1,178.10 per
dollar at the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The currency fell 0.4 percent today as  Greece 
struggles to meet the terms of a bailout.  “Demand for the dollar was strong recently because of
Europe’s debt crisis,” said Lee Jung Ha, a senior currency
dealer with  Korea Development Bank  in Seoul. “I expect the fear
that’s dominating the market to ease in the coming month as
Europe shows some progress in containing the crisis.”  The central bank reported yesterday a current-account
surplus of $401 million for last month, the smallest amount
since January. Government data showed today that factory output
fell 1.9 percent in August from July, the biggest drop since
February. Output was expected to decline 0.3 percent, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Mounting Risks  Export growth slowed to 16.6 percent in September from 25.9
percent in August, based on the median estimate in a separate
survey. Manufacturers’ confidence held at a 21-month low while
 consumer confidence  was the weakest since March, according to
central bank reports this week.  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its forecast for
global economic growth this year to 4 percent from 4.3 percent
last week. Its Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said the
downside risks to global economy are “piling up.”  South Korea’s benchmark three-year bonds declined this
month, paring a quarterly advance. The yield on the 3.5 percent
debt due June 2014 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, since the end of August to 3.54 percent, Korea Exchange
Inc. prices show. Benchmark notes of that maturity yielded 3.76
percent at the end of June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Inflation seems to have moderated in September with food
prices stabilizing, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said today.
The economy continues to see a gradual recovery, even while
facing uncertainties, Bahk said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  