-- 
NBA Labor Talks End Without New Agreement; More Meetings Set for Today

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-01T04:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/nba-labor-talks-end-without-deal-more-meetings-set-for-tomorrow.html
National Basketball Association  and
players’ union representatives will continue negotiations today
following about 4 1/2 hours of talks yesterday that included
participation by several All-Stars.  “We did not come out of here with a deal today, but we’re
going to be back tomorrow at 10 a.m.,”  National Basketball
Players Association  President  Derek Fisher  told reporters
yesterday at a Manhattan hotel. He said the sides are “not
necessarily” any closer to a deal than when they began the day.  Joining the talks were 21 NBA players including three-time
league Most Valuable Player  LeBron James  and All-Stars including
 Dwyane Wade ,  Carmelo Anthony ,  Kevin Durant  and  Paul Pierce .  “It gives our owners the opportunity to really see the
emotion and the focus in our guys’ eyes,” Fisher said of the
decision to invite top NBA players to the talks.  It was the 92nd day of a lockout that began July 1 after
the two sides were unable to agree on a new collective
bargaining agreement. Since then, the NBA has postponed the
start of training camps and 43 preseason games through Oct. 15.
The regular season is scheduled to begin Nov. 1.  “Both sides have expressed a willingness and a desire to
make a deal and both sides agree that the consequences of not
making a deal lead us to the prospect of possibly at some point
in the not distant future losing regular-season games,” NBA
Commissioner  David Stern  told reporters.  The league had about $4.3 billion in revenue last season, a
period during which Stern says teams collectively lost about
$300 million.  Stern, who three days ago said there would be “enormous
consequences” for the season from the talks this weekend,
called media reports that he would cancel the entire season if
an agreement to save it in its entirety couldn’t be reached
“ludicrous.”  “The only thing we said is that it’s hard in terms of
negotiations if you start to lose regular-season games because
both positions harden,” Stern said.  The talks now could very well stretch past this weekend,
according to NBA Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver.  “There are a lot of isses on the table, and even the
question of the number of hours in the day, I’m not sure we
could complete a deal this weekend,” Silver said. “I think the
question is how much progress we can make on the significant
issues.”  Stern disclosed yesterday that the league explained details
of its revenue-sharing plans to the union, which he said will be
at least triple this year’s amount, previously disclosed to be
$54 million, and likely quadrupled by the third year of a new
agreement.  “That will not be the issue that separates us,” Stern
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  