-- 
Netflix Said Not to Face Broadcast Regulation in Canada

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-09-30T20:53:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/netflix-said-not-to-face-broadcast-regulation-as-sought-by-bce-in-canada.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  won’t face regulation
in Canada after the country’s broadcast agency rejected calls
from  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and other cable providers that argued the
Internet-based movie company has a competitive advantage, two
people familiar with the matter said.  The Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications
Commission will announce next week it won’t undertake a formal
review of Netflix and other online providers, the two people
said, on condition they not be identified because the decision
hasn’t been made public.  The Gatineau, Quebec-based regulator held consultations on
whether Internet-based movie distributors should fund Canadian
broadcast content and face other regulations that cable and
satellite distributors such as  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  must
meet. Denis Carmel, a spokesman for the commission, said the
CRTC doesn’t comment on speculation.  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos ,  California , has been at the
center of disputes with cable and satellite companies in Canada
since it began offering unlimited movie downloads for C$7.99
($7.67) a month last year. The service has signed up 10 percent
of the broadband households in Canada, a feat that took six
years in the U.S., Ted Sarandos, chief content officer, said at
a Sept. 14 conference.  Netflix gained 7 cents to $113.27 at the 4 p.m. close of
trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock hit a 13-month low
yesterday, following reports that Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft
Corp. plan products that may siphon users. Apple also offers
online viewing through Apple TV, while Google Inc. has a movie-
rental service through Youtube.  Canadian Content  Canada’s major distributors have argued the increased
competition threatens to reduce revenue and will make them less
able to contribute to the fund for local content production.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government also has quelled
efforts by companies such as Montreal-based BCE and  Rogers
Communications  of Toronto to impose per-use billing on smaller
service providers on concern that it would stifle Internet-based
providers such as Netflix.  Quebecor Inc. Chief Executive Officer Pierre Karl Peladeau
said in June the arrival of companies such as Netflix is
spawning an uneven playing field for Canadian carriers, which
are subject to regulatory restraints and have made “colossal”
investments into network infrastructure.  Netflix has said that Canadian companies are exaggerating
the threat it represents, claiming its service has increased
competition in the market, encouraging Canadian companies to
introduce their own online video services.  By seeking help from regulators to slow down Netflix,
Canadian telecom companies are trying to “create another
competitive barrier to entry,” Netflix lawyer David Hyman said
in an April 27 letter to the regulator.  BCE, the country’s biggest phone company, rose 41 cents, or
1.1 percent, to C$39.29 at 4 p.m. on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Rogers,  Canada ’s largest mobile carrier, jumped 48 cents to
C$35.87.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  