-- 
New York Police on ‘Alert’ for Revenge Attacks After Al-Awlaki Killing

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-09-30T19:46:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/new-york-on-alert-for-revenge-attacks-after-al-awlaki-s-killing-in-yemen.html
The  New York City  Police Department
is on “alert” for revenge attacks following the killing in
Yemen of U.S.-born Islamic cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, Police
Commissioner Ray Kelly said.  “We know al-Awlaki had followers in the United States
including New York City, and for that reason we remain alert to
the possibility that someone might want to avenge his death,”
Kelly said in a statement, without mentioning specific measures.  Al-Awlaki, who masterminded Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab’s
attempted bombing of a Detroit-bound airplane in 2009 with
explosives hidden in his underwear, has been killed, the  Defense
Ministry  in Yemen said today.  “Having transformed the regional al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula into a terrorist organization with global reach, he
targeted Americans like no other, and he was a powerful
recruiter of terrorists in the  United States ,” Kelly said in
the statement.  U.S. officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a
missile from an American drone aircraft killed al-Awlaki in a
joint CIA-military operation. He was targeted near the town of
Khashef, 170 kilometers (106 miles) northeast of Sana’a, the
capital, the Yemeni foreign press office said.  Lieutenant Killed  Samir Khan, a Pakistani-American al-Qaeda militant living
in Yemen who was al-Awlaki’s lieutenant, died in the same
attack, Yemeni state-run Saba news agency reported, citing an
unidentified security official.  Kelly said Khan had “extensive contacts” in New York City
and published the “Inspire” English-language magazine that
gave instructions on how to build bombs at home and identified
Grand Central Terminal as a target in its most recent issue.  Al-Awlaki was described by the  Office of Foreign Assets
Control ’s list of “specially designated nationals” as a 40-
year-old native of  Las Cruces ,  New Mexico , with dual U.S. and
Yemeni citizenship. Last year, President  Barack Obama  approved
an order making him the first American ever to be placed on the
Central Intelligence Agency’s hit list.  Intelligence services said he also inspired a shooting
rampage that killed 13 people last year at an army base in Fort
Hood,  Texas . U.S. President Barack Obama said al-Awlaki’s death
is a “major blow” to al-Qaeda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  