-- 
New Jersey to Reimburse U.S. for $95 Million of Tunnel Money

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-09-30T23:11:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/new-jersey-to-reimburse-u-s-for-95-million-of-tunnel-money-2-.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
agreed to reimburse the U.S. Transportation Department $95
million for money the state was supposed to use to build
commuter-rail tunnels under the  Hudson River .  Christie killed the project in October 2010, prompting the
department to seek repayment of $271 million in federal money
the state had spent on it.  The first-term Republican was one of a few U.S. governors
to reject federal transportation money on the grounds that
providing needed matching funds would be too expensive. He also
said New York state and city weren’t putting in enough money.  The agreement “represents a fraction of the federal
government’s initial claim and won’t cost New Jerseyans any
additional money,” Christie said in a statement.  The five-year repayment schedule for the $95 million would
be offset by more than $100 million in refunds on liability
insurance to cover contractors and subcontractors,  Michael
Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, said by e-mail. New Jersey
will not have to pay $2.65 million in interest and penalties
accrued since DOT rejected the state’s appeal of its order to
repay the $271 million in April, Drewniak said in an e-mail.  The deal builds on an agreement, reached last December
between the Transportation Department and New Jersey Democratic
senators Frank Lautenberg and  Robert Menendez , that the state
wouldn’t have to pay back $128 million of the $271 million,
according to a  statement  released by Lautenberg’s office. The
state must spend the $128 million on other department-approved
transit projects, according to an e-mailed  statement  from the
transportation department today.  “The governor’s decision to kill the ARC tunnel project
will hurt New Jersey in the long-term, but we were happy to work
with the Department of Transportation to help reduce the costs
of this mistake,” the senators said in the statement.  Known as Access to the Region’s Core, the initiative was
meant to double the number of commuter trains that can enter  New
York  during peak times. Work on the tunnel began in 2009.  In February  Amtrak  proposed its own effort to expand access
to  Manhattan  for commuter and intercity passenger trains. The
U.S. passenger rail service was awarded $450 million in
transportation department grants in April to start work.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  