-- 
NFL Refuses to Reduce Former Ohio State Quarterback Pryor’s Suspension

-- B y   M i c h a e l   S i l l u p
-- 
2011-10-01T04:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/nfl-refuses-to-reduce-former-ohio-state-quarterback-pryor-s-suspension.html
The  National Football League  upheld
its five-game suspension levied upon former Ohio State
University quarterback Terrelle Pryor before he was drafted by
the  Oakland Raiders .  Pryor, who joined the Raiders in the supplemental draft in
August, was suspended for manipulating the NFL’s eligibility
rules.  Pryor intentionally committed acts that would force him to
be declared ineligible for collegiate play so he could enter the
supplemental draft, NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  said
yesterday in a statement.  “This smacks of a calculated effort to manipulate our
eligibility rules in a way that undermines the integrity of, and
public confidence in, those rules,” Goodell said.  The quarterback committed National Collegiate Athletic
Association rules violations that resulted in Ohio State
vacating all its wins last season.  Pryor was among the players who traded sports memorabilia
for cash and tattoos at a Columbus, Ohio, tattoo parlor. The
scandal cost Buckeyes football coach  Jim Tressel  his job when he
failed to notify OSU administrators.  Facing a five-game NCAA suspension, Pryor announced in June
that he would skip his senior season. Ohio State then declared
him ineligible and Pryor applied to enter the NFL.  Avoiding Discipline  Pryor ensured he would become ineligible to play for the
Buckeyes “to avoid the consequences of his conduct while in
college -- conduct to which he had admitted and for which he had
accepted a suspension -- and to hasten the day when he could
pursue a potentially lucrative professional career in the NFL,”
Goodell said.  “In my judgment, allowing players to secure their own
ineligibility for college play in order to avoid previously
determined disciplinary consequences for admitted conduct
reflects poorly not on college football -- which acted to
discipline the transgressor -- but on the NFL, by making it into
a sanctuary where a player cannot only avoid the consequences of
his conduct, but be paid for doing so,” Goodell said.  The player was first told he couldn’t enter the
supplemental draft, and then was later approved for inclusion by
Goodell as long as he was suspended for five games.  After the draft, Pryor appealed the NFL’s suspension. He
will be eligible to play in the NFL after the Raiders’ Oct. 9
game at the Houston Texans  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Sillup in New York at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  