-- 
Nigerian Breweries Buys Sona and Life to Expand Capacity

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-09-30T16:08:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/nigerian-breweries-buys-sona-and-life-to-expand-capacity-1-.html
Nigerian Breweries Plc (NB) , the
country’s biggest beer-maker by market value, said it acquired
Sona Systems Associates Business Management Ltd. and Life
Breweries Co.  With the takeover, the  Heineken NV (HEIA)  unit takes control of
Sona’s two brewing plants in the southwestern town of Ota and
the northern city of Kaduna, as well as a third formerly run by
Life Breweries in the southeastern city of Onitsha, the Lagos-
based company said in a statement published today by the
 Nigerian Stock Exchange . Nigerian Breweries didn’t say how much
it paid.  The acquisitions give Nigerian Breweries “immediate access
to additional capacity and also brand extension,” Tunde Abidoye, an analyst with FBN Capital Ltd. said today by phone
from Lagos. They will add about 3.7 million hectoliters to the
company’s production and broaden its product range, he said.  Nigeria, with more than 150 million people, is the
continent’s most populous country and is attracting investment
from global beermakers seeking to expand market share.  SABMiller
Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-largest brewer by volume, said on Feb.
25 that it plans a $100 million plant in Onitsha within two
years. Guinness Nigeria Plc, a beer-making unit of distiller
 Diageo Plc (DGE) , said on March 11 that it will spend $336 million to
expand brewing capacity in the country.  Nigerian Breweries rose 5 percent, the maximum daily limit,
to 79.78 naira by the 2:30 p.m. close in Lagos. The stock has
risen 2.9 percent this year, compared with a 18 percent decline
in the Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index over the same
period.  Editors: Dulue Mbachu,  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos on  at
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  