-- 
Nokia Completes Accord to Contract Out Symbian to Accenture

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-09-30T11:49:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/nokia-closes-deal-to-outsource-symbian-development-to-accenture.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s largest
mobile phone maker by units, completed a deal to contract out
its Symbian software development to  Accenture Plc (ACN)  as the
manufacturer shifts to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  as a platform supplier.  Symbian’s future “will be determined by Nokia based on the
capabilities they put into it and how they push it in the
marketplace, and we’ll be supporting that,” said Marty Cole,
head of the Accenture communications, media and technology unit
handling the work, said in an interview.  Nokia Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop adopted
Microsoft’s Windows Phone 7 as the company’s main smartphone
platform in February, sidelining Symbian. About 2,300 employees
will shift to Accenture, Espoo, Finland-based Nokia said today,
700 fewer than outlined in April when the plan was announced.  The Symbian workers will stay at Nokia sites for the time
being and there are currently no plans to move them, Cole said
by phone.  About 1,200 of the workers shifting to Accenture are in
 Finland , Nokia spokesman  Doug Dawson  said by telephone. The rest
are in the U.S., the U.K., India and  China . Another 700 Symbian
division employees “have found new roles either within Nokia or
outside it” since April, he said.  Microsoft Transfer Help  Accenture, the world’s second-largest technology-consulting
company, will also help Nokia shift from Symbian to Windows
Phone, Cole said. The Dublin-based company has worked with Nokia
since the mid-1990s and has a Seattle subsidiary called Avanade
that it set up with Microsoft to build services based on the
software maker’s products.  Accenture, which has 236,000 employees worldwide, is
expanding its mobile practice, which aims to build more
applications for clients in such industries as health care,
commerce, banking and automobile systems, Cole said.  Nokia will continue to be responsible for the architecture,
component definitions and scheduling of future Symbian releases,
Cole said. It has committed to supporting the 10-year-old
Symbian system through 2016, which is also the time frame of the
contract with Accenture.  The handset maker has revamped the system for touchscreen
devices and shipped two major updates of Symbian this year,
Symbian Anna and Symbian Belle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  