-- 
Norway Credit Growth Accelerates, Unemployment Declines

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-30T09:33:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/norway-credit-growth-accelerates-unemployment-declines-1-.html
Norway ’s household credit growth
accelerated at the fastest pace in almost three years in August
and registered unemployment fell more than forecast this month,
putting pressure on the central bank to resume tightening.  Household debt grew 7.2 percent in August from a year
earlier, the most since November 2008, the Oslo-based statistics
agency  said  today. The Labor and Welfare Organization said
registered unemployment fell to 2.5 percent in September from
2.7 percent in August. Economists estimated  unemployment  would
fall to 2.6 percent, according to the median of 10 estimates.  The economic data cause a “dilemma” for Norges Bank,
which in August postponed plans to raise its benchmark from 2.25
percent and this month signaled it may not resume tightening
until 2012 as a sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  and a
strengthening currency threaten exports, according to Nordea
Bank AB economist Katrine Boye.  “The mainland economy is doing quite well at the moment
and you have  house prices  rising and credit growth increasing
slowly, that is where the debt burden is high,” Boye said.  The krone fell 0.2 percent to 7.8949 per euro by 10:59 a.m.
Against the dollar it lost 0.6 percent to 5.8298.  Norway’s $524 billion sovereign-wealth fund has so far
shielded the country from the worst of Europe’s debt crisis. Low
borrowing costs have encouraged household to take on debt and
invest in property. House prices gained an annual 9.4 percent in
August, adding to an 8 percent rise last year, according to data
from Norway’s Real Estate Brokers Association.  The risk of the development of a housing bubble prompted
Norway’s Financial Supervisory Authority this week to suggest
stricter mortgage lending guidelines for banks.  The central bank estimates consumer debt burdens will grow
to more than 204 percent of disposable income next year, the
highest since at least 1988.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josiane Kremer at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  