-- 
O’Gara Gets Ireland Start; Samoan Fined for Mouthguard: World Cup Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-30T03:13:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/o-gara-gets-ireland-start-samoan-fined-for-mouthguard-world-cup-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
stories from the 2011 Rugby  World Cup  in New Zealand.  Murray, O’Gara Start  Ireland selected Conor Murray at scrum-half and retained
 Ronan O’Gara  at fly-half for its decisive pool match against
Italy on Oct. 2 in Dunedin.  Murray beat Eoin Reddan and Isaac Boss to a starting place,
while his Munster teammate O’Gara was chosen ahead of Jonathan
Sexton after being named man of the match in the 62-12 win over
Russia five days ago.  “This is the right combination for us against Italy,”
Ireland coach Declan Kidney said in comments distributed by
tournament organizers. “They’ve played a few times together
now.”  Pool C leader Ireland will finish atop the five-team group
if it avoids defeat.  Italy , which could seal a quarterfinal
place and eliminate the Irish by winning, made  one change  as
Andrea Masi replaced Luke McLean at full-back.  Wales  Rest Williams  Wales rested winger Shane Williams for its final pool game
against Fiji in two days so the nation’s record try scorer can
recover fully from a thigh strain.  “Shane might have been available to us if we had pushed
him,” Wales coach Warren Gatland said. “But he has taken a
limited part in training this week and we are happy with the
back three we have been able to put on the field.”  Leigh Halfpenny and George North will play on the wings,
while Lee Byrne continues at full-back and Scott Williams
partners Jamie Roberts in the centers. Fly-half Rhys Priestland
replaces Stephen Jones and Mike Phillips returns at scrum-half.  Hooker Huw Bennett was recalled to the front row alongside
Adam Jones and Gethin Jenkins. Luke Charteris replaces Alun Wyn
Jones in the second row.  Mouthguard Fine  Samoa winger Alesana Tuilagi was fined NZ$10,000 ($7,700)
by the International Rugby Board for wearing a branded
mouthguard in a pool match, Television  New Zealand   reported .  Tuilagi’s mouthguard wasn’t approved by the IRB before
Samoa’s Sept. 25 match against Fiji, TVNZ said.  IRB spokesman Dominic Rumbles said in an e-mail that he
couldn’t confirm if a fine was issued to Tuilagi. Tournament
organizer  Rugby World Cup  Ltd. said it communicated kit
specifications to the teams almost two years ago and had issued
warnings during the early stages of the tournament to ensure
team management and players were aware of their obligations.  “While fines and warnings have been issued during the
tournament, it is not RWCL’s position to publicize any breaches
or sanctions of what is a contractual matter between RWCL and
the participating unions,” RWCL said in an e-mailed statement.  Read, Muliaina Return  Full-back  Mils Muliaina  and No. 8 Kieran Read returned to
the All Blacks lineup as selectors made seven changes for their
final pool match against  Canada  in two days.  Muliaina will make his 99th Test appearance as Israel Dagg
switches to the wing in place of Cory Jane, while Read will play
his first World Cup game after recovering from an ankle injury.
Zac Guildford replaces  Richard Kahui  on the other wing and Sonny
Bill Williams takes over from Ma’a Nonu at inside center.  “It’s been a long three weeks,” Muliaina said at a news
conference. “I get an opportunity now to get out there. The
guys have set a benchmark.”  Andrew Hore  was named at hooker with  Ali Williams  in the
second row. Jimmy Cowan gets the starting scrum-half role in
what will be his 50th Test.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  