-- 
Investors Back Obama's Buffett Rule

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-09-30T18:04:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/obama-s-buffett-rule-backed-by-63-investors.html
Global investors overwhelmingly
support President Barack Obama’s proposed tax increase for those
earning annual incomes of $1 million or more in an effort to
reduce the deficit.  By a margin of 63 percent to 32 percent, respondents in a
Bloomberg Global Poll approved of the president’s proposal,
known as the “Buffett rule” in a nod to  Warren Buffett , the
chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., who has said it is wrong
that he pays a smaller share of his income in taxes than does
his secretary.  Obama said Sept. 19 that making sure that the wealthy pay
at least the same tax rate as the middle class was “just the
right thing to do.” House Speaker  John Boehner  accused the
president of practicing “class warfare,” saying any new tax
would hurt  job creation  and Buffett’s situation was not typical.  The call for the rich to pay more, however, found backing
among financial professionals in the quarterly Global Poll of
1,031 investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg
subscribers. “Higher tax payments could help to avoid or delay
potential social disturbances and in addition create some kind
of a general solidarity,” says Henry Littig, chief executive
officer of Henry Littig Global Investments AG in Cologne,
 Germany , a poll respondent.  In the U.S., support for the idea was lower, with more than
half opposing it, although four in 10 supported it. “The U.S.
does not have a tax rate problem -- we have a spending and
entitlement problem,” said poll respondent Jay Wright, managing
director of Samco Capital Markets in San Antonio,  Texas . “And
if we do not address it quickly we are going to be  Greece .”  Strong Support  Support for the millionaire’s tax was highest in  Europe ,
where French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  plans a 3 percent
surcharge on incomes above 500,000 euros ($680,000.) European
poll respondents backed Obama 78 percent to 17 percent;
Bloomberg customers in  Asia  supported the president’s idea 69
percent to 21 percent.  “Increasing taxes on millionaires may not harm the
economy, but it will not help it either,” said Don Lindsey,
chief investment officer at George Washington University, who
participated in the survey. “What we need is a complete
overhaul of the tax system.”  In a New York Times op-ed last month, Buffett wrote that
his federal income tax bill was $6.94 million, or 17.4 percent
of his taxable income -- a lower rate than any of the other 20
employees in his Omaha, Nebraska, office.  Ultra-Wealthy  In an interview today with Bloomberg Television, Buffett
said the “ultra-wealthy” should pay a new minimum tax, without
any change in tax rates on income or  capital gains . “An athlete
making $10 million -- he would not have a change in his tax rate
at all or $20 million or $30 million even,” Buffett said. “But
somebody that buys a stock index future and sells it
10 seconds later and gets 60 percent by long-term gains, he
would have a different world to live in.”  The new tax would apply to perhaps 50,000 individuals and
raise around $20 billion annually, Buffett said.  ‘Send in a Check’  Buffett has repeatedly said that his secretary pays a
higher share of her income in taxes than he does, prompting
Republicans such as Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  to
gibe: “If he’s feeling guilty about it, I think he should send
in a check.”  Some participants in the Bloomberg poll agreed. “Buffett
is being very deceptive,” said Michael Prisby, corporate
investment officer at Citizens Financial Bank in Munster,
 Indiana . “He may be taxed at a capital gains rate of 15
percent, but that doesn’t mean all high earners are.”  On average, taxpayers with annual incomes of more than $1
million last year paid a 29 percent tax rate, compared with 15.1
percent for those making between $50,000 and $75,000, according
to the non-partisan  Tax Policy Center  in  Washington .  Some high-income individuals, like Buffett, do pay a lower
average tax rate because much of their income is derived from
capital gains rather than wages. In 2009, the most recent
Internal Revenue Service data shows that 1,470 individuals with
at least $1 million in annual income paid no income tax.  ‘Disproportionate Rewards’  The debate over a “Buffett rule” tax caps an era in which
disproportionate rewards have gone to those at the top of the
nation’s income distribution. Between 1993 and 2008, the top 1
percent of families captured 52 percent of total income gains,
according to a 2010 paper by economist Emmanuel Saez of the
University of  California , Berkeley.  “The Buffett rule does not apply to all rich people or the
average rich person, but it does apply to some rich people,”
said  Roberton Williams , an analyst at the Tax Policy Center.  The administration has said it has no plans to submit a
detailed millionaires’ tax proposal to Congress. For now, that
means the main significance of the Buffett rule is political not
financial.  The proposed tax is the rhetorical centerpiece of White
House jockeying in the run-up to the deliberations of a
congressional “supercommittee” seeking $1.5 trillion in
deficit reduction by Nov. 23.  Earlier this week, Douglas Edwards, who described himself
as “unemployed by choice” after retiring as an early employee
from Google, urged the president to “please raise my taxes” at
a town hall in  Mountain View , California.  Far From Rich  Lionel Mellul, co-founder of Momentum Trading Partners in
 New York , said he endorsed the idea of the rich paying more,
while taking issue with the $1 million threshold. A New Yorker
with a $1 million annual income is “far from really being
rich,” he said.  In follow-up interviews, many respondents called for a
stem-to-stern overhaul of the  tax code .  “Until the administration completely overhauls the
personal and corporate tax code to both drive growth and
incentivize the efficient transfer of capital and risk, the
wealthy people will just have their tax lawyers find more
loopholes to lower their taxes,” said Jonathan Sadowsky, chief
investment officer at Vaca Creek Asset Management in  San
Francisco .  The quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted by Selzer
& Co., a Des Moines, Iowa-based firm, on Sept. 26. It has a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lynch at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  