-- 
Ocean Thermal Talking to African, Caribbean Utilities About Plants

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-30T13:54:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/ocean-thermal-talking-to-african-caribbean-utilities-about-plants.html
Ocean Thermal Energy Corp., a U.S.
developer of clean-energy technology, is talking to utilities in
 East Africa  and the Caribbean on building plants to generate
power using differences in sea temperatures.  The company would need to raise funds for the projects on
top of the money already in place for two 10-megawatt so-called
ocean-thermal energy plants it  agreed  to build for the Bahamas
Electricity Corp. on Sept. 22, Chairman Jeremy Feakins said.
It’s also studying an initial public offering within two years.  The Bahamas units, which will produce power and drinking
water, will cost about $100 million each, 75 percent funded with
bank debt, according to Feakins, also chief executive officer.  “The banks providing debt for the Bahamas projects are
interested to help on the debt side but they won’t put up any
equity,” he said. Ocean Thermal aims to design, build, own and
operate projects after signing customers up to 25-year or 30-
year agreements to buy the electricity and water produced.  “We have looked at the Alternative Investment Market and
we are interested in it and have had discussions,” Feakins
said. “It’s a great market for us because the U.K. and  Europe 
are very sympathetic towards renewable energy companies.” The
company is also studying an IPO in  Canada  for the same reason.  Building a plant takes 18 months to 2 years, using off-the-
shelf parts from the oil and gas industry to cut risks from new
technology and put financial backers at ease, Feakins said.  The company is introducing its operations in areas where
power is typically costlier to produce than in the U.S., helping
to counter the current expense of its technology, he said.  “The Bahamas and Cayman islands and a lot of other
Caribbean countries are paying about 40 cents a kilowatt-hour
for their electricity, which is huge compared to the U.S., for
example, which is 11 to 12 cents a kilowatt-hour,” he said.  Ocean-thermal  power plants  need warm water, limiting
projects to the Pacific region within 20 degrees of the equator,
Feakins said. These areas also need fresh water, he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  