-- 
Honeywell, P-Two, Apple, Canada Law, Righthaven: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-30T11:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/honeywell-p-two-apple-righthaven-intellectual-property.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  won a
jury’s verdict that a patent asserted by Solvay SA on technology
to replace ozone-depleting  chlorofluorocarbon  refrigerants is
invalid.  Solvay, based in Brussels, sued Morris Township, New
Jersey-based Honeywell in 2006 claiming infringement. The U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in  Washington , ruling
on an earlier decision that Honeywell infringed patent
6,730,817, had ordered further proceedings.  Jurors in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware, said
yesterday that the patent wasn’t valid because the invention was
anticipated by another patent and by a 1994 application,
according to court papers. Part of the description was obvious,
the jury said.  “Honeywell is pleased that the jury found Solvay’s patent
to be invalid,” Peter F. Dalpe, a Honeywell spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement. “Honeywell has always defended its
rights and will continue to do so vigorously.”  Neil Hirsch, a U.S.-based spokesman for Solvay, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is  Solvay SA (SOLB)  v. Honeywell International Inc.,
06CV557-SLR, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  P-Two,  Japan  Aviation Sign Patent Cross Licensing Contracts  P-Two Industries Inc. (6158)  and  Japan Aviation Electronics
Industry Ltd. (6807)  signed contracts on cross licensing patents
involving LVDS technologies, the Taiwan-based company said in a
statement to the local stock exchange yesterday.  Graceway Pharmaceuticals Seeks Bankruptcy, Sale to Galderma  Graceway Pharmaceuticals LLC, a maker of skin treatments
and asthma medication, sought bankruptcy protection with a plan
to sell its assets to Galderma SA for $275 million.  The closely held company, based in Bristol, Tennessee,
listed debt of as much as $1 billion and assets of as much as
$500 million in Chapter 11 documents filed yesterday in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Graceway cited the loss of patent protection on Aldara, a
cream used to treat precancerous skin growths and genital warts
that was once its biggest product. Net revenue from Aldara fell
to about $52.2 million in 2010 from about $320.8 million a year
earlier after generic-drugmakers gained the right to produce
cheaper equivalents, according to court documents.  Galderma, based in Cham,  Switzerland , agreed to buy
virtually all of Graceway’s assets in the U.S. and  Canada  for
about $275 million in cash, plus the assumption of certain
liabilities, according to court papers. Graceway said it will
ask to hold an auction to seek better offers. The company
expects to complete the sale by the end of January, according to
a statement issued Sept. 28.  The case is In re Graceway Pharmaceuticals LLC, 11-13036,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Steve Jobs Pushed Talks With Samsung to Address Patent Dispute  Steve Jobs, founder of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , initiated contact with
rival Samsung Electronics Co. in July 2010 to try to resolve a
patent dispute that has since become a legal battle on four
continents, an Australian court was told.  Jobs wasn’t involved once the ultimately unsuccessful talks
over the Galaxy smartphone began, Richard Lutton, a senior
director at Apple and the company’s patent attorney, told
Federal Court in Sydney yesterday.  “Samsung is an important supplier with whom we have a deep
relationship,” Lutton testified in response to questioning by
Samsung lawyer David Catterns. “We wanted to give them a chance
to do the right thing.”  Lutton testified at a hearing about Apple’s effort to block
Samsung from selling the Galaxy 10.1 computer tablet in
 Australia  until its patent claims are resolved at trial. Samsung
had already agreed to delay the sales of the tablets until
Justice Annabelle Bennett rules on Apple’s request. She said
that would likely occur next week.  The talks were confidential, Lutton said. Once lawyers
began to question him about the content of the negotiations,
Bennett cleared the courtroom to allow the testimony in private.  James Chung , a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, declined
to comment on Lutton’s remarks or the negotiations.  Apple claims that Samsung used its patents to copy the
iPhone and the iPads. Samsung has also sued with claims in  South
Korea , Japan,  Germany , the Netherlands and Australia that Apple
violated its own patents.  Samsung is the second largest supplier for Apple, while
Apple is Samsung’s biggest customer, according to Bloomberg
data.  Microsoft Applies for Patent for Modular Mobile Telephone  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest software company, is
seeking a patent for a mobile telephone with modular devices
that can be attached.  The Redmond, Washington-based company’s application
 20110230178 , published in the database of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office Sept. 22, is for a device to which a variety of
second modules can be attached. They could include game
controllers, batteries, physical keyboards, and a separate
display screen that could be seen while the user has the phone
lifted to the ear.  Microsoft noted in its application that with the enhanced
capabilities of modern mobile telephones has come a demand for
larger displays.  “To increase the size of displays any further would
require an increase in the size of the phones themselves,”
Microsoft said, arguing that “this is not desirable, as users
want their mobile phone to fit comfortably in their hand or in a
shirt or pants pocket.”  The company applied for the patent in March 2010. No
outside counsel is listed on the patent application.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Canada Reintroduces Law to Toughen Online Copyright  Canada introduced changes to its copyright law that would
give rights-holders more control over how works are distributed
online, and allow companies such as Apple Inc. to impose
“digital locks” on protected material offered on devices like
the iPad.  The bill is the latest attempt by the Canadian government
to modernize Canada’s Copyright Act, which last underwent major
changes in 1997.  Under the legislation, copyright owners will have exclusive
control over how works are made available on the Internet.
Owners will be able to apply “technological protection
measures,” commonly known as digital locks, to prevent
unauthorized access of copyrighted material.  “Canadians will soon have modern copyright laws that
protect and help create jobs, promote innovation, and attract
new investment to Canada,” Industry Minister Christian Paradis
said in a statement. “We are confident that this bill will make
Canada’s copyright laws forward-looking and responsive in this
fast-paced digital world.”  The proposed law will implement treaties, signed by Canada
in 1997, that establish rights and protections recommended by
the World Intellectual Property Organization.  The legislation is similar to earlier versions introduced
by the governing Conservatives that were blocked by opposition
parties. The bill may pass this time after Prime Minister
Stephen Harper’s Conservatives won a majority of seats in the
House of Commons in the May 2 general election.  Righthaven Seeks Appeals Court Emergency Order on Fee Award  Righthaven LLC, the Las Vegas organization that is
attempting to enforce the copyrights for Stephens Media Group’s
newspapers, filed papers with a federal appeals court seeking an
emergency stay of an attorney-fee demand.  The company is asking the appeals court to place on hold a
defendant’s demand for the fees he was awarded when his case was
dismissed.  The defendant had filed papers with the trial court asking
that Righthaven be put into receivership and its intellectual
property and other assets be seized to satisfy the fee award.  In its Sept. 27 filing with the U.S Court of Appeals in  San
Francisco , Righthaven said defendant Wayne Hoehn’s fee demand
places the company in “immediate threat of irreparable harm.”
In a declaration filed with the request, Righthaven’s attorney
says the company has proprietary search engine software that it
uses to identify potential infringers on the Internet.  Seizure and liquidation of Righthaven’s assets “could
result in the software being purchases by a competitor of
Righthaven,” according to the filing. Righthaven’s lawyer also
said that if the software is seized, it could be reverse
engineered so that potential infringers could “decipher means
of subverting detection.”  The company has run up against judicial skepticism that its
copyright assignments from Stephens and MediaNews Group Inc.
give Righthaven standing to file infringement suits. In the
appeals court filing, Righthaven’s counsel said in his filing
that a new version of its agreements with the media companies
should assuage the courts’ concerns.  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Wayne Hoehn, 11-16995,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco). The
lower court case is Righthaven LLC v. Wayne Hoehn, 2:11-cv-
00050-PMP-RJJ, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las
Vegas).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Chewzy Dogs Goes to Court Seeking Dog Biscuit Trade Secrets  Chewzy Dogs LLC, a company that sold dog treats from a
kiosk in  Triple Five Group ’s Mall of America in Bloomington,
Minnesota, sued its franchisor for failing to transfer
contracted trade secrets.  According to the complaint filed Sept. 26 in federal court
in Minnesota, Just Dogs! Barkery Inc., of Washington,
 Pennsylvania , was the franchisor with which Chewzy Dogs had
license.  The license covered a line of premium gourmet dog treats
prepared by or at the direction of Just Dogs! with proprietary
recipes and cut into various shapes with proprietary cutters and
molds, Chewzy Dogs said in the complaint.  Just Dogs! terminated all franchise agreements in June
2011, “without cause or reason,” Chewzy Dogs claims. In
connection with the end of the franchise agreement, Chewzy Dogs
says it was granted ownership of the trademarks “Just Dogs!
Gourmet,” and “World’s Tastiest Gourmet Dog Treats,” together
with the trade secrets associated with the marks.  The marks and the trade secrets covered by that agreement
have not been transferred, according to court papers. Chewzy
Dogs filed suit asking the court to order Just Dogs! to hand
over the trade secrets, including recipes, the cookie cutters
and the molds and the trademarks.  Additionally, it asked for awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  An attempt was made to contact Just Dogs! through its
website, which didn’t function yesterday.  Chewzy Dogs is represented by W. Michael Garner of
Minneapolis.  The case is Chewzy Dogs LLC v. Just Dogs! Barkery Inc.,
0:11-cv-02751-PAM-JSM, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota.  Trademark  Pirated Clothes, Music Seized at North Carolina Flea Market  Fake designer clothing and pirated movies and music worth
almost $1 million were seized in a raid in a Raleigh, North
Carolina, flea market, the Raleigh News & Observer  reported .  At a press conference following the raid, North Carolina
 Secretary of State Elaine Marshall  said those involved in the
sale of pirated goods are often also involved in organized
crime, the newspaper reported.  She also warned that some of the knock-off merchandise,
such as fake electrical extension cords, can be hazardous,
according to the newspaper.  Seven people were arrested in the raid and charged with
felony criminal use of a counterfeit trademark, the News &
Observer reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 