-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Fall, Post Biggest Quarterly Loss Since 2001

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-09-30T08:52:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/hong-kong-stocks-head-for-steepest-quarterly-drop-since-2001.html
Hong Kong  stocks fell, dragging the
Hang Seng Index to its biggest quarterly loss in a decade, as
U.S. economic reports failed to allay concern the global
economic recovery is stalling.  Li & Fung Ltd., a supplier of toys and clothes to retailers
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., dropped 3.6 percent. Chinese
stocks traded in Hong Kong slumped after a report the U.S. is
investigating allegations of accounting fraud at Chinese
companies. Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. tumbled 22
percent after Credit Suisse Group AG downgraded the stock.
Travel Expert Asia Enterprises Ltd. plunged 25 percent in its
Hong Kong trading debut.  “People are still very uncertain about the macro-economic
outlook,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in
equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne . “Sentiment ebbs
and flows very quickly nowadays.”  The Hang Seng Index dropped 2.3 percent to 17,592.41 as of
the close of trading in Hong Kong, dragging the measure down to
a 22 percent drop this quarter, its biggest decline since the
period ended September 2001. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises
Index of Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong slid 3.9 percent
to 8,917.36 today. Financial markets in Hong Kong were closed
yesterday because of a typhoon.  U.S. Stocks  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.9
percent today. The index rose 0.8 percent yesterday in New York
after applications for jobless benefits dropped to the lowest
since April and revised gross domestic product numbers showed
the  U.S. economy  grew faster in the second quarter than
initially estimated.  Global equities advanced yesterday after  Germany ’s lower
house voted to expand a European bailout fund. Confidence that
the 440 billion euro ($599 billion) facility will be in place by
mid-October allows the region’s finance chiefs next week to
discuss enacting a permanent rescue fund that provides more
capital and tool for managing defaults.  “I’m not convinced that this bailout package is going to
be remotely enough for the  euro zone  itself,”  Wilbur Ross , the
billionaire chairman of private-equity firm WL Ross & Co., said
yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” with Betty Liu. “I think it should start with a ‘T,’ not
a ‘B,’” he said, referring to trillions instead of billions.  Monthly Loss  Three of the four Hang Seng industry groups declined today,
with about five stocks falling for each that gained. The  Hang
Seng Index (HSI)  has plunged 14 percent this month, its largest
monthly loss since October 2008, on concern the global economy
will enter a recession amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing U.S.
economic growth. The gauge fell for its fourth consecutive
weekly decline.  Li & Fung slumped 3.6 percent to HK$13.22. Techtronic
Industries Co., an electronics maker that counts  North America 
as its biggest market, lost 0.4 percent to HK$5.29. HSBC
Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest lender by market value, slid 1.9
percent to HK$60.90.  So-called Chinese H-shares, or Chinese companies traded in
Hong Kong, slumped on a report that a top U.S. securities
regulator said the  Department of Justice  is reviewing
allegations of accounting fraud at firms operating out of the
Asian nation. Chinese Internet stocks tumbled in  New York 
trading yesterday following the report.  China Accounting Investigation  The U.S.  Justice Department  are “actively engaged in this
area,” Securities and Exchange Commission Enforcement Director
 Robert Khuzami  said in an interview with Reuters that was
published yesterday.  “With the latest movement from the U.S. securities
commission, people are trying to avoid risk,” said  Steven Leung ,
director of institutional sales in UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. in
Hong Kong. “There’s a growing perception that’s there’s risk in
this area of investment. Also, there’s growing worry about a
sharp slowdown in growth in China. Since the  market sentiment 
overall is quite weak, people will only respond to the negative
news.”  Also in China, a gauge of manufacturing shrank for a third
month, the longest contraction since 2009, as measures of new
orders and export demand declined.  China Banks, Coal  China Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled developer,
tumbled 8.5 percent to HK$8.49. Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd., China’s largest lender by market value, dropped 5.5
percent to HK$3.82.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the second-
biggest lender, slumped 5.7 percent to HK$4.79.  China Coal Energy Co., the nation’s third-largest coal
producer by market value, fell 7.9 percent to HK$7.07. China
Shenhua Energy Co., the listed unit of China’s biggest coal
producer, slid 6.1 percent to HK$31.05.  Coal producers also fell after the China Securities Journal
reported the nation’s plans to limit the mining of coal used in
steelmaking under regulations that the National Energy
Administration will issue soon. Companies seeking government
approval to explore for coal will face more stringent criteria,
citing people that it didn’t identify.  People Are Watching  “People are watching China a lot more closely because
there’s not a lot of growth supporting global economies
elsewhere,” said Pengana’s Schroeders. “It’s an ongoing
concern that China’s miracle at some stage will stop. Whether
policymakers will be able to adjust to highly volatile
circumstances outside of the Chinese economy is being tested
constantly.”  Among other stocks that fell, Gome Electrical Appliances, a
Chinese appliance retailer planning a property venture with its
jailed founder, tumbled 22 percent to HK$1.83. Credit Suisse
yesterday downgraded the stock to “neutral” from
“outperform,” citing concern about corporate governance.  Travel Expert Asia Enterprises, which started trading in
Hong Kong today, plunged 25 percent to 47 Hong Kong cents.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index fell 2.9 percent to 17,423.
The HSI Volatility Index rose 5.1 percent to 42.77, indicating
options traders expect a swing of 12 percent in the Hang Seng
Index in the next 30 days. Shares on the index traded at 9.4
times forecast earnings, compared with 11.7 times for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John McCluskey  at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net . 