-- 
Moody’s Lowers U.S. Lodging Industry Outlook as Economy Slows

-- B y   K a t i e   S p e n c e r
-- 
2011-09-30T17:32:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/moody-s-cuts-u-s-lodging-industry-outlook-as-hotel-shares-sink-on-economy.html
Moody’s Investors Service lowered
its outlook for the U.S. lodging and cruise industry as slower
economic growth threatens to limit demand for travel.  The rating company reduced its outlook to stable from
positive, according to a statement today. Growth in revenue per
available room, a key industry metric measuring rates and
occupancy, probably will slow to 3 percent to 7 percent in 2012
after rising at least 7 percent this year, Moody’s said.  “The change reflects significant risks to the economic
outlook,” Margaret Holloway, senior credit officer at  New York- 
based Moody’s, said in the statement. “The slow economy will
weigh on operators’ ability to raise rates, which will slow
profit growth.”  Shares of hotel operators have tumbled this quarter as U.S.
job growth stalled and the  Federal Reserve  said there are
“significant downside risks” to the  U.S. economy . The country
is “tipping into a new recession,”  Lakshman Achuthan , chief
operations officer for the Economic Cycle Research Institute,
said today in an interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  Marriott International Inc., the largest publicly traded
U.S. hotel chain, has dropped almost 22 percent in the third
quarter, the most since the end of 2008.  Starwood Hotels &
Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , owner of St. Regis and W brands, has
lost 29 percent, while  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  dropped 22 percent.
The declines were steeper than the slump in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, which has fallen 13 percent since June 30.  Lodging industry profits probably will increase 2 percent
to 6 percent next year, according to Moody’s. Corporate rate
negotiations may be more difficult than initially expected for
2012, making it unclear how much operators can raise average
daily rates, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Spencer in New York at 
 Katiespencer14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  