-- 
Ophelia May Graze Bermuda Tomorrow: NHC

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-10-01T00:16:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/ophelia-may-graze-bermuda-tomorrow-nhc.html
Ophelia, a Category 3 storm with
winds of 120 miles (193 kilometers) per hour, kept moving north
on a track that will take it to the east of  Bermuda  tomorrow.  Ophelia is 480 miles south-southeast of Bermuda and moving
north at 16 mph. A tropical storm watch is in effect for
Bermuda, where the outer edge of the system should arrive
tomorrow, according to a National Hurricane Center  advisory 
issued before 8 p.m. New York time.  “Tropical-storm-force winds are possible on Bermuda
starting Saturday afternoon,” according to the advisory.
“Large swells created by Ophelia will cause hazardous surf
conditions along the south shore beaches of Bermuda.”  It may also leave as much as 1 inch of rain on the island.  Hurricane-force winds of at least 74 mph stretch 30 miles
from Ophelia’s eye, and tropical storm-force winds of at least
39 mph extend 175 miles, according to the advisory. After
passing Bermuda, Ophelia may graze the southern coast of
Newfoundland early next week as it moves into the North
Atlantic, according to a hurricane center track.  “There is a strong likelihood that Ophelia has already
reached its peak intensity and only small intensity fluctuations
are anticipated during the next day,” according to a forecast
analysis prepared by Lixion Avila, a senior hurricane specialist
at the center.  Philippe’s Winds  Ophelia is one of 16 storms that have formed during this
year’s season, which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30. The Atlantic
normally produces 11 named storms with winds of at least 39 mph,
according to the hurricane center.  Farther to the east, Tropical Storm Philippe’s winds are 50
mph, according to the center. It is 1,100 miles east-northeast
of the Leeward Islands, which include the  U.S. Virgin Islands ,
and moving northwest at 13 mph. It presents no threat to land
for at least the next five days under the forecast NHC path.  In the Pacific, storm Hilary has fallen apart and the
hurricane center has stopped tracking it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 