-- 
Morgan Stanley Seen as Risky as Italian Banks in Swaps Market

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-09-30T20:58:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/morgan-stanley-seen-as-risky-as-italian-banks-in-swaps-market.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , which owns the
world’s largest retail brokerage, is being priced in the credit-
default swaps market as less creditworthy than most U.S., U.K.
and French banks and as risky as Italy’s biggest lenders.  The cost of buying the swaps, or CDS, which offer
protection against a default of New York-based Morgan Stanley’s
debt for five years, surged to 488 basis points as of 4:20 p.m.
in New York, or $488,000, for every $10 million of debt insured,
from 305 basis points on Sept. 15, according to prices provided
by London-based CMA. Italy’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  had CDS trading
at 422 basis points, and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  at 426, the data show. A
basis point is one-hundredth of a percent.  “The CDS spreads are making investors and creditors
nervous” about Morgan Stanley, said Brad Hintz, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York  who rates the company’s
stock “outperform,” in an e-mail.  The price of Morgan Stanley credit-default swaps continued
to climb earlier this week even when the firm’s shares rose. The
stock, which yesterday jumped 6.6 percent, today dropped $1.58,
or 10 percent, to $13.51 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading, the biggest drop in the 81-company S&P 500 Financials
Index. Shares are down 50 percent since the start of the year.  Implied Risk  Moody’s Analytics, an arm of Moody’s Investors Service
that’s separate from the company’s credit-rating business, said
in a report yesterday that Morgan Stanley’s CDS prices imply
that investors see the bank’s credit rating as having declined
to Ba2 from Ba1 in the last month. The company is actually rated
six grades higher at A2 by Moody’s Investors Service.  By comparison,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  France ’s  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA, which have CDS trading at 421 basis points and 340
basis points respectively, have prices that imply a rating of
Ba1, higher than the implied rating on Morgan Stanley, said
Allerton Smith, a banking-risk analyst at Moody’s Analytics in
New York.  Mark Lake, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley in New York,
declined to comment.  Morgan Stanley was the biggest recipient of emergency loans
from the  Federal Reserve  during the financial crisis and also
benefited from capital provided by Tokyo-based Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc., now the biggest shareholder, and the  U.S.
Treasury , which it repaid with interest.  2008 Peak  While the price of Morgan Stanley’s credit-default swaps is
at the highest level since March 2009, it’s nowhere near the
peak reached in 2008. On Oct. 10 of that year, the annual price
for five-year protection rose to the equivalent of 1,300 basis
points, according to data provided by CMA, a unit of CME Group
Inc. that compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The credit-default swaps market can be thinly traded, and
the recent jump in prices may reflect no more than a single big
counterparty seeking to hedge contracts, said Hintz, a former
Morgan Stanley treasurer. Morgan Stanley, one of the biggest
traders of CDS among U.S. banks, doesn’t make a market in its
own swaps, according to Smith of Moody’s Analytics.  The CDS market has features “that may not exist in other
markets like the  bond market  or the equities market,” Smith
said in a telephone interview. Having fewer participants trading
in the Morgan Stanley name could result in a “disproportionate
spread movement,” he said.  Trading Volume  The daily average trading volume in Morgan Stanley shares
over the last three months is 27 million shares, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. By contrast, a three-month  study 
released this week by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  found
that most single-name CDS trade less than once a day, while the
most active trade more than 20 times per day.  Trading in Morgan Stanley credit-default swaps has risen to
257 contracts  last week , compared with 187 for  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.
That compares with a weekly average of 73 trades in Morgan
Stanley and 91 in Goldman Sachs in the  six months  that ended on
Aug. 26, DTCC data show.  There was a net $4.6 billion of protection bought and sold
on Morgan Stanley debt as of Sept. 23, according to  DTCC . Even
with the higher trading volume, investor skittishness in the
face of  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis may be leaving few market
participants willing to sell CDS protection to meet the demand
for hedges, said Hintz.  “With the EU teetering, few other firms are going to jump
in and write CDS on a global capital markets player like MS,”
Hintz said in his e-mail, referring to the European Union and to
Morgan Stanley’s stock-market ticker symbol.  Trading Decline  The rise in Morgan Stanley’s CDS prices may also relate to
an expected decline in third-quarter trading revenue or to the
company’s exposure to French banks, Smith said.  Ruth Porat, the bank’s chief financial officer, said at an
investor conference on Sept. 13 that the fixed-income trading
environment in the third-quarter was worse than 2010’s fourth
quarter, when Morgan Stanley posted its lowest debt-trading
revenue since the 2008 crisis. The company, led by Chief
Executive Officer James Gorman, 53, reported second-quarter
revenue from both  investment banking  and fixed-income trading
that beat rival Goldman Sachs for the first time on record.  Morgan Stanley had $39 billion of cross-border exposure to
French banks at the end of December before accounting for
offsetting hedges and collateral, according to an annual filing
with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission. Cross-border
outstandings include cash deposits, receivables, loans and
securities, as well as short-term collateralized loans of
securities or cash known as repurchase agreements or reverse
repurchase agreements.  ‘Galloping Wider’  While Morgan Stanley hasn’t updated those figures, Hintz
estimated in a Sept. 23 note to investors that the bank’s total
risk to France and that country’s lenders is less than $2
billion when collateral and hedges are included. Morgan Stanley
currently has zero exposure to France, including French banks,
after hedges and collateral are factored in, according to a
person close to the firm.  As of June 30, Morgan Stanley had about $5 billion of
funded exposure to  Greece , Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and  Spain ,
which was reduced to about $2 billion when offsetting hedges
were accounted for, according to a regulatory filing. The
company also had about $2 billion in overnight deposits in banks
in those countries and about $1.5 billion of unfunded loans to
companies in those countries, the filing shows.  “Their spreads just are galloping wider,” Smith said.
“Is it rational that Morgan Stanley CDS spreads would be wider
than French bank CDS spreads if the concern is exposure to
French banks? I don’t think that makes perfect sense.”  Bond Yield Climbs  Goldman Sachs, which like Morgan Stanley converted from a
securities firm to a bank in 2008, had $38.5 billion of gross
cross-border exposure to French banks as of June 30, according
to a regulatory filing. The firm’s five-year credit-default
swaps traded at 330 basis points as of 4:20 p.m., according to
CMA.  Morgan Stanley’s 10-year debt has also shown signs that
investors are growing concerned. The yield on the company’s $1.5
billion of 5.5 percent senior unsecured notes that comes due in
July 2021 has climbed to 6.57 percent from 5.46 percent on Sept.
15, according to prices reported by Trace, the bond price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  That’s still lower than the 6.76 percent yield on 4.125
percent bonds issued by Intesa Sanpaolo that come due more than
a year earlier, in April 2020, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Very Sensitive’  Morgan Stanley’s reliance on the debt markets, instead of
depositors, to provide funding for its assets may be one cause
of concern, some analysts said. Morgan Stanley and Goldman
Sachs, which were the second-biggest and biggest U.S. securities
firms before converting to banks, both got less than 10 percent
of their funding from depositors as of June 30, according to
company filings with the SEC.  By contrast, Bank of America and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the
two largest U.S. banks by assets, funded more than half of their
balance sheets with retail deposits at the end of June, filings
show.  “The market is just very sensitive to anybody considered
to be wholesale funded,” John Guarnera, a financial analyst at
Societe Generale in New York, said in a Sept. 23 telephone
interview. “If you’re a bank, you can fall back on the fact
that you have a strong retail deposit base. Morgan Stanley has
deposits, but not like you’d see out of a BofA or a JPMorgan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 