-- 
House to Probe How 54.5 MPG Auto Rule Was Written, Issa Says

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-09-30T20:38:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/house-to-probe-how-54-5-mpg-rule-on-autos-was-written-issa-says.html
A U.S. rule that would require
automakers to double fuel economy of cars and light trucks by
2025 was written “in secret, outside the scope of law,”
Representative  Darrell Issa  said in a letter announcing a
congressional investigation.  Issa, a California Republican who is chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said today in a
letter to U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood that the rule
was rushed and may jeopardize safety by forcing automakers to
make lighter-weight vehicles.  “I am concerned about the negative impact these standards
could have on the safety of automobiles, the possibility that
the  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  acted outside
the scope of congressionally delegated authority and the lack of
transparency in the process leading up to the agreement,” Issa
said in the letter. The agency oversees both fuel economy and
safety regulation.  Issa’s panel today announced investigations into the auto
regulator and the Environmental Protection Agency, which wrote
the rule along with NHTSA.  “Safety considerations were central to establishing a
national program to improve fuel economy and reduce greenhouse
gas emissions for passenger cars and light trucks through model
year 2016,”  Olivia Alair , a Transportation Department
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “Likewise, safety continues to
be our top priority as we move toward a proposal for standards
for model year 2017-2025 vehicles.”  Auto Bailouts  Issa also questioned the EPA’s role in writing a previous
fuel-economy rule that takes effect next year, saying it
negotiated with automakers around the same time General Motors
Corp. and Chrysler LLC were getting U.S. bailout money. The
timing “heightens the concern that the administration used the
promise of taxpayer dollars to obtain GM and Chrysler’s support
for the new fuel economy standards” in 2009, Issa said today in
a letter to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson.  “EPA will respond as appropriate and we will continue to
work with all our partners to continue to move forward on this
historic clean-cars initiative,” Alcantara Betsaida, an EPA
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  