-- 
Toyota-Honda Rebound Ignites Call of ‘What Recession?’ in U.S. Sales: Cars

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-09-30T20:06:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/toyota-honda-rebound-ignites-call-of-what-recession-in-u-s-sales-cars.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor
Co.’s return to full production this month is boosting U.S. auto
sales back near the pace reached before Japan’s earthquake.  September light-vehicle sales, to be released Oct. 3,
probably rose to a 12.8 million seasonally adjusted annual rate,
the average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That
would be the fastest pace since April, when lost output caused
by Japan’s tsunami crimped supply of parts and finished cars.  “Recovering inventory levels have helped to bring buyers
back into the market,” said  Jeff Schuster , executive director
of global forecasting at J.D. Power & Associates.  Jesse Toprak , who develops forecasts at TrueCar.com, went
so far as to title his latest report “What Recession?” as the
auto rebound defies  consumer confidence  that is near a two-year
low. Toyota has said it expects to reverse monthly U.S. sales
declines beginning next month, and Honda is adding overtime
shifts at two Ohio plants. Better supply also probably meant
incentives rose from the lowest in almost six years.  “The big story this month was better inventory and
favorable pricing” for consumers, said Jessica Caldwell, an
analyst at  Santa Monica , California-based Edmunds.com.  Sales declines at Toyota and Honda contributed to the U.S.
auto sales pace slowing from a 13.1 million rate averaged in the
year’s first four months to as low as 11.6 million in June,
according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Toyota Still Recovering  Toyota slipped behind  Ford Motor Co. (F)  to third in U.S. sales
this year through August, which was the first month in the past
year that its global production increased. The Toyota City,
Japan-based automaker is still recovering and may say sales
dropped 15 percent, the average estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, leaving it in third again.  “With the launch of the new Camry, October should be even
better,” said Paul Atkinson, who operates Toyota dealerships in
Bryan and Madisonville,  Texas . “We’re selling as fast as
they’re coming off the damn truck.”  Toyota, ramping up production of the redesigned Camry
sedan, may say sales dropped 15 percent, the average estimate of
five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The Toyota City, Japan-
based automaker’s global production increased for the first time
in 12 months in August.  Toyota shares fell 0.5 percent to 2,688 yen in  Tokyo  at the
3 p.m. close of Tokyo trading. Nissan Motor Co. gained 0.4
percent, while Honda fell 1.4 percent.  Overtime at Honda  Sales may decline 6.1 percent at Honda, the average of five
analysts’ estimates, after deliveries slid 20 percent or more in
each of the past four months. The Tokyo-based automaker is
scheduling overtime shifts at its Marysville and East Liberty
assembly plants in Ohio,  Ron Lietzke , a spokesman, said in a
Sept. 28 phone interview.  Honda began the month with 32 days supply of vehicles, from
28 in August, Westlake Village, California-based J.D. Power said
in a Sept. 22  statement . The industry standard is about 60 days.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Ford are anticipating that demand
will keep increasing as the largest U.S. automakers negotiate
labor contracts that boost production and add jobs.  GM, which reached a new four-year contract with the United
Auto Workers this month, may report a 19 percent increase in
September sales, the average of eight analysts’ estimates. The
Detroit-based automaker and union said the accord adds or
retains 6,400 jobs and reopens an assembly plant in Tennessee.  Ford, Chrysler  Ford has discussed with the UAW adding as many as 10,000
union jobs in the U.S., according to three people familiar with
the talks. Some of those workers would assemble Fusion sedans,
which are currently made in  Mexico , said one of the people who
asked not to be identified because the negotiations are private.  Deliveries this month may rise 5.9 percent for Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford, the average of eight analysts’ estimates.  Sales at Fiat SpA-controlled Chrysler Group LLC, which has
extended its UAW contract to Oct. 19, may climb 20 percent, the
average of seven analysts’ estimates.  GM fell 58 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $20.18 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Ford dropped 33
cents, or 3.3 percent, to $9.67.  Confidence among U.S. consumers stagnated in September near
a two-year low as the share of households saying it was
difficult to find a job climbed to the highest level in almost
three decades. The Conference Board’s sentiment index increased
by 0.2 to 45.4 from an August reading that was the lowest since
April 2009, the New York-based researcher said Sept. 27.  Auto Industry Shrinks  “The economy is stopped dead in its tracks,”  George Magliano , a New York-based economist at IHS Automotive, said in
a phone interview. “Considering that, the auto business is
showing pretty good strength. The industry is hiring, it’s
producing more and there’s pent-up demand.”  GM and Ford will be adding back only a portion of the jobs
they shed during the recession that sent auto sales to a 27-year
low of 10.4 million in 2009, according to Autodata Corp.  GM had about 49,000 U.S. hourly employees at the end of
2010, a year after its U.S.-backed bankruptcy. That’s down from
111,000 such workers at the end of 2005, the company  said  in a
Sept. 28 conference call with analysts.  Last year, about 962,000 U.S. workers were employed making
vehicles and parts, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics
in  Washington . That’s down 32 percent from 1.41 million in 2005.  The downsizing of the industry, achieved in part by U.S.-
backed bankruptcies for GM and Chrysler, meant cutting
production capacity. That prevented U.S. automakers from raising
output and offsetting industrywide constraints on inventory
after the  Japan  earthquake and tsunami in March, said Alan Baum,
an industry consultant at Baum & Associates.  ‘Limited Ability’  GM, Ford and Chrysler “had a fairly limited ability to
capitalize because there are a lot fewer auto plants and workers
than there were four years ago,” said Baum, who is based in
West Bloomfield,  Michigan . “You can’t just add a shift willy-
nilly.”  Nissan, whose better supply of parts has buoyed inventory
levels above its Japan-based rivals, may say deliveries climbed
18 percent, the average of five analysts’ estimates.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s largest automaker, and its
affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , may combine to sell 20 percent more
vehicles than a year earlier, according to the average of three
estimates. Both automakers are based in  Seoul .  J.D. Power  today increased its estimate for the September
auto-sales rate to 13 million from 12.9 million.  Industrywide deliveries may rise to 12.7 million cars and
light trucks this year, the average of 18 analysts’ estimates
surveyed by Bloomberg in August. Sales may climb to 13.6 million
in 2012, the average of 15 estimates. The U.S. averaged annual
sales of 16.8 million vehicles from 2000 to 2007, according to
Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based Autodata.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from September 2010. Forecasts for the seasonally
adjusted annual rate, or SAAR, are in millions of light
vehicles.  September had 25 selling days, matching the year-earlier
period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  