-- 
Obama Says Pakistan Has ‘Unsavory’ Contacts to Hedge Bets in Afghanistan

-- B y   P a u l   T i g h e   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-10-07T01:54:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/pakistan-rejects-u-s-charges-of-militant-links.html
President  Barack Obama  criticized
 Pakistan  for ties to “unsavory characters” opposed to American
aims to end the insurgency in Afghanistan.  “They have hedged their bets in terms of what Afghanistan
would look like,” Obama told a news conference at the White
House yesterday. “And part of hedging their bets is having
interactions with some of the unsavory characters who they think
might end up regaining power in Afghanistan after coalition
forces have left.”  The U.S. will constantly evaluate its relationship with
Pakistan on the basis of whether it is “helping to protect
Americans and our interests,” Obama said.  Relations between the U.S. and Pakistan have soured amid
allegations by U.S. officials that the Pakistani government is
aiding guerrilla attacks in  Afghanistan . Pakistan last month
rejected a claim by the retiring chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen, that the Pakistan-based Haqqani
Taliban faction “acts as a veritable arm” of Pakistan’s Inter-
Services Intelligence Directorate.  “There’s no doubt that, you know, we’re not going to feel
comfortable with a long-term strategic relationship with
Pakistan if we don’t think that they’re mindful of our interests
as well,” Obama said, according to a government transcript.
“Pakistan, I think, has been more ambivalent about some of our
goals” in Afghanistan.  Both Sides  Pakistan is playing both sides by going after the Taliban
within its borders in some cases and helping it in others,  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor and a contender in the
race to be the Republican presidential candidate, said on Oct.
4, according to the  Associated Press .  Pakistan has to decide if it’s “with us or with them,” AP
cited Romney as telling voters in  New Hampshire . “If you’re
with them, that will have a very significant consequence. If
you’re with us, that’s a very good thing.” Romney didn’t say
what the consequence may be, AP reported.  Obama acknowledged that the U.S. policy of going after al-
Qaeda operatives in the border region between Pakistan and
Afghanistan “could not have been as successful as we have been
without the cooperation of the Pakistan government.”  There is more work to do getting cooperation between
Afghanistan and Pakistan, he said.  U.S. Envoy  Marc Grossman , the U.S. special envoy for Afghanistan and
Pakistan, is scheduled to visit Pakistan’s capital, Islamabad,
this weekend to meet with Pakistani government officials.  “Job one between the U.S. and Pakistan on the
counterterrorism front is to tackle the Haqqani network,” State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said at a Sept. 30
briefing in Washington announcing his visit. “We’ve got to find
a way to work on this together.”  Pakistan’s Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  hosted
political parties, including Islamic opposition groups, in
Islamabad on Sept. 29 in a show of unity after U.S. charges that
Pakistan-based insurgents struck American targets in Kabul last
month. Lawmakers called on Gilani’s government to renew peace
efforts with militants in Pakistan’s regions bordering
Afghanistan.  President Asif Ali Zardari, writing in the  Washington  Post
last week, said it’s “time for rhetoric to cool and for serious
dialogue between allies to resume.”  Damaging Ties  Terrorists have gained the most from the “recent verbal
assaults some in America have made against Pakistan,” Zardari
wrote in the Washington Post. “This strategy is damaging the
relationship between Pakistan and the  United States  and
compromising common goals in defeating terrorism, extremism and
fanaticism.”  Tension between the U.S. and Pakistan also spiked after the
American raid that killed  Osama bin Laden  in a house north of
Islamabad in May. A Pakistani judicial commission investigating
the U.S. assault recommended yesterday that the government bring
treason charges against a local doctor who allegedly helped the
U.S. Central Intelligence Agency track down the al-Qaeda chief.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said Sept. 15 that the U.S.
won’t allow further strikes on its forces by the Haqqani group,
which is based largely in Pakistan’s border district of North
Waziristan. Some congressional leaders have urged tougher
policies, with Republican Senate Armed Services Committee member
 Lindsey Graham  saying the U.S. may have to consider a military
response.  Afghan Policy  The Afghan government said on Sept. 30 said it may suspend
its efforts to work with Pakistan on a process to end the war in
Afghanistan because no progress has been made.  Afghanistan may work more closely with the U.S.,  Europe  and
 India  instead of trying to negotiate with Taliban groups based
in Pakistan, President Hamid Karzai said in a statement.  Pakistan sees its security interests threatened by an
independent Afghanistan, in part because they think it will ally
itself to India, Obama said.  “Part of what we want to do is actually get Pakistan to
realize that a peaceful approach toward India would be in
everybody’s interests and would help Pakistan actually
develop,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  