-- 
Panamericano Posts Third Quarterly Advance on BTG Purchase

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-09-30T20:20:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/panamericano-posts-third-quarterly-advance-on-btg-purchase-1-.html
Banco Panamericano SA, a Brazilian
lender that was bailed out amid accounting losses, posted its
third straight quarterly advance on speculation its new parent,
Banco BTG Pactual SA, will boost profits.  Panamericano, which took two bailouts between November and
January after auditors found that the bank’s computer system
automatically booked revenue from loans it had already sold,
rose 3.9 percent in Sao Paulo to 6.16 reais at 4:15 p.m. New
York time and is up 2.2 percent since June 30. The benchmark
Bovespa index slid 2 percent and is down 16 percent in the
quarter.  BTG Pactual agreed to buy a controlling stake in
Panamericano in January, assuming 3.8 billion reais ($2.03
billion) of its obligations amid a criminal probe into the
accounting irregularities. Investors are now speculating that
BTG Pactual, founded by billionaire  Andre Esteves , will make the
bank profitable again, said Marco Aurelio Barbosa, head analyst
at Coinvalores. The stock has rallied 52 percent this year after
losing 52 percent in the last three months of 2010.  “The new administration isn’t part of the problem; it’s
part of the solution,” said Barbosa, whose Sao Paulo-based firm
raised its rating on Panamericano to “buy” from “hold” last
month. “The bank is moving in the right direction.”  Panamericano posted a loss of 25.5 million reais in the
second quarter, from a profit of 76.1 million reais in the first
quarter, according to an Aug. 10 regulatory filing.  “It won’t be in the short term that the results reflect
the profound restructuring taking place,” Marco Saravalle, an
analyst at Coinvalores, wrote in the Aug. 26 report upgrading
the stock. BTG Pactual is “renowned for its competitive
aggressiveness and the quality of its team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  