-- 
Pantaloon Declines After Saying Board to Discuss Fund Raising

-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-09-30T11:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/pantaloon-declines-after-saying-board-to-discuss-fund-raising.html
Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF) ,
 India ’s largest listed store owner, fell to its lowest level in
more than two years in Mumbai trading after the company said
yesterday its board will meet to discuss raising funds.  The retailer fell 4.1 percent to 197.50 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close in Mumbai, the lowest since April 2009. The benchmark
BSE India Sensitive index declined 1.5 percent.  Pantaloon’s board will consider options including a rights
offer, preferential stock or sale of shares to select large
investors in a meeting Oct. 3, it said in a statement yesterday
after close of trading. Some investors may be concerned about an
earnings dilution, according to Jagannadham Thunuguntla, chief
strategist at New Delhi-based SMC Wealth Management Services.  “There may be dilution fears, depending on the terms and
conditions of the funding,” said Thunuguntla.  The stock completed its biggest monthly loss in more than a
decade on concern slowing economic growth, an inflation rate
that has remained above the central bank’s comfort zone and
higher  interest rates  will damp consumer demand. Pantaloon
shares dropped 33 percent this month, the most since March 2001.  “Retail same-store sales are slowing” for all chain
operators, said Hemant B. Patel, an analyst at Enam Securities
Pvt. in Mumbai. Pantaloon’s “inventory position, which has been
increasing over the last four quarters, needs to get under
control.”  Pantaloon’s founder  Kishore Biyani  said on Sept. 21 the
company plans to open as many as 30 Big Bazaar supermarkets
annually and add 9 million square feet of retail space in the
next four years. The Mumbai-based company sells apparel, food,
electronics and home furnishings through more than 1,000 stores
in India, according to the company’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net . 