-- 
Philips Declines as HSBC Cuts Estimates on ‘Many Challenges’

-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-09-30T15:15:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/philips-declines-as-hsbc-reduces-earnings-estimate-by-20-over-two-years.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV
dropped the most in six weeks in Amsterdam trading after  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  cut its earnings and stock-price estimates, citing
“many” challenges for the Dutch household-appliance maker.  Philips fell as much as 97 cents, or 6.8 percent, to 13.16
euros, the biggest intraday drop since Aug. 18, and was down 4.7
percent as of 4:48 p.m. The stock has declined 41 percent this
year, valuing the Amsterdam-based company at about 13.6 billion
euros ($18.2 billion).  With more competitors in consumer electronics and lighting
products, and with seemingly entrenched price erosion even in
the less fragmented health-care business, the odds against
Philips seem ’’overwhelming,’’ Colin Gibson, a London-based
analyst, wrote in a research report today.  His sum-of-parts valuation of the stock is 12.50 euros,
“suggesting we have not yet reached fundamental valuation
‘bedrock,’’ Gibson wrote. He cut his earnings-per share
estimates by about 30 percent for 2012 and by 19 percent for
2013. The stock-price estimate was reduced to 15 euros from 16
euros.  Restoring Confidence  Philips Chief Executive Officer Frans  van Houten  is seeking
to restore investor confidence by deepening cost cuts to
streamline the portfolio. The manufacturer, which is targeting
savings of 800 million euros, has pulled out of television
production, and is reviewing management layers and staffing as
Van Houten tackles the company’s complexity.  HSBC predicts Philips will earn revenue of 22.5 billion
euros this year and report a net loss of 330 million euros. The
mean estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is for sales of
22.5 billion euros and a loss of about 471 million euros.  In lighting, where Philips is global market leader, the
company will ‘‘find it difficult to pass price pressure up the
supply chain as it owns its own supply chain in this business,’’
Gibson wrote.  The company’s presence in consumer markets makes it ‘‘more
exposed to government austerity measures and to their impact on
short-term growth in key European markets,’’ the analyst said. A
risk of further health-care reimbursement cuts by governments
and price erosion in the imaging equipment business could also
weigh on results, HSBC said.  Philips has a target of increasing earnings before
interest, taxes and amortization to 10 percent to 12 percent of
revenue by 2013, on sales growth of 4 percent to 6 percent.  ‘‘As a result of our efforts and despite economic
challenges, we are confident that we can deliver our 2013
financial targets,’’ Van Houten said on Sept. 13. The company is
aiming for an Ebita margin of 15 percent to 17 percent for its
health-care subsidiary, while the goal for the lighting and
consumer-lifestyle divisions is 8 percent to 10 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  