-- 
Polish Central Bank Supports Zloty for Second Time in Week

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-30T14:50:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/polish-central-bank-supports-zloty-for-second-time-in-week-1-.html
Poland ’s central bank sold foreign
currencies on the market for a second time in a week to curb the
zloty’s steepest quarterly loss in 2 1/2 years.  The zloty appreciated as much as 0.7 percent to 4.3986 per
euro and traded 0.1 percent up at 4.4238 as of 4:16 p.m. in
Warsaw. Narodowy Bank Polski sold “a certain amount” of
foreign currencies for the zloty in the afternoon, it said in an
e-mailed statement. It earlier asked commercial lenders for
prices to sell euros and dollars, said three traders at Warsaw-
based banks, who declined to be named because the information
isn’t public.  Poland’s central bank sold foreign currencies on the market
on Sept. 23, stepping in to bolster the zloty for the first time
in at least a decade after it slid to an almost 27-month low
versus the euro. State-owned Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego
separately sold euro and dollars to bank and bought  government
bonds  the same day, said two traders involved in the
transactions. BGK was also converting foreign currencies on the
market yesterday, according to three traders.  “It appears we’ve been underestimating the scope of the
change in the NBP foreign currency policy,”  Mateusz Szczurek ,
chief economist at ING Bank Slaski SA wrote in an e-mailed note
to clients. “The central bank starts to look like a more
permanent feature in the zloty market.”  Stemming Selloffs  Policy makers from  Turkey  to  Brazil  are seeking to stem
selloffs in their currencies sparked by speculation the global
economic deceleration will curb exports from  developing
countries . Turkey’s central bank this week sold the biggest
amount of dollars since Aug. 5 to shore up the lira after it
fell to a record low.  The central bank sold 10 million euros ($13 million) to a
Warsaw-based lender, a trader involved in the transactions said.
A trader at another commercial lender in Warsaw said he bought a
total of 20 million euros from the bank. Both spoke under
condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to
discuss transactions with clients.  The zloty lost 10 percent against the euro this quarter and
is poised for the steepest loss since the first three months of
2009. It lost the most among more than 170 global currencies
tracked by Bloomberg on concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will
slow economic growth.  Governor  Marek Belka  warned on Sept. 22 that the zloty is
getting out of sync with Poland’s “healthy fundamentals,”
making it harder for policy makers to control inflation,
according to his comments posted on the central bank’s website.  Joint action by the central bank and BGK sent an
“important signal” to investors and has stopped speculation
against the zloty, Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski said in an
interview on Radio RMF FM on Sept. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  