-- 
Putin’s Second Coming Is No Gift to Russia or Investors: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-30T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/putin-s-second-coming-is-no-gift-to-russia-s-workers-or-investors-view.html
When  Vladimir Putin  first came to
power nearly 12 years ago, the most optimistic -- if tortured --
argument in his favor was that he would become a Russian version
of  Chile ’s  Augusto Pinochet , bringing economic renewal in return
for a firm grip on power.  As Putin embarks on another 12 years of ruling Russia, that
hopeful argument is more tortured than ever. Russia’s future
looks less like that of Chile, and more like that of Egypt or
Tunisia.  By stepping aside to make way for Putin, President  Dmitry Medvedev  finally dispensed with the pretense that the two
leaders were somehow competing for the hearts and minds of
Russians. Much like the  Soviet Union  before it, the country is
ruled by a monolithic elite that is increasingly devoted to
sustaining its own power.  To some extent, the ruling elite -- aided by high  oil
prices  -- has delivered prosperity. Over the past decade, the
Micex index of Russian stocks has gained more than 700 percent.
The size of the economy has doubled as viewed through purchasing
power, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Too much of the wealth, though, has accrued to corrupt
officials, and too little to people who actually work for a
living. Russian entrepreneurs face crushing bribery and kickback
costs. In state-controlled companies, money disappears literally
by the billions. In Transparency International’s most recent
corruption perceptions  index ,  Russia  ranks worse than  Libya . No
wonder 53 percent of Russian entrepreneurs, according to a poll
published in the newspaper  Novaya Gazeta , say they want to leave
the country for good.  Pursuit of Power  Now, the pursuit of power is trumping even the prudent
management of Russia’s economy. Putin’s decision to back
Medvedev in a spat with Alexei Kudrin, the long-serving and
well-respected finance minister who resigned this week, is
merely a symptom of a deep and widespread illness. The ever-
increasing spending required to support the Putin regime’s
popularity is becoming less and less sustainable for a
government that depends on the oil and gas sectors for nearly
half its revenue.  Thanks to added expenditures on defense, state-worker pay
and pensions, Russia will require an oil price of about $105 a
barrel to balance its 2012 budget, up from only $55 back in
2007, Russian brokerage Troika-Dialog estimates. Meanwhile, a
 reserve fund  Russia created to cushion the budget in lean times
contains only about $27 billion, down from roughly $140 billion
in late 2008. That’s not enough to last even six months in a
serious crisis.  Institutions Needed  As long as the current regime rolls on, the institutions
needed to address the country’s problems, and to promote
genuine, sustainable economic growth, have little chance of
taking root. Courts cannot make impartial decisions, because the
elite’s power depends in part on its ability to influence them.
Investors cannot have reliable and predictable rules, because
the elite must reserve the right to break them if necessary.  If and when Russians get fed up, they will run straight
into the biggest institutional flaw of all: the lack of a
mechanism for the peaceful transfer of power. Not since  Boris
Yeltsin  anointed Putin on New Year’s Eve in 1999 has the country
had a truly free and fair election. As a result, it’s hard to
imagine how the Putin regime can end in anything other than
messy, and perhaps violent, instability.  Judging from the performance of the Russian stock market,
which has risen about 6 percent so far this week, investors see
Putin’s return to the presidency as a comforting continuation of
the status quo. Ultimately, the status quo is precisely what
they should fear.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 