-- 
QRxPharma in Talks With Potential Partners to Sell Pain Drug

-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 
2011-09-30T07:42:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/qrxpharma-in-talks-with-potential-partners-to-market-painkiller.html
QRxPharma Ltd. (QRX) , the Australian
drugmaker seeking U.S. approval for a new pain treatment, is in
talks with other companies to help market the medicine, Chief
Executive Officer John Holaday said.  An agreement may be reached by December to share the cost
of marketing the MoxDuo IR pill and speed its availability,
Holaday said in an interview in  Hong Kong  yesterday. The Sydney-
based company sought Food and Drug Administration approval for
the opioid therapy in July and wants to begin sales next year.  “We’ve got more than one partner that we’re in discussions
with” to help sell MoxDuo IR in the U.S. and  Europe , Holaday
said. “They’ve plowed through all our data.”  The medicine combines morphine and oxycodone. QRxPharma is
also developing an intravenous version, betting fewer side
effects, such as vomiting, nausea and constipation, will make
the medications preferable to existing treatments for moderate
to severe pain -- a $2.5 billion segment of the $8 billion U.S.
market for prescription opioids.  “Given the advantages of MoxDuo, we expect a strong
commercial reception for the products from 2012 onwards,” said
 Stuart Roberts , an analyst with Bell Potter Securities Ltd. in
Melbourne, in a Sept. 27 note to clients. Roberts estimates the
worldwide market for opioid drugs at $12 billion.  QRxPharma increased 0.9 percent to A$1.18 at the 4:10 p.m.
close in Sydney. The shares have declined 41 percent since they
began trading on the Australian stock exchange in May 2007.  The injectable version of MoxDuo is in the second of three
stages of patient studies that regulators usually require to
approve a new drug.  QRxPharma has distribution partnerships with  Sigma
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (SIP)  in Australia and  China  Aoxing
Pharmaceuticals in China, Holaday said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  