-- 
Red Sox Had High Probability of Wild-Card Berth, Even in Ninth Inning

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-09-30T04:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/red-sox-had-high-probability-of-wild-card-berth-even-in-ninth-inning.html
The Boston  Red Sox  were virtually
assured of a place in baseball’s American League Division Series
in early September. No team had given up a nine-game lead in the
wild-card race.  Even after blowing their advantage over the  Tampa Bay Rays ,
the Red Sox still had an 89 percent probability of reaching the
playoffs going into the ninth inning of the final game of the
regular season against the  Baltimore Orioles , according to
baseball statistics and analysis website  FanGraphs.com .  In less than 10 minutes, Boston’s odds fell to 19 percent
as closer  Jonathan Papelbon , needing one strike for the win,
surrendered two runs with two outs to give the 4-3 victory to
the Orioles, who were 22 games behind  Boston  and  Tampa Bay  in
the wild-card race. Minutes later, Tampa Bay beat the New York
Yankees 8-7 in extra innings to claim the wild-card berth.  “A lot of things had to go wrong for us to blow the lead,
and they did,” Red Sox General Manager Theo Epstein told
reporters yesterday. “But I don’t think they were completely
unforeseen. The bottom line is we didn’t find a way to stop the
slide.”  The Red Sox were nine games ahead of the Rays on Sept. 4
before going 7-20 in September, their worst performance in the
month since 1952.  “A very quiet day in Boston after a terrible, terrible
month for the fans,” Red Sox owner  John Henry  wrote on Twitter
after the team’s collapse.  Record Collapse  By relinquishing their lead over the Rays, the Red Sox set
a Major League Baseball record, according to the Elias Sports
Bureau. The biggest lead previously lost in September was by the
1995 Angels, who saw a 7 1/2-game lead over the  Seattle Mariners 
disappear.  “We’ll be dissecting that forever,” Epstein said.  The Red Sox lost their first six games of the season, their
worst start since 1945. They recovered to trade the lead of the
AL East with the Yankees before the late-season collapse.  The club has until Oct. 8 to decide if it’s going to
exercise options on manager Terry Francona’s contract for 2012
and 2013 or pay him a $750,000 buyout on each option.  In eight seasons with the Red Sox, Francona has reached the
postseason five times and has an 8-0 record in  World Series  wins
in 2004 and 2007. Overall, he has a 744-552 record with Boston.  The 52-year-old manager said yesterday that the team wasn’t
acting as a unit.  “Normally as a season progresses there’s events that make
you care about each other,” he said. “With this team, it
didn’t happen as much as I wanted it to. I was frustrated about
that.”  Francona said he didn’t expect the players to socialize
necessarily.  “But you need a team that wants to protect each other on
the field and be fiercely loyal to each other,” he said.  Boston captain Jason Varitek said Francona wasn’t to blame
for the collapse.  “We as players didn’t get our job done,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  