-- 
Renaissance Learning’s Deal Math Means Investors Lose 41% Payoff: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-09-30T01:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/renaissance-learning-s-deal-math-means-investors-lose-41-payoff-real-m-a.html
Renaissance Learning Inc. (RLRN) ’s
founders are passing up a 41 percent payout to shareholders for
a takeover offer that values the educational software maker at a
discount to its current value.  The company, 69 percent owned by the Paul family and its
relatives, agreed on Sept. 27 to sell itself to private equity
firm Permira Advisers LLP in a takeover that gives minority
holders $16.60 a share in cash. A day later, it rejected an all-
cash proposal for $18 a share from Plato Learning Inc. in what
would be the industry’s second-richest deal in more than a
decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Renaissance Learning has attracted competing offers
after generating more free cash than any education software
provider versus their share prices, the board is recommending a
lower-priced agreement because the founders said they wouldn’t
vote for Plato’s bid. Based on the costs that Plato can wring
out from buying Renaissance Learning, GFI Group Inc. says Plato
could afford as much as $21.50 a share in an acquisition, or 27
percent more than its price of $16.97 yesterday.  “Minority shareholders are getting less than they could
because the Pauls refuse to take the higher offer,” Alfredo Scialabba, a special situations analyst at GFI Group in  New
York , said in a telephone interview. “Plato is also offering
cash and, as far as I know, one dollar is as green as another.”  Jeff Walker, a spokesman for Wisconsin Rapids, Wisconsin-
based Renaissance Learning, declined to comment on the Paul
family’s decision to opt for the lower bid or whether it would
ask Permira to match Plato’s offer.  Acquisition Detail  Renaissance Learning will provide shareholders with more
information in the next several days, he said.  Chris Davidson, a spokesman at Permira, declined to comment
on whether it would raise its offer. Mary Schneider, a
spokeswoman for Bloomington, Minnesota-based Plato, didn’t
respond to a telephone message or e-mail requesting comment.  Founded in 1986 by Terrance and Judith Paul, Renaissance
Learning sells educational software to more than 70,000 schools.
The software helps instruct students from kindergarten through
high school and tests their reading and math skills.  Shares of the company, which reached a high of $53.41 in
2001, were little changed this year and closed at $11.83 before
Renaissance Learning said on Aug. 16 that Permira agreed to buy
the company. Under the original terms, the London-based buyout
firm would pay all holders $14.85 in cash for each share owned.  A week later, Renaissance Learning said it had received an
unsolicited bid for $15.50 a share from Plato.  Moving the Needle  Permira then boosted its offer to $15 a share for the
founding family and its affiliates, while offering minority
holders $16.60 each, according to a Sept. 27 statement.
Renaissance Learning said the next day that it had also rejected
a revised bid from Plato that would pay $15.10 a share to the
Paul family and $18 apiece to all other investors.  “Clearly for the people who control the vote, a dime ain’t
going to move the needle,”  Louis Meyer , a special situations
analyst for Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “This was driven by the board turning it
down not because they didn’t like the price of the deal, but
because the Pauls said they weren’t going to vote for it.”  While the founding family is willing to take a discount for
the shares they control to sell the company to its preferred
bidder, passing up the Plato bid would deprive minority holders
of one of the richest deals in the industry.  Plato’s $18-a-share offer values Renaissance Learning at
13.4 times its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  That’s the highest valuation for an educational software
deal greater than $100 million since 1995, except for  Providence
Equity Partners ’ buyout of Blackboard Inc. announced July 1. The
proposal from Plato represents a 41 percent premium to the
stock’s 20-day average prior to Permira’s bid on Aug. 16.  The bidder that is successful in acquiring Renaissance
Learning will get a company that has a free  cash flow  yield of
6.4 percent, higher than any educational  software company  with a
market value of more than $250 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Renaissance Learning is a “cheap asset with a lot of cash
flow,” said GFI’s Scialabba. “That’s very appealing to firms
that want to establish a platform in this space and other
private equity players planning to roll out that strategy.”  Renaissance Learning, which boosted revenue for the last
three years, still has room to grow by expanding their product
offerings with existing customers and adding more schools to
their subscriber base, according to Jerry Herman, a Cleveland-
based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  Cost Savings  GFI’s Scialabba said Plato can save about $100 million from
combining with Renaissance Learning by cutting overlapping costs
and eliminating workers. The Permira deal wouldn’t lead to
“major layoffs,” the company said in an employee presentation.  With the cost cuts, Plato, owned by private equity firm
Thoma Bravo LLC, would be able to raise its bid by $3.50 a share
for Renaissance Learning’s minority shareholders and still offer
$15.50 each to the founders, he said.  “Shareholders are probably going to put pressure on the
company and the board to explain why they didn’t take the higher
bid,” said Meyer at Oscar Gruss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 