-- 
Alipay’s Transfer Sowed Doubt in China Internet Companies, Renren CEO Says

-- B y   E m i l y   C h a n g   a n d   X u   W a n g
-- 
2011-09-30T23:12:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/renren-s-chen-says-ma-alipay-spin-shook-confidence-in-chinese-companies.html
Renren Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Joe Chen criticized Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Chairman Jack Ma
over the decision to spin off the company’s payment business
without the knowledge of key shareholders, including Yahoo! Inc.  Chen, speaking in an interview with “Bloomberg West,”
referred to the spinoff of Alipay to a company owned by Ma.  The transfer caused concern that Alibaba would become less
valuable to Yahoo and other owners. While Yahoo and Alibaba
later reached an agreement aimed at compensating Alibaba’s
owners for the loss, the incident undermined confidence in
Chinese Internet companies, Chen said.  “It’s quite unfortunate,” Chen said. “It caused a lot of
uncertainty about Chinese Internet companies.”  Renren, which completed an $855 million initial share sale
this year, will probably get most of its revenue from e-commerce
in three to five years, Chen also said in the interview.
Advertising currently makes up most of Renren’s sales, he said.
The company has 130 million users and is adding 2 million to 3
million active users a month, Chen said in the interview.  The company’s “core audience” includes college students and
high school students bound for college, as well as “young,
white-collar professionals living in big cities,” Chen said.  “Their time is very valuable, so they’re looking for highly
efficient communication platform,” Chen said. “They don’t have a
lot of time to play games, but are more interested in getting
the biggest bang for the buck to save money.”  Users Want E-Commerce  “E-commerce is the best way to monetize,” under those
circumstances, he said.  Yahoo’s former CEO  Carol Bartz  was ousted Sept. 6 in part
over her handling of assets in  Asia , including the stake in
Alibaba. She feuded publicly with Alibaba’s Ma.  Beijing-based Renren agreed Sept. 27 to buy online video
operator 56.com for $80 million in cash. Renren’s bigger Chinese
Internet rivals including Baidu Inc. and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) 
have stepped up acquisitions to expand in  China , the world’s
biggest online market by users.  Renren is bolstering its social-networking service, which
is similar to Facebook Inc.’s, by offering online videos and
daily deals, as competition with Tencent and Sina Corp.
intensifies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emily Chang in  San Francisco  at 
 echang68@bloomberg.net ;
Xu Wang in  New York  at 
 xwang206@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at  