-- 
Requiem for a Governor Before He’s in the Ring: Michael Kinsley

-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 
2011-09-30T00:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/requiem-for-a-governor-before-he-s-in-the-ring-michael-kinsley.html
Look, I’m sorry, but  New Jersey 
Governor Chris Christie cannot be president: He is just too fat.
Maybe, if he runs for president and we get to know him, we will
overlook this awkward issue because we are so impressed with the
way he stands up to teachers’ unions. But we shouldn’t overlook
it -- unless he goes on a diet and shows he can stick to it.  That’s not a very liberal attitude. It’s discriminatory.
It’s patronizing. It’s coercive. What business is it of ours
whether Christie weighs too much (and who gets to define “too
much”)? Why should we even care, as long as we like his
policies? These points will all be made by political
commentators if word goes out to the vast right-wing conspiracy
that it’s time to get behind Christie.  Let me save you the trouble, boys and girls. I can write
that column myself: “Liberals, who embrace diversity of all
other kinds -- who demand quotas for transgender kindergarten
teachers in public schools -- these selfsame liberals have the
unmitigated gall to encourage discrimination against a truly
oppressed group: people of weight.”  There is a theory, of course, that being fat would benefit
Christie by authenticating his portrayal of Everyman -- just a
regular fella, like so many others, who’s sick to death of
 Washington  and its taxing ways. Being overweight establishes
Christie’s bona fides as a populist, and as someone indifferent
to the superficial trends that sweep through Cambridge or  West
Hollywood . Mitt Romney’s excruciating attempts to be a regular
guy can only help Christie establish himself as the no-baloney
candidate (as can, oddly, eating bologna).  A Vast Army  It isn’t yet the case that every American voter is obese,
but we’re making remarkable progress on that front. Many of us
are in bad shape in ways that threaten our health. There is a
vast army of the overweight ready to fight for a fellow sufferer
if given a chance. Nebraska Senator Roman Hruska once famously
asked why mediocre people didn’t deserve representation on the
 Supreme Court . Why don’t fat people deserve a president every
now and then? There hasn’t been a truly fat one since William Howard Taft left office in 1913.  That’s the theory. I don’t buy it. Too many Americans may
be heavy, but they don’t define themselves by that condition (at
least not in a positive way) or automatically bond with fellow
overeaters. Republicans insist that raising taxes on the rich is
bad politics because most Americans hope to be rich eventually.
Most overweight people hope to be thin eventually. So appealing
to them in this way may not work.  Actually, claiming that being seriously overweight
establishes some kind of bond with ordinary folks is a bit of an
insult to ordinary folks, most of whom are not obese. You’re on
firmer ground claiming a bond with all humanity on the basis
that the flesh is weak. On approximately this basis, we (at
least I) have forgiven President Barack Obama his secret smoking
(oh, of course he does) and some people (including me again, I
guess) have forgiven President  Bill Clinton  his ... well, you
know. So why should Christie’s weight be more than we can bear
in a president? Why should it even be a legitimate issue if he
runs?  One reason is that a presidential candidate should be
judged on behavior and character, not just on policies --
especially because the chance these days of any actual policies
being enacted is slim. (Most of us, fortunately, aren’t judged
this way -- at least not in this life. But presidents are.)  President’s Example  Controlling what you eat and how much is not easy, and it’s
harder for some people than for others. But it’s not as
difficult as curing a chemical addiction. With a determined,
disciplined effort, Christie could thin down, and he should --
because the obesity epidemic is real and dangerous. And the
president inevitably sets an example.  Unfortunately, the symbolism of Christie’s weight problem
goes way past the issue of obesity itself. It is just a too-
perfect symbol of our country at the moment, with appetites out
of control and discipline near zilch. And it’s not just
symbolism. We don’t yet know much about  Chris Christie . He
certainly makes all the right noises about fiscal discipline and
seems to have done well so far as governor of New Jersey.
Perhaps Christie is the one to help us get our national
appetites under control. But it would help if he got his own
under control first.  (Michael Kinsley is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 