-- 
Robo-Truant Tech and Other Apps to Fix Education: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-09-30T00:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/robo-truant-tech-and-other-apps-to-fix-education-jonathan-alter.html
The education reform movement is at
an important juncture. It will either peter out in platitudes or
advance based on a new consensus. At this week’s  Education
Nation  conference in  New York City , I came away with some hope
for the latter. My cautious optimism is rooted in two Ts --
technology and transparency.  In the pitched battles between reformers and
traditionalists, I’ve been passionately on the side of the
reformers for almost 20 years. With the help of the last four
presidents, they’ve made progress against the education
establishment in pushing for accountability, common standards,
charter schools, merit pay and rigorous teacher evaluation.  But traditionalists in the unions and the business-as-usual
bureaucracy have recently been successful in depicting reformers
as teacher-bashers (not guilty) and as overreliant on test
scores in reading and math at the expense of other subjects
(guilty).  Even if they cordially despise each other, reformers and
traditionalists will now have to work together to implement the
new accountability laws enacted in the past few years in about a
dozen states.  One way to do so is by embracing smart new technology.  For years, faddish tech fixes like computers in the
classroom have yielded few results. But that could be changing.
One of the most intriguing parts of Education Nation was the
Innovation Challenge, a contest with shades of  Donald Trump ’s
show, “The Apprentice.” Three young innovators presented their
ideas on stage to a panel of judges moderated by Tom Brokaw:  Classdojo.com  uses a competitive point system (always
popular with students) to enable teachers to better handle the
behavioral problems that so often impede learning. The idea is
to build character by rewarding teams of students who work
together to stay on task and avoid disruptions. Technology can’t
substitute for a teacher’s class-management skills. But with as
much as half of class time consumed by dealing with disruptive
kids, it can help.  Kickboardforteachers.com  creates a dashboard that helps
teachers and administrators customize instruction for students
who learn at different paces. It could offer teachers the
ability to control more variables and deliver a more
sophisticated classroom experience. This kind of “blended
learning” was a theme of the conference. A related application,
 Edmodo.com , is already being used by 3 million teachers and
students. It’s a Facebook-like tool, controlled by teachers,
that streams homework assignments, distance-learning videos and
other material to extend the classroom online.  Arguably the most practical if least transformational idea
is  Truanttoday.com . Founded by a brilliant 16-year-old named Zak
Kukoff, this digital attendance book automatically contacts
parents when their kids miss class. In the 200 schools now using
Truanttoday, 50 percent of the students who ditch show up to
class that day after their parents are alerted. As Brokaw
quipped, we’ll all be working for Zak some day.  Classdojo won the $75,000 prize. Even if this and other
2011 innovations flop, we’re edging closer to the era when
technology finally changes what is essentially a 19th-century
system of education. In science, paradigm shifts follow
technological breakthroughs. Education won’t be any different.  My sense is that the most potent tool will be the new
transparency offered by the Web. The conference featured a lot
of talk about “scalability” and “replication,” but that’s only
possible with more information about which schools and teachers
are successful and why.  The challenge is to break down what works so that at least
some of the best practices can be more widely adopted. Like many
others at the conference, former President  Bill Clinton  was
focused on why two schools with identical poverty levels so
often get entirely different results out of their students. “If
every problem has been solved by someone somewhere, why are we
so lousy at copying those ideas?” he asked.  A solution may be on the way. This month -- too late to be
included in Education Nation -- the  University of Chicago
Consortium on School Research  unveiled a sophisticated tool for
learning which of Chicago’s public schools are working. Finally,
someone is bottling the formulas for success.  To the dismay of principals, parents in Chicago can put
their address or zip code into a  website  and see how their kid’s
school stacks up on what the consortium calls the five
essentials: a sound vision shared by the principal and teachers;
collaboration among teachers who constantly critique each
other’s instruction; a school’s ties with families and
community; a safe learning climate; and classes that are
demanding and engaging.  The university’s research (which goes much deeper than
these rubrics) shows that improvement in even three of the five
areas makes a school 10 times more likely to improve student
learning.  These ratings, reminiscent of U.S. News and World Report’s
college rankings (though much more substantive), are assembled
through surveys of teachers and students. The  Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation  spent millions learning how to evaluate
teachers and schools, only to find that brutally honest student
evaluations correlate best with actual performance.  Timothy Knowles, a well-regarded education reformer who
runs the  Chicago  program and worked on Mayor  Rahm Emanuel ’s
transition, told me, “Rahm wanted to engage parents more and be
transparent and I said, ‘Here’s a way to do both.’” Knowles will
take his scorecard to Minneapolis-St. Paul this year and with
any luck it will spread quickly to the rest of the country.
Already, thousands of Chicago parents are checking out their
schools, though results are incomplete because the survey was
voluntary the first year. Emanuel is making participation
mandatory in 2012.  Knowles angered the Chicago Teachers Union last year by
opposing tenure, but now the union supports his five essentials
scorecard. Maybe next year at Education Nation we’ll see
reformers and traditionalists join together to explain how
levers like this will help us scale up, replicate and change
American education for good.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 