-- 
Rogen Uses Pal’s Cancer as Pickup Line; Stormy Nightmares: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-30T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/rogen-uses-pal-s-cancer-as-pickup-line-stormy-nightmares-film.html
When a young public-radio producer
learns he has a malignant tumor on his spine in “ 50/50 ,” his
best friend tries to use the disease as a babe magnet.  Based on screenwriter Will Reiser’s own experience with
cancer and his friendship with co-star  Seth Rogen , the film
neatly treads the fine line between comedy and tragedy. Whenever
emotions sway in one direction, Reiser and director Jonathan
Levine quickly reverse course and keep things balanced.  Joseph Gordon-Levitt gives a touching performance as Adam,
a nail-biting, 27-year-old from  Seattle  whose illness aggravates
his relationships with his self-centered girlfriend (Bryce Dallas Howard), his overprotective mother (Angelica Huston) and
the inexperienced therapist (Anna Kendrick) handling his case.  Rogen, who has made a career of wise-cracking slacker
characters, tones down his usual shtick as Adam’s buddy and
colleague Kyle. He provides crude comic relief, but also proves
caring and supportive.  Along with cancer jokes about  Lance Armstrong , there are
moments of genuine emotion.  Facing life-threatening surgery, Adam calls his therapist
and bemoans all the things he’s never done. Later, when Kyle
drops Adam off at the hospital for his operation, their bond is
expressed with almost no dialogue.  “50/50” refers to Adam’s chances of survival. The odds
are better that you’ll appreciate this film.  “50/50,” from Summit Entertainment, opens today across
the U.S. Rating: ***  ‘Take Shelter’  Dark clouds hover over “ Take Shelter ,” an ingeniously
frightening film about an Ohio man plagued by nightmares of an
apocalyptic storm.  Curtis (Michael Shannon), a sand-mining company worker with
a 6-year-old deaf daughter (Tova Stewart), isn’t sure if he’s
seeing the future or suffering from paranoid schizophrenia like
his mother (Kathy Baker).  His wife, Samantha (Jessica Chastain), leans toward the
latter after he borrows money to expand their backyard tornado
shelter instead of focusing on their daughter’s upcoming
cochlear implant surgery.  Writer/director Jeff Nichols does a brilliant job of slowly
building tension as Curtis grows more and more obsessed with his
stormy visions. In one scary scene, he stands in a field during
a thunderstorm as an oily rain pours down; in another he
imagines a stranger snatching his daughter.  As the nightmares continue, he gives away the family dog,
buys gas masks and delivers a raving speech at a local Lions
Club dinner.  We’re never quite sure if Curtis is a madman or a prophet.
The last scene, on a South Carolina beach, may frustrate those
looking for a clear answer.  “Take Shelter,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , opens today
in  New York  and  Los Angeles . Rating: ***1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 