-- 
Rousseff Says Brazil Can’t Miss Opportunity to Cut Rates as Crisis Deepens

-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-09-30T19:52:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/rousseff-says-brazil-can-t-miss-opportunity-to-cut-rates-as-crisis-deepens.html
Brazil  can’t let pass the
opportunity afforded by the global financial crisis to lower
 interest rates , President  Dilma Rousseff  said today in her
strongest call yet for the central bank to continue cutting
borrowing costs.  Rousseff, at an event in  Sao Paulo , said it’s
“inadmissible” for policy makers not to take into account the
possibility of a recession and even a depression in the global
economy. Government efforts to contain spending are creating
space for the central bank to begin a “cautious” and
“responsible” cycle of rate cuts, she said.  “As the financial crisis gets worse, this time we’ll take
advantage of it,” Rousseff said to an applauding audience of
business leaders. “We hope, and we can, initiate a cycle of
reductions in the benchmark rate.”  Yields on interest rate futures plunged following
Rousseff’s remarks, with the contract due January 2012 falling 7
basis points to 11.11 percent at 3:35 p.m. New York time. The
real weakened 2.2 percent to 1.8816 per  U.S. dollar .  Unlike in the wake of the September 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., when Brazil waited four months to begin
cutting interest rates, policy makers last month preemptively 
reduced the key rate even as inflation climbed to a six-year high.  “Brazil this time can’t misjudge what’s going to happen
here as a consequence of what’s happening abroad,” Rousseff
said today.  Surprise Rate Cut  The surprise decision Aug. 31 to cut the Selic rate by a
half-point to 12 percent came a day after Rousseff vowed to take
Brazil on a “new pathway” of lower borrowing costs. That
prompted analysts to speculate central bank President Alexandre Tombini had yielded to political pressure. Policy makers cited a
“substantial deterioration” in the global economy to justify
their decision.  The president’s remarks echo comments from the central bank
in its quarterly inflation report yesterday that “moderate”
rate cuts can help shield  Latin America ’s biggest economy from
the European debt crisis without compromising the government’s
inflation targets.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  at the same event today said
Brazil “has all the ammunition” it needs to bring interest
rates closer to levels seen in developed nations.  The same week the central bank cut the Selic rate, the
government raised by 10 billion reais its target for the primary
 budget surplus  in August, saying a more restricted fiscal stance
can assist the central bank in its fight against inflation.  Mantega repeated today his and Tombini’s preference to use
monetary policy instead of fiscal stimulus to buffer Brazil’s
economy should the global crisis worsen.  Rousseff also said today that Brazil will not manipulate
its  exchange rate , even though the international financial
crisis has heightened the risk that governments will resort to
protectionist trade policies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  