-- 
RPC Shares Rise on ‘Significantly Higher’ First-Half Forecast

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-09-30T08:41:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/rpc-shares-rise-on-significantly-higher-first-half-forecast.html
RPC Group Plc (RPC) , a British maker of
plastic containers for  consumer goods , touched its highest in
almost two months after saying first-half revenue will be
“significantly” higher than a year earlier.  RPC rose as much as 24.4 pence, or 7.5 percent, to 351.4
pence, the highest since Aug. 3. It traded at 347.7 pence at
9:15 a.m. in London, rising for a fifth day, its longest winning
streak since March. Adjusted profit before tax will probably
beat management forecasts, RPC Group said in a statement today.  “The improvement in the first half year is encouraging and
ahead of our expectations,” Chief Executive Officer Ron Marsh
said. Revenue growth will come from the integration of Superfos
Industries A/S and increased sales from stores open at least a
year, the company said. RPC bought packaging-maker Superfos in
February for 240 million euros ($324.9 million).  Operating profit will be higher than a year ago, driven by
a “better sales mix, efficient cost base” and declining
polymer prices, according to the statement.  “The pre-close statement has been good because of synergies
from the Superfos acquisition, and savings from RPC’s 2010
restructuring program are actually showing, now that raw
material prices are going down,” Craig Rachel, an analyst at
Altium Capital Ltd. in  London , said in a telephone interview.
“Earlier, polymer prices were going up. And the impact on
growth margins somewhat masked internal improvements.”  RPC Group posted revenue of 381.9 million pound and net
income of 13.1 million pound in the first half of 2010. In June,
Finance Director Pim Vervaat said the company is looking for
additional acquisition opportunities.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at  njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  