-- 
Rubber in Tokyo Climbs, Paring Quarterly Slump, as Growth Concern Eases

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-09-30T07:59:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/rubber-in-tokyo-climbs-paring-quarterly-slump-as-growth-concern-eases.html
Rubber advanced, paring a quarterly
decline, after U.S. initial jobless claims fell more than
estimated and German lawmakers backed an enhanced euro-region
rescue fund, easing concern that the global recovery may stall.  March-delivery rubber gained as much as 3.9 percent to
313.3 yen a kilogram ($4,087 a metric ton) before settling at
310.8 yen on the  Tokyo  Commodity Exchange. The most-active
contract has dropped 15 percent this quarter, extending the
second quarter’s loss of 15.6 percent.  Oil climbed for a second day, boosting the appeal of
natural rubber as an alternative to synthetic products, after
Germany’s lower house of parliament approved the expansion of
the European bailout fund. A drop in U.S. applications for
jobless benefits eased concern that high unemployment will damp
car sales and tire demand, curbing rubber consumption.  “Investors bought back futures after positive news from
the U.S. and Europe,”  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at broker
Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo, said today by phone. “A recovery in the
Shanghai market also spurred buying in Tokyo.”  In  Shanghai , January-delivery rubber increased for the
first time in three days, recovering from a one-year low reached
yesterday. The contract advanced as much as 4.7 percent to
27,880 yuan ($4,366) a ton before closing at 27,775 yuan. The
market will be closed next week for the National Day holiday.  Oil gained in  New York  as investors speculated that U.S.
fuel demand will rise after signals that the world’s biggest
economy is growing faster than previously estimated.  U.S. Growth  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.3 percent pace in the second
quarter, compared with a median forecast of 1.2 percent in a
Bloomberg survey. Initial jobless claims last week dropped to
the lowest level since April and pending homes sales in August
declined less than expected.  “Slightly positive economic data in the U.S. lifted the
mood,” said Juichi Wako, a senior strategist at Nomura Holdings
Inc. “We got a reprieve for  Europe ’s debt crisis.”  The price was also supported by falling supplies from
 Thailand , the largest producer, as persistent rains in the
country’s southern region have disrupted latex tapping, the
Rubber Research Institute of Thailand said on its website. The
cash price of Thai rubber dropped 1.1 percent to 129.60 baht
($4.16) a kilogram today, it said.  Crude rubber stockpiles held at Japanese warehouses rose 7
percent to 10,061 tons on Sept. 20, data from the Rubber Trade
Association of  Japan  showed today. Stockpiles of natural rubber
in Shanghai fell 1,950 tons to 31,816 tons, Shanghai Futures
Exchange said in a weekly report today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  