-- 
Russian Stocks Fall, Extending Biggest Quarterly Drop in 3 Years

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-09-30T15:50:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/russian-stocks-fall-extending-biggest-quarterly-drop-in-3-years.html
Russian stocks slid, extending the
biggest quarterly drop in almost three years as concern the
global expansion is faltering hurt the outlook for the country’s
commodity producers.  The benchmark Micex Index declined 2.9 percent to 1,366.54
by the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, paring an earlier loss of as
much as 4.7 percent and taking its quarterly drop to 18 percent,
the worst three months since Dec. 31, 2008. The dollar-
denominated RTS Index fell 3.5 percent to 1,341.09. OAO
Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender, slumped 5.7 percent. OAO
 Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel Works (MAGN) , Russian billionaire Victor
Rashnikov’s steelmaker, decreased 5.2 percent.  Europe’s sovereign debt problems and a possible default by
 Greece  are threatening to tip Russia’s biggest trading partner
back into recession. Declines in Chinese manufacturing and
German retail sales added to signs global growth is slowing.  “We are facing a slow-motion pile-up which is taking so
long to unfold, mainly because of what they are not doing to
address the  European debt crisis ,” Bruce Bower, a partner at
Moscow-based Verno Capital, which has $150 million under
management, said by phone today.  Retail sales in  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, dropped
the most in more than four years in August, according to a
report today. A gauge of Chinese manufacturing shrank for a
third month, the longest contraction since 2009. European
inflation unexpectedly quickened to the fastest in almost three
years this month.  OAO Uralkali, the world’s biggest producer of potash, a
fertilizer ingredient, plunged 9.3 percent, after a U.S.
Department of Agriculture report showed higher-than-expected
corn stocks.  Oil Drops  OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s largest oil producer, slid 3.4
percent to 189.84 rubles, while smaller rival OAO Lukoil slipped
1.1 percent to 1,637.4 rubles. Urals, Russia’s main export blend
of oil, declined 0.5 percent to $102.74. Brent dropped 2 percent
to $101.87 a barrel in  London .  Russia-focused funds had their second-biggest weekly
outflow in two years, UralSib Financial Corp. said today, citing
EPFR Global Data. The funds saw net outflows of $443 million in
the week ending Sept. 28, the 12th consecutive week of declines,
according to an e-mailed research note.  Part of the outflow was due to Prime Minister Vladimir
Putin’s decision over the weekend to return as president and the
ouster of Alexei Kudrin, Russia’s long-serving Finance Minister,
on Sept. 26 after he criticized President Dmitry Medvedev’s
support for increased  defense spending , according to Renaissance
Capital.  “The biggest reason for the large outflow is global risk
aversion, but it’s partly down to the emotional reaction to
Kudrin’s departure and the political tensions we’ve seen,”
 Ovanes Oganisian , a Moscow-based equity strategist at
Renaissance, said by phone today.  The Micex has fallen 19 percent this year and trades at 4.9
times estimated earnings compared with a 24 percent drop for the
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , which is valued at 9.4 times
earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  