-- 
Russian Railways May Sell Entire 50% Stake in TransContainer

-- B y   A l e n a   C h e c h e l   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 
2011-09-30T10:28:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/russian-railways-may-sell-entire-50-stake-in-transcontainer.html
OAO Russian Railways, which is
selling some of its largest subsidiaries this year, may offer
investors its entire 50 percent stake in London-listed cargo
unit OAO TransContainer, a deputy economy minister said.  The ministry has spoken to potential investors and most of
them favor the sale of a majority stake rather than the planned
sale of 25 percent, Stanislav Voskresensky said yesterday by
phone from Moscow.  Russia ’s railway monopoly owns 50 percent
plus one share in Moscow-based TransContainer.  “The sale of a controlling stake would allow Russian
Railways to maximize its revenue,” Voskresensky said. “This
proposal has been submitted for consideration by the
government.”  Russia is selling stakes in government-owned businesses as
President  Dmitry Medvedev  seeks to reduce the state’s role in
the economy. Other companies whose shares will be offered to
investors include the country’s biggest oil producer OAO Rosneft
and its largest lender OAO Sberbank.  TransContainer held an initial public offering in Moscow
and London in November 2010, raising about $400 million with
Russian Railways selling a 35 percent stake. The shares have
dropped 2.1 percent this year and were up 3.3 percent at 11:26
a.m. in  London  today, valuing the container-shipping company at
$1.3 billion.  Planned Auction  Russian Railways had planned to auction 25 percent of
TransContainer by September, senior vice president Valery Reshetnikov said in May. Reviewing the size of the stake may
delay the sale until next year, hampering plans by Russian
Railways to raise 349 billion rubles ($10.9 billion) for its
2011 investment program, Chief Executive Officer Vladimir Yakunin said Aug. 5. The company also plans to offer 75 percent
minus two shares in cargo carrier Freight One at a starting
price of 125.4 billion rubles.  It’s up to the government “to decide on the sale and size
of the stake,” Russian Railways spokesman Dmitry Pertsev said.  The state monopoly’s board approved the starting price of
the 25 percent stake at 10.7 billion rubles in April. The price
may be revised, senior vice president Vadim Mikhailov said Aug.
31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alena Chechel in Moscow at 
 achechel@bloomberg.net ;
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  