-- 
Safaricom of Kenya Raises Call Rates for First Time in 11 Years

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-09-30T12:35:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/safaricom-of-kenya-raises-call-rates-on-inflation-currency.html
Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) , Kenya’s largest
mobile-phone operator, increased call tariffs for the first time
in 11 years amid a weakening currency and rising inflation in
 East Africa ’s biggest economy.  Rates will rise by an average of 1 shilling per minute with
effect from tomorrow, Chief Executive Officer Bob Collymore told
reporters today in Nairobi. Calls between Safaricom users climb
to 4 shillings and calls by subscribers to rival networks rise
to 5 shillings, he said.  “What we have set out to do is to run a sustainable
business,” he said. “We have to charge at a price which makes
sense for our customers as well as shareholders.”  Kenyan inflation accelerated for the 11th consecutive month
to 17.3 percent in September. The shilling is the world’s worst-
performing currency against the dollar this year after falling
19 percent, making imports of goods including telecommunication
equipment more expensive.  Safaricom shares fell 1.7 percent to 2.95 shillings ahead
of the announcement, giving the company a market value of 118
billion shillings ($1.18 billion).  The increase in tariffs marks the first upward adjustment
since a price war began in August 2010 when the
telecommunications-industry regulator ordered mobile-phone
operators to halve the rates they charge each other to transmit
calls across networks. That triggered a round of reductions in
call costs by companies to as low as 2 shillings per minute.  Subscribers Increase  The number of mobile-phone users in  Kenya  grew at the
fastest pace in at least a year, rising 12 percent to 25
million, in the three months through December as the cost of
calls fell, the  Communications Commission of Kenya  said June 8.  In June, President Mwai Kibaki ordered a halt to further
cuts in call tariffs after companies including Safaricom and
rival Telkom Kenya Ltd. opposed the reductions, Business Daily
reported. Network charges had been expected to drop to 1.44
shillings at the beginning of July from 2.21 shillings, it said.  Safaricom is 40 percent-owned by Vodafone Plc, the world’s
biggest mobile-phone operator. Its other competitors include
Airtel Kenya Ltd., a unit of New Delhi-based  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,
and Essar Telecom Kenya Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 