-- 
Samsung Electronics Gives Apple Proposal to End Australia Patent Dispute

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-09-30T08:57:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/samsung-electronics-gives-apple-proposal-to-end-australia-patent-dispute.html
Samsung Electronics Co. made a
proposal to Apple Inc. to resolve their patent dispute in
 Australia  regarding touch-screen technology, a Sydney court was
told today.  Samsung lawyer David Catterns didn’t give details about the
proposal, and Apple will need time to consider it, Apple lawyer
Steven Burley told the court.  Catterns’s proposal is a bid to end the last dispute over
patent technology in Australia that’s seen Samsung hold off
selling its Galaxy 10.1 tablet in the country. Apple’s claim
that Samsung violated patents for its iPhone and iPad in
Australia is part of a wider patent battle between the two
companies that has come up in courts on four continents.  Samsung agreed earlier to hold off selling the Galaxy 10.1
in Australia as Federal Court Justice Annabelle Bennett rules
on Apple’s request for an injunction barring the sale of the
Samsung tablets until a court rules on its patent infringement
claim.  The two sides failed to conclude their arguments today as
scheduled, and the hearing is set to resume on Oct. 4, after a
public holiday in New South Wales. Bennett, who said yesterday
she aimed to deliver a ruling next week, told the lawyers she
couldn’t give a time-frame for a decision on the injunction.  “I can’t promise when I’ll make a decision,” Bennett
said. “I will try to get it out as soon as possible.”  Samsung agreed this week to withdraw two features from the
Galaxy 10.1 which allegedly infringed Apple’s patents. That
reduced their dispute in Australia to the one patent over touch-
screen display technology.  Bennett pressed both sides to consider a trial over the
patent claim as early as the last week of October. Apple had
already agreed to an early trial.  The case is:  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co.
NSD1243/2011. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  