-- 
Sarkozy to Meet Merkel as Europe Weighs Stepped-Up Effort to Rescue Greece

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-10-01T17:29:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/sarkozy-sees-no-credible-alternative-to-aiding-greece-to-protect-europe.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  will
meet German Chancellor Angela Merkel Oct. 9 as European
officials begin debating a new phase in their efforts to prevent
a Greek default.  There’s “no credible alternative” to channeling aid to
 Greece , Sarkozy said Sept. 30 after meeting Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  in Paris.  His remarks signal the fight over an expansion of Europe’s
bailout tool kit that will follow the enactment in coming weeks
of the upgraded 440 billion-euro ($594 billion) European
Financial Stability Facility. Euro finance chiefs in the new
week will discuss accelerating enactment of a permanent rescue
fund that provides more capital and a way of managing defaults.  “The failure of Greece would be the failure of all of
Europe,” Sarkozy told reporters. “Remember in 2008, when the
U.S. let  Lehman Brothers  fail, the global financial system paid
the price. For both economic reasons and moral reasons, we can’t
let Greece fail.”  Sarkozy said he will travel to Berlin to meet Merkel to
discuss speeding the economic integration of the euro region.  The two leaders will meet on Oct. 9, said a person with
knowledge of the plan, who declined to be identified because the
date hasn’t been formally announced.  Oct. 9 Meeting  Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, declined to
comment on the date to Bloomberg News today, saying that the two
leaders plan to meet before the next European Union Council
summit in mid-October.  Greek bonds, debt of other bailed-out nations and European
stocks gained this past week on speculation that euro leaders
were responding to international pressure to address the crisis,
which began in Greece in late 2009.  Europeans haven’t responded “as effectively as they needed
to,” President  Barack Obama  said during a roundtable discussion
at the White House this past week.  Papandreou said he committed to Sarkozy to carrying his
promises to fix Greek finances and “change” the nation. As he
traveled to Paris, civil servants and unions in  Athens  opposed
to wage and pension cuts occupied government offices for a
second day, blocking access for officials seeking to determine
whether the country qualifies for an international loan to avert
default.  Aid ‘Assured’  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos continued
meetings with the officials from the European Union,  European
Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund  today, a finance
ministry official said. Another meeting with the so-called
troika was due late Saturday to discuss final details to the
2012 budget, which is to be discussed by Cabinet in Athens
Sunday, the official said.  Venizelos told To Vima newspaper in an interview published
today that it is “assured” Greece will receive the next, 8
billion-euro tranche of bailout loans needed for the nation to
meet debt payments for the remainder of this year.  Separately, Papandreou today welcomed news of a $1 billion
investment by Qatar Holdings LLC in  European Goldfields Ltd. (EGU) ,
the London-listed company behind one of the biggest gold-mining
projects in Greece.  Qatar will acquire a 10 percent stake from Ellaktor SA and
will have an option to buy another 5 percent from the Greek
construction company. It will also provide European Goldfields
with a $600 million financing facility, Ahmad al-Sayed, the
chief executive officer of Qatar Holdings told reporters in
Athens.  EFSF Changes?  European governments are moving toward enacting the
permanent fund next year, a year sooner than planned, to replace
the EFSF. Phasing in the permanent fund, known as the European
Stability Mechanism, would provide a 500 billion-euro war chest.
It also includes provisions for sharing costs with bondholders
for countries with “unsustainable” debt.  Additional measures now in play include reopening the
second Greek rescue agreed in July to increase the financial
industry’s contribution and creating a safety net for  Europe ’s
banks.  “The situation on the international financial markets is
worrying,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
lawmakers Sept. 30 in Berlin. He said the EFSF upgrade is
“urgent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  