-- 
Schaeuble Cites Contagion Risk as German States Vote on EFSF

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-09-30T09:31:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/schaeuble-cites-contagion-risk-as-german-states-vote-on-efsf.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said “worryingly high” global debt levels and the
risk of a banking crisis mean the expansion of the euro-area’s
rescue fund is urgent.  Schaeuble made the warning in a speech to a session of
Germany’s upper house of parliament that will vote later today
on bigger powers for the 440 billion-euro ($596 billion)
backstop for indebted euro countries. The lower house backed the
changes yesterday in a victory for  Chancellor Angela Merkel .  “The real concern is that the situation on the financial
markets, the still worryingly high level of debt in many states
-- not only in the  euro zone , but also outside the euro zone --
could lead to a crisis in the finance and banking sector, where
the danger of contagion is particularly great” Schaeuble said.
“It’s urgent that we have these additional instruments at hand
very quickly.”  The upper house, which groups delegates from  Germany ’s 16
state governments, can delay legislation by demanding changes.
While Merkel lacks a majority in the chamber, the main
opposition parties, the  Social Democrats  and Greens, back the
expansion of the European Financial Stability Facility. The
upper house is due to vote at about 1 p.m. Berlin time.  The lower house passed the measure with 523 votes in favor
and 85 against, granting the fund powers to buy bonds in
secondary markets, enable bank recapitalizations and offer
precautionary credit lines. It raises Germany’s guarantees to
211 billion euros from 123 billion euros.  “The worry among our population is huge,” Schaeuble said.
“We are moving very quickly from the nervous situation on the
financial markets to a significant burden on the national and
global economies, including in  Europe  and the German economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  