-- 
Schumer Says Overwhelming Support for China Currency Measure

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-30T19:25:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/schumer-says-overwhelming-support-for-china-currency-measure-1-.html
Senator  Charles Schumer  said
overwhelming support has emerged in the Senate for legislation
letting U.S. companies seek duties on imports from China to
compensate for the effects of a weak yuan.  “This bill is on a fast track for passage in the Senate,”
Schumer, a New York Democrat, said today on a conference call
with other lawmakers. “Once it passes the Senate, it’s going to
be hard for the House to block it. I’m optimistic this bill can
get to the president’s desk.”  The Senate is scheduled to debate the legislation next
week. Besides Schumer, senators backing the bill include
Democrats Sherrod Brown of Ohio and  Debbie Stabenow  of Michigan
and Republicans Lindsey Graham of  South Carolina  and Jeff Sessions of Alabama. Lawmakers have said a weak currency gives
Chinese companies an unfair advantage against U.S. manufacturers
and cost more than 2.8 million jobs since 2001.  Schumer proposed similar measures penalizing the world’s
second-largest economy in each of the past six years. None
received a Senate vote.  While the yuan has appreciated 4.9 percent against the U.S.
dollar in the past year and 24 percent in the past five years,
the steepest advance after Colombia’s peso among 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, the lawmakers said that
isn’t fast enough. The nation limits currency conversions for
investment purposes and buys dollars to slow the yuan’s advance
and preserve the competitiveness of  China ’s exports.  Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, on Sept. 28 asked
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and U.S. Trade
Representative Ron Kirk to clarify their views on the legality
of the bill before the Senate debates. The Obama administration
considers China’s currency as “substantially undervalued” and
is reviewing the legislation, White House press secretary Jay Carney said on Sept. 28.  In crafting the bill, the senators were careful to use
language that makes it compliant with World Trade Organization
rules, Stabenow said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  