-- 
SEC Says Large Rating Firm May Have Leaked Pending Rate Move

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-30T19:53:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/sec-says-large-credit-rater-may-have-leaked-pending-rate-move.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission inspectors said a large credit-rating firm’s
procedures “appeared to allow” for a pending rating decision
to be disclosed to certain people before the action was publicly
announced.  The findings, based on inspections conducted in 2009 and
2010, were part of the SEC’s first annual report on credit-
rating firms mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act. Carlo di Florio,
head of the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations,
declined to identify any of the firms referenced in the  report .  “If we find any concerns or significant violations of law
we make referrals to the Enforcement Division and they take
appropriate action,” di Florio said in a conference call with
reporters today.  Regulators are evaluating credit-raters’ policies to
determine whether firms have provided some investors more
information than others, the report said.  The report highlights issues similar to those at the center
of a review of whether Standard and Poor’s employees improperly
gave certain investors information about its decision to
downgrade U.S. debt before doing so on Aug. 5, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the matter. The U.S. downgrade
occurred more than a year after the period covered by the SEC
report.  S&P warned on July 14 that there was a “one-in-two
likelihood” it would reduce the U.S.’s AAA grade to AA+ in the
absence of a credible plan to decrease deficits even if the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit were lifted.  S&P Meetings  SEC inspectors have examined whether meetings between S&P
staff and certain investors to discuss the possible rating cut
violated rules that prohibit confidential information from being
disclosed selectively to some market participants, according to
the person with direct knowledge of the matter. The SEC has also
reviewed S&P’s methodology for the downgrade and whether proper
review procedures were followed, the person said.  Blackrock Inc., Western Asset Management, and TCW Group
Inc., which oversee almost $4 trillion, were visited by S&P
after the firm’s July statement, according to people briefed on
the conversations who spoke on condition of anonymity because
the meetings were private.  S&P, Moody’s Investors Service, and  Fitch Ratings  are the
largest of 10 firms approved by the SEC to assign credit
rankings used by investors and regulators to evaluate
securities. Many pension and mutual funds require minimum
ratings to buy debt, and banks generally must hold more capital
to back bonds deemed of lower quality.  Fitch  Daniel Noonan , a spokesman for Fitch, said his firm was not
the one identified in the report as having potential problems
with the procedures guarding against selective disclosure.  “Each firm must be judged on its own merits,” Noonan said
in an e-mailed statement. “We are pleased that the SEC report
reflects no material deficiencies at Fitch, and any concerns
that do pertain to Fitch are being swiftly addressed.”  Anthony Mirenda, a spokesman for Moody’s, said the firm
“welcomes the SEC’s constructive recommendations to our
industry.”  Laws that forbid companies from privately disclosing
material information generally don’t extend to conversations
between corporations and ratings companies, which are designated
by the SEC as Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating
Organizations, or NRSROs. The rating firms must create and
follow internal policies governing disclosure and obey insider
trading statutes.  ‘Further Enhancements’  “We are pleased that The Commission recognizes the
improvements we have undertaken over the last few years,”  Ed Sweeney , an S&P spokesman, said in a statement today. “Since
2009, we have invested over $200 million to improve our quality,
criteria, compliance and risk management functions. We are
committed to making further enhancements.”  In August, Sweeney said the firm “takes its confidential
information and securities trading policies, and the related
securities regulation, very seriously. Our policies prohibit
analysts or rating committee members from trading and holding
securities or options of the companies or governments they
rate.”  The SEC found instances in which conflict-of-interest
policies “may have been unclear or not as comprehensive as may
be prudent,” according to the report.  The report said two smaller firms had problems with
employees holding securities potentially related to their work.
The report also found that two larger firms rate for issuers
that are “significant shareholders” in the ratings companies,
which “could present a conflict of interest.”  Compliance  The SEC’s report details several other problems with
unnamed NRSROs, saying that at one “larger” rater, high
turnover and lack of access to executives may prevent the
compliance officer from carrying out duties. The company has had
four different compliance officers since 2008, and its current
officer is serving on an interim basis, the SEC said.  Moody’s named Janet Holmes interim compliance officer on
April 13, replacing Jeffrey Schwartz as the person responsible
for reporting to regulators on compliance with securities laws,
the company said in documents on its website. In 2009, Scott
McClesky, a former Moody’s compliance executive, told the House
Oversight Committee that the company ignored his warnings about
municipal bond ratings.  Fees  The report also noted some smaller firms are moving away
from charging subscribers for ratings and are switching to the
wider industry practice of collecting fees from issuers of
products being rated. The practice has drawn criticism as an
inherent conflict of interest, and Dodd-Frank required the SEC
to consider establishing an independent board to assign ratings
for structured financial products.  Examinations for next year’s report are set to begin soon,
di Florio said, and the firms’ progress in addressing SEC
recommendations will be evaluated.  “We will give them a reasonable opportunity to develop
remediation plans,” he said. If the rating companies fail to
fix problems urgently enough, that “would lead to more robust
action on our part.”  Dodd-Frank also required the SEC to set up an independent
office to oversee credit ratings. The formation of that office
has been blocked by  House Republicans  who have criticized the
agency’s performance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  