-- 
SEC Watchdog Rejects Misconduct Claims in Cuban Probe

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-09-30T18:53:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/sec-watchdog-rejects-claims-of-staff-misconduct-in-cuban-probe.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s internal watchdog found “insufficient evidence”
that the agency’s enforcement staff engaged in misconduct while
looking into insider-trading allegations against billionaire
 Mark Cuban , according to a report on his investigation.  Inspector General H. David Kotz, whose  report  was released
today, said his review didn’t find evidence to support Cuban’s
claims that SEC staff members were biased against him. Kotz
launched his investigation after lawyers for Cuban, owner of the
 Dallas  Mavericks professional basketball team, complained about
the enforcement staff in a January 2009 letter.  The SEC sued Cuban in 2008, claiming he traded on
confidential information when he sold his stock in Mamma.com
Inc. just before it announced a private share sale that would
dilute his stake. Cuban denied the claims and won dismissal of
the lawsuit. The SEC, which claimed that Cuban avoided about
$750,000 in losses, won an appeal to have the claims reinstated.  “The SEC’s top-notch and hardworking team handled this
matter professionally and responsibly,”  Robert Khuzami , the
agency’s enforcement director, said in a statement. “The
allegations made by Mr. Cuban’s counsel are unsubstantiated, and
we look forward to presenting our insider trading case against
Mr. Cuban in court.”  Ralph Ferrara, an attorney for Cuban at Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP
in Washington, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  Cuban, 53, said last month in a filing in Dallas federal
court that he needs access to SEC investigative documents on
Mamma.com, the Montreal-based Internet search company now known
as Copernic Inc., to fight the SEC’s insider-trading claims.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cuban,
08-cv-2050, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas 
(Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  