-- 
Serbian Fiscal Council Says Wider Deficit ‘Justified and Timely’

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-09-30T09:43:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/serbian-fiscal-council-says-wider-deficit-justified-and-timely-.html
Serbia ’s plan to widen the fiscal
gap under its supplementary 2011 budget is “justified,
desirable and timely” in order to respond to an economic
slowdown already seen in declining budget revenue, the Fiscal
Council said.  The widening of the deficit to 4.5 percent of gross
domestic product from 4.1 percent as set in the original budget
at the start of the year is also in line with fiscal rules and
reflects new forecasts of weaker than expected economic growth,
the Fiscal Council said in a report to parliament and made
available to Bloomberg.  The new deficit plan has been approved by the  International
Monetary Fund , whose board of directors confirmed a new, 1
billion-euro ($1.36 billion) precautionary loan deal for the
Balkan nation last night.  “In line with fiscal rules, but also in the spirit of good
economic policy, it is allowed to increase the fiscal deficit by
0.4 percent of GDP, or roughly by around 13 billion dinars,
which matches the estimated decline in  tax revenue  in 2011,”
the report said.  The declining tax revenue resulted primarily from an
“economic slowdown,” not “bad budget planning” as public
spending levels remained unchanged compared with the original
2011 plan.  The IMF revised down its forecast for Serbia’s GDP growth
to 2 percent from 3 percent in 2011 and to 3 percent from 4.5
percent for 2012, to reflect global economic concerns.  Weaker Growth  With weaker growth felt across southeast Europe already
during the summer and with Europe’s debt crisis, growth
prospects in the third and fourth quarters “are uncertain” and
“we consider that there are risks that economic growth in 2011
will be below 2 percent,” the Fiscal Council said.  Parliament appointed the three-member  body  from nominations
of independent economists by the president and prime minister to
monitor compliance with fiscal rules.  Earlier in the day, the Serbian Statistics Office reported
second-quarter GDP growth of 2.4 percent, above its flash
estimate of a 2.2 percent expansion compared with the same
period a year ago.  Serbia could achieve the 2 percent growth if industrial
output stagnates in the remaining part of the year. Further
declines in industrial output could bring the full-year GDP
growth further down “to around 1.5 percent.” In the best-case
scenario, GDP growth could reach 2.6 percent only if industrial
output recovers.  Foreign Direct Investment  The authorities pinned hopes on capital inflows and foreign
direct investments for better growth results this year. The
Fiscal Council says  Europe ’s debt crisis is likely to affect
activity in the banking sector in Serbia, majority owned by
institutions from  Italy ,  Greece ,  Austria  and  France , forcing
them to refrain from adding capital to their Serbian units
“until the situation at home stabilizes.”  The country’s borrowing costs will likely increase as  risk
premium , measured by JP Morgan’s Emerging Market Bond Index
(EMBI), already topped 600 basis points at the end of September,
or 250 basis points more than in April, the Fiscal Council said.  Still, Serbia’s public debt-to-GDP ratio is likely to stay
below the 45 percent cap. The Fiscal Council sees the end-year
public debt-to-GDP ratio at 43.5 percent if the government
refrains from any additional borrowing. Last week’s debut
Eurobond sale is “sufficient to finance a great deal of the
deficit in the first half of the next year,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  