-- 
Serbia Says IMF Clears 1 Billion-Euro Precautionary Loan Program

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-09-30T06:22:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/serbia-says-imf-clears-1-billion-euro-precautionary-loan-program.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
approved a 1 billion-euro ($1.36 billion) precautionary loan for
Serbia, Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  said.  The new program “books” 1 billion euros that Serbia “can
use in the case of crisis or big problems,” Cvetkovic was cited
by Beta  news agency  as saying. The IMF office in Belgrade
confirmed that the loan was cleared.  Serbia sought the so-called precautionary loan program to
shield it from external shocks, while anchoring fiscal policies
and boosting investor confidence.  To qualify for the program, Serbia’s government adopted a
revised 2011 budget that caps this year’s fiscal deficit target
at 4.5 percent of economic output and sets a limit on cash for
refunding property seized by Communists seven decades ago to
about 6 percent of the nation’s gross domestic product.  The new loan was agreed upon less than five months after
the Balkan nation completed a 3 billion-euro credit that helped
it weather the global financial crisis, which sparked a
recession.  Serbia  used about half the loan and even with the
ongoing economic slowdown in its main trading partners and the
euro area debt crisis, the government said it doesn’t plan to
draw funds from the new agreement.  The Washington-based lender has already revised down its
2011 economic-growth forecast for Serbia to 2 percent from 3
percent, and to 3 percent next year from 4.5 percent.  Slower economic output, already seen in revenue
collections, led the IMF to approve an increase in the fiscal
gap to 3.9 percent of gross domestic product next year, compared
with a previous estimate of 3.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  