-- 
Skyworks-AnalogicTech Merger Fight May Test New Delaware Arbitration Rules

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-09-30T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/skyworks-analogictech-merger-fight-may-test-new-delaware-arbitration-rules.html
Skyworks Solutions Inc. (SWKS) , a
semiconductor maker, said in May that it would buy  Advanced
Analogic Technologies Inc. (AATI) , heralding the $260 million deal as a
means of expanding into the consumer electronics, communications
and computing markets.  Two months later, the deal showed signs of unraveling and
by Sept. 16, Skyworks Chief Executive Officer David Aldrich was
trying to delay or terminate it, according to a regulatory
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Skyworks said in the filing that AnalogicTech had breached
its agreement “to act and carry on its business in the usual,
regular and ordinary course” and to “use commercially
reasonable best efforts, consistent with past practices, to
maintain and preserve” its assets and relationships with its
customers.  AnalogicTech, a  Santa Clara , California-based chipmaker,
said in a statement that it hadn't breached the merger agreement 
and had filed a petition for arbitration with Delaware’s
Chancery Court to force the deal. Woburn, Massachusetts-based
Skyworks filed its own petition Sept. 26, seeking to cancel the 
deal.  The dueling petitions are among the first to test the 
Chancery Court’s 2010 adoption of  its own arbitration process , 
in which one of the five chancery judges can preside over 
arbitrations. The unusual system may streamline litigation in 
Delaware, though it has caused some legal experts to question 
its lack of transparency.  Fortune 500  The Chancery Court in Wilmington has jurisdiction over the
majority of Fortune 500 companies, as most are incorporated in
 Delaware . As a result, disputes involving those firms often
result in lawsuits filed in the state. The new arbitration
system may eventually lessen the burden such litigation places
on the state’s courts.  Unlike a lawsuit, arbitration severely limits discovery, or
the exchange of evidence between parties, and can be kept
confidential. Under the Chancery rules, the petition seeking
arbitration is itself kept under seal.  The cost of pursuing a lawsuit typically dwarfs
arbitration, and the cost of a Chancery arbitration is likely to
be much less than using private arbitrators, said Kenneth Nachbar, a partner with Morris, Nichols Arsht & Tunnell in
Wilmington. The fees for a Chancery arbitration are $12,000 for
the first day, which, lawyers said may be less than an outside
arbitration panel.  Costs Vary  Arbitration costs can vary widely depending on the
arbitrator’s hourly rates of as well as the complexity of the
dispute, lawyers said. Based on  International Chamber of
Commerce  rules, a three-person panel deciding a $1 million
dispute would cost an average of $130,455, according to a
website calculator provided by the Wolf Theiss law firm in
Vienna.  According to Kenneth Lagowski, a chancery administrator,
the new system is “a way to try to stay ahead of other courts
-- and to provide less expensive ways to litigate” without
paying for a full-length trial.  And, while it may be less expensive for the litigants, the
arbitration system is “designed to be a money-maker for the
Chancery Court,” said  Charles Elson , a finance professor at the
 University of Delaware  who runs the school’s Weinberg Center for
 Corporate Governance .  Delaware Judiciary  The budget for the entire Delaware judiciary for fiscal
year 2012,  according to the state’s website,  is $91.3 million
with $3.1 million earmarked for the Chancery Court. According to
the 2010 annual report for the Delaware judiciary, the Chancery
Court generated $664,700 in fees, costs and interest last year.  The new court-sponsored system has gained some opponents
because of the participation of judges in the process.  “Having active judges hearing these arbitrations should
cause them to be disclosed publicly,” John Flaherty, president
of the Delaware Coalition for Open Government, said in a phone
interview. “The Delaware Chancery Court is recognized as the
preeminent business court in the U.S., in part because of the
transparency of its operations.”  The Chancery Court is a top forum for litigating business
disputes because more than 60 percent of Fortune 500 companies
are incorporated in Delaware, according to legal experts such as
 University of Pennsylvania  law professor Jill Fisch.  Corporate Finance  Brian Quinn, a professor at Boston College Law School who
specializes in corporate finance and transactions, said that
arbitration will shield disputes -- and in particular, contract
interpretation -- from becoming part of the “general body of
Delaware law.”  Quinn, who writes about deals in the  M&A Law Prof Blog ,
acknowledged the confidentiality of arbitration may be not be
absolute since public companies must disclose material disputes
in securities filings.  Both AnalogicTech’s and Skyworks’ petitions came to light
through regulatory filings with the SEC. Neither Rod Howard, a
lawyer at Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP who represents
Skyworks, nor Marc Reinstra, a lawyer at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich
& Rosati PC who represents AnalogicTech, returned calls seeking
comment about the petitions for arbitration.  Pilar Barrigas, a Skyworks spokeswoman, didn’t return a
call seeking comment on the arbitration.  Andrew Siegel , an
AnalogicTech spokesman, declined to comment on it.  Currently, arbitration clauses are rarely used because of a
fear that an arbitrator will “cut the baby in half” when
ruling on a dispute, said Ethan Klingsberg, a mergers-and-
acquisitions partner in the New York office of  Cleary Gottlieb
Steen & Hamilton LLP .  While only five petitions for arbitration have been filed
under the new Delaware system according to Lagowski, the number
may increase dramatically,  Since Chancery rules allow for the arbitrators to compel
performance by a party in addition to permitting
confidentiality, Klingsberg said, Delaware arbitration may hold
a greater appeal to merger candidates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 ereosen14@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  