-- 
Slovenia Plans Cap on Debt and Loan Guarantees to Limit Spending

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-09-30T08:42:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/slovenia-plans-cap-on-debt-and-loan-guarantees-to-limit-spending.html
Slovenia’s outgoing government
proposed limiting state-guaranteed loans to 20 percent of gross
domestic product, excluding its contribution to the European
Union rescue fund, as the nation seeks to cut public spending.  The government, which was ousted on Sept. 20, also proposed
capping public debt at 48 percent of total output, the Cabinet
said on its  website . That compares with a previous proposal of
45 percent, which was surpassed in the first three months and
stood at 45.2 percent. The euro-region stability pact foresees a
limit of 60 percent of public debt versus GDP.  “We are on track to cut spending, although some of the
one-time measures like capital boosts for a bank, state railways
and the national air carrier have somewhat worsened the picture
this year,” Finance Minister  Franc Krizanic  said in Ljubljana.  Slovenia, which joined the euro region in 2007, had its
 credit rating  cut one level by  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s in the
past week on weaknesses in its banking industry, a poor economic
outlook and concern that political uncertainty may undermine
cuts in public spending. Fitch also reduced the credit score of
seven Slovenian banks, including the two largest, Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d., in
which the state keeps a majority.  The government keeps 3.5 billion euros ($4.7 billion) of
its cash from the sale bonds as deposits with Slovenian banks to
ensure the stability of the system, Finance newspaper said
today, citing the  Finance Ministry . The Ljubljana-based
newspaper said Slovenia may need to sell more government debt by
the year’s end, without saying where it obtained the
information.  Liquidity Problems  Problems with liquidity can be solved by resorting to
financing by the  European Central Bank , Nova Ljubljana Chief
Executive Officer Bozo Jasovic said yesterday at a business
forum in Portoroz, Slovenia.  Lawmakers approved the nation’s guarantees of 3.66 billion
euros to the European Financial Stability Facility on Sept. 27
after the collapse of the government raised concern about a
possible delay.  Fitch ratings said the banking industry may need as much as
3.1 billion euros of fresh capital. Nova Ljubljanska, the
country’s biggest lender, is seeking to raise 400 million euros
by the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  