-- 
Solyndra Needs Bankruptcy to Answer Financial Questions, U.S. Lawyer Says

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-10-01T00:22:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/solyndra-said-to-need-trustee-for-bankruptcy.html
Solyndra LLC, the bankrupt solar-
panel maker under investigation, should have a trustee
overseeing its bankruptcy because top executives won’t answer
questions about the company’s finances, the U.S. Trustee said in
court papers.  Chief Executive Officer Brian Harrison and Chief Financial
Officer W.G. Stover have asserted their constitutional right not
to answer questions related to a criminal matter, which prevents
them from “properly exercising their fiduciary duties,”
Roberta A. DeAngelis, U.S. Trustee for the Mid-Atlantic region,
said in court papers.  The company, based in Fremont,  California , faces a probe by
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and Republicans in Congress
over a $535 million federal loan guarantee it used to build a
$733 million factory. Solyndra filed for bankruptcy this month
with a plan to either sell the eight-month-old factory or
liquidate the specialized equipment used to manufacture its
solar panels.  David Miller , a spokesman for Solyndra, didn’t respond to a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment on the U.S. Trustee’s
filing.  The U.S. Trustee is an arm of the U.S. Justice Department
that monitors corporate bankruptcies.  Before the two Solyndra executives refused to testify at a
Sept. 23 hearing in Congress, another company executive,
Benjamin Schwartz, declined to answer questions from the U.S.
Trustee about Solyndra’s contracts with customers, according to
court papers filed today in Wilmington,  Delaware .  ‘The Linchpins’  “Transparency and disclosure are the linchpins of the
bankruptcy system” and all bankrupt companies have “a duty to
inform creditors, the United States Trustee, and the court about
its finances and circumstances leading to its bankruptcy,” the
trustee said in court papers.  Solyndra’s lawyers have indicated to the U.S. Trustee that
the company has “taken steps” to hire a chief restructuring
officer, which would handle the bankruptcy proceedings.  The executives’ silence raises questions about “the
reliability of the information” that would be provided to
creditors “from any subordinate source,” the trustee argued in
court documents.  The FBI probe seeks to discover if accounting fraud
occurred at the company, according to an agency official, who
requested anonymity because the investigation is continuing.  Possible Misrepresentations  The FBI is examining possible misrepresentations in
financial statements submitted to the Energy Department, the
agency official said. The FBI raided the company’s offices on
Sept. 8, two days after the company sought court protection.  “Regardless of the outcome of any pending investigations,
management will undoubtedly be distracted by them” and Solyndra
and its creditors deserve “an independent trustee who can
devote undivided attention” to the case, the Trustee said in
court papers.  Solyndra’s collapse has prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised the solar panel-maker during
a May 2010 tour of its facilities. The Obama administration
issued final approval of the loan that also won support from
officials in the administration of  George W. Bush .  The company received court approval this week to hold an
Oct. 27 auction to sell assets, including the $733 million
Fremont factory, built with funds from the U.S.-backed loan.  If U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath refuses to appoint a
trustee, she should convert the case to a liquidation under
Chapter 7 of the  bankruptcy code , the U.S. Trustee said.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 