-- 
South Africa Beats Samoa to Reach Rugby World Cup Quarterfinals

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-30T10:36:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/south-africa-beats-samoa-to-reach-rugby-world-cup-quarterfinals.html
Defending champion  South Africa 
advanced to the Rugby World Cup quarterfinals as the Pool D
winner after beating Samoa 13-5 in the teams’ final group match.  Bryan Habana  touched down and Frans Steyn and Morne Steyn
kicked penalties in the first half as the second-ranked
Springboks overcame the Pacific Island team at North Harbour
Stadium in Auckland. The underdogs outscored South Africa in the
second half, with George Stowers crossing the line in the 51st
minute.  “It was very tough,” Springboks captain  Victor Matfield 
said. “The first half we played all right, the second half we
went to sleep and the Samoans came out with a lot of heart. They
kept the ball and they ran hard, but luckily our defense held
them out.”  South Africa’s record 11th straight victory in World Cup
games lifted it to 18 points atop Pool D. The Springboks can’t
be caught by second-place  Wales , which has 10 points and faces
Fiji in the five-team group’s last match in two days.  South Africa, seeking to win the Webb Ellis Cup for the
third time after taking the title in 1995 and 2007, joined
tournament favorite  New Zealand  as the only teams guaranteed a
place in the last eight. The other six spots will be decided in
the final seven pool games taking place this weekend.  By finishing top, South Africa will play its quarterfinal
Oct. 9 in Wellington against the Pool C runner-up. Australia
currently occupies that position before it takes on  Russia 
tomorrow. First-place Ireland plays Italy the following day and
will win the group by avoiding defeat.  Penalty Kicks  South Africa, which won its six previous matches against
Samoa by an average margin of 42 points, took advantage of a
strong tail wind in the first half to kick the penalties that
made the difference.  Habana scored down the wing in the 9th minute, becoming the
first South African to score 40 test tries, and Morne Steyn
added the conversion.  The Springboks weren’t able to touch down again despite
having the momentum as Frans Steyn and Morne Steyn added
penalties to make it 13-0 at the half. Morne Steyn’s kick made
him the second South African to score more than 400 Test points.  The Samoans, who needed at least a point to keep hopes of
moving to the quarterfinals, increased the pressure in the
second half as they got the wind behind them.  Stowers powered over several Springboks, extending his arm
to touch down. It was the second try South Africa has allowed in
the tournament.  Paul Williams  was red carded in the 70th minute for a blow
to the head to a Springbok, leaving the Samoans short-handed. A
minute later,  John Smit , the sole South African to play in each
of their matches at the event, was given a yellow card for a
professional foul, leaving the sides even for the remainder of
the game.  ‘Proud’  “I wasn’t disappointed,” Samoa captain Mahonri Schwalger
said. “I’m pretty proud of what my boys did out there tonight.
They gave it all for our people and for our country.”  South Africa made 152 tackles, double the amount of the
Samoans, who won more than twice as many breakdowns as the
Springboks.  Two-time champion  Australia  faces Russia in the first of
tomorrow’s three games needing a bonus-point victory to
guarantee a quarterfinal spot.  France  can advance to the last
eight as the Pool A runner-up if it gets at least one
competition point against Tonga, and  England  can secure top spot
in Pool B by defeating  Scotland  in the final match.  There are four games scheduled Oct. 2, when Ireland has the
chance to finish atop Pool C by beating Italy in the last of the
40 pool matches.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 