-- 
S. Korea Ruling Party Head Calls for Flexible North Policy

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 
2011-09-30T08:58:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/south-korea-s-ruling-party-head-visits-complex-in-north-korea.html
South Korea’s ruling party leader
called on President  Lee Myung Bak ’s administration to soften its
stance toward North Korea and seek talks with the communist
neighbor to ease escalated tensions between the civil war foes.  “With my visit today as a turning point, I will try to
switch the policy into a flexible reciprocity,” Hong Joon Pyo,
head of the  Grand National Party , said after returning from his
one-day visit to an industrial complex in the North Korean city
of Gaeseong, according to a statement on the party’s web site.  Lee last month replaced his minister in charge of North
Korean affairs, signaling an easing of policies toward Kim Jong Il’s regime before next year’s South Korean elections.  Hong’s visit may help reduce tensions on the Korean
peninsula, expedite the resumption of six-nation talks aimed at
dismantling  North Korea ’s nuclear program and boost inter-Korean
projects such as a proposed gas pipeline.  Relations between the countries soured last year over
attacks that killed 50 South Koreans. A Russian proposal to
build a natural-gas pipeline through the divided peninsula was
described this month by Hong as a possible turning point for
inter-Korean relations.  The Gaeseong complex, located near the border where more
than 100 South Korean companies have factories using North
Korean labor, is the only project between the countries after
Lee in May 2010 cut off trade with North Korea in retaliation
for the sinking of a warship.  Paradigm Shift  Hong has called for “a paradigm shift” in aid policy
toward North Korea.  “It’s time to make our North Korea policy a bit more
flexible,” he said in a Sept. 7 speech at the National
Assembly.  South Korea ’s government is considering providing free
vaccines against hepatitis B virus for 1.1 million children in
North Korea if inter-Korean relations improve, Newstomato
reported, citing government-related officials it didn’t
identify. The Unification Ministry declined to comment.  Lee rebuffed attempts by North Korea to restart nuclear
talks unconditionally with the U.S.,  China , South Korea,  Russia 
and  Japan . South Korea and North Korea remain technically at war
after their 1950-1953 conflict ended in a cease-fire.  North Korean First Vice Foreign Minister Kim Kye Gwan met
his Russian counterpart Andrey Denisov on September 29 in
Pyongyang to discuss nuclear and other inter-Korean issues,
including one on the six-party talks, according to the North’s
official Korean Central News Agency.  Gas Pipeline  OAO Gazprom this month signed preliminary agreements with
South Korea’s  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  and the North Korean government to
build a pipeline that would carry as much as 10 billion cubic
meters of gas a year across its eastern border to the peninsula.
The Russian gas-export monopoly said it may also supply gas for
North Korean power generation.  Lee called the gas pipeline project a “win-win for
everyone involved” in an interview this month.  He rolled back his predecessor’s “Sunshine Policy” of
engaging with North Korea, arguing that this rewarded the regime
for provocative behavior -- a view echoed by U.S. President
 Barack Obama ’s administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Sim in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  