-- 
South Africa Trade Deficit Narrows as Metal Prices Boost Exports

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-09-30T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/south-africa-trade-deficit-narrows-as-metal-prices-boost-exports.html
South Africa ’s trade gap narrowed
from a six-month high in August as surging metal prices boosted
exports, helping to offset an increase in machinery imports.  The deficit eased to 3.7 billion rand ($458 million) from
3.9 billion rand in July, the South African Revenue Service said
in an e-mailed statement today. The median estimate of eight
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 1.7 billion rand
shortfall.  Higher commodity prices may help to restrict the current
account deficit, the broadest measure of trade in goods and
services, which reached 3.3 percent of gross domestic product in
the second quarter. South Africa relies on foreign investment in
stocks and bonds to help finance the deficit, flows that have
declined since August as investors sold riskier, emerging market
assets.  Gold surged 13 percent last month to a record $1,897.60 an
ounce on Aug. 22, while platinum climbed 3.7 percent. The two
metals account for about a fifth of South African exports,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Exports rose 8 percent to 61 billion rand, more than the
7.2 percent increase that pushed imports to 64.7 billion rand,
the Revenue Service said. Exports benefited from a 36 percent
surge in chemicals and other industrial products. Machinery
imports gained 5 percent and other equipment purchases rose 16
percent, the agency said.  South African exports may come under pressure as growth in
 Europe , which buys about a third of the nation’s manufactured
goods, stalls. South African economic growth slowed in the
second quarter to an annualized 1.3 percent, the lowest level in
about two years as manufacturing and mining output contracted.  Trade figures are often volatile, reflecting the timing of
shipments of commodities such as oil and diamonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  