-- 
Spain to Take Over Three More Lenders, Spends $10.2 Billion

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-09-30T14:15:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/spain-to-take-over-three-more-lenders-spends-10-2-billion-1-.html
The Bank of  Spain  took over three
more lenders after they failed to meet a deadline for new
minimum  capital requirements  set by the government.  Spain’s bank rescue fund, known as FROB, will administer
banks run by CaixaCatalunya, Novacaixagalicia and Unnim, the
regulator said in a  statement  today. The cost of recapitalizing
the three lenders and Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo, a failed
savings bank seized in July, will be 7.55 billion euros ($10.2
billion), the Bank of Spain said.  Today’s takeovers are the culmination of a process that
began in January when Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  announced
plans to make lenders meet new capital requirements or risk
being nationalized as the government sought to stem investor
concern that the cost of bank bailouts to the public coffers.
Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez didn’t
comment today on whether Spanish banks should raise additional
funds in line with proposals from the  International Monetary
Fund  for another round of recapitalization of European lenders.  “I suspect that more recapitalizations will be needed,”
Gonzalo Gomez Bengoechea, an economist at the IESE business
school in Madrid. “The exposure to sovereign debt may be low,
but the real-estate sector increases the uncertainty.”  FROB Control  Spanish lenders have gross holdings of 448 million euros in
Greek sovereign debt and 232 billion euros to Spanish debt,
according to the Bank of Spain. In the three years since the
collapse of Spain’s debt-fueled property boom, lenders have made
provisions of 105 billion euros, the regulator said today.  The  drive  to bolster capital identified a capital shortfall
of 15.2 billion euros across Spain’s banking industry and
spurred lenders that failed to meet the government-set limit to
seek funds through share sales or from private investors. The
final cost of the process was 13.4 billion euros, including the
7.55 billion-euro cost to the FROB and 5.84 billion euros raised
from private investors, the Bank of Spain said today.  The FROB will own 100 percent of Unnim, 93 percent of
Novacaixagalicia and almost 90 percent of CatalunyaCaixa,
Ordonez, the Bank of Spain governor, said in a  Madrid  news
conference. It bought Novacaixagalicia at 12 percent of book
value, CatalunyaCaixa at 9 percent and Unnim for one symbolic
euro, Ordonez said.  ‘Quite Solid’  Two other lenders, the Banco Mare Nostrum group and
Liberbank, are seeking private investment and have a 25-day
extension to complete their recapitalization plans, the
regulator said. They are “quite solid” lenders, Ordonez said.  By requiring a core capital level of only 8 percent for
lenders that raised money by selling stock, the new rules coaxed
Bankia, a merger of seven savings banks led by  Caja Madrid , and
Banca Civica, formed from four savings banks, to raise more than
a combined 3.6 billion euros from initial public offerings in
July.  Meanwhile, Unnim, CatalunyaCaixa, Novacaixagalicia and  Caja
de Ahorros del Mediterraneo (CAM)  have said that their first option
would be to take money made available from the FROB in return
for shares in their banking units.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  