-- 
Sri Lankan Inflation Slows, Boosting Scope to Shield Growth

-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 
2011-09-30T09:59:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/sri-lanka-s-september-consumer-prices-rise-6-4-from-year-ago.html
Sri Lankan inflation slowed in
September to a one-year low, boosting scope to leave  interest
rates  unchanged and shield growth as the global recovery weakens.  Consumer prices in the capital, Colombo, increased 6.4
percent from a year earlier after gaining 7 percent in August,
the Department of Census and Statistics said on its website
today. The median of five estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 6.4 percent advance.  The data signal more room for central bank Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal to leave borrowing costs unchanged for a ninth
month at the policy decision due Oct. 10. Higher food supplies,
and a 0.7 percent rise in Sri Lanka’s rupee against the  U.S.
dollar  in 2011, have helped curb price gains.  “With headline inflation falling, the central bank keen to
support growth and concerns about the outlook for the global
economy increasing, we think that interest rates will be kept on
hold until the end of this year,” Gareth Leather, an economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said before the release.  The Sri Lankan rupee fell 0.2 percent to 110.17 per dollar
as of 3:22 p.m. local time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The benchmark Colombo All-Share Index of stocks
closed up 0.5 percent today.  Cabraal joined officials in Asian economies from Malaysia
to  Taiwan  in leaving rates unchanged this month, as  Europe ’s
debt crisis and a struggling U.S. recovery cloud the outlook for
exports. Sri Lanka’s monetary policy stance is “appropriate”
to support growth and inflationary pressures in the country are
contained, the  International Monetary Fund  said Sept. 7.  The government is aiming for 8.5 percent expansion this
year as the $50 billion economy revives following the end of a
civil war in 2009.  Growth accelerated to 8.2 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, compared with a 7.9 percent
pace in the first quarter. Farming output rose 1.9 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in  Colombo  at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  