-- 
Standard Chartered Sees Funding Pressure in Some Banks, CEO Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-09-30T06:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/standard-chartered-sees-funding-pressure-in-some-banks-ceo-says.html
Standard Chartered Plc (2888) , the U.K.’s
second-largest bank by market value, sees funding pressure
globally in some banks amid the euro debt crisis, Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Sands  told reporters in Hong Kong today.  “It’s clear that some banks are finding it more difficult
to access funding and liquidity,” he said. “That will have an
impact on the cost and availability of credit. How much of an
impact will vary a lot by country and by currency.”  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and Societe Generale SA,  France ’s two
largest banks, are trimming about 300 billion euros ($406
billion) off their balance sheets to help rebuild market
confidence in their capital strength. The two lenders have been
forced to act after concerns about their sovereign debt holdings
made funds reluctant to lend to them, crimping liquidity options.  “If you look at the fact that there has been basically no
unsecured debt issuance in  Europe  by banks since roughly the end
of May, that does put pressure on those banks that are dependent
on regular unsecured issuance,” Sands said. “They will have
funding challenges. It will be more difficult for them to
maintain the pace of lending.”  Europe’s deepening debt crisis is also slowing economic
growth in  Asia  and causing short-term fluctuations in the
region’s flow of funds, the CEO said.  “There has been a degree of some repatriation of western
investments going back, which is affecting the  currency market 
and markets in Asia,” Sands said. “However, I think the
fundamental attraction of investing in the growth opportunities
across Asia will remain robust.”  Hiring Continues  London-based  Standard Chartered , which earns most of its
profit in Asia, said it will continue to hire next year and
beyond. The lender has said it plans to hire a net 1,000 people
this year, even as U.K. rivals announce job cuts. HSBC Holdings
Plc said it would eliminate 30,000 posts by the end of 2013,
while Barclays Plc said it planned to cut 3,000 employees this
year as the banks seek to improve profitability and prepare for
stricter capital rules.  “We are supportive of much of the regulatory changes,”
Sands said. “However, there is a profusion of different
versions of all the regulations and they sort of overlap and
interact with each other in a very complex way.”  Britain’s government will force lenders to insulate their
consumer and investment banking units by 2019 as Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  tries to shield customers and
taxpayers from another financial crisis.  The Independent Commission on Banking on Sept. 12 also
recommended that ringfenced banks hold more capital than
required by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. The
Basel III rules require banks to hold 7 percent of risk-weighted
assets in core capital, and the biggest lenders, so-called
systemically important financial institutions, to hold as much
as a further 2.5 percentage points in additional capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  