-- 
State Department Read “Riot Act” to Syrian Envoy Over Attack

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-30T21:15:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/state-department-read-riot-act-to-syrian-envoy-over-attack.html
Syria’s ambassador to the U.S. was
summoned to the State Department last night and read the “riot
act” over the attack earlier in the day in Damascus on the U.S.
Ambassador  Robert Ford .  Syrian Ambassador Imad Moustapha was “read the riot act
about this incident” by Assistant Secretary of State for Near
Eastern Affairs  Jeffrey Feltman , State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland  told reporters in  Washington  today.  “He was reminded that Ambassador Ford is the personal
representative of the president and that an attack on Ford is an
attack on the  United States ,” Nuland said. She said the Syrian
government’s failure to prevent the harassment of Ford by a
“Syrian rent-a-mob” was “incomprehensible.”  Syrian security forces today killed at least 18 anti-
government protesters and carried out wide-scale arrests as
demonstrators took to the streets after Friday prayers to demand
that President Bashar al-Assad step down.  The killings occurred in Hama, Homs and in the suburbs of
Damascus, and hundreds of demonstrators were arrested throughout
the country today, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization
for Human Rights, said by phone today. Gunfire was heard in the
capital’s suburbs of Harasta, Douma and Barzeh, and some
protesters were wounded, he said.  Security Checkpoints  Security forces set up checkpoints and conducted searches
starting late yesterday at the entrances of the three Damascus
suburbs in anticipation of rallies, Merhi said. Thousands of
people have regularly staged demonstrations after Friday prayers
since the uprising started in March.  The Syrian protests are part of the wave of unrest across
the  Middle East  and North Africa that has unseated governments
in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya .  Assad’s crackdown has left more than 3,600 civilians dead,
according to Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human
Rights in Syria. About 30,000 people have been detained and
13,000 are still being held, Qurabi and Merhi said. About 700
members of the state security forces have been killed in the
uprising, according to the government.  Government forces killed at least 14 protesters yesterday
in the central towns of Rastan and Talbiseh near the governorate
of Homs and the northern province of Idlib, Merhi said. There
were reports of clashes between security forces and army
defectors in Rastan, he said.  Army Defectors  “There are elements that have split from the army and they
have taken it upon themselves to protect those demonstrating,”
former judge and human-rights activist Haitham al-Maleh said
today in an interview with Al-Arabiya television. “The regime’s
strategy is to extract all the youth from the streets, however
the revolution is continuing.”  European nations on the United Nations  Security Council 
yesterday circulated a fourth version of their draft resolution
in a continuing bid to win Russia’s support. It deletes the word
“sanctions,” instead threatening to adopt “targeted
measures” in the event that  Syria ’s government doesn’t halt
attacks on protesters. The text also drops a reference to
possible referral of alleged crimes to the  International
Criminal Court  and adds a line that “urges all sides to reject
violence and extremism.”  Russia opposes any mention of sanctions, UN ambassador
Vitaly Churkin told reporters yesterday.  Attack on Ambassador  Ford, who has been a critic of Assad, escaped a violent mob
of government supporters yesterday while visiting opposition
lawyer Hasan Abdul-Azim at his office in Damascus.  Ford’s car was pelted with rocks, eggs, tomatoes and
sticks.  “Protesters threw concrete blocks at the windows and hit
the cars with iron bars,” Ford wrote on the embassy’s  Facebook 
page today. “One person jumped on the hood of the car, tried to
kick in the windshield and then jumped on the roof.”  “The mob also tried to break through Abdul-Azim’s office
door,” he wrote. “Is that peaceful? I’d call it intolerant if
not worse.”  The U.S.government finds it“incomprehensible that Syrian
security authorities are somehow able to arrive on the scene of
peaceful opportunity demonstrations in Damascus in a matter of
minutes, and yet it took them almost two hours to come to the
aid of Ambassador Ford,” Nuland said today.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  yesterday condemned the
attack on Ford in the “strongest terms.”  “This attempt to intimidate our diplomats through violence
is wholly unjustified,” Clinton said in remarks to reporters in
Washington. The U.S. is “demanding” that Syria “take every
possible step to protect our diplomats according to their
obligations under international law,” she said.  The latest European draft resolution at the UN contains a
newly added paragraph that “strongly condemns attacks on
diplomatic personnel.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  