-- 
Swiss Lawmakers Approve Curbing Risks at UBS, Credit Suisse

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-09-30T08:49:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/swiss-lawmakers-approve-curbing-risks-at-ubs-credit-suisse.html
Swiss lawmakers approved proposals
to curb risk-taking at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the
country’s biggest banks.  Swiss policy makers are running ahead of counterparts in
the U.S. and  Europe  to make sure UBS and rival Credit Suisse cut
risks and hoard capital to avert the type of banking collapse
that hobbled Iceland’s economy. Both chambers of Parliament
today approved the legislation after a joint commission
yesterday resolved differences on taxing so-called contingent
convertible bonds, which will be used as capital buffers.  “This bill was highly overdue,” said Susanne Leutenegger
Oberholzer, a lawmaker from the  Social Democratic Party . “We
must make sure that  Switzerland  never again sees a near failure
like that of UBS.”  Lawmakers in the Swiss capital, Bern, backed proposals to
limit risk-taking after UBS said this month it may be
unprofitable in the third quarter after a $2.3 billion loss from
unauthorized trading at its investment bank. The loss, less than
two months after former Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel 
said Switzerland’s biggest bank had “one of the best” risk-
management units in the industry, exposed flaws in its controls.  UBS and Credit Suisse will have to hold capital equal to at
least 19 percent of assets, weighted according to risk, by 2019,
according to the bill. That’s almost double the percentage
proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision for banks
deemed too big to fail.  Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said this
month that making banks safer will “restore confidence” in
Switzerland as a financial center.  Breakup Rejected  A Swiss government-appointed panel last year rejected
proposals to break up the two Zurich-based banks or directly
limit their size and activities.  The Swiss government’s efforts come amid global attempts to
strengthen banks’ balance sheets. The  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  in June said systemically important banks must hold
as much as 2.5 percentage points as a surcharge. In the U.K., an
independent commission this month recommended that banks build
fire breaks between their consumer and investment banks.  Switzerland rescued UBS in 2008, injecting 6 billion francs
and helping the bank spin off $39 billion of toxic assets into a
central bank fund. Credit Suisse declined government assistance.  UBS and Credit Suisse will have to meet higher liquidity
requirements, according to the government proposals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at   kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  