-- 
Swiss Stocks Slide, Posting Worst Quarterly Loss Since June 2010

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-09-30T16:02:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/swiss-stocks-retreat-on-economic-data-swatch-richemont-slide.html
Swiss stocks declined, posting
their biggest quarterly in more than a year, as reports on
Chinese manufacturing and German retail sales added to concern
the global economy is slowing.  Watchmakers led losses as  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA tumbled more than 5 percent.  Panalpina
Welttransport Holding AG (PWTN) , the freight-forwarding company,
slumped 6.1 percent as Morgan Stanley downgraded the stock.
 Tecan Group AG (TECN) , a maker of  laboratory equipment , plunged the
most in seven weeks.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, dropped 1.4 percent to 5,531.74 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, trimming its biggest weekly gain
in five weeks to 4.4 percent. The SMI has tumbled 11 percent
since June, the biggest quarterly decline since June 2010, as
the global recovery showed signs of faltering and the Greek debt
crisis eluded resolution. The broader Swiss Performance Index
lost 1.5 percent today.  “Investors are clearly on standby, assessing the
likelihood of a double-dip recession and also the situation in
the  euro zone ,” said Jean-Maurice Ladure, head of investment
strategy at RBS Coutts Bank Ltd. in Zurich. “To make further
progress, you will need improvement in the fundamentals, either
from the economic newsflow, where data should stop surprising on
the downside, but more likely from policy-maker interventions.”  China  Economy  In China, the reading of 49.9 for the September purchasing
managers’ index, released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics today, was unchanged from August and compared with a
preliminary 49.4 figure published last week. The gauge has been
below 50, the level that separates expansion from contraction,
for eight months through March 2009.  A report from  Germany  showed that retail sales declined the
most in more than four years in August. Sales, adjusted for
inflation and seasonal swings, slumped 2.9 from July, when they
had risen 0.3 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said. That’s the biggest drop since May 2007.
Economists had forecast a 0.5 percent drop, according to the
median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  European inflation unexpectedly accelerated to the fastest
in almost three years. The euro-area inflation rate jumped to 3
percent this month from 2.5 percent in August, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said. That’s the biggest
annual increase in consumer prices since October 2008.  KOF Indicator  A monthly gauge that aims to predict the Swiss economy’s
direction about six months ahead dropped to 1.21 this month from
1.61 in August, the  KOF Swiss Economic Institute  in Zurich said
today. That’s the lowest since September 2009. Economists had
forecast a drop to 1.3, the median of 11 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  Swatch, the world’s largest watchmaker, fell 7 percent to
302.30 Swiss francs and Richemont retreated 5.2 percent to 40.95
francs. Both stocks had the biggest two-day drops since November
2008.  Panalpina slumped 6.1 percent to 78.05 francs, the most in
almost four weeks, as Morgan Stanley analysts including Menno Sanderse cut the company’s shares to “underweight” from
“equal weight.”  Banks Decline  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland biggest
banks, slipped 6.7 percent to 10.54 francs and 3.9 percent to 24
francs, respectively. A gauge of European banks was the second-
worst performer of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe
600 Index.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the 121-year-old wealth manager,
fell 2.9 percent to 30.70 francs after saying it may cut more
than 150 jobs unless the market picks up.  “We’ve already trimmed a lot of the fat elsewhere, so the
next round will involve personnel cuts,” spokesman Jan Vonder Muehll said in an interview with Bloomberg News today, adding
there is no target for cutting positions. “It could be less
than 150, it could me more.”  Tecan Group slumped 6.8 percent to 65.25 francs, the
biggest drop in seven weeks, after saying a project to develop a
diagnostics instrument has been delayed, leading to higher
costs.  Alpiq Holding AG (ALPH) , a Swiss energy company, gained 1.7
percent to 198.30 francs after Chief Executive Officer Giovanni
Leonardi resigned. Chairman Hans Schweickardt will replace him
on an interim basis.  “A smooth transition period is guaranteed and we clearly
welcome his nomination,” Andreas Escher, an analyst at Vontobel
Holding AG wrote in a note to clients today. “Although today’s
news flow came somewhat as a surprise, we rate the change rather
positive as a younger generation could bring fresh dynamics to
the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  