-- 
GlaxoSmithKline’s Lupus Drug Rejected by U.K. Regulator

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-09-30T12:33:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/u-k-s-nice-unable-to-recommend-benlysta-for-treating-lupus.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Human
Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI) ’s Benlysta medicine was rejected by the
U.K.’s health-cost agency as a treatment for the auto-immune
disease lupus.  Data gathered by the agency failed to convince it that
Benlysta was “value for money” compared with standard care,
the  National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence  said
in a statement today announcing the preliminary decision. The
agency said it will hold consultations on Benlysta until Oct. 21
and is open to comments.  The drug, an intravenous product also known as belimumab,
won the backing of a European Union advisory panel in May as an
add-on to standard therapy in adult patients suffering from
systemic lupus erythematosus, the most common form of the
disorder. It’s the first treatment designed specifically for
 lupus , a condition that affects about 5 million people.  “The initial decision is very disappointing for patients
living with lupus who currently have very limited treatment
options,” Simon Jose, general manager for London-based Glaxo in
the U.K., said in an e-mailed statement today. “We will do
everything we can to change NICE’s mind.”  Stricter on Medicines  Health-cost agencies throughout  Europe  are getting stricter
on what medicines they back for reimbursement as governments
rein in spending to reduce debt.  “NICE is one of the toughest health-cost agencies out
there and it often rejects new products,” Philippe Lanone, an
analyst at Natixis Securities in Paris, said in a telephone
interview. “Benlysta had no reimbursement problems in other
countries. NICE’s decision won’t have consequences on the
product’s sales prospects.”  Lanone, who has a “neutral” recommendation on Glaxo
shares, expects Benlysta to garner $2.6 billion in annual sales
by 2017 for the U.K. company and Rockville, Maryland-based Human
Genome.  Glaxo had previously agreed to a patient access program
with the U.K. Department of Health, offering a discount on
Benlysta’s list price. The treatment costs 121.50 pounds ($189)
to 405 pounds a vial depending on the dose, NICE said.  “The cost per year of improved health is very high,”
Carole Longson, a director at NICE, said in today’s statement.  NICE said it took into account opinions of people with
lupus and clinical specialists.  About 15,000 people in England and  Wales  suffer from
systemic lupus erythematosus, with about 90 percent of the cases
occurring in women, NICE said. Benlysta is already sold in the
U.S.,  Germany , Denmark,  Sweden , Austria,  Norway , Finland and
 Canada , according to Glaxo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  