-- 
U.K. Stocks Drop, Trimming Weekly Gain; Burberry, Kazakhmys, Intertek Fall

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-09-30T16:20:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/u-k-stocks-drop-trimming-weekly-gain-burberry-kazakhmys-intertek-fall.html
U.K. stocks declined, with the
benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  posting its biggest quarterly drop
since 2002, after reports on Chinese manufacturing and German
retail sales added to evidence that the economy is faltering.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  and  Intertek Group
Plc (ITRK) , which all make at least 30 percent of their revenue in
Asia, led the drop.  BP Plc (BP/)  fell after a person with knowledge of
the matter said the company’s $7.1 billion deal to sell Pan
American Energy LLC is at risk of collapse.  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s
largest advertising company, declined 4.5 percent as analysts
downgraded the shares.  The benchmark FTSE 100 Index retreated 68.36, or 1.3
percent, to 5,128.48 in  London , for a 4.9 percent decline this
month. The index has risen 1.2 percent this week as policy
makers increased efforts to contain the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis. The gauge still posted a 14 percent loss this quarter
amid concern that Greece’s debt woes will spread to other
countries in the region and that the economy is stalling.  “Luxury goods manufacturers are feeling the pinch on
concerns over a Chinese slowdown,” Ben Critchley, market
strategist at IG Index in London, wrote. “We have seen the FTSE
100 steadily edge its way lower. This market still feels like
one that is in a holding pattern waiting for the next stage of
the European drama to unfold.”  The broader FTSE All-Share Index decreased 1.3 percent
today and Ireland’s ISEQ Index slipped 0.1 percent.  Chinese Economy  In China, the reading of 49.9 for the September purchasing
managers’ index, released by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit
Economics today, was unchanged from August and compared with a
preliminary 49.4 figure published last week. The gauge was below
50, the level that separates expansion from contraction, for
eight months through March 2009.  German retail sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal
swings, slumped 2.9 from July, when they rose 0.3 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.  Standard Chartered , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by
market value, lost 5.2 percent to 1,287 pence. The lender makes
57 percent of its revenue from the Asia Pacific, according to
Bloomberg data.  Copper producer Kazakhmys, which derives 48 percent of its
revenue from China, declined 4.9 percent to 793 pence.  Intertek Drops  Intertek, which offers product inspection and certification
services, fell 9.5 percent to 1,855 pence. The company makes 38
percent of its revenue in Asia, according to Bloomberg data.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods maker,
dropped 2.3 percent to 1,174 pence. The company gets about 33
percent of its sales in the Asia Pacific region, Bloomberg data
show.  HSBC Holdings Plc, a bank that gets about 30 percent of
revenue from  Hong Kong  and the rest of the Asia Pacific, slid
3.1 percent to 496.9 pence.  BP slipped 0.8 percent to 388.50 pence, after erasing gains
of as much as 0.8 percent earlier. BP’s $7.1 billion deal to
sell Argentine crude producer Pan American Energy is at risk of
collapse, jeopardizing China’s biggest energy acquisition this
year, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  BP’s agreement to sell its 60 percent stake to partner
Bridas Corp., a company owned by Chinese oil producer Cnooc Ltd.
and  Argentina ’s billionaire Bulgheroni family, has hit
opposition from politicians and may not complete when the accord
expires in November, the person said, declining to be identified
as the details are private.  Seeking Approvals  “Deals of this scale take time to finalize with
competition authorities,” London-based BP spokesman  Robert Wine 
said. “We are working with the other shareholders in PAE to
secure competition approvals and complete the deal. We can
confirm the deal has not yet closed as Argentine competition
approvals remain outstanding, but we remain optimistic that
these approvals will be granted in due course.”  WPP slipped 4.5 percent to 601 pence as the stock was cut
to “reduce” from “neutral” at Natixis.  RPC Group Plc (RPC)  jumped 3.1 percent to 337 pence. The British
maker of plastic containers for consumer goods said revenue in
the first half of its financial year is forecast to be
“significantly higher” compared with the same period a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  