-- 
U.S. Regulators Eased TARP Repayment Terms for Large Bank Exits

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-09-30T15:37:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/u-s-regulators-eased-tarp-repayment-terms-for-large-bank-exits.html
The  U.S. Treasury Department  and
bank regulators relaxed terms to let large banks exit the
Troubled Asset Relief Program in 2009, according to a report
issued today by an internal watchdog.  Regulators also used ad hoc and inconsistent methods, the
Special Inspector General’s report said. The regulators largely
ignored the Federal Reserve requirements for repayment upon
issuing $1 in new common equity for every $2 in TARP funds
repaid, the report said.  “By not waiting until the banks were in a position to meet
the 1-for-2 provision entirely with common stock, there was
arguably a missed opportunity to further strengthen the quality
of each institution’s capital base to protect against future
losses without selling sources of revenue,” the special
inspector general wrote.  In 2009, large banks began quickly exiting TARP out of
concern over executive compensation restrictions and fear of
being the last large TARP bank, the report said. They also were
persistent and largely successful in efforts to resist
regulatory demands for issuing common stock to exit, according
to the special inspector general.  The report found that the Treasury, through hosting
meetings and commenting on individual TARP recipient’s repayment
proposals, encouraged banks in the TARP program to expedite
repayment. In one instance, Treasury even urged  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  to speed up its repayment plan.  “Treasury’s involvement in the TARP exit proposal was
motivated by a fundamental belief that stabilizing our financial
system ultimately depended upon the nation’s largest financial
institutions being able to raise private capital again,” said
Tim Massad, Treasury assistant secretary for financial
stability, wrote in a letter to the special inspector general.
“It was for this reason that Treasury encouraged firms to raise
private capital and to repay the taxpayers’ investments.”  The report comes as large banks are again being required by
new Basel III rules to raise higher capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  