-- 
U.S. Tells Judge It’s Appealing Ruling Allowing Alabama Immigration Law

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-09-30T22:33:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/u-s-tells-judge-it-s-appealing-ruling-allowing-alabama-immigration-law.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  said it
will appeal the decision by a judge in Birmingham, Alabama, that
allowed the state to enforce parts of an immigration law opposed
by the federal government.  “Under the Constitution, immigration, no less than other
aspects of the nation’s foreign relations and foreign commerce,
requires uniform regulation, and cannot be subject to a
patchwork of state measures,” Justice Department lawyers said
today in a request to put U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn’s ruling on hold while it’s under review by the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in Atlanta.  Blackburn said in her Sept. 28 decision that under the law,
state police can make “a reasonable attempt” to determine the
immigration status of a person otherwise detained or arrested,
when there’s reasonable suspicion to inquire about that status.  Nothing in the federal Immigration and Nationality Act
“expressly preempts states from legislating on the issue of
verification of an individual’s citizenship and immigration
status,” Blackburn said in her 115-page ruling.  Alabama  Governor Robert Bentley, a first-term Republican,
signed the immigration measure into law on June 9. After the
U.S. government, church leaders and civil rights groups sued to
block it, Blackburn issued a provisional order barring its
enforcement on Aug. 29. Bentley called the ruling upholding
parts of the law “a victory for Alabama.”  The law, the Beason-Hammon Alabama Taxpayer and Citizen
Protection Act, includes provisions requiring public schools to
collect data on the enrollment of children of unlawful residents
and criminalizing the failure of illegal immigrants to complete
or carry alien registration documents.  Blackburn’s ruling allowed Alabama to enforce the part of
the law that makes failure to carry documentation a misdemeanor,
as well as the school data portion of the law and a provision
enabling police to take drivers arrested without a valid license
before a magistrate for determination of their citizenship.  Unlicensed drivers found to be in the U.S. illegally can
then be detained for prosecution or turned over to federal
immigration agents.  Representatives of Bentley didn’t immediately return a call
to the governor’s office today for comment.  The case is U.S. v. Bentley, 5:11-cv-2746, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 