-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall, Extending Biggest Quarterly Drop Since 2008

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-09-30T20:44:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/u-s-stock-futures-decline-on-concern-worldwide-economic-growth-is-slowing.html
U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its biggest quarterly drop since
2008, after reports from China and  Germany  fueled concerns the
global economy is slowing.  All 10 groups in the  S&P 500  slumped as companies most-tied
to economic growth had the biggest declines. Alcoa Inc. fell 4.9
percent, while  General Electric Co. (GE)  lost 4 percent.  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)  slid 14 percent for the biggest drop in the S&P
500 after reporting an unexpected loss on weak demand for
personal computers.  Ingersoll-Rand Plc (IR)  retreated 12 percent
after lowering its profit forecast.  The S&P 500 retreated 2.5 percent to 1,131.42 at 4 p.m. New
York time, wiping out its weekly advance as the index extended
losses in the last hour of trading. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  lost 240.6 points, or 2.2 percent, to 10,913.38 today,
while climbing 1.3 percent for the week.  “It’s an accumulation of worries that keep dragging the
market down,”  John Carey , a Boston-based  money manager  at
Pioneer Investments, said in a telephone interview. The firm
oversees about $250 billion. “The economic news continues to be
mixed and there’s still worry about the European debt situation
and concern about our own political impasse in  Washington .” He
said, “News like that definitely rings alarm bells for people
and makes them more cautious about equities.”  The S&P 500 yesterday rose 0.8 percent as lower-than-
estimated claims for  unemployment benefits  helped offset losses
in consumer and technology shares. The index dropped for five
consecutive months, the longest falling streak since March 2008.
The U.S. equity gauge tumbled 14 percent this quarter, the
biggest three-month drop since December 2008, and is down 10
percent for the year.  Global Recession  Investors dumped equities in the third quarter as concern
increased that  Europe ’s debt crisis will trigger a global
recession and the  Federal Reserve  said there are “significant
downside risks” to the  U.S. economy . The S&P 500 slumped as
much as 18 percent from its high in April, as European finance
chiefs clashed over how to assist  Greece  and American lawmakers
struggled to agree on raising the federal government’s debt
limit. The benchmark equity index fell to a low of 1,119.46 on
Aug. 8 after S&P cut the country’s credit rating.  “The U.S. economy is tipping into a new recession,” said
the Economic Cycle Research Institute’s Lakshman Achuthan,
citing leading indicators. “You have wildfire among the leading
indicators across the board. Non-financial services plunging,
manufacturing plunging, exports plunging. That is such a deadly
combination,” Achuthan, the group’s chief operations officer in
 New York , said in a radio interview today on “Bloomberg
Surveillance.”  Equities fell today as a report showed consumer spending in
the U.S. slowed last month. Purchases rose 0.2 percent after a
revised 0.7 percent gain in July. Incomes fell 0.1 percent,
missing economists’ projection of a 0.1 percent increase.  Consumer Confidence  Stocks pared declines as confidence among U.S. consumers
rose in September from the lowest level since November 2008. The
University of Michigan’s consumer confidence index for the month
was 59.4, up from a preliminary reading issued two weeks ago of
57.8 and from 55.7 in August. The Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc.’s business barometer rose to 60.4 this
month from 56.5 in August.  “It seems like cautious trading right now with few new
longs or shorts on quarter end,”  Larry Peruzzi , senior equity
trader at Cabrera Capital Markets Inc. in Boston, wrote in an e-
mail. “We saw two reports, the Michigan confidence report and
the Chicago PMI, come in better than both estimates and previous
month’s reading. This helped slow the bleeding but it does feel
like a nervous market.”  GE, Halliburton  Industrial, commodity and financial companies lost at least
3.2 percent each for the biggest drops among 10 S&P 500 groups.
Alcoa fell 4.9 percent to $9.57. General Electric lost 4 percent
to $15.22. Halliburton Co. dropped 5.4 percent to $30.52, after
the price of oil capped its biggest quarterly loss since the
2008 financial crisis.  American Express Co. (AXP)  fell 3.9 percent to $44.90.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  declined 4.1 percent to $30.12. Financial companies
in the S&P 500 have sunk 23 percent this quarter.  Global equities fell today after a report showed a gauge of
Chinese manufacturing shrank for a third month, the longest
contraction since 2009, as measures of new orders and export
demand declined. The reading of 49.9 for the September
purchasing managers’ index, released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics today, was unchanged from August and compared
with a preliminary 49.4 figure published last week.  German Sales  In Germany, retail sales declined the most in more than
four years in August as concerns about the economic impact of
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis sapped consumers’ willingness to
spend. European inflation unexpectedly accelerated to the
fastest in almost three years. The euro-area inflation rate
jumped to 3 percent this month from 2.5 percent in August.  “Investors are hypersensitive to any data at the moment,”
 Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based fund manager at
Federated Investors Inc., which oversees about $350 billion,
said in a telephone interview. “Ordinary announcements have
heightened significance in an environment where investors are
watching for potential shifts in the trajectories of the
domestic and global economies.”  Two industries that have beaten the S&P 500 in the third
quarter, computer and software makers as well as companies
reliant on discretionary  consumer spending , had the biggest
declines yesterday and extended losses today. The S&P 500
Information Technology Index lost 2.8 percent, bringing its
three-day drop to 4.6 percent. Discretionary companies erased
2.8 percent and fell 5.3 percent in the last three days.  Ingersoll, Micron  Micron Technology slid 14 percent to $5.04, the biggest
loss in the S&P 500. The largest U.S. maker of computer-memory
chips reported an unexpected loss of 14 cents a share for the
fourth quarter on weak demand for personal computers. Analysts
projected a profit of 2 cents a share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Ingersoll-Rand declined 12 percent to $28.09, the third-
biggest drop in the S&P 500. The company that makes products
such as Club Car golf cars and Schlage locks forecast third-
quarter earnings to be no more than 80 cents a share, below an
earlier prediction of at least 85 cents and missing the average
analyst estimate of 92 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  