-- 
U.S. Tipping Into Another Recession, Achuthan Says

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-09-30T13:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/u-s-is-heading-toward-another-recession-ecri-s-achuthan-says-tom-keene.html
The world’s largest economy is
showing signs of slumping, said the Economic Cycle Research
Institute’s Lakshman Achuthan, citing leading indicators.  “The  U.S. economy  is tipping into a new recession,”
Achuthan, the group’s chief operations officer in New York,
said in a radio interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “You have wildfire among the
leading indicators across the board. Non-financial services
plunging, manufacturing plunging, exports plunging. That is such
a deadly combination.”  The  Federal Reserve ’s efforts to support the economy,
including holding its benchmark rate at virtually zero since
December 2008 and expanding its balance sheet to a record
$2.88 trillion -- have done little to reduce unemployment that
has hovered around 9 percent since April 2009 or to revive the
housing market.  The U.S. economy grew at a 1.3 percent pace in the second
quarter after a 0.4 percent expansion in the first three months
of the year, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. It
earlier estimated that gross domestic product grew 1 percent
from April through June.  Purchases of new houses fell in August to a six-month low
as the biggest drop in prices in two years failed to lure buyers
away from even less expensive distressed properties. Sales
dropped 2.3 percent to a 295,000 annual pace, figures from the
Commerce Department showed earlier this week.  “We at least have a couple of quarters of worsening
economy in front of us,” Achuthan said. “So if you think this
is a bad economy, you haven’t seen anything yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  