-- 
U.S. Recession Risk Rises on April Oil Price Jump: Chart of Day

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-30T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/u-s-recession-risk-rises-on-april-oil-price-jump-chart-of-day.html
A spike in  oil prices  in April,
which came amid concern that unrest in  Libya  would spread to
other oil-producing countries in the region, has increased the
odds of a U.S. recession.  THE CHART OF THE DAY shows that 10 of the last 11 U.S.
recessions were preceded by jumps in oil prices, at least four
of which were associated with Middle East conflicts and
embargoes by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries:
the OPEC oil embargo of 1973-74, the Iranian revolution of 1978-
79, the beginning of the Iran-Iraq War in 1980, and the first
Persian Gulf War in 1990.  “The probability of a recession has increased to about
50/50 in the U.S. - we were not even close to this level a year
ago,” said  James Hamilton , a professor at the  University of
California  and Research Associate with the  National Bureau of
Economic Research , the official arbiter of U.S. recessions.  Historically, the weakest economic growth comes three to
four quarters after oil prices rise, meaning the fourth quarter
of 2011 and the first quarter of 2012 could be the slowest,
Hamilton said.  The disruptions in April affected a relatively small amount
of production, and the price of West Texas Intermediate crude
oil fell short of the $145-per-barrel level seen during the
previous slump in 2008, Hamilton noted, so a double-dip is not a
certainty. “It would take another, additional shock to put the
economy back into a recession,” he said. “Unfortunately,
developments in the European financial sector could turn out to
add a significant burden to the world economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexandre Tanzi at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net  