-- 
U.S. Economic Clout May Sink Palestinian Membership Quest at UN Council

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-30T17:09:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/u-s-economic-clout-may-sink-palestinian-membership-quest-at-un-council.html
Economics and political expediency
may trump historical connections to determine whether two swing
votes on the  United Nations Security Council , Nigeria and Gabon,
back the Palestinians’ bid for membership.  The two African nations were among the more than 100
countries that responded to Yasser Arafat’s 1988 declaration of
independence by recognizing Palestine. This has led Palestinians
to look to them for the ninth vote needed for approval by the
15-member council.  While the Palestinians have dispatched diplomats to the
capitals of both nations to plead their case, they carry neither
the economic heft nor the far-reaching influence of the U.S.,
which is working to block the Palestinians’ UN initiative.  “This is now realpolitik, pure and simple,” said
Calestous Juma, a professor of international development at
Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Security Council  members today met for about 75 minutes on
the Palestinian application. They decided to have a committee of
experts meet several times to examine whether the bid fits the
criteria for membership.  The review process may drag on for weeks or even months
while Mideast Quartet mediating group -- the U.S., European
Union,  Russia  and the UN -- tries to restart direct peace talks
between  Israel  and the Palestinians. Still, a council member may
call for a vote within 24 hours at any time.  U.S. Market  Both African nations have reasons to disappoint the
Palestinians.  “Their market is the U.S., so why would they want to spoil
that relationship?” said Juma.  Palestinian Foreign Minister Riad Malki told reporters
yesterday that they have secured eight votes, and that they are
lobbying for more support for their bid for UN membership.
Approval requires nine votes, though passage would be blocked by
a promised U.S. veto.  The stakes are also high for the U.S., keen to avoid
further fallout from having to wield its veto. Such action might
enrage an Arab population already disappointed by President
Barack Obama’s refusal to endorse the Palestinian quest for
statehood.  “The Americans are desperate not to have it go to a
vote,” said  Robert Danin  of the Council on Foreign Relations
and a former aide to Mideast Quartet envoy Tony Blair, the
former U.K. prime minister. “Having to veto is the nightmare
scenario for them.”  Obama, Clinton Lobby  Obama and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  pressed their
opposition to the Palestinian vote when they met with Nigerian
President Goodluck Jonathan last week in  New York . Clinton
repeated the message yesterday in talks with Nigerian Foreign
Minister Olugbenga Ashiru in  Washington .  “We have certainly made it clear to all of our friends
that we want to see a return” to Israeli-Palestinian
negotiations, Clinton said, standing alongside Ashiru.
“Anything which is done which disrupts that or detours that is
a postponement of the outcome we are all seeking.”  Nigeria  has multifaceted ties with the U.S. Last year,
Jonathan got Obama administration backing when he broke an
unwritten rule that leadership of the country had to rotate back
to a Muslim.  Africa ’s most populous country is roughly split
between a mainly Muslim north and a predominantly Christian
south.  Domestic Matters  Moreover, the U.S. and Israel have offered him counter-
terrorism assistance to quell a surge in attacks by Islamic
militants, which has become his foremost domestic priority after
the Aug. 26 suicide car-bomb attack on a UN compound in Abuja
killed 23 people.  Nigeria received $632 million in U.S. aid this year, making
it the  second-biggest  recipient in sub-Saharan Africa after
 Kenya .  As Africa’s top oil producer, Nigeria supplies 8 percent of
U.S. oil imports. U.S. imports from Nigeria totaled $30.5
billion in 2010, up 60 percent, and exports to Nigeria -- mainly
vehicles, wheat and machinery -- totaled $4 billion, up 10
percent, according to the Office of the U.S. Trade
Representative.  During last week’s General Assembly debate, when the
Palestinian situation took center stage, Jonathan used his
address to world leaders to welcome South Sudan as the UN’s
193rd member and didn’t mention the Palestinian issue.  ‘Not Twistable’  Nigeria, which takes over the rotating Security Council
presidency from Lebanon in October, has indicated its
neutrality.  “Our arms are not twistable,” Nigeria’s Ambassador Joy Ogwu said in New York yesterday. “Every nation has its national
position on this issue, on principle.”  Gabon  is seated on the Security Council for the first time,
giving it rare influence.  For Gabonese President Ali Bongo Ondimba, whose first wife
was American, cultivating ties with the U.S. has been a policy
cornerstone since taking over power in 2009 following the death
of his father, who was Africa’s longest-serving dictator.  Obama met with Ondimba in the White House three months ago,
an Oval Office session the Gabonese leader called an
“unqualified success.” While his father had only visited the
White House twice in 41 years in power, most recently in 2004
under President  George W. Bush , the new 52-year-old leader
wasted no time traveling to the U.S. Last year, he met with
Clinton in Washington.  Oil Exports  Gabon’s exports to the U.S., almost entirely oil, increased
80 percent to $2.2 billion last year, according to the Office of
the U.S. Trade Representative. U.S. exports to Gabon, mainly
machinery, totaled $243 million in 2010, up 42 percent.  In May 2009, the U.S. dispatched a Navy ship to help train
Gabonese naval officers in maritime security.  Other Security Council members also will weigh economics
and history.  In the case of  Colombia , Israel and the U.S. are among the
government’s top weapons suppliers in its fight against the
drug-fueled FARC,  Latin America ’s biggest and oldest insurgency.
Israeli advisers also assisted in the July 2008 rescue of 15
hostages including politician Ingrid Betancourt.  Larry Birns, director of the Council on Hemispheric Affairs
in Washington, a research group, said the Colombians would be
doing the Americans and Israelis a “huge favor” by staying
neutral.  Trade Accord  Colombia has a pending free-trade agreement with the U.S.
that has been stalled since 2008. Colombian Finance Minister
Juan Carlos Echeverry said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday that the U.S. would be making the “worst
mistake” by not honoring a free trade agreement with the Latin
American nation.  The U.S. has similar agreements already in force with 17
nations, including Mexico and Chile.  Unlike  Brazil , the only other Latin American country in the
Security Council, Colombia has set itself apart from its
neighbors in the region and withheld recognition of  Palestine .  Bosnia, another first-timer on the Security Council,
recognized Palestine in 1992 when it also declared its own
independence before plunging into three-year war. Its position
today is complicated by the divisions along ethnic and religious
lines. Bosnia’s Muslims and Catholic Croats tend to side with
the Palestinians while the Serbs support Israel.  The U.S. also has close ties to Bosnia given its
instrumental role in ending the 1992-1995 war there, which
culminated in a 20-day negotiating session at the Wright-
Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton,  Ohio . The resulting Dayton
peace accords, as the agreement came to be known, divided Bosnia
into a Muslim-Croat federation and a Serbian republic.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner in United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  