-- 
Ugandan Inflation Surges to 28.3% in September on Food Costs

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-09-30T13:20:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/ugandan-inflation-28-3-in-september-statistics-bureau-says.html
Uganda ’s inflation rate jumped to
the highest level in more than 18 years this month, bringing
pressure to bear on the central bank to raise  interest rates  for
the third time in three months when it meets next week.  Inflation accelerated to 28.3 percent from 21.4 percent in
August, as the cost of food rose 50.4 percent from a year
earlier, the Uganda Bureau of Statistics said in a statement
handed to reporters today in Kampala, the capital. The overall
rate was the highest since January 1993, while inflation rose
6.8 percent in the month, it said.  “We should see the central bank responding to this level of
inflation by increasing its rate,” Augustus Nuwagaba, managing
director of REEV Consult International Ltd., said in a phone
interview today.  Uganda’s central bank on Sept. 6 raised its benchmark
lending rate for the second time since it was introduced in July
to rein in inflation and curb a slump in the shilling. The
currency is the world’s second-worst performer this year, after
neighboring  Kenya ’s, having weakened 19 percent since January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bank’s Monetary Policy Committee will meet on Oct. 4 to
decide on where to set interest rates, currently at 16 percent.
The MPC raised borrowing costs by 2 percentage points at its
last meeting and by 1 percentage point in August.  Underlying inflation, which excludes food, fuel,
electricity and metered water, accelerated to 27.5 percent from
20.1 percent last month, the bureau said.  “The main inflation driver remained food inflation,” with
prices of staple foods including green bananas, sugar, potatoes,
cassava, beef, chicken and fish increasing this month, it said.  Uganda, Africa’s second-biggest coffee producer after
 Ethiopia , is on a cusp of an oil boom following finds by U.K.’s
 Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  and its partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 