-- 
Lundin Puts Avaldsnes-Aldous Among Top Five Norway Oil Finds; Shares Jump

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-09-30T09:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/lundin-puts-avaldsnes-aldous-among-top-five-norway-oil-finds-shares-jump.html
Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE)  increased its
estimate of recoverable resources for the North Sea Avaldsnes
prospect, part of a discovery that now ranks among  Norway ’s five
biggest offshore finds.  Lundin, which operates Avaldsnes, raised its estimate for
production license 501 to 800 million to 1.8 billion barrels of
recoverable oil, according to a statement today. The results
from Statoil ASA’s discovery well at Aldous Major South were
used when updating the resource range, it said. Lundin shares
surged as much as 36 percent to a record.  Aldous Major South and Avaldsnes are part of Norway’s
biggest discovery in more than 20 years, and the latest results
place it among the country’s five largest finds, Lundin said.
The combined oil structure is estimated to hold “gross
contingent resources” of 1.2 billion to 2.6 billion barrels of
recoverable oil equivalents, it said.  “Avaldsnes/Aldous, which is already a world class
discovery has, following this year’s appraisal program, become
significantly larger,” Chief Executive Officer Ashley Heppenstall said in the statement. “Avaldsnes and Aldous will
be developed together and we are already working closely with
our partners and  Statoil ASA (STL)  as operator of PL265 to ensure that
the project proceeds without delay.”  Lundin jumped to a record 121 kronor in Stockholm trading. 
Statoil, which holds 40 percent in both Avaldsnes and Aldous, rose 
4.6 percent to 128.4 kroner, and Det Norske soared as much as 17 
percent to 45.5 kroner.  ‘Significant Upside’  Statoil found “significant upside potential compared with
previously announced resource estimates for PL501 and will
revert with the company’s updated volume estimates after
completion of Statoil’s ongoing appraisal well 16/2-10 in Aldous
Major South,” according to a separate  statement  today.  The company last week drilled a well at the Aldous Major
North prospect that resulted in a discovery too small to be
commercial. The Stavanger-based explorer said it stood firm by
its estimates for the combined oil structure.  Statoil operates the Aldous Major North and South license,
in which Petoro AS holds 30 percent, Det Norske 20 percent and
Lundin 10 percent. Lundin holds 40 percent in the Avaldsnes
license, in which Maersk Oil owns 20 percent.  -- Editors: Alex Devine, Will Kennedy  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  