-- 
Hungary Debt Chief Rules Out Junk Grade, Eyes Ruble Bonds

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-09-30T14:28:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/hungary-economy-wouldn-t-justify-junk-grade-pleschinger-says.html
Hungary  has a higher chance of the
outlook on its credit profile being raised to stable from
negative than having its rating cut to junk from the lowest
investment grade, the Debt Management Agency said.  Teams from Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s Investors
Service will visit the country in October to review its rating,
Chief Executive Officer Gyula Pleschinger told a conference in
Pecs, southern Hungary, today. S&P rates Hungary BBB- with a
negative outlook. Moody’s and Fitch Ratings also rate it a step
above junk with negative and stable outlooks, respectively.  “I see no sensible reason for a downgrade,” Pleschinger
told reporters in what he said were “clarifications” to
earlier comments that suggested a cut was possible. “If I had
to bet, I’d say there’s a bigger chance of having our negative
outlook lifted than of further downgrade.”  Hungary was the first European Union member to obtain an
International Monetary Fund-led bailout in 2008 and has the
highest government debt level among eastern members of the
European Union at 77 percent of output. The country is wooing
sovereign wealth funds to invest in forint debt and is
considering selling Islamic bonds and notes denominated in
Russian rubles, Pleschinger said. Hungary doesn’t need another
IMF loan, he said.  Stocks, Forint  Stocks pared losses after Pleschinger said “fundamentals”
wouldn’t justify a credit-rating cut. Earlier he said he was
“afraid” of a downgrade. The BUX index dropped 1.7 percent to
15,534.53 at 1:57 p.m. in Budapest compared with an earlier
decline of 2.3 percent. The forint rose 0.1 percent to 292.43
against the euro.  The cost of protecting Hungarian debt against non-payment
for five years using credit-default swaps rose to 525.43 today
from 512.69 yesterday. They reached a two-and-a-half year peak
of 539.715 on Sept. 26. Hungary’s CDS level is “unreasonably
high” in a regional comparison, Pleschinger said.  Earlier today, he said the possibility that Hungary’s
rating will be cut to junk “can’t be ruled out.”  ‘Living with the Consequences’  “We’re living with the consequences of being rated BBB-and
I’m a bit afraid we’re going to be living with the consequences
of being BB, because it can’t be ruled out that credit-rating
companies, in their zeal, may cut the grade,” Pleschinger said
in a speech. “I hope we succeed in retaining our investment
grade.”  Hungary is “far” from the full implementation of its
three-year spending-cut plan, which the government announced in
March to put the budget on a sustainable path,  Mihaly Varga ,
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s chief of staff, said yesterday.  The Cabinet has “depleted” its arsenal of one-off
measures, including the effective nationalization of private
pension funds, to plug budget holes, Fiscal Council head
Zsigmond Jarai said yesterday.  The government plans to scrap early retirement and is
reducing unemployment and sick-leave benefits as part of
measures to save 550 billion forint ($2.5 billion) next year and
900 billion forint annually in 2013 and 2014.  Hungary cut its offer of 12-month Treasury bills by 34
percent at an auction yesterday after getting the lowest amount
of bids on that maturity in more than six years. It completed
its 4 billion-euro ($5.4 billion) foreign-currency financing
plan for 2011 with the sale of euro- and dollar-denominated
bonds in the first half of the year.  Islamic, Ruble Bonds  Hungary may sell Islamic and ruble bonds while it tries to
lure sovereign wealth funds from  China ,  Russia ,  Norway ,  Saudi
Arabia  and  Kazakhstan  to be long-term investors in forint debt,
where the large share of foreign investors has created risks to
budget financing needs, Pleschinger said.  “We are working hard to have a presence among buyers of
Islamic bonds and I hope that in the first half of next year
we’ll succeed,” Pleschinger said. “We are also thinking of a
ruble bond sale on the Russian market, which we would then swap
for euros or dollars.”  Foreigners’ holdings of Hungarian  government bonds  and
bills fell 17 billion forints yesterday to 3.9 trillion forint,
compared with 4.02 trillion forint on Sept. 16, which was the
highest since Bloomberg started tracking the data in 2002.  Hungary’s economy stalled in the second quarter as the
global recovery faltered, with gross domestic product unchanged
from the previous three months. The government forecasts growth
of 1.5 percent next year, compared with the central bank’s 1
percent estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net  