-- 
Hungary’s Central Bank May Bolster Forint, Citigroup Says

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-30T09:36:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/hungary-s-central-bank-may-act-to-support-forint-citigroup-says.html
Hungary ’s central bank may follow
Poland’s example and act to stem the weakening of the forint,
according to Citigroup Inc.  The Hungarian currency firmed 0.2 percent to 292.3 per euro
at 11:15 a.m. in Budapest, paring its quarterly loss to 9
percent, the worst performance since the three months through
March, 2009.  “Central bank interventionist rhetoric may increase as the
foreign currency pressure persists,” analysts at Citigroup,
including Luis Costa in  London , wrote in a research report dated
yesterday. “The significant improvement in the country’s
foreign-exchange reserve position leaves the National Bank of
Hungary with good ammunition to step in the spot markets going
down the road.”  Poland’s central bank last week bought the zloty on the
market for the first time since the currency was allowed to
trade freely in April 2000. The Hungarian central bank will act
to prop up the forint if it drops beyond “the psychologically
important level” of 300 per euro,  Murat Toprak , a London-based
currency strategist  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said two days ago.  Hungary’s foreign currency reserves stood at 34.7 billion
euros ($47 billion) at the end of August, according to central
bank data.  Budget Gaps  The forint has depreciated because of growing gaps in the
Hungarian budget and there is scope for the currency to weaken
past 295 per euro, the level reached on Sept. 22, which was the
weakest since April 2009, according to Commerzbank AG.  “The Hungarian fiscal policy remains an underlying
negative factor for the forint,” Carolin Hecht, a strategist at
Commerzbank in  Frankfurt , wrote in a research report today.  Hecht referred to comments yesterday by Mihaly Varga, chief
of staff to Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , that Hungary is far
behind on its three-year plan to cut spending.  Hecht also cited a call from the European Commission
yesterday for Hungary to end its special tax on
telecommunications operators, which the government has relied on
to reduce the  budget deficit  to below the European Union’s limit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  