-- 
Hungary 2012 Budget ’Can Handle’ Lower Growth, Matolcsy Says

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-30T14:46:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/hungary-12-budget-assumes-forint-rate-of-268-euro-matolcsy.html
Hungary’s economy won’t slide into
recession next year and the 2012 budget “can handle” a lower
growth rate than the current projection, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said.  “The budget is built on 1.5 percent growth, but it can
handle less,” Matolcsy said at a press conference in Budapest
today. “We do not expect a recession.”  Hungary is raising taxes and cutting spending to trim the
2012  budget deficit  to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product as
the economy slows. The Cabinet of Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
slashed its growth forecast for next year in two steps to 1.5
percent from an initial projection of 3 percent.  The central bank expects the economy to expand 1 percent
next year, though a recent government plan allowing the early
repayment of foreign-currency mortgages at below-market rates
may “significantly” change the economic outlook, Governor
Andras Simor said yesterday.  Hungary is raising the value-added  tax rate  to a European
Union high of 27 percent, increasing excise taxes on a number of
products, introducing a new levy in the insurance sector and
raising health-care contributions as a slowing economy cuts
budget revenues.  The finalized budget draft, submitted to Parliament today,
is calculated based on an average forint exchange rate of 268
per euro, Matolcsy said, adding that it contains alternative
scenarios based on rates of 280 and 300.  Next year’s budget features a fiscal improvement of 1
trillion forint ($4.6 billion), Matolcsy said. Expenditures will
fall by 303 billion forint, revenue will increase by 450 billion
and the state still has 250 billion forint in stability reserves
set aside this year, he said.  The government expects the primary budget, which excludes
interest payment on state debt, to book a surplus of 1.1 percent
of GDP, Matolcsy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  