-- 
James, Lachlan Murdoch Re-Election to News Corp. Opposed by Pension Funds

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-09-30T20:15:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/murdoch-sons-re-election-to-news-corp-opposed-by-pension-funds.html
James Murdoch  and his brother
Lachlan, sons of billionaire  Rupert Murdoch , should be replaced
on the  News Corp. (NWSA)  board to improve accountability at the
company, an Australian pension fund group said.  The brothers and four other board members shouldn’t be re-
elected because the company needs “credible skilled outside
directors,” the Australian Council of Superannuation Investors,
whose members manage more than A$250 billion ($244 billion) in
pension assets, said on its website.  The council also wants a “genuinely independent”
chairman, rather than Rupert Murdoch in that role and chief
executive officer. News Corp. has been embroiled in a scandal
since July over revelations its News of the World newspaper
hacked a murdered girl’s voicemail. That led to the closing of
the U.K. tabloid, executive resignations and the scrapping of a
bid for full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   “Responsibility for this, as well as setting the ethical
tone throughout News Corp. and affiliated organizations, rests
with the News Corp. board,” Council CEO Ann Byrne said in the
statement. “The whole board is responsible for failures of
oversight, however we regard it as impractical to recommend
against the election of the whole board.”  Given the Murdoch family’s control of about 40 percent of
News Corp. voting stock, there is “no prospect” of ousting any
incumbent director, the council said in its statement.  ‘Clear Message’  In order to press for skilled independent directors and to
raise oversight, “a clear message needs to be conveyed to the
board,” the council said.  The members represent 57 percent of the Australian not-for-
profit superannuation sector, according to its website. They
include Hesta, a A$17 billion fund serving 700,000 people in
health and community services. The council didn’t say how much
News Corp. stock members own.  The call for Murdoch to step down as chairman was echoed
today by Christian Brothers Investment Services Inc., which
urged investors to oppose the re-election of the entire board.  “Through their votes, investors can signal their support
for the appointment of an independent chair, who can help to
rebuild the public trust,”  Julie Tanner , assistant director of
socially responsible investing at New York-based Christian
Brothers, said today in an e-mailed statement. “An independent
chair will also help reassure shareholders that News Corp. is
committed to getting to the bottom of the recent hacking
scandal.”  Split Roles  News Corp. fell 45 cents to $15.48 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Class A shares have gained
6.4 percent this year. The company has repurchased $1.31 billion
of stock since mid-August, according to regulatory filings.  Christian Brothers filed a petition with News Corp. on July
15 that seeks to permanently split the CEO and chairman
positions, Tanner said on July 20. The fund said then it held
30,755 Class B voting shares of News Corp.  News Corp. agreed to pay 3 million pounds ($4.7 million) to
settle claims that the News of the World hacked the mobile phone
of the murdered girl,  Milly Dowler , a person with knowledge of
the matter said this month.  The New York-based company faces a U.K. parliamentary probe
of phone hacking by its employees, and is also the subject of
criminal investigations in the U.S.  James Murdoch, 38, and Rupert Murdoch, 80, testified in
July before a U.K. parliamentary committee to explain how much
they knew about the hacking at News of the World.  New Claims  Since then, additional allegations have surfaced, including
claims this week that reporters hacked the voice mails of Jane
Goody, a reality TV star who died of cancer. The allegations
were made by Goody’s former publicist,  Max Clifford .  James Murdoch, News Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer,
has said repeatedly that he didn’t know of widespread hacking.
His testimony has been challenged by former News Corp. employees
and he has been asked to appear for a second time before the
U.K. Parliament’s Culture Committee.  Teri Everett , a New York-based company spokeswoman, didn’t
respond to a requests for comment.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  The Australian pension-fund council also recommends
opposing Andrew Knight, Arthur Siskind and David DeVoe, who have
all been on the News Corp. board for at least 20 years.  The sixth director whose re-election is opposed by the
council is Natalie Bancroft, who has been on the board since her
family agreed to sell Dow Jones & Co. to News Corp. in 2007.  News Corp. has already said directors  Tom Perkins  and Ken
Cowley won’t be seeking re-election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  