-- 
Turkey’s Trade Deficit Widened to $8.2 Billion in August

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-09-30T07:45:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/turkey-s-trade-deficit-widened-to-8-2-billion-in-august-1-.html
Turkey ’s trade deficit widened in
August from a year earlier, undermining central bank forecasts
of an improvement in the country’s current-account gap.  The deficit was $8.2 billion in the month, compared with
$6.9 billion a year earlier, and $9 billion the previous month,
the statistics office in Ankara said on its website today. The
figure exceeded the median estimate of $7.1 billion from eight
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The central bank cut its benchmark  interest rate  last
month, saying the economy is slowing, which will lead to a
“rapid” improvement in the current-account deficit. The
cumulative gap in the 12 months through July widened to a record
$74.6 billion, equivalent to about 10 percent of gross domestic
product.  “This is not a good number as far as the central bank is
concerned,” Ozan Gaziturk, an economist at lender Sekerbank TAS
in Istanbul who predicted an $8 billion deficit, said in a
telephone interview. “Even if the expansion in the 12-month
current account may have stopped, it’s not going to narrow, not
in August at least.”  The lira fell after the figures were announced and was
trading at 1.8613 per dollar, nearing a record low, at 10:10
a.m. in Istanbul. The currency is heading for a fifth straight
month of declines, the longest losing streak since a financial
crisis in 2001.  The deficit is an obstacle to an upgrade in Turkey’s long-
term foreign-currency debt rating, Standard & Poor’s analyst
 Frank Gill  said on Sept. 20, when S&P lifted Turkey’s local-
currency debt rating by one level to BBB-, the lowest
investment-grade ranking, and affirmed its foreign-currency
ranking at BB with a positive outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 