-- 
Hurricane Ophelia Intensifies East of Bermuda

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-30T12:33:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/hurricane-ophelia-intensifies-rapidly-on-course-east-of-bermuda.html
Hurricane Ophelia continued to
strengthen over the Atlantic on a track that’s predicted to take
the storm east of  Bermuda  tomorrow before hitting Newfoundland
on Oct. 3, the National Hurricane Center said.  Ophelia, a Category 2 storm on the 5-step Saffir-Simpson
scale, has winds of 105 miles (169 kilometers) per hour,
according to a hurricane center advisory.  The system was 665 miles south of Bermuda, which is under a
tropical storm watch, and moving north-northwest at 9 mph,
according to the advisory. Hurricane-force winds of at least 74
mph stretch 30 miles from Ophelia’s eye, and tropical storm-
force winds of at least 39 mph extend 175 miles outwards,
according to the advisory.  “Tropical-storm-force winds are possible on Bermuda
starting Saturday afternoon,” according to the center. “Large
swells created by Ophelia will cause hazardous surf conditions
along the south shore beaches of Bermuda.”  On the forecast path, Ophelia may strike eastern
Newfoundland on Oct. 3, then head eastward into the North
Atlantic, according to the center.  Ophelia is one of 16 storms that have formed in the
Atlantic this year, an above-average season statistically. The
Atlantic season, which lasts from June through November,
normally produces 11 named storms with winds of at least 39 mph,
according to the hurricane center.  It is also the fourth storm to grow to hurricane strength
in the Atlantic this year.  Tropical Storm Philippe, in the mid-Atlantic east of
Ophelia, has 45 mph winds and is moving northwest at 13 mph, the
center said. It presents no threat to land for at least the next
five days under the forecast NHC path.  In the Pacific, Tropical Depression Hilary may become a
remnant low later. It was about 735 miles west of the southern
tip of  Baja California  off  Mexico  with winds of 35 mph,
according to the center.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 