-- 
Wall Street Decathlon Gives Executives Their Own Athletic Competition

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-30T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/wall-street-decathlon-gives-executives-their-own-athletic-competition.html
Eric Bachmann, the chief
administrative officer for  New York  hedge fund  Hutchin Hill
Capital LP , runs ultramarathons, plays lacrosse and works out
regularly. Even so, he couldn’t beat a 24-year-old Merrill Lynch
& Co. analyst for the title of  Wall Street’s best athlete  in
2010.  The 46-year-old Bachmann has a new goal this year -- being
named Wall Street’s most athletic executive.  For the first time, the 3-year-old  Wall Street Decathlon 
will crown a top executive and winners in three age groups
(under 30, 30-39 and over 40) as well as the overall champion.
The change has given older competitors like Bachmann added
incentive with about three weeks to train for the Oct. 22
charity event at  Columbia University ’s Wien Stadium in New York.  “The guy who won it last year was an absolute stud,”
Bachmann, who ran in his first 50-mile race in May, said in a
telephone interview. “I can’t imagine I could have beat that
guy with any amount of training and preparation, but I knew I
was competitive with guys my age. So I’m really excited about
the age breaks.”  Bachmann, who continued his training regimen during a
summer vacation with his wife and two kids in Ocean City, New
Jersey, isn’t alone. Gerald Donini, the head of equities,
Americas, for  Barclays Capital  in New York, said he was
initially discouraged by the prospect of facing competitors half
his age.  “I don’t think it would be fair if I was going against
guys who are 23, 24 years old,” said the 47-year-old Donini,
who was an Ivy League shot put champion at  Brown University  in
Providence,  Rhode Island . “But I said if you’re going to do an
age-group division, I’d be happy to compete, raise money and
recruit other guys.”  10 Events  The Wall Street Decathlon consists of 10 events that test
speed, endurance, strength and agility. While it features track
staples such as sprints at three distances, it also has  events 
like rowing, a football throw for distance and accuracy, pull-
ups, vertical jump, an agility drill and bench press.  The competition was founded in 2009 to determine the best
all-around athlete within the financial services industry and
raise money for charity. Donations this year support research at
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. There are
currently about 110 participants set for this year.  This is the first year the decathlon is affiliated with
Sloan Kettering, after benefiting  Lance Armstrong ’s LiveStrong
foundation for  cancer research  previously. The event raised
$225,000 last year.  Prospective competitors must work in the financial services
industry and raise a minimum of $3,000 in donations.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is
among the event’s 11 corporate sponsors, a group that includes
 RBC Capital Markets , luxury Swiss watchmaker  IWC , and private
jet charter service  XOJET .  NCAA, Circa 1986  At 6-foot-4 and 220 pounds, Donini still has an athlete’s
build, even though he says the last competition he participated
in was the National Collegiate Athletic Association indoor track
and field championships in 1986. He’s stayed in shape with a
strength-and-conditioning program that’s used by professional
athletes, police academies and the military, though he
acknowledges finding time between work obligations can be
difficult.  “I was in  Asia  for business and was able to exercise
during the trip,” Donini said in an interview. “Then I got
back and was a bit jet-lagged and had a hectic period at the
office. My workouts suffered. The demands of work took over.”  20-Something Winners  Last year’s Decathlon winner was Chris Schlack, who spent
time as a personal trainer and kick-boxing teacher at a gym in
Hoboken,  New Jersey , when he wasn’t working as a second-year
analyst in the alternate investments group for Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit in New York. Kyle Peterson, an
associate at Sageview Capital LP in Greenwich,  Connecticut , was
also 24 when he won the inaugural Decathlon competition in 2009.  “The Decathlon’s athlete demographic is as varied as the
10 events themselves,” co-founder Marc Hodulich said in an
interview. “We added an executive level competition, along with
age group divisions, to meet the growing demand from the
executive and senior management ranks.”  Hodulich, 31, a  management consultant , got involved in the
event because his mother is a breast cancer survivor. He said
the Decathlon benefits New York’s Memorial Sloan-Kettering
because organizers wanted to make it locally focused.  “The Memorial Sloan-Kettering community couldn’t be more
grateful,” Richard K. Naum, vice president of development at
 Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center , said in an e-mail. “Not
only for the support the Decathlon contributes but for the
invaluable leadership these professionals provide in their own
community.”  Training vs Work  Tom McGuirk, the managing director of HighTower Advisors in
 Menlo Park , California, is another competitor in the executive
division who spent the summer balancing his training with the
demands of work and family.  The 40-year-old McGuirk is a two-time Olympian, having
competed in the 400-meter hurdles for Ireland in the 1996 and
2000 Summer Games. Now married with a 6-year-old daughter and 4-
year-old son, McGuirk manages $300 million for  HighTower . He
said he’s getting close to his “fighting weight” after
dropping more than 15 pounds in training for the Decathlon.  “My wife actually said to me, ‘Is this what you were like
when you were training for the Olympics?’” McGuirk, who will
travel to New York from  California  for the event, said by
telephone. “It’s tough. I work long hours and have a young
family at home, so it’s getting up an hour earlier or staying up
an hour later to fit it all in. But it’s all worth it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  