-- 
Top Economist Hyman Makes ISI No. 1 in Tennis Too

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-30T04:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/wall-street-s-top-ranked-economist-ed-hyman-makes-isi-no-1-in-tennis-too.html
Every morning at 7, employees at
ISI Group Inc.’s midtown Manhattan office huddle around a green
ping-pong table to discuss sales strategy.  The racket-sport theme continues throughout the day at ISI,
an investment research provider and broker-dealer, where tennis
has become a business tool. It is used to build camaraderie and
client relationships at a firm where the company team includes a
collegiate championship doubles finalist and a  Davis Cup  player,
a local club champion and a former ATP Tour player.  “A big part of helping with clients’ performance is
getting to know them, their appetite for risk, how they trade,
their investment style,” ISI President Vinayak Singh said in an
interview. “The more time you find to do that, the better your
chances of success, and tennis is one way we achieve that
goal.”  ISI, founded by Ed Hyman and Nancy Lazar in 1991, is a 200-
employee company that made  Institutional Investor ’s Top 10  All-
America Research Teams  in October. The magazine also named Hyman
Wall Street’s best economist for the 31st consecutive year.  The firm didn’t set out to build a tennis culture, Hyman,
66, said in a telephone interview. It just developed.  “It’s been more serendipity than it has been grand
design,” he said. “We’ve done tennis outings almost every year
for quite a while to get clients in and play doubles.”  ISI tried to host one of those outings around the  U.S. Open 
in Queens, New York, which ended Sept. 12, associate managing
director Zoltan Csanadi said. ISI’s usual pro-am tournament with
clients, in which they play during the day and then attend a
night session at the National Tennis Center, was canceled after
Tropical Storm Irene hit the city.  Doubles Finalist  Csanadi, a 30-year-old Romanian, was a two-time indoor
finalist in doubles at  Old Dominion University  in Norfolk,
Virginia. During his college years he said he had winning
records against current professionals  John Isner  and Benjamin Becker.  Csanadi sits next to Federico Chavarria, a sales associate
who played on three Davis Cup teams for his native  Costa Rica 
and four years at the  University of Oklahoma  in Norman. He said
tennis affords ISI a unique vantage point for client
interaction.  “It is valuable one-on-one time, and after you’ve played
tennis for a while, people tend to open up in a different way
than just their business side,” said Chavarria, 24.  The company also benefits from tennis internally, Singh,
44, said. A few years ago, when managing director Charlie
Roberson was playing in Midtown Manhattan’s River Club finals,
roughly 100 clients and colleagues came out to watch, Singh
said.  “It gets everybody excited, it helps build teamwork,” he
said. “Tennis has become something in common to cheer for.”  River Club Champ  Roberson, 33, won the 80-year-old private club’s singles
title in 2006 and is a two-time doubles champion. Around the
corner from Roberson’s desk sits Francesc Lleal, a 30-year-old
managing director who was a hitting partner for the Spanish
Davis Cup team in April 2007 and rose to a career-high No. 623
ranking on the ATP Tour.  “A lot of times I am asked where I work, and when I say
ISI, they say, ‘Oh you guys have a lot of great tennis
players,’” Chavarria said. “Many people associate Ed Hyman and
ISI with tennis.”  Jason Pinsky, an equity analyst at Wexford Capital LP,
which uses ISI’s research and data, said the firm has a
reputation within the  New York  tennis community.  “They have an impressive group of really good players,”
Pinsky, 25, said in a telephone interview. “And excelling in
tennis really allows you to excel in the businessplace as well.
It’s a great networking tool.”  Tennis Financiers  Pinsky, who was the top-ranked under-18 American before
attending the  University of Pennsylvania , said many finance
companies are interested in hiring former tennis players.  “In tennis, you don’t have teammates to rely on when
you’re having an off day,” Pinsky said. “It’s the mental
capacity and the discipline that really distinguishes a tennis
player, and those characteristics will lead to success in the
business world, too.”  ISI’s ping-pong table serves as a desk in the company’s
main meeting room and another way to bond with clients and
colleagues. The firm had 110 participants on its team in the
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Corporate Challenge , a series of 3.5-mile
races held on June 15 and 16 in Central Park.  “There is a mutual respect for everyone at ISI, and that
starts off by doing things together,” said Singh, who played
professional tournaments in  Rome  before attending college in the
U.S. and taught at the  IMG Bollettieri Tennis Academy  in 1989.  Tennis Master  Hyman, the company’s chairman and chief executive officer,
served on the board of the  International Tennis Hall of Fame  and
plays regularly. He is the “original master of the tennis
culture we have at ISI,” Singh said.  “He’s the guy setting the tone for everything here,
especially work ethic,” Singh said. “When you get him on the
court he’s one of the scrappiest players you’ll ever meet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ; 