-- 
Wells Fargo, BDO Seidman Settle Lawsuits for $130 Million

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-09-30T19:29:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/wells-fargo-bdo-seidman-settle-lawsuits-for-130-million.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s Wachovia
Capital Markets unit and BDO Seidman LLP settled lawsuits over
their roles in the collapse of Le-Nature’s Inc., a defunct water
bottler, for $130 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas P. Agresti approved one piece
of the settlement today at a hearing in Pittsburgh. Under that
deal, Wells Fargo and BDO would pay $50 million to a trustee for
creditors of Le-Nature’s, whose chief executive officer pleaded
guilty to fraud in June.  A group of Le-Nature’s lenders will receive $56 million and
the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  $24 million
under another part of the settlement, according to court
documents filed in the Le-Nature’s bankruptcy case in
Pittsburgh. The lenders and Calpers sued Wachovia and  New York- 
based auditor BDO Seidman in New York state court.  Agresti said he was skeptical of the settlement at the
start of the hearing because of the high legal fees associated
with the case, and changed his mind after listening to trustee
Marc S. Kirschner testify.  “He convinced me, as the judge who came in here with an
attitude to be honest, and he turned me around,” Agresti said
in court today.  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, said she
couldn’t immediately comment on the settlement.  Le-Nature’s, based in Latrobe,  Pennsylvania , made bottled
water, tea and other flavored drinks. Gregory Podlucky, the
company’s CEO and founder, and others pleaded guilty to charges
they duped creditors out of hundreds of millions of dollars by
overstating company sales.  Wachovia relied on the false financial statements when it
arranged a $285 million loan, according to court records in the
criminal case. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo acquired Wachovia
in 2008 for $12.7 billion.  The bankruptcy case is In Re Le-Nature’s, 06-25454,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Western District of Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 