-- 
Corn Posts Record Monthly Drop on Supply Outlook; Wheat, Soybeans Plummet

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-09-30T20:43:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/wheat-tumbles-to-three-month-low-as-usda-pegs-stockpiles-above-estimates.html
Corn posted its biggest monthly
drop in five decades, and wheat and soybeans tumbled, after a
government tally of U.S. inventories signaled demand may be
slowing for crops used in food,  animal feed  and fuel.  Supplies of corn totaled 1.128 billion bushels as of Sept.
1, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said today in a report, 20
percent more than the average prediction of 24 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Wheat inventories were pegged at 2.15 billion
bushels, topping analysts’ estimates of 2.071 billion.  Corn consumption is dropping after prices rallied to a
three-year high in June. Use of the grain fell 2.3 percent in
the three months ended Aug. 31 from a year earlier, the USDA
said today. Futures also have tumbled as high U.S. unemployment
and the worsening European debt crisis raised concerns that
demand for commodities would slow, while a stronger dollar
eroded the appeal of U.S. supplies for overseas buyers.  “We’ve seen some reductions in demand,” Dan Kuechenmeister, the manager of the commodities department at RBC
Wealth Management, said by telephone from  Minneapolis . After the
USDA’s report, traders “have taken these markets behind the
woodshed and taken the old belt strap to them.”  Corn futures for December delivery tumbled the 40-cent
exchange limit, or 6.3 percent, to settle at $5.925 a bushel at
1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, the lowest for a most-
active contract since July 1. The price was down 23 percent for
September, the biggest monthly decline in records going back to
1959. The exchange limit will expand to 60 cents on Oct. 3.  Wheat Futures Plunge  Wheat futures for December delivery plunged 45 cents, or
6.9 percent, to $6.0925 a bushel on Chicago. Earlier, the price
touched $6.05, the lowest for a most-active contract since July
1. The commodity lost 23 percent in September, the biggest
monthly drop since March 1974.  Soybean futures for November delivery tumbled 51 cents, or
4.1 percent, to $11.79 a bushel on the CBOT. Earlier, the price
touched $11.75, the lowest for a most-active contract since Oct.
12. The oilseed plunged 19 percent in September, the biggest
monthly drop since September 2008.  In today’s report, the USDA said domestic soybean
stockpiles totaled 215 million bushels on Sept. 1. That was
above 151 million bushels from a year earlier, while below
analysts’ expectations of 224 million. Still, greater supplies
of corn and wheat may erode demand for the oilseed, which
competes for acreage with corn and is used in livestock feed.  “Corn is going to trump everything,” said  Jason Britt ,
the president of brokerage Central States Commodities Inc. in
 Kansas City ,  Missouri .  ‘Far Less’ Demand  Bigger-than-expected corn and wheat supplies suggest “far
less grain was fed” to livestock than the government estimated,
 Hussein Allidina , Morgan Stanley’s head of commodity’s research,
wrote in a report. Smaller producers may be reducing herds by
more than the USDA estimates, or analysts are “inadequately
accounting for all the feed components currently in use in the
U.S.,” he wrote.  The USDA said on Sept. 12 that 240 million tons of wheat
would go to  feed  and residual use this year, 80 percent more
than a year earlier, while feed usage in corn would drop 6
percent from a year earlier to 4.7 billion bushels. The agency
will update its supply and demand data on Oct. 12.  Rabobank, Goldman Analysis  Higher U.S. grain supplies mean “there will be less need
to ration demand in the new season,” Rabobank analysts Luke Chandler, Keith Flury, Erin FitzPatrick and Nick Higgins wrote
in a report today. The bank said it is bearish on all three
crops. The USDA’s report dealt a “substantial blow” to prices,
they said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. maintained its $7 price forecast
for corn in the current marketing year, saying in a note that
the “probability for an extreme bull case” in prices is
diminished after today’s USDA report.  The U.S. is the world’s leading producer and exporter of
corn and soybeans. The nation is also the top shipper of wheat.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government figures
show. Wheat is the fourth-largest, behind hay, at $13 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  