-- 
Wynn Macau, Sands China Plummet, Leading Casino Stocks Lower

-- B y   F r a n k   L o n g i d   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-09-30T10:03:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/wynn-macau-plummets-leading-hong-kong-casino-stocks-lower.html
Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128)  and  Sands China Ltd. (1928) 
slumped in Hong Kong trading after shares of their U.S.-listed
parents fell on concerns China’s growth may slow.  Wynn Macau  retreated 17 percent, the most since listing two
years ago, to HK$18.78 while Sands China plunged 14 percent to
HK$18.64. Rivals  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , MGM China
Holdings Ltd.,  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880)  and  Melco International
Development Ltd. (200)  also declined.  A Bloomberg poll showed investors expect growth to slow in
China. Wealthy gamblers from mainland China have underpinned
Macau’s growth, the only place in the country where casinos are
legal.  Casino gambling revenue  in the former Portuguese colony
last year was four times that of the  Las Vegas Strip  and has
grown 47 percent in the eight months through August to 173
billion patacas ($22 billion).  “ China’s economy  may be slowing down,” Teng Yee Tan, an
analyst at CIMB Securities HK Ltd., said in a phone interview
today. “People are speculating that some junket operators are
facing a liquidity squeeze.”  Junket operators are paid a commission by casino operators
for bringing customers to place gamble at high-stakes tables,
where bets go up to as much as $250,000 a hand. They also extend
loans to their clients and collect on the debts.  Purchasing Managers’ Index  “Renewed fears for the potential of slowing growth in
China” contributed to the decline in the share prices of  Las
Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  and Wynn Resorts Ltd. yesterday,  David Bain ,
an analyst at Sterne, Agee & Leach, wrote in a note to clients.  Fifty-nine percent of respondents to the Bloomberg survey
said China’s gross domestic product, which rose 9.5 percent last
quarter, will gain less than 5 percent annually by 2016. Twelve
percent see such a slowdown within a year, and 47 percent said
it will occur in two to five years, the quarterly Bloomberg
Global Poll of investors, analysts and traders, who are
Bloomberg subscribers, showed.  The China purchasing managers’ index, a gauge for
manufacturing, released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics today showed a reading of 49.9 for September, the
third monthly contraction, as measures of new orders and export
demand declined. The data adds to evidence that growth in China
is moderating after the government imposed curbs on lending and
the real-estate industry to damp inflation.  ‘Buying Opportunity’  Las Vegas Sands fell 5.3 percent to $41.33 in New York
trading yesterday while  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  plunged 7.3 percent to
$125.54 in Nasdaq trading.  “Today’s underperformance is a good buying opportunity for
Macau names,” said Bain. Macau gambling revenue for the third
quarter will probably be higher than estimated, he said.  Junket operators “sound a bit more conservative in terms
of credit extension, but none of them have seen issues regarding
securing working capital nor credit collections” from high-
stakes gamblers, Gabriel Chan and Isis Wong, analysts for Credit
Suisse Group AG in Hong Kong, said in a Sept. 27 note to clients.  Galaxy slid 13 percent to HK$11.62 in Hong Kong trading,
Melco International dropped 13 percent to HK$5.23, MGM China
tumbled 12 percent to HK$10.32, and SJM fell 8.7 percent to
HK$14.10.  Hong Kong markets were closed yesterday because of Typhoon
Nesat.  Macau’s September casino gambling revenue will probably
grow as much as 46 percent, and October “could yield a new
monthly gross gaming revenue record,” Bain wrote.  China  celebrates National Day with a week-long holiday next
week. The so-called Golden Week is “a large driver of Macau
revenue,” Bain wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frank Longid in Hong Kong at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  