-- 
Global Stocks Fall on Economic Slowdown Concern; Dollar, Treasuries Climb

-- B y   D a n i e l   T i l l e s   a n d   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 
2011-09-30T20:08:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/yen-dollar-gain-as-metals-fall-on-growth-outlook-kiwi-drops-on-downgrade.html
Stocks fell, dragging the MSCI All-
Country World Index to its biggest quarterly loss since 2008,
while the  U.S. dollar  strengthened as declines in Chinese
manufacturing and German retail sales signaled global growth is
slowing. Treasuries rose, and oil retreated.  The MSCI All-Country World Index slid 2.3 percent at 4 p.m.
New York time, extending its decline since June 30 to 18
percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped 2.5 percent.
The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 1.2 percent. The dollar gained
against its 16 major peers, including a 1.3 percent advance
versus the euro. Treasury 10-year notes snapped a five-day drop,
extending their biggest quarterly increase since the depths of
the financial crisis in 2008. Oil lost 3.6 percent.  Chinese manufacturing shrank a third month, the longest
streak since 2009. German sales dropped the most in more than
four years, while European inflation unexpectedly quickened to
the fastest in almost three years. Japanese industrial
production grew less than economists forecast. The  S&P 500  pared
losses earlier after the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago
Inc.’s business barometer and Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan gauge of consumer confidence beat projections.  “The situation is quite dark,” said Philipp Musil, who
helps manage about $11 billion at Semper Constantia Privatbank
AG in Vienna. “We’re very cautious about equities. All in all
the figures are not good and many investors think we’re going
straight into a recession.”  Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley slumped 10 percent. The owner of the world’s
largest retail brokerage is being priced in the credit-default
swaps market as less creditworthy than most U.S., U.K. and
French banks and as risky as  Italy ’s biggest lenders. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. shares lost 5.4 percent. Deutsche Bank AG lost
4.9 percent as Handelsblatt reported that  Germany ’s biggest
lender may lower its profit target.  The cost of insuring corporate debt surged in Europe with
the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps linked to
125 companies with investment-grade ratings up 11 basis points
at 202, approaching the highest in 2 1/2 years.  Credit-default swaps insuring Chinese  government bonds  rose
21.5 basis points to 201.5, the highest level since March 2009,
according to CMA.  The S&P 500 extended this quarter’s slide to 14 percent,
the most since the last three months of 2008. Futures on the
index maintained losses today after U.S. consumer spending
increased 0.2 percent in August, matching the median economist
projection in a Bloomberg survey. Growth slowed from the 0.7
percent increase in July.  ‘Deadly Combination’  “The  U.S. economy  is tipping into a new recession,”
 Lakshman Achuthan , co-founder of the Economic Cycle Research
Institute, said today during a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene . “You have
wildfire among the leading indicators across the board. Non-
financial services plunging, manufacturing plunging, exports
plunging. That is such a deadly combination.”  U.S. stocks fell even after business activity in the U.S.
accelerated in September. The Institute for Supply Management-
Chicago said its business barometer rose to 60.4 this month from
56.5 in August. Economists forecast the gauge would drop to 55,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Another report showed confidence among U.S. consumers rose
in September from the lowest level since November 2008 as
pessimism about the economy eased. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment
climbed to 59.4 this month. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was 57.8.  Yen, Euro  The yen climbed 1.1 percent against the euro. The Dollar
Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against those of six
trading partners, gained 0.5 percent. The Japanese and U.S.
currencies are the best performers this quarter among the 10
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
gaining about 12 percent and 6.7 percent, respectively.  Japan ’s factory output increased 0.8 percent in August from
July, the trade ministry said in  Tokyo  today, missing the 1.5
percent median estimate of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. South Korean industrial production rose 4.8 percent from a
year earlier, trailing the median 6.1 percent gain forecast in a
separate Bloomberg survey.  Treasury 10-year yields fell nine basis points to 1.90
percent. The yield on the German 10-year bund declined 12 basis
points to 1.89 percent.  Oil fell 3.6 percent to $79.20 a barrel in  New York .  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 1.9 percent,
heading for the biggest monthly retreat since October 2008.
 China ’s Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.3 percent to the
lowest level since April 2009, while  Russia ’s Micex Index sank
2.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Tilles in London at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  