-- 
Zambia’s Sata Orders Exports to Be Checked, Deals Probed

-- B y   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a
-- 
2011-09-30T15:24:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/zambian-exports-must-be-cleared-by-central-bank-president-says.html
Michael Sata , president of Zambia,
 Africa ’s biggest copper producer, ordered that all exports need
to be cleared by the central bank and called for investigations
into the sales of Finance Bank Zambia and the state-owned phone
company.  The government, formed this week after Sata’s Sept. 20
election win, is seeking more information on what is being
shipped out of the southern African nation to boost transparency
and reduce corruption, Sata told reporters in Lusaka, the
capital, today after swearing in his new cabinet.  Zambia’s total exports climbed to 3.85 trillion kwacha
($799 million) in August, the statistics office said today.
Copper shipments will probably jump to $8.4 billion this year,
according to the central bank.  “Our country has lots of mineral wealth and yet our people
remain poor,” Sata said. “We want to know exactly how much we
earn from our exports.”  Known as “King Cobra” by his supporters because of his
aggressive political style, the 73-year-old Sata won last week’s
election on a pledge to spread more of the country’s copper
wealth, create jobs and fight corruption. Companies including
 Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) ,  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  and Glencore
International Plc operate in Zambia.  Investigate Deals  Sata also ordered deals done during his predecessor Rupiah Banda’s presidency be investigated, such as the sale of Finance
Bank Zambia to  First National Bank , a unit of  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ,
South Africa’s second-biggest banking group, this month and LAP
Green Networks of Libya’s purchase of a 75 percent stake in
Zambia Telecommunications Corp.  This was to ensure transparency in the deals, he said.  Danny Zandamela, chief executive officer of FNB Africa,
said the bank hasn’t received a formal request to review the
transaction.  The process the central bank went through to rescue Finance
Bank was “conducted within the regulator’s mandate and in a
very transparent fashion,” Zandamela said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “FNB hopes that the outcome of the
election will not affect the transaction.”  Zambia’s central bank seized Finance Bank in December for
breaching financial laws and agreed to sell it to FirstRand for
about $5.6 million after the South African lender had managed it
for eight months. LAP Green Networks bought the controlling
stake in Zamtel, the state-owned mobile-phone and fixed-line
operator, for $257 million in June.  Rates Too High  The energy regulator is disbanded and fuel tenders it
entered into should be probed, while the Zambia Revenue
Authority must also be investigated, Sata said.  Sata fired Caleb Fundanga, the central bank Governor,
yesterday and appointed Alexander Chikwanda to replace Situmbeko Musokotwane as finance minister. Sata beat Banda in the
presidential election and his Patriotic Front won the most seats
in parliament, ending two decades of rule by the Movement for
Multiparty Democracy.  The decision to replace Fundanga may be a signal the
government wants to lower  interest rates  and weaken the
currency, according to  Leon Myburgh , sub-Saharan Africa
strategist for Citigroup Inc. in Johannesburg.  The  Finance Ministry  has been tasked with reducing
commercial bank’s lending rates in the country, Information
Minister Given Lubinda said by phone today.  “Our country’s interest rates are too high and the
government will act to cut them in order to stimulate economic
growth as soon as possible,” he said.  Zambia’s kwacha strengthened 0.9 percent to 4,822 against
the dollar by 5:55 p.m. in Lusaka, paring yesterday’s 2 percent
decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Mukwita in Lusaka at 
 amukwita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  