-- ‘The Croods’ Tops Box Office, Taps Thirst for Animatiion
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-03-25T20:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/-the-croods-tops-box-office-taps-fans-eager-for-animated-fare.html
“The Croods,” the first major
animation film of the year, opened as No. 1 in U.S. and Canadian
theaters, with $43.6 million in sales for  DreamWorks Animation
SKG Inc. (DWA)  and its distributor, Twentieth Century Fox.  “Olympus Has Fallen,” a thriller about terrorism from the
independent distributor FilmDistrict, opened in second place
with revenue of $30.4 million, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-
Office  said today in an e-mailed statement. The Tina Fey comedy
“Admission,” from  Universal Pictures ’ Focus Features, opened
fifth with sales of $6.2 million.  The three movies offered fans a broad range of new options
heading into the Easter holiday in the U.S., when schools are on
break. Weekend sales trailed a year ago, when “The Hunger
Games” led sales. “The Croods” is one of two films this year
from DreamWorks Animation, the Glendale, California-based studio
that produced the “Shrek” and “Madagascar” series.  “‘Croods’ is an important film for DreamWorks as they try
to re-establish some momentum,” said  Paul Sweeney , an analyst
with Bloomberg Industries, in a telephone interview. “They’re
looking to ideally start a new franchise and, I’m not sure if
this going to be a franchise, but it certainly had a solid
opening weekend.”  Stone Age  “The Croods” features a prehistoric family that’s forced
to flee its cave after a disaster. The film features the voices
of Nicolas Cage and  Emma Stone . Cage plays the caveman father
who leads his clan to safety.  Weekend forecasts for “The Croods,” produced at a cost of
about $135 million, according to the company, ranged from $39
million at Box Office Guru to $45 million at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC, which  recommends  buying DreamWorks Animation shares.
Fox is a unit of  News Corp. (NWSA)   “Olympus Has Fallen,” directed by Antoine Fuqua, features
 Gerard Butler  as a Secret Service agent saving America from a
band of North Korean commandos, who capture the White House,
shoot up  Washington  and then threaten the president and his
defense secretary.  The film was expected to take in $22.5 million in weekend
sales, the forecast at BoxOffice.com. Aaron Eckhart co-stars as
the president and Melissa Leo plays his defense secretary. The
film also features Rick Yune as the guerrilla leader Kang and
 Morgan Freeman  as the speaker of the House.  Teen Prodigy  “It came in stronger than expected,” Sweeney said. “It’s
one of those that can build off a good solid opening weekend
through word-of-mouth and can play for several weeks, especially
if there’s no direct competition coming in.”  In “Admission,” Fey plays a Princeton University
admissions officer who’s recruiting students from an alternative
high school. She comes across a teen prodigy that may be the
child she gave up for adoption years earlier.  Paul Rudd  plays Fey’s former college classmate who runs the
alternative high school. The film was expected to take in $8.4
million, according to BoxOffice.com.  Among returning films, Disney’s “Oz the Great and
Powerful” fell to third place with sales of $21.6 million after
two weeks leading domestic theatrical revenue.  “Oz” stars  James Franco  as Oscar Diggs, a circus con
artist whose hot-air balloon is blown to that magical land by a
tornado. He gets tangled in a conflict involving three witches
that will determine the future of Oz. The film also features
 Rachel Weisz ,  Mila Kunis  and  Michelle Williams .  ‘The Call’  The movie, directed by Sam Raimi, has taken in $177.1
million since opening on March 8.  “The Call” fell to fourth from second, collecting $8.9
million in revenue.  Halle Berry  plays an emergency-services
dispatcher who gets a call from a teenage girl who has just been
abducted. The  Sony Corp. (6758)  film also features Abigail Breslin and
Michael Imperioli.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 36 percent to
$130 million from the year-earlier weekend, Hollywood.com said.
Sales this year are down 13 percent to $2.06 billion. Attendance
is down 14 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
March 22 to March 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net ;
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  