-- AirAsia-Tata Said to Offer Free Seats to Fliers: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-03-25T02:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/airasia-tata-said-to-offer-free-seats-to-fliers-corporate-india.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s biggest
budget carrier, is considering offering some seats for free when
it starts flying in  India , a company official with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  The operator plans to give away vacant seats for nothing at
airports, expanding similar promotional offers at home in
 Malaysia , the person said, asking not to be named citing rules.
Passengers will have to pay taxes and other fees, the person
said. AirAsia, which is awaiting a license after winning the
Indian government’s approval this month to form a joint venture,
is targeting to start operations by end-2013.  Chief Executive Officer Tony Fernandes, who has said ticket
prices will be the “No. 1 differentiator” in India where 60
percent of the market is controlled by discount airlines, is
counting on the South Asian country for growth. His strategy may
threaten a recovery at  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  and SpiceJet
Ltd., which are raising fares to cover costs after cash-strapped
 Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  ended operations in October.  “It will excite the market, but will hurt the airlines,”
said Harsh Vardhan, chairman of New Delhi-based Starair
Consulting that advises carriers. “AirAsia is entering a market
where competition has matured. All of them have burnt their
fingers, learnt their lessons and now they’ve stabilized
themselves.”  Checking Costs  The company’s India venture will fly planes already ordered
by its Malaysian parent and may also replicate its home model of
charging a fee for services including baggage check-in,
preferred seats and hot meals to boost revenue in India, the
executive said. It will keep costs under check by selling
tickets on-line and saving on payments to sales agents, the
executive said.  “How can you reduce costs beyond a point?” Starair’s
Vardhan said. “Can you reduce the salaries, can you reduce the
fuel cost, taxes or airport charges? Everybody is paying the
same.”  India’s airline industry has lost more than $6.6 billion in
five years. Jet fuel accounts for about half of a carrier’s
expenses. India’s airports regulator last year approved to raise
charges more than fourfold at the New Delhi facility, increasing
costs.  “We are not commenting on the subject at all,” Aziz
Laikar, spokesman of the Sepang Selangor, Malaysia-based company,
said in an e-mailed response.  Depressed Earnings  AirAsia, whose profit more than tripled in 2012 to 1.9
billion ringgit ($610 million), is coming to India when the
local industry is saddled with a combined $20 billion of debt.
Fuel prices that cost 60 percent more than in  Singapore , surging
airport costs and other fees have depressed earnings even as
passenger traffic doubled in the past seven years.  While about half-a-dozen operators took off in the past
eight years as rising disposable incomes made air travel
affordable to Indians, only IndiGo, a discount carrier, made a
profit in the year ended March 31, according to government data.
High taxes, inadequate infrastructure and a weaker rupee are
some of the challenges airlines in India face, according to
Aditya Ghosh, president of IndiGo.  As much as 70 percent of airline costs, including jet fuel
and aircraft prices, are denominated in dollars, he said in
Mumbai on March 17. The Indian rupee has depreciated about 17
percent against the greenback in the past two years, versus 2.5
percent for the Malaysian ringgit, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Enough Experience  “Forex volatility does play a crucial role in determining
profit or loss,” Shukor Yusof, a Singapore-based aviation
analyst at Standard & Poor’s, said in an e-mail on March 22.
“However, AirAsia is operating in many different jurisdictions,
including  Japan ,  Thailand  and  Indonesia  where forex volatility
is often present and we believe it has sufficient experience to
manage this.”  Boeing Co. (BA)  estimates Indian airlines priced tickets as much
as $11 below cost as of December 2011 as they competed to lure
fliers amid high fuel costs. Jet Airways, the nation’s biggest
listed carrier, hasn’t made an annual group profit in five years,
while losses at state-owned Air India have mounted since the
government combined Indian Airlines with the flag carrier in
2007.  SpiceJet, the nation’s only publicly traded budget airline,
is headed for its second straight annual loss, according to 10
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Kingfisher was
saddled with 85 billion rupees of debt before Chairman Vijay Mallya decided to shut down operations last year.  State Bailout  The industry in India has lost more than 360 billion rupees
($6.6 billion) since the year ended March 31, 2007, data
provided by the government show. Air India last year won a 300
billion-rupee state bailout through 2020, adding to the
competition.  Jet Airways  shares  have declined 3 percent this year, while
 SpiceJet (SJET)  has  dropped  35 percent.  With one carrier less after the departure of Kingfisher,
the airlines may be turning around their performance for the
better, data from Boeing show. Tickets for a flight between
Mumbai and Delhi may have sold for a $5 profit starting October,
according to the Chicago-based aircraft maker.  Decent Profit  AirAsia aims to start Indian operations in the fourth
quarter after winning approval March 6 for the nation’s first
foreign aviation investment since rules were eased in September.
AirAsia will own 49 percent of the Indian venture, while Tata
Sons Ltd. will hold 30 percent and Arun Bhatia of Telestra
Tradeplace Pvt., whose son is married to the daughter of
billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal , will own 21 percent.  “AirAsia is adept at offering fares that will be very
competitive compared to its rivals,” S&P’s Yusof said. There
are “key challenges in terms of managing India’s higher-than-
average airport, fuel costs etc. But with a large pool of
middle-income earners, it is within the realm of possibility for
AirAsia and partners to make a decent profit.”  CEO Fernandes has expanded the  carrier  into the region’s
biggest discount carrier by setting up ventures in the
 Philippines , Japan, Thailand and Indonesia. In December, the
airline ordered 100 Airbus SAS A320s valued at $9.4 billion, in
addition to the 200 it had agreed in 2011 to purchase.  “I won’t tell you my strategy now,” Fernandes said in an
interview to Bloomberg TV on March 20. “India is a 1 billion
population country, there’s plenty of places we can go. I think
if we get it right, it’s massive. That’s the big question
whether we can get it right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at   anandk@bloomberg.net  