-- Mango Mirroring Zara Challenges Europe’s Wealthiest Man
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-03-25T17:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/mango-mirroring-zara-challenges-europe-s-wealthiest-man.html
Two years ago, Spanish retailer
Mango could barely convince its employees to wear its dresses,
skirts, and blouses, which many workers -- and customers --
thought were too formal.  Today, Mango has ditched the glitz in favor of more casual
attire like that from Spanish rival  Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s
biggest seller of apparel and owner of the Zara brand. The
change has helped Mango outpace Inditex in  Spain ’s 16.2 billion-
euro ($21 billion) clothing market.  “We had gone way too far with our focus on clothes for
parties and events,” said Enric Casi, general manager of the
Barcelona-based retailer. “Not even our employees wore Mango.”  The casual push wasn’t the only lesson Mango took from
Arteixo, Spain-based Inditex as it sought to address a decline
in profit of almost 60 percent in the two years through 2011.
That year, Isak Andic, the founder, chairman, and owner of
almost 100 percent of the company, stepped back into a stronger
day-to-day management role to help reformulate strategy.  Since then, Mango says, the chain has cut prices by about
20 percent across the board, bringing them closer to  Zara ’s. And
the company has stepped up expansion outside of crisis-weary
Spain and placed more emphasis on the fast-fashion model that
has helped Inditex prosper.  “Mango is emulating Zara as much as it can,” said Luis Benguerel, an equity trader at Interbrokers in Barcelona. “It
needs to follow a successful business in order to fix its
mounting problems and achieve the type of growth Inditex has
seen.”  Fourth-Richest  Two years ago, about 70 percent of Mango’s revenue came
from party and event clothing and 30 percent from casual wear.
Now, it’s the other way round, Casi, 57, said in an interview.  Mango’s changes are bearing fruit just as the growth that
made Inditex founder  Amancio Ortega  the world’s fourth-richest
man shows signs of faltering. Inditex’s profit rose 12 percent
in the three months through January, the slowest pace in five
quarters and below analyst estimates.  Inditex shares closed at 100.90 euros in Madrid today, down
7 percent since the day before it announced annual earnings on
March 13.  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ,  Europe ’s No. 2 fashion chain,
slid 0.9 percent in that period. Mango isn’t publicly traded and
doesn’t plan to sell shares in the short term, according to
Casi.  While Inditex faces a “difficult situation” in its
domestic market, according to Chief Executive Officer Pablo Isla, Mango is gaining traction in Spain even as retail sales
plunge amid record 26 percent unemployment. Profit almost
doubled last year after falling in 2011 to the lowest in almost
a decade, Casi said.  Inditex IPO  Spanish sales for Inditex, a fifth of the company’s total,
fell 5 percent last year. Mango’s home-country revenue gained
about 20 percent, Casi said. H&M sales in Spain, including
value-added tax, were flat in 2012. First-quarter revenue in the
country fell 6 percent, the Stockholm-based company said last
week.  Globally, Mango remains far behind Inditex, where revenue
has gained every year for the past decade to 15.95 billion euros
last fiscal year, making it the best performer in the Stoxx 50
since its May 2001 initial public offering. With a market
capitalization of about 63 billion euros, Inditex is Spain’s
biggest company.  Mango’s revenue hit 1.41 billion euros in 2011. Last year,
sales grew about 22 percent, according to Casi --outpacing
Inditex’s 16 percent growth. Still, that’s short of the 30
percent growth Mango forecast in its 2011 annual sustainability
report. Mango predicts revenue will almost double from 2011 to
2015, to 2.75 billion euros. Inditex sales may rise 57 percent
to 21.7 billion euros in the same period, according to the
 average  estimate of 18 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  H&M’s total  revenue  in 2012, excluding value-added tax,
climbed 9.8 percent 120.8 billion kronor ($18.6 billion).  Sleeveless T’s  The Mango store on Calle de la Princesa in  Madrid  sells
jeans for 29.99 euros, about the same as a similar pair at Zara
next door. Mango’s 9.99-euro sleeveless cotton T-shirts, though,
are double the price of Zara’s.  “Even if Zara still offers less-expensive garments, Mango
has cut prices by a lot,” said Iratxe Lindosa, a 37-year-old
social worker from Madrid shopping at the Mango in Calle de la
Princesa. “A dress I liked but couldn’t afford in the past, I
now buy it right away.”  Mango is cutting the time it takes for clothing to reach
stores, keeping apparel fresh and appealing to younger
customers, Casi said. That helps the company avoid constant
discounting and restrict markdowns, he said.  Global Ambitions  Inditex’s gross  margin , a measure of profitability, widened
to 59.8 percent last year as H&M’s narrowed to 59.5 percent.
Mango’s gross margin has shrunk for each of the last five years
to 57.2 percent in 2011.  Mango now has more than 2,600 outlets in 109 countries.
Inditex, which owns eight brands including Zara, Massimo Dutti
and Bershka, has just over 6,000 in 86 countries. H&M says it
has about 2,800 stores in 48 countries.  Mango is targeting 300 net store openings this year, or
about the same as 2012. That compares with Inditex’s goal of
about 450 new stores, a slower pace than the 482 net openings in
the past fiscal year. H&M plans to add 350 new stores, up from
the 325 previously planned.  Mango’s expansion in Spain will be “very limited,” Casi
said. Inditex doesn’t plan to increase its Spanish store count
this year, according to CEO Isla.  Teen Line  In another nod to Inditex’s strategy, Mango has diversified
by opening brands for men and accessories, and it plans to
introduce brands for kids, sports and underwear later this year.
Next year, it’s planning new lines for teenagers and plus sizes.  Undertaking so much change so quickly will tax Mango’s
management, said Jose Luis Nueno, a professor at IESE Business
School and co-author of a Harvard Business School case study on
Zara. In the process, profit margins may suffer as the company
lowers prices and moves manufacturing from  Asia  to higher cost
countries closer to Europe to make it easier to supply stores
with the latest designs.  “We’ll still have to see results,” Nueno said. “Turning
around the company in one year is too optimistic.”  At least, Casi says, employees are wearing Mango’s clothing
again.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  