-- Harvard Loses to Arizona 74-51 in NCAA Tournament’s Round of 32
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-03-24T06:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/harvard-falls-to-arizona-74-51-in-ncaa-tournament-s-round-of-32.html
Harvard University  was overwhelmed
by a bigger and faster  University of Arizona  74-51, two days
after the Ivy League-champion Crimson scored their first victory
in the men’s college national basketball tournament.  “They pounced on us from the beginning,” said Harvard’s
Christian Webster, who had eight points in yesterday’s game. “I
think it took us by surprise how hard they played, how physical
they were, and like Siyani (Chambers) said, their length and
size and speed. From there it was just an uphill battle.”  Harvard, the 14th seed in the West region, fell behind
40-22 at halftime and was outscored 34-29 in the second half of
the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament Round of
32 game in  Salt Lake City .  Chambers, the rookie of the year in the Ivy League
conference after averaging 12.9 points and an Ivy-best 5.8
assists, was held to six points.  “Film didn’t give them as much credit as they deserved,”
Chambers said. “They were tremendous on defense, their
rotations, their size. Their length was a problem tonight, but
give all the credit to them; they played a great game and they
played great defense.”  Good Journey  Mark Lyons scored 27 points for the Wildcats and Solomon
Hill added 13 points and 10 rebounds.  Arizona  was successful on
27-of-49 field goal attempts, shooting 55 percent, compared with
16 of 58, or 28 percent, for Harvard.  Kenyatta Smith had 10 points and Steve Moundou-Missi
contributed nine for the Crimson.  “This season has obviously been great for us,” Moundou-
Missi said. “We didn’t end the way we wanted to end, but it’s
all about the journey and not the destination.”  The Crimson finished with a 20-10 record, overcoming the
loss of two co-captains in an academic scandal to take the
school’s second outright  Ivy League  basketball title, and
winning for the first time in an NCAA tournament, 68-62 against
 New Mexico  on March 21.  Harvard’s defeat of New Mexico, the No. 3 seed in the 16-
team West region, marked just the second time in seven years
that a 14th seed won its first game.  Doubting Obama  This was the third NCAA tournament appearance for
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Harvard, which has produced twice
as many U.S. presidents (eight) as National Basketball
Association players (four).  Among the doubters of this year’s team was President  Barack Obama , who attended  Harvard Law School  and picked New Mexico to
advance past the Crimson in the  bracket  he filled out before the
tournament.  Harvard failed in its bid to become the second Ivy League
team since 2000 to advance to the Round of 16.  Cornell
University  upset Temple and  Wisconsin  to reach that phase in
2010. Ivy League schools are now 41-77 in NCAA tournament
history, and 3-14 since 2000.  The Crimson finished the regular season 19-9. Last year the
team played its first NCAA tournament game since 1946, falling
to Vanderbilt in the first round.  They returned this year after losing senior co-captains
 Kyle Casey  and Brandyn Curry, who withdrew from the school in
September amid accusations of similarities on the final exams of
about 125 students. More than half the students implicated were
told to withdraw for as long as a year, Harvard said in
February.  Off Game  The absence of Casey, the team’s leading scorer in 2011-12,
and Curry, its starting point guard, cleared the way for the
emergence of Chambers and Wesley Saunders. Saunders, who led the
Ivy League in scoring at 16.5 points a game, was held to eight
points yesterday.  Harvard, which counts Jeremy Lin of the NBA’s  Houston
Rockets  among its basketball alumni, was 0-3 in two NCAA
tournament appearances prior to this year, losing twice in 1946,
when there were consolation games.  After yesterday’s loss, Lin said he was proud of his
college team.  “Surpassed all expectations and a program on the
rise...dont worry, they’ll be back next year!!” he said on his
Twitter site.  The program’s recent revival has come under coach Tommy Amaker, a point guard for  Duke University  in the 1980s who went
on to help the Blue Devils win the NCAA title in 1991 and 1992
as an assistant coach. Harvard was, until the 2010-11 season,
the only school in the eight-team Ivy League to never win or
share the conference title.  “I think in order for us to make this a magical moment for
our team and program, which we have been able to do at other
points in this season, you’ve probably got to get off to a good
start against a team like that and we had our chances,” Amaker
told reporters. “We had some open opportunities early, and once
we missed some we kind of got our heads down and they took
advantage of it.”  Arizona, which finished the season ranked No. 21 in the
Associated Press poll, next plays the winner of tomorrow’s
matchup between Ohio State and Iowa State in the Round of 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  