-- Mayor Bloomberg Unveils $12 Million Ad Campaign for Gun Checks
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-03-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/mayor-bloomberg-unveils-12-million-ad-campaign-for-gun-checks.html
New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
announced a $12 million television ad campaign urging U.S.
senators to support legislation that would expand background
checks for gun purchases.  The ads running in 13 states are intended to encourage
people “to call their senators if they believe that we should
have gun checks that stop criminals and people with mental
illnesses from getting guns,” Bloomberg said yesterday on NBC’s
“Meet the Press” program.  The Senate is preparing an April vote on legislation
including federal aid for school safety, tougher penalties for
gun trafficking and broader background checks for purchases,
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said on
March 21. The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  President  Barack Obama  and some congressional lawmakers are
seeking tighter gun regulations after the Dec. 14 shooting at a
Connecticut elementary school that killed 20 children and six
school employees.  A proposal to expand background checks for gun purchases to
include sales at gun shows is opposed by the  National Rifle
Association  and a number of Republicans in Congress. Polls show
a majority of Americans endorse mandatory background checks.  Senators will consider a ban on assault-weapon sales as an
amendment because supporters lack the necessary votes to include
it in the underlying legislation, Reid said last week.  ‘Difficult Issue’  “I don’t think we should give up on the assault weapons
ban,” Bloomberg, who leads the Mayors Against Illegal Guns
group, said in the NBC interview. “But clearly, it is a more
difficult issue for a lot of people.”  Mayors Against Illegal Guns said in a March 23 news release
that the ads will run in 13 states during the congressional
recess urging senators to support expanded background checks.
The ads are intended to influence 15 senators including  Mark Pryor , an Arkansas Democrat, and  Susan Collins , a Maine
Republican, who both face re-election in 2014.  The coalition is also  planning  100 events across the U.S.
on March 28 as part of its “National Day to Demand Action” on
gun regulations. The events and petition drives are intended to
generate calls to Senate offices to support legislation, the
group said in a news release.  Wayne LaPierre, chief executive officer of the National
Rifle Association, said Bloomberg’s ad campaign will fail to
persuade the public to support gun restrictions.  “They sure don’t want him telling what self-defense
firearms to own,” LaPierre said in an interview on “Meet the
Press” yesterday. “And he can’t buy America.”  The background check system under debate won’t wind up
capturing all purchases, he said.  “The whole thing, universal checks, is a dishonest
premise,” LaPierre said. “Criminals aren’t going to be
checked. They’re not going to do this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  