-- Bank of Israel Holds Rate for 3rd Month as Home Prices Climb
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-03-24T18:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/bank-of-israel-holds-rate-for-third-month-as-home-prices-surge.html
The Bank of  Israel  kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a third month, as policy
makers focus more on climbing domestic home prices than on the
pace of recovery in the global economy.  Governor Stanley Fischer and the monetary policy panel held
the rate at 1.75 percent, the lowest in almost three years, the
Jerusalem-based bank said on its website today. Sixteen of the
21 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg  forecast the decision, while
the remainder predicted a quarter-point cut.  “The decision to hold the rate for another month signals
that the Bank of Israel is more worried about the possibility
that the housing price bubble will balloon than it is about the
economy slowing down and slipping into recession,” Shmuel Ben Arie, head of research at Pioneer Financial Planning, said in an
e-mailed statement.  The Bank of Israel has gradually reduced the borrowing rate
from 3.25 percent in 2011 as the  European debt crisis  crimped
growth in the country’s biggest export market. The monetary
expansion has helped to fuel a jump in housing credit and home
prices, which soared more than 50 percent since 2009.  “The rate of increase in home prices continues to rise,”
the central bank said today. In the 12 months that ended in
January, home prices increase by 8.6 percent, compared with an
increase of 6.7 percent in the 12 months to December, it said.  ‘Mixed’ Global Economy  The central bank also cited the new government’s fiscal
challenges in its decision. To abide by Israeli budgetary rules,
the government must reduce spending commitments this year by 13
billion shekels ($3.6 billion), the central bank said. Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s new government was sworn in last
week, and it has until August to pass a budget.  On the global front, the macroeconomic picture is
“mixed,” the central bank said. Still, it appears that the
likelihood of a global economic crisis is receding, and the high
level of uncertainty that prevailed in the past year has been
reduced, the bank said.  “It is quite probable that the last interest rate change
by the monetary committee led by Governor Fischer is behind
us,” said Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist at Tel Aviv-based
DS Securities & Investments Ltd. “The next step will be a rate
increase, but that step will be decided on by the next governor,
and it probably will happen toward the end of the year.”  Fischer will leave the central bank at the end of June.   Growth Forecast  The economy is forecast to grow by 3.8 percent in 2013,
assuming that natural gas production from the Tamar drilling
site will begin as planned during the second quarter, the
central bank said today. Excluding the natural gas, GDP is
expected to grow by 2.8 percent.  Economic growth  slowed to an annualized 2.4 percent in the
fourth quarter, the slowest in more than three years, as exports
and investment declined. Inflation remained at 1.5 percent in
February, the fifth month it stayed below the midpoint of the
government’s 1 percent to 3 percent target.  The yield on the government’s 4.25 percent benchmark notes
due March 2023 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
to 3.95 percent today, the lowest since March 7, at the close in
Tel Aviv. The shekel strengthened to a 17-month high, gaining
0.3 percent to 3.6550 a dollar on March 22, as Israel renewed
diplomatic ties with  Turkey . Israeli markets will be closed
until March 27 for the Passover holiday.  The central bank imposed tighter regulations on home loans
last month, requiring banks to set aside more capital and
provisions. In October, it set maximum loan-to-value limits for
the first time, after capping variable-rate mortgages at one-
third the value of the total loan six months earlier. In May
2010, it increased provisions for home loans where buyers put up
little equity.  “The Bank of Israel has tried to use supervision and
prudential regulations to slow down bank mortgage lending, but
this has not proved to be effective,” Daniel Hewitt, senior
emerging-market economist at Barclays Plc, said before the
announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  