-- Batista Warns Short Sellers That Bets Against Him Will Backfire
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   A l e x   C u a d r o s
-- 2013-03-25T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/batista-warns-short-sellers-they-ll-regret-bets-against-him.html
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista 
warned short sellers wagering against his companies that they’ll
regret their bets, according to posts on his Twitter account.  Asked by other Twitter users about the companies’ falling
stock prices, Batista wrote on March 23 that “rumors and gossip
are the tools of short sellers,” who will be “caught with
their pants down.” Short sellers borrow shares and sell them in
order to profit from buying them later at a lower price.  Batista posted on Twitter a day after his companies came
under renewed selling pressure on the  Sao Paulo  exchange on
concerns they’re losing access to the financing needed to carry
out investment plans. Shares of  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , Batista’s
shipbuilding and oil services unit, plunged 17 percent to a
record-low 4.88 reais at the close of trading. Oil company  OGX
Petroleo (OGXP3)  & Gas Participacoes SA fell 9.2 percent. OGX has fallen
48 percent this year, and OSX is down 54 percent.  Batista, whose personal wealth has fallen about $25 billion
as the value of his companies declined in the past year, faces
demands from creditors to boost collateral, people familiar with
the matter said last week. OSX is planning to sell $265 million
in secured bonds due in June 2014, a person familiar with the
plans said on March 15.  There is no collateral demand from creditors, said a person
close to Batista's holding company, EBX Group Co., on March 22.  Esteves Interview  Batista’s units have the “necessary funding established
for the coming years,” EBX Group said in an e-mailed statement
on March 19.  In his Twitter posts, Batista referred readers to an
interview with  Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11)  President  Andre Esteves 
published online March 23 by Estado de S. Paulo. Batista’s
companies are in no danger of failing and he remains one of the
best-capitalized businessmen in Brazil, Esteves is quoted by the
Sao-Paulo based newspaper as saying.  Earlier this month, BTG and Batista entered into a
strategic cooperation agreement. BTG has extended Batista credit
lines in the range of 1 billion reais ($498 million), Esteves
said, according to Estado.  Bloomberg News  reported on March 7 that BTG provided a $1
billion  credit line  to EBX, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the agreement.  Asked on Twitter if it’s not time to start talking about
what he is doing with his companies, Batista posted, “We’re
going to turn on the communications engines.” Pointing out that
the port he’s building at Acu in  Rio de Janeiro  state will help
ease logistical logjams, he wrote: “It’s not I who needs help,
it’s Brazil.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  