-- Blackstone, Icahn Bids Said to Let Investors Keep Dell
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-03-24T23:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/blackstone-icahn-bids-said-to-let-investors-keep-dell.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  received proposals from
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and billionaire  Carl Icahn  that would rival
the $24.4 billion leveraged buyout offer from founder Michael
Dell and allow shareholders to keep a stake in the company,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Blackstone outlined an offer valued in excess of $14.25 a
share in cash, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the process is private. The world’s largest
private-equity firm is working with Morgan Stanley, which is
confident it can raise debt to finance the deal, according to
the person. Icahn said he’d pay $15 a share in cash for 58
percent of Dell, the person said.  Two primary complaints of shareholders about the offer from
 Michael Dell , who is working with buyout firm Silver Lake
Management LLC, are that the $13.65-a-share price is too low,
and that they can’t remain invested in the computer company to
profit if its fortunes rebound. By responding to those
criticisms, Blackstone and Icahn may be able to break up a deal
that looked unstoppable when it was announced on Feb. 5.  Michael Dell, 48, is seeking to buy the Round Rock, Texas-
based company he created in 1984 so it can remake itself without
the pressure of being public as it struggles with falling
profits and competition from smartphones and tablets. Competing
offers were initially seen as unlikely. That’s because the
founder could help finance the bid with his 15.6 percent Dell
stake, and because buyout firms are often reluctant to step in
the middle of a rival’s deal.  Financing Commitments  As soon as tomorrow, Dell’s board will say whether the new
non-binding proposals are reasonably likely to be superior, or
that more time is needed to study them, the person said.  Under terms of the original merger agreement, the board
would then have to determine whether either of the counteroffers
is in fact superior. At that point, the bidder would have to get
financing commitments to support its offer. After that, if the
board accepts the new offer, it is required to give Silver Lake
and Michael Dell at least four business days notice to top it.  Blackstone and Icahn submitted their proposals on March 22,
the deadline of a so-called go-shop period designed to solicit
competing bids. Southeastern Asset Management Inc. and  T. Rowe
Price Group Inc. (TROW) , the company’s largest outside investors, were
among the shareholder saying the original deal was too cheap.  Francisco Partners  The stock, which closed on March 22 at $14.14, has climbed
since the LBO was announced amid speculation that Dell would
fetch a higher price. At least five analysts see Michael Dell
increasing the bid to as much as $15 a share. At $15, Dell still
would be going private at about 5.4 times profit, the lowest
multiple for a technology buyout larger than $1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Representatives for Dell, Blackstone, Icahn and Morgan
Stanley declined to comment.  Blackstone, which is working with Francisco Partners LP and
Insight Venture Partners LP, would acquire Dell, while providing
existing shareholders with a chance to roll some of their shares
into a so-called public stub that would give them a piece of the
company, said one of the people. There would be a cap on how
much stock existing shareholders could keep, this person said.
Insight and Francisco Partners couldn’t immediately be reached
for comment.  Blackstone, based in New York, has a better perspective on
Dell after last year hiring Dave Johnson, the company’s former
head of mergers and acquisitions. The firm was considering
several options prior to the go-shop deadline, Bloomberg News
reported previously.  Dell Financial  The company had envisioned a sale of Dell Financial
Services to  General Electric Co. (GE)  or another buyer, the people
said. The unit, which helps Dell customers finance purchases,
wasn’t mentioned in the firm’s proposal, according to one
person. The private-equity firm has also spoken to Southeastern
to see if the firm would be interested in rolling in its stake,
people with knowledge of the talks said.  Icahn’s proposal offers to pay shareholders $15 a share,
said the person with knowledge of his plan. The 77-year-old
activist investor wouldn’t buy the whole company, meaning a
minority stake would still remain in public hands.  Icahn, who has acquired a stake of less than 5 percent in
Dell, had called on the company to pay a special dividend of $9
a share if the Silver Lake deal failed. The New York investor
had said that he’ll start a proxy fight to put up his own board
candidates if Dell refuses.  Tech Deals  Blackstone, led by Stephen Schwarzman, oversees $210.2
billion of assets, the most among global buyout firms. Unlike
Silver Lake, which focuses on technology companies, it hasn’t
done many deals in the industry. Its two biggest haven’t fared
well.  Blackstone and two partners bought Freescale Semiconductor
Inc. for $17.6 billion in 2006. They have registered a more than
50 percent loss on their $7.2 billion investment in the deal,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Blackstone was also
part of a Silver Lake group that paid $10.6 billion for SunGard
Data Systems Inc. in March 2005, a deal that is barely breaking
even.  Michael Dell is seeking to take back majority control of
the company he started in a University of Texas dormitory, after
struggling to equip the PC maker for a new generation of
competitors in mobile and cloud computing. He’s betting that he
can more effectively transform Dell into a provider of a broad
range of products and services for corporations outside the
scrutiny of public investors.  The deal requires the support of more than half of the
company’s investors, excluding Michael Dell.  Offer’s Restrictions  Michael Dell and Silver Lake agreed to a number of
restrictions in an effort to create a deal that would withstand
shareholder scrutiny, people familiar with the matter said last
month. Neither Blackstone nor Icahn mentioned Michael Dell’s
role in their offers, one of the people said.  One restriction on Michael Dell, 48, and Silver Lake is
that they can only make one more bid, the people said. So if
they move to top Blackstone or Icahn once, they are unable to
make a second offer. The breakup fee of $180 million -- which
Blackstone or Icahn would have to pay if they block the deal --
is half of the typical fee for a deal of this size, these people
said.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  also reviewed
Dell’s books during the go-shop period, people familiar with the
matter said.  Dell had last year privately forecast $5.6 billion in
 operating income  for 2014, a figure that is now going to come in
around $3 billion, said one of these people. That rapid fall
could jeopardize the bank loans for Silver Lake, said this
person, if the lenders on the deal made their financing
commitment based on the higher numbers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  