-- Berezovsky, Early Russia Oligarch, Found Dead at U.K. Home
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d   a n d   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-03-24T17:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/boris-berezovsky-early-russia-oligarch-found-dead-at-u-k-home.html
Boris Berezovsky , one of the first
and best-known Russian oligarchs, who accumulated vast wealth
and influence in post-communist  Russia  that he struggled in
later years to retain, was found dead yesterday at his U.K.
home. He was 67.  Tim Bell, Berezovsky’s former public-relations adviser,
confirmed the death when contacted by telephone. Bell said he
had spoken to Berezovsky’s lawyer.  Thames Valley Police, which is continuing the investigation
at the property in Ascot, near London, said today here is no
evidence “at this stage to suggest any third party
involvement” in the death, which remains “unexplained.”  “We are at the early stages of the investigation and we
are retaining an open mind as we progress,” Detective Chief
Inspector  Kevin Brown , deputy senior investigating officer in
the case, said in a statement. “The investigation team are
building a picture of the last days of Mr. Berezovsky’s life,
speaking to close friends and family to gain a better
understanding of his state of mind.”  Once a multibillionaire, Berezovsky was facing mounting
debts and had been entwined in numerous high-profile U.K. court
cases in the previous two years.  ‘Unimpressive’  In August, he lost one of the largest civil suits ever in
U.K. courts to  Roman Abramovich , the owner of Chelsea Football
Club and part of the newer generation of Russian oligarchs.
Following the trial Berezovsky was ordered to pay 35 million
pounds ($53.3 million) in fees to his former ally by a  London 
judge who criticized him for being “unimpressive, and
inherently unreliable.”  In January, Berezovsky’s ex-girlfriend, Helena Gorbunova,
won an asset-freezing order against him that covered two luxury
French properties and her share of a lawsuit settlement, after
saying she was promised money from the sale of an estate in
Surrey,  England , worth 25 million pounds.  “Mr. Berezovsky is a man under financial pressure,” Judge
George Mann said in his Jan. 18 ruling. “It is likely that he
will feel a more pressing need to satisfy creditors than satisfy
Ms. Gorbunova.”  The legal cases were the latest blows to Berezovsky, who
lived in self-imposed exile in the U.K. to avoid potential
prosecution in Russia. Once a close patron of Russian power as a
friend of  Boris Yeltsin , in recent years he sparred publicly
with  Vladimir Putin .  Researcher  Berezovsky was born on Jan. 23, 1946, in Moscow. He was the
only child of a Jewish construction engineer and a pediatric
nurse. At 23, he became a researcher at the Institute of Control
Sciences, a prestigious and safe harbor for Jewish scientists,
according to David E. Hoffman’s “The Oligarchs” (2002).  In 1989, Berezovsky founded his first enterprise, Logovaz,
as Soviet leader  Mikhail Gorbachev  allowed opportunities for
business under his policy of perestroika. The name was a
combination of Italian company, Logosystem SpA, and OAO AvtoVAZ,
Russia’s biggest automaker, reflecting his goal of serving as
their intermediary, according to Hoffman. Logovaz grew into a
dealership chain and later imported Mercedes-Benz cars.  During the Yeltsin era, Berezovsky built his political
influence, serving as Security Council deputy secretary in 1996
to 1997 and as a parliament lawmaker in 1999 to 2000. He was
long a symbol of Russia’s sharp-elbow brand of capitalism: In
1994, a car bomb exploded next to his Mercedes, decapitating his
driver. Berezovsky escaped with burns and continued his business
climb.  Billionaire  Berezovsky gained holdings of companies including OAO
Aeroflot, the nation’s biggest airline, state-run television
channel ORT and the Kommersant publishing house. He claimed
stakes in OAO Sibneft, the oil producer now named OAO Gazprom
Neft, and Russian Aluminum, now part of fellow billionaire  Oleg Deripaska ’s United Co. Rusal.  In a 2000 interview with BusinessWeek, Berezovsky
acknowledged the rare circumstances that permitted him to
accumulate such wealth and power.  “Today, I am at a crossroads,” he said. “Even if I have
more personal possibilities, I probably won’t be able to realize
them because such events will never happen again.”  Rich List  After supporting Putin in his first presidential campaign
in early 2000, Berezovsky fled the country for the U.K. later
the same year and got political asylum three years later.
Berezovsky said in an interview in 2007 that he was worth about
$4 billion and that he was using some his fortune to finance “a
revolution in Russia without blood.”  Forbes magazine dropped the tycoon from its rich list in
2010, after estimating his wealth at $1 billion the previous
year.  In March 2010, Berezovsky won a 150,000-pound libel award
against the Russian Television and Radio Broadcasting Co. and
Vladimir Terluk, a man who told a Russian TV station that
Berezovsky was connected to the poisoning of former KGB agent
 Alexander Litvinenko . Terluk lost an appeal in December 2011.  Litvinenko, a critic of the Kremlin who lived in London,
died in November 2006 about three weeks after he was exposed to
radioactive polonium. Traces of the isotope were later
discovered in at least 12 London locations by the U.K. Health
Protection Agency.  Following the discovery of Berezovsky’s body at his home,
Thames Valley Police deployed officers trained in chemical,
biological, radiological, and nuclear materials to the scene.  “CBRN trained officers have concluded their examination of
a property in Mill Lane, Ascot, following the unexplained death
and have given the scene the all clear,” the force said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  