-- Buying Immigration Reform With Bogus Border Data
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-24T22:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/buying-immigration-reform-with-bogus-border-data.html
At a  hearing  last week in the U.S.
House of Representatives, lawmakers expressed dismay that
Homeland Security officials had yet to devise a simple metric to
measure border security. Indeed, the officials did their best to
avoid being pinned down by a Homeland Security subcommittee,
which met more than two years after their department promised to
produce a metric.  “While enforcement statistics and economic indicators point
to increased security and improved quality of life,” their  joint
testimony  states, “no single metric can conclusively define the
state of border security.”  It’s not clear what exactly Border and Maritime
Subcommittee chairwoman Candice Miller of  Michigan  and ranking
member Sheila Jackson Lee of  Texas  were expecting. Maybe the
crime rate in  San Diego  multiplied by the gross domestic product
in El Paso, divided by the number of apprehensions in Nogales,
 Arizona ? Good luck. Any “measurement” of border security would
be a bogus trick.  The danger is that a metric might have to be conjured to
win passage of comprehensive immigration reform. Many members of
Congress insist that any path to citizenship for the estimated
11 million undocumented people in the U.S. be predicated on
quantifying the security of the nation’s 7,000 miles of land
borders and 95,000 miles of coastline.  “We need to have a measurement,” Senator  John McCain  said
in a hearing this month. Well, here are some numbers: The  Border
Patrol  has more than doubled in size since 2004, to more than
21,000 agents. Electronic surveillance has expanded
exponentially. In 2012, the Border Patrol recorded 364,768
apprehensions, down 50 percent from four years earlier -- a sign
of success because fewer apprehensions with beefed up security
are a result of fewer attempts. All signs point to a
significantly more secure border than the U.S. has ever had.  But the nature of covert activity, including human beings
darting through the night, is that it’s hard to read exactly
what’s going on. Because the goal itself is  impossible , the
means of measuring its achievement will have to be very flexible
indeed. The question then, is whether immigration hardliners
will be willing to accept a series of facts -- apprehensions,
border control staffing and the like -- that paint an
impressionistic picture of border security. Or whether they will
insist on a form of metric flimflam that promises a degree of
specificity about illegal border crossings that no data can
accurately deliver.  It’s no surprise that the Department of  Homeland Security 
isn’t eager to lend its databases and analytics to a border
security charade. Pity then, that for the nation to get a
sensible immigration reform, it just might have to.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 