-- Central African Leader Bozize Flees as Rebels Seize Capital
-- B y   A n t o i n e   L a w s o n   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-03-25T05:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/central-african-leader-bozize-flees-after-rebels-seize-capital.html
Central African Republic President
Francois Bozize fled the capital, Bangui, after the rebel Seleka
movement captured the city.  Bozize, 66, left for an undisclosed location after the
renegade fighters seized Bangui yesterday, Central African
Republic’s consul to Gabon, Claude Ayo-Iguendha, said in an
interview in the Gabonese capital, Libreville. France, which
Ayo-Iguendha said has about 1,200 citizens living in Bangui,
sent troops to the country to help protect them.  French President Francois Hollande boosted “our military
presence in Bangui to ensure, if necessary, the protection of
French residents” after Bozize’s departure, according to a
statement from the president’s office in Paris. He urged “all
parties to remain calm and for talks to take place around the
government formed under the Libreville accord.”  The Central African Republic has been plagued by violence
since independence from France in 1960, with at least four
battles for Bangui taking place from 1996 to 2003, when Bozize
toppled predecessor Ange-Felix Patasse, whom he served as army
chief. Seleka began their rebellion in December after accusing
Bozize of filing to honor a 2008 peace accord. An agreement
signed in Libreville in January ended the fighting. The rebels
resumed combat last week after Bozize failed to meet a new set
of demands.  Rights Abuses  “We are very concerned by the worsening humanitarian
situation in CAR and credible, widespread reports of human
rights abuses by both national security forces and Seleka
fighters,” Victoria Nuland, a spokeswoman for the U.S. State
Department, said in a statement today. “Perpetrators of such
abuses must be held accountable.”  The U.S. is urging the Seleka leadership to establish law
and order and restore basic electric and water services. The
U.S. also wants the Seleka leadership to recognize the
legitimacy of the government and welcomes the continued
engagement of regional leaders from Chad and the Congo Republic
in negotiating a political solution, Nuland said.  The rebels killed an unspecified number of South African
forces on the outskirts of Bangui while they were advancing on
the city yesterday, the South African army said.  “We have suffered some casualties and injuries,”
Brigadier-General Xolani Mabanga, a spokesman for the South
African National Defense Force, said by phone yesterday. “Our
base has been secured.”  Libreville Accord  Soldiers from the Congo Republic, France, Gabon and South
Africa were deployed in the country after the Libreville
agreement was signed. South African President Jacob Zuma
yesterday urged the rebels to respect that accord, according to
a separate statement from the French presidency.  Under the agreement, Bozize’s administration and the rebels
agreed to form a government of national unity. Nicolas Tiangaye,
an opposition leader, was appointed prime minister, while Seleka
was given five Cabinet posts including the Defense Ministry.  Bozize fled by helicopter to Cameroon with his two sons and
an adviser, Xinhua reported, citing Mebe Ngo’o Edgar Alain, an
official in the West African nation’s Defense Ministry. Bozize
left the presidential palace about 30 minutes before it was
seized by the rebels, the news agency said.  Pangea Diamondfields Inc., an Isle of Man-based exploration
company, owns a concession in Central African Republic that is
currently on care and maintenance, according to the company’s
website.  Axmin Inc. (AXM) , a Canadian gold explorer, said Jan. 7 it
delayed plans to open a mine in the country by at least a year
because of the rebellion.  The country has a gross domestic product of about $3.6
billion and earns most of its foreign currency from timber and
diamond exports, according to the CIA World Factbook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Antoine Lawson in Libreville at 
 ankolo@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  