-- Clinton Is Strongest-Ever Frontrunner. If She Runs.
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2013-03-24T15:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/clinton-is-strongest-ever-frontrunner-if-she-runs-.html
Last week, when Hillary Clinton
released a video announcing her support for gay marriage,
Twitter went wild.  It was totally expected -- her husband and daughter took
the same position months earlier -- and didn’t have as much
political import as Ohio Republican Senator Rob Portman’s
announcement this month that he now favors same-sex marriage.  The rules are different for Hillary Clinton. No non-
incumbent in the history of contemporary U.S. presidential
politics ever looked so formidable three years before an
election.  Ask almost any Democrat and the automatic assumption is
that Clinton will be the party’s 2016 nominee; a top West
Virginia Democrat predicts she would carry that state, which
President  Barack Obama  lost 62 percent to 35 percent in 2012.
Ask most Republicans who has the best shot to be the 45th
President, and they’ll acknowledge it is Clinton.  In conversations last week with more than a half dozen
Clinton associates -- people who know her very well politically
or personally -- there was a consensus: She’s more likely to run
than not. The presidential bug hasn’t left her and she
passionately wants to see a woman president. Still, her
candidacy isn’t a foregone conclusion; those who say they know,
don’t; and there are several pressing questions outstanding.  Health Questions  First is her health. She just went through a fairly serious
illness in December that sidelined her for a month. She
developed a blood clot, an ailment she had suffered at least
once before. Doctors who stress they have no knowledge of her
particular condition say a pattern of clots is worrisome.  She’ll turn 69 a week before the 2016 election -- younger
than Ronald Reagan in 1980 or John McCain in 2008, and questions
about her age reflect sexism. But questions about whether she
can still bring her extraordinary vibrancy to any political task
don’t.  Then there’s the health of the country in a few years. If
the economy continues to improve and the world is relatively
stable, her credentials to succeed and expand on Obama’s record,
to build a more prosperous middle class and enhance America’s
global standing, will be potent.  If the world economy deteriorates and U.S. unemployment
hits double digits again or if there’s a conflict in the Middle
East or on the Korean Peninsula, all bets are off.  Over the past 60 years, only once, in 1988, has an
incumbent party been given more than eight consecutive years in
the White House.  Finally, what did she learn from the 2008 primary run? It
was a disaster. She sought to inherit the nomination rather than
capture it. She ran as a tough, hawkish, establishment candidate
when most Democrats wanted an antiwar, anti-establishment
nominee. Her campaign dissolved into chaos as she stubbornly
refused to change. Ultimately, she dumped her campaign manager
and the chief strategist of the flawed effort, but it was too
late.  Would she pick better people next time and master the
profound changes in political elections? She might start with
Sasha Issenberg’s book, “The Victory Lab,” which describes the
analytical revolution in U.S. politics. In 1991, there was a so-
called “Carville primary,” as Democratic contenders vied for
the services of the hottest political consultant, James Carville.  The equivalent this time might be the Teddy Goff primary,
to earn the assistance of the digital wunderkind who directed
social media for the Obama campaign.  Global Role  Then, unlike in 2008, Clinton would have to adopt a
strategy that fits the times. There is no need for her to rush.
She’s selectively staying in touch with key players, is expected
to write a book, settle into a role in a nonprofit focusing on
global and domestic issues of prime concern and get some rest.  One of the reasons Democrats are so eager for Clinton to
run is that they have a weak bench. Vice President Joe Biden,
popular within the party and a loyal and important Obama
lieutenant, would be almost 74 on Election Day 2016. That’s four
years older than Reagan was in 1980, when he was the oldest man
ever elected president.  New York  Governor Andrew Cuomo’s incurs animosity with more
than a few national Democrats and his controlling, secretive
ways would be a challenge in a national campaign. Maryland
Governor Martin O’Malley, attractive and articulate, doesn’t
seem ready for prime time.  Democrats have a long tradition of upending frontrunners by
picking nominees such as George McGovern, Jimmy Carter and
Obama. Hierarchical Republicans usually go with the
establishment candidate. Thus the cliche that Republicans like
to fall in line and Democrats like to fall in love.  With Clinton -- who has rebounded from a defeat better than
any recent presidential aspirant, including Reagan post-1976 --
Democrats want to fall in line. Republicans are desperate to
find a candidate to love.  There are more than 1,000 days before any votes are cast.
Another cliche is more telling: That’s an eternity in politics.  (Albert R. Hunt is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at   ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 