-- Congo Rebel Attack in Katanga Province Leaves 35 Dead, UN Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-03-24T13:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/congo-rebel-attack-in-katanga-province-leaves-35-dead-un-says.html
At least 35 people died in the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo yesterday when a separatist militia
attacked the capital of copper-rich Katanga province, the United
Nations mission in the country said.  The Kata Katanga militia group fought with the army and
police in the city of Lubumbashi before forcing their way into a
UN compound and surrendering, the UN said in an e-mailed
statement today. A total of 245 combatants should be transferred
to the Congolese government today, it said.  “The situation in the city has been calm but tense
overnight,” the statement said. Fifty-four injured rebels were
sent to the hospital and no UN employees were harmed, it said.  Lubumbashi is a hub for many of Congo’s biggest mining
companies, which include  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  and
 Glencore International Plc. (GLEN)  The Central African nation produces
more than 3 percent of the world’s copper and half its cobalt,
most of which comes from Katanga.  Kata Katanga, which means “cut out Katanga” in the
Swahili language, is one of several local militias, or Mai Mai
groups, operating in the province. Secession movements began in
Katanga within days of Congo’s independence from  Belgium  on June
30, 1960. Since then, Katangan rebel groups supporting
secession have periodically fought the central government.  More than 300,000 people have fled Mai Mai attacks in
central Katanga, north of Lubumbashi, mostly in the past year,
according to the UN.  While the insecurity is most extreme within an area rich in
tin ore between the towns of Manono, Pweto and Mitwaba, the
humanitarian effects have spread to half of Katanga’s 22
territories, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs said in a March 8 report.  Civilians have been subject to “deliberate attacks,
assassinations, burning of villages, child recruitment, rapes,
and illegal taxation,” the report said. “The weak presence of
Congolese police and UN peacekeepers does not bode well for a
rapid improvement in terms of protection.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  