-- Danish Interest-Only Mortgage Jolt Threatens Market, S&P Says
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-03-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/danish-interest-only-mortgage-jolt-threatens-market-s-p-says.html
Denmark ’s mortgage system faces 
potentially destabilizing shocks as borrowers who rely on
interest-only terms need to start amortizing their debt as
early as this year,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  The government rejected a plan by mortgage banks last 
week to split troubled loans and extend interest-only terms 
for amounts below an 80 percent loan-to-value limit. The 
decision means the industry must now head back to the 
drawing board to figure out how to save borrowers who can’t 
afford to start repaying their principal.  “This challenge could destabilize the Danish mortgage
market as borrowers face potential dramatic increases in their
mortgage payments when their initial 10-year interest-only
periods expire,” S&P said in a note released for publication
today. “This in turn could lead to a sharp increase in arrears
and potential foreclosures.”  The government's decision followed talks with mortgage
industry representatives on how to treat borrowers who will
breach regulatory loan-to-value limits once amortization
requirements kick in this year. Home owners are struggling
as a deepening property slump drives  house prices  down to 2005
levels.  “The results of our analysis clearly show that the
popularity of interest-only loans, combined with falling house
prices, has led to increased LTV ratios for these loans,” S&P
said. “Breaches of these LTV ratios are likely to cause a
considerable increase in the number of borrowers needing to
amortize their mortgages.”  Housing Bubble  Since Denmark's housing bubble burst in 2008, property 
values have sunk more than 20 percent, making banks less likely 
to extend debt terms that have freed borrowers of the obligation 
to pay down their principal. More than 100,000 households may 
need to have special terms negotiated, according to a February 
study by the University of Southern Denmark.  “Although the magnitude of the LTV ratio breaches remains
manageable for now, current low  interest rates , tax incentives,
and Denmark’s weak economy mean that any incentives for
borrowers to amortize remain limited,” S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  