-- Dell Said to Get Rival Buyout Bids From Blackstone, Icahn
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-03-25T01:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/dell-said-to-get-rival-buyout-bids-from-blackstone-icahn.html
(Corrects terms of go-shop period in sixth, 20th
paragraphs.)  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and activist
investor  Carl Icahn  submitted proposals to buy  Dell Inc. (DELL)  that
would rival a $24.4 billion buyout offer from Silver Lake
Management LLC and company founder Michael Dell, according to
people with knowledge of the matter.  Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity firm,
outlined an offer valued in excess of $14.25 a share in cash,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the process is private. Blackstone is working with Morgan
Stanley, which is confident it can raise debt to finance the
deal, according to the person. Icahn said he’d pay $15 a share
in cash for 58 percent of the company’s stock, the person said.  The proposals present unexpectedly serious challenges to
 Michael Dell ’s effort to take private the Round Rock, Texas-
based computer maker he created in 1984 as it struggles with
competition from smartphones and tablets. Unlike the founder’s
offer, both rival plans give shareholders a way to participate
in any potential upside, addressing criticism from investors who
deemed the buyout offer of $13.65 a share as too low.  It’s also rare for one private-equity firm to seek to break
up another’s deal. The strengths of Michael Dell’s offer include
his participation and his decision to roll over his 15.6 percent
stake to help finance the purchase.  Financing Commitments  It may take weeks before Silver Lake and Michael Dell need
to decide to make a new offer, the person said. Tomorrow, Dell’s
board will say whether the new proposals are reasonably likely
to be superior, or most likely say it needs more time to study
the offers, said one of the people.  Under terms of the original Feb. 5 merger agreement with
Silver Lake, the board would then take time to determine whether
the counteroffers are superior. At that point the bidders would
have to get financing commitments to support their offer. After
that, if the board accepts the new offer, it is required to give
Silver Lake and Michael Dell at least four business days notice
to top it.  Blackstone and Icahn submitted their proposals on March 22,
the deadline of a so-called go-shop period designed to solicit
competing bids for Dell. Southeastern Asset Management Inc. and
 T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW) , the company’s largest outside
investors, have said the original deal is too cheap.  The stock, which closed on March 22 at $14.14, has climbed
since the leveraged buyout was announced amid speculation that
Dell would fetch a higher price.  A spokesman for the Dell special committee running the go-
shop process didn’t return calls or e-mails seeking comment.
David Frink, a spokesman for Dell, Christine Anderson, a
spokeswoman for New York-based Blackstone, and Icahn declined to
comment. Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley,
also declined to comment.  Francisco Partners  Dell isn’t planning to disclose whether it received bids
until tomorrow, people familiar with the matter have said.  Blackstone, which is working with Francisco Partners LP and
Insight Venture Partners LP, would acquire Dell’s shares
offering existing shareholders to roll in their shares in a so-
called public stub, with a cap on how much stock they can keep,
said one of the people. Insight and Francisco Partners weren’t
immediately reachable for a comment.  Blackstone, which last year hired Dave Johnson, Dell’s
former head of mergers and acquisitions, was considering several
options prior to the go-shop deadline, Bloomberg News reported
previously. The firm had explored making a bid with private-
equity firm TPG Capital, said people familiar with the matter.
TPG isn’t part of the group that submitted the proposal, said
one person.  Dell Financial  Blackstone had envisioned a sale of the Dell Financial to
 General Electric Co. (GE)  or another bidder, the people said. The
unit’s sale wasn’t mentioned in the firm’s proposal, according
to one person. The private-equity firm has also spoken to
Southeastern to see if the firm would be interested in rolling
in its stake, people with knowledge of the talks said.  Icahn’s proposal offers to pay shareholders $15 a share,
said the person with knowledge of his plan. The 77-year-old
billionaire would limit his cash outlay, meaning a minority
stake of the company could still remain in public hands.  Icahn, who has acquired a stake of less than 5 percent in
Dell, has called on Dell to pay a special dividend of $9 a share
if the Silver Lake deal failed. He has said that he’ll start a
proxy fight to put up his own board candidates if Dell refuses.  Public Participation  Blackstone, led by Stephen Schwarzman, oversees $210.2
billion of assets, the most among global buyout firms. Unlike
Silver Lake, which focuses on technology companies, it hasn’t
done many deals in the industry. Its two biggest haven’t fared
well.  Blackstone and two partners bought Freescale Semiconductor
Inc. for $17.6 billion in 2006. They have registered a more than
50 percent loss on their $7.2 billion investment in the deal,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Blackstone was also
part of a Silver Lake group that paid $10.6 billion for SunGard
Data Systems Inc. in March 2005, a deal that is barely breaking
even.  Michael Dell is seeking to take back majority control of
the company he started in a University of Texas dormitory, after
struggling to equip the PC maker for a new generation of
competitors in mobile and cloud computing. He’s betting that he
can more effectively transform Dell into a provider of a broad
range of products and services for corporations outside the
scrutiny of public investors.  The deal requires the support of more than half of the
company’s investors, excluding Michael Dell.  Offer’s Restrictions  Michael Dell and Silver Lake agreed to a number of
restrictions in an effort to create a deal that would withstand
shareholder scrutiny, people familiar with the matter said last
month. One is that Michael Dell, 48, and Silver Lake can only
make one more bid, the people said. So if they move to top
Blackstone or Icahn once, they are unable to make a second
offer. The breakup fee of $180 million -- which Blackstone or
Icahn would have to pay if they block the deal --is half of the
typical fee for a deal of this size, these people said.  Neither Blackstone nor Icahn mentioned Michael Dell’s role
in their offers, one of the people said.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  also reviewed
Dell’s books during the go-shop period, people familiar with the
matter said.  Dell had last year privately forecast $5.6 billion in
 operating income  for 2014, a figure that is now going to come in
around $3 billion, said one of these people. That rapid fall
could jeopardize the bank loans for Silver Lake, said this
person, if the lenders on the deal made their financing
commitment based on the higher numbers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Carey in  New York  at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  