-- DP World Plans Expansion in Latin America, Africa, Chairman Says
-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2013-03-24T06:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/dp-world-plans-expansion-in-latin-america-africa-chairman-says.html
DP World Ltd. (DPW) , the world’s third-
largest port operator, wants to expand in  Latin America  and
Africa as cost of investment in the U.S. remains high, the
Dubai-based company’s chairman said.  “We are well placed in Latin America in key markets,”
Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem said in an interview March 22. “There
are other markets we would like to go to. We do negotiate with
certain countries in Latin American to acquire ports.” He
declined to specify which countries.  DP World, which operates more than 60 terminals in six
continents, said March 7 it made $249 million from asset sales
in  Australia , Europe and the Middle East. The company said it’s
selling stakes in two container terminals and a logistics center
in Hong Kong for $742 million as part of a reshuffle of assets
in favor of fast-growing  emerging markets .  The port operator posted a 21 percent jump in 2012 profit.
Gross container volumes rose 2 percent to 56 million twenty-foot
equivalent units during the year, while consolidated throughput
increased 1 percent to 27 million TEUs.      Growth came from
the  Middle East , Africa, Latin America, and part of the  Far
East , bin Sulayem said. DP World didn’t’ see “that much growth
still” in its European business, he said.  Uncertain Markets  For 2013, there are “uncertainties in the market,”
including concerns about fuel and energy costs needed to run the
operation, bin Sulayem said. “All I can only talk about are the
first two months of this year, which we did exactly according to
what we expected. The rest of the year, we have to see.”  DP World isn’t expanding into the U.S., the world’s largest
economy, as the cost of investment in ports deters the company,
bin Sulayem said. “So far, we haven’t seen a feasible project
in the States for us. It is very expensive to invest in the
U.S.”  The company is confident about the European economy, bin
Sulayem said. “ Europe  is going to come back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  