-- Theravance Seen Luring Glaxo Bid as Drugs Near FDA Nod: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-03-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/theravance-seen-luring-glaxo-bid-as-drugs-near-fda-nod-real-m-a.html
Theravance Inc. (THRX) ’s projected U.S.
approval for its respiratory drugs is fueling speculation of an
almost threefold revenue surge and a takeover bid from partner
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   As two of the treatments developed with Glaxo come up for
review by the Food and Drug Administration this year, Robert W.
Baird & Co. pegs the odds of clearance at about 70 percent, an
outcome that may spur Theravance’s larger partner to pursue a
takeover. The lung-disease drugs Breo and Anoro -- which Piper
Jaffray Cos. projects may have annual sales of more than $2
billion and $4 billion, respectively -- are poised to help drive
a 174 percent increase in Theravance’s  revenue  by 2016,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s a good chance they will get acquired,” Ronny Gal, a New York-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
said in a telephone interview. Glaxo “has a history of buying
partners after the products have been approved and they feel
fairly confident the product will do well.”  Theravance formed an alliance with Glaxo a  decade ago  to
develop respiratory treatments to supplement the largest U.K.
drugmaker’s aging best-seller, Advair. Glaxo now owns a 27
percent  stake  in the $2.2 billion company. With revenue growth
forecast to outpace 86 percent of U.S. biotechnology and
specialty drug peers, Theravance may even lure private-equity
firms or RP Management LLC, the investor in drug royalty streams
known as Royalty Pharma, said Piper Jaffray. Analysts estimate
Theravance could draw an 85 percent premium -- double the
industry average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chronic Bronchitis  Cheryllyn De Ocampo, a spokeswoman for Theravance, declined
to comment on whether the South San Francisco, California-based
company would consider a sale or had held discussions with
potential buyers about a deal.  Sarah Spencer, a spokeswoman for Glaxo in London, declined
to comment on whether the company is interested in acquiring the
rest of Theravance.  Breo is a once-daily treatment for chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, an umbrella term for emphysema and chronic
bronchitis often caused by cigarette smoking. Since Breo and
Anoro share a key component, their fates are closely tied, and
the FDA advisory committee meeting on  April 17  to review Breo
should indicate the likelihood of the second drug gaining
clearance, Brian Skorney of Baird said in a phone interview.  Approval Probability  “There’s reason to be optimistic that the probability is
greater that it will get approved than won’t get approved,” the
New York-based analyst said of Breo.  The committee meeting was rescheduled from March 7 due to
weather. As of March 14, Theravance still expected a regulatory
decision on Breo May 12 and for Anoro on Dec. 18.  Anoro, which includes the same medication used in Breo to
relax the  airways , has an 80 percent chance of gaining U.S.
approval, slightly more than Breo’s 75 percent odds, according
to Bernstein’s Gal.  On March 4, Theravance shares rose 16 percent, the most in
11 months, after Ian Somaiya, a New York-based analyst at Piper
Jaffray, wrote in a note to clients that Glaxo may consider
buying full control of the company after Anoro is granted
clearance. The stock is up  22 percent  in the last year.  Glaxo is a logical buyer because of its existing
relationship with Theravance, according to Les Funtleyder, a
health-industry analyst at New York-based investment firm
Poliwogg LLC. Almost a year ago, Glaxo boosted its stake in
Theravance to 27 percent from 18 percent.  Glaxo’s Advair  “This is a company that’s behaving like a motivated
buyer,” Somaiya said in a phone interview. Approval of Breo and
Anoro would be “an ideal entry point” for a takeover.  Glaxo’s Advair, the world’s best-selling drug for smoker’s
cough and asthma with global sales of $8 billion last year, is
set to lose patent protection in Europe this year after it
already lapsed in the U.S. in 2010.  Expanding its respiratory offerings could help Glaxo fend
off market share attacks from competing products, such as
Novartis AG’s once-a-day Arcapta Neohaler and a twice-daily
product from London-based  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , Somaiya said.  Theravance, which currently  markets  the pneumonia treatment
Vibativ, reported $136 million in revenue for 2012. As its
respiratory disease drugs come on the market, analysts project
that amount will increase by 174 percent to $372 million in
2016, compared with median revenue growth of 75 percent for U.S.
biotechnology and specialty pharmaceutical companies that had at
least $100 million of sales in the last 12 months, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Royalty Fees  With Somaiya estimating peak annual sales of more than $2
billion for Breo and more than $4 billion for Anoro, royalty
fees paid to Theravance could exceed $600 million a year.  For Glaxo,“it makes a lot of sense to just buy the
assets,” Bernstein’s Gal said. “It’s just the math. Would you
rather pay royalties or pay a one-time fee?”  Glaxo has a track record of acquiring the companies with
which it collaborates on the development of new treatments. Last
year Glaxo bought the 80 percent of Cellzome it didn’t already
own, and it also succeeded with a $3 billion bid for Human
Genome Sciences Inc., its partner on the lupus treatment
Benlysta.  “Health care is a pretty transaction-heavy industry,”
Funtleyder said in a phone interview. “All pharmaceutical
companies need products and pipelines.”  Takeover Price  Skorney and Gal both estimate that Theravance could fetch
$35 to $40 a share in a takeover, while Somaiya said bids may be
as high as $51.  An average estimate of $42 a share equates to 85 percent
more than last week’s closing price of $22.74. That compares
with the average premium of 42 percent offered in biotechnology
takeovers of more than $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Theravance may also appeal to pharmaceutical companies
seeking a foothold in respiratory treatments, private-equity
firms or New York-based Royalty Pharma, according to Somaiya.  “It’s such an attractive opportunity,” he said. “It’s
literally a free call option on the pipeline and an acquisition
that’s paid for by the royalty stream of the respiratory
franchise.”  Alexander von Perfall, a spokesman for Royalty Pharma,
didn’t respond to a phone message or e-mail seeking comment.  While there’s no guarantee that Breo and Anoro will gain
regulatory approval, Skorney of Baird said Glaxo is likely to
eventually seek a deal, even without immediately regulatory
approval, because of its investment in the development of the
regulatory drugs.  “Glaxo is not going to get out of respiratory,” he said.
“Since all of their three most advanced, most significant
programs Theravance has a royalty interest in, at some point,
for a certain value, Glaxo would buy them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  