-- European Leaders in Lapland Signal Confidence in Cyprus Talks
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-03-24T14:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/european-leaders-in-lapland-signal-confidence-in-cyprus-talks.html
European leaders meeting in Finnish
Lapland this weekend expressed confidence that a financial
collapse in Cyprus can be averted, saying Europe has proved its
ability to deal with crises.  “It’s necessary to reach an agreement and I’m sure that
the finance ministers will find a solution,” Finnish Prime
Minister  Jyrki Katainen  told reporters in Saariselkae. “We have
learned to deal with sovereign crises.”  Euro-area finance ministers will meet today to decide
whether Cyprus has done enough for a 10 billion-euro ($13
billion) bailout. The third-smallest economy in the 17-nation
euro region was plunged into chaos last week when its lawmakers
rejected a proposal to impose levies on all  bank deposits  in
order to qualify for the bailout funds. A levy on deposits over
100,000 euros is now being examined.  “There will probably be some turbulence in Europe in the
financial markets, but we wouldn’t expect any major long-term
implications,” Latvia’s Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said.  Still, Turkey’s Deputy Prime Minister, Ali Babacan, said
the Cyprus bailout “should not set a precedent.”  “We would never like to see the same methodology used in
other countries, in the euro zone or outside of it,” he said.  Leaders including Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning- Schmidt and Croatian Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic  attended the
meeting, hosted by Katainen and Finland’s Europe Minister
Alexander Stubb. Topics included the European Union’s
fundamental values, economic issues, defense pacts, trade
agreements and structural reforms to boost confidence in the
region, according to Katainen.  The attendance list narrowed just days before the meeting
started as the situation in Cyprus worsened. Last-minute
cancellations included  Joerg Asmussen , a member of the  European
Central Bank ’s executive board, Greece’s Prime Minister Antonis
Samaras and Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  