-- Euro Drops on Cyprus Turmoil; U.S. Stock Futures Little Changed
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-03-24T22:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/euro-drops-on-cyprus-turmoil-u-s-stock-futures-little-changed.html
The euro weakened as finance
ministers from the currency bloc gathered in Brussels to decide
whether Cyprus is doing enough to win a bailout needed to avert
its financial collapse. U.S. stock futures were little changed.  The shared currency slipped 0.2 percent to $1.2966 as of
9:07 a.m. in Sydney, and fell against 11 of 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures were
little changed. Futures on  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average and
 Australia ’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  both gained 0.5 percent. Gold and
palladium climbed 0.1 percent.  Leaders of the Mediterranean island nation are trying to
agree on terms for a 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) bailout with
euro-area finance ministers, the European Central Bank and
International Monetary Fund. The ECB set a deadline of today for
a deal to be struck, threatening to cut off emergency funding to
Cypriot banks.  “There’s a bit of disappointment that there’s no agreement
on Cyprus, so that’s weakened the euro and spurred general gains
for the U.S. dollar,” said Mike Jones, a currency strategist at
Bank of New Zealand in Wellington.  The euro dropped 0.7 percent against the dollar last week,
the most since the period ended March 1, and tumbled 1.5 percent
versus the yen as officials discussed a rescue of Cyprus’s
banking system and data suggested the economy in the region that
shares the currency is worsening.  A rescue package hammered out March 16 in Brussels fell
apart three days later when the Cypriot parliament rejected a
tax on all bank accounts on the island, forcing Cyprus to hunt
for other sources of the 5.8 billion euros demanded by the
creditors. A Cypriot mission to  Russia , the island’s biggest
foreign investor, failed to come up with an alternative. Finance
Minister Michael Sarris said March 23 that bank-deposit levies
are back on the table.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in the euro-region services and manufacturing industries fell to
46.5 in March from 47.9 in February, London-based Markit
Economics said March 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  