-- Euro Weakens to 4-Month Low on Cypriot Fallout; Yen Rises
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-03-25T19:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/euro-weakens-versus-dollar-as-cyprus-bailout-deadline-approaches.html
The euro fell to a four-month low
versus the dollar as the Cyprus bailout plan added to concern
about the safety of the region’s bond holdings and deposits.  The 17-nation currency pared losses as Dutch Finance
Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said Cyprus is a specific case,
contradicting a Reuters report that Dijsselbloem called the
bailout a model for  Europe . The bailout plan will see Cyprus
Popular Bank Plc wound down, wiping out bondholders, and will
impose losses on some depositors at  Bank of Cyprus Plc. (BOCY)  The yen
erased losses before central bank Governor Haruhiko Kuroda
speaks to lawmakers tomorrow.  “There’s a queue of concerns that remain for the single
currency, even if we were to see any type of concern about
Cyprus abate,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at
Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co.,
said in a telephone interview. “The region’s stuck in
recession.”  The euro weakened 0.9 percent to $1.2870 as of 2:31 p.m. in
New York, after touching the least since Nov. 22. Europe’s
shared currency dropped 1.4 percent to 121.04 yen. Japan’s
currency rallied 0.4 percent to 94.04 per dollar.  Won Gains  South Korea’s currency strengthened as the Cyprus agreement
eased concern Europe’s debt crisis will escalate. The won rose
0.8 percent to 1,110.85 per dollar.  The shekel gained as much as 0.9 percent to the greenback
after the  Bank of Israel  kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged for a third month, as policy makers focus more on
climbing domestic  home prices  than on the pace of recovery in
the global economy.  Israel ’s currency rose 0.6 percent to 3.6323 to the dollar.  The  Cyprus accord  spares bank accounts below the insured
limit of 100,000 euros ($128,550). It imposes losses that two
European Union officials said would be no more than 40 percent
on uninsured depositors at Bank of Cyprus, which will take over
the viable assets of Cyprus Popular Bank.  The  European Central Bank  said it won’t stop the Cypriot
central bank from providing the island’s banking sector with
emergency funding.  European Bonds  Yields on Spanish 10-year bonds rose 10 basis points to
4.96 percent, snapping three days of a declines, and those of
 Italy  increase 10 basis points to 4.61 percent.  “We wish to stay in the  euro zone  but leaving the euro
zone now is a valid point that has to be explored,” Nicholas
Papadopoulos, chairman of the parliamentary finance committee,
said in a Bloomberg television interview. “We are going to
enter into a very deep recession, high unemployment with no
prospect of growth and we need to examine if there are other
ways to solve these hurdles.”  The euro sank 0.7 percent against the dollar last week and
tumbled 1.5 percent versus the yen, the most since the five days
ended Feb. 8, as Cyprus talks coincided with data signaling the
trading bloc’s economy is worsening.  “What people are more worried about, which is really
deterring people from going back into the euro zone in size, is
the fact that a lot of trust has been broken,”  Geoffrey Yu , a
senior currency strategist at UBS AG in London, said in a
telephone interview. “People are wary about the future of the
euro at this point because of the precedents that have been
established.”  Market Measure  The euro fell 1.1 percent in the past month, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The yen dropped 2 percent, while
the dollar rose 0.6 percent.  The yen rallied, erasing an earlier loss, as investors
sought the currency as a haven. Kuroda said last week at his
inaugural press conference as Japan’s central bank chief that
he’ll do whatever it takes to achieve a 2 percent inflation
target.  “We do expect fireworks from Kuroda come his first policy
meeting” on April 3-4, said Callum Henderson, the head of
currency research at Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore . One
option for Kuroda would be to announce an earlier start to open-
ended asset purchases originally set for 2014, which may help
push the dollar to 102 yen in the second quarter, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  