-- Faster Growth Could End Fed’s War on Deflation
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2013-03-24T22:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/faster-growth-could-end-fed-s-war-on-deflation.html
The aggressive stimulus programs
undertaken by the  Federal Reserve  have partly been motivated by
a growing fear of deflation.  About a decade ago, 12 of the Fed’s top economists were
assigned to a study of  deflation  in  Japan . They concluded that
the best way to combat chronically falling prices was to
initiate a huge stimulus, and quickly. That’s exactly what the
central bank has done.  The Fed worried that deflation would impede its efforts to
create inflation-adjusted real  interest rates  that were negative
as a way to encourage people to borrow. Because central-bank
target rates can’t go below zero, real rates are always positive
when price indexes are falling. This has long been a problem in
Japan.  Yet because the consumer-price index is still rising, the
real federal-funds rate has been negative since shortly after
the Fed cut the nominal rate to essentially zero. This hasn’t
spurred a surge of borrowing. Just consider the excess reserves
of $1.7 trillion on the commercial banks’ accounts at the Fed.  Furthermore, the Fed is concerned that if chronic deflation
sets in, it will be unable to raise  interest rates . That, in
turn, means the central bank would have no room to cut rates as
it would prefer when the next bout of economic weakness occurs.  Buyers’ Expectations  Central bankers also fear deflationary expectations, which
translate into buyers delaying purchases in expectation of lower
prices, exacerbating excess inventories and overcapacity, and
forcing prices down. Their suspicions confirmed, prospective
buyers wait even longer, and a downward price spiral
develops. Despite the Fed’s alarm, this pattern hasn’t emerged
in Japan, even though prices have fallen more often than they
have risen in the past two decades.  The Fed is always concerned that deflation will increase
the real value of debt, which would strain the economy. Debt
remains unchanged in nominal terms but as prices fall, the cost
increases in real terms. Under such economic circumstances, the
incomes and cash flows of debtors usually fall in nominal terms
and their ability to service their debt becomes questionable.  This is similar to what is happening to homeowners who
can’t make monthly  mortgage payments  because their incomes have
been reduced by job loss, pay cuts or moves to lower-paying
jobs, while their mortgage payments remain fixed.  Congress and the administration also hate deflation because
it reduces nominal  revenue  as corporate profits and household
incomes fall, and taxpayers descend into lower tax brackets.  Deflation also causes the real cost of federal debt to
rise, and undermines taxpayers’ ability to service and repay
it. This is the opposite of inflation, which has prevailed since
the 1930s, and explains why the real  federal debt  has risen
slower than its nominal counterpart.  Some critics suggest there is a government conspiracy to
promote inflation to reduce the real value of debt. In
conversations with policy makers over the years, I have never
heard even the slightest hint that such a policy existed. In
fact, there is far more worry about the disruptive effects of
inflation on the economy. Also, the ability of inflation to
reduce real federal debt is mitigated by the related increases
in the cost of government purchases and benefit payments.  What is the root cause of any future deflation? Aggregate
price deflation results from an excess supply of goods and
services compared with demand. Monetarists, influenced by the
work of  Milton Friedman , believe that inflation (or deflation)
is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon. That hypothesis
ignores the supply-demand balance that is the foremost
determinant of the money supply.  Monetary Policy  Those who hold that money is the prime mover must see the
monetary authorities of the early 1940s as irresponsible idiots
for allowing the money supply to explode and induce major
inflation. During World War II,  monetary policy  was merely the
handmaiden of fiscal policy.  With so much of the economy’s production then going to the
military, there was limited output of civilian goods and
services, far less than purchasing power in the fully employed
economy. The government didn’t want to risk damping patriotic
spirit by raising taxes to soak up the surplus income and
finance the war effort. Instead, it resorted to selling war
bonds and allowed a huge increase in the  money supply . The
inflationary response to this policy occurred after wartime
price-and-wage controls were removed.  Furthermore, the fairly steady 3 percent annual increases
in the M2 money supply in Japan in the past two decades haven’t
prevented chronic deflation, even with huge increases in
government debt. Both monetary and fiscal stimulus has been
swamped by increased savings by Japanese consumers and subdued
spending by households in the 1990s and, more recently, by the
business sector.  Similarly, in the U.S., monetary and fiscal actions haven’t
overcome private-sector deleveraging. Not only does economic
growth remain weak, but inflation has essentially disappeared.  For the U.S., general price deflation is the likeliest
scenario in future years. Fiscal-stimulus programs are shrinking
as a result of the budget battles in  Washington , and Congress
and  Barack Obama ’s administration appear to be serious about
containing the deficits produced by the retirement of the  baby
boomers .  The Fed is committed to open-ended quantitative easing
until a 6.5 percent unemployment rate is reached, and as long as
inflation remains subdued.  But when deleveraging ends and normal economic growth
resumes, the central bank will be forced to eliminate the huge
excess reserves. The current fiscal and monetary offsets to the
powerful deflationary forces are temporary.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and the author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment
Strategies for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The
opinions expressed are his own. This is the third in a five-part
series. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2  and  Part 4 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  