-- Foreign Reserve Drop Imperils Indonesia Subsidy: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-03-24T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/foreign-reserve-drop-imperils-indonesia-subsidy-southeast-asia.html
Indonesian foreign-exchange
reserves will probably plunge the most since at least the Asian
financial crisis this quarter, putting pressure on President
Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono to cut fuel subsidies and curb imports.  The country’s  reserves  may fall by at least $2 billion in
March, according to economists at Barclays Plc,  PT Bank Danamon
Indonesia (BDMN)  and  PT Bank Central Asia. (BBCA)  The $7.6 billion drop in the
first two months of 2013 was the largest since 1998, when
Bloomberg began compiling the data. Yudhoyono has said changes
to the fuel subsidy policy may be worked out within days.  The government has struggled to curb demand for oil imports,
which contributed to a record  trade deficit  in October and the
worst-performing currency in  Asia  excluding the yen in the past
12 months. Even with one of the region’s fastest growth rates
boosting incomes, policy makers have refrained from raising fuel
prices in a country where riots spurred by soaring living costs
helped oust dictator Suharto in 1998.  “If there’s no reform on fuel subsidies, the higher oil
imports will impact the forex reserve and increase the need to
intervene to stabilize the rupiah,” said  Anton Gunawan , chief
economist at Bank Danamon in Jakarta. “Investors are worried
about issues such as the current-account deficit and the subsidy
problem -- they’re triggering capital outflows.”  The rupiah weakened 0.4 percent against the dollar last
week, its third weekly decline and the longest losing streak
since November, as global funds sold the nation’s assets on
concern inflation will accelerate and the fiscal deficit will
widen. The currency has fallen 5.6 percent in the past 12 months.
Exports fell for a 10th straight month in January.  Pressure Sources  Indonesia  limited the use of partially government-funded
diesel in January, after protests in the world’s fourth-most
populous nation derailed plans to raise prices in 2012. Fuel
subsidies rose to 211.9 trillion rupiah ($22 billion) last year
as the country imported about $29 billion of oil products, based
on official data.  The continuing burden of energy subsidies are among
emerging sources of pressure on Indonesia’s economic outlook,
with fuel-subsidy reform being one of the appropriate policy
responses, according to the  World Bank .  If foreign-exchange reserves were to continue to fall at
the same pace as over the last two months, “it would raise
concerns among investors,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-
based economist at Barclays. “The key question is what plan
they have, whether the infrastructure for implementation exists,
and the risks of leakage.”  Yudhoyono’s scope to raise prices is narrowing ahead of
elections in 2014. The government is formulating a more targeted
fuel-subsidy policy because the current one benefits middle to
upper-income groups more than the poor, he said on March 13. The
plan may be fleshed out in one to two weeks, he said.  Limited Use  Restrictions announced in January limit the use of
subsidized diesel by forestry companies, commercial vessels and
government vehicles in several provinces.  “I can assure there won’t be an increase in subsidized
fuel prices in April,” Julian Aldrin Pasha, spokesman to the
president, told reporters in Jakarta on March 19.  Yudhoyono, who can’t run for president next year after
serving two terms, struggled to win support from within his own
coalition for higher prices proposed last year. Indonesia missed
its opportunity to cut subsidies in 2012, and the chance of a
subsidized-fuel price increase this year is “fairly slim”
because of the political context, Moody’s Investors Service
analyst Christian de Guzman said in Jakarta on Jan. 31.  Instead, the government may impose a limit on the sale of
subsidized fuel for privately-owned vehicles in “five big
cities,” Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  said on March 14,
without naming them. “Controlling the use of subsidized fuel
will be a priority,” he said, adding that raising prices will
be the last resort.  Exceeding Target  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  fell 2 percent last week. The
2023 bonds fell, pushing the yield to the highest since November,
as investors favored short-dated notes on concern a push to
reduce subsidies will spur inflation. The 2014 bonds were little
changed for the week.  Consumer prices  will probably gain 5.13 percent this year,
compared with 4.28 percent last year, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The  budget deficit  this year may be more than 2 percent of
gross domestic product, exceeding the government’s target of
1.65 percent, Martowardojo said on March 19. The bigger-than-
target shortfall estimate is due to high subsidy costs, lower
tax revenues and declining exports, said Martowardojo, whose
nomination by Yudhoyono for the role of central bank governor
will be assessed by a parliamentary committee today.  Many Loopholes  “So far, the limitation of usage of subsidized fuel is not
going well,” said  Destry Damayanti , chief economist at PT Bank
Mandiri in Jakarta. “There are so many loopholes in the
implementation and it has benefited the middle-income class,
which has the ability to use non-subsidized fuel.”  The government understands its subsidies are benefiting
people who don’t really need them rather than the poor, and is
“discussing very seriously” how to address the issue, Chairul
Tanjung, Chairman of Indonesia’s National Economic Committee,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview last week with  Susan Li .  The issue highlights the political minefields in a region
where governments are trying to curb subsidies while containing
living costs.  India  partially freed diesel prices from state
control in January, while  Malaysia ’s government, facing
elections by late June, hasn’t announced further changes to its
retail fuel policy since reducing subsidies for 95-RON gasoline,
diesel and liquefied petroleum gas in 2010, when it also stopped
paying to keep prices of the highest grade 97-RON gasoline low.  Social Order  Indonesia’s proposed policy will affect vehicle purchases,
as consumers may need to allocate more money for fuel, said I
Dewa Made Susila, finance director at PT Adira Dinamika Multi
Finance, an auto financing unit of Bank Danamon. Indonesia’s
domestic car sales rose to 103,284 units in February from 96,705
units in January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Putting in a mechanism to supervise the quotas is costly
and may not be timely enough,”  Helmi Arman , a Jakarta-based
economist at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a note on March 14.
“Implications to social order must also be watched if
subsidized fuel becomes scarce even for the eligible parties.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  