-- Tires for Malaysian Cabs Expose Budget Risk Before Vote: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-03-25T10:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/free-tires-for-malaysian-cabs-expose-budget-risk-as-vote-looms.html
Malaysians like cab driver
Ramakrishnan Ramachandran are getting used to handouts from the
government as the next election looms. The budget deficit is set
to show the strain regardless of who wins the vote.  From smartphone rebates to household electricity subsidies
and higher wages for civil servants, Prime Minister Najib Razak
has gone on a spending binge to woo voters ahead of polls that
must be held by late June. In 2012, he announced a 35 million
ringgit ($11 million) voucher program to help taxi drivers pay
for new tires, and yesterday said 1,000 of them will get a grant
to offset the cost of a new car from Proton Holdings Bhd.  “The government simply throws the money,” Ramachandran,
54, said as he waited for passengers outside a  Kuala Lumpur 
shopping mall, adding that the 520 ringgit he received for the
wheels won’t deter him from voting for the opposition for the
first time. “Whatever the government gives, I take.”  The  opposition , attempting to break the ruling coalition’s
hold of more than five decades on power, is also prepared to be
generous as it promises free university education, lower fuel
prices and the elimination of toll fees. Any fiscal
deterioration from persistent largesse could raise the risk of
capital outflows should the U.S. shift to tightening monetary
policy, triggering a reversal in the flood of cash into  emerging
markets  in recent years.  ‘Not Pretty’  “No one will be overly alarmed by whether  Malaysia  can pay
for its spending now but its fiscal trajectory is not a pretty
thing,” said  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. economist who has covered Malaysia for seven
years. “Should investors start pulling money out of emerging
markets, Malaysia is not at the top of the hit list but the
sustainability of the fiscal situation is a concern for longer-
term investors.”  Southeast  Asia ’s third-largest economy has reported 15
years of budget  deficits , and elevated spending has prompted
credit rating companies to highlight risks to government
finances even as growth accelerates. Last week, the central bank
said the economy may expand as much as 6 percent this year,
compared with an earlier forecast of up to 5.5 percent.  “There’s a danger that after the election, if it’s a close
outcome the government may not have the will to carry out tough
reforms” and curb spending, said Chua Hak Bin, an economist at
Bank of America Corp. in  Singapore . “Overall, the risk is for
the fiscal deficit to deteriorate.”  Support for the prime minister is the lowest since 2011,
with his approval rating falling to 61 percent in February from
63 percent in December, according to a survey from the  Merdeka
Center for Opinion Research .  Close Result  The prospect of an even closer election result than the
2008 vote, when the ruling National Front coalition won by its
narrowest margin in more than five decades, has helped make the
FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index the worst performing Southeast
Asian benchmark this year. The ringgit has weakened 1.3 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  in 2013, while an index of Malaysian
local-currency debt compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc has returned
0.9 percent this year, outperforming six other Asian markets.  In Asia today, Singapore reported inflation quickened in
February, while  Taiwan ’s industrial output fell in the same
month from a year earlier.  Consumer confidence  in  Italy  declined
this month, while the Federal  Reserve Bank  of  Chicago  and its
Dallas counterpart will release economic indicators.  Cyprus agreed to the outlines of an international bailout
in overnight talks, paving the way for emergency loans and
eliminating the threat of default.  Balanced Budget  Najib has pledged to balance the budget by 2020 from more
than 4 percent of gross domestic product last year, saying
rising revenue has enabled the country to fund socio-economic
programs. Still,  government spending  in 2012 exceeded original
budget projections by about 2 percent of GDP, particularly in
wages, pensions, fuel subsidies, and transfers, the
 International Monetary Fund   said  last month.  “We are having a race to the bottom, we are having a race
on who can be more populist than the other,” said Wan Saiful
Wan Jan, chief executive of the Institute for Democracy and
Economic Affairs in Kuala Lumpur. “Whatever the scenario, the
likelihood is Malaysia will be heading towards a welfare state
and the impact on the economy will be long term.”  Najib, 59, must dissolve Parliament by April 28 and hold
the poll within 60 days. The prime minister’s planned 251.6
billion ringgit budget for 2013 includes cash handouts for low-
income families and higher pensions for civil servants. He has
temporarily shelved a plan to cut subsidies on the widely used
RON 95 grade of gasoline since 2010 and hasn’t given a date to
start a goods and services tax.  Cash Transfers  This month, Najib said cash transfers to poor households
will take place annually.  The opposition People’s Alliance coalition, led by former
Deputy Prime Minister  Anwar Ibrahim , has  pledged  to increase the
threshold for tax payers charged the highest rate to 400,000
ringgit from 250,000 ringgit, and spend 13 billion ringgit to
build “affordable homes.” On top of free education in public
universities, students who aren’t “well-off” would be given an
allowance for food, lodging, books and transportation.  The budget deficit is forecast by the government to shrink
to 4 percent of GDP this year from 6.6 percent in 2009. The
country “has been successful in moving towards near-budget
neutral by 2020,” the government said in a report this month.  Rising Liabilities  The IMF said last month contingent liabilities for the
government are growing from the rise of its statutory guarantees,
which in part reflect borrowing by special-purpose vehicles set
up to finance large public infrastructure projects. The
guarantees have increased to 15 percent of GDP, from less than
10 percent in 2008, it said.  Standard & Poor’s  said in September that it may lower
Malaysia’s ratings if the government can’t deliver on measures
such as the implementation of a goods and services tax or
changes to its subsidy program to reduce the deficit.  That will hinge on how many voters there are like Syed
Abdul Kadir. The Kuala Lumpur taxi driver receives cash handouts
to supplement his income and said government scholarships
allowed his daughter to become a doctor and his son an engineer.  “I tell my kids every morning to thank God they were born
in this country,” said Syed, 49. “The government has given us
many good things.”  Eleventh-hour handouts aren’t enough for Ramachandran.  “It’s not in a proper way, it’s like rasuah,” he said,
using the Malay word for bribery. “I want to change the
government and see what happens for the next five years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  