-- IMF Supports Danish Plan to Curb Bail-In Scope for Biggest Banks
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-03-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/imf-supports-danish-plan-to-curb-bail-in-scope-for-biggest-banks.html
Denmark  won backing from the
International Monetary Fund for a proposal to shield its biggest
banks from bail-in legislation in place since 2010.  Recommendations by a government-appointed committee,
unveiled this month, to designate Denmark’s six biggest banks as
systemically important financial institutions mark a “major
step forward” for the nation’s financial stability, Thomas Dorsey, the IMF’s mission chief to Denmark, said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  The proposals, which will heap as much as 5 percentage
points in additional capital requirements on the banks, are “an
important, positive step” that helps to address “the
difficulties that would have been created in attempting to apply
the existing bail-in framework to even the smallest of the
proposed Sifis,” Dorsey said.  Danish bail-in legislation, first enforced in 2011 with the
failure of Amagerbanken A/S, sent banks’ funding costs higher as
senior creditors balked at the prospect of losses. Even the
nation’s biggest bank,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , was tainted by Denmark’s
burden-sharing laws. Credit-default swaps on Danske’s senior
unsecured notes trade about 54 percent higher than similar
contracts on debt sold by  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  of  Sweden , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  No Alternative  The Sifi committee identified as too big to fail Danske
Bank, the Danish subsidiary of Nordea Bank AB,  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) ,
and  Sydbank A/S (SYDB)  and mortgage lenders Nykredit A/S and BRFkredit
A/S. In addition to higher capital requirements, it recommended
giving the Financial Supervisory Authority broader powers to
step in earlier to deal with troubled banks.  The committee also recommended creating a so-called
stability fund, financed by the Sifis, to enable bailouts of
troubled lenders.  “It’s difficult to find any alternative to a state rescue
if one of the really big financial institutions should get into
trouble,” central bank Governor Lars Rohde said March 14.
“That’s an issue that the report addresses.”  Denmark, the first nation in the European Union to impose
bail-ins, is now acknowledging it can’t always avoid bail-outs 
as the rest of  Europe  works on legislation to protect taxpayers 
from bank industry losses.  The EU’s latest bank resolution proposal -- one of three
main pillars in a banking union that includes a single
supervisory authority and common deposit insurance -- would give
regulators bail-in powers by 2018.  Germany , the Netherlands and
 Finland  have argued in favor of an earlier implementation. The
proposal allows national authorities to resort to taxpayer-
funded bailouts after exhausting bail-in options.  Dodd-Frank  The main threat to Denmark’s plans to protect its biggest
banks from failure now lies in implementation, Dorsey said.  “Other authorities have found it easier to develop such
plans than to get them into law and financial regulations,” he
said. “The U.S. Dodd-Frank regulations were signed into law
nearly three years ago, but implementation is still a work in
progress.”  U.S. House lawmakers are watering down the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act amid lobbying by  JP
Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other U.S.
banks. Denmark’s Parliament will begin a review of the Sifi
committee’s recommendations next month, after a public hearing
phase ends April 19.  Risk Sources  Denmark’s opposition Conservative Party has signaled it
will fight to reduce the capital buffers the Sifi committee
recommended. The Danish Bankers Association is also warning the
requirements will hurt the  economy , which contracted 0.6 percent
last year.  Danish banks’ asset quality is “much lower” than peers,
the IMF said in a report released in January by the Danish
central bank. The ratio of non-performing loans to the total
loan book is about three times higher, the Washington-based
organization said. At the same time, banks’ capital isn’t as
strong as it looks, because of the nature of the instruments
used and the risk weights applied to assets, it said.  “No tool can defend against all sources of risk,” Dorsey
said. “But implementation of the recommendations would seem to
be a major step forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  