-- India Completes 4-0 Sweep of Australia in Test Cricket Series
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-24T14:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/india-beats-australia-by-6-wickets-to-sweep-test-cricket-series.html
India  completed a 4-0 Test cricket
sweep of  Australia  with a six-wicket victory inside three days,
winning four matches in a series for the first time since
joining the elite ranks 81 years ago.  Cheteshwar Pujara scored an unbeaten 82 yesterday to guide
India to the victory in  New Delhi  with two days to spare. Spin
bowler Ravindra Jadeja earlier took 5-58 as India skittled
Australia for 164 in its second innings to leave the home team
needing 155 to win.  India rebounded from a 2-1 loss to England in its last home
Test series to regain the Border-Gavaskar trophy by avenging a
4-0 sweep of losses in Australia in 2011-12.  “The last one and a half years has not been really great
for us when it comes to Test cricket, but they showed a lot of
character,” India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni, who lost all
four tosses during the series, said at the presentation
ceremony. “You need to stand and battle it out. That was the
case in this particular series.”  It was the first time Australia was swept in a series of
more than three Tests since a 4-0 loss in  South Africa  in 1970.
The lopsided defeat came 14 weeks before it faces archrival
England in a best-of-five Ashes contest.  “This is really as foreign as you get to playing cricket
anywhere around the world, especially for an Australian cricket
team,” Australia stand-in captain  Shane Watson  said. “It’s
been a great learning curve for all of us. We are learning and
we’re certainly going to make sure we take as much as we can out
of this.”  Suspensions, Injuries  After heavy defeats in the first two matches, Australia
suspended four players including vice-captain Watson for the
third Test for failing to submit feedback on how they and the
team could improve. Watson was reinstated to the lineup as
skipper for the series finale after regular captain  Michael Clarke  was ruled out because of a back injury.  India secured the win yesterday for the loss of four
wickets as Dhoni belted the winning runs to the boundary off
spinner Nathan Lyon, who was Australia’s best bowler in the
match with nine wickets for 165 runs.  India had resumed at 266-8 on day three in reply to
Australia’s first-innings 262 and added six runs to its total as
Lyon completed career-best figures of 7-94.  Trailing by 10 runs on the first innings, Australia slumped
to 94-7 before  Peter Siddle  resisted with 50 off 45 balls. It
was Siddle’s second half-century of the match, making him the
first No. 9 batsman to hit back-to-back 50s in the same Test.  Run Chase  Lyon and fellow spinner Glenn Maxwell each took two wickets
as Australia tried to stem India’s momentum in its run chase,
though Pujara cracked three boundaries in a row to tie the
scores and set up Dhoni to seal the sweep.  While Jadeja took the man-of-the-match award for his seven
wickets and 43 runs, fellow spinner Ravichandran Ashwin was
named the man of the series for taking 29 wickets in four Tests.  “Everything has gone pretty well,” Ashwin said. “There
were a few changes I had to work on, it was quite disappointing
the way the  England  series had gone. I definitely needed a kick
up the backside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  