-- Line Chat App May Expand E-Commerce Beyond Secret-Sale Underwear
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-03-24T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/line-chat-app-may-expand-e-commerce-beyond-secret-sale-underwear.html
NHN Japan Corp., whose Line mobile
messenger application drew 100 million users about three times
as fast as  Facebook Inc. (FB) , may expand e-commerce offerings to
boost sales from the service.  “We need to give it a try,” President Akira Morikawa said
in an interview. The expansion of e-commerce may take time, he
said March 22 in  Tokyo , without giving additional details.  Known for its cartoon characters and other “ stickers ”
that users can include in chat messages, Line already offers
items including  underwear  and stuffed animals that are available
only to users of the application through its “secret sale”
service. With 38 percent of Line accounts in Japan, NHN is
targeting overseas growth and has set up a U.S. marketing team.  Making a profit still isn’t an immediate priority for Line,
Morikawa said.  “If we think only about profits first, we may stop
evolving and and start to lose customers,” he said.  The company, a unit of South Korean search engine operator
 NHN Corp. (035420) , is spending 250 billion won ($223 million) marketing
the app this year, more than double last year’s amount, Jay Park, a Seoul-based analyst at Samsung Securities Co., said in a
Feb. 25 report.  While NHN hasn’t set an official target, it would like Line
to grow to as many as 1 billion users, Jun Masuda, the company’s
chief strategy and marketing officer, said earlier this month.  NHN Japan doesn’t disclose sales or profit. Parent NHN
Corp., the biggest provider of Internet searches in South Korea,
has gained 42 percent in Seoul trading since June 1, 2011,
 against  a 9 percent drop in the benchmark Kospi index.  Nokia Partnership  Line is available to users of the Android, iPhone, Windows
Phone and BlackBerry operating systems as well as personal
computers. The app has topped  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s rankings of free
downloads in 41 countries, according to NHN.  Of Line’s 120 million users as of March 9, about 45 million
were in Japan while  Taiwan  and  Thailand  accounted for 15 million
each, according to NHN, which doesn’t disclose numbers for other
markets.  Line reached the 100 million-user mark 19 months after its
June 2011 debut, compared with 49 months for Twitter and 54
months for Facebook, according to NHN Japan.  The company said Feb. 26 it teamed up with  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  to
make Line available on the Espoo, Finland-based company’s Asha
mobile devices. The release is scheduled for this month in
China, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, Vietnam, the Philippines,
 Cambodia , Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Australia and  New
Zealand , Line said in a  statement  on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  