-- Israel Destroys Syrian Army Gun Post After Jeep Hit in Golan
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-03-24T13:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/israel-fires-across-syria-border-after-jeep-hit-in-golan-heights.html
Israel  fired into  Syria  and
destroyed an army post after gunfire from Syrian territory
struck the Israeli-controlled section of the Golan Heights twice
in less than 24 hours, hitting an army jeep.  “We take the firing at IDF forces in Israeli territory
very seriously,” Defense Minister Moshe Ya’alon said in an e-
mailed statement. Lieutenant-General Benny Gantz, the Israel
Defense Forces chief of staff, told Army Radio that targeting
the Syrian gun post was a response to the rising border threat.  The friction on the southern Golan plateau, which Israel
captured from Syria in the 1967 Middle East war, follows an
agreement by Israel and  Turkey  to put aside their three-year
dispute, in part to address the Syrian civil war. Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said both countries fear the
prospect of terrorist organizations getting hold of Syria’s
chemical weapons.  “The fact that the crisis in Syria is getting worse by the
moment was the central consideration,” for Israel’s March 22
apology for killing nine Turks on a ship trying to breach
Israel’s blockade of the Gaza Strip, Netanyahu said late
yesterday on his Facebook page.  Netanyahu delivered the apology in a phone call with
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, expressing regret
“for any mistakes that might have led to the loss of life or
injury” aboard Turkey’s Mavi Marmara ship in the May 2010 raid
by Israeli naval commandos. The call was arranged with U.S. help
and took place with President  Barack Obama  on the line, minutes
before he departed Israel after a three-day visit.  Syria Spillover  The exchange of fire in the Golan was the latest spillover
of the two-year civil war in Syria between opposition groups and
forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad, in which more than
70,000 people have been killed, according to the United Nations.
Israel annexed the southern Golan Heights and 20,000 of its
citizens now live there. The area is considered illegally
occupied territory by the United Nations.  Israeli forces returned fire in accordance with government
policy that any violation of Israeli sovereignty will be
answered and fire from Syria will be silenced.  “The Syrian regime is responsible for every breach of
sovereignty,” Ya’alon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  