-- Yankees’ Derek Jeter Is Set to Miss First Opening Day Since 2001
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-03-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/jeter-set-to-start-mlb-season-on-disabled-list-mlb-com-reports.html
Derek Jeter  will probably miss
Major League Baseball’s Opening Day for the first time in 12
years as the  New York  Yankees’ shortstop and captain is set to
start the regular season on the disabled list.  Jeter, 38, wasn’t able to play in a minor-league game
yesterday because of soreness in his surgically repaired left
ankle, which he broke during an Oct. 13 playoff game.  “This continues to tell you that it’s just not ready yet
for the full duties,” Yankees General Manager  Brian Cashman 
told reporters yesterday in Tampa, Florida. “It’s looking more
likely than not that he will start the season on the DL, and a
more realistic goal is April 6.”  The Yankees, who open the season in a week at home against
the Boston Red Sox, already are without first baseman  Mark Teixeira  and outfielder  Curtis Granderson  at least through May,
and third baseman  Alex Rodriguez  through midseason.  Eduardo Nunez would probably replace Jeter as the Yankees’
shortstop to start the regular season, Cashman said.  Jeter had a pain-killing injection in his ankle last week
after being scratched from a spring training game against the
Philadelphia Phillies. He returned to action two days ago in a
minor-league game and didn’t run at full speed to first base on
any of the four times he grounded out.  “He’s feeling more discomfort in a different spot,”
Cashman said. “He realizes that things are happening, the
Opening Day schedule is approaching and he’s not 100 percent
just yet. I think the reality is setting in.”  Jeter has played on Opening Day in 16 of the past 17 years.
The last time he missed the start of the regular season was in
2001, when he was recovering from a quadriceps injury and Luis Sojo filled in at shortstop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  