-- Korean Teachers Union to Have Record Alternative Assets Abroad
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2013-03-24T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/korean-teachers-union-to-have-record-alternative-assets-abroad.html
Korean Teachers’ Credit Union , with
about $19 billion in assets, will boost real estate and other
alternative investments abroad to a record this year to benefit
from a U.S. economic recovery and lower prices in Europe.  The credit union, also known as KTCU, is in talks to invest
in Worldwide Plaza in New York as part of a group that includes
other Korean investors, Chief Executive Officer Kim Junggi said
on March 21. KTCU plans to provide about 100 billion won ($90
million) to the deal of the U.S. property that may be valued at
more than $1 billion, he said, adding that talks will probably
be completed by the end of April.  State funds from Asia, including the  National Pension
Service  of Korea, are boosting their proportion of investments
in real estate and looking overseas for higher yields amid
slower growth in the region. Prices of U.S. commercial property
are expected to climb in the next six months, extending a
rebound that has sent values close to levels reached at the
market’s peak in 2007, according to Green Street Advisors Inc.  “We’re seeing green shoots in the U.S. economy, which will
fare better next year,” Kim, 57, said in an interview in Seoul
after he visited New York earlier this month to discuss the
Worldwide Plaza deal. “We’re optimistic about the U.S. real
estate market. With the limited supply in prime offices in
Manhattan, the investment will give us quite stable cash flow.”  The 42-year-old welfare agency for about 620,000 teachers
and school employees had 20.7 trillion won ($19 billion) in
total assets as of December and predicts they will increase to
about 30 trillion won by 2017.  Highest Ever  KTCU, based in Seoul, will spend about 360 billion won this
year on alternative assets overseas, including properties,
infrastructure and renewable energy projects.  “There is a funding gap in Europe due to the region’s
sovereign debt crisis and it provides more opportunities for
Asian investors like us,” said Kim, who added that KTCU is
looking at several London office assets he didn’t identify. “As
asset prices declined quite a lot, we’ll keep looking into
targets in the region.”  The credit union can invest directly or through property
funds, he said.  Last year it put 50 billion won in Vintners Place in London
as part of a purchase with Downtown Properties Inc., an
affiliate of Hong Kong-based fund manager Gaw Capital Partners.
It also paid 60 billion won for a stake in Rochavera Corporate
Towers in Sao Paulo.  ‘Fat Returns’  KTCU is considering investing in Japan as the yen weakens
and the economy begins to recover, the CEO said. No specific
deal is under way, he said.  “There might be some opportunities in Japan with the
softer yen and the economic recovery signal, and we’re looking
into the market with interest,” Kim said. “We will tap
everything that promises us fat returns.”  Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has pledged to use
monetary easing and fiscal stimulus to lift the nation out of
more than a decade of declining prices. He has pushed the
central bank to be more aggressive in combating deflation in the
world’s third-largest economy.  The yen has dropped more than 8 percent against the dollar
this year.  KTCU, which had an investment return of 6.5 percent last
year, forecasts a 5.8 percent return this year because of a
decline in the value of fixed-income assets and fluctuations in
equity markets, the CEO said.  The agency will cut its bond holdings to 24 percent of
total assets from 30 percent last year because the fund can’t
endure declines in bond yields, Kim said. In the longer term, it
will buy more emerging countries’ treasury notes, he said,
without identifying nations.  “Our big push this year is overseas and in alternative
investments,” Kim said. “Equity markets are too volatile,
bond-market profits are squeezed and the domestic market is too
small. We have to go overseas to survive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  