-- Korean Air Plans to Add North America Capacity as A380s Arrive
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-03-24T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/korean-air-plans-to-add-north-america-capacity-as-a380s-arrive.html
Korean Air  Lines Co., the country’s
biggest carrier, plans to increase flights to the U.S. and
Canada this year as it adds two more Airbus SAS A380 superjumbos
to its fleet.  The carrier will add nine planes this year to its fleet,
enabling more flights to Seattle, Las Vegas,  Vancouver  and
Chicago, Woo Kee Hong, senior vice president of strategy and
planning at Korean Air, said in an interview in Seoul on March
22. The company will increase services to  Southeast Asia , China
and Japan while not adding routes to Europe, Woo said.  Korean Air, which counts Samsung Electronics Co. as its
biggest source of revenue, expects passenger demand to increase
3.9 percent this year as economic growth in the U.S. and  Asia ,
help mask a downturn in European demand. Airlines globally will
exceed last year’s earnings by about 40 percent in 2013 as
travel outlook improves for the industry, the  International Air
Transport Association  said last week.  “We see a lot of potential connecting the U.S. and Asia,”
Woo said.  Korean Air plans to add more seats between Atlanta and
Seoul in August, by operating the A380 plane for part of its 10
weekly flights, Woo said. The company had 146 planes on its
fleet at the end of December, including six A380s and 32  Boeing
Co. (BA)  777s.  The airline also plans to retire its 747 aircraft as it
adds more fuel-efficient planes, Woo said. Carriers, including
Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Deutsche Lufthansa AG, are ordering
fuel-efficient jets as kerosene costs have jumped 39 percent
over the past three years.  Capacity to European cities will remain unchanged because
of mounting competition with Middle East carriers, Woo said.  “Flying between Asia and Europe has become extremely
competitive,” Woo said. “It’s not only the Middle Eastern
carriers, but the airlines in Europe are also offering very
competitive fares.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  