-- New Zealand Chases Six England Wickets on Last Day to Win Series
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-25T13:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/new-zealand-sets-up-chance-of-cricket-series-win-against-england.html
New Zealand needs six wickets on
the final day to secure its first Test cricket series victory
against England in 14 years after setting the touring team a
record 481 runs to win and reducing it to 90-4.  Boosted by Peter Fulton’s second century of the match, the
Black Caps declared their second innings at 241-6 and then
removed Nick Compton, Jonathan Trott,  Alastair Cook  and  Steven
Finn  before stumps on day four in Auckland.  England needs to bat out the last day to draw the three-
match series 0-0 or get an unlikely 391 more runs to achieve the
highest successful run chase in 136 years of elite cricket. The
biggest fourth-innings total to win any Test is the West Indies’
418-7 against  Australia  in May 2003.  Fulton said he’d value a victory over England more highly
than his two centuries.  “I would gladly give back the hundreds to get a win,” he
told reporters. “We’ve not had many Test wins over England, let
alone series wins. For any New Zealander beating England in any
sport is a pretty sweet thing and fingers crossed we can get
those last six wickets.”  Fulton made 110 before home captain Brendon McCullum, who
blasted an unbeaten 67 off 53 balls yesterday, declared after
the lunch break. Tim Southee then got Compton to edge behind to
BJ Watling for 2 in the ninth ball of England’s second innings.  New Zealand  took 3-45 in the final session as Trott edged a
Neil Wagner delivery to Watling when on 37. Part-time spin
bowler Kane Williamson then had Cook (43) and Finn (0) caught in
close with seven fielders crowded around the bat to finish with
2-5 off 6.1 overs.  The home team earlier resumed at 35-3 and added another 206
runs for the loss of three wickets.  Twin Centuries  Fulton followed up his breakthrough Test hundred in the
first innings to join Glenn Turner, Geoff Howarth and Andrew
Jones as the only New Zealand batsman to hit twin centuries in
the same Test. Fulton’s previous highest score coming into the
match was 75 against West Indies in 2006.  Nicknamed “Two-Meter Peter,” the 6-foot-6 Fulton struck
14 fours and brought up three figures with his fifth six before
mistiming a pull shot to Joe Root at long-on off Finn’s bowling
four balls later.  McCullum then added 42 runs off 30 balls with Watling to
take the home team further out of reach.  England  batting coach Graham Gooch said his team can still
draw the game.  “I’m not giving any excuses because we have been
outplayed, but we still have a chance to salvage something,”
Gooch told BBC Sport. “We’re under a lot of pressure but we
have some good players in our dressing room, some good young
players and we have to believe we can save the game.”  The first two matches ended in rain-affected draws. New
Zealand last won a Test series between the teams in 1999 and
hasn’t beaten England at home since 1984.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  