-- Norway Becomes Petro-State as Investors Balk at Hidden AAA Risks
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-03-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/norway-becomes-petro-state-as-investors-balk-at-hidden-aaa-risks.html
Norway, home to the world’s biggest
sovereign wealth fund, is betting it can afford to ignore
investor outrage.  After shocking global credit markets in 2011 by pulling
support from the once  AAA and now junk -rated lender
Eksportfinans ASA, the government unveiled plans in January to
cut tariffs on gas transport by 90 percent, sapping income for
those funding the venture by as much as $7 billion.  Investors are now asking themselves how much risk they’re
willing to accept to gain access to western Europe’s biggest oil
and gas reserves. And while Norway boasts a stable AAA rating
and the world’s smallest default risk, the government’s decision
to ride roughshod over investors is starting to resemble actions
seen in less stable democracies such as Venezuela and Russia.  The planned tariff cut “undermines Norway’s reputation as
a stable and predictable country for investments,” Solveig Gas
Norway AS and Silex Gas Norway AS, two of the companies backing
the pipeline network that charges the tariffs, Gassled, said in
a March 15 letter. It “represents an unauthorized intervention
in the infrastructure owners’ legally protected rights and
expectations,” they said.  The government says it’s now reviewing feedback from
investors and other parties affected by the cuts. Companies
controlled by  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Allianz SE (ALV) , Canadian pension funds and Abu
Dhabi’s sovereign wealth fund together spent $5.6 billion on
acquiring a 44 percent stake in Gassled.  Proving Irresistible  The investors argue the proposed 90 percent cut would
reduce returns to 4 percent, well below their projected minimum
of 7 percent, according to a hearing letter released last week.
The group says Norway’s attempt to change the rules is illegal
and will damage the nation’s image abroad.  Yet as Europe’s deepening debt crisis rekindles demand for
safety, Norway’s appeal as a rich haven may prove irresistible.
The nation boasts the biggest budget surplus of any AAA
government, while credit derivatives suggest it’s the world’s
safest investment.  So far, the spat has had little impact on Norway’s markets.
The krone in February hit a record on an import-weighted basis
and is up 1.3 percent against the euro over the past 12 months
even after the central bank signaled it may cut rates to counter
appreciation. Eksportfinans bonds have also rallied since the
November 2011 announcement. The yield on the company’s 5.5
percent $1 billion note maturing in 2016 eased to 4.07 percent
on March 20, compared with a high of 10 percent in November
2011.  Rich State  “You have a certain freedom of action when you’re as big
and rich as the Norwegian state,” Torger Reve, a professor at
the BI Norwegian Business School in Oslo, said in a March 13
interview. “You’d need to be pretty unreliable to damage the
reputation of the Norwegian state. It’s one of the best-funded
nations in the world.”  The Gassled investors, which also include Infragas Norge AS
and Njord Gas Infrastructure AS, last month appealed to Prime
Minister Jens Stoltenberg to intervene. He declined to meet with
them, saying the issue is being handled by the petroleum
ministry.  “I don’t know what expectations they had for returns,”
Lars Erik Aamot, head of the ministry’s oil and gas department,
said in an interview last month. “What they have paid isn’t
relevant to our policy.”  Even oil and gas producers, which stand to benefit from the
tariff cuts after selling their stakes in the pipelines in 2010
and 2011, warned that the move may harm Norway. Companies
including  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and  Total SA (FP)  all sold stakes in the pipelines well before the
tariff cuts were announced. Statoil, which still holds 5 percent
of the network, is 67 percent owned by the Norwegian government.  ‘Right Balance’  The “right balance” is important, Martin Tiffen, managing
director for Total in Norway, said in a letter to the oil
ministry. “New shippers should be able to reliably forecast
future tariff levels” to “have the necessary confidence to
undertake investments,” he said.  The gas tariff dispute has reminded investors of Norway’s
indifference to credit markets 1 1/2 years ago, when the
Industry Ministry decided to wind down Eksportfinans. The
lender, created half a century ago to fund Norway’s exports,
lost government backing after European capital rules forced it
to limit its loans. The move triggered junk ratings at Standard
& Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service, roiling investors based
in Europe, Asia and the U.S. holding about $39 billion in bonds.  Eksportfinans Suit  Eksportfinans is now seeking to unwind its outstanding debt
of about $20 billion amid a lawsuit from hedge fund Silver Point
Capital LP, which says it suffered a default on its Japanese
bonds. The company has said it’s confident in contesting the
claim.  Norway has also shown it won’t shy away from confrontations
when it comes to trade, and last year angered EU officials and
Nordic neighbors by raising tariffs on cheese to protect local
products including Jarlsberg, which is shipped across the world.  Norwegians have rejected EU membership twice in
referendums, most recently in 1994 when the no side won 52
percent of the vote. Norway’s krone has soared 19 percent
against the euro since the start of 2009, when the euro area
sank into its debt crisis.  Norway’s mainland economy, which excludes oil and gas
production and shipping, will expand 2.75 percent this year,
after growing 3.5 percent last year, the central bank forecast
on March 14. The economy of the 17-nation euro area will shrink
for a second year, both the European Commission and the
International Monetary Fund estimate.  Local Concern  Norwegian registered unemployment is below 3 percent,
compared with more than 11 percent in the euro area.  Investments in Norway’s offshore oil and gas fields will
grow 16 percent to 199 billion kroner this year, reaching 7
percent of gross domestic product, the statistics office
estimated this month.  Still, the Labor Party-led government’s approach to foreign
investors has raised concerns at home. Norway’s state-run
pension fund is among the critics after its investment in Njord
Gas Infrastructure AS, which holds a stake in Gassled, was hurt
by the proposed tariff cut.  The fund, which bought bonds from Njord in 2011, said in a
March 15 letter it will reconsider infrastructure-related
investments. New Norwegian infrastructure projects will face
“significantly higher borrowing costs, which would rule out
market financing of such projects,” Lars Tronsgaard, deputy
chief executive officer of the pension fund, warned this month.  Political Uncertainty  The opposition, which is leading in the polls ahead of
September general elections, has also criticized the
government’s treatment of investors.  “It’s unfortunate that investor groups of this size are
starting to question whether they have to price in political
uncertainty,” Siri Meling, a lawmaker and energy spokeswoman
for the Conservative Party, said in an interview.  Norway, which started pumping oil in 1971, has seen its
production more than halve over the past decade. The government
argues that the lower tariffs will help make offshore
discoveries more profitable and encourage exploration and
recovery rates. A combination of unchanged tariffs on existing
contracts and lower tariffs on new volumes will ensure
“reasonable returns” for the owners, it said in January.  According to Reve at the business school, the cuts are also
justified since returns on the pipeline investments have been,
and are forecast to be, higher than estimated.  Not Natural  “If they’ve made more than forecast, I see that as an
argument to lower tariffs,” Rolf Golombek, a senior research
fellow at the Oslo-based Ragnar Frisch Centre for Economic
Research, said in a March 6 interview.  Returns, adjusting for inflation and tax, on investments in
Norway’s pipelines were 10 percent in 2012 and would reach 10.5
percent in 2028, based on past and current contracts, according
to a report from the system’s operator, Gassco AS.  “It’s not natural to have a place with extremely high
profitability and such low risk,” Reve said.  As the government prepares its final ruling on the Gassled
tariffs, Solveig, Silex, Njord and Infragas have all said they
may snub future investments, including buying out oil companies
that are spending 25 billion kroner on the  Polarled pipeline , a
new link from fields in the Arctic.  That would leave oil producers with cash tied up in
infrastructure, which was what they had sought to avoid by
selling out of Gassled two years ago, Solveig’s Chief Executive
Officer Trygve Pedersen said last month.  It probably won’t come to that, professor Reve said.  “My bet is they will continue to invest in gas
pipelines,” he said. “Risk exists, even when you do business
where the Norwegian government is involved. You have to look at
that as normal, commercial risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  