-- Modern Nuclear-War Deterrence Begins With Nuke Locks
-- B y   T i m   W e i n e r
-- 2013-03-24T22:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/modern-nuclear-war-deterrence-begins-with-nuke-locks.html
Start thinking the unthinkable. We
as a nation have to start talking about the prospects for
nuclear war.  President  Barack Obama  says  Iran  might have a bomb in a
year. To hold back the day, the U.S. and  Israel  have conducted
cyberwar, and Israel has apparently assassinated Iranian
scientists. But even if Israel attacks to stop Iran’s bomb
making now, the day will dawn.  What will we do if Israel threatens Tehran with nuclear
obliteration? What if North Korea aims a warhead at  Seoul ? And
what if the missiles start flying? Two dozen North Korean
nuclear weapons fired at Seoul and Toyko could kill more people
than all the Allied bombings of Germany and Japan in World War
II. A nuclear battle in the  Middle East , one-sided or not, would
be the most destabilizing military event since Pearl Harbor.  Few American military and political leaders have thought
seriously about nuclear strategy since the end of the  Cold War .
No U.S. president has had a serious talk with the nation about
the world’s nuclear arsenal since  Ronald Reagan  took a long hard
look into the abyss 30 years ago.  Our military commanders know a thousand ways in which a war
could start between Israel and Iran, on the Korean peninsula or
in the  Indian subcontinent . No one has ever fought a nuclear
war, however. No one knows how to end one.  Nuclear Strategy  We don’t need magical thinking about abolishing the bomb.
We need to control the nuclear arsenals of allies and enemies
alike. The U.S. and the United Nations need to start working on
a modern nuclear-arms control regime. A year is plenty of time
to talk about the strategy, if we start talking sensibly now.  The U.S.,  Russia , China, the U.K. and  France  -- the
permanent members of the UN  Security Council  -- have placed
strong controls on their own nuclear weapons, including safety
locks that prevent unauthorized or accidental launching.
President  John F. Kennedy  was the first to announce that U.S.
and North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces would lock down
nuclear weapons deployed in  Europe . After the Cuban missile
crisis, the Soviet Union secretly agreed to follow suit by
imposing these locks, known as permissive action links, or PALs.  India, Pakistan, Israel, Iran and North Korea need to show
the world that they have their own PALs in place. The UN should
demand, through a Security Council vote, that all members of the
nuclear club demonstrate their safety locks to the  International
Atomic Energy Agency  and to the Security Council itself. Those
that refuse would forfeit their seats and their  voting rights  at
the UN. This alone would reduce the chances of war through
accident or misadventure.  Paul Bracken, the U.S.’s best civilian expert on the
command and control of nuclear weapons, proposes a bold idea in
his new book, “The Second Nuclear Age.” The president of the
U.S., he writes, should declare: “The  United States  will not be
the first to use nuclear weapons under any circumstances.” In
the same breath, he should add that it will use them if any
other country goes first.  This would be a warning to every nation: If you go first,
you risk becoming a smoking, radiating ruin in no time flat.  Bracken knows whereof he speaks. He, too, has stared into
the abyss.  In June 1983, at the National War College on the banks of
the Potomac River, the first truly realistic nuclear war game
took place. Tensions between Washington and Moscow were high
that summer, higher even than anyone realized at the time. The
war game was code-named Proud Prophet, and there were no stand-
ins: Reagan’s secretary of defense, his chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff and hundreds of senior military officers played
themselves, holding in their hands the actual war plans of the
U.S.  Bracken was invited to be its “Thucydidean chronicler,” in
his words. He tells the story for the first time in his new
book.  Armageddon  Proud Prophet began with political crises from the
Mediterranean to the Pacific. It ended in Armageddon -- “a
catastrophe that made all the wars of the past five hundred
years pale in comparison,” Bracken writes. “A half billion human
beings were killed in the initial exchanges and at least that
many more would have died from radiation and starvation. NATO
was gone. So was a good part of Europe, the United States, and
the Soviet Union. Major parts of the northern hemisphere would
be uninhabitable for decades.”  The American military leaders in this game were not crazy
or suicidal. They were faithfully executing plans and strategies
that a tight little circle of experts had been polishing and
perfecting for a quarter of a century. The outcome shocked them.
After Proud Prophet, the U.S. stopped rattling sabers and
started talking sense about the prospects of nuclear war. In his
next  State of the Union  speech, Reagan said: “A nuclear war
cannot be won and must never be fought.”  When you look at the war plans we had, and I’ve seen them
in outline, you react the way Reagan did the first time he saw
them upon taking office. “He became physically sick,” Bracken
writes. “The briefing had to be cancelled and rescheduled.”  It is time for another briefing, disagreeable though it may
be, about nuclear realities. And the American people need to
hear about it from the commander in chief.  (Tim Weiner, a former reporter for the  New York  Times, has
won the Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Award for writing
on national security. He is the author, most recently, of
“ Enemies: A History of the FBI .” The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Tim Weiner at  tiwein@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 