-- London Mayor Johnson Says Talk of Being Premier Nonsense
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-03-24T13:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/london-mayor-johnson-says-talk-of-being-premier-nonsense.html
London  Mayor Boris Johnson again
dismissed speculation that he wants to succeed David Cameron as
Conservative Party leader and British prime minister, calling
such talk “increasingly hysterical” and “completely
nonsensical.”  “What I want is for David Cameron to win this election,
which he deserves to do and I want to do everything I possibly
can to help,” Johnson told BBC Television’s “Andrew Marr
Show” today. “What I want is to spend my time remaining as
mayor to do as well as I can as Mayor of London.”  Johnson is 5/1 second favorite with bookmaker William Hill
Plc to succeed Cameron as Tory leader, behind Home Secretary
Theresa May at 4/1. His term as London Mayor expires in 2016, a
year after the next general election. Johnson does not currently
have a seat in the House of Commons.  The London mayor rebuffed suggestions by presenter Eddie
Mair that indiscretions in his past, including fabricating
quotes when he was a newspaper reporter and lying about an
extramarital affair, were of concern to voters. The topics,
which have been covered in past biographies about Johnson, are
raised again in a  BBC documentary about the mayor that airs
tomorrow .  “You’re a nasty piece of work, aren’t you?” Mair asked
Johnson.  “Interpretations you’re putting on those things aren’t
wholly fair,” Johnson said. Voters “don’t care about phone
conversations with my friends 20 years ago, they don’t care
about some ludicrous so-called made-up quote,” he said.  Johnson was also asked in tomorrow’s BBC documentary about
his prime-ministerial ambitions.  “I think it’s a very tough job being prime minister,” the
mayor said. “Obviously, if the ball came loose from the back of
a scrum -- which it won’t -- of course it would be a great,
great thing to have a crack at. But it’s not going to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  