-- Horse-Meat Scandal Exposes Weakness in Global Food Chain
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-24T22:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/horse-meat-scandal-exposes-weakness-in-global-food-chain.html
The horse-meat storm that broke
over  Europe  two months ago has been in one respect a tempest in
a horseshoe, because it posed  no threat  to human health. That’s
not a minor caveat in an industry where, in the U.S. alone,
 tainted food  kills 3,000 people each year and sickens 48
million.  The horse-meat substitution has struck a nerve, however, as
people wonder what else they’re eating that isn’t what they
think it is.  It could be almost anything. The list of counterfeit foods
Interpol found in worldwide food-fraud operations during 2011
and 2012 includes olive oil, tomato sauce, cheese, wine, candy
bars, coffee, soup cubes, truffles, caviar, vodka, soy sauce and
fruit juice. Consider, too, the undeclared goat, donkey and
water buffalo meat that professors at South Africa’s
Stellenbosch University recently  found  in locally produced
sausages and hamburgers.  In the U.S., the nonprofit group  Oceana  recently confirmed
that a large share of the fish in groceries and restaurants is
something other than what it is sold as. Researchers did DNA
tests on more than 1,200 fish samples in 14 metropolitan areas
and found a third to be mislabeled. Red snapper was
misrepresented so often that the researchers were at pains to
find the real thing: Of 120 samples, 113 were a different fish.  Ancient Practice  Food fraud is as old as the hills. Rogue traders have been
adulterating olive oil and alcohol ever since humans started
making and selling them. Laws against food adulteration have
existed at least since Rome made it a crime punishable by
servitude or exile. Scientists have been writing treatises on
the subject since at least  1820 .  What’s different today is that the food industry has become
so sophisticated and supply chains so complex and global that
it’s much harder to monitor what goes into a product. There’s
more to watch, too: Is that expensive organic turnip really
organic? Was that sustainably fished salmon sustainably fished?
Is that Champagne really from the Champagne region in  France ?  Worse, food prices are rising in the midst of a deep
economic recession. That’s putting enormous pressure on
suppliers to find cheaper ingredients, and the result is rising
fraud. The U.K. Food Standards Agency  added  50 percent more
reports to its food fraud database in 2011 than the previous
year. At the same time, budgets for state inspections are
falling.  The U.K. agency’s director, Steve Wearne, told Bloomberg
View that inspection agencies have to choose: Should they focus
on looking for otherwise healthy meat and fish substitutes, or
for big money olive oil scams and fake vodka made with methanol
and chloroform, which can kill? “We try to strike a balance,” he
said, and it tilts toward safety.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, which is working to
expand its presence outside the U.S. to help monitor the global
food supply chain, puts the same emphasis on safety,
Commissioner Margaret Hamburg told Bloomberg View.  The question is how to inspect smarter and how to
incentivize the food industry to police itself better. After
all, because food fraud is a breach of trust between seller and
buyer, it should be mainly up to food marketers to demonstrate
that they are trustworthy.  Greater use of computers to track food and improve
transparency can help. The FDA already uses  databases  to help it
make targeted decisions on which imported foods to check for
fraud. EU officials are considering adding a shared food
authenticity alert system to the one they have for food safety,
allowing regulators in  Poland  to see what their counterparts in
Ireland are seeing and helping them to uncover cross-border
scams earlier. They should do it.  EU agriculture ministers also are talking about  extending 
to all meats rules that demand certain categories of imported
food identify their place of origin. Again, they should do it.  Supply Chains  Something more radical may be needed, though. Tesco Plc,
the U.K.’s biggest grocery chain whose 60 percent horse meat
spaghetti Bolognese became a poster villain, has taken the lead
in the U.K. by promising to cut its supply chains shorter and
source meat from inside the country wherever it can. That smells
of protectionism, but not if it’s a purely commercial decision
made by the food retailers to protect their brands. Tesco also
promised to spend millions of pounds annually on DNA testing, to
make sure its suppliers are delivering the ingredients listed on
those boxes of frozen spaghetti Bolognese.  By conducting such testing even sporadically, food sellers
can make it harder for fraudsters to operate. The industry now
has a new tool to guide it: a public  Internet database  of
thousands of food frauds perpetrated since 1980, compiled by the
U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention.  Another useful database under construction is the
 International Barcode of Life  Working Group’s catalog of DNA
barcodes for thousands of fish species, which makes it easier
for  regulators  and food companies alike to verify any fish’s
identity.  Some U.S. fisheries are protecting their reputations by
using computer tracking. A tracing system developed in the Gulf
of Mexico,  Gulf Seafood Trace , has fishermen log information
about their catch of shrimp, oysters and fish into a database.
That’s updated as the seafood moves through the market chain --
until ultimately the person who buys it for dinner can check
what it is and where and when it was caught. The peace of mind
this allows consumers may make them more willing to pay a
premium for the fish.  There are already laws against mislabeling. Horse carcasses
in the EU are required to have passports (Europeans  knowingly
eat  more than 200,000 horses every year). Yet the more
information consumers have, and the more transparency there is
in the global food supply chain, the harder it will be to dupe
us about what we are eating.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 