-- Pakistan Picks Former Judge as Interim Premier Before May Polls
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-03-24T08:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/pakistan-picks-former-judge-as-interim-premier-before-may-polls.html
Pakistan ’s Election Commission
appointed a former judge,  Mir Hazar Khan Khoso , to head a
caretaker government before May general elections, after leading
political parties failed to agree on a candidate  Khoso, 83, will take the oath as interim Prime Minister as
early as today to oversee the transition, which follows the
March 16 dissolution of the 342-member National Assembly at the
end of its five years. The outgoing Pakistan Peoples Party
government was the first civilian administration in the
country’s 65 years of independence to complete its term and
transfer power to another through a ballot.  “This gentleman will assist us to hold free and fair
elections in the country,” Fakhruddin G. Ibrahim, the election
commissioner, told reporters in Islamabad today.  As mandated by the constitution, the commission stepped in
after weeks of negotiations between representatives of the
Peoples Party and its leading challenger, the Pakistan Muslim
League of former premier  Nawaz Sharif , failed to break the
deadlock on who should govern for the next two months.  The Peoples Party of President Asif Ali Zardari trails in
opinion polls ahead of the May 11 ballot, winning less than half
the support of Sharif’s Pakistan Muslim League in a March 4
survey published by Gallup Pakistan.  Growth Needed  Whichever party wins at the polls will have to boost the
$210 billion economy, which has grown at an average 3 percent
since 2007, less than half the annual pace of the previous five
years and too slow to reduce poverty in the world’s sixth-most
populous country.  The U.S. is seeking the support of the nuclear-armed nation
as it bids to stabilize  Afghanistan  amid plans to withdraw all
combat troops by the end of 2014.  Khoso is a retired judge and hails from Pakistan’s poorest
province of Baluchistan, according to his bio on Pakistan
Federal Shariat Court, which he headed as chief justice in 1994.
His name was proposed by the previous government.  “Improving the country’s security and financial situation
and holding free and fair elections are my biggest challenges,”
Khoso said in a live interview on the Geo channel today.  Zardari’s term as president ends in September. Previous
civilian governments have been toppled by the military, which
has run the country for half its history.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  