-- Risk Unrewarded as Emerging Stocks Lag Behind Most Since ’98
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-03-25T20:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/risk-unrewarded-as-emerging-stocks-lose-in-worst-start-since-08.html
The link between risk and reward in
stocks is breaking down as  emerging markets  post the worst first
quarter since 2008 and lag behind shares of developed economies
by the most in 15 years.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) ’s 3.8 percent drop this
year through last week trimmed its rebound from an October 2011
low to 22 percent. That compares with a 33 percent advance for
the MSCI World Index and marks the first time since 1998 that
developing-country shares have underperformed during a global
rally. When adjusted for price  swings , emerging market returns
are 37 percent smaller than in advanced nations, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  While higher volatility in developing countries led to
outsized gains during the last six bull markets, this time is
proving different as government intervention curbs profits at
companies such as  PetroChina Co. (857)  and Light SA and growth slows
from South Korea to  Poland . Bulls say  emerging markets  will lead
the next stage of the global rally as record low interest rates
send investors into riskier securities. Pessimists say the trend
will continue as investors favor more transparent markets.  “The old rules of thumb may need to be questioned,” Wayne Lin, a money manager at Baltimore-based Legg Mason Inc., which
oversees about $661 billion, said in a phone interview. “It is
surprising to many investors that emerging markets haven’t
participated in the rally.”  Correlation Drops  Money managers surveyed by Bank of America Corp. cut
developing-nation  shares  in March for the first time in six
months while boosting positions in the  U.S. (SPX)  to the highest level
since July, Michael Hartnett, the bank’s chief investment
strategist in New York, wrote in a March 19 report. Morgan
Stanley, owner of the world’s largest brokerage, reduced its
estimate for gains in emerging-market equities on March 18 while
boosting its projections for U.S. and Japanese shares.  MSCI’s emerging index rose 0.6 percent at 4 p.m. in New
York, after falling 2.6 percent last week. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index
fell 0.4 percent to 1,426.61 after a 0.8 percent decline last
week. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.3 percent to
1,551.69.  The 120-day  correlation  between the two MSCI gauges fell to
an eight-year low of 0.54 on March 14. A reading of 1 shows
lockstep moves, while minus 1 means opposite directions.  Asian Crisis  Investors willing to endure bigger price swings in
developing nations have usually been rewarded during global
stock  rallies . Emerging shares beat developed equities by an
average 46 percentage points during bull markets -- defined as a
gain of at least 20 percent in the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD) 
from a recent low without a decline of the same magnitude --
since the index data began in 1988.  Now, developing markets are trailing after most of their
companies missed analyst profit  estimates  for the last five
quarters and economic expansions from China to  Brazil  slowed to
the weakest rates since 2009. A majority of MSCI World companies
beat earnings projections, while the pace of U.S. growth has
rebounded to levels reached before the financial crisis.  The only other bull market emerging stocks lagged behind
was from September 1990 through July 1998, a period when U.S.
shares  surged  during the dot-com bubble and  Asian (MXAPJ)  equities were
dragged down by the region’s financial crisis.  Volatility (EEM)  in the MSCI emerging index was higher than that
of the developed-country gauge during each rally, by about 30
percent on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Emerging equities also posted steeper declines and bigger price
swings than developed  shares  during bear markets, the data show.  ‘Safety Play’  The current rally suggests equity investors are still
hesitant to take on risk, five years after the worst financial
crisis since the 1930s sparked a contraction in the global
economy and wiped out $37 trillion of stock market  value ,
according to Wells Fargo Advisors LLC’s Scott Wren.  “It’s a safety play,” said Wren, the St. Louis, Missouri-
based senior equity strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors, which
oversees about $1.2 trillion. “People want to own stocks more
than they did a while ago, but they want to be a little
cautious.”  Brazilian shares led the decline in emerging markets this
year, with the benchmark  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  falling 9.4 percent.
 Light SA (LIGT3) , a Rio de Janeiro-based power distributor, tumbled 18
percent this year as President Dilma Rousseff cut electricity
rates by as much as 32 percent in a bid to boost economic
growth. Poland’s  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  dropped 8.2 percent as figures
showed the nation’s economic expansion slowed for a fourth
straight quarter in the period ended December.  Economic Surprises  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  surged 19 percent in 2013,
the biggest gain among 45 equity indexes in emerging and
developed markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s
biggest consumer electronics exporter, jumped 73 percent this
year as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took steps to weaken the yen
and revive the economy with more expansionary monetary policies.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 9.2 percent since
the end of December and closed last week at 1,556.89, within 1
percent of its all-time high.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, increased 14 percent this year as the
Federal Reserve pledged to continue its unprecedented monetary
stimulus and the housing market showed signs of a sustained
recovery.  ‘Enormous Momentum’  The U.S. Citigroup Economic Surprise Index, a  measure  of
how much reports are exceeding economists’ estimates, rose to a
two-month high on March 14 while the  gauge  for emerging markets
shows reports have trailed projections since January.  “The U.S. has been delivering,” said Russ Koesterich, the
chief investment strategist at New York-based BlackRock Inc.,
the world’s largest money manager with $3.8 trillion in assets.  Not all emerging markets are losing. Thailand’s SET Index
has surged 73 percent since the current global rally began on
Oct. 4, 2011, while the  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rose 70
percent. The Thai economy may expand by as much as 5.5 percent
this year and the  Philippines  will probably grow at least 6
percent, according to government estimates. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg predict a 1.9 percent expansion in the U.S.  “These are emerging markets and they have flaws,” said
Byron Wien, vice chairman of the advisory services unit at
Blackstone Group LP, the world’s largest manager of alternative
assets such as private equity. “They also have enormous
economic momentum and the developed markets are mature and the
momentum is not as pronounced.”  Lower Debt  Wien said emerging markets will lead gains in global stocks
this year with “double digit” returns.  Developing nations are becoming safer bets by some
measures. Government debt has declined to 34 percent of gross
domestic product from 52 percent a decade ago, according to the
Washington-based International Monetary Fund. That compares with
110 percent in advanced countries.  Emerging markets have more than $6 trillion of foreign
exchange reserves, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The extra
yield investors demand to own their sovereign bonds over U.S.
Treasuries has  narrowed  to 3 percentage points, or 300 basis
points, from an average of 371 during the past five years,
according to the JPMorgan EMBI Global Index.  “Relative to Europe and Japan, emerging markets do not
have the same indebtedness problem,” said David Kelly, who
helps oversee about $400 billion as the New York-based chief
global strategist at JPMorgan Funds.  Rousseff Intervention  Developing stocks also have lower valuations. The MSCI
emerging gauge trades for 10 times analysts’ 12-month profit
 estimates , versus 13 times for the MSCI World, the widest gap
since November 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the biggest emerging markets, government interference is
eroding returns for minority shareholders. PetroChina, which
dropped 6.7 percent in Hong Kong trading this year, posted
annual earnings that trailed analysts’ estimates on March 21 as
the government capped retail fuel and natural gas prices to
contain inflation.  Brazil’s Rousseff has intervened to curb utility rates,
bank lending margins, mobile-phone fees and fuel prices --
reducing earnings prospects for industries with a combined
 weighting  of about 50 percent in the Bovespa index.  OAO MRSK Holding (MRKH) , a Moscow-based power distributor, tumbled
49 percent during the past 12 months as President Vladimir Putin
delayed tariff increases and signed a decree to combine the
company with state-run Federal Grid Co., instead of selling
shares to private investors as some analysts had anticipated.  Fed Stimulus  “The risk of the emerging markets is that the
institutional frameworks are still a work in progress,” said
Rupal Bhansali, who helps oversee about $5 billion as a New
York-based chief investment officer for international equities
at Ariel Investments LLC.  Inflation is preventing central banks in emerging markets
from stimulating their economies as much as developed nations,
said Jason Hsu, the chief investment officer of Newport Beach,
California-based Research Affiliates LLC.  Consumer prices in Brazil rose at the fastest pace since
December 2011 in February, spurring speculation that the central
bank will raise its benchmark interest rate this year. People’s
Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said at a March 13 press
conference that policy makers should be on “high alert” over
inflation, while India’s central bank said on March 19 that
scope for further monetary easing is limited.  By contrast, the Federal Reserve maintained its $85
billion-a-month bond purchase program on March 20 and Bank of
Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda vowed the next day to pursue
“bold” monetary stimulus.  “I can certainly see quantitative easing continuing” in
advanced economies, said Andrew Milligan, who helps oversee
about $264 billion as head of global strategy at Edinburgh-based
Standard Life Investments Ltd. “At the margin, that’s going to
support developed rather than emerging markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in Hong Kong at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  