-- Chemical Weapons Probably Used in Syria, Rogers Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-03-24T17:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/rogers-says-mounting-evidence-of-probable-chemical-weapon-use.html
U.S. Representative Mike Rogers
said it is “probable” that the regime of  Syria ’s Bashar al- Assad has used chemical weapons in that country’s civil war.  “When you look at the whole body of information” that
“over the last two years there is mounting evidence that it is
probable that the Assad regime has used at least a small
quantity of chemical weapons,” Rogers, a Michigan Republican
and chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said today on
CBS’s  “Face the Nation” program.  Syrian government claims of a rebel chemical attack, and
opposition counterclaims that regime forces resorted to chemical
warfare in three instances since December, have sparked concern
over the safekeeping of chemical weapons in a two-year civil war
that has killed more than 70,000 people. Syria holds the
region’s largest stockpile.  The  United Nations  said March 21 that it will investigate
the Assad government’s claims that opposition forces killed 25
people in Aleppo province by launching a rocket laden with
chemicals on March 19. The opposition said Assad’s troops used a
toxic weapon.  While rebel fighters, including groups affiliated with a
al-Qaeda in Iraq, have pushed Assad’s army from territory in the
north of the country, they have failed to create a united
political and military structure two years after anti-Assad
protests began.  Mideast Destabilization  “This is a growing destabilizing event in the  Middle
East ,” Rogers said. “The fact that they have, I think, put
chemical weapons in a position to use, and I believe have intent
and at some course during the last two years have used some
quantity of chemical weapons, this needs to be a game changer.”  The U.S. needs to reengage with the opposition “so we can
vet them, train them, equip them so that they can be an
effective fighting force,” Rogers said.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  urged Iraq’s Shiite-
dominated government today to stop Iranian aircraft from using
Iraqi airspace to ship arms and fighters to Syria’s military.
Shiite Muslim-ruled  Iran  supports Assad, whose Alawite sect is
affiliated with Shiite Islam.  Syria and  Israel  exchanged gunfire this weekend in the
 Golan Heights , which Israel captured from Syria in the 1967
Middle East war. Syria’s neighbors, including Israel and  Turkey ,
fear the possibility that terrorist groups will get hold of
Syria’s chemical weapons.  President  Barack Obama  last week promised an extra $200
million in aid to help Syria’s neighbor Jordan cope with the
flood of refugees from Syria that King Abdullah II says is
straining his country’s economy as well as posing a risk to
regional stability. Jordan has absorbed 460,000 refugees fleeing
the Syrian civil war and that number may double by the end of
the year, according to Abdullah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  