-- Sinopec Joins China Peers in Posting Lower Full-Year Profits
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-03-24T23:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/sinopec-2012-profit-beats-estimates-as-refining-losses-narrow.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ,
Asia’s biggest refiner, joined PetroChina Co. in posting lower
2012 profits, as the nation’s largest energy companies look to
overseas growth to counter the impact of price controls at home.  Net income at China Petroleum, know as Sinopec, fell to
63.9 billion  yuan  ($10.3 billion), or 0.71 yuan a share, from
73.2 billion yuan, or 0.81 yuan, in 2011, the company said in a
statement to the Shanghai Stock Exchange. That compares with the
61.8 billion yuan mean of 26 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chinese energy companies are casting abroad for growth
opportunities as declining domestic fields and government price
controls weigh on profits. Despite narrowing their refining
losses in 2012, costs for Sinopec and PetroChina are expected to
increase as they are tasked with upgrading facilities to improve
fuel quality and combat air pollution.  Sinopec’s refining business may have already become
profitable in the fourth quarter of 2012, Simon Powell, head of
Asian oil and gas research at CLSA Ltd. in Hong Kong, said
yesterday. Sinopec doesn’t report quarterly refining numbers.  “Everyone is expecting refining business to be better this
year, the big question mark is whether the petrochemical sector
can show a recovery or not,” said Powell. “Capital spending
may go up a bit in order to meet higher fuel standards, but it
should not be a big burden as Sinopec can charge higher prices
for higher grades.”  Parent Venture  Units of Sinopec and its parent company  China  Petrochemical
Corp., known as Sinopec Group, will form a joint venture to
acquire overseas oil and gas assets owned by the parent for
about $3 billion, to strengthen its reserves and production,
Sinopec said in the statement. It will spend $1.5 billion on the
venture, Sinopec said.  Sinopec will spend 33.8 billion yuan on refining this year,
and “the focus will be on its fuel standards upgrade
projects,” according to the state-owned refiner’s statement
yesterday. In 2012, the company spent 32.2 billion yuan on
refining.  Sinopec’s oil and natural gas production in 2012 rose 4.9
percent from the previous year to 428 million barrels, it said.  Canadian Government  Sinopec’s parent agreed to pay  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) 
$1.02 billion for a 50 percent interest in 850,000 acres
Chesapeake controls in the Mississippi Lime formation, the
company said Feb. 25.  Cnooc Ltd., China’s third-biggest energy company and its
largest offshore oil and gas producer, in February won approval
from the U.S. Committee on Foreign Investment to buy  Nexen Inc. (NXY) 
for $15.1 billion, after the Canadian government approved the
deal in December. The acquisition, which will add 20 percent to
Cnooc’s production and 30 percent to its reserves, was passed
after the company relinquished operating control of rigs in the
Gulf of Mexico. The Canadian government had early said that
future acquisitions in oil sands by state-owned foreign
companies would be rejected barring “exceptional
circumstances.”  State Owned  After reporting lower 2012 profits on Friday,  Cnooc (883)  Chief
Executive Officer Li Fanrong said the acquisition would be a
platform for future growth and that Chinese companies will
increasingly win foreign acceptance.  “State-owned companies like us have no difference with
western companies in terms of business operations,” Li said.
“China’s state-owned enterprises will be more and more welcomed
by the host countries of natural resources.”  PetroChina and its parent China National Petroleum Corp.,
the country’s biggest oil and gas producer, have spent about $5
billion to add oil and gas assets globally from the beginning of
the year.  Sinopec’s operating loss for refining reached 11.9 billion
yuan in 2012, compared with a loss of 37.6 billion yuan in 2011,
according to the statement.  PetroChina Co. (857) , the country’s second
biggest refiner, lost 43.5 billion yuan on refining last year,
narrowing from a loss of 60.1 billion yuan in 2011. The company
reported lower 2012 profits on Thursday.  Fuel Prices  China increased fuel prices for first time since September
on Feb. 25, raising gasoline by 300 yuan a metric ton and diesel
by 290 yuan a ton. Gasoline and diesel prices are set by the
National Development and Reform Commission under a system that
tracks the 22-day moving average of a basket of crudes,
comprising Brent, Dubai and  Indonesia ’s Cinta. The commission
plans to shorten the fuel price adjustment window, former NDRC
Chairman Zhang Ping said on March 6, without providing details.  “Refining margins will be helped by the price increase and
sentiment should improve for the Chinese refiners, particularly
Sinopec,” analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein wrote in a Feb. 25
note to clients.  After record-high levels of pollution blanketed Beijing in
January, the State Council, China’s cabinet, said on Feb. 6 that
the government will publish new standards for diesel in June and
gasoline in December, capping sulfur content at 10 parts per
million, with the rules being implemented nationwide by 2017.
The statement named all three of China’s major oil companies.  The plan announced subsequently by Sinopec’s parent to
upgrade plants to produce fuel with less sulfur would be
negative for the company’s credit outlook, Moody’s Investors
Service said.  “The increased capital spending of around 30 billion to 40
billion yuan will most likely be funded with debt,” Moody’s
said in a report on Feb. 7. “We expect the company’s internally
generated operating cash flow will be insufficient to cover its
capex in 2013-14.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  