-- Snow Heads Toward Mid-Atlantic After Dumping on Colorado, Plains
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-03-24T19:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/snow-heads-toward-mid-atlantic-after-dumping-on-colorado-plains.html
A storm that walloped parts of
 Colorado  and the Plains states with more than a foot of snow is
heading east, with as much as six inches of snowfall expected in
some towns and cities in the U.S. mid-Atlantic region.  Delaware and central and southern New Jersey may see the
heaviest accumulation, with three to six inches falling
beginning tonight and ending tomorrow afternoon, according to
Mark Paquette, a meteorologist at AccuWeather in  State College ,
Pennsylvania.  “Philadelphia is the closest major city to that location,
so that’s the city we’re most worried about,” Paquette said in
a telephone interview.  The Interstate 95 corridor from Washington to Philadelphia
may get one to three inches of snow, with Philadelphia having
the highest chance of exceeding that forecast, Paquette said. In
 New York City , one to two inches of snow is forecast. Boston,
which has already had almost 64 inches of snowfall, 21 inches
more than its average accumulation, is expected to be spared
this storm.  Paquette called the early spring snowfall “almost unheard
of,” particularly for D.C. and Baltimore.  In Colorado, Interstate 70 reopened today between Denver
and the Kansas state line after blowing snow halted traffic on
the major east-west link across the Plains. Denver received
11.6 inches of snow, while 14 inches fell in Aurora, according
to AccuWeather.  In northwestern Kansas, the town of Goodland got 14 inches
of snow.  The  Associated Press  reported the weather forced the
cancellation of about 100 flights at Denver International
Airport. The wire service said winds as strong as 45 miles per
hour led to snow drifts as high as 3 feet in some parts of
Nebraska, Colorado and Kansas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net  