-- South Korea Escalates Concern With Japan Policies on Yen
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-03-25T02:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/south-korea-escalates-concern-with-japan-policies-as-yen-slides.html
South Korea ’s newly appointed
finance minister, Hyun Oh Seok, revived his nation’s concerns
over weakness in the yen and said that the Group of 20 nations
should revisit the issue.  “Japan’s expansionary policies are having various ripple
effects on many countries,” Hyun, 62, told reporters on March
23 in Bundang, on his second day as finance chief. “The yen is
depreciating while the won is gaining and this is flashing a red
light for Korea’s exports.”  Japan central bank Governor Haruhiko Kuroda is poised to
boost monetary easing, expanding a campaign to defeat deflation
that triggered an 11 percent decline in the yen against the
dollar in the past three months. South  Korea  expressed concerns
about the currency’s slide before and after last month’s meeting
of the G-20 in Moscow, where that organization refrained from
criticizing Japanese policies.  “The South Korean government is well aware that the
negative influence on the economy from the yen’s depreciation is
not small,” said Lee Sang Jae, a Seoul-based economist at
Hyundai Securities Co. The nations are in “a competing
relationship, not a complementary one,” said Lee.  South Korean officials are concerned at the yen’s slide
because the nation depends on exports for economic growth and
competes in overseas markets with Japanese manufacturers of cars
and electronics. At the Moscow meeting, G-20 nations pledged not
“to target our exchange rates for competitive purposes,”
without any censure of  Japan  for the yen’s decline.  Japanese View  Japan’s government says it is not targeting the yen, with
declines in the currency a side-effect of efforts to spur a
sustained recovery in the world’s third-biggest economy.  Officials have pushed back at international criticism of
Japanese policies, with Deputy Economy Minister Yasutoshi
Nishimura alleging in an interview on Jan. 24 that South Korea
attempts to manage its own currency.  “While the yen is traded completely openly, there may be
intervention on the won and the country has fixed regulations on
foreign investments,” he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  said in October 2012 that
South Korea was one of several Asian economies whose currencies
would strengthen with a “more desirable” set of policies. In
2011, the fund said that the won’s real effective exchange rate
was undervalued by about 10 percent.  The yen weakened today after a European Union announcement
that Cyprus reached an agreement on an international bailout.
The Japanese currency fell 0.4 percent to 94.84 per dollar as of
11:31 a.m. in  Tokyo , while the won strengthened the most in
almost three weeks, rising 0.5 percent to 1,113.20 per dollar.  “While we will do what we can, we need international
cooperation to deal with the weak-yen problem,” Hyun told
reporters. “This should be discussed at the G-20.”  ‘All Measures’  Hyun’s comments came as he toured markets in Seoul and
Bundang, checking on prices of goods after the new government
under President Park Geun Hye pledged efforts to aid low income
earners. Appointed by Park on March 22, Hyun said in his
inaugural speech he would use “all possible measures to speed
the economic recovery,” and indicated that government support
would come as early as this month.  “We need to factor in the yen problem as we think about
policy measures, as exports and domestic demand are two big
pillars of our economy,” Hyun said on March 23. Stabilizing
foreign-exchange markets should always be an important part of
government policy, since currency moves can be a source of
shocks, he said.  Yoon Sang Jick, minister of trade, industry and energy,
also underscored the importance of stability in the foreign-
exchange market, in e-mailed comments yesterday.  Aging Population  Hyun’s appointment last week in the face of objections from
opposition lawmakers may bring forward measures that Park hopes
will spur the economy after growth last year was the weakest
since the global financial crisis. Challenges include a stagnant
 property market , an aging population, and weakness in the yen.  Hyun was president of the state research center  Korea
Development Institute , which was founded by Park’s father,
former dictator Park Chung Hee. He has a Ph.D. in economics from
the  University of Pennsylvania  and previously worked at the
 World Bank , as well as South Korea’s  finance ministry .  The government may announce a supplementary budget of 10
trillion won ($8.9 billion) on March 26, Yonhap News reported
last week, without saying where it got the information. Choi Sang Mok, a director general at the finance ministry, said no
decision had been made.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  