-- Syrian Opposition Leader Al-Khatib Quits, Citing ‘Red Lines’
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-03-24T18:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/syrian-opposition-leader-al-khatib-resigns-citing-red-lines-.html
Syrian opposition leader Moaz al- Khatib, whose offer to hold talks with President Bashar al- Assad’s regime was resisted by his comrades, resigned as head of
the rebel coalition as the  Arab League  agreed to recognize the
group as Syria’s representative.  “I announce my resignation from the National Coalition, so
that I can work with a freedom that cannot possibly be had in an
official institution,” al-Khatib said in a statement published
today on his Facebook page. “I had promised the great Syrian
people and promised God that I would resign if matters reached
some red lines.”  The Syrian National Coalition rejected his resignation,
asking al-Khatib “to go back to his work as the president” of
the group, according to a statement it e-mailed late today.  While rebel fighters, including groups affiliated with al-
Qaeda in  Iraq , have pushed Assad’s army from territory in the
north, they have failed to create a united political and
military structure in the two years since anti-Assad protests
began.  The resignation “showed the divisions that unfortunately
continue to affect the Syrian coalition,”  Andrew Tabler , a
senior fellow in the Arab politics program at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy, said in response to e-mailed
questions. “There are also divisions between those inside the
country and out.”  John Kerry  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said while on a one-day
trip to  Baghdad  that he was sorry though unsurprised that al-
Khatib resigned. “We view this as a continuum, it’s not about
one person, it’s about a regime that’s killing its people,” he
told reporters, expressing confidence that Assad will eventually
negotiate his exit from power.  President  Barack Obama  is under mounting pressure at home
and from European and Middle Eastern allies to do more to
support the Syrian opposition in a civil war that the United
Nations estimates has claimed at least 70,000 lives and left 5
million as refugees or in need of aid. Britain and  France  this
month pressed their European Union partners to lift an arms
embargo on  Syria .  “We have been slaughtered under the watchful eyes of the
world for two years, in an unprecedented manner by a vicious
regime,” al-Khatib said in his statement. “Many have offered a
hand on a purely humanitarian basis and we thank them for
that.”  Muslim Cleric  Al-Khatib, a former Damascus cleric, was appointed head of
the National Coalition for Opposition Forces and the Syrian
Revolution in November.  Qatar’s Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim Al Thani
said Arab League foreign ministers were in communication with
al-Khatib and said he hoped al-Khatib would reconsider his
resignation.  Granting the Syrian opposition a seat in the Arab League is
a “historic opportunity after their sacrifices for more than
two years and after their brave resistance,” Sheikh Jassim told
reporters after the foreign ministers’ meeting.  In another setback to the opposition’s unity, the rebel
Free Syrian Army said today it won’t recognize the Syrian
opposition’s newly elected interim Prime Minister Ghassan Hitto,
 Sky News  reported. The U.S. citizen was appointed this month to
administer areas of the country held by rebels fighting to
overthrow Assad.  Foreign Ministers  Arab foreign ministers agreed to give the Syrian
government’s vacant seat in the Arab League to an executive body
to be formed by the SNC, Jordan’s Foreign Minister Nasser Judeh
said today in Doha. He spoke while attending an Arab foreign
ministers’ preparatory meeting in Doha.  Al-Khatib attributed his resignation “to lack of
international support, but that support has steadily been
increasing from the Arab League and the West,” Tabler said.  The civil war has weakened the Syrian economy and is
threatening the country’s currency, Central Bank Governor Adib Mayaleh said on state TV today. “The pound will certainly
collapse” if people continue to replace the local currency with
dollars, he said. The increase in the dollar rate isn’t real,
Mayaleh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  