-- Kerry Visits Iraq in Push to Halt Iran Flights Aiding Syria
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-03-24T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/u-s-secretary-of-state-kerry-lands-in-baghdad-will-meet-maliki.html
John Kerry, the first secretary of
state to visit  Iraq  in four years, urged Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki to stop Iran from using Iraqi airspace to fly arms and
fighters to  Syria ’s military, arguing that if Iraq wants a say
in Syria’s future, it must help end the bloody conflict there.  Kerry, 69, said he also pressed Iraq’s leaders to abandon
the factionalism and dysfunction among the Shiite ruling party,
the Sunni opposition and the semi-autonomous Kurdish regional
government. The U.S. says the discord has hindered Iraqi unity,
economic reconstruction and foreign investment needed to exploit
the world’s fifth-largest proven  crude-oil deposits .  The trip, which for security reasons wasn’t made public
until Kerry’s arrival, coincided with the 10-year anniversary
this month of the U.S.-led invasion to topple Saddam Hussein and
followed a spate of coordinated terrorist bombings that killed
more than 60 people last week.  Since the departure of the last U.S. troops from Iraq in
December 2011, the influence of neighboring Shiite  Iran  on
Maliki’s Shiite-dominated government has grown, as the U.S.
ability to sway Iraqi politics and foreign policy has waned. Two
years of so-called Arab uprisings across the region and the
spillover from the ongoing conflict in Syria on Iraq’s western
border have further complicated life for Iraq’s leaders.  Kerry told reporters he made it clear to Maliki that the
U.S. considers Iranian flights delivering military aid to Syria
“problematic,” because they are helping to keep President
Bashar al-Assad in power. He said he had a “very spirited
discussion” with Maliki, and told him that Iraq’s reluctance to
halt the flights has some in  Washington  questioning Iraq’s
commitment to the U.S. partnership.  Pressure on Obama  The two-year-old revolt against Assad has become a source
of discord between the U.S. and Iraq. President  Barack Obama ,
who said early on that Assad must go, is under mounting pressure
from European and Middle Eastern allies and some in Congress to
do more to support Syrian rebels in a civil war that the United
Nations estimates has claimed at least 70,000 lives.  The airspace over Iraq has become a main resupply route for
Syrian forces, with almost daily flights by Iran to funnel
weapons and fighters to prop up Assad, according to a senior
State Department official, who spoke to reporters on condition
of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue.  Syria, Iran’s ally in the region, is a conduit for Iranian
aid to the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah, according to the
U.S. The U.S. and  Israel  designate Hezbollah as a terrorist
group and have urged the EU to do the same.  Analysts have said Maliki may be turning a blind eye to
Iran’s support for Assad, whose Alawite sect is affiliated with
Shiite Islam, for his own reasons -- worry about the possible
triumph of Sunni-extremist Syrian rebels or fear of reprisals if
he were to oppose Iran, his eastern neighbor.  Kerry’s Priority  Kerry has embraced the Syrian conflict as a top priority in
his first months in office, pledging to boost U.S. support to
Syrian rebels and publicly reasoning that when Assad realizes he
cannot vanquish the armed rebellion, he will have to negotiate a
political transition. Until now, though, Iranian and Russian
military support for Assad appears to have reinforced his belief
that he can prevail, U.S. Ambassador to Syria Robert Ford told
Congress last week.  Under pressure from then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Iraq agreed last year to conduct inspections of Iranian
flights to Syria, though it has done only two searches so far --
one after a flight had left Syria, U.S. officials say. Iran says
the aircraft ferry humanitarian aid, and Maliki has pressed the
U.S. for proof that Iran is transporting lethal supplies.  While the end of U.S. military involvement in Iraq
fulfilled a 2008 campaign promise made by Obama, the troops’
withdrawal was hastened by the failure of the two governments to
renew a status-of-forces agreement to exempt American troops
from local prosecution.  Lives Lost  The war that toppled Hussein took the lives of more than
111,762 Iraqis, according to Iraq Body Count, a London-based
nonprofit group, and 4,486 U.S. service members, according to
icasualties.org, which tracks figures from the U.S. military and
news organizations.  In his conversations with Iraqi leaders yesterday, Kerry
paid tribute to the lives lost.  The Iraq invasion also cost the U.S. $823 billion in direct
federal spending through 2012, the Congressional Research
Service estimated in a new report. Only World War II had a
higher direct cost -- $4.1 trillion in current dollars.  For that high price in lives and funds, the U.S. presence
has diminished rapidly in both personnel and influence since the
last combat troops withdrew. A year ago, the staffing of the
U.S. mission throughout Iraq totaled 16,000, including direct
hires and contractors, while staffing now is at 10,500, the
State Department official said. By end of this year, it will be
cut by about half, to 5,100.  Waning Influence  In a report issued this month by the U.S. Special Inspector
General for Iraq Reconstruction, former Defense Secretary Leon Panetta was quoted as saying the withdrawal of forces had
reduced U.S. influence over Maliki’s government.  Still, Kerry -- the first top American diplomat to visit
since Clinton in 2009 -- tried to persuade Maliki yesterday to
hold talks with Sunni and Kurdish political leaders to repair
discord among the country’s sectarian groups.  “All Iraqis must work together so they can come together
as a nation,” Kerry told reporters after his talks.  He urged Maliki to reconsider his decision to postpone
April 20 elections only in the Sunni-dominated provinces of
Anbar and Nineveh, and to respect peaceful demonstrations. Kerry
also queried what critics have called the politically motivated
pursuit of opposition figures.  In a separate meeting with Sunni leader and parliamentary
speaker Usama Al-Nujaifi, Kerry pushed Sunni politicians to end
their boycott of the Iraqi cabinet, saying they will have more
influence while inside the government.  Oil Industry  Sectarian tensions, a dispute between the central
government and the country’s semi-autonomous Kurds, and foreign
investor concerns about fee-based oil contracts have complicated
Iraq’s efforts to revitalize its most important industry.  The Kurds have sought a direct pipeline to  Turkey  that
would undercut a unified Iraqi oil strategy.  Kerry spoke by phone with Kurdish Regional Government
leader Massoud Barzani and urged him to abandon any direct deals
with Turkey and focus having a national strategy for exporting
energy.  OPEC Producer  Iraq overtook Iran last year to become the biggest producer
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries after Saudi
Arabia. The country pumped 3.2 million barrels a day of oil in
February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and plans to
boost output to an average 3.7 million barrels a day this year,
Oil Minister Abdul Kareem Al-Luaibi told reporters in Vienna on
Dec. 9.  Many U.S. energy companies interested in the Iraqi oil
sector have been held back by the country’s failure so far to
establish uniform contracting regulations, the State Department
official said. The U.S. government has urged all energy
companies to think about their investments in whatever region as
part of a unified Iraqi oil industry, the official said.  Brent crude futures, a benchmark for more than half the
world’s oil, ended the March 22 trading session in  London  at
$107.66 a barrel. Brent has lost 3 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Baghdad at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  