-- U.S. Consumer Spending Probably Rose Most in Five Months
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-03-24T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/u-s-consumer-spending-probably-rose-most-in-five-months.html
Consumer spending  probably
increased in February by the most in five months as  incomes 
rebounded, providing a kick for the  U.S. economy  at the start of
the year, economists project a report to show this week.  Purchases rose 0.6 percent last month after climbing 0.2
percent in January, according to the median of 61 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey before Commerce Department figures due on March
29. Other data may show the biggest gain in durable goods orders
in five months and sustained strength in the housing market.  Resilient personal spending that accounts for 70 percent of
the economy, along with advances in manufacturing and housing,
points to a broadening of the expansion. Labor market progress
and an increase in household wealth linked to rising home values
and  stocks  are helping Americans navigate the hurdles of higher
payroll taxes and elevated  gasoline prices .  “Consumer spending is growing at a decent pace, given all
the headwinds,” said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist for IHS
Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “Capital goods
orders are moving up again. That says something about domestic
demand.”  The Commerce Department’s report may also show that incomes
grew  0.9 percent  following a 3.6 percent plunge in January that
was the biggest since 1993, economists in the Bloomberg survey
projected. A 2 percentage-point increase in the payroll tax rate
went into effect at the start of the year.  Incomes are being buoyed by payroll growth. Employers added
a net 236,000 workers in February after a 119,000 increase the
prior month. Average hourly earnings climbed 2.1 percent from
February 2012, matching the year-over-year gains in the previous
two months as the strongest since March 2012.  Williams-Sonoma  Williams-Sonoma Inc. (WSM)  is among retailers enjoying a pickup
in sales. Same-store purchases at its West Elm home-goods chain
increased 19 percent in the San Francisco-based company’s fiscal
fourth quarter, while sales at Pottery Barn Kids advanced 7.7
percent.  Some merchants are forecasting the pace of sales will be
sustained throughout the year.  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-largest
U.S. department-store chain, projects sales at stores open at
least a year will rise 3.5 percent this year, after growing 3.7
percent in 2012.  Spending on big-ticket items like automobiles is also
growing as households replace older vehicles and take advantage
of low borrowing costs. Cars and light trucks sold at a 15.3
million annual rate in February after a 15.2 million pace the
prior month, Ward’s Automotive Group data showed.  Rising stock prices and a recovering housing market are
helping boost household finances. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  climbed to a record this month and the broader Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index closed on March 22 within 10 points of an
all-time high.  Property Values  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities,
to be released March 26, climbed 7.9 percent in the 12 months
ended January, the biggest year-over-year gain since June 2006,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  The same day, the Commerce Department may report a 420,000
annualized pace of  new home  sales last month after they reached
437,000 in January, which was the highest level since July 2008,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. Figures from the
National Association of Realtors the following day may show more
Americans  signed contracts  to buy previously owned properties
last month.  Persistent strength in the  auto industry  is helping give a
lift to the nation’s factories. Orders for durable goods, those
meant to last at least three years, jumped 3.9 percent in
February after a 4.9 percent slump the prior month, Commerce
Department data may show on March 26.  Boeing Orders  The gain probably reflected a rebound in demand for
commercial aircraft.  Boeing Co. (BA)  said earlier this month that it
received orders for 179 aircraft in February, up from two a
month earlier.  Durable bookings  excluding  the volatile  transportation
industry  probably increased for the sixth consecutive month, the
Commerce Department’s report may show.  3M Co. (MMM) , the  St. Paul , Minnesota-based maker of products
ranging from  Scotch tape  to dental braces, is among companies
expecting that steady growth in the U.S. will help offset
weakness in other markets such as  Europe , especially in the
consumer electronics business.  “We’re operating pretty steady in the U.S. and  Latin
America ,” David Meline, chief financial officer, said at a
March 21 conference. “In  Asia , it’s more mixed. Western Europe
continues to have a number of challenges.”  Finally, revised figures from the Commerce Department on
March 28 may show the economy expanded at a revised 0.5 percent
annual pace in the fourth quarter, faster than the government’s
previous estimate of 0.1 percent growth, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  