-- Unlock Phones So People Can Use Public Airwaves
-- B y   S u s a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-03-24T22:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/unlock-phones-so-people-can-use-public-airwaves.html
What if, when you bought a new
television, you had to decide which electrical network you’d
like to use it on. That is essentially the problem most
Americans face whenever they buy a mobile phone.  Subsidized  Verizon Wireless  handsets can’t function on AT&T
Inc.’s network, and AT&T handsets don’t work on Verizon’s. This
technical limitation, which is backed up by rules borrowed from
copyright law, makes competition between the networks
unrealistic. Other countries view this situation with amusement.  Congress and the Federal Communications Commission can fix
it: The public licenses that allow carriers to operate their
networks should carry the obligation to allow customers to use
any handset they like.  Both AT&T and Verizon Wireless sell handsets to their
customers below cost, then recoup the loss and add a hefty
profit by way of contracts that last for years. According to a
rule issued earlier this year by the U.S. Copyright Office,
without permission from the companies, consumers may not legally
“unlock” the handsets to enable them to work on a network other
than the one they were designed for.  Using copyright law to police mobile phones seems like
applying food and drug regulation to cars: It doesn’t fit. But
the Copyright Office argues that the computer program that
allows a mobile phone to be used on a certain network is not
only a mechanism for protecting the carrier’s business but also
a creative work, like a novel.  Copyright Law  A 1998 law, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, prohibits
gaining access to something that is copyrighted by working
around its technical shields. Although in the past the Copyright
Office has allowed an exception for consumer unlocking of mobile
phones, this year it switched gears and  banned the practice .  Earlier this month, after 114,000 Americans signed a
 petition protesting  that decision, the White House said it
didn’t like it, either. FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  has said
the ban on unlocking raises concerns about unfair competition.
Lawmakers in Congress from both parties have introduced, or are
planning, legislation, and we can expect a  flurry of hearings 
soon.  More significant than the legality of phone unlocking is
what’s at stake for Americans. As a practical matter, even an
unlocked phone may not work on certain networks because it lacks
the radio transmitters and receivers it needs to function there.
Verizon Wireless and AT&T intentionally use  separate portions  of
 radio spectrum . And different radio transmitters take best
advantage of different frequencies. Those that are built for one
carrier won’t necessarily work on the other’s network.  This is fine for big and powerful Verizon and AT&T. Device
makers and computer-chip manufacturers will build customized
mobile phones for each of them. However, as the Competitive
Carriers Association has  pointed out , manufacturers will have no
incentive to make mobile phones for smaller and regional
companies at a competitive cost.  The FCC, with backing from Congress, should allow consumers
to bring their devices to any network they want to use. And
carriers should be required to sell access to their networks to
all comers, not just those who buy single-network devices.  The next time you are faced with a long-term contract for a
deeply subsidized handset that is locked to one carrier,
remember that wireless networks are constructed on public
airwaves. This is a problem we can fix.  (Susan P. Crawford, a contributor to Bloomberg View and a
professor at the Cardozo School of Law, is the author of
“Captive Audience: The Telecom Industry and Monopoly Power in
the New Gilded Age.” The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan P. Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net  or  @scrawford  on
Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  