-- Musharraf Returns to Pakistan Ending Exile Before Elections
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-03-24T19:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-24/musharraf-lands-in-karachi-ending-exile-ahead-of-may-elections.html
Former Pakistan military ruler
 Pervez Musharraf , who quit as president in 2008 to avoid
possible impeachment and went into exile, returned to his
country yesterday vowing to contest May’s general election.  His party secured a bail agreement to prevent the ex-
dictator being arrested on arrival in the nation, where he faces
charges of illegally detaining judges and failing to provide
adequate security for former prime minister  Benazir Bhutto 
before her 2007 assassination.  “I will face the courts,” Musharraf told supporters at
the Karachi airport. “I was not afraid to face them before. I
am not afraid to face them today.”  Since stepping down, Musharraf has based himself in the
Gulf emirates and  London . Several thousand people greeted the
former president, carrying his party’s flag and banners
welcoming him. Security, including police, paramilitary and
airport security force, searched vehicles and passers-by.  He arrived a week after the government of Asif Ali Zardari,
who succeeded Musharraf as president, became the first civilian
administration in the nation’s history to complete its full term
and prepare to transfer power through a ballot. Zardari,
Bhutto’s widower, and his government had said they’d detain
Musharraf if he returned.  While Zardari’s  Pakistan  Peoples Party has alienated voters
amid power cuts, inflation above 7 percent and growing
insecurity nationwide, Musharraf isn’t well placed to capitalize
on its weakness at the ballot box.  ‘Write Books’  “The best thing would be that he writes books rather than
engage in politics,” Hasan-Askari Rizvi, a political analyst
based in Lahore, said March 20. “It’s a miscalculation on his
part” if Musharraf considers a comeback is possible, he said.  The ex-general’s popularity collapsed as economic growth
slowed in the last two years of his rule, and he imposed
emergency restrictions that courts ruled illegal. His successor
as Pakistan’s military commander, army chief Ashfaq Pervez Kayani, ordered officers serving in civilian administrative
posts to return to purely military functions.  The Peoples Party trails in opinion polls, winning half the
support of its leading rival, the Pakistan Muslim League of
former prime minister  Nawaz Sharif , in a March 4 survey
published by Gallup Pakistan. The country’s Election Commission
appointed former judge Mir Hazar Khan Khoso, 83, as interim
prime minister before the elections, after leading political
parties failed to agree on a candidate  Ineffective Governments  As army chief, Musharraf grabbed power in 1999 in a
bloodless coup that ousted Sharif. Pakistanis had been
frustrated with a decade of corrupt and ineffective governments
under Sharif and Bhutto, and opinion polls showed 70 percent of
people supported the coup at the beginning.  Musharraf became a U.S. ally in the fight against al-Qaeda
and Taliban militants after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on
 Washington  and  New York . He survived at least four attempts on
his life by Islamic extremists while in power.  The former army chief blamed Bhutto’s murder on Taliban
militant leader Baitullah Mehsud after she had vowed to help the
U.S. eliminate the insurgents. A United Nations report in 2010
said Bhutto’s killing may have been prevented had security
forces taken proper steps after death threats were made against
her.  “There were biases and personal grudges that some people
within the PPP government held against our president, and we
wanted to avoid such behavior,” Aasia Ishaque, spokeswoman for
Musharraf’s All Pakistan Muslim League party, said by phone when
asked about the timing of the former general’s return.“The
party’s executive committee decided this was the best time to
return home and focus on the elections,” she said.  Jinnah Footsteps  The Sindh High Court on March 22, awarded Musharraf so-
called protective bail to prevent his detention at the airport
in Karachi, his lawyers Salman Safdar and Ahmed Raza Kasuri told
reporters. The order covers the Bhutto assassination, the murder
of a separatist politician, Akbar Bugti, in the country’s
southwestern Baluchistan province, and restrictions placed on
judges in 2007 as Musharraf imposed emergency rule. He has to
appear before judges hearing each case during the bail period.  “Musharraf chose Karachi for his return since this is the
city Jinnah also arrived in, after independence,” Ishaque said.
“We wanted the country’s savior to follow in the footsteps of
the father of the nation.” Muhammad Ali Jinnah was the founder
of Pakistan.  The former army chief will contest the May 11 election from
two cities -- Chitral and Karachi, Ishaque said.  “The poor are being crushed under inflation,” Musharraf
said. “I will make Pakistan for what it was when it was founded
in 1947.”  Pakistan has been run by the military for half its history
with three coups ousting civilian administrations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  