-- Abbott Pledges Surplus Within Decade as Australia Poll Nears
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-08-26T04:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/abbott-pledges-surplus-within-a-decade-as-australia-poll-nears.html
Australian opposition leader  Tony Abbott  officially began his party’s election campaign, pledging
a  budget surplus  equal to 1 percent of gross domestic product
within a decade as polls show he’s set to become prime minister.  “The current government has turned a A$20 billion ($18
billion) surplus into deficits stretching out as far as the eye
can see,” Abbott, 55, told Liberal party supporters yesterday
in a packed hall at the Queensland Performing Arts Centre in
Brisbane. “We can’t afford another three years like the last
six.”  Polls show the Liberal-National coalition leads  Kevin Rudd ’s Labor government ahead of an election on Sept. 7. Abbott
committed to shrinking the government’s share of the economy
each year and made few new policy commitments, constrained by
falling government revenue, with Treasury predicting a budget
deficit of A$30.1 billion for the 12 months through June 2014.  Rudd, 55, who returned to power for a second time in June
by defeating  Julia Gillard  in a Labor leadership vote, is
running out of time to convince voters the party should be re-elected after six years in power, marred by infighting and with
signs of a slowdown in the world’s 12th-largest economy.
Abbott’s coalition needs to increase the seats it holds in the
150-seat lower house by four to form government.  “The election is now the coalition’s to lose,” said
Haydon Manning, a politics professor at Flinders University in
Adelaide. “Rudd’s task now has to be not to win, which looks
unrealistic, but to save some of the furniture in defeat and
avoid a wipeout.”  Poll Margin  The coalition’s two-party preferred vote fell 1 percentage
point from the week before to 53 percent, according to a
Newspoll published in The Australian newspaper today. Labor rose
1 point to 47 percent. The measure is designed to gauge who is
most likely to form a government under  Australia ’s preferential
voting system.  Support for Rudd as preferred prime minister rose 1 point
to 44 percent, while backing for Abbott fell 1 point to 40
percent, according to the telephone survey of 1,129 voters
conducted from Aug. 23-25, which had a margin of error of 3
percentage points.  Griffith Risk  A separate Newspoll published Aug. 24 in The Australian
showed Rudd is at risk of losing his own district of Griffith in
 Brisbane , with support for Labor at 48 percent, compared with 52
percent for the coalition on a two-party preferred basis. The
poll interviewed 500 voters by telephone on Aug. 21 and 22, and
had a margin of error of as much as 4.4 percentage points.  Rudd initially boosted Labor’s popularity on his return as
prime minister. Both leaders have put management of the $1.5
trillion economy at the center of their campaigns, amid slowing
growth as a China-led boom in mining investment wanes. Rudd is
pressuring Abbott to release details of the coalition’s policy
costs before the election.  A re-elected Labor government would pass a law to allow the
creation of a high-speed rail network down Australia’s eastern
seaboard, stretching from  Melbourne  to Brisbane and including
Sydney and Canberra, Rudd told reporters in Sydney today. The
first stage of the plan, to be completed by 2035, would allow
commuters to travel from Melbourne to Sydney in three hours at
speeds of 350 kilometers (217 miles) an hour, he said.  The project will support employment beyond the China-led
resources boom, Rudd said. While the government didn’t provide
costings for the plan, it intends to allocate A$52 million to an
authority that will start to implement it.  ‘Believable Surplus’  Among Abbott’s promises yesterday were a pledge to have the
budget on track for a “believable surplus” by the end of the
coalition’s first term and expand it to 1 percent of GDP in 10
years.  The Labor government under Gillard backtracked on its
pledge to return the budget to surplus, as the Australian
dollar’s longest stretch above parity with the  U.S. dollar  since
it was freely floated in 1983 slashed company tax receipts.  The government had an underlying  budget surplus  of A$17.2
billion in the year ended June 30, 2007, before Labor came to
power. That swung to a A$27.1 billion  deficit  two years later as
the government introduced tax cuts and cash payments to shield
the economy from the financial crisis.  Labor is on course to return the budget to surplus in the
12 months ending June 30, 2017, Treasurer  Chris Bowen  said on
Aug. 3. Treasury has projected a surplus in that year of A$4.2
billion.  Resource Taxes  Abbott also pledged to have legislation in Parliament
within his first 100 days in office to abolish Labor’s mining
and carbon taxes.  The Labor government’s levy on  iron ore  and coal mining
profits is forecast to raise A$4.4 billion in the four years to
June 30, 2017, according to the Treasury outlook published Aug.
13. The carbon pricing mechanism is expected to raise A$16.1
billion, the document shows.  Queensland state Premier  Campbell Newman , Deputy Opposition
Leader Julie Bishop and Nationals leader Warren Truss spoke
before Abbott, each criticizing Kevin Rudd.  “You see the trouble with Kevin is, he’s a fake, all these
multiple personalities,” Bishop said in her speech. “He
reminds me of the Incredible Hulk. You know, masquerading as the
mild-mannered everyman but instead he’s actually suppressing a
monster inside.”  Netball Dad  Following an introduction by two of his three daughters,
who described his cringe-worthy moments as a netball dad,
screaming “Run Forrest Run” from the sidelines of their games,
Abbott strode onto the stage after a hug from former Liberal
Prime Minister  John Howard .  “I am so proud of my girls, I am proud of my family that
has given me so much,” he began his speech. “This election is
about making a great country even better; and that starts with
changing the worst government in our history.”  Abbott reiterated a pledge to remove a A$1.8 billion tax on
company cars, reduce the company tax rate by 1.5 percentage
points to 28.5 percent and cut red tape by A$1 billion a year.
He also promised to be an “infrastructure prime minister who
puts bulldozers on the ground and cranes into our skies” and
forecast a new business plan for the national broadband network
that will cost A$60 billion less than Labor’s network.  Abbott on Aug. 23 pledged A$420 million over the budget’s
forward estimates toward installing a regional deterrence
framework in a bid to halt a surge of asylum seekers arriving in
Australia by boat. He’s also proposing a paid parental leave
system that’s expected to cost A$5.5 billion a year.  Savage Cuts  “It’s mathematically impossible to achieve all of those
objectives unless there is a generation of deep and savage
cuts,” Attorney General Mark Dreyfus, who’s also Rudd’s
campaign spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mailed transcript of
a media briefing following Abbott’s speech. Labor officially
begins its campaign on Sept. 1.  “The coalition’s soft spot is its costings: they’re going
to have to put real meat on the bones of their campaign
promises,” Flinders University’s Manning said. “Labor will be
using a scare campaign to try to convince voters that Abbott
will cut services after coming to power.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  