-- Abe’s Nuclear Imperative Starts at Fukushima
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-25T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/abe-s-nuclear-imperative-starts-at-fukushima.html
Like the hundreds of tons of
radioactive water now streaming daily into the  Pacific Ocean  off
the Japanese coast, the bad news from  Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s (9501) 
stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant just keeps coming. Stanching
the flow and getting the Fukushima cleanup on track are critical
not only to health and safety, but also to the future of nuclear
energy in Japan and elsewhere, and to the credibility of Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s government.  The latest scare came last week, with the announcement that
300 tons of highly contaminated water had leaked from one of
more than 1,000  storage tanks  near the shoreline. On Aug. 21,
Japan’s Nuclear Regulation Authority raised its estimation of
the seriousness of the incident from a 1 to a 3 on the
International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale (the 1986
Chernobyl disaster and original 2011 meltdown of three reactors
at Fukushima both ranked at 7, the scale’s highest level). With
more than 300,000 tons of contaminated water already in storage,
and 400 tons of groundwater being added every day, the authority
sees the threat of more leaky tanks as its biggest concern.  Unfortunately, Tepco’s record in disclosing, let alone
handling, such contamination inspires mistrust, not confidence.
After denying for months that radioactive groundwater was
leaking into the ocean, for instance, it switched gears and
fessed up the day after Abe’s pro-nuclear  Liberal Democratic
Party  cemented its legislative majority in upper house
elections.  Such obfuscations have come on top of widely reported
incidents -- a mysterious cloud of steam rising from one of the
crippled reactors, a 29-hour power  failure  to a cooling pool --
that suggest Tepco can’t handle the decommissioning and cleanup.
Last week, company executives broke from form and wisely
admitted that they will need outside help to solve the complex
problem of groundwater runoff flowing from the mountains to the
sea under the foundations of the plant.  On Aug. 7, Abe opened the door to that help when he  pledged 
that “we will not leave this to Tepco, but put together a
government strategy.” Given Tepco’s  hapless record , this would
be an auspicious moment to put that strategy in place and
increase government control over the company. Despite providing
1 trillion yen ($12.5 billion) and obtaining 50.1 percent of
Tepco voting rights in 2012, the government has left company
decisions to management. In taking on Tepco’s liabilities, it
has treated the company as “too big to fail,” creating a  moral
hazard  for other nuclear operators. As disruptive and expensive
as it may be, nationalization may be the only way to ensure a
thorough cleanup, one that doesn’t put the return to
profitability ahead of public safety.  In the meantime,  Japan  needs to aggressively solicit
outside expertise -- the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, for
instance, has yet to receive a formal request for assistance --
to solve Fukushima’s groundwater problem. And Japan’s nuclear
power authority would do well to devote less of its limited
resources to recertifying reactors for restarts and more to
monitoring the Fukushima cleanup and ensuring that the public is
kept reliably informed.  Restarting Japan’s reactors is critical to Abe’s plans to
reinvigorate Japan’s economy, which has been saddled with higher
energy import costs since they were taken offline. Yet even
Japan’s most ardent nuclear proponents must recognize that
failure to decisively address the Fukushima mess is making that
prospect more remote. And Fukushima’s corrosive impact on
support for nuclear energy, a climate-friendly part of the
energy mix, extends beyond Japan’s shores to some of its would-be nuclear customers.  In short, if Abe wants to redeem Japan’s nuclear industry,
jump-start its  economy , and perhaps increase the odds of
removing the  radioactive pall over Tokyo’s bid  to land the 2020
Olympics, he needs to start at  ground zero  and work up from
there.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 