-- Scott Rallies to Win First PGA Tour Playoff Event by One Stroke
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/adam-scott-wins-pga-tour-s-first-playoff-event-by-one-stroke.html
Adam Scott  said he received “a bit
of a gift” after erasing a six-shot final-round deficit and
holding on for a one-stroke win at golf’s Barclays, the first of
the U.S.  PGA Tour ’s four playoff events.  The Masters champion shot a 5-under-par 66 during
yesterday’s final round at Liberty National Golf Club in Jersey
City,  New Jersey , and finished with a four-round total of 11-under 273.  Tiger Woods , Graham DeLaet of  Canada , Gary Woodland
and U.S. Open winner  Justin Rose  of England tied for second at
10 under, with Woods, Woodland and Rose all missing putts with a
chance to force a tie on the last hole.  Scott started his final round about 90 minutes before the
leaders teed off and his rally was the largest in tournament
history, surpassing five-stroke comebacks by Bobby Nichols in
1973,  Vijay Singh  in 1993 and  Matt Kuchar  in 2010.  “I played a good round of golf but I didn’t think it was
good enough,” said the 33-year-old Scott, who made the last of
his five final-round birdies with a 15-foot putt at the 16th
hole. “The closing holes threw up a challenge on these guys and
luck was definitely on my side.”  Woods, who led the FedEx Cup playoff  standings  entering the
tournament, rebounded from three bogeys in a six-hole stretch
with birdies on the 16th and 17th holes to get within one of
Scott. Woods’s second shot bounced over the green at the 18th
hole, which has views of the  New York  City skyline and the
Statue of Liberty, and his 25-foot (7.6 meter) birdie putt from
a collection area stopped about an inch short of the cup.  Perfect Spot  “I had a chance,” said Woods, who was bothered by
occasional back spasms after the 12th hole. “I hit a good putt
and thought I made it. I was in a perfect spot, unfortunately
just couldn’t finish off the rest of the way.”  Woodland missed a 9 1/2-foot birdie putt with a chance to
tie for the lead at the 17th hole and then had a 10-foot birdie
try trickle left of the cup at the 18th. Woodland shot a 73
yesterday after entering the final round tied for the lead with
Kuchar, who closed with a 78.  Rose had a chance to take the lead at the 18th hole when he
sent his 30-foot uphill birdie try about five feet past the
hole. He then dropped out of a share for the lead when he missed
the par attempt coming back.  “I knew where I stood in the tournament,” Rose said. “I
felt like it was a putt I could make. I was surprised to see it
go five feet by. It’s a disappointing way to finish.”  Kevin Chappell, who was playing alongside Woods, had been
13-under par before shooting 7 over for the final eight holes,
including double-bogeys on the 11th and 17th holes. He closed
with a 76 to tie for 15th place at 6-under par.  Multiple Winner  Scott received $1.44 million for his 10th career PGA Tour
title and joined Woods (5), Kuchar (2),  Brandt Snedeker  (2) and
 Phil Mickelson  (2) as multiple winners on the tour this year.  “I was shocked that that was good enough to hold up,”
Scott said. “When the pressure is on you to close out, the
holes become much harder and shots are far more crucial.”  Phil Mickelson, the British Open champion, also made a
final-round push, shooting a 65 to finish in a tie for sixth
with  Jim Furyk  and D.A. Points at 9-under par. Mickelson was 10
under and had run off seven birdies in a 10-hole span before
just missing birdie putts at the 16th and 17th holes. He then
made his lone bogey of the round at the par-4 18th.  The top 125 players in the season-long FedEx Cup point
standings qualified for the Barclays.  The top 100 players on the list now qualify for the
Deutsche Bank Championship at TPC Boston from Aug. 30 to Sept.
2. Camilo Villegas shot scores of 73, 72 and 76 after his first-round 65, yet his 54th-place finish was good enough to lift him
into the field as the final qualifier for this week’s second
playoff event.  Back Spasm  Woods said yesterday he didn’t know if he’d play in the
Deutsche Bank Championship. Woods dropped to his knees in pain
from a back spasm after hooking his second shot on the par-5
13th hole into a nearby stream. He made bogey on the hole and
followed with another two holes later before making back-to-back
birdies at the 16th and 17th holes, after which he bent over
gingerly to take the ball out of the cup.  “I’m not feeling my best right now,” Woods said in a
televised interview after the round.  After this week, the top 70 in the standings move on to the
BMW Championship outside  Chicago  from Sept. 12 to 15. The top 30
then compete for the FedEx Cup title and the $10 million bonus
at the Tour Championship in Atlanta from Sept. 19 to 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  Jersey City , New Jersey at   matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  