-- Aluminum Premiums in Japan Said to Retreat After U.S. Slump
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-08-26T04:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/aluminum-premiums-in-japan-said-to-retreat-after-slump-in-u-s-.html
Aluminum buyers in  Japan , Asia’s
biggest importer, will probably win their first reduction in
three quarters for fees they pay to producers after premiums in
the U.S. and Europe slumped, three executives said.  Premiums for the three months starting in October are
likely to fall to the lowest level of the year from this
quarter’s $249 to $251 a metric ton over the London Metal
Exchange cash price, said the executives, representing buyers
and sellers. They asked not to be identified because the talks,
which begin this week, are private.  The rates to obtain aluminum tumbled the most in 20 months
in Europe last month and retreated from a record in the U.S. as
lawmakers and regulators scrutinized long waiting times to
withdraw metal from warehouses. The U.S. premium slid to 11
cents a pound from 13 cents in June, according to Laredo, Texas-based researcher  Harbor Intelligence .  “The slump in overseas premiums will probably drag down
Japanese fees next quarter as new regulation is taking a toll on
metals transactions,” said Naohiro Niimura, a partner at
research company Market Risk Advisory in Tokyo. Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s push to end deflation in Japan may give producers
some support in trying to resist cuts, Niimura said.  Lower premiums would curb costs for fabricators including
 Furukawa-Sky Aluminum Corp. (5741) , Japan’s largest mill. Company
spokesman Ryu Sawachi said he couldn’t comment on fees.  Premiums in Japan more than doubled in 2012 and reached an
all-time high $255 in the fourth quarter. They slid to $240 to
$245 in the three months through March 31 this year before
moving back toward the level over the last six months.  LME Prices  Aluminum for delivery in three months closed at $1,893 a
ton on the London Metal Exchange on Aug. 23. It slid to $1,758
on June 27, the lowest level since July 2009, and has lost 8.7
percent this year. The LME is closed for a holiday today.  Aluminum for delivery in December on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange added 0.2 percent to 14,480  yuan  ($2,366) a ton at the
11:30 a.m. local time break.  While Japan’s  GDP (JGDPAGDP)  expanded an annualized 2.6 percent in the
second quarter from 3.8 percent in the first amid monetary
stimulus advocated by Abe, shipments of rolled-aluminum products
by Japanese fabricators fell in the six months through June.  The volume sent to domestic and overseas markets fell 6
percent to 955,997 tons, as demand from the auto industry
weakened and exports to Asia dropped, according to the Japan
Aluminium Association.  Car Sales  The auto industry is the biggest user of rolled-aluminum
products in Japan after the construction and can-manufacturing
sectors. Demand fell as car sales in Japan shrank 13 percent in
the first half because of an end to subsidy payments by the
government to buyers of fuel-efficient models.  “Demand is not strong enough to bolster aluminum premiums
in Japan,” said Niimura at Market Risk Advisory.  U.S. premiums may fall further this year after the LME
proposed rule changes to reduce queues and American regulators
stepped up scrutiny of metals-storage practices, he said.  The LME, which oversees more than 700 warehouses worldwide,
proposed rules July 1 to cut waiting times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in  Tokyo  at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  