-- AMP’s Naeimi Cutting Equities for First Time Since 2011 for Cash
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-08-25T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/amp-s-naeimi-cutting-equities-for-first-time-since-2011-for-cash.html
AMP Capital Investors Ltd.’s Nader Naeimi is reducing equity holdings for the first time since 2011
as he sees the paring of Federal Reserve stimulus driving a 10
percent slump in U.S. stocks by year-end.  Shares have risen too far, too fast as the Fed prepares to
cut the $85 billion in monthly asset purchases that helped the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index reach an all-time high this month,
Naeimi, head of dynamic asset allocation for the unit of
 Australia ’s biggest  asset manager , said by phone last week.
Uncertainty ahead of German elections next month and about who
will replace Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will also drag on
global equities, he said.  “Cash is the safest place right now,” Naeimi said.
“We’re expecting a pullback much bigger than pullbacks we have
experienced so far since 2012.”  The U.S. central bank’s plan to reduce record stimulus is
whipsawing stocks, bonds and commodities. The S&P 500, which has
gained 17 percent this year, is likely to sink at least 10
percent by Dec. 31, said Naeimi, who correctly predicted an 18
percent correction in  Japan ’s  Topix index  that began in May.  AMP’s Dynamic Asset Allocation Fund, which manages money
for institutional clients, has reduced shares in favor of cash,
he said. The allocation changes affect more than A$50 billion
($45 billion) of AMP’s diversified funds, Naeimi said.  The funds now hold less Australian and emerging-market
equities than the benchmarks they track, while owning more
Japanese and European shares, according to Naeimi. He’s neutral
on U.S. stocks and has cut high-yield bond holdings to zero.  Paring Stimulus  The Fed’s first step may be to reduce debt purchases next
month by $10 billion to a $75 billion monthly pace, according to
a Bloomberg survey of analysts conducted Aug. 9-13.  Gold has declined about 17 percent this year. Benchmark 10-year  Treasury yields  touched 2.93 percent on Aug. 22, the
highest level since July 2011, while the S&P 500 has slipped 2.7
percent since reaching a record high on Aug. 2.  “The transition from liquidity-driven strength to
fundamental-driven gains is often marked by increased volatility
and price weakness,” Naeimi said. Shares may advance on good
data once the transition period is over, he said.  The Fed has kept its target for overnight lending between
banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.
Investors see a 61 percent chance policy makers will raise the
so-called federal funds rate to 0.5 percent or more by January
2015, data compiled by Bloomberg from futures show.  On April 14, 2009, Naeimi said the bear market that started
in 2007 for global stocks had ended and forecast the start of a
bull market amid improving economic indicators and company
earnings outlooks. The MSCI World Index of 24 developed markets
advanced 36 percent from then through the end of the year.  Uncertain Markets  Naeimi pared equity investments in early 2011 before the
 European debt crisis  began roiling markets, he said. He started
adding to holdings at the end of that year after investor
sentiments moved to pessimistic extremes and increased his
allocation every time equities slipped until June. This time is
different.  “The risk-return reward is no longer as good as it used to
be,” Naeimi said. “I don’t see much valuation buffer -- it’s
not as cheap as it was a year ago,” he said, citing a declining
gap between bond yields and the earnings yield on stocks, from 4
percent in late 2012 to 1.9 percent now.  The S&P 500 traded at 15.5 times  estimated earnings  on Aug.
2, the highest since April 2010.  ‘Not Ready’  “Markets are not ready for a less-than-favorable
outcome,” Naeimi said, citing uncertainty about the new Fed
chairman and the German elections as potential triggers for
further declines.  President  Barack Obama  said he’ll make a decision “in the
fall” on a replacement for Bernanke, 59, whose term expires on
Jan. 31. During a White House news conference on Aug. 9, Obama
said he was weighing a “range of outstanding candidates” to
lead the central bank, including Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen
and Lawrence Summers, a former Treasury Secretary and a White
House economic adviser.  It’s “dangerous” to assume German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  will win a third term, finance minister Wolfgang
Schaeuble said Aug. 20. Merkel’s coalition is leading in polls
before Europe’s biggest economy holds a vote on Sept. 22.  Among global stocks, the market about which Naeimi is most
bullish is Japan. The Topix has gained 33 percent this year, the
most among developed markets tracked by Bloomberg, as the
nation’s currency weakened about 12 percent amid efforts by the
government and central bank to end decades of deflation.  “I believe Japan will be an outperformer during the
correction, given Japan’s aggressive policy support and the
potential for a weaker yen,” Naeimi said. “Out of any
correction, Japan should fare better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  