-- Man. City Upset by Premier League Newcomer Cardiff; Spurs Win
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-08-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/manchester-city-upset-by-cardiff-in-premier-league-spurs-win.html
Manchester City  was upset 3-2 at
promoted  Cardiff City  in English soccer’s Premier League, while
Tottenham Hotspur beat Swansea 1-0 for its second straight win.  Fraizer Campbell scored twice and Aron Gunnarsson got the
other Cardiff goal yesterday after Edin Dzeko opened the scoring
for Manchester City, which won the title two seasons ago. Alvaro
Negredo got a late goal for the visiting team. It was Cardiff’s
first home game in the top flight for 51 years.  “Fraizer Campbell gave their whole back four problems,”
Cardiff manager Malky Mackay told  Sky Sports . “He is someone I
was delighted to get when we managed to get him in from
Sunderland. I thought it was an incredible bit of business on
our behalf and he hit the ground running.”  All five goals came in the second half. Dzeko struck in the
52nd minute as he slammed in a shot from outside the penalty
area from Sergio Aguero’s flick.  Eight minutes later Gunnarsson tied the scores from close
range after the visitor’s defense failed to clear. Campbell’s
two goals, in the 79th and 87th minutes, both came from corners
after he outwitted his marker,  Pablo Zabaleta .  Negredo’s header made it 3-2 and the Spanish forward missed
a chance to tie it in the seventh minute of added time as he
flicked over from close range.  City manager Manuel Pellegrini lamented his team’s failure
to defend from set-pieces after Campbell’s goals.  “It does not matter who is guilty with the two corners,
conceding from two corners is too much,” he said. “It is too
important an area.”  Soldado Strikes  In London,  Roberto Soldado  scored Tottenham’s winner from
the penalty spot for the second straight league game. Spurs were
again without  Gareth Bale , linked with a move to Real Madrid
that may be announced as soon as tomorrow, the U.K.’s Daily
Telegraph reported.  It was Soldado’s fourth goal in three games. He converted
in the 58th minute at White Hart Lane after Jonjo Shelvey was
ruled to have fouled Andros Townsend.  “He is really adding to our game because he brings that
life and spark,” Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas said of
Soldado, who was signed for 26 million pounds ($40.5 million)
from Valencia.  Chelsea, Liverpool and Tottenham lead the standings with
six points after winning their first two match. Defending
champion  Manchester United  hosts Chelsea tonight.  Two days ago, Liverpool won 1-0 at  Aston Villa  and Arsenal
had a 3-1 victory at Fulham. Hull defeated Norwich 1-0,
Southampton tied 1-1 with Sunderland and  Stoke City  beat Crystal
Palace 2-1. The Everton-West Brom and Newcastle-West Ham matches
were scoreless.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  