-- Angolan Bank Says Exchange Law Step Toward Kwanza Trade
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   M a n u e l   S o q u e
-- 2013-08-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/angolan-bank-says-exchange-law-step-toward-kwanza-trade.html
A foreign exchange law in  Angola  has
halved the amount of dollars auctioned by the central bank since
June as the country considers letting its currency trade on
international markets, a central bank official said.  The Banco de Nacional de Angola said the amount sold at
auctions has fallen to $200 million a week from $400 million in
June, before  oil companies  were required to pay some suppliers
in kwanzas, the local currency, Antonio Andre Lopes, a vice-governor of the bank, said in an Aug. 21 interview in his
offices in Luanda, the capital. The kwanza traded at 95.7780 per
dollar on Aug. 23.  Angola,  Africa ’s second-biggest oil producer after  Nigeria ,
passed a law last year that may funnel $25 billion annually
through the $116 billion economy by requiring foreign-owned oil
companies including  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  to pay
taxes in Kwanza’s from May this year and domestic suppliers in
the currency from July 1. The measure has boosted the supply of
kwanzas in Angola’s market, Lopes said.  “There’s a high supply of foreign currency with the oil
companies obligated to pay in kwanzas after exchanging dollars
at the banks,” Lopes said. “We’re in a process of de-dollarization of the economy.”  While a date has yet to be selected, the law is a step
toward allowing free trade in the kwanza, the central bank
official said.  “There is some pressure to make the kwanza a traded
currency,” he said. “We need to think about the impact this
will have on stability.”  Not Stable  The kwanza is being used informally in neighboring
Democratic Republic of Congo and Zambia, generating some demand
for international trading, Lopes said.  The value of the kwanza, backed by the oil law, will lead
to a “fully tradeable” currency as soon as central bank
Governor Jose de Lima Massano “sees the market is ready and the
kwanza is respected,” Pedro Coelho, Chief Executive Officer of
the Angolan unit of  South Africa ’s  Standard Bank Group (SBK)  said in
an Aug. 20 interview in Luanda.  “Things are not stabilized,” Joao Fonseca, executive
director of Banco Angolano de Investimentos SA, said by e-mail
on Aug. 23. “Banks now have excess of dollars due to the new
phase of the foreign exchange oil law.”  Exercising monetary policy by selling Treasury Bills,
regulating the supply of foreign currency in the market and
adjusting reserve ratios at banks has helped stabilize the
 exchange rate , Lopes said. The kwanza is little changed against 
the dollar this year.  Declining Inflation  The bank has kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 10 percent
since January, while commercial bank rates are about 5-6 percent
higher, Lopes said.  “The tendency will be for both to decrease,” he said,
declining to be more specific.  The inflation rate has declined to 9 percent, meeting the
government’s target and may fall to 7 percent in the next three
to four years, he said.  Angola pumped 1.76 million barrels of oil a day in July
almost entirely from fields offshore the southwest African
country. It’s recovering from a 27-year civil war that ended in
2002.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Soque in Luanda at 
 msoque@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  