-- Mark Sanchez Hurt in Jets’ NFL 24-21 Overtime Win Against Giants
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-08-25T04:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/mark-sanchez-hurt-in-jets-nfl-24-21-overtime-win-against-giants.html
New York  Jets quarterback  Mark Sanchez  injured his shoulder as he directed a second-string
offense in the New York Jets 24-21 overtime win against the  New
York Giants  two weeks before the National Football League season
opener.  Billy Cundiff ’s 32-yard field goal with eight minutes, four
seconds left in overtime gave the Jets (2-1) the preseason win.  Sanchez, who completed five of six passing attempts for 72
yards, was scheduled to undergo an MRI this morning after
getting hit in the right shoulder by Marvin Austin with just
over five minutes left in the game at MetLife Stadium in East
Rutherford,  New Jersey .  “If it wasn’t important, I wouldn’t have put Mark in,”
coach  Rex Ryan  said during a televised news conference. “Mark
was throwing the ball well. Hopefully the severity of the
injuries aren’t too serious.”  Sanchez and rookie Geno Smith have been competing for the
starting quarterback position for the Jets.  Smith played into the fourth quarter, completing 16 of 30
passes for 199 yards and one touchdown and three interceptions.  Appropriate Time  Ryan became irritated with reporters as they pressed him
about the decision to play Sanchez and when he would name the
starting quarterback.  “We will make the announcement of the starting quarterback
when we think it’s the appropriate time,” Ryan said.  Matt Simms was brought in after Sanchez’s injury and
completed a 22-yard touchdown pass to Ryan Spadola with two
minutes, two seconds left in the game. He also set up Cundiff’s
game-winning field goal in overtime. Simms completed six of 10
passing attempts for 120 yards.  David Wilson  gave the Giants (1-2) a 7-0 lead on an 84-yard
scoring run in the first quarter, while Josh Brown added four
field goals of 40, 33, 50 and 40 yards.  “What happened tonight was we fought like heck throughout
the entire game on defense and on special teams,” Giants coach
 Tom Coughlin  said. “We really didn’t have anything to help us
on the offensive side of the ball.”  Eli Manning completed eight of 20 passing attempts for 83
yards and Curtis Painter threw 13 passes for 140 yards.  “The one thing that’s very disappointing to me is where we
are offensively and the fact that we, in all three areas, were
obviously not all doing what we need to do in order to give
ourselves a chance to win,” Coughlin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  