-- England Wins Ashes Series 3-0 as Bad Light Ends Run-Chase Finale
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-26T02:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/australia-sets-england-target-of-227-in-last-ashes-cricket-test.html
England  was denied the chance to
secure its first 4-0 victory in an Ashes cricket series as bad
light ensured the final Test against  Australia  ended in a draw.  Set a target of 227 off 44 overs for the victory at the
Oval in London, the home team reached 206-5 with 24 balls left
when the umpires called a halt to play at 7:36 p.m. last night.
Jeers rang out from frustrated spectators, who then gathered to
watch England lift the trophy after completing a 3-0 series win.  “It has been an intense time, but also a very proud time
for me,” England captain  Alastair Cook  told reporters. “The
character we have showed throughout the series, when runs needed
to be scored they were scored and when wickets needed to be
taken they have been taken. That is the hallmark of a good side.
We are proving to be incredibly tough to beat.”  The victory margin was England’s biggest in the Ashes since
a 5-1 win in 1978-79 and its best at home since a 3-0 triumph in
1977, which was the last time Australia failed to win a single
match against its oldest international rival. The teams play
another best-of-five contest beginning Nov. 21 in Brisbane.  The result also lifted England above  India  into second
place in the  International Cricket Council ’s Test rankings
behind  South Africa . Australia, winless in its past nine elite
five-day matches, dropped below  Pakistan  into fifth place.  Touring captain  Michael Clarke  said the 3-0 scoreline
didn’t reflect the gap between the teams over the five matches.  “Maybe I’m biased but I think we would have won in
Manchester if it didn’t rain; we got close in Durham,” Clarke
said. “There were some real positives to come out of the last
three Test matches and I’m really pleased with the boys. Once we
get a win up we’ll run with that momentum.”  Daring Declaration  Clarke declared Australia’s second innings on 111-6 at the
tea break yesterday, setting up the chance of a result in match
that lost the entire fourth day to rain. England was earlier
dismissed for 377 to trail by 115 runs on the first innings.  A partnership of 64 between Cook (34) and Jonathan Trott
put England on course in its run chase before  Kevin Pietersen 
smashed 62 off 55 balls.  After Pietersen and Trott (59) were dismissed in
consecutive overs,  Chris Woakes  and  Ian Bell  maintained the
scoring rate. Bell’s run out on 17 allowed the umpires to
consult their light meters and they decided to end the match.  Under ICC regulations, the umpires were obliged to take the
players off once the light had faded to the same level it was
when they had stopped play on day two last week.  “The officials sometimes have to take emotion out of the
game and do their job and be consistently fair to both sides,”
Cook said. “It’s disappointing to be sitting here when we felt
we could have taken those runs off the last four overs, but I
understand the decision and why it happened.”  Bell Tolls  Bell, named the man of the series for scoring 562 runs
including three centuries, said the victory was “right up
there” with England’s Ashes triumphs in 2005, 2009 and 2010-11.  “Any time you win Ashes, it ranks at the top but this is
always going to be number one having scored three hundreds,”
Bell added. “I am a more senior player now and I am
contributing more. It’s been a tough battle and we’re all
looking forward to a break from Test cricket for a while.”  The teams are scheduled to play two Twenty20 internationals
on Aug. 29 and 31 before contesting a five-match one-day series
starting Sept. 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  