-- Bank Profits to Fall Below 5-Year Low on Rupee: Corporate India
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-08-26T12:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/bank-profits-to-fall-below-5-year-low-on-rupee-corporate-india.html
Indian banks’  profitability , already
at the lowest since 2009, is poised to decline further after
measures to stem the rupee’s record slump drove up borrowing
costs and exacerbated rising bad loans and slowing loan growth.  Return on equity, which measures profit generated with
shareholders’ funds, may fall below 10 percent in the year to
March for banks from last year’s 12.8 percent, said Vibha Batra,
co-head of financial-sector ratings in  New Delhi  at a unit of
Moody’s Investors Service. Stressed assets are approaching
levels last seen in 2002, she said on Aug. 21.  India ’s banking index, which tracks lenders including  State
Bank of India , has lost 19 percent since July 15 following
liquidity tightening measures from the central bank, which
caused interbank rates to surge to a 17-month high last week.
Those steps may drive up the risk of defaults in an economy that
expanded last year at the weakest pace in a decade.  “With the rise in  interest rates , the cash crunch and
forex volatility, the evolving operating environment for banks
in India is worrying,” Batra said. “With the operating
environment becoming tougher, stressed assets in the banking
system are rising.”  Interbank funding costs jumped after the  Reserve Bank  of
India raised two interest rates and capped cash injections into
the banking system to stem the rupee’s 19 percent slide against
the dollar since the end of April.  Developing Nations  The rupee’s slump is part of a sell-off in emerging-market
assets as growth in the biggest developing nations slow and
speculation increases the U.S. will start tapering its stimulus
program. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of stocks slumped 2.7
percent last week, the most in two months, while a gauge of a
currencies in  Brazil ,  Russia , India,  China  and  South Africa 
touched its lowest level versus the dollar since June 2010.  The  rate  at which Indian banks lend to each other for three
months climbed to 11.2 percent on Aug. 23, the highest level
since March 2012, compared with 8.52 percent at the end of June,
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. data show.  The RBI’s attempt to check the rupee’s slide threatens to
curtail lending that has already slowed in an  economy  that
expanded 5 percent in the year ended March 31.  Loan growth  at
Indian lenders fell to 13.7 percent in the 12 months to June 14,
the lowest since December 2009, before rising to 16.6 percent as
of Aug. 9, central bank data show.  “We reduced our exposure to Indian banks in recent
months,” David Gaud, a Hong Kong-based senior portfolio manager
at the asset management unit of Edmond de Rothschild Group,
which oversees more than $157 billion, said by phone on Aug. 21.
“Nonperforming assets will rise and loan growth will be slower.
There will be further pressure on return on equity.”  State Bank  HDFC Bank Ltd. had an ROE of 20.6 percent, the most among
India’s 10 largest banks, while state-run  IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  had the
lowest, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  State Bank  of
India, the nation’s largest by assets, had an ROE of 13.59
percent at the end of March, according to an e-mail from the
lender’s public relations department.  IDBI’s ROE had fallen to 6.3 percent as of June 30 from
10.1 percent a year earlier due to higher provisioning for
soured debt and restructured assets, Chief Financial Officer
Pothukuchi Sitaram wrote in an Aug. 23 e-mail.  The S&P BSE Bankex Index, a gauge for 13 lenders, gained
0.2 percent in Mumbai today. HDFC Bank rose 0.6 percent and
State  Bank of India  fell 0.1 percent. IDBI advanced 0.6 percent.  Stressed Assets  Bad loans in the banking system rose to 3.92 percent of
total lending as of June 30, the highest in at least five years,
from 3.4 percent at the end of March, according to central bank
data.  The stressed-asset ratio, which measures bad loans and
restructured assets as a percentage of loans, was at 10.02
percent at the end of June, central bank data show. The measure
is approaching 10.4 percent, a level last seen in 2002, said
Batra, who works at rating company  ICRA Ltd. (ICRA)   To ease the cash crunch, the RBI will buy 80 billion rupees
($1.25 billion) of long-dated government debt, the authority
said after markets closed on Aug. 20, a day after India’s 10-year bond yield reached the highest level since 2001.  “The central bank may take more measures,” Alex Mathews,
head of research at Geojit BNP Financial Services Ltd. said by
phone on Aug. 22. “Easing the cost of funds can help in
reviving the economy and improve the profitability of banks.”  Overseas Investors  Mathews, who doesn’t have official ratings on India’s
lenders, is recommending his clients to gradually accumulate
 ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , Axis Bank Ltd., Yes Bank Ltd. and HDFC Bank as
their share prices drop.  The Bankex Index surged 6 percent at the open on Aug. 21
before paring to close 0.5 percent higher as foreign investors
sold a net $118 million of Indian equities, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That was the fourth straight day of
sales, the data show. The rupee has fallen 1.4 percent since the
RBI’s action and was recently at 64.10 per dollar.  “The recent measures by the central bank to ease liquidity
are not changing the operating environment,” Dolly Parmar,
Mumbai-based banking analyst at IFCI Financial Services Ltd.
said by phone on Aug. 23. “The concerns will remain until the
rupee stabilizes and the economy grows at a faster rate.”  Parmar has buy ratings on HDFC Bank and ICICI, and
recommends investors sell  Union Bank of India  and Bank of India.  Worst Performers  Union Bank and  Canara Bank (CBK) , which are both state
controlled, have fallen more than 50 percent this year. The two
are the Bankex’s  worst performers  in that period amid concern
growth in bad loans at government banks will outpace private
sector lenders, Geojit’s Mathews said.  The gross bad-loan ratio at India’s state-run banks was 3.8
percent as of March 31, compared with 1.91 percent at private
sector lenders, central bank data show.  Investors are demanding a higher premium to hold the debt
of Indian banks. The yield on  State Bank of India (SBIN) ’s 4.5 percent
euro debt due in September 2015 rose 79 basis points this month
to 3.59 percent, heading for the biggest increase since
September 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  India may delay injecting capital into government banks
including IDBI and Dena Bank because of the slump in their stock
prices, Rajiv Takru, the finance ministry’s banking secretary,
said in an Aug. 19 interview. The government, which usually puts
capital into lenders by buying their shares, doesn’t want to
lose money as prices slide, Takru said.  Lower Ratings  Moody’s downgraded the financial strength ratings of three
state-run lenders --  Bank of Baroda , Canara Bank and Punjab
National Bank -- to negative from stable on Aug. 16, reflecting
the “challenges” of the current economic environment that had
been exacerbated by the weakening rupee. Shares of the three
banks have slumped at least 1.8 percent since then.  The RBI measures to support the currency have not reversed
the depreciation, implying  interest rates  may remain elevated,
Moody’s said in a statement. State-controlled lenders will have
more difficulty responding to slower economic growth and
declining margins, it said.  “Until the rupee volatility subsides, banks’ profitability
will keep falling,” IFCI’s Parmar said. “Banks will feel more
pain in coming months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  