-- Best Banks Barely Cover Capital Cost Europe Study
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-08-26T06:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/best-banks-barely-covering-capital-cost-in-risk-weight-study.html
Scandinavia’s biggest banks , which
rank highest in a Bain & Co. a study comparing returns on risk-weighted assets, are still hardly making enough money to cover
the cost of holding capital.  Nordic banks had an average return on risk-weighted assets
of 1.9 percent in 2012, the highest ratio in western Europe,
according to Bain’s calculations. For European banks, the
average was 0.5 percent last year and zero in 2008, the report
showed.  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , both based in
 Stockholm , had the highest returns among western Europe’s
biggest banks, at 4 percent and 3.6 percent, respectively.  “One tends to say that the Nordic banks are doing so great
right now, because they are so much better than Europe,” Lars
Jacob Boe, a partner at Bain’s Oslo office, said in a telephone
interview on Aug. 21. “But if you look at 1.9 percent on risk-weighted assets, it’s still just barely making cost-of-capital,
and all the banks have ambitions to earn cost-of-capital-plus.”  Though the study is yet another example of Swedish banks
outperforming their peers, it also suggests the rest of  Europe ’s
financial industry is poised to catch up, according to Boe. The
44-member  Bloomberg index of European banks  has gained 12
percent this year, after soaring 23 percent in 2012, signaling
investors are hoping for improving returns as the euro area
surfaces from its debt crisis.  ‘Value Destruction’  “It’s very difficult to see European banks continuing to
have returns significantly below cost of equity over time,” Boe
said. “These returns represent value destruction and it would
be unprecedented if this is allowed to continue over a long
period.”  Europe’s biggest banks have stepped up efforts to shrink
risk-weighted assets, improving their chances of boosting
returns. Deutsche Bank AG, continental Europe’s biggest bank,
said in July it plans to reduce its balance sheet by 250 billion
euros ($334 billion).  France ’s three largest banks --  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , Societe
General SA and Credit Agricole SA -- last year cut risk-weighted
assets by a combined 128 billion euros and shed thousands of
investment-banking jobs to comply with stricter international
capital and liquidity requirements.  “It represents a big, big challenge to fix the European
banking system,” Boe said. “There is a lot of restructuring
work ahead, but fundamentally you must believe that it will
happen.”  Riskiest Assets  Banks in  Sweden  have done better than their European rivals
because they’ve already shed the riskiest assets from their
balance sheets, Boe said. The lenders, which have been working
toward a deadline this year to meet a 15 percent risk-weight
requirement on their mortgage assets -- as much as three times
the level they were using previously -- have put behind them
property bubbles that ripped through the Baltics in 2009.  The rapid economic adjustment in Latvia, Lithuania and
 Estonia  helped Swedbank and  SEB AB (SEBA)  contain writedowns stemming
from those operations by 2010. The Nordic banking crisis of the
1990s was also a “valuable lesson” for the region’s financial
industry and helped put in place a regulatory framework that
left Scandinavia better prepared for the market shocks that hit
five years ago, Boe said.  “They built up robust risk management and credit processes
that they quickly activated as the global financial crisis took
hold in 2008 and after,” he said.  Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman said today Swedish
lenders may face even tougher  capital requirements  as he
unveiled a raft of proposals designed to counter bank industry
risk.  Basel Floor  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , Handelsbanken, Swedbank and SEB must all
hold at least 10 percent capital of risk-weighted assets from
this year, with the minimum rising to 12 percent in two years.
All four already exceed the 2015 requirements. The  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  sets a 7 percent floor due to
become effective by 2019.  Nordea, Scandinavia’s biggest bank and Europe’s No. 10 by
market value, topped the ranking of Europe’s 10 largest banks
with a return on risk-weighted assets of 1.9 percent. Swiss
banks, including UBS AG and Credit Suisse AG, had an average
return of only 0.1 percent while German lenders’ average
return was 0.7 percent. BNP Paribas SA and HSBC Holdings Plc had
positive returns of 1.6 percent and 1.8 percent, respectively.  Return on risk-weighted assets, or RoRWA, is one of the
best metrics to measure a bank’s health, according to the Bain
report. Its focus on the balance sheet helps it capture the
interplay between the economy, capital adequacy and asset
quality, Bain argues.  Aggressive Growth  Using RoRWA, the assumption is that “European banks will
probably increase even faster and more than the Nordic banks,
because the Nordic banks are already at the cost of equity,”
Boe said. “Relatively speaking, I believe that return on equity
is going to increase more in Europe in the next five to 10 years
than in the Nordics. However, one must remember that Europe
starts from a very low base.”  Meanwhile the Nordic region has yet to deal with record
private debt burdens and inflated  house prices , Boe said.  “It has been a market almost without losses for the banks
in the past 10 years, but banks have grown aggressively in this
market to capture customers,” he said. “There is risk that
there is a real estate bubble in the making. Interest rate
increases of just a few percentage points could trigger a
reversal of the trend with increasing real estate prices, and
lead to bank losses and this could potentially also be an issue
in Sweden, so the mortgage market is something to watch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  