-- BHP to Pursue Potash Venture on Strong Return Expectation
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-08-25T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/bhp-to-pursue-canada-potash-venture-on-strong-return-expectation.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest miner, will proceed with its plans for a Canadian potash
project that has been called “misguided” by its biggest
shareholder, driven by the prospect of strong investor returns.  “We are continuing on this investment because we strongly
believe, and we’ve talked a lot about it with the board, this is
going to offer very high returns for shareholders in the decades
to come,” Chief Executive Officer Andrew Mackenzie said in an
interview yesterday on the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s
‘Inside Business’ program, according to an e-mailed transcript.
“We have the best undeveloped green field mine on offer to the
world and what we are doing, we will be prepared to respond very
quickly to the market when it’s needed.”  Russia’s OAO Uralkali, the largest potash producer, in July
quit a marketing venture with Belarus’s state producer that
controlled about 43 percent of global exports and kept limits on
production, and signaled prices may fall by as much as a
quarter. BHP said Aug. 20 that its projections for the project
assume a shift away from the current market dynamic.  Melbourne-based BHP last week said it’s seeking partners
for the Jansen project after approving spending of $2.6 billion.
The company has been approached and has approached possible
purchasers of a stake in the project, Mackenzie said then.
Jansen may cost $16 billion to build, Citigroup Inc. said last
month.  ‘Add Value’  “I’m looking for a partner that will add value,”
Mackenzie said in a separate interview with the Australian
Financial Review newspaper, aired on the Nine Network yesterday.
The potential partners are in “a wider range than just some of
our mining peers that would be interested in a project like
this.”  BHP  shares  have slipped 3.9 percent this year, compared
with a 10.2 percent gain in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Blackrock’s  Evy Hambro , who manages the $7 billion World
Mining Fund, said Aug. 7 that BHP’s plan for its Canadian potash
project Jansen doesn’t make sense after Uralkali’s decision,
given the expectation for lower prices.  Hambro “said what he has always said to me, which is that
he can see the value of that in the long term, as long as we
don’t spend too much on it right now,” Mackenzie said in
yesterday’s interview. “We will take our time about pushing the
button of the development of a major mine that will absolutely
reflect our ability to afford it but more importantly, the
ability to earn strong returns for our shareholders.”  Potash is a fertilizer ingredient that strengthens plant
roots and improves their resistance to drought.  Shelved Projects  Andrew Mackenzie, 56, succeeded Marius Kloppers as CEO of
BHP in May. In August last year Kloppers put major project
approvals, including Jansen, on hold amid lower prices and
waning demand for raw materials. Projects that remain shelved
include the Olympic Dam iron-ore port expansion in South
Australia and the outer harbor iron ore project in Western
Australia.  BHP is still optimistic about growth in iron-ore as Chinese
steel production continues to expand.  “They have a lot of additional steel that they need to
build into their economy,” Mackenzie said in the interview with
the Financial Review. “To get to U.S. levels, they’d have to
effectively add two more times the amount of steel they’ve got
currently in the economy. That’s going to take time, so we can
look to a good future for the growth in iron ore to feed that
steel demand.”  ‘High Returns’  The company last week said second-half  profit  fell 6.9
percent to $6.7 billion as slowing emerging market growth sapped
demand for raw materials and dragged prices lower. BHP cut
capital spending this fiscal year as investors including
Blackrock pressure mining companies to defer expansions and
acquisitions.  “We chose potash because in the medium to long term it
offered the kind of competitive high returns that we would
expect to deliver to our investors,” Mackenzie said yesterday.
“For the projects that we didn’t do, they haven’t gone
forever,” he said, adding the company will monitor
technological advancements and global demand for iron ore before
making a decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  