-- Consumer Spending Probably Climbed in July: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-08-25T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/consumer-spending-probably-climbed-in-july-u-s-economy-preview.html
Consumer spending  probably rose for
a third consecutive month in July as improvements in the housing
and labor markets helped underpin the biggest part of the
economy, economists said before a report this week.  Purchases of goods and services increased 0.3 percent last
month after a 0.5 percent advance in June, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 59 economists before
Commerce Department figures on Aug. 30. Another report may show
a pickup in orders for  big-ticket  items other than
transportation equipment.  Rising home sales and prices this year, along with more
jobs, are spurring receipts at companies such as  Home Depot Inc. (HD) 
and  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  as demand for appliances and home-improvement
merchandise improves. Consumer  spending (GDPCTOT%) , which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy, will help sustain an expansion
awaiting pickups in manufacturing and global markets.  “We’re seeing a little more weight from the consumer and
the housing sector,” said  Michael Brown , an economist for  Wells
Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . At the same
time, “we’re still in a very uncertain global economic
environment.”  The Commerce Department’s figures at the end of the week
may also show  personal income  increased 0.2 percent in July
after a 0.3 percent gain a month earlier.  Faster job gains would help drive the wage increases needed
to boost household purchases. Spending in the second quarter
climbed at a 1.8 percent annualized rate after a 2.3 percent
pace in the first three months of the year, Commerce Department
figures showed last month.  Third Quarter  Purchases will rise at a 2.2 percent rate this quarter and
2.4 percent in the final three months of the year, according to
a Bloomberg survey of economists from Aug. 2 to Aug. 6.  Higher home prices, which have boosted household net worth,
are propelling demand for washers, dryers and other expensive
items that Americans were reluctant to buy in the housing
downturn, Lowe’s Chief Executive Officer  Robert Niblock  said
last week.  “Our second-quarter sales performance exceeded our
expectations, due in part to strong demand for appliances and
recovery in our garden department,” Carol B. Tome, chief
financial officer at Atlanta-based Home Depot, said on an Aug.
20 earnings call.  Investors have taken note of the improving outlook. The
Standard & Poor’s GICS Consumer Discretionary Sector Index,
which encompasses companies that tend to be the most sensitive
to swings in the economy including Home Depot, has climbed 7.2
percent since April 30. The  S&P 500 Index  is up 4.1 percent over
the same period.  Home Prices  A pickup in housing demand amid a limited supply is driving
up prices, a report on Aug. 27 is projected to show. The
S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of home prices in 20 cities climbed 12.1
percent in June from the same month last year after a 12.2
percent advance in the 12 months ended May that was the biggest
since March 2006, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  A report from the Commerce Department tomorrow is projected
to show orders for such big-ticket goods, excluding demand for
transportation equipment that is volatile month to month,
increased 0.5 percent in July after a 0.1 percent decline a
month earlier, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Fewer commercial aircraft bookings depressed overall
orders, which economists forecast fell 4 percent last month, the
first decline since March.  GDP Revision  Revised figures from the Commerce Department on Aug. 29 may
show the economy grew at a 2.2 percent annualized rate in the
second quarter, compared with an initial estimate of 1.7
percent. Gross domestic product has increased an average 2.2
percent following the end of the last recession in June 2009.  The GDP estimate is the second of three for the quarter,
with the final release scheduled for September when more
information becomes available.  Rising mortgage rates that are beginning to slow the
rebound in housing may be weighing on consumer sentiment as
well, a pair of reports may show.  The Conference Board’s confidence index on Aug. 27 is
projected to decline for a second month in August. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final sentiment  index , released
on Aug. 30, probably declined this month from a six-year high.  The average rate on a 30-year fixed home loan climbed to a
two-year high of 4.58 percent in the week ended Aug. 22,
according to  Freddie Mac . The benchmark rate for home financing
has climbed from a record-low 3.31 percent in November.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  