-- Dollar Advances With September Taper Seen Intact; Lira Slumps
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-08-26T21:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/dollar-holds-loss-as-traders-watch-economy-for-tapering-clues.html
The dollar gained against the
majority of its 16 most-traded peers as a worse-than-forecast
U.S. report on durable goods failed to damp speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will start cutting bond purchases next month.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index pared an advance after
after Secretary of State  John Kerry  said the president will hold
 Syria ’s government accountable for the “moral obscenity” of
using chemical weapons. The Turkish lira dropped to the weakest
level on record as the central bank provided funds to banks at
its benchmark rate for the first time in six days. The  Mexican
peso  slumped the most among the major currencies on concern Fed
tapering will speed the flow of cash out of emerging economies.  “It was clearly weak data, so the initial market response
was correct,” Dan Dorrow, the head of research at Faros Trading
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.
“But is this really sufficient to change the base case view of
tapering in September? In hindsight, it could explain why the
dollar drifted back because it’s not a smoking gun towards no
tapering.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index gained 0.1 percent to
1,027.53 at 5 p.m. in New York. It advanced to 1,031.37 on Aug.
22, the highest since Aug. 2.  The dollar fell 0.2 percent to 98.51 yen after tumbling as
much as 0.6 percent earlier. The U.S. currency advanced 0.1
percent to $1.3368 per euro after depreciating 0.4 percent last
week. The euro fell 0.3 percent to 131.69 yen.  Financial markets were closed in  London  due to a public
holiday.  Kerry, Syria  The dollar extended losses against the yen after Kerry told
reporters in  Washington  President  Barack Obama  “believes there
must be accountability for those who would use the world’s most
heinous weapons against the world’s most vulnerable people.”  Obama hasn’t decided whether the U.S. will take military
action in Syria, according to an administration official who
asked for anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.  “Kerry’s statement says the Obama administration is
considering laying the groundwork for certain military action --
certainly the stake is bigger and higher here,” Brian Daingerfield, a Stamford, Connecticut-based currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit, said
in a telephone interview. “The potential threat of military
action might be the No. 1 driver in flight to safety.”  Lira Slumps  Turkey ’s lira fell to as low as 1.9995 per dollar and was
down 0.5 percent to 1.9967 in Istanbul.  “The central bank provided liquidity and this added to
negative factors,” Burcin Metin, head of  currency trading  at
ING Bank AS in Istanbul, said by phone. “There are no reasons
at the moment to be positive about the Turkish lira.”  India ’s rupee fell for the seventh time in eight days after
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram was reported by the
Times of India on the weekend as saying it was too early to
comment on the result of measures to halt the currency’s slide.  India’s rupee slumped 1.5 percent to 64.3063 per dollar
after depreciating to a record-low 65.56 on Aug. 22.  Mexico central-bank Governor Agustin Carstens last week
asked the Fed to clarify plans for tapering its monthly bond
purchases, saying the prospect of a withdrawal of stimulus poses
the “most pressing challenge” for emerging economies. The
currency weakened 1.8 percent to 13.1891 versus the  U.S. dollar .  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $16 billion, compared with $17 billion on Aug. 23,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $4.6 billion, the
largest share of trades at 29 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate totaled $1.7 billion, or 11 percent.  Greenback-yen options trading was 12 percent more than the
average for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day
and euro-dollar trading was 8 percent less, according to
Bloomberg analysis.  Australian-Canadian dollar options trading, at $452
million, was 3,930 percent above average. The Aussie gained as
much as 0.5 percent to 95.27 Canadian cents before trading
little changed at 94.82.  The dollar fell earlier as  bookings  for goods meant to last
at least three years decreased 7.3 percent, the most since
August 2012, after a 3.9 percent gain in June, the Commerce
Department said today in Washington. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 4 percent drop.
Orders waned for aircraft and capital goods such as computers
and electrical equipment.  ‘Softer Note’  The durable-goods report “does suggest that in the third
quarter, overall business investment might be somewhat starting
off on a softer note than some forecasters may have
anticipated,”  Robert Lynch , a currency strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in New York, said in a phone interview. “I
wouldn’t necessarily see big extension of dollar losses on the
back of that. But without much more to go on today, it’s
providing some motivation for shorter-term dollar weakness.”  The Fed’s debate over when it will slow its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases known as quantitative easing has roiled
global financial markets over the past three months. U.S. policy
makers hold their next meeting on Sept. 17-18.  The dollar strengthened 4.9 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track 10 developed-market currencies. The euro is the best performer, rising 6.4
percent, while the yen slumped 9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in  New York  at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  