-- Merrill Lynch Man Achieves Winemaker Dream: Elin McCoy
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2013-08-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/merrill-lynch-man-achieves-winemaker-dream-elin-mccoy.html
As summer winds down, there’s still
time to think about changing your life and leaving the fast lane
of finance for the slow pleasures of winemaking.  Former Merrill Lynch & Co. securities trainee Ray Walker,
now a terroir-obsessed expat in Burgundy, did it on a
shoestring, and, and thanks to a run of astonishing luck,
succeeded beyond his most far-fetched dreams.  In 2009, at the age of 28, he became the first American to
make wine with grapes from the famous Le Chambertin vineyard,
whose red was prized by Napoleon.  Over glasses of Domaine Pierre Gelin Gevrey-Chambertin Clos
de Meixvelle, at Bar Pleiades in  New York , Walker recounts his
tale of how he arrived in Beaune from California with little
money and ended up making premiers and grands crus reds under
the  Maison Ilan  label he owns with his wife, Christian.  “I love being the underdog,” Walker says. “Besides, I
had no back-up plan.”  Now 32, Walker has chronicled his winemaking adventure in
“The Road to Burgundy: The Unlikely Story of an American Making
Wine and a  New Life  in France,” published last month.  His charming story fits in the same genre as “Under the
Tuscan Sun” -- this time for the wine crowd.  Right Stuff  Tall, lean, and soft-spoken, Walker seems pretty humble
about his accomplishments. His extremely polite, almost naive
manner doesn’t hide a dogged determination, warmth, and passion
for red Burgundy, essential qualities for an outsider trying to
prise coveted grapes from a vigneron in this close-knit region.  Growing up in a non-wine-drinking household in Oakland,
 California , he worked for the family real-estate business before
going into finance.  He fell hard for wine on a trip to  Italy  with Christian,
then his fiancee, in early 2005. However it was his first sip of
Burgundy, a 2002 Domaine des Comte Lafon Meursault Clos de la
Barre, six weeks later at a San Francisco tasting that really
stunned him.  “I thought the white was good, and the red Burgundies
poured after it drove me insane,” he recalls.  Walker began memorizing names and locations of Burgundy’s
hundreds of vineyards by studying antique maps in old wine
books, from which he also extracted very traditional ideas of
terroir and winemaking.  At 26, after just seven months in finance, he left behind
the suit and tie and bad office coffee to spend a harvest as a
cellar rat helping make pinot noir at Freeman winery in Sonoma.  Film Buff  Less than a year later, he headed for Burgundy with money
raised through wine forums and $20,000 from a generous backer,
and fumbling French learned watching films like  Jean-Luc Godard ’s “A Bout de Souffle.” His mission: acquire a few
barrels’ worth of village-level grapes.  “There are certain things that call out to you and you
have no choice but to stop everything and change your life,” he
says earnestly.  After months of discouragement, fortune smiled on him. A
broker offered him grapes from grand cru vineyard Charmes-Chambertin, and from Le Chambertin itself. The cost? $130,000.
Luckily Walker’s generous backer sent him a check to cover it.  Thinking it presumptuous to decide what Chambertin should
taste like, he opted for non-interventionist winemaking. “I
figured the less I did, the better,” he says.  The first year he made 2,800 bottles, selling 70 percent of
them after posting what he was doing on a  wine forum . In year
two, he grossed 1.1 million euros.  Premier Cru  This year he expects to make 13,000 bottles of four grands
crus and seven premiers crus.  A couple of years ago I tasted a wine from Walker’s first
vintage, the harmonious 2009 Maison Ilan Charmes-Chambertin in
Burgundy. It was an earthy, generous wine with hints of black
cherries.  His bright, striking 2010 Maison Ilan Morey-Saint-Denis Les
Monts Luisants premier cru ($125) is rich and plush with pure
ripe red fruit laced with smoky notes.  I recommend skimming the first 100 or so pages of Walker’s
book. Then you can focus on the best-written and most
fascinating part starting with Chapter 10 where he’s in  France 
tracking down grapes, finding a cellar, and finagling his way
through the convoluted French bureaucracy for setting up a
business.  I won’t spoil things by telling you how he solves the
problem of getting 11 barrels of wine weighing 600 pounds (272
kilos) each down into his new cellar in the middle of the night.  Walker’s wine story has a classic fairy tale ending -- at
least so far. All but one of his vineyards even escaped the hail
that ravaged Burgundy last month.  “I’ve always had people who were watchful over me,” he
says, “I’m lucky they’ve supported my dreams.”  Of course, it helps that his wines are pretty stellar, too.  His eight wines from the 2011 vintage arrive on shelves
this fall.  “The Road to Burgundy: The Unlikely Story of An American
Making Wine and A New Life in France” (320 pages) by Ray Walker
is published by Gotham in the U.S. at $26 or 17 pounds in the
U.K. To buy the book in  North America , click  here .  For more information on Walker’s wines, see
 http://www.maison-ilan.com .  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night,
 Greg Evans  on television,  James Russell  on architecture and  Mike
Di Paola  on conservation.  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 