-- Euro Seen Snapping Advance on Fed Tapering Bets: Market Reversal
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-08-26T17:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/euro-seen-snapping-advance-on-fed-tapering-bets-market-reversal.html
The euro’s rally to a six-month high
after the trading bloc emerged from its longest-ever recession
is set to reverse, trading patterns show, as the impact of the
stronger economy is overwhelmed by the U.S. paring stimulus.  A measure known as the euro’s moving average convergence-divergence gauge fell below its signal line last week, with
momentum turning negative after the currency climbed to $1.3452
on Aug. 20, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The euro surpassed
the upper limit of its 20-day Bollinger band gauge, which also
signals a turnaround.  While the euro area’s economy grew  0.3 percent  from April
to June, ending six straight quarters of contraction, economists
surveyed by Bloomberg still see gross domestic product shrinking
0.6 percent this year, compared with a 1.6 percent expansion in
the U.S. The  European Central Bank ’s plan to keep borrowing
costs low while the  Federal Reserve  prepares to reduce stimulus
will also weigh on the euro.  “There’s a gap in monetary policy between the U.S. and
 Europe ,” Kengo Suzuki, the chief currency strategist in  Tokyo 
at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-biggest bank,
said in an Aug. 23 phone interview. “Despite some positive
signs in economic data of late, it’s too early to discuss the
reduction of monetary easing, and that will cap the euro’s
upside.”  ‘Topping Out’  The euro rose almost 5 percent against the dollar in the
seven weeks from July 9 to the end of last week and was at
$1.3363 as of1:31 p.m. in  New York , down 0.2 percent from its
close on Aug. 23. Mizuho’s Suzuki sees it dropping toward $1.30
in the next two months, while the median forecast of more than
60 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg has the currency tumbling to
$1.27 by year-end.  The euro “is already topping out” and a decline below
$1.3307 will add evidence to this,  Axel Rudolph , a London-based
technical analyst at Commerzbank AG, wrote in an Aug. 23 report.
The currency may reach about $1.28 in one to three months,
Rudolph wrote.  Europe’s 17-nation shared currency has defied bears for
more than a year, strengthening even as member states including
Greece and  Portugal  struggled to pay their debts and civil
unrest spread across the south of the continent.  The euro advanced 6.5 percent against a basket of nine
major currencies including the greenback and pound this year,
the most of any of its peers, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes show.  Hamper Exports  A stronger currency may hamper the euro area’s exports and
threaten the economy. Overseas shipments rose a seasonally
adjusted 3 percent in June from May, when they dropped 2.6
percent.  ECB Governing Council Member Ewald Nowotny said that the
recent “stream of good news” from the euro-region economy has
removed any need to cut  interest rates  from a record-low 0.5
percent, while ruling out an early end to monetary tightening,
according to an Aug. 22 Bloomberg Television interview from
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  Bank of Cyprus Governor Panicos Demetriades, also a member
of the ECB governing council, said on Aug. 24 that policy makers
can’t “rule out” lowering borrowing costs.  That contrasts with the Fed’s position, which next month
may start scaling back bond purchases that have helped keep a
lid on dollar strength. Minutes of the Federal Open Market
Committee meeting published Aug. 21 showed that most members
were “broadly comfortable” with the plan to trim stimulus in
2013.  MACD Signal  “Markets are moving ahead of central-bank forward guidance
at the moment,”  Chris Weston , the chief market strategist at IG
Markets Ltd. in  Melbourne , said in an Aug. 23 phone interview.
“If we get the euro above $1.35, you’re going to start seeing a
lot more verbal intervention.”  The moving average convergence-divergence, or MACD, is a
gauge of momentum and is calculated by subtracting the 26-day
exponential moving average from the 12-day average. The signal
line is a nine-day exponential moving average of the MACD, and
provides buy and sell signals.  The euro rose above the upper limit of its 20-day Bollinger
band on Aug. 20 and stayed close to this indicator through the
end of last week. The measure, developed by  John Bollinger  in
the 1980s, is used by technical analysts to identify the turning
point in an asset’s trajectory.  Options traders are the most bearish on the euro versus the
dollar in seven weeks, according to a technical measure known as
25-delta risk reversals. The premium on three-month options
granting the right to sell the shared currency compared with
those allowing for purchases was at 1.49 percentage points
today. It increased to 1.52 percentage points on Aug. 22, the
most since July 5 and up from 0.98 percentage point on July 23,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The euro’s failed attempts at the $1.34 level that we’ve
seen this week set the scene for a move back toward the bottom
end of the recent range,” or about $1.32,  Mike Jones , a
Wellington-based currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand
Ltd., said in an Aug. 23 phone interview.  “If we get confirmation that Fed tapering is happening in
September, I suspect that will be the missing ingredient for
euro weakness, and we’ll see that downtrend kick off,” said
Jones, who sees the currency plunging to $1.28 by year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  