-- Euro-Area Economic Confidence Seen Up to 17-Month High
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-08-26T07:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/euro-area-economic-confidence-seen-up-to-17-month-high.html
Economic confidence in the euro area
probably rose to the highest level in 17 months in August,
adding to signs that the currency bloc’s recovery from a  record-long recession  is gathering pace.  An index of sentiment rose to 93.8 from 92.5 in the
previous month, according to the median of 26 economists’
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . The European Commission
said Aug. 23 that consumer sentiment in the 17-nation  euro zone 
increased to a 25-month high in August. Unemployment probably
held at a record 12.1 percent in July, a separate Bloomberg
 survey  shows.  Increased momentum in the region’s economy since it
returned to growth in the second quarter has boosted European
equities, with the Stoxx  Europe  600 index up 11 percent in the
last two months, and companies from  Germany  to Ireland have
raised their business forecasts. Yet Europe continues to
struggle with the legacy of a debt crisis now in its fourth
year, including a jobless rate that’s forecast to stay above 12
percent through 2015.  “Things are maybe not quite as doom and gloom as people
have thought for a long time,” said Christoph von Reiche, the
head of Goldman Sachs Asset Management in Germany. “Even though
we face enormous issues in Europe, it feels like progress has
been made.”  The euro traded little changed at $1.3369 at 9:08 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . The Stoxx Europe 600 was little changed at 304.79.  Factory Output  The euro-area economy expanded 0.3 percent in the three
months to June, led by Germany and  France , ending a run of six
quarterly contractions. Adding to the indications of recovery,
 services and manufacturing output  expanded more than economists
forecast in August, data from London-based Markit Economics
show.  Hamburger Hafen & Logistik AG, the handler of about 80
percent of containers at Hamburg’s port, raised its 2013 volume
forecast on Aug. 14 after Asian trade gathered pace and Baltic
Sea traffic amplified.  In Ireland,  Kingspan Group Plc (KSP) , a maker of building
insulation panels, said acquisitions boosted first-half results
and the company should “deliver an improved year-on-year result
in the second half.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said this
month that while risks to the economy continue to be on the
downside, he expects a gradual recovery in the second half of
the year. The Frankfurt-based ECB said in July it would keep
 interest rates  low for an extended period after it cut its
benchmark rate to a record low of 0.5 percent in May.  Export Growth  “The actual figures are quite impressive,”  Draghi said  on
Aug. 1. “There have been strong increases in exports, not only
in Germany, but also in  Spain  and  Italy , which shows that
something has happened to reform and enhance competitiveness.”  Consumer-price growth probably slowed to 1.4 percent in
August after a 1.6 percent gain a month earlier, another
 Bloomberg survey  shows.  Inflation (ECCPEST)  has been below the ECB’s 2
percent ceiling since February.  ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said last week
that the recent “stream of good news” from the euro-area
economy has removed any need to cut interest rates. At the same
time, he ruled out an early monetary tightening, saying in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , that “the most recent developments will
have no immediate effects” on ECB policy.  That contrasts with ECB Governing Council Member Panicos Demetriades, who said on Aug. 24 that a rate cut “is still on
the cards.”  Record Unemployment  With the economy improving, policy makers may face a debate
about higher rates sooner than anticipated. The ECB holds its
next policy meeting on Sept. 5.  “The ECB has announced that it will raise interest rates
once the economy improves,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told Handelsblatt last week. “That’s good.”  The European Commission publishes its economic-confidence
report on Aug. 30. The European Union’s statistics office
releases unemployment and inflation data the same day.  While the statistical evidence of recovery mounts, euro-area unemployment has proven resistant to the improving trend,
and some companies are still cutting jobs. France and Germany
are driving expansion, yet at least  four euro countries remain
in recessions , including Italy and Spain.  German Jobs  Euro-area unemployment will peak at 12.3 percent in the
third quarter and remain at that level next year before falling
to an average of 12 percent in 2015, according to a Bloomberg
monthly survey of economists. The job market has proven
especially tough for people under 25 years of age in the euro
zone, with  23.9 percent  of them out of work in June, according
to Eurostat.  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , the German steelmaker that cut its forecast
on Aug. 5 amid waning demand in Europe, announced plans on Aug.
14 to shed more than 1,500 jobs as it seeks to save more than
200 million euros.  Michelin & Cie, Europe’s largest tiremaker, said on June 10
that it would end production of heavy-truck tires at a factory
southwest of Paris in 2015, costing about 730 of the plant’s 930
employees their jobs.  In contrast to many of its euro partners, Germany’s
unemployment rate probably remained close to a two-decade low in
August, a  Bloomberg survey  shows. The Federal Labor Agency in
Nuremberg will publish the data on Aug. 29.  A solid job market may help Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who
seeks a third term as German leader in a Sept. 22 election on
the strength of shielding her country from the worst effects of
the euro area’s debt crisis.  The euro-area economy “will keep expanding in the second
half of the year,” HSBC Holdings Plc European economist Matteo Cominetta said. “I don’t expect a return to faster growth rates
above 1 percent any time soon, but at least growth in the euro
area will remain steady and recession fears are off the table
for now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  