-- Ex-Kiwara CEO Targets Zambia Geothermal Power to Plug Gap
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-08-26T08:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/ex-kiwara-ceo-targets-zambia-geothermal-power-to-plug-gap.html
Kalahari GeoEnergy Ltd. plans to
produce power from steam resources in Zambia to help end a
shortfall of electricity in  Africa ’s biggest copper producer,
Chief Executive Officer Peter Vivian-Neal said.  The basin where Kalahari is drilling its first exploration
well may have enough resources for as much as 1,000 megawatts,
or about half of the southern African nation’s current
generation capacity, Vivian-Neal, the former CEO of Kiwara Plc,
which  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  paid $260 million for in 2009,
said by phone on Aug. 23.  “We are looking at the sedimentary basin, which in the
U.S. context might have the capacity of 100 to 1,000
megawatts,” he said. The Geothermal Energy Association says the
U.S. produces 3,187 megawatts of capacity from this source.
Kalahari drilled its first well in Zambia’s Southern province
Aug. 12 and “interpretation should be complete by end of
December,” according to Vivian-Neal.  Zambia, where  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) ,  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) 
and  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  operate mines, has a power deficit of 180
megawatts and electricity cuts are common as state-owned
supplier Zesco Ltd. struggles to keep pace with growing demand.
Zesco plans to spend about $5 billion to increase generation
capacity and Nava Bharat Singapore Pte Ltd. is spending $750
million on a coal-fired plant in Southern Province.  The country has capacity to produce about 2,000 megawatts
of power, almost all generated by hydro plants such as Kariba
North, which lies on a dam on the border with  Zimbabwe .  Raising Funds  Kalahari, based in Lusaka, the capital, might proceed with
deeper drilling to prove a geothermal resource in May, depending
on the outcomes of preliminary drilling that’s under way,
Vivian-Neal said.  If the results are positive, the company will probably
build a power plant with a megawatt capacity as much as “the
high teens,” he said. One megawatt is enough to power about 500
to 1,000 U.S. homes.  “You start with something really small and show people
that it works and then you add incrementally,” he said.  Kalahari’s shareholders have funded works so far, and the
company will look to raise money once it has the results of the
preliminary drilling, said Vivian-Neal. The company will also
consider an initial public offering in the future, he said.  “We’re in a strong position to raise funding given the
interest in the east African geothermal industry,” said Vivian-Neal. “A company like this conceptually might be of interest to
other industry operators.”  Kenya has an estimated untapped geothermal resource of as
much as 10,000 megawatts, while Geothermal Power Tanzania Ltd.
plans to spend as much as $350 million to produce electricity
from steam wells in that country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  