-- Gang Rapes Reignite Debate About Women’s Safety in India
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-08-26T07:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/gang-rapes-reignite-debate-about-women-s-safety-in-india.html
The  Mumbai police  arrested all the
five suspects accused of raping a young photographer as a
similar attack on a female officer in eastern India reignited an
angry debate about the safety of women in the country.  The crime in India’s financial capital triggered street
protests and an outpouring of anger as the South Asian country
prepares to hold national elections by May. Jharkhand police
said on Aug. 24 that one of their female officers was pulled out
of a car and gang raped by bandits as she escorted the body of
her murdered sister to be cremated last week.  “Law and order is going to be one of the biggest election
issues,” said N. Bhaskara Rao, chairman of the New Delhi-based
Centre for Media Studies. “Angry voters want to know why the
government is not able to stop these attacks. The more they keep
happening, the more this issue is going to snowball.”  The attacks follow a bout of national soul-searching caused
by the gang rape and murder of a student in New Delhi in
December that triggered weeks of national protests. Even after
the enactment of new laws imposing stricter penalties for men
who attack women and the setting up of fast-track courts,  India 
is struggling to tame violent and chauvinistic male attitudes
that leave ordinary women vulnerable to harassment and rape.  Magazine Intern  Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde told lawmakers in
parliament today that the male colleague who was with the woman
at the time of the Aug. 22 attack provided vital clues that led
to the arrest of all the five suspects.  The woman, a photojournalist working as an intern with a
magazine, was assaulted while shooting an abandoned textile
mill. While the victim was taken away and repeatedly raped, her
companion was tied and beaten up.  The incident has led to comparisons with the fatal gang
rape of a physiotherapist in  New Delhi  at the end of last year.
Protesters in Mumbai took to the streets over the weekend and
there was uproar in parliament on Aug. 23 with lawmakers calling
for tougher sentences for rapists.  The five suspects are likely to face prosecution under a
new law that sets the maximum prison term for rape at 20 years
if they are convicted.  Beer Bottle  When her mother called as the woman was being raped, the
men held a broken beer bottle to her throat and made her say
everything was all right, according to the  Hindustan Times 
newspaper, citing the victim’s statement to the police.
Concerned that something was wrong, her mother called back and
was again given assurances nothing was wrong, the paper said.  After raping her, the men forced her to clean up the crime
scene and took photos of her, threatening to release them on the
Internet if she went to the police, according to  NDTV  television
channel, which didn’t say where it got the information.  The Jharkhand police officer was attacked last week
although details only emerged on Aug. 24 because she didn’t
initially report the crime. The officer was traveling with her
family late at night when their car was stopped by axe-wielding
men, who robbed them and later took her to an isolated spot and
raped her, Superintendent of Police  Michael S. Raj  said in a
telephone interview.  Death Penalty  The woman, a widow in her late twenties, was taking the
body of her sister who was shot dead by criminals, he said. She
joined the police force only last year after her husband was
killed by Maoist insurgents.  In response to public fury about the Delhi gang rape, the
government toughened laws on sexual assault, criminalizing
stalking and voyeurism, and allowing for capital punishment if
an attack leaves the victim in a vegetative state. This has
failed to reduce the crime. In Delhi, the Indian city that has
the highest number of sexual assaults, the attacks doubled in
the first six months of the year.  Safety concerns among women travelers were partly to blame
for a 35 percent drop in female foreign tourist arrivals in the
first three months of this year, according to an April study by
the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry in India.  India’s tourism minister K. Chiranjeevi expressed his
concern about the safety of foreign tourists after an American
student living in India for three months wrote about her
experiences on the website of  CNN . The woman Michaela Cross said
she suffered from post-traumatic stress after returning to the
U.S from India.  Fetal Position  Cross said men  stalked  her, groped her and masturbated at
her during her time in the country. In one incident at a hotel
in the popular beach resort of Goa, Cross said that she sat in
the fetal position holding a pair of scissors with the door
bolted after a staff member tried to rape her roommate and
repeatedly called her, breathing heavily down the phone.  “I was extremely pained when I read about the
harassment,” Chiranjeevi said in a  statement . Chiranjeevi is
working to raise awareness so men are more sensitive toward
female tourists and to provide them with greater security.  A 2011 survey by the  Thomson Reuters Foundation  listed
India as the fourth-worst place in the world to be a woman,
after  Afghanistan , the  Democratic Republic  of Congo and
 Pakistan . The report cited abortions of girl fetuses, human
trafficking, sexual violence and poor education.  Verdicts in the trial of those accused of taking part in
the Dec. 16 Delhi attack are expected soon, with the juvenile
justice board set to issue its judgment on a teenage suspect on
Aug. 31. The closing arguments in the trial of the four other
men started last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at   rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  