-- Geely Targets U.S. Exports With Volvo-Developed Models in 2016
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-25T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/geely-targets-u-s-exports-with-volvo-developed-models-in-2016.html
Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175) ,
whose parent owns Volvo Cars, said it plans to start exporting
cars that it develops with the Swedish brand to the U.S. in
2016, a decade after founder  Li Shufu  first set the goal.  The Chinese automaker is banking on Volvo’s reputation for
safety and reliability to help it compete in developed markets,
after a previous attempt to break into the U.S. failed because
of a lack in consumer recognition and confidence. Geely first
took part in the Detroit motor show in 2006.  “Our acquisition of Volvo enhanced our image and overseas
consumers are seeing us as an international company,” Gui Shengyue, chief executive officer of Geely, said in an Aug. 23
interview in Hong Kong. “Our deliveries in U.S. and  Europe  will
be banking on those jointly developed models.”  Chairman Li had previously kept the Geely and Volvo brands
separate on concerns that an association with a Chinese marque
would diminish the Swedish automaker’s image. The joint models
may help burnish Geely’s image as the Chinese carmaker seeks to
become the country’s largest auto exporter.  “Overseas markets are very important to Geely and other
Chinese automakers to help them boost sales and build their
brands,” said Han Weiqi, an analyst at CSC International
Holdings in  Shanghai . “Even so, they still need to try even
harder in their home market given the huge potential demand.”  Geely’s shares rose 3.9 percent to HK$4.01 in  Hong Kong ,
the highest close in more than three months. The stock has
gained 9.3 percent this year, compared with the 3.5 percent
decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Overseas Push  The automaker said last week that it may become China’s
biggest vehicle exporter this year with as many as 180,000 units
in overseas shipments. Geely sold 100,800 vehicles abroad last
year, lagging behind top-ranked Chery Automobile Co.’s 184,800
units, according to the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers.  Chinese automakers are stepping up their efforts to expand
overseas as they face intensifying competition in their home
market. The combined market share by Chinese auto brands fell to
a five-year low in July, according to the auto association.  Automakers in  China  have a planned capacity to make 40
million vehicles by 2015, outstripping the projected domestic
demand of about 27 million, according to the National
Development and Reform Commission, the top planning agency.  Geely targets to have as much as 60 percent of its sales
coming from overseas by 2018, Gui said. The automaker is
planning to add a new sport utility vehicle model in China next
year to better tap into the fast-growing segment, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  