-- Germany Must Pay for Euro, Merkel’s SPD Challenger Says
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-08-26T09:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/germany-must-pay-for-euro-merkel-challenger-steinbrueck-says.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s main
challenger in next month’s election said Germany will again have
to pay the bill to save the euro and that the chancellor has
failed to alert voters as a third Greek rescue looms.  Social Democrat  Peer Steinbrueck  said Merkel should have
been up front about the cost of rescuing the euro area since
2010, when the first bailout package was set up. Greece will
“most likely” need new funds, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said, adding that the amount will be “much lower”
than previous packages and won’t be determined until next year.  “Germany will have to pay for the stability of  Europe  and
the  euro zone ,” Steinbrueck told  ARD television  in an interview
yesterday in Berlin. He said talk of another Greek package
showed that “crisis strategy up until now hasn’t lit a spark,
but rather has failed.”  Greece continues to dominate the German campaign less than
four weeks before the Sept. 22 vote, as the SPD escalates its
attacks over Merkel’s crisis response in a bid to narrow the
chancellor’s lead in  most polls . With the  European debt crisis 
in its fourth year, Merkel’s party allies have begun to address
openly the prospect of a fresh Greek aid package.  Steinbrueck’s SPD advanced a percentage point to 25
percent, behind Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led bloc, which
held at 40 percent, according to a weekly  Emnid  poll for Bild
newspaper yesterday. Merkel’s Free Democratic Party coalition
partner dropped a point to 5 percent, while the SPD’s Green
party allies stayed at 12 percent, according to the poll, which
surveyed 2,755 voters Aug. 15-21. No margin of error was given.  Grand Coalition  Those numbers would leave Merkel struggling to maintain a
majority with her current coalition, possibly forcing her into
another “grand coalition” with the SPD. Merkel governed with
the SPD from 2005 to 2009.  Schaeuble prompted the debate over  Greece  on Aug. 20 when
he told a campaign rally that the debt-strapped nation will need
a new program to meet sustainability targets. Steinbrueck said
the comment exposed vulnerability for Merkel.  “Schaeuble unconsciously and somewhat in passing placed an
issue onto the agenda that Merkel would rather have left out of
the election campaign,” Steinbrueck told ARD.  The finance minister said at the weekend that he wanted to
clarify that any fresh aid to Greece wouldn’t involve a second
writedown of the country’s outstanding debt, which would fall
mostly on public institutions such as the  European Central Bank .  Leaving Debt  “I had to make clear that there won’t be a debt cut, but
that doesn’t mean that nothing has to be done next year,”
Schaeuble told visitors at his ministry’s open day in Berlin
yesterday. “I wanted to avoid that anybody could say that this
government isn’t saying what it knows before the election.”  European Union Energy Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger , a
fellow German  Christian Democrat , went further. Greece will
likely need a package in the “small two-digit billion” range
from 2014 to 2016, he told Die Welt am Sonntag newspaper. That
aligned with Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras, who told
Athens-based newspaper Proto Thema that Greece may need 10
billion euros ($13.4 billion) in aid.  Merkel repeated in an interview with  Focus magazine  that
she “doesn’t foresee” a debt writedown for Greece, saying that
such a move would create havoc and drive the appetite for
private investors in the euro area to “near zero.”  ‘Domino Effect’  “I would urgently warn against a debt writedown,” Merkel
told the magazine in an interview published yesterday, saying
that it could trigger a ‘domino effect” across the euro area.  Steinbrueck took up the debate to accuse Merkel of
concealing from German voters the necessity of transfer payments
to debt-strapped nations in solidarity.  “That  Germany  has long been in a liability union is
uncontested -- and that’s something that Merkel should have
explained to our citizens back in 2010, when she instead said
that the Greeks won’t get a cent,” Steinbrueck told ARD.  Both candidates return to the campaign trail this week,
with Merkel scheduling stops across seven states in cities
including Ulm and  Frankfurt . Steinbrueck, also at rallies in
seven states, will continue his town-hall style “ Straight-Talk ” campaign in cities such as Hamburg, Bremen and Muenster.  Merkel and Steinbrueck will then convene in Berlin on Sept.
1 for the campaign’s only televised debate.  Merkel last week sought to shift the focus to the SPD’s
plans to raise taxes on the wealthy, warning that such a move
could jeopardize the country’s two-decade low  unemployment .  Steinbrueck has so far  failed  to put a dent in Merkel’s
popularity with a platform of wealth distribution and social
justice. Little more than a quarter -- 28 percent -- of
respondents to an FG Wahlen poll said they thought Germany would
be more “socially just” under an SPD-led government. Just 18
percent said they expected the SPD to improve its score in the
polls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  