-- U.S. Stocks Fall on Syria Concern; Treasuries, Crops Gain
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2013-08-26T20:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/gold-holds-gains-as-wti-climbs-on-fed-asian-futures-rise.html
U.S. stocks fell, erasing earlier
gains in the final hour, as Secretary of State John Kerry said
the president will hold  Syria ’s government accountable for using
chemical weapons. Treasuries advanced, while crops led
commodities higher.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 0.4 percent to
1,656.78 at 4 p.m. in New York with  trading volumes  21 percent
below the 30-day average. The yield on 10-year Treasuries
dropped three basis points to 2.79 percent while the S&P GSCI
Index of 24 raw materials climbed 0.2 percent to a one-month
high, with corn and soybeans surging as hot, dry weather in the
Midwest threatened to reduce crop harvests.  Turkey ’s lira slid
as much as 0.6 percent to a record against the dollar and
 India ’s rupee sank 1.5 percent.  The S&P 500 was up as much as 0.4 percent  earlier  and
turned lower as Kerry said President  Barack Obama  will make an
“informed decision” and hold Syria’s government accountable
for the “moral obscenity” of using chemical weapons against
its people. Economic data this morning showed durable goods
orders in the U.S. fell in July for the first month since March,
triggering speculation the Federal Reserve will not commit to a
large-scale reduction in stimulus efforts.  “If there’s going to be turmoil and then if there’s going
to be some retaliation and affect U.S. assets, people get a
little scared,”  Frank Ingarra , head trader at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based NorthCoast Asset Management LLC, said in a
phone interview. “It’s a bit of a pullback so people are
probably taking some risk off the table.”  Syria Concern  Obama hasn’t decided whether the U.S. will take military
action in Syria, according to an administration official who
asked for anonymity to discuss internal deliberations. Kerry
said the evidence is “undeniable” that chemical weapons were
used against residents of a Damascus suburb last week and that
President Bashar al-Assad’s regime has the toxic weapons and the
capability to deploy them. Suggestions that reports of the
attack have been fabricated are groundless, he said.  Stocks, bonds and commodities have been whipsawed since
May, when Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke first signaled the
prospect of cuts to stimulus should the economy and job market
continue to improve. The Fed will probably pare its $85 billion
a month in bond purchases at its Sept. 17-18 meeting, according
to 65 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  advanced 0.5 percent last week, halting a two
week slide. Bookings for goods meant to last at least three
years decreased 7.3 percent last month, the most since August
2012, after a 3.9 percent gain in June, the Commerce Department
said today. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 4 percent drop.  ‘Slow Recovery’  “It’s another data point that indicates a slow recovery,”
Eric Teal, who helps oversee $5 billion as the chief investment
officer at First Citizens BancShares Inc. in Raleigh, North
Carolina, said by phone. “This is all pointing towards less
tapering by the Fed, which is probably bullish for the stock
market in general.”  Telephone, consumer-staples and utility companies lost at
least 0.8 percent to lead declines in the 10 main industry
groups in the S&P 500, with health-care stocks posting the only
gain. Procter & Gamble Co., Microsoft Corp. and Verizon
Communications Inc. lost more than 1.4 percent for the biggest
declines in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  Market Movers  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX)  jumped 5.6 percent after Amgen
Inc. agreed to acquire the cancer-treatment developer in a $10.4
billion transaction. Tyson Foods Inc., the largest U.S. meat
processor, fell 7.3 percent after Bank of America Corp. analysts
cut their rating on the stock.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  rallied for a third
day, gaining almost 2 percent and sending its market value above
$100 billion amid optimism the world’s largest social network
can bolster sales from mobile advertising.  Trading in the U.S. is headed for the second-slowest month
in at least five years, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
An average of about 5.5 billion shares have changed hands each
day this month. That’s about 60 million shares more than last
August.  Price gains of stocks in the S&P 500 are outpacing profits
by the fastest rate in 14 years as the bull market extends
beyond the average length of rallies since 1946. The benchmark
gauge for U.S. equities has risen 14 percent relative to income
over the past 12 months to 16 times earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Valuations last climbed this fast in the
final year of the 1990s technology bubble, just before the index
began a 49 percent tumble.  European Stocks  About two shares declined for each that gained in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, while the gauge closed little changed amid
volume 57 percent lower than the 30-day average. U.K. markets
were shut for a holiday.  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  increased 3 percent in Amsterdam after winning
the support of minority shareholder America Movil SAB for the
sale of its German business to  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG (O2D) 
after the acquirer agreed to sweeten its bid.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.1 percent after
slumping 2.7 percent last week. About $1.4 trillion has been
erased from the value of emerging-market equities since Bernanke
said May 22 that policy makers could scale back bond buying.  Soybeans gained 4.6 percent and corn rallied 6.5 percent.  Crop Concern  Temperatures will average as much as 14 degrees Fahrenheit
above normal during the next seven days, with little rain
expected in the Midwest, T-Storm Weather LLC said in a note to
clients today. Rainfall in July and August will be the least
since 1936 in Iowa, Illinois and  Indiana . Soybean yields will be
1.8 percent lower than the government forecast Aug. 12,
Professional Farmers of America said Aug. 23, after a tour of
more than 2,600 fields in seven states last week.  West Texas Intermediate crude lost 0.5 percent to $105.92 a
barrel following the durable goods report and as Libya restarted
exports from a previously closed port. Gold futures increased
0.6 percent to $1,403.70 an ounce in extended  trading after
settling the regular session down 0.2 percent.  The U.S. currency was stronger against 11 of 16 major peers
and the Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge of the greenback
versus 10 counterparts, increased 0.1 percent.  Thirty-year Treasury yields, which reached a two-year high
last week, fell 2.6 basis points to 3.77 percent. Two-year rates
lost one point to 0.36 percent.  As the U.S. bond market suffers its worst rout since 2009,
the gauge that historically signals more pain for fixed-income
investors is instead suggesting yields are near their peak.  Yield Curves  The gap between two- and 10-year Treasury yields widened to
2.55 percentage points this month, double the median of 1.23
points since 1990 and approaching the record 2.93 points in
February 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield curve
is steepening at the fastest pace since 2009 as the Fed signals
its intent to keep the target interest rate for overnight loans
between banks at about zero into 2015 while reducing the bond-buying economic stimulus that drove 10-year yields to the
highest level in more than two years.  Italian 10-year yields rose five basis points to 4.38
percent and Spain’s rate was little changed at 4.46 percent
while German bund yields declined four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.89 percent.  European Central Bank Governing Council members Panicos Demetriades and Ewald Nowotny split over whether scope remains
for further interest-rate cuts, while three regional Fed
presidents differed over the timing for reducing bond buying as
central bankers met over the weekend in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming .  The ECB still can’t rule out lowering the benchmark rate
from the record low of 0.5 percent, Bank of Cyprus Governor
Demetriades said in an Aug. 24 interview. Bank of Austria
Governor Nowotny said on Aug. 22 that he doesn’t see “many
arguments now for a rate cut” after the recent “stream of good
news.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  