-- Libya Says Oil Exports From Brega Resume as Protests Ease
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-08-25T16:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/libya-says-oil-exports-from-brega-resume-as-protests-ease.html
(Corrects to say Awami works at oil ministry in second,
sixth paragraphs.)  Libyan oil exports resumed from
Brega, one of four ports where force majeure was declared last
week, as protests that have shut the facilities since the end of
July eased, according to officials in Tripoli.  The tanker Vallesina departed two days ago for  Italy  with
630,000 barrels of Brega-grade crude, Ibrahim Al Awami, the oil
ministry’s director of measurement, said in a telephone
interview. Deputy Oil Minister Omar Shakmak confirmed by phone
that it’s the first export from Brega since the Aug. 22 lifting
of the force majeure.  The other terminals where force majeure was declared on
Aug. 18, Es Sider, the North African nation’s largest, Ras Lanuf
and Zueitina, remain shut, Awami said. The oil port of Hariga,
on the far eastern side of the country, hasn’t resumed exports
even though  National Oil  didn’t include it in the list of
facilities that weren’t operating.  Brega may add about 90,000 barrels a day to Libya’s current
shipments of 500,000 barrels a day, which go through the through
the western terminal of Zawiya and the offshore loading
platforms of Mellitah, Al Jurf and Bouri.  Two other ships called at Brega since Aug. 22, loading urea
and methanol cargos, Awami said.  Corruption Allegations  Protests over pay and corruption allegations by members of
the Petroleum Facilities Guards curtailed the North African
nation’s output to less than half the 1.6 million barrel-a-day
level pumped before the 2011 revolution that ousted Muammar Qaddafi. The nation is currently pumping about 700,000 barrels
of crude a day, according to the ministry’s Awami.  The shutdowns affected companies operating in the eastern
and central regions such as Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Marathon Oil
Corp., Hess Corp. and ConocoPhillips, according to Bloomberg
Industries analysis. The actions also cut oil refining
operations to 40 percent of Libya’s installed capacity of
380,000 barrels a day.  The nation now has three of its five refineries in
operation, with a combined processing capacity of 150,000
barrels a day, Awami said. The Zawiya refinery, Libya’s second-largest, is operating with a capacity of 120,000 barrels a day
while Ras Lanuf, the largest with a daily capacity of 220,000
barrels, is shut, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Saleh Sarrar in Tripoli at 
 ssarar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  