-- Higher CO2 Harms All Marine Life From Corals and Clams to Fish
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-08-25T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/higher-co2-harms-all-marine-life-from-corals-and-clams-to-fish.html
Rising levels of carbon dioxide are
harming all forms of marine life because the oceans are
acidifying as they absorb the gas, German researchers found.  Mollusks, corals and a class of creatures called
echinoderms that includes starfish and sea urchins are the worst
affected by the uptake of CO2 by the seas, according to a study
today in the journal Nature  Climate Change  by researchers at the
 Alfred Wegener Institute  in Bremerhaven. The gas forms carbonic
acid when it dissolves in the oceans, lowering their pH level.  Creatures that show negative effects from acidification
include commercial species such as oysters and cod. Given the
pace at which carbon-dioxide emissions are growing, human
emissions threaten to trigger extinctions at a faster pace than
die-outs millions of years ago, according to the researchers.  “There is a danger that we’re pushing things too fast and
too hard toward an evolutionary crisis,” Hans-Otto Poertner,
one of the authors, said in a phone interview. “In the past,
these crises have taken much longer to develop.”  The research will be fed into the  United Nations ’ most
detailed study into the science of climate change, which is
being published in three parts and an overall summary by the end
of 2014, and is designed to inform international climate treaty
negotiations. Today’s study will be input for the second part of
that report, by the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change, due to be published at the end of March. The first part
is scheduled for publication on Sept. 27.  Acidifying Seas  The researchers examined 167 previous studies about the
effects of acidifying oceans on 153 species, analyzing their
findings and using forecasts of future emissions to predict how
they might be affected as carbon-dioxide emissions into the
atmosphere grow. The oceans absorb more than a quarter of
manmade CO2 emissions.  They found that at concentrations of CO2 in the atmosphere
of 500 parts per million to 650 parts per million, negative
effects outweighed positive ones for corals, echinoderms,
mollusks and fish though not for crustaceans. At higher
concentrations, all categories of creatures were harmed. CO2 is
currently just under 400 parts per million, rising about 2 ppm
to 3 ppm a year.  “All animal groups we considered are affected negatively
by higher carbon-dioxide concentrations,” Astrid Wittmann, a
biologist at the institute and the report’s other author, said
in a statement. “Corals, echinoderms and mollusks above all
react very sensitively to a decline in the pH value.”  Behavioral Changes  Negative effects include behavioral and sensory changes
that make fish less fearful of predators, altered metabolism,
and a slowing of the rate at which mollusks can form shells.
Similar sensitivity to rising CO2 can be observed in the fossil
records of extinctions that took place 55 million years ago and
250 million years ago respectively, Poertner said.  He cautioned that the study has limitations because “you
cannot do sufficiently long studies to really mimic what will
happen in 50 years.”  The research was designed to look solely at the effects of
the acidification caused by the carbon-dioxide emissions,
according to Poertner. When the warming effects of the gas are
also factored in, it could accelerate negative effects because
the temperature a species can withstand in more acidic
conditions may be lower, he said.  “We are at a risk of causing extinctions,” Poertner said.
“We cannot give with any certainty the year when people will
start to report extinctions due to climate change. It depends on
what temperature change and CO2 concentrations we allow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  