-- Julie Harris, Stage Star Who Won Five Tony Awards, Dies at 87
-- B y   K a t h r y n   H a r r i s
-- 2013-08-25T13:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/julie-harris-stage-star-who-won-five-tony-awards-dies-at-87.html
Julie Harris, a luminous stage
actress who appeared in 30 Broadway plays and was nominated 10
times for Tony awards, winning five, has died. She was 87.  She died yesterday at her home in West Chatham, 
 Massachusetts , actress and family friend Francesca James said, 
according to the  Associated Press . The cause was congestive 
heart failure.  However much she may have welcomed the money that
television and movies provided over the years, Harris remained
devoted to the theater. Harold Clurman, who directed Harris in
four Broadway plays, likened her to “a nun whose church is the
stage.”  Her 10 Tony nominations were a record for performers, while
her five wins were equaled by  Angela Lansbury  and Audra
McDonald.  Harris won her first Tony in 1952 for “I Am a Camera,”
the play that inspired the musical “Cabaret.” As Sally Bowles,
Harris showed “the quicksilver and the genius we all long to
discover on the stage,” wrote  New York  Times critic Brooks
Atkinson.  Playwright Donald Freed called her “a throwback to a time
when theater and religion intersected. No matter what character
she plays, there is something transcendent about her
performance.”  The actress had a simple explanation of what the stage had
given her. “I found God in the theater,” she said in 2005.  Tony Awards  Aside from “Camera,” her Tony  awards  were for “The
Lark” (1956), “Forty Carats” (1969), “The Last of Mrs.
Lincoln” (1973) and “The Belle of Amherst” (1977). Her final
Tony nomination came for “The Gin Game” in 1997, more than
five decades after her first Broadway appearance.  She received a Tony Award for lifetime achievement in 2002,
the year after suffering a stroke that ended her stage career.  In her film career, she played  James Dean ’s love interest
in “ East of Eden ” (1955), yet never became a big movie star.  On television, she was best known as Lilimae Clements in
the drama “Knots Landing” from 1980 to 1987. She won three
Emmy awards and was nominated for another eight.  Julia Ann Harris was born on Dec. 2, 1925, in Grosse
Pointe,  Michigan , the daughter of an investment banker whose
family home in the Detroit suburb was a shorefront mansion on
Lake St. Clair.  While she wasn’t a strong student, she was a good mimic and
“always got the juicy parts” in school plays, the actress told
Joan Kufrin, author of the 1981 book “Uncommon Women.”  Yale Drama  Harris spent three summers at a camp for aspiring actors in
 Colorado  and persuaded her parents to send her to a private
girls’ school in  New York City  that emphasized the arts. She
enrolled in the Yale School of Drama and, at 19, made her
 Broadway debut  in 1945 in “It’s a Gift.”  Five years later, Harris was the talk of Broadway. Only 24,
the slight, blue-eyed actress played a 12-year-old tomboy in
“The Member of the Wedding,” the Carson McCullers play that
ran for 501 performances and marked Harris for stardom. The
 movie version , in 1952, gained Harris her only Academy Award
nomination.  A versatile actress, Harris was deft at comedy as well as
drama, playing opposite Walter Matthau in the original Broadway
production of “A Shot in the Dark.”  Still, she preferred the challenge of portraying historic
women on stage. She played Joan of Arc in “The Lark,” Mary
Todd Lincoln in “The Last of Mrs. Lincoln” and poet Emily
Dickinson in “The Belle of Amherst.”  Always Prepared  Preparation and research were Harris hallmarks. She hired a
staff of experts and used authentic props for “The Countess,”
a one-woman show about Count Tolstoy’s wife.  For “Marathon ‘33,” a play about the grueling Depression-era dance contests, Harris practiced with a weighted dummy to
simulate a sleep-heavy partner. Her efforts earned a Tony
nomination in 1964; the play closed after 48 performances.  Harris was 20 when she married Jay I. Julien, a lawyer who
later produced a Jean Anouilh play in which she starred. They
divorced in 1954.  She then married Manning Gurian, who had been the company
manager of “I Am a Camera.” Three months after the birth of
their son, Peter, she began rehearsals for the 1955 production
of “The Lark.”  Years later, the actress said she regretted not having more
children. She had lacked the courage to attempt raising a larger
family while pursuing her stage career, she said. She and  Gurian 
divorced and a subsequent marriage to Walter Erwin Carroll, a
newspaperman and playwright, also failed.  Cape Cod  “Of course it would have been wonderful to have a great
home life and the companionship that supports it,” she told the
 Washington  Post. “But that doesn’t always happen. And so I went
back to work, as the saying goes.”  She remained a frequent theatergoer after her stroke and
retirement to her home in West Chatham, on Cape Cod. The nearby
Wellfleet Harbor theater named its stage after her in 2007.  Unassuming in person, she traveled alone by train to
Washington, D.C., when she was honored at a Smithsonian
“Evening with Julie Harris” event in February 2005. She was
among five  honorees  at the Kennedy Center that December, cited
by President  George W. Bush  for becoming “the most respected
actress in American theater.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathryn Harris at  cstevens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  