-- Netanyahu, Peres Urge Action Against Assad After Chemical Attack
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-08-25T10:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/netanyahu-peres-urge-action-against-assad-after-chemical-attack.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Shimon Peres called for action against
Syrian President Bashar Assad after his regime allegedly used
chemical weapons against his own people.  Some Syrian opposition groups charge the Assad government
with carrying out a chemical arms attack on Aug. 21 that killed
about 1,300 residents of a Damascus suburb. The Syrian
government denies the allegations.  “What happened in Syria is a terrible crime and a terrible
tragedy,” Netanyahu said at the weekly cabinet meeting in
 Jerusalem  today, in remarks broadcast on Army Radio. “It cannot
be allowed for the world’s most dangerous regimes to have the
world’s most dangerous weapons.”  The U.S. and U.K. are now examining “all the options” in
response to the Syrian government’s suspected use of chemical
weapons, the office of Prime Minister David Cameron said in a
statement after a phone call between the British leader and
President  Barack Obama .  “The time has come for a joint effort to remove all the
chemical weapons from Syria,” Peres said today at a meeting in
Jerusalem with French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, according
to an e-mailed statement from his office. “They cannot remain
there, either in the hands of Assad, or of others.”  Netanyahu has said  Israel  will act as necessary to prevent
the Assad government from transferring its chemical weapons and
other advanced arms out of the country, possibly into the hands
of Lebanon’s Hezbollah organization. Israel is believed to have
carried out three air strikes this year against Syrian arms
convoys and military installations, according to security
analysts.  Minister of Intelligence Yuval Steinitz said today that
while the chances that  Syria  would respond to a U.S.-led
military action against it by striking at Israel were
“relatively small,” Israel has to be prepared for the
possibility. “We have to be ready both in terms of defense, and
offense,” Steinitz said in remarks broadcast on Army Radio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  