-- No Tolerance for Russia’s Anti-Gay Games
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-25T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/no-tolerance-for-russia-s-anti-gay-games.html
The  International Olympic Committee 
is letting Russia off far too easy. Russia has argued
nonsensically that its new anti-gay law is in keeping with the
Olympic Charter’s protections against discrimination, and the
IOC simply has accepted it.  The law , approved by the Russian parliament in June,
prohibits “propaganda” in support of “nontraditional” sexual
relationships. This means virtually any expression of homosexual
love, or approval of or information about homosexuality.
Russians face fines; foreigners, deportation. But this is not
discrimination, Russian Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak
claimed in a letter to the IOC, because the law applies equally
to gay and straight people.  The IOC  said  this incredible explanation amounts to
“strong written reassurances from the Russian government that
everyone will be welcome at the Games in Sochi regardless of
their sexual orientation.”  That’s not the issue, though. Being gay hasn’t been illegal
in  Russia  since 1993 -- even if being openly gay is increasingly
dangerous. The point is that tolerating homosexuality as long as
it is closeted is not a policy of fairness. And, as the sixth
fundamental principle of  Olympism  has it: “Any form of
discrimination with regard to a country or a person on grounds
of race, religion, politics, gender or otherwise is incompatible
with belonging to the Olympic Movement.”  In their desire to get on with preparations for the games,
IOC officials may think it best to downplay their ability to
influence the politics of host countries. But given that
governments often host the Olympics in order to improve their
reputations, the committee wields considerable power.  IOC pressure on  South Korea ’s military dictatorship  helped
bring about  democratic elections before the 1988 Summer Games in
 Seoul . Ahead of the 2008 Beijing Olympics, the IOC pressed  China 
to drop its law requiring foreign journalists to get government
permission before interviewing Chinese citizens.  Now, the IOC should be telling Russia to revoke its anti-gay law in order to conform with the Olympic Charter and remain
the host of the  Winter Games . As the committee has so far shown
no such inclination, sponsors of the Olympics and television
networks that plan to cover the event ought to push. Otherwise,
come February, they may find themselves in an embarrassing mess.  The Russians already have used their new law to  deport
Dutch filmmakers  for trying to make a documentary about gay
rights in Russia. If openly gay New Zealand speed skater Blake
Skjellerup talks about a boyfriend in an interview with NBC,
will that crew be deported as well? To avoid the risk, will
broadcasters evade the whole subject of homosexuality? That
would make them complicit in Russia’s discriminatory policies.  Unless the IOC acts, sponsors such as Coca-Cola Co.,
McDonald’s Corp. and Visa Inc. will be tied to an officially
anti-gay Olympics.  Russian authorities have said they will enforce the law on
the games’ participants and spectators. Perhaps they will put up
with female Russian athletes smooching on the medal dais,  as
they did  at the recent IAAF World Athletics Championships in
Moscow. Or with  rainbows painted  on Swedish competitors’
fingernails. Perhaps they will not.  In any case, it’s not enough to carve out a discrimination-free zone for the Olympic village. The law should be revoked
altogether.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 