-- North Sea Rig Operators to Meet After Helicopter Accident
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-08-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/north-sea-rig-operators-to-meet-after-helicopter-accident.html
Oil & Gas UK, which represents North
Sea oil-and-gas operators, will meet today to discuss the
implications of the temporary suspension of Super Puma
helicopters following a crash in which four people died off the
north  Scotland  coast.  The AS332L2 helicopter carrying 16 oil workers and two crew
plunged into the water near the Shetland Islands on Aug. 23.
Three bodies were recovered in the aftermath of the crash, while
a fourth was removed from the wreckage yesterday.  The helicopter was operated by CHC Helicopter Corp. for  oil
company   Total SA (FP)  to transport workers from the Borgsten Dolphin
platform. Following the crash, CHC said it had “temporarily
suspended” all global operations of the aircraft until more
information was available.’  “CHC will not enter into any speculation as to what caused
the incident but rest assured a full investigation will be
carried out in which we will co-operate fully with all the
regulatory bodies and share any learnings with the industry,”
the company’s Western  North Sea  Regional Director Mark Abbey
said in an e-mailed statement.  An industry safety group yesterday recommended the
temporary suspension of all Super Puma commercial passenger
flights to and from offshore oil and gas installations within
the U.K., excluding the use of search and rescue helicopters for
emergency response.  ‘Cautious Approach’  The helicopter safety steering group of Step Change in
Safety, which was set up by oil and gas industry trade
associations to cut U.K. offshore injuries, met yesterday to
discuss the crash.  “The Super Puma series of helicopters includes the
following variants; AS332 L, L1, L2 and EC225,” the HSSG said
in a statement on its website. “There are significant technical
differences between these variants; however, until more is
understood on cause of the accident, this cautious approach is
appropriate.  ‘‘HSSG will closely monitor the situation and will only
recommend resumption of flights by one or more of the Super Puma
variants when it considers that sufficient factual information
is available to support the decision.’’  The Super Puma is made by the Eurocopter unit of  European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)   ‘‘We all at Eurocopter are deeply saddened by this
accident,’’ the company’s Chief executive Office Guillaume Faury
told the  BBC . ‘‘This is a tragedy for all of us. We express our
deepest sympathies to the families, friends and colleagues of
those who lost their lives. Our thoughts are with all those
affected, including the workforce in the North Sea.’’  Scotland’s police force named the crash victims as Duncan
Munro, 46, from Bishop Auckland, Sarah Darnley, 45, from Elgin,
Gary McCrossan, 59, from Inverness and George Allison, 57, from
Winchester.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  