-- Norway Election Could Break Deadlock on Lofoten Oil Drilling
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-08-26T09:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/norway-election-seen-breaking-deadlock-on-lofoten-oil-drilling.html
Norway’s election outcome next month
is poised to end a deadlock over oil drilling off the shores of
its protected Lofoten islands.  Oil companies  including  Statoil ASA (STL)  have said opening up
the waters, which may hold 3.4 billion barrels of oil
equivalent, is essential to replacing falling output in western
 Europe ’s biggest exporter. Opposition by the junior partners in
the governing Labor-led coalition has so far blocked the area to
explorers. The Conservative and Progress parties, which look set
to form a coalition government, are both in favor.  A minority government of the Conservatives and the Progress
Party, supported in parliament by the two other opposition
groups, is the most probable outcome, said Frank Aarebrot, a
political science professor at the University of Bergen. Such a
government could rely on Labor to push through an impact study
as a first step toward exploration, he said. Labor favors such a
study, which was blocked by its government partners in 2011.  If the opposition wins, “the probability of an impact
study rises significantly, whatever the  Christian Democrats  and
Liberals say,” Aarebrot said, referring to the two smaller
opposition parties, in a phone interview.  Falling Production  Norway’s crude production will fall for a 13th consecutive
year in 2013 to less than half a 2000 peak because of dwindling
output from aging fields in the  North Sea . The country partly
finances its welfare state through oil revenue that feeds the
world’s largest sovereign fund, holding $751 billion in foreign
stocks, bonds and real estate.  “We need to produce more to maintain output,” Siri
Meling, the Conservative energy spokeswoman, said by phone on
Aug. 22. “There’s enormous value there and it’s important to
extract it. It’s also important for the development of the
region.”  Polls point to electoral victory for  Norway ’s four
opposition parties, led by Conservative leader Erna Solberg. The
opposition also includes the Liberal Party and the Christian
Democrats, which are against opening Lofoten to oil exploration.
The Conservatives and the Progress Party were backed by 28.4
percent and 14.4 percent, respectively, in an average of three
polls for newspapers Verdens Gang and Dagbladet, and broadcaster
TV2, between Aug. 24 and Aug. 26.  ‘Most Important’  The Liberals and Christian Democrats, at 4.8 percent and
5.4 percent in the average of those polls, both said it’s
“unlikely” they would participate in a government including
the Progress Party because of its anti-immigration stance.  In the event that the Conservatives form a government with
the Liberals and Christian Democrats, they may need to make
concessions on Lofoten.  “This is the most important issue,”  Liberal Party  deputy
leader Ola Elvestuen said by phone last week. “The goal is to
join a government that won’t open Lofoten, Vesteraalen and
Senja,” he said, referring to two other protected areas off
Norway’s coast.  The smaller parties also say that preserving Lofoten would
make economic sense, helping ease pressure on Europe’s second-richest economy as investments in the oil and gas industry are
expected to rise by almost a quarter to a record 211 billion
kroner in 2013, according to Norway’s statistics bureau.  The areas off Lofoten, Vesteraalen and Senja are home to
the world’s biggest cold-water coral reef as well as mainland
Europe’s biggest seabird colony, according to the World Wildlife
Fund. It’s also a breeding ground for 70 percent of all fish
caught in the Norwegian and Barents Seas, as well as sperm
whales and seals.  If the Liberals and Christian Democrats gather enough
support on election day, “this is an issue I’m almost convinced
we can win,” said Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, a spokesman on
environmental policy for the Christian Democrats. “It’s a
fundamental issue. It’s about managing God’s creation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  