-- Hollande Bids Adieu to EU Vacation Culture as Crisis Lingers
-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-08-26T11:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/hollande-bids-adieu-to-eu-vacation-culture-as-crisis-lingers.html
European leaders are saying goodbye
to the extended vacations that were a continental norm until the
global crisis broke out in high summer six years ago.  As the region’s economy labors to solidify its recovery,
French President  Francois Hollande  has barely taken any time off
and ordered his cabinet members to stay within commuting
distance of Paris. Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta ensured
that either he or his deputy would be in Rome all through
August. And in Greece, the epicenter of the euro crisis, Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras took just four days off and even then
found time to fire the head of the state asset sales fund.  Their willingness to forgo a lengthy summer vacation, a
mainstay of European life, comes six years after a phone call
from Frankfurt shattered former  European Central Bank  President
Jean-Claude Trichet’s holiday in northern  France . The caller
informed him that three troubled BNP Paribas SA hedge funds were
causing money markets to seize up, the first signal that a
global financial crisis was breaking out.  “The crisis has reinforced the trend toward far shorter
vacations for European leaders,” Fredrik Erixon, director of
the European Centre for International Political Economy in
Brussels, said in a phone interview. “There’s also an emerging
sense among voters, fueled by the crisis, that they have a right
to judge their leaders on things like holidays.”  New Frugality  The new-found frugality contrasts with the largesse
displayed by European leaders in decades gone by. Throughout
most of his 16-year tenure as chancellor, Germany’s  Helmut Kohl 
took a four-week summer break, usually at Wolfgangsee, a lake in
 Austria . Former French President  Jacques Chirac  stayed on
vacation in  Quebec  during a French heat wave in the summer of
2003 that killed more than 11,000 people over two weeks.  That culture was blown apart by the credit crisis, which
made BlackBerrys and laptops as indispensable a part of any
vacation as sandals and sunglasses.  Hollande, who is planning to announce an overhaul of the
French pension system and government spending cuts in September,
took a one-week break at  Chateau Lanterne , a government owned
villa about a 20 minute drive from Paris.  “A period of rest without being a rupture,” Hollande
instructed his ministers Aug. 2 at their last meeting before
their two-week break.  In 2007, Trichet fired the opening salvo in the battle
against the crisis with a fax machine at his holiday home that
he used to issue missives to officials in Frankfurt. In August
2008, officials spent much of their vacations watching their
mobile devices in the weeks leading up to the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Cutting Vacation  In 2011, markets tumbled after a summit in late July failed
to convince investors about European leaders’ readiness to
address the euro crisis’s root causes, forcing Spanish Prime
Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  to return to work earlier
than planned. In 2012, ECB officials spent the month engaging in
shuttle diplomacy as President  Mario Draghi  put together a bond
purchase plan that would underpin the ailing euro.  “Leaders don’t want to be seen lounging on a distant beach
or sitting on the terrace of a swanky hotel,” said Spyros Economides, a senior lecturer at the  London School of Economics 
and deputy director of the LSE’s Hellenic Observatory. “Voters
do comment when leaders go on vacation. It used to be tongue in
cheek but no more.”  An Example  The question for European leaders trying to set an example
is whether there is anyone around to listen to them even if they
do curtail their vacations. Parliaments are shut down and civil
servants use that as opportunity to take their own vacation.
Officials in the French Finance Ministry typically have a total
of 45 vacation days per year. German civil servants in Berlin
get 30 days.  “The irony is that it’s very difficult to actually work,”
said  Laurent Dubois , professor at the Institute of Political
Studies in Paris. “Parliament is in recess so no bills can be
passed. So a leader wants to show action but it ends up being
mostly words because it’s difficult to act.”  In Berlin, the glass and concrete-walled cafeteria in
parliament’s biggest new building,  Jakob-Kaiser-Haus , is two
thirds empty for the six-week period when the capital’s schools
shut. The Bundestag, parliament’s lower house, closed for an
extended 12-week recess before Germany’s Sept. 22 elections.  Chancellor Angela Merkel , on a battle footing as she seeks
a third term, opted for a two-and-a-half-week  break  at the
Richard Wagner festival in Bayreuth and hiking in the Italian
Alps, a one-hour flight from Berlin.  Four Holidays  Some European leaders are nevertheless insisting that they
are still entitled to generous breaks. Since May, U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  has taken four holidays, including a
visit to  Spain , two weeks in  Portugal  and a trip to the Scottish
island of Jura. Cameron today cut short a vacation in Cornwall,
southwest England, to return to London to deal with the emerging
crisis in Syria.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  went to the U.S.
this year and London Mayor  Boris Johnson , who was 4,000 miles
(6,440 kilometers) away in Canada when riots broke out two years
ago, this year vacationed on the other side of the world, in
Australia.  Cameron’s office, asked about the vacations, cited his
reply from 2011 that “the pressures on your diary and time are
massive, so you have to try to make sure your diary is arranged
in a way that lets you have some normal life.”  Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  took four weeks off
in July, including a three-week road trip in the U.S. with his
family, sampling beers at micro-breweries, he told reporters on
Aug. 6.  Crisis Quiets  Even though this summer is the quietest for European crisis
fighters in six years, rising unemployment and the advent of
social media such as Twitter nevertheless means that even those
leaders still taking extended breaks may struggle to do so for
much longer, said Dubois.  The  unemployment rate  across the 17-nation euro area is at
12.1 percent, with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development predicting the rates for Spain and Greece are set to
rise to about 28 percent by the end of next year.  While the region exited its longest-ever recession in the
second quarter, the European Central Bank predicts that the
bloc’s economy will shrink 0.6 percent in all of 2013.  “ Winston Churchill  used to take weeks or months of
vacation and do his painting and drink large amounts of
alcohol,” said Erixon. “Those days are long over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net  