-- ONGC May Raise Overseas Debt for $2.64 Billion Purchase
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y ,   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-08-26T12:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/ongc-agrees-to-pay-2-64-billion-for-anadarko-gas-field-stake.html
ONGC (ONGC)  Videsh Ltd., a unit of  India ’s
biggest energy explorer, will probably raise debt overseas to
fund its entire $2.64 billion purchase of a 10 percent stake in
a Mozambique  gas field  from  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)   “It’s a project where earnings will be in dollars,
spending in dollars and hence we want the liabilities to be in
dollars as well,” ONGC Videsh Managing Director D.K. Sarraf
said in an interview. “The impact of the dollar funding could
help avoid the impact of a fluctuating rupee.”  ONGC is leading India’s push to get access to oil and
natural gas reserves around the world with $6.14 billion of
deals this year as a growing population and industrialization
drives up energy demand in Asia’s third-biggest economy. Funding
the acquisition with overseas debt will help ONGC skirt the
effect of a sinking rupee, which has dropped 14.17 percent this
year, the worst decline among its Asian peers.  The acquisition, subject to approvals in Mozambique and
India, will add to Oil & Natural Gas Corp.’s interest in Rovuma
Area 1, after it joined with  Oil India Ltd. (OINL)  in June to buy a 10
percent stake for $2.5 billion from  Videocon Industries Ltd. (VCLF) 
State-run Bharat Petroleum Corp. owns 10 percent stake in the
field, taking Indian ownership to 30 percent, the biggest group.  “The valuation is fair and there’s synergy as the Indian
group will control a large part of the field and can bring some
of the gas back home,” said Gagan Dixit, a Mumbai-based analyst
with Quant Broking Pvt., who has a buy rating on ONGC. “India
could become Mozambique’s biggest market for its gas.”  Share Performance  ONGC  fell  3.1 percent to 268.05 rupees in Mumbai today, the
biggest decline in a week. The shares are little changed this
year, compared with a 4.5 percent drop in the benchmark  S&P BSE
Sensex. (SENSEX)  Anadarko rose 0.6 percent to $89.80 in  New York  on Aug.
23, taking its gain for the year to 21 percent.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch was ONGC’s financial adviser.  The field will supply gas to a liquefaction plant that “is
strategically located to supply LNG to India at a competitive
price,” ONGC said today in  statement . The New Delhi-based
company and its units plan to spend 11 trillion rupees ($171
billion) by 2030 to add reserves in India and overseas and
reverse a drop in output from aging fields at home.  “The acquisition is strategic because it give us access to
a lot of LNG which can be brought to India,” Sarraf said.
“It’s a big step toward India’s energy security.”  Rovuma Potential  The Rovuma Area 1 has the potential to become one of the
world’s largest LNG projects, ONGC said in the statement. At a
planned capacity of 20 million tons annually, the Mozambique
project could be the world’s largest LNG export site after Ras
Laffan in  Qatar , where  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is a partner.  Anadarko, which will remain the operator of Area 1 with a
26.5 percent stake, said the deal “values our pre-transaction
interest at more than $9.6 billion,” according to a separate
statement from The Woodlands, Texas, based company. The company
will use cash from the sale to boost development at its U.S.
onshore projects as well as the  Gulf of Mexico , according to the
statement.  Anadarko and  Eni SpA (ENI)  have been leading efforts to convert
gas from the Indian Ocean fields in Mozambique to liquid and
transport it to nations including India via tankers. Liquefied
natural gas plants need billions of dollars in investment to
chill the gas to a liquid and ship it using tankers.  Prominent Destination  The East African country has become a prominent destination
for energy investment, especially by Asian companies, as it
looks to develop the largest natural-gas discovery in a decade.  The scale of the reserves means significant spending by the
blocks’ owners will be needed to construct export infrastructure.
Building the necessary rigs, pipelines and export terminals
could require $50 billion in investment, Mozambique’s mining
minister said last year.  The east African country, with a per capita gross domestic
product lower than that of Rwanda, has limited experience
managing large-scale resource projects and is still building key
ports and railway links.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  earlier this year wrote
down 70 percent of its investment in Mozambique’s coal sector
because of insufficient transport capacity and a drop in coal
prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in  Hong Kong  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  