-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Brevan Howard, FOMC Minutes, Repo Market
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-08-25T03:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/most-read-on-bloomberg-brevan-howard-fomc-minutes-repo-market.html
The following list comprises the
most-read  Bloomberg News  reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. Brevan Howard Traders Said to Depart as Fund Posts June Loss  Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Two Brevan Howard Asset Management
LLP credit traders left in recent weeks, as the firm scales back
after its biggest hedge fund had the worst monthly loss since
2008 in June, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  2. FOMC Minutes Highlight Bernanke’s Taper Plan Has Broad
Support  Aug. 22 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve policy makers
considering when to reduce bond buying were “broadly
comfortable” with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to taper this
year if the economy strengthens, with a few saying a reduction
may be needed soon, minutes of their last meeting show.  3. Repo Market Decline Raises Alarm as Regulation Strains Debt  Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Regulations aimed at reducing the
risk of another financial crisis are starting to upend a key
part of the  bond market  that expedites trading in everything
from Treasuries to  junk bonds .  4. Goldman’s Options Error Shows Peril Persists After Knight  Aug. 21 (Bloomberg) -- For all the efforts to shore up
electronic markets in the aftermath of one of America’s biggest
trading catastrophes, yesterday’s options malfunction by Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. shows the dangers haven’t gone away.  5. Goldman Managing Director Lee Charged With East Hampton Rape  Aug. 23 (Bloomberg) -- A Goldman Sachs Group Inc. managing
director was arrested and charged with first-degree rape after
he was accused of sexually assaulting a 20-year-old woman at a
home on  Long Island , New York.  6. U.S. Stocks Halt Global Rout as Treasuries Gain; Dollar
Weakens  Aug. 20 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks rose, snapping a four-day slump and halting a global slide, as retailers gained after
reporting better-than-estimated earnings. Ten-year Treasury
yields retreated from the highest levels since 2011 and the
dollar weakened.  7. Bank of America Says 21-Year-Old London Summer Intern Dies  Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Bank of America Corp. said a 21-year-old intern died one week before completing a summer
program.  8. Nasdaq Halts Trading in Stocks, Options Amid Computer Error  Aug. 22 (Bloomberg) -- Computer breakdowns shook American
equity markets again today as malfunctioning software that feeds
data between exchanges prompted Nasdaq Stock Market to halt
trading in thousands of stocks and options.  9. Capital Flows Back to U.S. as Markets Slump Across  Asia :
Economy  Aug. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Asia’s role as the world’s growth
engine is waning as economies across the region weaken and
investors pull out billions of dollars.  10. Abandoned Dogs Roam Detroit’s Streets in Packs as Humans
Dwindle  Aug. 21 (Bloomberg) -- As many as 50,000 stray dogs roam
the streets and vacant homes of bankrupt Detroit, replacing
residents, menacing humans who remain and overwhelming the
city’s ability to find them homes or peaceful deaths.  COLUMNS  1. Love Your Job? Thank the Country Where You Live: Edmund
Phelps  Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- It is widely assumed that people in
economically “advanced” countries do not differ significantly
in how satisfied they are with their jobs. Because they are
about equally productive, the reasoning is, they must produce
things the same way, and so their work experience must be the
same, too.  2. All  Miami Dolphins  Should Have Gone to See Obama:  Stephen
Carter   Aug. 22 (Bloomberg) -- In 1903, President  Theodore
Roosevelt  invited naturalist John Muir, founder of the  Sierra
Club , to be his guide for his famous camping trip through
Yosemite National Park. Muir was about to decline when a friend
warned him that one must always accept the president’s
invitation. Muir was offended by this notion, because it seemed
to treat the president like a king. In the end, Muir decided to
make the journey after all: “I suppose I shouldn’t refuse just
because he happens to be president,” he said.  3. Has Eric Holder Found Wall Street’s Nightmare?: Jonathan Weil  Aug. 23 (Bloomberg) -- Why didn’t the U.S. Justice
Department get someone like Leslie Caldwell years ago when it
needed her?  4. Raising Kids? Then Your Taxes Are Far Too High:  Ramesh
Ponnuru   Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Would-be tax reformers on  Capitol
Hill  are taking a “blank slate” approach to the issue.  Dave
Camp  and  Max Baucus , the House Republican and Senate Democrat in
charge of the tax-law committees, say that every tax break is on
death row unless a strong case can be made for it.  5. A Cancer by Any Other Name Is More Accurate:  Virginia Postrel   Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- You’re feeling fine when you go for
your annual physical. But your mammogram looks a little funny,
or your PSA test is a little high, or you get a CT lung scan and
a nodule shows up. You get a biopsy, and the doctor delivers the
bad news: You have cancer. Because you don’t want to die, you
agree to be sliced up and irradiated. Then, fortunately, you’re
pronounced a “cancer survivor.” You’re glad they caught it
early.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Greenwich Stilt Houses Portend Impact of New Flood Maps  Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Some homeowners in Greenwich,
Connecticut, are raising their houses on stilts after the U.S.
government issued new flood insurance maps in the wake of
 Hurricane Sandy .  2. Abandoned Dogs Roam Detroit’s Streets as Humans Dwindle  Aug. 21 (Bloomberg) -- Thousands of stray dogs roam the
streets and vacant homes of bankrupt Detroit, replacing
residents, menacing people who remain and overwhelming the
city’s ability to find them homes or peaceful deaths.  3. McLaren MP4-12C Spider Pushes Speed, Slings Corners  Aug. 22 (Bloomberg) -- The McLaren MP4-12C Spider is seen
in a promotional video from McLaren Automotive Ltd.  4. Detroit Dominated by Pitbulls as Dogs Roam Free  Aug. 21 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg News’  Hans Nichols  reports
that Detroit’s streets are overrun with up to 50,000 stray dogs
as the city faces declining public works funds due to
bankruptcy.  5. Rodriguez Hits Homer After Being Hit as Yankees Beat Red Sox  Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) --  Alex Rodriguez  was hit by a pitch in
his first at-bat and later belted a home run as the  New York
Yankees  beat the  Red Sox  9-6 in the finale of a three-game
series at Fenway Park in Boston last night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in New York at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  