-- Rapid U.S. Growth Is Missing, Not Gone Forever
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2013-08-25T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/rapid-u-s-growth-is-missing-not-gone-forever.html
We are now about five years into the
deleveraging, and the related slow global growth, that followed
the 2008 financial crisis. My forecast is for another five years
of unwinding the excess borrowing by banks worldwide, U.S.
consumers and many other sectors.  The private sector deleveraging has been so severe that it
overwhelms all the federal tax cuts and spending increases
undertaken in response to the  recession , as well as the central
bank interest-rate cuts and quantitative easing that piled up
immense excess member-bank reserves at the  Federal Reserve .  If you need proof of the drag of deleveraging, look no
further than the subpar 2.2 percent average real gross domestic
product growth in the recovery that started in the second
quarter of 2009 and the 1.7 percent growth in the second quarter
of this year.  Most forecasters, however, initially thought that after the
very deep 2007-2009 recession, the recovery would be equally
robust. After all, that had been the norm. In the 15 quarters of
this economic recovery, through the first quarter of this year,
real GDP has risen 8.1 percent. Excluding the recovery after the
1980 recession that only lasted one year, the only other
recovery this weak was the 7.5 percent gain after the 1973-1975
recession.  Salad Days  Most forecasters also yearned for the 3.7 percent average
growth of the 1982 to 2000 salad days, when the economy was
driven by declining inflation and falling interest rates as well
as the consumer borrowing-and-spending binge that drove the
household saving rate to about 1 percent from 12 percent in the
early 1980s. Furthermore, that was an era of business
restructuring, and as a result, stocks soared.  Nevertheless, as slow economic growth persisted in this
recovery, many seers joined me in forecasting continuing slow
growth rates of about 2 percent. They cited many of the causes
discussed in my recent book, “The Age of Deleveraging:
Investment Strategies for a Decade of Slow Growth and
Deflation.” Among them are the shift by U.S. consumers from
borrowing and spending to saving and financial deleveraging.
This trend was compounded by the aging of the population, rising
health-care costs,  growing income inequality , high government
debt and a faltering education system for many Americans.  Nevertheless, any phenomenon that lasts long enough
generates theories that it will last forever. The average real
GDP of just 2.2 percent since the recovery started, and of only
1.6 percent over the last 12 years, has spawned a number of such
theories.  Harvard University economists  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff , authors of the 2009 book “This Time Is Different: Eight
Centuries of Financial Folly,” suggested in a 2010 paper that
when central government debt exceeds 90 percent of GDP, the
economy contracts at a 0.1 percent annual rate. Their findings
became gospel.  In a 2011 speech to the  Council on Foreign Relations  in  New
York , the European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said: “Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth
Rogoff have coined the 90 percent rule. Huge debt levels can
crowd out economic activity and entrepreneurial dynamism, and
thus hamper growth. This conclusion is particularly relevant at
a time when debt levels in  Europe  are now approaching the 90
percent threshold, which the U.S. has already passed.”  I’ve argued that net debt, or borrowing from outsiders, is
the important metric, not the gross amount that also includes
borrowing and lending among government divisions. But let’s not
quibble. Even on a net basis, U.S.  federal government debt  is
almost 90 percent of GDP.  Stagnation’s Trap  Glenn Hubbard , dean of the  Columbia Business School  and a
former chairman of the  Council of Economic Advisers , and Tim Kane, chief economist of the Hudson Institute, in their new
book, “Balance: The Economics of Great Powers From Ancient Rome
to Modern America,” express even more basic concerns. They say
great powers fall into the trap of “denying the internal nature
of stagnation, centralizing power and shortchanging the future
to overspend on their present.”  They see “the storm clouds of history” gathering on the
horizon because of the U.S.’s political inertia, anti-growth
policies, the erosion of economic vigor and, especially, excess
 government spending .  Niall Ferguson , a Scottish historian who teaches at Harvard
and is a fellow at the  Hoover Institution , joins in with his new
book, “The Great Degeneration.” He thinks government
encroachment is strangling private initiative, especially in the
U.S., threatening representative government, the free market,
the rule of law and civil society. He focuses on the explosion
of public debt in the U.S. as well as in Europe, the destruction
of free markets by excessive regulation and the rule of law
being replaced by the “rule of lawyers,” exemplified by
complicated laws such as the 2,700-page first draft of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Ferguson worries that the U.S. civil society, with its many
volunteer organizations that impressed Alexis de Tocqueville in
the 1830s, is being replaced by the nanny state that promises
cradle-to-grave security.  Then there’s Robert J. Gordon of  Northwestern University 
who thinks that the big growth-driven technologies are fully
exploited. He cites past marvels such as Thomas Edison’s
electric light bulb (1879) and power station (1882), which led
to other innovations, such as consumer appliances and elevators.
He sees nothing to rival the economic impact of the automobile,
the telephone, phonograph, motion pictures and radio, or the
post-World War II developments such as TV, air conditioning, jet
planes and the interstate highway system.  Computers and the Internet are essentially fully exploited,
he says, and as a result, the 2 percent annual output growth per
capita of the years from 1891 to 2007 are over. And with the
retiring postwar baby boomers leaving the workforce, America’s
lousy education system and growing  income inequality , real
yearly GDP growth of only 1 percent is likely and “the
overwhelming majority of Americans will see their incomes grow
just 0.5 percent annually.”  Government Support  Some of these very negative arguments for future economic
growth and structure have merit. Increased government regulation
and involvement in major economies does stifle innovation and
reduce efficiency and, therefore, economic growth. Then there’s
the growing percentage of Americans who depend on government at
some level for meaningful economic support -- from government
civilian and military jobs to  Social Security  to food stamps
recipients.  My company’s research shows that in 1950, 28.7 percent of
Americans received meaningful financial support from the
government. That share reached 52.4 percent in 1970 and jumped
to 58.2 percent in 2007. As the retiring baby boomers draw
Social Security and Medicare benefits, and with chronic high
unemployment pushing government job-creation efforts, I see the
total reaching 67.3 percent in 2018.  When more than half the population is receiving  government
aid , you might think there would be no end to the largesse they
would demand at the ballot box. But that 50 percent level was
breached by 1970, 43 years ago. The voters’ self-restraint
reflects the U.S. character of deep-seated self-sufficiency.
People apparently still believe that they can get further on
their own merit than by pushing government to redistribute
income in their favor.  None of the pessimists cited earlier expressed concerns
about the growing role of finance in the economy in the past 20
years, which has occurred to the detriment of education and
productivity-enhancement. Total  stock market capitalization  as a
percentage of GDP traditionally ran 40 percent to 60 percent,
but it exploded during the dot-com bubble in the 1990s, to 147
percent in the first quarter of 2000, exposing the degree to
which speculation and dreams of quick riches had supplanted
saving and serious investment. Investors told startups to burn
through their capital as fast as possible to build name
recognition, with no concern for profit prospects.  Grand Disconnect  After the dot-com collapse, the ratio fell to 73 percent,
still high. The housing bubble, another nonproductive investment
area, propelled it to 109 percent in the second quarter of 2007.
The housing collapse caused another decline, but the market
capitalization-to-GDP ratio has since revived to 107 percent
amid what I call the Grand Disconnect. Investors, at least until
the last month or so, have had no concern for the reality of
most economies, which are limping along at best, and were
focused instead on the Fed pumping out money through
quantitative easing.  The still-high ratio of stock market capitalization to GDP
suggests that speculation remains preferable to productive work
or investment. Many on  Wall Street  still seem to view it as an
adversarial trading arena where the objective is to obtain money
at the expense of others. Such get-rich-quick hopes aren’t new,
but the idea that the financial sector exists to grease the
wheels of commerce and not as an end in itself seems to have
largely disappeared.  Another way of looking at the increasing role of finance
for its own sake is the declining dollars of GDP associated with
each dollar of new debt in the entire economy. Of course, this
ratio, like any statistic, doesn’t prove causality.
Nevertheless, in the 1947-1952 years, each new dollar in debt in
the entire economy was associated with a $4.62 increase in GDP.
Recently, that figure has dropped to 9 cents because derivatives
and other layers of financing do little to promote economic
growth.  Yet, even with all these caveats, I disagree with the long-term pessimists who, in this age of deleveraging and persistent
slow growth, find increasing acceptance. I’ll discuss why I lean
toward a return to rapid U.S. economic growth in the longer run
in my next column.  (A. Gary Shilling is a Bloomberg View columnist and
president of A. Gary Shilling & Co. He is the author of “The
Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies for a Decade of Slow
Growth and Deflation.” This is the first in a three-part
series. Read  Part 2 .)  To contact the writer of this column:
Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 