-- Trump Institute Accused of Fraud by N.Y. Attorney General
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-08-25T19:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/trump-institute-accused-of-fraud-by-n-y-attorney-general.html
Donald Trump  was sued by  New York 
Attorney General Eric Schneiderman over claims the billionaire
operated a fraudulent online educational institute that swindled
students out of $40 million.  Trump University, now known as the Trump Entrepreneur
Initiative, operated as an unlicensed educational institution
and misled students with promises that they would gain real
estate investing expertise, according a copy of the petition
provided by Schneiderman’s office. Yesterday’s filing wasn’t
immediately available from New York  Supreme Court  in  Manhattan .  Students paid as much as $35,000 for the institute’s
programs, purportedly taught by experts “handpicked” by Trump,
according to the petition. Trump didn’t select the instructors,
many of whom didn’t have real-estate backgrounds or had recently
sought bankruptcy because of their real estate investing
failures, Schneiderman’s office alleged.  After being told that they would recoup the cost of the
programs within a few months, many students were unable to
conclude even one real estate deal, according to the petition.  “Mr. Trump used his celebrity status and personally
appeared in commercials making false promises to convince people
to spend tens of thousands of dollars they couldn’t afford for
lessons they never got,” Schneiderman said today in a
statement.  5,000 Students  Trump, the New York-based Trump Organization Inc. and a
former president of the institute are accused of running an
unlicensed educational institution from 2005 through 2011. More
than 5,000 students, including 600 in New York, paid for the
educational programs, according to the petition.  Amanda Miller , a Trump Organization spokeswoman, referred
questions to www.98percentapproval.com, a website devoted to
criticism of the attorney general.  Surveys show that “98 percent of Trump University students
rated the program ‘excellent’ while only 4 percent of New York
State registered voters rated Attorney General Eric
Schneiderman’s performance as ‘excellent’,” according to the
site. “Schneiderman thinks he could be the next governor? He
must be joking.”  The case is Schneiderman v. The Trump Entrepreneur
Initiative LLC, 400965-2012, Supreme Court of the State of New
York, County of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Brooklyn, New York at  csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  