-- S. Africa Grocers at Cheapest in 3 Years With on Profit
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-08-25T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/s-africa-grocers-at-cheapest-in-3-years-with-on-profit.html
South African grocers are trading at
the  lowest premium  to the nation’s benchmark stocks index in
three years as consumers struggle to repay debt as unemployment
rises and accelerating  inflation (SACPIYOY)  curbs profit growth.  The FTSE/JSE  Africa  Food & Drug Retailers Index has
declined 18 percent this year through Aug. 23 to trade at 22
times earnings. The 166-member  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
has gained 10 percent for a price-to-earnings ratio of 20. That
cut the gauge’s premium over the all-share to 12 percent on Aug.
23, the lowest since Aug. 24, 2010, after being valued at more
than double the benchmark in June 2012.  “The consumer environment has become tougher,” Diane Laas, an equity analyst at Cape Town-based Investec Asset
Management, which manages the equivalent of $105 billion, said
by phone Aug. 22. “The earnings growth outlook for food
retailers is looking slower.”  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) , Africa’s largest food retailer, is
battling the worst sales growth in its main South African market
in two years as the continent’s biggest  economy  expands at the
slowest pace since a 2009 recession. Unemployment in the nation
of 52 million people increased to 25.6 percent in the second
quarter, the highest in two years, compared with 24.9 percent a
year earlier. Inflation breached the upper end of the central
bank’s target range for the first time in 15 months in July,
cutting into consumers’ disposable income.  Almost 48 percent of “credit-active” South African
consumers, or 9.53 million people, had impaired debt records at
the end of June, while about a quarter of 71 million credit
accounts weren’t been paid for three months or more, according
to the Johannesburg-based National Credit Regulator.  Share Slump  The stock of Cape Town-based Shoprite has decreased 20
percent this year to trade at 24 times profit.  Massmart Holdings
Ltd. (MSM) , the local unit of the world’s biggest retailer Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., fell to its lowest in almost two years last week
after saying first-half profit declined.  Shoprite is expanding outside its home market, where sales
from 153 stores in 16 African countries jumped 28 percent in the
fiscal year through June, the company said Aug. 20. A further 20
stores are due to open by June next year and an additional 27
thereafter.  The company trades at a premium to the all-share index
because of its African expansion, Jean Pierre Verster, who helps
to oversee the equivalent of $800 million at 36ONE Asset
Management, said by phone from Johannesburg on Aug. 22.  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. ,  South Africa ’s second-largest food
retailer, trades at 34 times  earnings , the highest on the four-member food and drug index, even after a 16 percent-slump in its
stock this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Anticipated Recovery  Pick n Pay plans to cut management jobs to reduce operating
costs after annual net income plunged 51 percent, the Cape Town-based company said Aug. 7, as it lost market share to
competitors, including Shoprite.  Richard Brasher , the former
head of Tesco Plc’s U.K. unit, started as chief executive
officer in February to lead a sales-growth revival.  “Investors are prepared to pay more for an anticipated
recovery in the company’s profits,” Verster said. Brasher, 52,
said in April that he is “optimistic” the retailer can improve
the underlying margins of the business.  At Massmart, sales growth slowed to 8.9 percent in the 26
weeks through June 23 from 15 percent in the six months ending
Dec. 23, the Johannesburg-based company said Aug. 22. The stock,
which has slumped 19 percent this year, is trading at 22 times
estimated profit, the highest valuation on the 11-member
FTSE/JSE Africa General Retailers Index.  South Africa’s $384 billion  economy  is set to grow by 2
percent this year, according to the country’s central bank.
Strikes over pay increases at the mines of the world’s biggest
producer of platinum and fifth-largest gold miner have shaved
0.3 percent off the nation’s economic growth this year,
President  Jacob Zuma  said June 13.  “None of the macro-economic signs in South Africa point to
a respite soon,” Investec’s Laas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  