-- Schaeuble Says Debt-Cut Talk Led Him to Make Greek Aid Comment
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-08-25T17:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/schaeuble-says-debt-cut-talk-led-him-to-make-greek-aid-comment.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said remarks that Greece would need another debt cut
prompted him to say this week that the cash-strapped country
will receive another aid program.  “The debate that there will be a new debt cut was
dangerous” as it could have fanned the euro region’s debt
crisis after promises that the the first cut was unique,
Schaeuble told visitors to his ministry’s open day in Berlin.  “You could have a problem somewhere in Malta, and interest
rates would rise in  Spain , and the economy goes down. That’s
something I wanted to avoid at all cost,” Schaeuble said.  At the same time, answers had to be given to questions on
whether  Greece  would need any fresh money, Schaeuble said. Even
dyed-in-the-wool members of his Christian Democratic Union party
had expressed concerns at party rallies that the government was
trying to hide aid requirements until after the German election
on Sept. 22, he said.  “I had to make clear that there won’t be a debt cut, but
that that doesn’t mean that nothing has to be done next year,”
Schaeuble said. “I wanted to avoid that anybody could say that
this government isn’t saying what it knows before the
election.”  Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told Athens-based
newspaper Proto Thema the country may need 10 billion euros
($13.4 billion) in aid. While another debt cut isn’t under
discussion, Greece will get more time to repay loans and lower
 interest rates  if it achieves a primary surplus, he said.  Additional Requirements  While declining to mention any figures, Schaeuble today
said the volume of the next aid program will be “much lower”
than previous ones and not all of Greece’s additional
requirements can come from the European Union’s so-called
structural funds.  Separately, Schaeuble said leaders and finance chiefs from
the Group of 20 will discuss in  St. Petersburg  next month how
monetary stimulus can be withdrawn and a return to positive
yields in some countries achieved without throwing economies
into disarray  “One has to weigh this very carefully,” Schaeuble said.
“How can we steer this thing so that the economy doesn’t fall
apart but the money markets still stabilize again, normalize
again, so you get one percent more interest on your savings
account than the rate of inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  