-- Scherzer Is First to Reach 19 MLB Wins After Duel With Harvey
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-08-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/scherzer-is-first-to-reach-19-mlb-wins-after-duel-with-harvey.html
Detroit’s Max Scherzer became the
first Major League Baseball pitcher to reach 19 wins this season
after leading the Tigers to a 3-0 victory in an All-Star rematch
with Matt Harvey of the  New York Mets .  Scherzer (19-1) allowed three hits and walked four while
striking out 11 batters in six innings last night at Citi Field
in New York. Joaquin Benoit recorded his 17th save, striking out
one in the ninth.  Scherzer joined Rube Marquard in 1912 and  Roger Clemens  in
2001 as the only major league pitchers to win 19 of their first
20 decisions in a season.  “I pitched well today but I didn’t pitch efficiently,”
Scherzer said. “I wasn’t quite as sharp as usual, but I thought
I made big pitches when I needed to and that was the most
important thing.”  Harvey (9-5) allowed two runs on 13 hits and struck out
four in 6 2/3 innings.  “Just a poor performance,” Harvey said. “I’m getting
pretty tired, but so is everybody and you have to work through
it.”  The Mets said this matchup marked the third time All-Star
starters faced each other on another occasion during the same
season, according to research by the Elias Sports Bureau. The
first two came in the  World Series , when Mets’  Dwight Gooden 
opposed Clemens and the  Boston Red Sox  in 1986, and Red Ruffing
of the  New York Yankees  pitched against Cincinnati’s Paul
Derringer in 1939.  Scherzer gave the tigers a lead with a run-scoring double
in the second inning, before Austin Jackson drove in a second
run. Jackson also scored on Don Kelly’s sacrifice fly in the
ninth.  “I’ve got a replay and I’m sending a text to everybody
right now,” Scherzer said. “It was definitely 96 (mph) down
and away, and I laced it for a double. I’m never going to shut
up. I’m just going to keep talking trash the whole time.”  The Tigers (76-53) lead the American League Central, six
games ahead of the Cleveland Indians. The Mets (58-69) are third
in the  National League East , 18 games behind the Atlanta Braves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  