-- Shanghai Exchange Mulls Circuit Breaker After Everbright Error
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-25T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/shanghai-exchange-mulls-circuit-breaker-after-everbright-error.html
The  Shanghai Stock Exchange  is
considering setting up a circuit-breaking mechanism as part of
efforts to avoid a repeat of a trading error on Aug. 16 that
triggered the biggest swing in its benchmark index since 2009.  The exchange will also study the possibility of allowing
the cancellation of trades during incidents similar to the
erroneous buy orders made by  Everbright Securities Co. (601788) , an
unidentified spokesman from the stock exchange said yesterday in
comments on its  Weibo , Sina Corp.’s Twitter-like microblogging
platform.  Everbright’s 23.4 billion yuan ($3.4 billion) of erroneous
buy orders caused the biggest swing in the  Shanghai  Composite
Index since 2009, threatening to further erode confidence in a
market that’s tumbled about 40 percent in the past four years.
The China Securities Regulatory Commission banned the firm from
proprietary trading for three months and pledged to examine
risks in brokerages’ trading systems to prevent such an error
from happening again.  The exchange is also looking into allowing a “T+0”
trading mechanism for the spot market, which allows investors to
buy and sell the same stock on the same day, to protect the
rights of small investors, according to the spokesman.  China currently operates a “T+1” trading mechanism in the
 spot market , which is dominated by retail investors, and a
“T+0” mechanism in the futures market that is traded mostly by
institutional investors.  Hedging Risk  Under the current system, most individual investors are
unable to minimize their losses in the event of a big decline in
the benchmark index by selling the stocks that they bought on
the same day, while large institutional investors are able to
mitigate their risk by hedging their positions on the futures
market, according to the spokesman.  The exchange will also supervise Everbright’s related
trading accounts to make sure the company fulfills its pledge
not to sell the stocks bought in the Aug. 16 incident before it
announces a plan to deal with the securities, the spokesman
said.  Everbright announced President Xu Haoming’s resignation
after suspending Yang Jianbo, who oversees the firm’s
proprietary trading as head of global markets.  The firm estimated that it lost 194 million  yuan  on the
trades, based on Aug. 16 closing prices, and said the figure may
change. The final trading loss could reach 400 million yuan,
according to Paddy Ran, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in  Hong
Kong .  Everbright’s A-shares traded in Shanghai fell 1.4 percent
to 9.84 yuan on Aug. 23, the lowest close since June 25. The
stock, which was suspended on Aug. 16 after the error, has
dropped 19 percent since trading resumed on Aug. 20.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  