-- Singapore-U.S. Trade High to Persist on Record FDI Level
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2013-08-25T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/singapore-u-s-trade-high-persists-on-record-fdi-southeast-asia.html
Singapore’s trade with the U.S. in
2013 will probably exceed $50 billion for a third year after the
nation attracted the most investment from American companies in
the Asia-Pacific region.  “U.S.-Singapore relations are generally at an all-time
high,” U.S. Ambassador to Singapore David Adelman said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. He gave the trade target for the
two countries, saying “ Southeast Asia  has become increasingly
important to American multi-national corporations as they
continue to increase their participation in the global
economy.”  U.S. foreign direct investment into Singapore rose 17
percent to $138.6 billion in 2012, higher than to Japan and
 Australia , according to data from the  Department of Commerce .
Singapore was the  first  Asian nation to sign a  free-trade
agreement  with the U.S. in 2003.  Ranked by the  World Bank  as the easiest place to do
business seven years in a row, Singapore offered incentives and
tax cuts to spur investment, luring U.S. companies from Google
Inc. to  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  to set up their regional operations on
the island. Singapore’s shipments to the U.S., one of its top
export destinations, rose for the first time in three months in
July as a recovery in the world’s biggest economy gains
traction.  Adelman will end his term next month and will be replaced
by  Kirk Wager , a Miami lawyer.  Deepening Ties  “I would see trade as continuing to grow as they deepen
their ties on the investment side,” said Leif Eskesen, chief
economist for  India  and Southeast Asia at HSBC Holdings Plc in
Singapore. The U.S. will probably “get back on its footing over
the next three to four years” and “export prospects from
Singapore into the U.S. will gradually improve,” he said.  U.S. retail sales rose in July for a fourth consecutive
month, showing American households are regaining momentum as
employment climbs. A pickup in  consumer spending , which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy, would help counter the
fiscal headwinds of government cutbacks that have held back
growth.  Pratt & Whitney , the jet-engine unit of United Technologies
Corp., is spending almost $110 million on two new facilities in
Singapore, including a 180,000-square-foot manufacturing plant
that’s scheduled to be completed in 2014, it said in a Jan. 31
 statement . The plan will boost its Singapore workforce to more
than 2,500 over the next five years.  Remaining Competitive  “Singapore’s thriving aerospace industry is mutually
beneficial to the U.S.,” William Kircher, vice president of
Pratt & Whitney’s Singapore overhaul and repair operations, said
in an e-mailed response to queries. “It is a hub for U.S.
exports and investment, and our presence in Singapore enables
the company to reinvest in innovative technology while remaining
competitive by performing the right work in the right places.”  The government is focusing on developing new sectors and
attracting investment while it restructures the economy to wean
companies off cheap foreign labor. Singapore’s  economy  grew 1.3
percent in 2012, the slowest in three years.  Singapore may be less attractive than its neighbors as
labor costs and property prices rise, according to  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist at Credit Suisse in Singapore.  Fewer Advantages  “The reason why U.S. and other foreigners like Singapore
is to gain access to the region,” Prior-Wandesforde said. “The
advantages of that have been reduced and will continue to fall
while other countries within the region are more open to foreign
direct investment and offer significant opportunities.”  Overall foreign direct investment into  Indonesia  rose 18.9
percent last quarter from a year earlier, government data showed
last month. The  Philippines  received $2.8 billion in 2012, and
Thailand got $8.6 billion, according to the World Bank.  Located at the southern end of the 600-mile (965-kilometer)
Malacca Strait, Singapore is home to one of the world’s busiest
container ports. The city was ranked first among 221 cities in a
survey of infrastructure by  Mercer International Inc. (MERC)  released
in 2012.  “U.S. firms are attracted by a strong and equitable legal
system, stability and consistency across government, a strong,
well-capitalized, and well regulated banking and financial
system, high intellectual property rights,” said Greg Tirrell,
 executive director  at Singapore’s  American Chamber of Commerce .  U.S. companies are increasing investments in banking,
energy, consumer products and aerospace, he said.  Regional Operations  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank, has about
10,000 employees after a threefold increase from 3,600 a decade
ago. The lender has regional operations in Singapore including
retail banking, private banking and treasury and trade services,
it said.  “Factors supporting our decision to locate our hubs here
include the established credit bureaus, regulatory bodies and
comprehensive dispute resolution options available,” Adam
Rahman, a Singapore-based Citigroup spokesman, said in an e-mail, where he also pointed to the country’s tax structure and
talent pool.  Singapore  is targeting as much as S$13 billion ($10.2
billion) of investment commitments in manufacturing and services
this year.  “Singapore, like every country around the world, has its
basket of challenges,” Adelman said. “It’s a small country and
small countries are always going to be challenged by their lack
of resources and by the importance of getting the policies
right, because the margins for error are much tighter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  