-- Sinopec Beats PetroChina as Refining Profit Boosts Net
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-08-26T10:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/sinopec-first-half-net-rises-24-as-refining-returns-to-profit.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ,
Asia’s biggest refiner, posted a 24 percent increase in first-half net income after its refining business returned to profit,
outperforming  PetroChina Co. (857)   Net income rose to 30.3 billion  yuan  ($4.95 billion), or
0.25 yuan a share, from 24.5 billion yuan, or 0.21 yuan, a year
earlier, the Beijing-based company, known as Sinopec, said
yesterday in a filing. The average of seven analyst estimates,
compiled by Bloomberg, was a profit of 31 billion yuan.  China’s government shortened the window for retail fuel-price adjustments to 10 days from 22 days in March, allowing
gasoline and diesel rates to more closely track Sinopec’s crude
costs. The company processed almost double what PetroChina
refined as better technology and modern refineries helped it
make a 200 million yuan profit from the business, compared with
a 18.5 billion yuan loss a year earlier.  “Sinopec’s sophisticated refining technologies and good
cost control allowed it to stay afloat,” Shi Yan, an analyst at
UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in  Shanghai , said by phone yesterday. “It
will have a very good third quarter and second half as long as
the government sticks to its promise of allowing domestic fuel
prices to track international crude prices closely.”  PetroChina’s refining loss narrowed to 7.8 billion yuan
from 23.3 billion yuan a year earlier. Asia’s largest company by
market capitalization processed 67.5 million metric tons of oil,
compared with Sinopec’s 115.4 million tons.  Sinopec expects its refining business to continue to
improve in the second half of the year, Chairman Fu Chengyu said
at a press briefing in Hong Kong today.  Shares Gain  Sinopec shares  rose  1.9 percent to HK$5.83 at the close in
Hong Kong. The stock has fallen 14 percent this year, compared
with a 2.9 percent  decline  in the city’s benchmark Hang Seng
index.  Sinopec has honed its refining business to increase
efficiency and reduce costs, while PetroChina, which is more
focused on oil and gas production, hasn’t given the business
enough attention, UOB’s Shi said.  China ’s price regulator cut retail fuel prices by about 800
yuan a ton between March and June. The last increase of about
100 yuan a ton in June may have been delayed on government
concern higher energy prices will curb growth, Shi said.  Sales gained 5 percent to 1.42 trillion yuan, Sinopec said
in the statement. Production rose 3.8 percent to 219 million
barrels of oil equivalent. Overseas  output  climbed 5.8 percent
to 11.7 million barrels during the period.  Asset Injection  Sinopec will complete buying assets that account for a
quarter of its parent company’s oil production in September,
Chairman Fu said today. The transaction with parent, China
Petrochemical Corp., was announced earlier this year when the
two formed a joint venture in March to replace dwindling
reserves with oilfields in Kazakhstan, Colombia and  Russia . Fu
said the company will continue to seek more assets from the
China Petrochemical.  Sinopec’s capital expenditure was 52 billion yuan in the
first half, with 25 billion yuan of that spent on exploration
and production.  It generated an operating cash flow of 32.9 billion yuan in
the first six months, about 20 billion yuan less than what it
had spent.  “Cash flow remains a significant problem for Sinopec which
remains free cash flow negative,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based oil and gas analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in an
e-mailed note today. “Unless there are more decisive steps
taken to curb capital spending, then additional funding will be
required to support growth plans.”  Diesel Demand  Both Sinopec and PetroChina reported weaker demand for
diesel, closely associated with industrial production, as China
faces the slowest growth since the global financial crisis in
2008.  China’s  growth  slowed to 7.5 percent in the second quarter,
down from 7.7 percent in the first quarter of this year and 7.9
percent in the fourth quarter of 2012.  The refiner is the last among China’s three biggest oil
companies to report half-year results. PetroChina posted a 5.6
percent increase in first-half profit on Aug. 22, and  Cnooc
Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore oil and gas explorer, posted a
7.9 percent gain in profit on Aug. 20. Cnooc has no refining
business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  