-- South Africa Strikes Affects Construction Sites, Airline
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y ,   J a c o   V i s s e r   a n d   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-08-26T13:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/south-africa-construction-airline-workers-add-to-strike-woes.html
Workers at South Africa’s largest
building companies and its airline began strikes today,
extending labor disputes beyond  gold mines  and auto
manufacturing.  About 90,000 workers in the  construction industry  downed
tools after wage talks with the South African Federation of
Civil Engineering Contractors became deadlocked, National Union
of Mineworkers spokesman  Lesiba Seshoka  said by phone. About 600
technical staff at  South African Airways  also began a strike,
said Vincent Masoga, a spokesman at the South African Transport
and Allied Workers Union.  Employees at automotive plants owned by carmakers including
 Toyota Motor Corp (7203) , Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
will consider an improved wage offer that may end a walkout that
started Aug. 19. Employers have proposed a 10 percent annual pay
rise for the next three years, National Union of Metalworkers of
South Africa Treasurer Mphumzi Maqungo said by phone.  “We are convening a national shopsteward council meeting
tomorrow,” Numsa spokesman Castro Ngobese said in a text
message. “This will give us feedback on consultation and
provide a way forward. The strike is still going on.”  South Africa , the continent’s biggest economy, has been
wracked by labor turmoil since last year, undermining growth.
The rand has fallen by 17 percent against the dollar this year,
the worst performer of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
The currency strengthened 0.1 percent to 10.2321 per dollar by
3:23 p.m. in Johannesburg. Inflation this year ranged from 5.4
percent in January to 6.3 percent in July, breaching the 6
percent upper limit of the central bank target.  Sporadic Strike  “The civil engineering contracting industry is
experiencing a sporadic  strike action  today,” Annemie Cowley,
manager, marketing and communications at the South African
Federation of Civil Engineering Contractors, said today in an e-mailed response to questions. “Provinces most affected include
KwaZulu Natal, Western Cape, Gauteng, Limpopo and Mpumalanga.”  The seven-member  FTSE/JSE Africa Construction and Building
Materials Index  rose 1.2 percent to 43.10. It has declined 4.1
percent this year, compared with a  10 percent  gain in the
FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share gauge.  Members of the federation include the six biggest listed
builders of the country, she said. “More than 50% of employers
nationwide are affected and a large number of civil engineering
construction sites have reported strike actions in the
country.”  Aircraft Refueling  Striking workers at South African Airways’s technical
division are responsible for on-site repairs and the refueling
of aircraft at terminals across the country, including the O.R.
Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg.  The airline has put measures in place to minimize
disruptions while asking workers to report for duty, spokesman
Tlali Tlali said by text message yesterday. He declined to
comment when contacted by phone today.  The mineworkers union has given South Africa’s gold
producers, including  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Sibanye Gold
Ltd. (SGL) , until Aug. 31 to improve on a wage increase offer of 6
percent for lower-level workers, according to NUM’s Seshoka.  The union, which represents 64 percent of employees at the
seven gold companies participating in centralized talks through
the Chamber of Mines, was given permission to strike after wage
talks with the producers became deadlocked, the Commission for
Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration said on Aug. 22.  The union is demanding increases of as much as 61 percent
for entry-level workers. Strikes could cost 349 million rand
($34 million) a day in lost output, according to the Chamber of
Mines.  Construction and mining account for about 8 percent of
gross domestic product, according to Statistics South Africa,
while the vehicle industry makes up 7 percent of the economy,
according to the  Department of Trade and Industry .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net ;
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  