-- Vettel Wins Belgian Grand Prix to Extend Lead in F-1 Standings
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-08-25T23:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-25/vettel-wins-belgian-grand-prix-to-extend-lead-in-f-1-standings.html
Sebastian Vettel of Red Bull won the
Belgian Grand Prix to extend his lead in the Formula One
championship and boost his chances of a fourth straight title.  Vettel finished 16.8 seconds ahead of  Fernando Alonso  in
yesterday’s 44-lap race at Spa-Francorchamps. Mercedes’s  Lewis Hamilton  finished third after starting from pole position.  Vettel’s fifth victory this season and the 31st of his
career lifted him 46 points clear of Alonso in the standings
with 200 points still available from the remaining eight races.  “It was a fantastic race for us from start to finish,”
Vettel said at the podium ceremony. “We had very good tactics,
and it helped on the first lap to be able to pass Lewis. Once I
passed him, we had incredible pace. We could really control the
race until the end.”  Germany’s Vettel, 26, overtook Hamilton on the first lap
and was never threatened.  Starting from second place, Vettel only gave up the lead
while making a pit stop. Alonso recovered from a disappointing
performance in qualifying, surging from ninth position on the
grid to finish second.  Hamilton failed to convert a fourth straight pole position
into a race victory. Having dropped behind early on, the Briton
didn’t have the pace to trouble Vettel and Alonso.  “We had a tough race and these guys were a little bit
faster,” Hamilton said.  Nico Rosberg  of Mercedes was fourth, ahead of Red Bull’s
 Mark Webber , McLaren’s  Jenson Button , Felipe Massa of Ferrari
and  Romain Grosjean  of Lotus. Force India’s Adrian Sutil and
Daniel Ricciardo of  Toro Rosso  rounded out the points scoring
positions.  Raikkonen’s Retirement  Alonso and Hamilton overtook Lotus’s  Kimi Raikkonen  in the
drivers’ standings after the Finn retired from yesterday’s race
because of brake problems.  Vettel has 197 points, followed by Alonso (151), Hamilton
(139), Raikkonen (134) and Webber (115). Red Bull leads the
constructors’ event with 312 points, ahead of Mercedes (235),
Ferrari (218) and Lotus (187).  Two-time world champion Alonso said he can overhaul Vettel.  “This gives us the possibility to go forward,” he said.
“The championship is very long. If you have a competitive car
and win six consecutive races you can recover very quickly. We
will find out if we are in a position to do that.”  Yesterday’s race was the first after the mid-season break.
The next event, the 12th on the 19-race calendar, is the Sept. 8
Italian Grand Prix at Monza.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  