-- Samsung Starts Making Its Case at Patent Trial After Apple Rests
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/apple-rests-samsung-set-to-present-its-case-at-patent-trial-1-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  called its
first witnesses, two computer scientists, to attack  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
claimed originality of its software patents at issue in a
multibillion-dollar trial in  California .  The witnesses in federal court in  San Jose  yesterday
demonstrated technologies resembling and predating Apple’s
“rubberbanding” -- the way an iPad or iPhone screen seems to
bounce when a user scrolls to the end of a file -- years before
the 2007 release of the iPhone.  Benjamin Bederson , a  University of Maryland  professor, told
jurors about his “Launch Tile” invention, a system of 36
tiles, or application icons, in an interface allowing users to
zoom in and out and interact with the images. A “snapback
feature” permits a user to scroll through the images until the
border of the last tile is reached, when it stops. Jurors were
shown a video of the program, released in 2004, demonstrated on
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s HPiPAQ 1900 pocket personal computer.  “Users don’t have high precision when they’re using this
kind of device,”he testified. “This way they only have to
get nearby and the system will take them where they want to
go.”  Samsung began putting on its case after Apple concluded its
presentation of testimony that started July 31. Apple, based in
Cupertino, California, sued Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung in
April 2011, accusing it of copying patented designs. The dispute
is the first to go before a federal jury in a battle being waged
on four continents for dominance in a smartphone market valued
by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1 billion.  Second Witness  Samsung’s second witness, Adam Bogue, president of  Circle
Twelve , based in Framingham,  Massachusetts , testified about his
2001 Diamond Touch, a table of projected images that can be
manipulated with one’s hands. Adding the “table cloth”
technology he first demonstrated in 2005 allows a user to pull
the projected table back, grab an item and let it “snap back”
into position, he said.  The testimony was aimed at countering a series of witnesses
Apple called over the last two weeks to try to show that Samsung
has copied the design and technology of its iPhone and iPad.
Samsung’s lawyers have sought in cross-examination to undermine
Apple’s testimony by demonstrating that its own smartphones and
tables evolved through competition rather than mimicry.  Apple’s witnesses included its director of patent licensing
and strategy, Boris Teksler, who testified that the company’s
late co-founder,  Steve Jobs , confronted Samsung executives in
2010 after they introduced the Galaxy smartphone and that Apple
warned against copying the iPhone. Teksler told the jury
yesterday that Apple had an “anti-cloning” agreement with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   Paid Experts  The jury also heard from paid expert witnesses who claimed
that Samsung copied Apple design features like the rounded
rectangular body of the iPhone and functions such as
“rubberbanding,” the way an iPad or iPhone screen seems to
bounce when a user scrolls to the end of a file.  An October 2010 Apple document introduced as a court
exhibit last week showed the company was proposing that Samsung
license its patent portfolio for $30 per smartphone and $40 per
tablet.  In addition to patent infringement, Apple contends that
Samsung’s copying of the look of the iPhone and iPad has diluted
the value of its iconic brands.  Apple used market survey research to try to show the jury
that Samsung has copied its devices so closely that a consumer
seeing products made by the South Korean company would actually
believe them to be made by Apple. Samsung sought to demonstrate
there is little actual confusion among consumers between its and
Apple’s products.  Certified Accountant  Apple’s final witness, a certified public accountant,
testified yesterday that Samsung would owe at least $2.5 billion
in damages for infringement. He said his estimate is based on
Samsung’s sales of 22.7 million allegedly infringing smartphones
and tablet computers and revenue of $8.16 billion, starting when
the Galaxy devices were introduced in June 2010.  Beyond its claims for damages, Apple wants to make
permanent a preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales of a Samsung
tablet, and extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh has limited each side to 25
hours to present their cases.  After Apple rested yesterday, Koh granted a request by
Samsung to exclude infringement claims related to three of its
phones -- the Galaxy S i9000, the Galaxy Ace and the Galaxy S II
i9100 -- on grounds that they weren’t manufactured to be
exclusively sold in the U.S. Apple’s claims remain intact
against more than 20 other Samsung devices.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  