-- Bank of America Sells Jefferson County Bonds, Ends Appeal
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-08-14T15:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/bank-of-america-sells-jefferson-county-bonds-ends-appeal.html
Bank of America Corp.  sold most of
the $225.7 million worth of defaulted sewer bonds it held and
dropped out of a court case related to the bankruptcy of
Jefferson County,  Alabama , according to court records.  The second-biggest U.S. bank said in a court filing last
week that two of its units would no longer participate in the
appeal of a bankruptcy court ruling that stripped bondholders of
control over Jefferson County’s sewer system. One unit, Bank of
America N.A., sold all of the $65.7 million in bonds it held.
The other,  Blue Ridge  Investments LLC, sold most of the $160
million in bonds it held, according to court records filed with
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Atlanta.  Because of the sale, Blue Ridge “no longer desires to
pursue this appeal and incur the fees and expenses necessary to
do so,” the company said Aug. 10 in court papers.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett in Birmingham,
Alabama, ruled in January against bondholders when he found that
the county’s bankruptcy stripped a receiver working for
bondholders of control of the insolvent sewer system.  Bond Insurers  The decision by  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America leaves other bondholders and bond insurers, including
Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp., to fight the ruling on their
own. Bondholders are owed more than $3 billion related to sewer
system improvements.  Bank of America said it sold the bonds within the last 30
days. It didn’t say who bought the bonds or how much the buyer
paid. A company lawyer, Joe A. Joseph, didn’t return a call for
comment on the decision.  On Aug. 10, a dealer bought more than $1 million of
Jefferson County auction-rate sewer bonds for 65 cents on the
dollar from a customer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bankruptcy case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama
(Birmingham). The appeal is Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. v.
Jefferson County, Alabama, 12-13654, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the 11th Circuit (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  