-- Barclays Cheaper Than Peers Fuels Breakup Talk: Real M&A
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-08-14T17:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/barclays-cheaper-than-peers-fuels-breakup-talk-real-m-a.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K. bank fined a
record amount for rigging global interest rates, is languishing
at a cheaper valuation than 93 percent of its global
competitors, fueling a debate about breaking up Britain’s
second-biggest lender.  The shares trade at a  59 percent discount  to book value,
implying investors don’t agree that the bank’s holdings are
worth as much as the London-based company says. That’s a lower
price-to-book ratio than 141 financial firms listed in the 152-
company Bloomberg World Banks Index, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. While Liberum Capital Ltd. says one hurdle to a
breakup may be the investment bank’s ability to fund itself,
Canaccord Financial Inc. says splitting up Barclays may almost
double its market value of 22 billion pounds ($35 billion).  David Walker , the former Bank of England executive director
named chairman of Barclays last week, is joining the company as
lawmakers reignite calls to separate consumer and  investment
banking   operations  after the resignation of its top three
leaders. Barclays has dropped 29 percent from this year’s stock
 peak  in March as the firm was fined 290 million pounds for
manipulating the benchmark  London  interbank offered rate.  “The Libor scandal has fueled the debate about breaking up
banks,”  John Smith , a Manchester, England-based senior  fund
manager  at Brown Shipley & Co., which manages more than 2
billion pounds including Barclays  shares , said in a telephone
interview. “A breakup would boost the value of Barclays. The
retail business is being weighed down by concerns about the
investment bank. Still, implementing the split is easier said
than done.”  Universal Bank  The break-up discussion will be one of the first issues
facing Walker, who will succeed Marcus Agius as chairman of
Barclays on Nov. 1. Walker said in an interview with the
Telegraph newspaper that “my view is that this should continue
to be a universal bank,” according to the Aug. 11  article .
Agius has also defended the so-called universal banking model,
which combines  consumer lending  with corporate and investment
banking.  Giles Croot, a spokesman for Barclays, said the bank
declined to comment beyond Walker’s statement to the Telegraph.  U.S. and European regulators are probing more than a dozen
banks worldwide regarding allegations they manipulated Libor,
the benchmark  interest rate  for more than $500 trillion of
securities and loans worldwide. Investigators are examining
whether traders colluded to rig the rate for profit and whether
banks hid their borrowing costs to appear healthier than they
were. Barclays was the first to settle.  ‘Unlock Value’  Barclays has seen its market value slump more than a third
from the end of 2000 even as its  book value of equity  has surged
fourfold, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The bank’s shares are down  76 percent  since peaking at
769.36 pence in February 2007, six months before the start of
the credit crisis. The next year, Barclays agreed to buy the
North American operations of bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  Barclays was trading yesterday at 0.41 times its book
value, or the value of its assets minus liabilities, compared
with the median of 1.24 times for the 152 financial firms in the
Bloomberg World Banks Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In
July, Barclays’s price-to-book ratio hit a 10-month low of 0.34.  “Shareholders should examine the case for a breakup
because it would unlock value,”  Gareth Hunt , an analyst at
Canaccord, who recommends buying the shares, said in a telephone
interview. “Management change and the Libor scandal will serve
as a catalyst to review strategy. Something has to happen. It
can’t be business as usual.”  Breakup Value  Today, Barclays shares rose 1.5 percent to 185.75 pence,
the highest closing price since June 27.  Barclays may be valued at as much as 343 pence per share on
a sum-of-the-parts basis, or about 42 billion pounds, according
to a July 19 report by Hunt and Arun Melmane, London-based
analysts at Canaccord. That would be 87 percent higher than
yesterday’s closing stock price of 183.05 pence. Among the
pieces, the break-up scenario would value the U.K. retail bank
at 90 pence a share, Barclays’s credit-card unit at 73 pence and
the investment bank at 176 pence, according to Canaccord.  Yesterday’s market capitalization of 22.4 billion pounds
implies the investment bank, known until March as  Barclays
Capital , has a market value of zero or a negative amount,
according to Canaccord’s Hunt and  Ian Gordon , a London-based
analyst at Investec Plc, even though it accounted for about  half 
of the company’s total pretax profit from continuing operations
last year.  Political Pressure  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at Mediobanca
SpA, estimates that Barclays’s retail and investment banking
divisions would be worth a combined 33.3 billion pounds in a
breakup. That would be 49 percent more than the firm’s current
market value. He said in an e-mail yesterday that his analysis
is based on tangible book value and comparisons to European
retail banking operations and to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  for investment banking.  Barclays trades at 0.48 times tangible book value, which
measures the company’s asset value in a liquidation.  “The break-up story may now gain ‘legs,’” Wheeler said in
a note to investors on July 5. “The new CEO may be under
political pressure to carry this process out.”  Walker, 72, said his first task will be to find a
replacement for Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond , who
resigned in July, after the fines by U.S. and U.K. regulators
for rigging Libor.  Breakup Opposition  Walker will review pay policies and the balance between
retail and investment banking, the Sunday Times reported Aug.
12. The investment-banking unit may be cut in size by as much as
a fifth, the newspaper reported, citing people it didn’t
identify.  George Godber, a fund manager who helps oversee about $250
million at Charles Stanley & Co.’s Matterley division in London,
also backs the universal banking model.  “Right now a breakup would unlock a lot of value, but over
the longer term it would be a bad strategic decision,” said
Godber, who sold his Barclays shares after the Libor fine.
“There’s the risk that management and lawmakers will make the
wrong short-term decision to appease the public.”  Chirantan Barua of Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said he
opposes a split because of concerns about the investment bank’s
ability to maintain capital levels and fund itself and the
potential loss of corporate clients. Barua warns against a
breakup, even though he said investors are not placing a high
market value on the investment bank and the retail unit should
be valued higher.  ‘Bad Idea’  Still, the London-based analyst estimates Barclays is worth
307 pence a share based on a sum-of-the-parts analysis,
according to a June report, 68 percent more than yesterday’s
closing price.  “Splitting up Barclays is a bad idea economically, legally
and politically,” Barua said in a telephone interview.  Cormac Leech, an analyst at London-based Liberum Capital,
said the investment bank would struggle to fund itself cheaply
enough and would lose revenue synergies with the rest of the
company.  Barua and Leech contrast with Canaccord’s Hunt, who argues
that his firm’s analysis suggests the investment bank is self-
funding and not reliant on the group for liquidity.  A split would be going a step further than the U.K.
government’s plan to force the country’s lenders to insulate
consumer banking units from the investment bank by 2019 to try
to shield customers and taxpayers from another financial crisis.  Government Rules  The Independent Commission on Banking recommended in a
September report that banks partially separate their consumer
and investment banks. This includes creating independent boards
and risk committees and maintaining separate balance sheets.  “We’re going to separate the investment bank and retail
bank anyways, so all we’re saying is just stick a quote on
both,” said Canaccord’s Hunt. “Give shareholders that
choice.”  The debate hasn’t been limited to the U.K.  Sanford “Sandy” Weill, whose creation of  Citigroup (C)  Inc.
ushered in the era of U.S. banking conglomerates a decade before
the financial crisis, said in a July 25 interview on CNBC that
it’s time to break up the largest banks to avoid more bailouts.  The same day,  Michael Mayo , an analyst at CLSA Ltd., said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television that large U.S. banks,
including Morgan Stanley, Citigroup and  Bank of America Corp. ,
should consider breaking up.  Separating Barclays’s divisions may also create takeover
targets. The investment bank could attract companies in  emerging
markets  including Chinese lenders, said Godber of Matterley, or
it could be merged with another investment bank, according to
Canaccord’s Hunt.  “Splitting the bank in two would help the valuation,”
said Smith of Brown Shipley. “Barclays would be less risky but
also less profitable without the investment bank. The investment
bank could also have capital and funding difficulties. But if
the investment bank sufficiently cut its risk, it could attract
cash from investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  at   jackiem@bloomberg.net . 