-- China Swap Rises as PBOC Refrains From Cutting Reserve Ratios
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-13T03:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/china-swap-rises-as-pboc-refrains-from-cutting-reserve-ratios.html
China’s  interest-rate swaps  climbed
by the most in two months on speculation the central bank will
hold off from easing lenders’ reserve requirements as its uses
open-market operations to add capital to the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand today for seven-
day reverse-repurchase contract auctions this week, according to
a trader required to bid at the sales. The monetary authority
has postponed lowering reserve ratios as reverse repos are
ensuring an adequate supply of cash, according to a commentary
published today by the Financial News, which is controlled by
the central bank.  “The market is probably reacting to the news report that
reserve repos are sufficient for now,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a
fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong .
“Expectations for a reserve-ratio cut have been damped.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, increased 10
basis points to 2.78 percent as of 10:41 a.m. in Shanghai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was the biggest
advance since June 11.  The central bank also asked lenders to submit orders for
28- and 91-day  repurchase agreements , according to the trader.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose four basis points to 3.34 percent, a
weighted average compiled by the Interbank Funding Center shows.
The yield on the 3.51 percent government bonds due February 2022
rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.29 percent,
according to the Interbank Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Andrew Janes,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 