-- Citigroup Sees Indian M&A Gaining as Seek Debt Fix
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-08-14T06:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/citigroup-sees-indian-m-a-gaining-as-seek-debt-fix.html
Indian companies including real
estate developers and infrastructure firms may sell assets to
pare debt amid shrinking opportunities to raise funds, the
nation’s top adviser for equity offerings said.  “Companies need to correct balance sheet leverage,” Ravi Kapoor, the Mumbai-based head of  investment banking  at  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , said in an interview at his office on Aug. 8 without
naming any firms. “The equity markets are not around, so they
will consider merging with companies with healthy balance sheets
or try to divest assets.”  The highest  interest rate  among major Asian economies has
resulted in a jump in borrowing costs for companies, prompting
them to put expansion plans on hold. Dollar bond issuance has
halved and initial public offerings are down 75 percent this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The value of mergers and acquisitions in India has tripled
this year from the same period in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , India’s biggest real estate
company, which had 202 billion rupees ($3.6 billion) debt as of
March, sold a unit to a rival, according to an exchange filing
yesterday. The developer plans to raise as much as 70 billion
rupees from sales in the next three years to reduce debt, DLF
has said.  “Infrastructure and real-estate developers are among
sectors with high debt levels,” Kapoor said. Faltering earnings
growth will become a “trigger for consolidation.”  DLF, which has  risen  19 percent this year, gained 3.5
percent to 217.7 rupees in Mumbai yesterday. Unitech Ltd.,
India’s second-largest developer, which has 55.3 billion rupees
of debt, gained 2.1 percent to 21.5 rupees.  Deal Value  Indian companies raised $7.3 billion over 39 local
acquisitions in 2012, compared with $2 billion through 54 such
deals in the same period last year, data show.  The nation’s $1.8 trillion economy grew at a rate of 5.3
percent in the three months ended March, from a year earlier.
Below-average rainfall is stoking farm prices and preventing the
 Reserve Bank  of India from cutting borrowing costs.  The central bank kept its benchmark repurchase rate at 8
percent in the last review on July 31. Governor Duvvuri Subbarao
said his focus was to control inflation which climbed 7.25
percent in June.  “The next few quarters are expected to be challenging for
most corporates,” Krishna Kumar Karwa, managing director of
Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd., told Bloomberg TV India on
Aug. 13. “Even corporates that have announced very good results
have been very cautious about their outlook for the next two to
three quarters.”  June-quarter earnings for about 38 percent of companies on
the Sensex have trailed analysts’ estimates so far, compared
with 30 percent of the index companies that missed forecasts in
the three months ended March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Volatile Markets  Stock market issuance will remain difficult, Kapoor said as
investors alter their risk appetite based on global cues and
slowing domestic growth reduces India’s appeal.  “Volatility will be the order of the day for the next 6 to
9 months, with few windows of opportunities for issuers,” he
said. Sellers of already listed stocks may manage to conduct
block trades that do not need to go through a regulatory
approval process like IPOs and take the least time to sell.  Companies including  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  and
Samvardhana Motherson Finance Ltd. have canceled or delayed at
least $9 billion of stock offerings this year, as investors
shunned the sales amid concerns over slowing growth.  Rupee’s Slide  Indian companies raised $4.3 billion selling global bonds
this year, compared with $9 billion in the same period last
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Unlike in equity markets
where the slump is driven by a lack of demand, in the  bond
market  the decline is driven by companies wary of locking in
dollar- or euro-denominated debt while the rupee declines in
value.  “The dollar bond market has been very liquid and available
to issuers,” Kapoor said. “Volatility in recent global
markets, credit spreads and the depreciation of the rupee has
got corporates to think twice before they access it,
particularly those that aren’t naturally hedged on revenues.”  Citigroup is ranked first in arranging equity sales, the
data show.  India ’s rupee, which has weakened 4.3 percent this
year, traded at 55.34 rupees to the  U.S. dollar  yesterday. If it
returns to 48 rupees-per-dollar level, dollar bond activity will
pick up, Kapoor said.  Foreign Buyers  Companies that have acquired assets overseas and want to
refinance their loans through long-term bonds could be the first
to tap the markets, Kapoor said.  The nation’s corporates are facing $5.3 billion of maturing
convertibles this year, and a decline in stock markets is
forcing them to pay back debt.  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s
biggest wind turbine-maker, paid $360 million in July to redeem
its U.S. dollar-denominated convertible bonds. The company
borrowed $300 million from 11 lenders including  State Bank  of
India, a person familiar with the matter told Bloomberg.  Foreign companies are still interested in takeovers in
India because it remains one of the fastest-growing emerging
economies, Kapoor said. Still, “valuation mismatches” are
hampering dealmaking, he said.  “The consumption sector continues to see the most interest
from foreign acquirers,” Kapoor said. “Even in a slowdown,
consumer non-discretionary goods will continue to attract
strategic investors.”  Citigroup was an adviser on the $1 billion sale of a stake
in outsourcing company  Genpact Ltd. (G)  by General Atlantic LLC and
Oak Hill Capital Partners LP. Bain Capital Partners LLC agreed
to buy 30 percent of Genpact’s outstanding shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  