-- Crown Plans to Sell A$400 Million of Subordinated Listed Notes
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-08-13T00:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/crown-plans-to-sell-a-400-million-of-subordinated-listed-notes.html
Crown Ltd. (CWN) , the casino company
controlled by Australian billionaire  James Packer , plans to
market A$400 million ($423 million) of subordinated notes as it
seeks to fund hotel projects while keeping its  credit rating .  The casino company is offering unsecured, subordinated,
cumulative notes due in 2072, which Melbourne-based Crown can
buy back from 2018, according to a regulatory filing today. The
margin on the securities, which will trade on the nation’s
biggest securities exchange, is expected to be 500 basis points,
or 5 percentage points, more than the three-month bank bill swap
rate, according to the filing.  Crown expects credit ratings firms will treat part of the
proceeds from the offer as equity, bolstering its balance sheet,
it said today. Consolidated Press Holdings Pty, Packer’s
personal investment company and a shareholder in Crown, will buy
A$100 million of the notes, according to the filing.  Proceeds from the offer “will diversify Crown’s funding
sources and will provide greater flexibility to refinance
upcoming debt maturities,” Chief Financial Officer Ken Barton
said in the filing.  The company announced plans this month to develop hotels in
Perth and Sydney. It is also seeking regulatory approval to
increase its stake in rival  Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP) , owner
of Sydney’s only casino license, to 25 percent from 10 percent.  Crown holds a BBB rating from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings, the second-lowest investment grade  ranking , and the
equivalent Baa2 from Moody’s Investors Service.  Crown plans to spend A$568 million to build a 500-room
hotel in Perth, the capital of Western Australia state, the
company said in an Aug 1 regulatory statement. It has signed an
exclusive agreement with  Lend Lease Group (LLC)  to build a luxury
hotel resort at Sydney’s harborside development know as
Barangaroo South, it said the following day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  