-- Currency Flows Reversing China to Colombia as Trade Slows
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-08-14T11:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/currency-flows-reversing-china-to-colombia-as-trade-slows.html
Just three months after the biggest
developing economies sold dollars to support their currencies,
policy makers from Colombia to China are moving to weaken
exchange rates and revive exports as the  International Monetary
Fund  forecasts the slowest trade growth in three years.  Colombian Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry urged the
central bank on Aug. 3 to boost minimum dollar purchases from
$20 million a day, saying the country needs “more ammunition”
to drive down the peso in the global “currency war.” The
Philippines banned foreign funds from deposit accounts and
unexpectedly cut interest rates in July as the peso hit a four-
year high. In China, authorities lowered the  yuan reference rate 
to the weakest since November, which according to Citigroup Inc.
will create “headwinds” for other Asian currencies.  After spending more than $59 billion in foreign reserves in
May and June to stem  currency depreciation , developing nations
are reversing policies as the European debt crisis outweighs the
risk of faster inflation.  South Korea  and Chile may weaken
exchange rates to make their exports cheaper, according to UBS
AG. The IMF estimates  global trade  will expand at the slowest
pace since 2009.  “Policy makers will become more aggressive,” said  Bhanu Baweja , a London-based strategist at UBS. “The currency
strengthening is in contrast with the state of the economy. That
argues for much weaker foreign-exchange rates.”  Currency Swings  Options traders are bracing for wider currency swings in
some  emerging markets  in coming months. The gap between implied
volatility on one-year and three-month options for the South
Korean won widened to a 10-year high of 2.85 percentage points
on July 12, from 1.96 percentage points two months earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of America Corp. lowered its end-September forecast
for the yuan on July 25 to 6.45 per dollar from 6.30, saying
“downside growth and disinflationary risks” may prompt China
to let its currency depreciate. The new forecast represents a
1.4 percent decline from yesterday’s close.  “People aren’t expecting currency appreciation from
emerging Asia anymore,” said Albert Ma, a Taipei-based bond
fund manager at PineBridge Investments LLC, which oversees $67
billion of assets globally. “These countries are mainly export-
oriented. They’d want their currencies to be weak when the
global economy is going this bad.”  Just three months ago, policy makers were taking steps to
prop up exchange rates when emerging-market currencies, as
measured by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s ELMI+ Index, lost 5.9 percent
in May, the most since September.  Debt Crisis  As the deepening  European debt crisis  led investors to
retreat from developing nations, central banks drew on foreign-
exchange reserves to limit declines, causing a combined $19.7
billion drop that month in Brazil, Russia and India, official
data show. China’s holdings, the world’s largest at $3.24
trillion, fell $65 billion in the second quarter.  Since May, the ELMI+ index has climbed 4.4 percent as
European policy makers pledged to tackle the crisis and record-
low yields on U.S. Treasuries and German bunds spurred demand
for riskier assets. Emerging-market bond funds have taken in
more than $46 billion this year, surpassing the $43 billion of
inflows in the whole of 2011, according to JPMorgan.  Central Banks  Chile’s peso advanced to the strongest level since
September on Aug. 9, approaching levels that prompted the
central bank to buy dollars in 2008 and 2011. The peso declined
for a second day yesterday, falling 0.6 percent.  The won, which reached a four-month high on Aug. 9,
strengthened 0.1 percent today. Malaysia’s ringgit gained 0.2
percent after touching its strongest level since May on Aug. 7.  The currencies are rebounding as slowing exports drag down
economic growth in  developing countries . The global trade
expansion will ease to 3.8 percent this year, from 5.9 percent
in 2011 and 12.8 percent in 2010, according to the IMF. China’s
 export  growth collapsed to 1 percent in July from an average 18
percent over the past seven years as demand from Europe, the
country’s largest trading partner, declined.  “We have a growth problem in the global economy,”  Michael Ganske , the head of emerging-market research at Commerzbank AG
in London, said in a phone interview. “Emerging-market central
banks can’t let their currencies appreciate on the back of
portfolio flows to the point it kills exports.”  ‘More Diverged’  With Asian and Latin American currencies down about 9
percent since their peak in July 2011, policy makers aren’t
worried about their nations’ losing competitiveness, said  Kieran Curtis , who helps oversee $4 billion in emerging-market debt at
Aviva Investors Ltd. in London.  “We haven’t seen particularly broadly based
intervention,” Curtis said. “I don’t think they are all
seriously concerned about the currency strength. It’s more
diverged.”  All except four of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg have weakened over the past 12 months. Brazil’s real
lost 20 percent against the dollar in that period as the
 Hungarian forint  fell 15 percent.  In Colombia, it’s a different story. The 26 percent gain in
the peso since 2008 threatens to undermine local industry and
farmers. Flower growers cut 30,000 jobs in the past seven years
because of the peso’s rally, according to the Association of
Colombian Flower Exporters. Echeverry said Aug. 8 that he has
asked the central bank to double its daily dollar purchases to
$40 million.  “We are in a currency war, and those who don’t fight
lose,” he said in an interview in Bogota on Aug. 3.  Philippine Regulations  In the Philippines, the central bank tightened rules on
capital inflows last month by prohibiting foreigners from
parking funds in so-called special deposit accounts. Policy
makers also cut the benchmark  interest rate  by a quarter-
percentage point on July 26 to a record 3.75 percent, a move
that Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said will help “temper”
peso gains. The currency’s 4.6 percent advance versus the dollar
this year is the best performance in Asia. The peso fell 0.1
percent today.  South Korea, which sent a combined 44 percent of its
overseas shipments to China, the U.S. and the European Union
last year, will step up monitoring foreign purchases of won-
denominated debt, Shin Hyung Chul, director general of the
treasury bureau at the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, said in
an Aug. 8 interview in Seoul.  Overseas Holdings  Overseas investors boosted bond holdings by 1.4 trillion
won ($1.2 billion) to a record 89.7 trillion won in July, or 17
percent of the total outstanding, government figures show.  After keeping its currency little changed during the
2008-2009 financial crisis, China has allowed the  yuan  to
depreciate this year. The central bank set a  reference rate  of
6.3456 on Aug. 13, the weakest level since November. The daily
fixing, around which the currency is allowed to fluctuate by as
much as 1 percent, was reduced 0.7 percent in the past three
months, the most since a peg ended in 2005.  The Czech Republic’s central bank may weaken the koruna by
about 10 percent against its trading partners to help the
export-led economy recover from recession, according to Bank of
America. A 10 percent depreciation will lead to as much as a 5-
percentage-point increase in exports, Mai Doan, a London-based
economist, wrote in a report to clients on Aug. 6.  Fed Purchases  Pressure for emerging-market currencies to appreciate may
persist as central banks in developed nations boost monetary
stimulus to revive growth, according to  Frances Cheung , a
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong .  The  Federal Reserve  said Aug. 1 it will pump fresh funds
into the economy if necessary to bolster growth. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the following day that
policy makers will buy shorter-maturity  government securities  to
help quell turmoil in the region’s debt markets.  The U.S. central bank bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and
Treasury debt from December 2008 to June 2011 in two rounds of
so-called quantitative easing, sending the dollar to record lows
against its trading partners. In response, countries from Brazil
to China bought dollars to curb their currency rallies, boosting
foreign reserves in the eight largest developing economies 46
percent in the three years through 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Developing countries “don’t want a strong currency, losing
export momentum and losing domestic momentum,” said Phillip Blackwood, who oversees $2.9 billion in emerging-market debt as
a managing partner at EM Quest Capital LLP in London. “They
want to boost GDP as much as possible. A weaker currency is
another measure they can use.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  