-- Hungary Joins Czechs in Recession on Budget Cuts, Crisis
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-08-14T15:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/czech-hungary-gdp-probably-fell-in-second-quarter.html
The Czech economy extended its
decline and  Hungary  returned to a recession in the second
quarter as government budget cuts sapped domestic demand and the
euro-area crisis weakened exports.  The Czech and Hungarian  economies , the second- and third-
largest among post-communist European Union members, each
contracted 0.2 percent from the first three months of the year,
according to preliminary data released by statistics offices in
 Prague  and Budapest today. Gross domestic product declined 1.2
percent from a year earlier in both countries.  The worsening economic performance is adding to the
governments’ financial strains as they struggle to curb budget
deficits with measures including tax increases, which depress
 consumer spending . Exports from factories including Skoda Auto
AS,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Audi AG (NSU)  continue to support the Czech and
Hungarian economies, even as the manufacturers face weakening
demand from their main markets in the 17-nation euro area.  “For now, the drop in output in both countries seems to
have been driven as much by domestic austerity as by weaker
export demand from  Europe ,”  Neil Shearing , chief emerging-
markets economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said in
an e-mail. “But with external headwinds likely to build over
the second half of this year and into 2013, the growth prospects
for the entire region are pretty grim.”  German Data  The contractions came even as  Germany , the biggest trading
partner for both nations, reported today a faster-than-expected
economic expansion. The  Hungarian forint  advanced 0.4 percent to
278.51 to the euro and the Czech koruna gained 0.3 percent to
25.024 per euro as of 5:03 p.m. in Budapest and Prague.  Neighboring Slovakia, which also relies on exports to the
euro region, grew 0.7 percent from the first quarter. Romania’s
economy expanded for the first time since the July-September
period last year. Growth in  Poland ’s economy, the biggest in the
EU’s east, probably slowed to the weakest pace in nine quarters,
a Bloomberg survey of 18 analysts shows. Poland will report
second-quarter GDP Aug. 30.  The two-year-old Cabinet of Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas
is pushing through measures including an increase in sales
levies, a new tax bracket for higher earners and spending cuts
as it seeks to trim the budget  deficit .  Necas defended the plan today, saying it is needed for the
government to cut the shortfall to less than the EU’s limit of 3
percent of GDP next year, according to the CTK newswire.  Private consumption will fall this year because of weak
real disposable-income growth and negative sentiment, with full-
year GDP to shrink 0.9 percent in 2012, according to a central
bank forecast published on Aug. 2.  Retail sales  declined in
every month in the second quarter, while  consumer confidence 
fell to the lowest level in almost 13 years in May, according to
the statistics office data.  Czech Cut  An absence of demand-driven inflation prompted the central
bank to cut the  benchmark  two-week interest rate to a record low
0.5 percent in June, bringing it a quarter-point below the
 European Central Bank ’s main rate. Policy makers in Prague may
further reduce rates or use other measures to meet inflation
goals, Vice-Governor  Vladimir Tomsik  said Aug.2.  “Domestic factors are to blame for the mild but lengthy
recession,”  David Marek , the chief economist at Patria Finance
in Prague said in a note to clients. “Household consumption
remains depressed as real disposal income declines. Government
eased its consolidation effort, but it cannot provide any
significant positive stimulus.”  Investors stepped up bets the Czech central bank will
reduce borrowing costs after the GDP data were published.  Bond Yields  Forward-rate agreements fixing interest in February dropped
to 41 basis points below the Prague interbank offered rate by
11:05 a.m. in Prague, the strongest bet on lower funding costs
since at least 2010. Two-year government bond yields slid one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 0.58 percent, the
lowest since Bloomberg began tracking the generic index in 1997.  In Hungary, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is focusing on
keeping the budget  deficit  within the EU limit. Hungary resumed
talks with the IMF and the EU in July after a seven-month delay
as it seeks about 15 billion euros ($18.2 billion) to reduce
financing costs and protect against contagion from the euro
area’s debt crisis.  Junk Status  IMF and EU officials are focusing on untangling policies
that contributed to the downgrade of Hungary’s credit to junk as
recessions in the euro region curbed demand for exports.  They included the flat personal income tax, which cut
revenue without lifting consumption and prompted the Cabinet to
close budget holes using extraordinary industry taxes that
reduced investment and halted economic growth.  The second-quarter figures “aren’t surprising,” the
Economy Ministry in Budapest said in a statement, saying the
slowdown in Hungary’s export markets caused a “temporary loss
of momentum.”  The Czech and Hungarian economies are unlikely to rebound
in the coming months, Stanislava Pravdova, an analyst at Danske
Bank AS in Copenhagen, said in an interview.  “The outlook for both economies looks pretty gloomy for
the remainder of this year as demand for Czech and Hungarian
exports is expected to decline further on the back of the
deepening economic crisis in  euro zone ,” Pravdova said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  