-- Dell, Samsung Will Make Windows RT Devices as Toshiba Cancels
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-08-14T06:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/dell-samsung-lenovo-asus-to-manufacture-windows-rt-computers.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  named four PC makers
that will offer devices using its new operating system tailored
for  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  technology. Toshiba Corp. canceled plans to
make the devices because of delays in getting components.  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,  Samsung (005930)  Electronics Co.,  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  and
 Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  will make computers using Windows RT, the
Redmond, Washington-based company  said  in its first disclosure
of which companies will support the platform. Toshiba, which had
intended to use processors from Texas Instruments Inc., didn’t
name the parts facing shortages.  Microsoft, seeking to erode Apple Inc.’s dominance in the
market for mobile phones and tablets, will release its next
Windows platforms in October, with its RT version based on the
same chip technology from ARM used in iPads and iPhones. Toshiba
said it will focus on devices using Windows 8, which operates on
x86 technology utilized by  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD)  in chips for desktop and notebook computers.  “Toshiba has decided not to introduce Windows RT models
due to delayed components that would make a timely launch
impossible,” Eric Paulsen, a spokesman in the U.S. for the
Tokyo-based company, said in a statement without specifying the
components. “We will continue to look into the possibility of
Windows RT products in the future while monitoring market
conditions.”  Asustek, Samsung  The Windows RT operating system will be included in
completed devices and won’t be sold separately, Microsoft said.
The RT devices will join Microsoft’s own Surface tablet, its
first-ever PC hardware, as the market for handheld products
outpaces that for traditional desktop and laptop PCs.  Asustek, based in Taipei, showed Windows RT devices using
Nvidia Corp.’s Tegra 3 processor at the Computex trade show in
June while also announcing plans to release a Windows 8 notebook
and tablet with Intel chips. People with knowledge of the matter
told Bloomberg News in July that Samsung planned to release a
Windows RT tablet when the software debuts.  Machines running the next version of Windows will go on
sale on Oct. 26, though the blog post didn’t specify when the
manufacturers listed would release their products.  Mark Martin ,
a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to comment.  Products using Windows RT will be thin and light with long
battery life, Microsoft said. The devices will use chips from
Qualcomm Inc., Nvidia and Texas Instruments, it said in the blog
post.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in New York at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  