-- Whitman Denies Trading on Polycom Tips From Roomy Khan
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-08-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/doug-whitman-denies-trading-on-polycom-tips-from-roomy-khan.html
Whitman Capital LLC’s Doug Whitman,
testifying in his own defense at his insider trading trial, told
jurors he didn’t trade in  Polycom Inc. (PLCM)  stock based on
information from  Roomy Khan , one of the government’s key
witnesses.  Whitman, 54, who is charged with trading on illegal tips on
Polycom,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) , disputed
Khan’s testimony that he often “hounded” her to get inside
information on Polycom earnings from her friend Sunil Bhalla, a
senior vice president at the company. Under questioning from
defense lawyer  David Anderson , Whitman said Khan was the one who
brought up Bhalla in a phone conversation in January 2006.  “She told me not to do anything until she talked to Sunil
Bhalla,” Whitman testified yesterday in  Manhattan  federal
court. “I really didn’t care. We had already started our
investment decision.”  Whitman is the first defendant to testify at a trial in the
government’s crackdown on  insider trading  at hedge funds. The
decision to testify leaves Whitman open to cross-examination
from prosecutors, which will begin as early as today.  Whitman testified about his company’s history of investing
in Pleasanton, California-based Polycom, a maker of
videoconferencing equipment, and his decision to buy the
company’s shares. He told jurors his hedge fund, which he
founded in 1994, invested in Polycom beginning with the
company’s 1996 initial public offering.  The firm based its investment decisions on legitimate
research, including talks with company management, Whitman said.  Core Holdings  Polycom and Marvell were among the 20-to-30 technology
stocks that formed Whitman Capital’s core holdings, Whitman
said. At times the firm invested more than 15 percent of the
$100 million it managed in Polycom stock, he told jurors.
Marvell holdings ranged as high as 20 percent.  Whitman said he met Khan, a former Intel Corp. executive,
in 2002 and talked to her by phone about once a week. He called
her “very smart” and said she knew a lot about the industry.  “We probably talked most about her personal life, more
than anything else,” Whitman testified. “And we also talked
about stocks, industry things.”  Whitman said he didn’t know that Khan had pleaded guilty in
2001 to passing confidential earnings information from Intel to
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Khan, who pleaded
guilty to a new set of insider trading charges in 2009, is
cooperating with the government.  Government Rests  In addition to Khan, jurors have heard testimony from two
other witnesses who pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the
government: Karl Motey, a consultant hired by Whitman, and
Wesley Wang, a consultant and former Whitman Capital intern.
Prosecutors presented instant messages and telephone recordings
they claim show Whitman traded on confidential company
information.  If convicted, Whitman faces as long as five years in prison
on each conspiracy charge and 20 years on each securities fraud
charge.  The government rested its case yesterday after presenting
almost two weeks of testimony. The trial began July 30.  The final prosecution witness, a  Menlo Park , California-
based florist, Jeffrey Adair, testified that in July 2009
Whitman sent a $125 bouquet to Khan. Prosecutors claim Whitman,
whose firm was based in Menlo Park, sent the flowers to thank
Khan for a tip on Google’s earnings that hadn’t been publicly
announced.  A note accompanying the flowers read, “thank you from
whitman capital,” according to an order from Adair’s records.  Whitman’s lawyers yesterday also asked U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff to let them read to jurors Bhalla’s 2011 testimony in
a civil suit that he never passed illegal Polycom information to
Khan. Rakoff has yet to rule on the request.  The case is U.S. v. Whitman, 1:12-cr-00125, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 