-- Heart Attack Test May Cut Emergency Room Diagnosis Time
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-08-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/heart-attack-test-may-cut-emergency-room-diagnosis-time.html
Doctors may be able diagnose a heart
attack in one hour using a new test approach that could save
time, money and crowding in hospital emergency rooms,
researchers said.  Using more-sensitive screening technology to detect changes
in cardiac troponin, a substance in the blood tested for
evidence of heart attack, and inputting the data into an
algorithm, doctors were able to determine whether a heart attack
had occurred in 77 percent of patients within an hour of
arriving at the hospital with chest pain, according to research
published in the  Archives of Internal Medicine .  About 10 percent of all emergency room consultations are
for patients with heart attack symptoms, the researchers said.
Limitations in older tools used to read troponin can delay heart
attack diagnosis for as long as six hours and contribute to
overcrowding in the emergency room, the authors said.  “There’s a bit more work to be done to show, that in a
prospective fashion, by employing these algorithms you have good
clinical results,”  Kristin Newby , professor of medicine in the
Division of Cardiology at Duke University Medical Center in
Durham,  North Carolina , and author of an accompanying editorial,
said in an interview. “This kind of work sets the stage for
that and ultimately helps move things forward.”  The more-sensitive blood tests aren’t available now in
clinical practice in the U.S., Newby said. Basel, Switzerland-
based  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , a sponsor of the study, donated the
blood assay used in the research. Rising troponin levels are a
marker of a heart attack. With conventional tests it can take
three to four hours before doctors can detect an increase in
troponin levels.  Test Results  The study published yesterday was also supported by  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) ,  Siemens AG (SIE) , the Swiss Heart Foundation, the Swiss
National Science Foundation and the University Hospital Basel.  The researchers looked at 872 patients who went to the
hospital with chest pains. They used 436 patients’ troponin
levels to develop the algorithm and validated the results in the
remaining people.  Heart attack was diagnosed in 17 percent of all the
patients. After using the algorithm, 259 people were classified
as not having a heart attack, 76 were confirmed as having a
heart attack and 101 were put in an observational zone within
one hour of arriving at the hospital.  They found 30-day survival was almost 100 percent in those
ruled out as having a heart attack, 99 percent in those in the
observational group and 95 percent in the heart attack group.  Newby said the real opportunity for using an algorithm like
this would be if it could be incorporated into electronic health
records or hand-held devices to make it easier for doctors to
remember all the information they need.  “These assays are incredibly sensitive. We’re still in
some ways looking for how to implement them effectively,” she
said. “This is a big step forward in understanding how to
employ them in what can be a very confusing environment, to
tease out heart attacks from many other things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  