-- Egypt Military Signals It Won’t Contest Move on Generals
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-08-14T15:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/egypt-military-won-t-challenge-tantawi-enan-departures.html
Egypt ’s military council signaled it
won’t oppose President Mohamed Mursi’s decision to retire the
nation’s two top generals as he seeks to cement his authority
after a power struggle with the army.  The leadership change was “natural” and responsibility
has shifted “to a new generation of Egypt’s sons to begin a new
journey” to protect the nation, according to a statement posted
yesterday on a Facebook page affiliated with the council.  Mursi, who has been locked in a tug-of-war with the
military council since he took office in late June with the
backing of the Muslim Brotherhood, ordered the retirement of
Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi and armed forces Chief of
Staff Sami Enan. He also claimed legislative powers by voiding a
constitutional decree enacted by the military on June 17,
further asserting his authority in a nation whose population is
growing increasingly disgruntled about power cuts, security
lapses and a weak economy.  “This was probably the Brotherhood’s greatest tactical
success, that it was able to build strong-enough links with some
members of SCAF in order to exploit personal differences and tap
into opportunism rather than ideology,” Hani Sabra, Middle East
analyst with the Eurasia Group, wrote in an e-mailed note.
Members of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces “essentially
want to benefit financially from advancing in military ranks.”  Mursi was able to convince some senior generals, such as
the newly appointed Defense Minister General Abdelfatah al-Seesi
that “it would be better for them to tie their fortunes to the
Brotherhood and ‘democracy’ rather than the old guard,” Sabra
said.  Public Support  Mursi’s decision drew hundreds into  Tahrir Square  yesterday
for a second consecutive day, with supporters filling the plaza
in central Cairo for the night-time prayer. Many said they saw
his move as another step toward fulfilling the January 2011
uprising against the regime of  Hosni Mubarak .  Yasser Ali, Mursi’s spokesman, told reporters the president
had notified Tantawi and Enan of the decisions in advance and
had coordinated with the military council. He denied reports the
two men had been placed under house arrest, saying they had been
given two of the nation’s highest honors and appointed military
advisers to the president. Mursi also told al-Seesi to improve
the living conditions of the military, Ali said.  Egypt’s Islamist president has been struggling to restore
calm since being sworn in at the end of June. Daily protests and
power and water cuts have further angered Egyptians already
weary of the unrest of the past 18 months.  Ailing Economy  Egypt’s economy has struggled to rebound since last year’s
uprising, with political infighting and security lapses creating
the country’s worst economic crisis in over a decade. Foreign
reserves dropped to $14.4 billion in July from about $36 billion
at the end of December 2010. Meanwhile, a $3.2 billion
International Monetary Fund loan sought for more than a year has
yet to be approved.  Mursi’s retirement of Tantawi followed a shake-up in top
security posts after militants killed 16 soldiers in Sinai on
Aug. 5. The field marshal held the post under Mubarak for 20
years and was re-appointed to the defense portfolio in Prime
Minister Hisham Qandil’s government.  The president’s push to bolster civilian rule may backfire
if he tries to retain new powers indefinitely, said Omar Ashour,
director of Middle East studies at the University of Exeter in
the U.K. and a visiting fellow at the Brookings Doha Center.  “It’s too much power, definitely, in the hands of one
man,” he said in a telephone interview. “One thing is for
sure: if he heads for authoritarianism, he’ll be opposed.”  A new constitution that would define the authority of the
presidency has yet to be drafted.  U.S. Reaction  Newly appointed Vice President Mahmoud Mekki said Mursi was
acting within the powers granted to him by the people who
elected him, the state-run al-Ahram newspaper reported today.  The U.S. wasn’t surprised by Mursi’s decision to remove
Tantawi and Enan, Defense Department spokesman  George Little ,
told reporters yesterday at the Pentagon.  “We did expect at some point there to be changes in the
military leadership,” he said. “We believe we’ll be able to
maintain strong defense relations with Egypt. It’s important for
the military and political leadership in Egypt to continue to
work together to address both the economic and security
challenges facing that country.”  U.S. Training  The men named by Mursi to replace the departing generals
are well-known at the Pentagon and represent continuity in
relations between the two nations’ militaries, according to  Jon Alterman , director of Middle Eastern programs at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies, a Washington policy group.  Al-Seesi, the new defense minister, attended the U.S. Army
War College from 2005 to 2006, according to  Air Force  Lieutenant
Colonel Wesley Miller, a Pentagon spokesman. The war college,
which trains military leaders and is accredited to award
master’s degrees in strategic studies, is based in Carlisle,
 Pennsylvania .  Mursi named new commanders for the navy, air defense and
air force, the state-run Nile News channel reported today.  Abdul-Moneam Ibrahim Bayoumi was appointed head of the Air
Defence Command, Osama Ahmed el-Gendi as leader of the navy and
Younis Hamed el-Masry as head of the Egyptian air force, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  