-- Lehman Lives to Pay 18 Cents on Dollar With New Sales: Mortgages
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-08-14T20:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/lehman-lives-to-pay-18-cents-on-dollar-with-new-sales-mortgages.html
Hawaiian-condo investors, homebuyers
in  Montana  and travelers seeking a room at Miami Beach’s upscale
Setai Hotel all can turn to one company to meet their needs:
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Four years after filing the largest  bankruptcy  in U.S.
history amid soured real estate bets, Lehman is still in the
property business, wagering it can recover about $12.9 billion
from mortgages and assets around the globe. Its $3 billion
purchase this year of the remaining 53 percent of apartment
owner Archstone Inc. made it the biggest buyer of U.S.
commercial property by value in the last 12 months, according to
research firm Real Capital Analytics Inc.  Lehman has invested $5 billion in real estate since its
demise, acquiring loans and buying out joint venture partners.
Instead of selling to vulture investors, it’s waiting for
opportune times to unload properties as the commercial and
 residential  markets recover. The company last week moved to take
Archstone public to capitalize on soaring demand for rentals.  “The entire strategy was ‘don’t put yourself in a position
of having to sell,’” said Jeffrey Fitts, Lehman’s  New York- 
based head of real estate and a managing director at Alvarez &
Marsal, the advisory firm managing the liquidation. “If you’re
selling with a gun to your head and people know it, you’re dead
and you will leave hundreds of millions of dollars on the
table.”  Lehman aims to raise $53 billion through 2016, to pay
creditors an average of 18 cents on the dollar on about $300
billion of claims. The company made its first payment of $22.5
billion in April, about 53 percent more than it previously
estimated was possible, after exiting court protection.  Higher Recoveries  It intends to retain some assets at least through 2015,
according to a statement last month, in which the firm boosted
its forecast for real estate recoveries by $1.6 billion compared
with its outlook a year ago.  The bank filed for bankruptcy in September 2008, 158 years
after its founding as a cotton brokerage in  Alabama , and five
months after  David Einhorn , president of New York-based
Greenlight Capital Inc., said he was betting against Lehman’s
stock because he believed it overvalued some real estate assets.  Lehman failed because of too much debt and risky real
estate investments, according to a bankruptcy examiner’s report.
Chief Executive Officer Richard Fuld reported record earnings in
2005, 2006 and 2007 after riding the property boom. He bought
originators such as  Irvine , California-based BNC Mortgage, to
obtain subprime home loans to package into bonds, turning the
company into the largest U.S. underwriter of mortgage-backed
securities.  Archstone Faltered  Even as housing  prices  began to fall in 2006, the bank
continued making loans, including for commercial properties. In
October 2007, it financed and invested in the $22 billion
takeover of Archstone with Tishman Speyer Properties LP,
eventually converting the loans to equity after Archstone
faltered during the credit crisis.  Lehman listed total real estate assets of $23 billion the
day before its Sept. 15, 2008, bankruptcy. They had a market
value of about $14 billion nine months later, according to court
papers.  As of March 31, the firm reported commercial real estate
holdings of $9.6 billion, including more than $2 billion of
commercial mortgages and mezzanine loans. The tally doesn’t
include the final 26.5 percent stake in Archstone that Lehman
acquired in the second quarter from Bank of America Corp. and
Barclays Plc.  Justify Reinvestment  “If I were a creditor and I were not real estate savvy, I
would almost look at Lehman as my real estate department,” said
Lawrence Longua, director of the REIT Center at  New York 
University’s Schack Institute of Real Estate. “They’re taking
an asset and maximizing it. That should be beneficial to me as a
creditor.”  Lehman’s efforts rely on values continuing to climb, to
justify re-investing money that could have otherwise gone to
investors, he said.  “You’re in an industry that’s cyclical so it can turn
around and bite you,” Longua said. “There’s a risk to it, no
doubt about it.”  Commercial real estate prices in the U.S. were up 28
percent in May from their January 2010 low, according to the
Moody’s/Real Capital Analytics National All-Property Index.
Housing is also showing signs of recovery after  home prices , as
measured by the S&P/Case-Shiller index, plunged 33 percent from
a peak six years ago. Prices for single-family homes climbed in
three-quarters of U.S. cities in the second quarter, and the
national median  jumped  the most since 2006, the National
Association of Realtors said in an August 9 report.  Rental Bet  Lehman’s largest bet since filing for bankruptcy is on
rentals. The Archstone acquisition in May valued the business at
$16.5 billion, according to Real Capital, making the bank a
bigger buyer than  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest
private-equity firm, and  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the No. 1
U.S. mall owner.  It also turned Lehman into the  eighth-largest  apartment
manager in the country, overseeing 78,000 units, according to
the National Multi Housing Council, an apartment industry group
in  Washington .  It announced plans to take Archstone public as rising
national rents fuel investor demand to own apartment buildings.  Sales of apartment properties totaled $16.2 billion in the
three months ended June 30, the second highest quarterly total
since 2007, according to Real Capital. Apartment developers are
also hastening their acquisition of land sites, buying $2
billion worth in the first half of the year -- almost double the
total for all of 2011.  Limited Competition  The Bloomberg REIT Apartment Index of 16 publicly traded
landlords fell 0.6 percent in New York today as of 4 p.m.,
paring this year’s advance to 5.3 percent. It has more than
tripled from a low in March 2009.  “The timing makes sense,” Rod Petrik, an analyst with
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said in a telephone
interview. “You have at least a two-year window where
fundamentals are going to be strong and you are not going to
have the competition of new supply. So the matter of getting it
out and public gets Lehman a step closer to liquefying their
position.”  Petrik estimates Archstone may raise more than $1 billion
in the initial public offering, and that the stock would be sold
in several stages “over the next few years.” He expects Lehman
to sell assets as a way of paying down Archstone’s debt.  Hawaii Condos  Lehman’s also in the hospitality and homebuilding business.
In January it acquired Mooonlight Basin, a ski-and golf resort
community in Montana, and plans to begin marketing land to
homebuyers while operating a resort there, Fitts said. It’s also
planning to sell 73 unsold condo units at the Ritz-Carlton
Kapalua in  Hawaii  that it took over through foreclosure in
December after the borrower defaulted on a $260 million
mortgage.  Lehman could realize more money for creditors by marketing
the Hawaii condos and Montana development parcels itself, rather
than sell the assets to an investor who would ultimately do the
same, Fitts said.  “The mantra that we live with is: If it’s liquid and
stable then it’s time to think about selling it,” he said. “So
answering those two questions on every property is really what
we’re doing all day long.”  In Miami, where hotel revenue per available room climbed 11
percent in the year through June, Lehman isn’t planning to sell
the Setai, its luxury hotel on  South Beach , Fitts said. Lehman
replaced the hotel management in March, bringing in Trevi Luxury
Hospitality Group Inc.  Manhattan Hotel  Lehman also is keeping the On the Avenue Hotel on
 Manhattan ’s Upper West Side, which it gained control of through
a deed in lieu of foreclosure in June 2011, said Fitts. While
revenues per available hotel room in Manhattan climbed 5.7
percent in the year through June, Lehman is mulling whether to
renovate the 282-room property.  “On the Avenue would obviously generate a lot of interest
if we offer it for sale, but there are also some improvements
that can be made that could translate into meaningfully better
recoveries for Lehman creditors,” Fitts said.  Lehman is holding onto a 21-story Manhattan office building
at 237 Park Ave., after buying a $255 million junior note from
an investor in 2010 as a way of protecting its claim to the
property. The company financed the acquisition in 2007 with
about $1.23 billion in loans, according to a July 2011 filing.  Smaller Assets  Of the U.S. real estate assets still held by the Lehman
estate -- including joint ventures and loans -- 43 percent are
located in major metropolitan areas, where values are recovering
amid strong investor demand, according to Ben Carlos Thypin,
director of market analysis at Real Capital Analytics. The
majority are in smaller markets, such as Greensboro,  North
Carolina  and Norcross,  Georgia , where institutional investors
aren’t interested in buying, keeping values low, Thypin said.  “That means that no matter how quickly and profitably they
can liquidate the major market assets, the estate is still going
to be sorting through a lot of smaller assets in small markets
for years to come,” Thypin said.  Harder-to-sell assets, Thypin said, include 72 acres of
land for development in Tolleson,  Arizona ; a Super 8 Motel near
the Las Vegas airport and a 154-acre (62-hectare) development
site in  Delray Beach , Florida, in a metropolitan area where home
foreclosures climbed 24 percent in the first half from a year
earlier, according to RealtyTrac Inc.  Lehman Foreclosed  Lehman sold the Delray site in November for $23 million, a
54 percent discount to the approximately $50 million it was owed
on the property, including mortgage, interest and default
penalties, according to court records filed with the Palm Beach
County Clerk.  In Norcross, Lehman foreclosed on a 180-unit garden
apartment complex in June, according to Real Capital. It took
possession of a 100,000-square-foot (9,300-square-meter)
warehouse in Greensboro last year.  “In major markets, it’s a much easier sell to invest
capital, because they can recover that capital sooner,” Thypin
said. “In these smaller markets that recovery is much less
certain and on a much longer time horizon, so creditors would
prefer them to either take a loss now or hold onto it and
wait.”  Lehman has $8.2 billion of cash available for creditor
payments after raising $4.7 billion in the second quarter from
real estate sales, derivatives and settlement of a lawsuit,
according to a July regulatory filing.  The firm plans semi-annual distributions, including a
second payment to creditors in September and is “focused” on
maximizing cash for that purpose, according to the filing.  “I can’t tell you how many lunches and dinners and
meetings I’ve had with opportunistic guys, all of them very
smart and very good,” Fitts said of vulture real estate
investors seeking to buy some of Lehman’s assets.  “And I say to them: ‘If I sell to you I haven’t really
done my job.’ ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 