-- Elpida Bondholders Tell Court Micron Buyout Bid Too Cheap
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-08-14T05:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/elpida-bondholders-said-to-argue-micron-buyout-bid-too-low-1-.html
Elpida Memory Inc.’s bondholders
told a Tokyo court that  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) ’s takeover offer
for the bankrupt Japanese memory-chip maker is too low.  Elpida, which  sought   bankruptcy protection  in February, is
worth 300 billion yen ($3.8 billion), compared with Micron’s
proposed 200-billion yen offer, the bondholders said in a
statement today. The group, which represents 20 institutional
investors, submitted its version of a revival plan for the
chipmaker, which includes offering 30 billion yen in credit, the
group said.  It’s the second time in two months the bondholders are
opposing Micron’s proposal to buy Elpida, a combination that
would double the Boise, Idaho-based company’s share of the
global market for dynamic random access memory -- the most
widely used memory chips in personal computers. Chip prices have
risen  1.1 percent  this year after record low prices and supply
gluts caused manufacturers to post losses last year.  Elpida declined to comment on the filing. Dan Francisco, a
Micron spokesman, didn’t immediately return a call or e-mail
seeking comment on the bondholders’ proposal.  Shares of Micron fell 0.7 percent to $6.72 at the close in
 New York  yesterday, leaving them up 6.8 percent this year.  “The reality of the situation is that it’s a pretty
difficult memory market and this is the best offer from a
rigorous process,” Micron Chief Executive Officer Mark Durcan
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “We think it’s very
fair to Elpida shareholders.”  Micron Versus Samsung  The total amount of bonds held by the group is 100 billion
yen as of today, according to a spokesman for the group who
asked not to be identified, citing policy. That represents 72
percent of the 139 billion yen in bonds Elpida defaulted after
filing for bankruptcy.  The bondholders group, advised by Alvarez & Marsal and
Crosspoint Advisors, is seeking investors other than Micron, it
said. They will ask the court to present their revival plan in a
creditor vote, which may be held in October, according to the
statement.  Micron agreed to buy Elpida in July in a deal that may help
Micron vie with industry leader  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  while
giving it greater control over supply gluts that have caused it
to report  losses  amid falling prices.  Installment Payment  Micron agreed to pay 60 billion yen in cash at the closing
of the deal, while the remaining 140 billion yen in future
annual installments through 2019 will come from  cash flow 
generated by Micron’s payments for chips made by Elpida,
according to the July 2 statement.  Elpida sought protection from creditors in February after
lower prices of DRAM chips and a stronger yen, which erodes the
value of repatriated earnings from overseas, led the company to
report a fifth straight quarter of losses.  Micron, the largest U.S. maker of computer memory, won
approval from the Tokyo District Court in May to negotiate to
buy Elpida’s entire business after the Japanese company held two
rounds of bidding. The July 2 agreement is subject to approval
by the court. Elpida has a deadline to submit its revival plan
by Aug. 21.  Bondholders urged the court last month to reject the deal
and said they would submit an alternative plan, according to a
July 9 filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The companies plan to complete the sale in the first half
of 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  