-- Yen Drops on BOJ Stimulus Signs, Asian Stock Gains
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-08-14T06:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/euro-halts-gain-versus-dollar-yen-on-europe-concerns.html
The yen weakened versus all 16 major
counterparts as Asian shares rallied and minutes of the  Bank of
Japan (8301) ’s July meeting signaled policy members are considering
ways to expand stimulus.  Japan ’s currency slid for a second day against the euro as
Asian equities halted a two-day decline, curbing demand for
haven assets. The euro maintained gains after data today showed
France’s economy unexpectedly avoided a contraction and German
growth slowed less than forecast during the second quarter.  New
Zealand’s dollar  was supported after a report showed retail
sales increased by more than economists forecast.  “There’s going to be no change to the BOJ’s stance so long
as they’re short of their inflation goal,”  Sacha Tihanyi , a
Hong Kong-based senior currency strategist at Scotiabank, a unit
of  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , said in reference to the central bank’s
1 percent price target. Sentiment today “is looking a little
bit better, so I think that’s pretty much consistent with a
little bit of softening in the yen.”  The yen lost 0.2 percent to 78.46 per dollar as of 7:07
a.m. in  London . It fell 0.4 percent to 96.98 per euro. The 17-
nation currency advanced 0.3 percent to $1.2363 after rising 0.4
percent yesterday, the biggest one-day advance since Aug. 3.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares climbed 0.2 percent.  The BOJ avoided adding stimulus at its July meeting,
expanding its asset-purchase program to 45 trillion yen ($574
billion) from 40 trillion, while cutting its loan facility to 25
trillion yen from 30 trillion yen.  BOJ Options  A few board members said the BOJ shouldn’t rule out any
options in advance, while one said price gains without economic
improvement are not good, minutes of the gathering showed today.
The BOJ established its inflation goal in February.  Figures released yesterday showed  Japan’s economy  grew at
an annualized 1.4 percent in the three months through June 30,
missing economist estimates for a 2.3 percent pace.  The yen has declined 2.5 percent in 2012, the third-worst
performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro dropped 5.5
percent in the same period, the biggest slide among the gauge’s
members. The dollar fell 0.4 percent.  France ’s gross domestic product was unchanged in the second
quarter from the first, national statistics office Insee in
Paris said today in an e-mailed statement. Economists forecast a
0.1 percent decline, according to the median of 26 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Germany ’s GDP rose 0.3 percent from the first quarter, when
it gained 0.5 percent, the Federal Statistics Office said in
Wiesbaden today. Economists predicted a 0.2 percent increase,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg poll.  The euro region will report GDP figures later today.  Euro Technicals  The euro’s recent declines below its 21-day moving average
may signal a drop to 94.12 yen, Citigroup Inc.’s Tokyo-based
currency strategist Osamu Takashima wrote in a report published
today. The level was last seen on July 24 and was the least
since November 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
“The downside risk for the pair must obviously be larger than
the upside,” Takashima wrote.  A U.S. Commerce Department report today may show  retail
sales  climbed 0.3 percent last month, following a 0.5 percent
slide in June, according to the median estimate of economists
polled by Bloomberg. A separate report will probably show
producer prices increased in July, based on another survey.  “Everybody’s waiting to hear what the  Federal Reserve 
does,” Scotiabank’s Tihanyi said. “If you get continually weak
prints out of certain economic data points, it’s going to weaken
the dollar because of the expectation that the Fed will step in
to do monetary easing.”  Kiwi Dollar  The U.S. central bank has held its key rate in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 and plans to keep it there at
least through late 2014. The Fed also bought $2.3 trillion of
mortgage and Treasury debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of
so-called quantitative easing.  The  New Zealand dollar  strengthened after the statistics
bureau said today  sales  adjusted for inflation gained 1.3
percent in the three months through June. That compares with a
0.6 percent decline in the first quarter and a 0.7 percent gain
estimated in a Bloomberg survey.  “This is definitely a positive number,” said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
“That tells you the consumer sector is in decent health, and
the kiwi got a little bit of a boost.”  The so-called kiwi dollar rose 0.1 percent to 81.02 U.S.
cents. It added 0.3 percent to 63.54 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  