-- Ex-Bank of America Marketer Tells Jury He Helped Rig Bids
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-08-15T15:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/ex-bank-of-america-marketer-tells-jury-he-helped-rig-bids.html
(Corrects spelling of Gary Heinz’s name in fourth paragraph
of story published Aug. 14.)  A former  Bank of America Corp. 
municipal bond marketer testified that he conspired with four
former members of the  UBS AG (UBSN)  municipal derivatives group to rig
bids and fabricate work on transactions.  Doug Campbell, a senior marketer in the municipal
reinvestment and municipal  interest rate  hedging group at Bank
of America from 1998 to 2002, told a  Manhattan  federal jury
yesterday that he worked with the men at UBS to ensure Bank of
America won bids.  “Generally, it was a conspiracy to allocate and rig bids
in the municipal reinvestment market,” Campbell said. When UBS
employees initially approached him about an arrangement in which
he would get bid information in advance, “I did not turn down
the offer,” he said.  Campbell was testifying against Peter Ghavami, the former
head of UBS’s municipal derivatives group, and Michael Welty and
Gary Heinz, both former vice presidents and municipal
reinvestment marketers at UBS. The three are charged with
conspiracy to defraud municipal-bond issuers and U.S. tax
authorities by fixing prices on investing agreements.  Responding to questions from a government lawyer, Campbell
said he made a deal with the defendants that “UBS PaineWebber
would start showing us information about the transaction in
advance” and Bank of America would reciprocate through
submitting intentionally losing bids in some transactions and
involving UBS in Bank of America business when possible.  ‘To Reciprocate’  Campbell told jurors that after Mark Zaino, a former
employee on the bond desk in Zurich-based UBS’s  New York  office,
passed along advance information about an escrow transaction for
 Massachusetts , Campbell “was looking for ways to reciprocate.”  “I was hearing, certainly from Mark, ‘The desk is unhappy
with you. You need to reciprocate. We did you a big favor,’”
Campbell said.  To reciprocate, Campbell testified, he put UBS fees on
bills for other transactions, indicating to those clients that
UBS had advised in the matter when it had not. Zaino would then
submit an invoice for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America to pay UBS.  Campbell, 47, pleaded guilty in September 2010 to restraint
of trade, conspiracy to defraud municipal issuers and wire
fraud. He faces as long as 35 years in prison and several
million dollars in financial penalties, he told jurors. He’s
testifying as part of a cooperation agreement with the
government.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York
at   egrannis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 