-- Faber Pessimistic on China, Favors European Stocks: Tom Keene
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-08-14T07:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/faber-pessimistic-on-china-favors-european-stocks-tom-keene.html
China’s economy  will slow
“considerably,” said  Marc Faber , the publisher of the Gloom
Boom & Doom report, who is buying European stocks.  “The growth rate we had in the last 10 years, which was
around 10 percent annually, is going to slow down
considerably,” Faber told Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt in a
“Bloomberg Surveillance” radio interview yesterday. “I would
rather wait to buy Chinese stocks until we see the result of the
stimulus packages.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has tumbled 13 percent from
its high this year on March 2, while the Hang Seng  China 
Enterprises Index of mainland stocks traded in  Hong Kong  lost 16
percent amid concern the economic slowdown is deepening. The
Shanghai gauge slid 1.5 percent yesterday after Bank of America
Corp. joined Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Plc in cutting
economic growth forecasts for China. It rose 0.3 percent at the
close today.  Government data last week showed that Chinese exports grew
1 percent in July, missing the 8 percent median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Policy makers cut  interest
rates  in June and July after two reductions in banks’ reserve-
requirement ratios this year to counter the slowdown in the
economy, which grew 7.6 percent in the second quarter, the
slowest pace since 2009.  Faber is buying European stocks as declines related to
concern the euro may break up create opportunities for
investors. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  has risen 16 percent since
June 4 when it closed at the lowest level in more than five
months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The gauge is valued at
11.6 times estimated profit, while the Shanghai Composite trades
at a multiple of 9.6 times and the Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index is at 8.1 times.  European Premium  The Stoxx 600 traded at its  widest premium  to the Hang Seng
gauge on record on Aug. 8, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to January 2006. The Hong Kong measure
trades at a 36 percent discount to its five-year daily average,
while the European index trades at the same level as its average
over the same period.  European stocks have climbed for 10 weeks amid speculation
policy makers will do more to stimulate growth. European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said July 26 officials are prepared
to do whatever is needed to save the euro.  Hedge funds  that base investment decisions on economic
trends are unwinding bets against European stocks at the fastest
pace in three years, speculating policy makers will step up the
fight against the debt crisis. The degree by which macro funds
are trailing the Euro Stoxx 50 Index is narrowing at the fastest
rate since 2009, a sign managers are covering short sales by
buying shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Faber said on Feb. 2 he wouldn’t buy shares of Facebook
Inc., the social-networking website that filed to raise $5
billion in the largest Internet initial public offering on
record. The stock has tumbled 43 percent since the May IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net ;
Ken Prewitt in New York at 
 kprewitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ; 