-- Fisker Looks Into California Fire Involving Plug-In Karma
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-08-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/fisker-looks-into-california-fire-involving-plug-in-karma.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., a maker of
luxury plug-in hybrid cars backed by U.S. government loans, is
studying the cause of a California fire involving its $103,000
Karma sedan, the second such incident this year.  The fire occurred in Woodside, California, on Aug. 10,
 Roger Ormisher , a spokesman for the company, said in a phone
interview yesterday. Fisker engineers are examining the car with
investigators from  Pacific Rim Investigative Services Group , a
fire-analysis firm in Corona, California, he said.  The incident comes as Fisker works to improve its finances
and sales after losing access last year to a portion of a $529
million low-interest loan awarded by the U.S. Energy Department
in 2009. Fisker, co-founded by auto designer  Henrik Fisker , in
February stopped work at a Wilmington, Delaware, factory where
it planned to build a second car model after being cut off from
the funds.  “It looks as though the car may have been under-
engineered,” said  Jim Hall , a principal of 2953 Analytics Inc.,
a consulting firm in Birmingham, Michigan. “All vehicles are
complicated but a plug-in like Karma, that combines an electric
vehicle with a gasoline powertrain, is unusually challenging.”  A123 Systems Inc.  said in March said it would replace
flawed battery packs it supplied for Karmas that caused one of
the vehicles to shut down during testing by Consumer Reports
magazine this year.  NHTSA Studying  The car’s lithium-ion battery and its “new technology
components or unique exhaust routing” don’t appear to have
caused the fire, based on an initial review, Anaheim,
California-based Fisker said in an e-mailed statement. The cause
of an earlier fire involving a Karma in Sugar Land, Texas, which
is being investigated by the U.S. National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, hasn’t yet been identified.  NHTSA is aware of the California fire involving the Karma,
said  Lynda Tran , a spokeswoman for the agency in Washington.
NHTSA “will evaluate the available information to determine if
there are safety implications that merit additional agency
action,” she said yesterday in an e-mail.  Closely held Fisker has delivered more than 1,000 Karmas in
the U.S. and Europe since December, and counts actor  Leonardo DiCaprio  as a customer and investor. The Karma is able to travel
as far as 50 miles (80 kilometers) on lithium-ion batteries
before a gasoline engine is activated.  NHTSA in May held a forum on the safety of batteries in
electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles, almost a year after a
General Motors Co. Chevrolet Volt caught fire after a government
crash test.  The agency closed its investigation into that fire in
January, after GM agreed to add battery-pack protection to Volts
it had sold. Electric vehicles are no more prone to fires than
other autos, NHTSA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  