-- Groupon Sales Miss Estimates as Online Deal Demand Dims
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-08-14T20:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/groupon-sales-miss-estimates-as-online-deal-demand-dims.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  plunged to a record low
after the largest daily-deal website reported second-quarter
revenue that missed estimates as economic weakness in Europe
curbed online coupon sales.  The shares retreated 27 percent to $5.51 at the close in
 New York , the biggest decline since the company’s initial public
offering in November. The  stock  has lost 72 percent since the
IPO, leaving the company with a market value of $3.6 billion --
less than the $6 billion buyout offer Groupon received from
Google Inc. before it opted for an public market debut.  International revenue, which makes up more than half of the
total, was reduced by currency weakness and a lack of demand for
big-ticket items in  Europe , Groupon executives said. The results
suggest Groupon may be struggling to find new growth, said
Edward Woo, an analyst at Ascendiant Capital Markets LLC in
 Irvine ,  California .  “The business is maturing faster than investors may be
hoping for, and growth rates are slowing,” said Woo. “It’s
getting tough to grow when you’re already the biggest kid on the
block.”  Revenue rose 45 percent to $568.3 million, the Chicago-
based company said in a statement yesterday. That fell short of
the average analyst  estimate  of $575.3 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  International revenue increased 31 percent to $308.2
million in the second quarter, Groupon said. Growth would have
been 45 percent without the impact of foreign exchange rates,
the company said.  European Challenges  The company makes money by selling discounts -- known as
Groupons -- from businesses such as restaurants and nail salons.
It then splits the revenue with the businesses.  Second-quarter net income was $28.4 million, or 4 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $107.4 million, or 35 cents, a
year earlier. Excluding some costs, profit was 8 cents a share,
which incorporates a 4-cent gain from items including the
exchange of a minority interest in its China operations.
Analysts projected profit before items of 3 cents a share.  “We had some challenges in Europe,” Groupon Chief
Financial Officer Jason Child said in an interview yesterday.
“Because over half of our business is outside the U.S., the
strengthening of the  U.S. dollar  versus the variety of
currencies that we transacted declined since we gave guidance
last quarter.”  Groupon Goods  European shoppers bought fewer deals associated with
discretionary purchases of $100 or more in the quarter, Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  said on a call yesterday with
analysts.  A larger portion of sales came from Groupon Goods, an e-
commerce site for marked-down products. The service made up most
of the company’s $65.4 million in direct revenue, which more
than tripled from $19.2 million in the first quarter, Child told
analysts on the call.  Groupon’s marketing costs fell 58 percent to $88.4 million
in the second quarter from $212.7 million a year earlier. Third-
quarter revenue will be $580 million to $620 million, Groupon
said. That compares with an average analyst estimate of $607.4
million.  The company plans to add hundreds of workers to its office
in  Palo Alto , California, where it’s building a suite of
technology products for local merchants including Groupon
Scheduler, an online appointment-booking system, and Groupon
Rewards, a  loyalty program .  Last month, a third of transactions in  North America 
happened over mobile devices, the company said. That’s a higher
portion of sales on mobile than any other e-commerce company,
Mason said on the call.  LivingSocial, the top rival to Groupon, narrowed its losses
in the second quarter after revenue more than doubled to $138
million from $59 million a year earlier, according to a
regulatory filing by one of its backers, Amazon.com Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  