-- BBA Poised to Give Up Libor Oversight on Rigging Scandal
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-09-25T18:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/libor-failures-neuter-bba-as-lobby-may-lose-oversight-of-rate.html
The British Bankers’ Association
signaled it will give up oversight of the  London  interbank
offered rate following claims traders manipulated the benchmark.  Financial Services Authority Managing Director Martin Wheatley is reviewing whether to bring oversight of the
benchmark under the control of regulators after  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
Britain’s second-biggest lender, paid a record 290 million-pound
($471 million) fine in June for manipulating Libor. Regulators
worldwide are probing at least a dozen banks over allegations
they also tried to rig the rate.  “If Mr. Wheatley’s recommendations include a change of
responsibility for Libor, the BBA will support that,” the
London-based lobby group said in a statement today.  The BBA’s role as guardian of Libor, used to set rates for
for at least $300 trillion of securities, has been under
pressure since the  Bank for International Settlements  first
raised concern in 2008 that the benchmark was being manipulated.  The BBA’s response was branded inadequate by the Bank of
 England , while U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has said
private, unregulated bodies such as the BBA shouldn’t oversee
rates such as Libor.  “They have failed to pick up and respond to the signals
early enough so I’m not confident the BBA’s historic role has
been good,” Wheatley said at an Aug. 10 press conference in
London. “Frankly it hasn’t. It still remains an open question
as to whether from an industry perspective it’s still the best
body to continue with that.”  Increased Oversight  After regulators began to probe Libor again last year, the
BBA started another internal review of the benchmark. As
recently as June, that panel was set to resist calls to overhaul
the rate by basing it on actual transactions and instead favored
a beefed-up code of conduct and increased oversight, three
people briefed on the talks said at the time.  The BBA’s council passed a motion on Sept. 13 to give up
responsibility for overseeing the rate, two people with
knowledge of the plan said today. They asked not to be
identified because the meeting was private.  The BBA “didn’t live up to the responsibility that was
entrusted upon them,” said Tom Kirchmaier, a fellow in the
financial-markets group at the  London School of Economics . “It
was bad management. It’s sensible for them to say we can’t do it
anymore.”  Kirchmaier said Libor oversight shouldn’t go to other
regulators or the  Bank of England  because there may be a
conflict of interest.  London Dominance  “The big question is to make sure the price-setting
mechanism is robust and can’t be manipulated easily,” he said.
“It shouldn’t be a regulator running the show because it’s not
their job to set prices.”  The  BBA  represents more than 200 banks and lobbies policy
makers and regulators on behalf of the industry. The century-old
group helped to introduce Libor in January 1986 to cement
London’s dominance in the markets for syndicated loans and
 interest-rate swaps . The benchmark is determined by a daily poll
carried out on behalf of the BBA that asks banks to estimate how
much it would cost to borrow from one another for different
periods and in different currencies.  Dan Doctoroff , chief executive officer of Bloomberg LP,
proposed an alternative to Libor, dubbed the Bloomberg Interbank
Offered Rate, in a Wall Street Journal opinion piece last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  