-- Mitsubishi UFJ Lease Said Near Deal for Oaktree Business
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-08-14T07:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/mitsubishi-ufj-lease-said-near-deal-for-oaktree-business.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Co. (8593) 
is nearing a  deal  to buy  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) ’s Jackson
Square Aviation aircraft-leasing company for more than $1
billion, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  A deal may be struck within weeks, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the talks are private. The
negotiations could still collapse. Mitsubishi UFJ Lease is an
affiliate of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s
biggest publicly traded bank.  Japanese financial firms are expanding into aircraft
leasing amid increasing demand for planes from  emerging markets 
such as China.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s
second-largest bank by market value, bought Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s aircraft leasing unit this year, while Orix
Corp.’s aviation unit plans to boost customers by 50 percent.  “The number of deliveries every year is going up,” said
Paul Sheridan, head of consulting in Hong Kong at Ascend
Worldwide Ltd. “Aircraft leasing offers attractive yields to
investors, but you need expertise and experience and you need
access to U.S. dollars.”  San Francisco Start  Jackson Square, named after the  San Francisco  district
where it’s based, began operating in 2010 after Oaktree
committed $500 million in equity to Richard Wiley, Toby Bright
and Scott Weiss. They would stay with the company after a sale
to Mitsubishi UFJ Lease, two of the people said.  The trio founded Pegasus Aviation Finance Co., sold it in
2007 to Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd. and then created Sky
Holding Co., which was renamed Jackson Square with Oaktree’s
involvement. Wiley has worked with Oaktree since the mid-1990s,
doing more than $6 billion in aircraft transactions through
Pegasus.  Takashi Ota, a spokesman for Mitsubishi UFJ Lease in Tokyo,
declined to comment, as did Chelsea Bruzzone, a spokeswoman for
Jackson Square. An Oaktree official didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  Jackson Square has a fleet of more than 70 commercial jets,
valued at more than $4 billion. Its planes are in service with
carriers including  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, Emirates Airline and
Virgin America Inc.  Mitsubishi Links  Mitsubishi UFJ Lease is one of the largest leasing
companies in Japan, and it gets business referrals from both
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , the Tokyo based
trading company, both of which are major shareholders, according
to  Standard & Poor’s .  Shares of Mitsubishi UFJ Lease were unchanged at 3,495 yen
at the close of Tokyo trading today. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
declined 1.9 percent to 361 yen and Mitsubishi Corp. fell 0.2
percent to 1,560 yen. The benchmark  Topix Index (TPX)  gained 0.4
percent.  Japanese companies have also been turning to takeovers
outside the country amid dimming growth prospects at home.  They struck a record $87.8 billion in acquisitions of non-
Japanese companies in 2011, led by Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.’s
6.3 billion euro ($9.1 billion) takeover of Zurich-based
Nycomed. Trading company Marubeni Corp. agreed in May to buy
Omaha, Nebraska-based Gavilon Group LLC.  The jet-leasing industry has been growing since its birth
in the 1970s, and about 35 percent of the global fleet is now
leased rather than owned, up from 25 percent in 2000, according
to a Fitch Ratings report last month. Airlines will take 34,000
new planes valued at $4.5 trillion through 2031, Chicago-based
Boeing Co. said last month. That’s a 1.5 percent increase from a
33,500-jet estimate a year earlier.  Jackson Square’s competitors include units of  General
Electric Co. (GE) ,  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  CIT Group
Inc. (CIT)  as well as independent companies such as  Air Lease Corp. (AL) 
and  AerCap Holdings NV. (AER)   The company specializes in sale-leaseback deals,
functioning as a third-party financier. In such transactions,
airlines order jets, getting discounts off the purchase price,
and then seek to preserve cash by selling the planes to lessors
and signing operating leases instead.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  