-- Japan’s Executives Swelter in Solidarity to Save Power
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-08-14T09:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/japan-s-executives-swelter-in-solidarity-to-save-power.html
The 32-degree Celsius (90-degree
Fahrenheit) heat outside  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s office prompts  health
warnings  from the national weather agency. Inside in an
executive meeting room, it’s only four degrees cooler as
President Takanobu Ito swelters.  “We are already used to being in this warm office,” Ito
said, gesturing with his short-sleeved arms as a spokesman stirs
the air with a paper fan. “We hope visitors understand the heat
is part of our effort to save energy.”  The 28 degree Celsius atmosphere in Honda’s 17-story  Tokyo 
tower is now standard in offices participating in the
government-led “Cool Biz” campaign to cut air-conditioning
power use. Executive suites including Ito’s are no exception in
a practice that has also become an expression of solidarity
after last year’s nuclear power-plant disaster cost the country
nearly its entire supply of atomic energy.  Cool Biz and conservation steps including a switch to
light-emitting diode lamps have helped  Japan  cut energy use more
than three times faster than the Organization for Economic Co-
operation and Development country average. In the six years
since the campaign began, primary energy use has dropped 9.4
percent in Japan, compared with the 2.5 percent average decline
for OECD countries, according to Bloomberg calculations using
data from the  BP Statistical Review of World Energy .  Power-saving measures taken immediately after the nuclear
disaster that followed last year’s earthquake, such as the
idling of escalators and dimming of train-station lights, also
contributed to 2011’s decline in consumption.  Hotter This Summer  At  Eaccess Ltd. (9427) , a Tokyo-based wireless communications
provider owned partly by a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. affiliate,
the executive suite is even hotter this summer than last, said
Chairman Sachio Semmoto.  “Our procurement department has been flooded with orders
for mini-desk fans,” said Semmoto, who is taking longer morning
runs so he feels more refreshed in his stuffy office.  At Japan Airlines Co.’s Tokyo offices, President Yoshiharu Ueki shares an open office with nine other executives where the
thermostat is set at 28 degrees.  Ueki said he’s not really bothered by the heat, but does
carry a handkerchief that comes in handy to mop his brow.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  also works in a building kept at
28 degrees in Tokyo’s government office district. The ministry
has installed automatically dimming lights that save power,
making it harder to see the minister coming at a distance,
wearing short sleeves and no tie.  Tieless Geithner?  Azumi’s counterpart, Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner , would
probably insist on business attire, said Yasushi Hamao, a
finance and economics professor at the  University of Southern
California ’s Marshall School of Business.  “I cannot imagine Geithner showing up with no tie,” said
Hamao. He said a similar campaign would gain little traction in
the U.S., where executives would balk at working in an 82-degree
Fahrenheit (28 degrees Celsius) office. “They’ll say, ’This
decreases productivity.’”  They would have a point, according to  research  by the E.O.
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory at the  University of
California  and 23 other studies used by  Cornell University  to
generate a productivity calculator on its ergonomics website.
The  calculator  estimates that productivity at Cool Biz’s 82
degrees Fahrenheit would be almost 6 percent below levels at the
ideal office temperature of 71 degrees Fahrenheit.  Still, Japanese companies may be saving on their power
bills.  Permission to Air-Condition  Rakuten Inc. (4755) , the nation’s biggest Internet retailer,
trimmed 40 percent off its electric power consumption last year
from 2010 levels, said Akio Sugihara, senior executive officer
at the Tokyo-based company.  Managers at the company’s headquarters in the capital set
the thermostat at about 28 degrees and turn off air-conditioning
altogether after 6 p.m., unless employees apply for permission
to work late, he said.  To ease the transition, the Internet retailer promoted a
“ Rakuten Hawaiian Summer ” theme in its offices, posting
announcements clarifying that sandals and shorts are acceptable
office attire, Sugihara said. “We are allowing employees to
dress down drastically.”  North Compton, who meets hundreds of executives a year as
Japan director for  Management Recruiters International Inc. ,
said he’s started getting e-mails warning him that the “Cool
Biz” dress code allowing casual wear will be observed.  “You’re talking country managers, directors of major
companies,” Compton said by phone. “They’re wearing polo
shirts and chino pants. That was unspeakable even two years
ago.”  Alpine Escape  Polo-wearing Japanese business leaders have another way to
escape their steamy offices: leave town for a business
conference.  Keidanren , the country’s main corporate lobbying
organization, holds its annual summer meeting at a mountain
resort 70 minutes northwest of Tokyo by bullet train in
Karuizawa, Nagano prefecture. Chief executives, political
leaders and news reporters mingle at the resort in an area where
the average August temperature was 26 degrees Celsius last year,
compared with 29 degrees for Tokyo.  Nuclear Crisis  For Japanese companies participating in Cool Biz, the
prospect of power shortages after last year’s disaster at  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic station is
trumping concerns about comfort, productivity and fashion,
Kazuharu Aizawa, an environment ministry spokesman, said in an
e-mail.  Safety checks at atomic power stations nationwide following
last year’s earthquake left Japan with no nuclear power for
nearly two months this spring. Only two of the country’s 50
functioning reactors are operating. Prior to the accident,
nuclear power provided Japan with almost 30 percent of its
electricity.  Softer Line  Power-supply concerns probably boosted Cool Biz
participation beyond the 53 percent of businesses tallied in
2010, when the ministry conducted its most recent survey, Aizawa
said. That was up from about 43 percent in 2006, a year after
the ministry began the first version of the campaign.  That leaves room for more companies to get on board.  Tadashi Yanai, founder of Fast Retailing Inc. and Japan’s
richest man, is projecting record profit for the casual clothing
maker, propelled partly by demand for chinos and polos.  Still, the Tokyo Midtown office tower where he works is
taking a softer line on keeping workers cool.  Tokyo Midtown Management Co. sets thermostats in public
areas of the building at 27 degrees Celsius and recommends
tenants set theirs at 26.5 degrees Celsius, Tomomi Kaneko, a
spokeswoman for the  Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801)  unit, said by phone.  “Last summer, we recommended our tenants set their their
temperature at 27 degrees Celsius,” Kaneko said. “But some of
our tenants have more office workers than others, and it was too
hot for them, so this year, we are recommending 26.5 degrees
Celsius.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  