-- JPMorgan Sued by Community College Over Bond Contract
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-08-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/jpmorgan-sued-by-community-college-over-bond-contract.html
JPMorgan Securities  LLC was sued by
an Oakland, California-based  community college  over claims that
a $25 million bond contract will require the issuance of bonds
that will give the bank a windfall.  Peralta Community College  claims the bond purchase
contract, which was part of a 2006 bond refinancing deal, is
unconstitutional under a 2009 legal opinion by the California
Attorney General. The opinion determined that so-called cash-out
bond refundings violate state law, according to a lawsuit filed
yesterday in state court in Oakland.  In such deals, which were once common in California, school
districts refinanced existing bonds by issuing new bonds at
above-market  interest rates  that could be sold at a premium and
provide more cash than needed to retire debt for purposes other
than those promised to voters when they approved the bond
measures, Peralta said in the filing.  State lawyers said in 2009 the  California  Constitution bans
school districts from taking on additional debt in a refinancing
of taxpayer-approved bonds without a public vote.  The college’s 2006 contract was originally with Bear
Stearns Cos., which was acquired by JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
2008. Under the “forward bond purchase contract,” the school
district would redeem callable bonds, issue new non-callable
bonds and sell the new bonds to Bear Stearns.  Bear Stearns  In exchange, Bear Stearns paid the college $550,000,
according to the the filing. JPMorgan notified Peralta in June
that it wished to exercise the contract and demanded the college
issue new bonds at the states interest rates, which are much
higher than current rates, according to the complaint.  “J.P. Morgan Chase’s plan would wrongly shift savings from
interest rate declines away from taxpayers and to J.P. Morgan’s
bottom line,” Peralta said in an e-mailed statement. “This
improper money-grab comes at a time when J.P. Morgan Chase knows
California schools are under significant financial pressure.”  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  JPMorgan has told the college it could make as much as $4
million on the bonds, lawyers for Peralta said in a complaint.  The case is Peralta Community College District v. JPMorgan
Securities, RG12-643254, California Superior Court, Alameda
County (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Blumberg at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net  