-- Kodak, Creditors to Extend Deadline for Patent Auction
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-08-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/kodak-creditors-to-extend-deadline-for-patent-auction.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the bankrupt
photography pioneer, said its digital-imaging patents auction
will proceed beyond yesterday’s deadline, without providing a
revised target date.  “Kodak and its creditors have agreed to extend the
timeline for announcing the outcome of the patent auction in
light of continuing discussions with bidders,” Rochester, New
York-based Kodak said yesterday in a statement. “The auction,
which is a complex and dynamic process, is ongoing. Like all
participants, Kodak is still bound by the court order on
confidentiality, and cannot comment further at this time.”  The two patent portfolios for sale relate to the capture,
manipulation and sharing of digital images. Kodak is selling the
patents to fund a turnaround after seeking Chapter 11 protection
in January, pursuing a plan to shrink the company and focus on
printing rather than photography. Chief Executive Officer
Antonio Perez is pushing ahead with the sale amid legal fights
with device makers, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , over the ownership and
validity of some of the patents.  In court documents, Rochester, New York-based Kodak has
said the patents may be worth $2.21 billion to $2.57 billion,
based on an estimate by patent advisory firm 284 Partners LLC.
Kodak said it has generated more than $3 billion in revenue by
licensing some of the digital-imaging patents to users,
including  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ,  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit and  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   Bidding Process  Kodak said in June that 20 parties had signed agreements to
view confidential information ahead of potential bids. The
identities of unsuccessful bidders will be kept secret under
auction rules.  Kodak filed for bankruptcy after years of burning through
cash when digital photography eroded its film business. The
company had spent $3.4 billion on restructuring before
bankruptcy, including payouts to shed 47,000 employees since
2003, closing 13 factories that produced film, paper and
chemicals, and 130 photo laboratories.  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  