-- NBC Says Olympics Drew 219.4 Million Viewers, Topping 2008 Games
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-08-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/nbc-says-london-games-were-most-watched-u-s-televised-event-1-.html
The London Olympics drew 219.4
million U.S. viewers, overtaking the 2008 games in Beijing to
become the nation’s most watched television event ever, as gold-
medal performances by Americans bolstered ratings.  Total viewership topped the 215 million that tuned in to
the Beijing broadcast, according to a statement yesterday from
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  NBC Universal  division, which cited Nielsen
ratings. NBC sold about $1.25 billion in advertising, beating
the $850 million for the 2008 Olympics.  Though NBC drew criticism for not airing more of the games
live, showcasing taped events in prime time “undeniably”
helped ratings, NBC Sports Chairman Mark Lazarus said. He said
he wondered if NBC should have tape-delayed more events, such as
the U.S. men’s gold-medal basketball game and the men’s tennis
finals between  Andy Murray  and  Roger Federer , which were live.  “It’s undeniable we hurt our ratings by doing that,”
Lazarus said in a phone interview. “We have to balance what
we’re trying to do for viewers across the country and our
business model.”  The performances of American athletes -- who won a world-
best 104 medals, including 46 gold -- also helped drive ratings,
said Andy Donchin, director of media investments for Carat  North
America , an advertising firm.  Phelps’s Gold  Despite the outcry over tape-delaying marquee events,
including Michael Phelps’s four gold-medal swims and Gabby Douglas’s first-place performance in the women’s gymnastics all-
around, NBC successfully persuaded audiences to tune in several
hours after the competitions took place.  “In a way, knowing  Michael Phelps  or Gabby Douglas won a
medal may make you watch even more,” said Donchin, who is based
in  New York . “Even tape delayed, you still want to see it.”  The better-than-expected ratings mean that the broadcaster
may turn a profit on the games, Lazarus said. Ad sales beat
internal projections by 15 percent to 20 percent, he said. NBC
had previously forecast a loss of about $200 million.  The network won’t know if it made money on the event for
“several weeks” as it completes its accounting, Greg Hughes, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Advertisers are “very, very happy” with the ratings,
Donchin said, a testament to the way event-based television can
draw large audiences.  Next Time  “The main sponsors -- McDonald’s, Coca-Cola, P&G -- this
only encourages them to continue their investment,” Donchin
said. “I wouldn’t be surprised to see several companies that
ran commercials during the games to step up and become sponsors
the next time around.”  The viewership was helped by a growing population and a
wider array of channels showing the Olympics, including MSNBC
and  Bravo . NBC’s prime-time broadcast averaged 31.1 million
viewers. While that was 12 percent higher than the Beijing games
and 26 percent above the Athens Olympics in 2004, it ranked
below Atlanta’s in 1996.  NBC, which paid $1.18 billion for the rights to the London
Olympics, had initially projected lower ratings versus the
Beijing games. The network provided live online coverage of
every Olympic event for the first time. Users needed to show
that they were a pay-TV subscriber to get access.  NBC may allow more events to be seen by non-cable
subscribers in future Olympics, although any new packages will
have to be approved by NBC’s cable operator partners, Lazarus
said. The next summer games will be held in Rio de Janeiro.  Comcast, the cable-TV provider based in Philadelphia,
acquired control of NBC Universal for $13.8 billion in January
2011. The business, which includes TV, film and theme-park
units, contributed about 36 percent of Comcast’s sales in the
second quarter.  “The ratings from day one exceeded everyone’s
expectations,” said Todd Gordon,  managing director  of Magna
Global, the media-buying arm of advertising holding company
Interpublic Group of Cos. “The ratings were up so much for
Beijing I think people really assumed that beating those ratings
weren’t going to be realistic. To exceed those numbers
consistently throughout the games was pretty extraordinary.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  