-- Noda May Skip S. Korea Summit After Lee Disputed Isles Trip
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-08-13T03:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/noda-may-skip-s-korea-summit-after-lee-disputed-isles-trip-1-.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  may postpone a summit next month with South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  after Lee’s visit to islets claimed by
both countries, the Nikkei newspaper reported.  South Korea and Japan were arranging a meeting between the
two leaders on Sept. 8 at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
summit in Vladivostok,  Russia , the paper said yesterday, without
citing anyone. The report came after Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba  said on Aug. 11 Japan may refer the dispute to the  United
Nations ’ International Court of Justice.  Lee’s Aug. 10 trip to the islets, known as Dokdo in Korean
and Takeshima in Japanese, exacerbated tensions between Asia’s
second and fourth-biggest economies. The two countries are mired
in a dispute over compensating women who served as sex slaves
during Japan’s colonial occupation of Korea, which led to the
last minute postponement of a defense pact in June.  “We have to get the international community to clearly
understand our claims,” Gemba told reporters, according to a
transcript on the Foreign Ministry’s website. “In order to
achieve a peaceful resolution to this, we are considering
measures that include appealing to the ICJ.”  A meeting between Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  and
South Korean counterpart Bahk Jae Wan set for as early as this
month has been postponed, according to a Japanese Finance
Ministry official who spoke on condition of anonymity due to
ministry policy.  Kyodo News  previously reported the delay.  Drills Postponed  Separately, South Korea postponed annual military drills
near the disputed area, Joint Chiefs of Staff spokesman Lee Bung
Woo said today in  Seoul . The drills will be held sometime next
month instead of mid-August, Lee said.  Japan is also engaged in a territorial spat with  China  over
islands in the  East China Sea . A group of Hong Kong activists
yesterday left on a boat to visit the chain, known as Diaoyu in
Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese, to support China’s claim, Kyodo
said.  Lee’s visit to the rocky islets, the first by a South
Korean president, prompted Japan to recall its ambassador to
Seoul and call in  South Korea ’s envoy to  Tokyo  in protest. South
Korea has bolstered its claims by stationing coast guard
personnel there year-round and by building an offshore research
center nearby.  Noda called Lee’s trip “unacceptable” at an Aug. 10
nationally televised press conference.  ‘Extremely Regrettable’  “I have made efforts with South Korea’s President Lee to
build a forward-looking relationship and in that context this is
extremely regrettable,” he said.  The rocks lie 87 kilometers (54 miles) east from the
closest South Korean territory, Ulleung Island, and 158
kilometers from the nearest Japanese land. The area includes
fishing grounds and natural gas reserves and may also have oil,
according to a South Korean government  website .  In an indication of the friction the dispute has caused, a
South Korean soccer player at the London Olympics held up a sign
saying “Dokdo is our territory” in Korean after his team
defeated Japan 2-0 on Aug. 10 to win the bronze medal. He was
banned from the medal ceremony as a result.  Any appeal to the international  court  may have a limited
impact because both parties have to recognize its jurisdiction
in the matter, something South  Korea  has declined to do. Japan
has twice brought the issue before the UN body to no avail.  South Korea last year said it will spend 400 billion won
($354 million) to build a breakwater, a power plant, an
underwater observatory and a tunnel on the islets beginning in
2013. The dispute almost provoked a clash in April 2006, when
South Korean gunboats went on alert to block a planned Japanese
Coast Guard survey.  Lee’s government on June 29 postponed an agreement with
Japan to share military intelligence hours before it was to be
signed because of domestic opposition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  