-- Olympic Success Sees Mayor Touted to Succeed Cameron
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-08-14T08:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/olympic-success-sees-london-s-johnson-touted-to-succeed-cameron.html
As a child,  London  Mayor  Boris Johnson  wanted to be “world king.” After an Olympic fortnight
that had crowds chanting his name, Conservative lawmakers are
floating the idea that he could yet be prime minister.  As the popularity of incumbent David Cameron falls amid a
deepening recession, Johnson is increasingly being talked about
as a possible successor. His supporters point to his re-election
in May against an anti-Tory trend, the successful staging of the
Olympics and his status as the most charismatic figure in
British politics.  The fact that Johnson, 48, is being touted as a future
leader of  Europe ’s third-largest economy shows how he has turned
an unconventional political resume into an advantage. He doesn’t
have a seat in Parliament; he was fired as a Conservative Party
spokesman in 2004 for lying about an extramarital affair; and he
defends banks such as  Standard Chartered  Plc at a time when
scandal still tarnishes the industry’s image.  “That Tories have been fantasizing about him for a while
now is a telling mark of their desperation,” Tim Bale,
professor of politics at  Sussex University , said in an
interview. “Some see their only hope as appealing to the
country, not so much on policies as on personality.”  Asked whether he wanted to be the next prime minister,
Johnson told ITV News yesterday: “David Cameron is doing a
wonderful job in tough circumstances. In the immortal phrase of
Michael Heseltine, ‘I cannot foresee the circumstances.’”  Thatcher’s Downfall  Heseltine, a former Cabinet minister, went on to challenge
 Margaret Thatcher  for the Conservative leadership in 1990,
helping to bring about her downfall. Earlier this week, Cameron
was asked about Johnson’s leadership prospects, to which he
replied by describing the mayor as one of a number of “titans”
in his party.  Johnson has been invited to address a committee of rank-
and-file Tories in the coming months on the lessons of his
mayoral victory. It will be an opportunity to test levels of
support once the euphoria over the Olympics has subsided.  New York-born Johnson is currently enjoying a bounce from
the games, which ended on Aug. 12. Britain had its best medals
haul for more than a century including 29 golds, putting the
country in third place behind the U.S. and  China . And the
 public-transport network  ran smoothly, defying predictions of
chaos as passenger numbers on the  subway system  surged by 30
percent.  Mitt Romney  At a central London concert on the eve of the games,
Johnson addressed a crowd of tens of thousands, who chanted
“Boris, Boris.” And he took a swipe at the U.S. Republican
presidential candidate, who had suggested London was unprepared.  “I hear there’s a guy called  Mitt Romney  who wants to know
whether we’re ready,” Johnson roared. “He wants to know
whether we’re ready. Are we ready? Are we ready? Yes, we are!”  Twenty-four percent of 1,787 voters questioned by YouGov
Plc Aug. 2-3 said Johnson should be the next Tory leader,
putting him ahead of Foreign Secretary  William Hague  and well
above Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who was the
preferred candidate of just 3 percent.  A July 30 opinion poll for the  ConservativeHome  website
showed almost a third of rank-and-file Tories wanted Johnson to
take over as leader once Cameron steps aside. William Hill Plc
shortened the odds on Johnson succeeding Cameron to 3/1
yesterday, meaning a successful one-pound bet would yield three
pounds profit, from 4/1.  Economic Woes  Speculation Johnson is testing his leadership chances
comes as Cameron struggles to lift Britain out of recession and
his government pushes through the deepest spending cuts in
peacetime history. The economy shrank 0.7 percent in the second
quarter and  unemployment  is close to rates last seen in 1996 at
8.1 percent.  The slump has  taken its toll  on the Conservatives, which
came to power in coalition with the Liberal Democrats after
inconclusive elections in May 2010. A YouGov poll ending Aug. 1
gave the Tories the support of 34 percent of voters, six
percentage points behind the opposition  Labour Party . Asking
people how they’d vote were Johnson leader lifted the
Conservative total to 37 percent, one point behind Labour.  Much of Johnson’s appeal is based on a reputation for being
“unspun.” He joked about a publicity stunt to promote the
Olympics on Aug. 1 where he got stuck half way down a zipwire,
carrying two British flags. “How on earth can you elect that
guy?” he asked.  Independent Stance  As mayor, Johnson has regularly criticized government
policies, arguing for an end to “banker-bashing” and defending
immigration. He has attacked cuts to police numbers and said
reducing social-housing subsidies would push poorer people out
of central London and lead to “Kosovo-style social cleansing.”  On  the economy , he urged the government to spur investment
by cutting the top 50 percent income-tax rate, which it did in
March. More recently, he has called for steps to encourage
companies to hire workers and more spending on infrastructure.  Last week, he made an outspoken attack on U.S. regulators
for threatening to strip Standard Chartered of its  New York 
license for allegedly breaching sanctions, saying the action was
“high-handed” and motivated by jealousy of London as a
financial center.  Johnson is among the most instantly recognizable
politicians in Britain. Known for his shock of blond hair and a
fondness for reciting Latin -- he studied classics at Oxford
University -- the bicycle-riding mayor is generally referred to
just by his first name.  Second Term  In May, he came from behind in opinion polls to see off
another celebrity politician, Labour’s  Ken Livingstone , and win
a second term as London mayor as the Tories lost seats to Labour
in local elections across England and Wales. With 5.8 million
voters, that gives him the largest personal constituency of any
British politician.  Johnson was a contemporary of Cameron at Eton College, the
32,000-pound ($50,000) a year boarding school near London that
has educated 19 British prime ministers, and at university.  He began his career as a journalist at the  Times newspaper ,
which fired him for falsifying quotes. He later edited the
Conservative-supporting Spectator magazine and was forced to
apologize to the city of Liverpool in 2004 for an editorial that
accused its residents of wallowing in “victim status” over the
murder of hostage Ken Bigley in  Iraq .  Johnson soon hit more serious trouble when newspapers
reported that he’d had a four-year affair, leading his mistress
to have an abortion. He initially denied the story, and when it
was confirmed, Conservative leader  Michael Howard  fired him as a
government arts spokesman for having lied.  ‘Gaffes and Bluster’  While sex scandals aren’t necessarily fatal in British
politics, Johnson’s reputation would make the transition to the
highest level of politics difficult, according to  Justin Fisher ,
professor of politics at Brunel University in London.  “Whereas a mayor can get away with gaffes and bluster, a
prime minister would find it rather different,” he said in an
interview. “You need someone who can shake the hand of the U.S.
president.”  Johnson faces other obstacles. British prime ministers have
to have seats in the House of Commons and Johnson resigned his
to run for London mayor. His mayoral term ends in 2016, a year
after next general election. To run for Parliament, he’d have to
find a vacant, winnable electoral district, and then deal with
questions about trying to do two jobs at once.  No Vacancy  There is also the lack of a vacancy for Conservative
leader. If Cameron wins the 2015 election, he’s unlikely to quit
or be replaced for years, meaning younger candidates may emerge.
If he loses, he may quit much sooner, possibly before Johnson
had got back into Parliament. Were he a candidate, Johnson would
have to persuade Conservative lawmakers and then activists that
he was the right man to lead the party for years of opposition.  Conservative leadership elections are hard to predict. The
last three contested votes, in 1997, 2001 and 2005, were won by
someone who started the race as an outsider. Whether that would
help or hinder Johnson remains to be seen.  “Tories like him because he’s not  David Cameron ,” said
 Steven Fielding , professor of politics at Nottingham University.
“He seems to be able to persuade people that he’s a traditional
Tory and yet not a traditional Tory. It’s a trick you can pull
off as long as you’re the guy on the sidelines. It’s much harder
when you’re the guy in the hot seat.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 