-- Peregrine CEO Russell Wasendorf Indicted on 31 Counts
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-14T16:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/peregrine-chief-russell-wasendorf-indicted-on-31-counts.html
Russell R. Wasendorf Sr., chief
executive officer of the collapsed commodity firm Peregrine
Financial Group Inc., was indicted by a federal grand jury on
31 counts of making false statements to regulators.  “On 31 occasions between about February 2010 and June
2012, Wasendorf caused false reports to be submitted to the
United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission,” Stephanie
M. Rose, a U.S. prosecutor in  Cedar Rapids ,  Iowa , said in a
statement, citing an indictment filed yesterday.  Wasendorf, 64, faces a top sentence of 155 years in prison
and a maximum fine of $7.75 million if convicted on all counts,
Rose said.  The founder and chairman of Peregrine Financial has been in
U.S. custody since his arrest on July 13. He is scheduled to be
arraigned on Aug. 17, according to an entry today in the court’s
electronic docket.  Four days before his arrest, Wasendorf attempted suicide
outside his firm’s  Cedar Falls , Iowa, headquarters, the same day
the  National Futures Association  announced a shortfall of more
than $200 million in customer funds that the firm had reported
on deposit at  U.S. Bank  just days before.  The CFTC on July 10 sued the firm and Wasendorf, claiming
they had misappropriated the missing money. Peregrine filed for
bankruptcy in Chicago, where it also had offices, later that
same day.  Attempted Suicide  In a statement found with Wasendorf when he tried to kill
himself, the CEO confessed to embezzling from Peregrine for
almost two decades, according to an FBI affidavit filed with the
court upon his arrest.  A  Federal Bureau of Investigation  special agent, William
Langdon, also wrote that Wasendorf made a hospital bed admission
to stealing at least $100 million from the firm.  Federal Public Defender Jane Kelly of Cedar Rapids is
representing Wasendorf, whose assets have been frozen by a
federal court order. She didn’t reply yesterday to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-cr-2012, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Iowa (Waterloo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 