-- Petrobras Output Drops on Chevron Field Loss
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-08-16T17:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/petrobras-output-drops-on-chevron-field-loss-corporate-brazil.html
(Corrects eighth paragraph to say Petrobras’s production
per share dropped 0.7 percent in the second quarter in story
published on Aug. 13.)  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the world’s
worst-performing major oil company this year, is heading for its
first annual output drop since 2004 as offshore discoveries fail
to counter declines at aging fields.  Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based company is known,
had its first  loss  in more than a decade in the second quarter
after output fell 1.1 percent amid declines at the offshore
Campos Basin, maintenance-related shutdowns at platforms and the
closing of  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Frade field, where  Brazil ’s state-
controlled oil producer has a minority stake.  “We’re not bullish on Brazilian production -- they’ve got
massive declines,” Jamie Webster, the head of market
intelligence at PFC Energy Inc. in  Washington , which covers the
global  energy industry , said in a telephone interview. “It
wouldn’t take much for them to have reduced production.”  Waning output and shrinking profit margins are putting a
strain on Petrobras as it invests $236.5 billion through 2016 in
a bid to more than double output. The company has been hit with
delays of more than a year to get the equipment and rigs needed
to develop the Americas’ largest oil discoveries in three
decades amid regulations that require it to buy as much as 65
percent of its goods and services from local producers, Webster
said.  ‘Very Disciplined’  “We must recover the operating efficiency and we have to
be very disciplined regarding our scheduled maintenance and our
stoppages,” Petrobras Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas
Foster said in an Aug. 6 conference call. “We maintain our
targets for 2012.”  Petrobras fell 0.2 percent to 21.03 reais in Sao Paulo.
Before today it lost 7.1 percent for investors this year in U.S.
dollar terms, the worst performance by  oil companies  with a
market value of more than $50 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  has lost
6.6 percent, while  Colombia ’s  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  leads the ranking
with a total return of 44 percent, the data show.  Petrobras’s average oil output in Brazil fell to 2.018
million barrels a day in the first half, compared with 2.022
million barrels in all of 2011.  The Brazilian company’s production growth per share fell
0.7 percent in the second quarter, according to Bloomberg
Industries data.  Chevron Field  Petrobras’s domestic output will drop 2.3 percent this year
to 1.98 million barrels a day on average, Banco Itau BBA SA
estimated in an Aug. 6 report. Petrobras has been pumping less
than 2 million barrels a day since February, the month before
Chevron shut Frade because of an  oil spill . In April output fell
to a 20-month low, Petrobras said on its website.  Petrobras’s press office didn’t reply to an e-mail and
telephone call seeking comments.  “It’s basically Campos disappointing more than they ever
expected,” Paula Kovarsky, an analyst at Itau, said in an Aug.
8 telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “Depletion and efficiency
and the request for more maintenance are all hurting.”  Petrobras has failed to grow production fast enough from
the world’s biggest discoveries since 2000 to compensate for
declines at Campos. The company expects production to be little
changed for the next two years, it said in a business plan
published June 14. It cut its production goal by 11 percent to
5.7 million barrels a day in 2020.  ‘Steeper Declines’  “Deepwater fields generally have steeper decline rates
than shallow water and onshore fields,” T.J. Conway, a research
and advisory manager at New York-based Energy Intelligence
Group, said in a telephone interview from Washington. “It’s a
technical challenge, just maintaining production or mitigating
production declines in the deepwater, and it has important
implications for  cash flow .”  About 80 percent of Brazil’s oil comes from the Campos
Basin, where Petrobras began producing in 1977, according to the
national oil regulator’s website, known as ANP. Six fields in
Campos account for half of Brazil’s output, the  International
Energy Agency  said in a report July 12.  Output at the basin fell 7 percent in the 12 months through
June to 1.8 million barrels a day, according to ANP. It holds 9
of Brazil’s 10 biggest fields.  The world’s biggest producer in waters deeper than 1,000
feet (305 meters) is spending 5.6 billion reais to improve
operations at its 35 platforms in Campos and mitigate the
production declines, it said July 27. The company is also
drilling deeper into the so-called pre-salt layer of the basin
to connect new wells to existing infrastructure.  ‘New Plan’  “They took another assessment of field life and the new
stuff, and that’s what you’re seeing now,” Bob Fryklund, vice
president of energy consulting firm IHS CERA Upstream Research,
said in a telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “That’s why
they came out with the new plan.”  Itau estimates depletion at existing fields will cut
Petrobras’s output by an average of 205,000 barrels a day this
year, which is only partially offset by output from new
platforms and new wells in the Campos pre-salt.  “What’s clear is that they could be below target,” said
Dany Rappaport, who helps manage 250 million reais at Investport
in  Sao Paulo . “The results were very weak.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at   jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  