-- Phelps, Bolt, British Medals Help Ease Olympic Security Concerns
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-13T01:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/phelps-bolt-british-medals-help-ease-olympic-security-concerns.html
Empty seats and security concerns at
the  London  Olympics turned into capacity crowds, smiling faces
and Britain’s biggest medal haul in more than a century.  Sometimes it seemed, as the Beatles sang 45 years ago,
“All you need is love.”  U.S. swimmer  Michael Phelps  set the record for most Olympic
medals at 22, and  Jamaica ’s Usain Bolt became the first sprinter
to win three gold medals in two straight Summer Games. The U.S.
topped the standings in both gold and total medals.  Transportation generally moved people to the games and the
rest of London as scheduled. Safety, cast under a cloud when  G4S
Plc (GFS) , the world’s biggest security company, said it wouldn’t be
able to deliver all the 10,000 guards it had pledged for the
games, was praised for friendliness and efficiency, and no
security breaches were reported. British athletes finished third
in the medals standings with their most gold and total medals in
104 years.  “Everything seems to be smooth, the people are very
friendly, the volunteers are friendly,” David Wallechinsky, an
Olympic historian and NBC Radio commentator who has been to 15
Olympics, said in an interview two days before the games ended.
“It’s more of an Olympic atmosphere than in Beijing,
overwhelmingly so.”  Four years ago in the Chinese capital, Wallechinsky said,
he couldn’t get any response from the locals about what they
thought of the games. People had been told not to talk with
foreigners, he said. That certainly wasn’t the case in London.  Third Olympics  “These London Olympics have been off the chain,” said
DeeDee Trotter, a member of U.S. track’s gold medal 1,600-meter
relay team. “I’ve never seen a morning session packed out that
way. I’ve never been in a stadium where everyone knows what’s
going on. They love every athlete, it doesn’t matter what
country you come from.”  The 2012 Games, the third in the capital city’s history
after 1908 and 1948, ended last night with the closing ceremony
in the Olympic Stadium in east London. Athletes danced to
performances by  George Michael , The Who and the Spice Girls.  After rows of empty seats were visible during the first
weekend of the games, thousands of tickets for sold-out events
were made available daily to the public. The track and field
events in the second week of the games took place daily in front
of a capacity crowd of more than 80,000, while tens of thousands
of spectators lined the routes of the cycling road race,
triathlons and marathons, at times in heavy downpours.  Soccer Record  The U.S. won the women’s soccer gold medal against  Japan 
before 80,203 fans, the biggest crowd ever to watch the sport’s
female players at an Olympics.  “Overall, it’s been a success, it’s been an efficient and
well-run games,”  Simon Chadwick , a sports business professor at
the Coventry University Business School in  England , said in an
interview. “What happened with G4S really showed how meticulous
the planning had been. There was a Plan B, and they put it into
place.”  An extra 1,200 British military personnel were deployed,
taking the total amount of troops at the games to 18,200.  “You have shown the world the best of British
hospitality,” International Olympic Committee President  Jacques Rogge  said last night at the closing ceremony, where the Olympic
flame was extinguished. “These were happy and glorious games.”  Record Breakers  Bolt, a 25-year-old Jamaican and a self-described “living
legend” after he successfully defended his 100-meter, 200-meter
and 400-meter relay titles, was among the biggest stars. Phelps
won six medals, including four golds, taking his total to 22 and
surpassing former Soviet gymnast Larissa Latynina as the most
decorated Olympian of all time. British sailor Ben Ainslie
captured the medal record in his sport with a fourth gold, while
Canadian rider Ian Millar became the only athlete to compete in
10 games.  The U.S. men’s basketball team beat  Spain  for the gold
medal, just as it did in Beijing.  LeBron James , who scored 19
points in the final yesterday, joined Hall of Fame player
 Michael Jordan  in winning a National Basketball Association
championship, Most Valuable Player awards for both the NBA
season and the league finals, and an Olympic gold medal in one
year.  The U.S. finished with 46 gold medals and 104 total,
reclaiming the championship title it lost to  China  in 2008.
China finished second in both counts this time, at 38 gold
medals among 87 in all. Britain was third in golds with 29 and
had 65 overall, its best showing since 1908.  Crowd Favorite  Bolt’s relationship with the crowds who flocked to watch
him peaked when he started a wave among the fans after landing
his third gold in the 400-meter relay two days ago. He pleaded
to keep the baton which he and his three teammates used to break
the world record, and finally got it.  “It’s just something to remind me of London,” Bolt said
of the metal tube he’s taking back to the Caribbean.  The 70,000 volunteers who helped at the games provided a
backdrop of purple shirts and khaki slacks.  “We come from all different backgrounds,” said Susan
Goggin, a 71-year-old retired secretary from the London suburbs
and a volunteer at the main Olympic Stadium. “Life is different
for youngsters today from when I was young. Hopefully I’ve
passed things on to them about just being caring, not taking
everything for granted, and that a smile goes a long way.”  Shopping Mall  Trotter, a bronze medalist in the 400 meters, said it was
“awesome” to have the athletes’ village built adjacent to the
Westfield Stratford shopping mall. During the games, athletes,
officials, media and spectators shopped, strolled and relaxed
with a drink in bars and coffee shops until the early hours of
the morning.  “You can’t walk through without them hugging you, or
giving you high fives, congratulating you on just being you,”
Trotter said. “You don’t have to have a medal. If they knew you
are an athlete, they were really supportive. Was it chaos? Yes.
Was it good chaos? Absolutely.”  London’s opening ceremony, which featured sheep, horses,
dancing National Health Service nurses, a tribute to British
engineering and the British monarch,  Queen Elizabeth II , turning
into a Bond Girl as she acted in a skit with 007 actor  Daniel Craig , cost 27 million pounds. Four years ago, 14,000 performers
welcomed the world to Beijing beneath 30,000 fireworks at the
Bird’s Nest stadium to start a two-week spectacle that
officially cost $67 billion. The London Games had a budget of
9.3 billion pounds ($14.6 billion).  Future Funding  The British team’s achievements secured future funding.  U.K. Sport received about 100 million pounds a year from
the government and the National Lottery for high-performance
sport in Britain in the run-up to London.  The U.K. government yesterday announced it would boost
spending to around 125 million pounds a year over the next four
years.  The extra money will make a big difference, according to
Chris Hoy, a track cyclist who last week became the first Briton
to win six gold medals.  “I am old enough to remember a time when things were run
on a shoestring budget before National Lottery and  government
investment  transformed British Olympic sport,” said Hoy, 36.
“Having these guarantees for the future will be a huge boost.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at London’s Olympic Park at   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja at London’s Olympic Park at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  