-- Philippines Agency Plans to Sell Mining Assets: Southeast Asia
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-08-14T07:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/philippines-agency-plans-to-sell-mining-assets-southeast-asia.html
The  Philippines  will sell stakes in
mining holdings as President  Benigno Aquino  seeks to nudge
forward efforts to boost investment after two years in office.  The government will auction stakes in four nickel, copper
and gold mines, as well as shares in  Semirara Mining Corp. (SCC) , said
Karen Singson, executive director of the Privatization and
Management Office, one of several state agencies managing asset
sales. She declined to give the potential value of the disposals.  “We’re lining up the projects we plan to privatize in the
near- and medium-term,” Singson, 33, said in an interview in
her office in  Manila  yesterday. “There are more foreign
investors talking to us because of improvements in governance
and transparency.”  Aquino has struggled to accelerate asset sales and bidding
of infrastructure projects, with the government awarding just
one project under its private-partnership program since he took
office in 2010. The momentum may be aided by rising investor
confidence after credit rating upgrades from Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings, as the nation takes steps to reduce
corruption and contain the  budget deficit .  Ayala Land Inc. was the highest bidder in an auction of 74
hectares of state-owned Food Terminal Inc.’s property in Manila,
Singson said today. The company bid 24.33 billion pesos ($580
million) compared to a reserve price of 10.25 billion pesos set
by the government, beating offers from rivals including
Robinsons Land Corp. and Empire East Land Holdings Inc.  The nation aims to raise about 2 billion pesos each in 2012
and 2013 from privatization. The government is seeking more than
$16 billion of investments in roads, schools and airports, with
the goal of boosting  growth  to as much as 8.5 percent by 2016.  Investor Favorite  “Management of the economy and fiscal consolidation have
paid off with a lot of inflows,” said  Trinh Nguyen , a Hong
Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. “The Philippines has
become a favorite among investors. The fact that the government
is taking steps to improve investment bodes well for growth.”  The peso has risen more than 4 percent this year, becoming
 Asia ’s best performer among the 11 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  surged
to a record in July.  The $225 billion economy expanded 6.4 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest in  Southeast Asia  and the most since 2010.
S&P in July raised the country’s credit rating to one level
below investment grade, its highest since 2003.  The Privatization and Management Office plans to sell three
or four entities to net 500 million pesos in 2013, excluding the
mining shares, said Singson, who previously managed $2 billion
of emerging-market stocks at Boston Company Asset Management.  Hiring Advisors  The government plans to hire financial advisors to assess
the value of the mining stakes, said Singson, declining to
provide any further details on the timing of the sales or the
size of stakes being sold.  The only private-partnership project awarded in Aquino’s
term was a contract to build a four-kilometer (2.5-mile), four-
lane paved toll road to provinces south of the capital. It was
won last December by a consortium led by Ayala Corp. that bid
902 million pesos.  The country’s last big asset sale was the 2007 auction of a
25-year contract to operate and expand the nation’s power
transmission system, which was awarded to a group that included
State Grid Corp. of  China  after it offered $3.95 billion.  The Privatization and Management Office owns 769,450 shares
in mining company Semirara, according to Singson. That is about
0.2 percent of the company and amounts to 171 million pesos,
based on today’s prices as calculated by Bloomberg News.  Neighbors including  Vietnam  and  Indonesia  have also stepped
up plans to sell state assets and lure more foreign investors.  Investor Confidence  Vietnam has made the restructuring of state-owned companies
one of three areas of focus through 2015 as it tries to revive a
more than decade-old share-sale program known as equitization.
In Indonesia, President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s efforts to
fight corruption and spend more on infrastructure have helped
restore investor confidence.  The Philippines climbed to 129th place on the Transparency
International Corruption Perceptions Index in 2011 from 141st in
2008, below  Thailand  at 80 and Indonesia at 100, according to
the Berlin-based watchdog’s website.  The Philippine Senate in May ousted Chief Justice Renato Corona for concealing his wealth. Aquino had sought to remove
the judge as a crucial step in ridding the nation of corruption.  The nation is seeking to harmonize national and local
mining policies, even as Xstrata Plc, which is pursuing a $5.9
billion gold and copper project in South Cotabato, is appealing
the government’s denial of an environmental permit.  Aquino last month unveiled a new order expanding a mining
ban and extending a moratorium on project approvals until
Congress legislates a higher government share in resource
contracts. The privatization office has implemented rules to
prevent irregularities including collusion among bidders,
Singson said yesterday.  “We’re asking them for a lot of paperwork,” said Singson,
a graduate of  Harvard Business School . “We want to check the
financial strength of the bidder. We don’t want bids from black-
listed companies. Everyone is on equal ground; we’re making it a
competitive process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ; 