-- Ryan Faces Hecklers at Iowa Fair on First Campaign Trip
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-08-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/ryan-faces-hecklers-at-iowa-fair-on-first-campaign-trip.html
If there were any questions about
whether  Paul Ryan  would spark strong reactions as Republican
 Mitt Romney ’s newly picked running mate, they were answered amid
the Jumbo Corn Dog stands and funnel cake carts of the Iowa
State Fair.  As the  Wisconsin  congressman yesterday gamely plowed
through a stump speech, hecklers screamed, supporters chanted
and the police pulled protesters from the stage.  “Iowans and Wisconsinites, we like to be respectful of one
another,” Ryan said after two women scrambled over hay bales to
jump onto the small podium. “These ladies must not be from Iowa
or Wisconsin.”  Ryan’s addition to the presidential campaign has reshaped
the contest, injecting a shot of energy into Romney’s bid and
transforming the race into a referendum on the role of
government. President  Barack Obama  was also in Iowa yesterday,
starting a three-day bus tour to reignite enthusiasm in the
state he won four years ago.  While his budget-cutting proposals have made Ryan a hero to
anti-tax advocates, Democrats are using those plans to label him
an extremist. As head of the House Budget Committee, Ryan has
proposed measures to overhaul Medicare and reduce federal
spending for almost all government programs, aside from the
military.  Walking through the fairgrounds in Des Moines in his first
solo appearance since Romney named him as his vice presidential
selection on Aug. 11, Ryan refused to answer questions about his
policy positions.  Play Later  “We’ll play stump the running mate later,” he said,
flashing a smile to the throng of trailing reporters and
photographers.  Shortly after Ryan took the stage at the fair’s soap box, a
traditional stop for presidential candidates, two women climbed
onto it as they yelled attacks at him.  “Are you going to cut Medicare?” shouted another woman in
the crowd.  The largely supportive audience erupted into chants of
“USA,” drowning out Ryan. The protesters, too, kept screaming,
turning his 12-minute speech into a raucous and ideologically
tinged face-off.  Iowa  Citizens for Community Improvement Action Fund said in
a statement that it organized the protest and that close to two
dozen of its members participated.  Ryan stayed calm and used his speech to assail Obama.  Jobs Question  “As you see the president come through on his bus tour,
you might ask the same question that I’m going to ask: Where are
the jobs, Mr. President,” Ryan said.  Still, Ryan’s appearance illustrated how quickly he has
become a lightning rod in the campaign, with both sides fighting
to define the new vice presidential candidate for voters.  The Iowa Action Fund group identified the woman who shouted
the Medicare question as Cherie Mortice, a retired public school
teacher. In the group’s news release, Mortice says Romney and
Ryan “are on a personal crusade to balance the budget on the
backs of everyday people and hardworking families so their
buddies on Wall Street can rake in even more corporate profits
that they don’t need.”  Obama used Ryan’s presence in the state to argue that
Republicans are obstructionists, saying the lawmaker is “one of
the leaders of Congress standing in the way” of passing a farm
bill that would provide relief from the drought.  Farm Bill  “So, if you happen to see Congressman Ryan, tell him how
important this farm bill is to Iowa and our rural communities,”
Obama said at a rally in Council Bluffs. “We’ve got to put
politics aside when it comes to doing the right thing for rural
America and for Iowa.”  Romney campaign aides pointed to Ryan’s Midwestern
background as a sign of his support for agriculture. They
highlighted his vote for a bill to provide short-term  disaster
relief  to farmers and ranchers that the Republican-controlled
House passed on Aug. 2. The Democratic-controlled Senate didn’t
take up the measure before Congress left for a monthlong break.  “The truth is no one will work harder to defend farmers
and ranchers than the Romney-Ryan ticket,” said spokesman  Ryan
Williams  in a statement.  Wearing jeans and scuffed cowboy boots, Ryan focused on
trying to bond with voters he met as he walked through the
fairgrounds in the middle of the media horde.  “We do cow milking contests in Wisconsin,” he told a
small group of voters. “I usually lose to a 17-year-old girl
who grew up on a dairy farm.”  Poll Results  Ryan remains unknown to many voters, with one out of three
voters saying they had no opinion of him in a poll conducted
Aug. 11-12 by ABC News and the Washington Post.  “We don’t really know him,” said Joy Evans, a farmer from
Bloomfield, Iowa, visiting the fair with her husband. “Did he
balance the budget in Wisconsin?”  Last night, Ryan headlined his first fundraisers for the
campaign. The events, both in private homes, were expected to
raise around $1 million, according to campaign aides.  Ryan will hold rallies today in Lakewood,  Colorado , a
suburb of Denver, and  Las Vegas . He is also expected to hold a
private fundraising event at the Venetian in Las Vegas. The
hotel is owned by  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  head  Sheldon Adelson ,
who has contributed $10 million to a group backing Romney.  Obama Chats  Obama visited the Iowa fairgrounds last night, working
lines of hundreds of well-wishers as his campaign aides recorded
video for possible future ads. He politely declined a cinnamon
roll at one food stand, saying he was holding out for pork on a
stick.  As the sun was sinking, the president met 2012 Iowa State
Fair Queen Abrah Meyer, 17, who was decked out in a tiara and
purple dress and matching sash. “Four more years!” chanted a
crowd penned inside the beer tent just yards away.  Obama’s three-day schedule in Iowa represents a significant
investment of time for just six electoral votes, a fraction of
 Ohio ’s 18 or  Florida ’s 29, out of the 270 needed to win the
White House.  “A state he won by nine points four years ago is requiring
a three-day bus tour,” said David Kochel, a Romney Iowa
strategist. “He’s trying to address what is a lot of buyer’s
remorse out here.”  At a snow-cone stand in Denison, Iowa, Obama chatted with
Terry and Brian Evers, a father and son who own a family farm.
He asked about their corn and soy crop yields, which Brian, 47,
said were down about 50 percent because of the drought.  The Evers are the sort of voters Obama is counting on in
Iowa. Both backed him in 2008 and said they will again. Both
said they had been registered Republicans and switched this year
-- Terry Evers to Democrat and his son to independent -- because
of what they saw as the unwillingness of congressional
Republicans to compromise. That included the stalled farm bill.  “I think this is a good trip for him,” Brian Evers said
of Obama’s bus tour. “He needs to go around Iowa. He needs to
rally the troops, basically. It sounds very tight for him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Des Moines , Iowa, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Des Moines, Iowa, at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  