-- Secret IKEA Fortune Put in the Spotlight With Rights Sale
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a F r a n c o
-- 2012-08-15T14:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/secret-ikea-fortune-put-in-the-spotlight-with-rights-sale.html
(Corrects quotes in fourth and ninth paragraphs.)  The complex ownership structure
behind IKEA, the world’s largest furniture retailer created by
billionaire  Ingvar Kamprad , became more transparent last week
after IKEA’s franchisor published its financial performance
publicly for the first time.  The new details allow for a more complete valuation of the
secretive IKEA empire, increasing the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index  estimate of Kamprad’s fortune by more than $1.4 billion,
to almost $39 billion.  The financial details were contained in the 2011 annual
report issued by Inter IKEA Group, IKEA’s franchisor. It
disclosed a January transaction to acquire IKEA’s closely held
intellectual property, including the IKEA trademarks, by Inter
IKEA Systems BV, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Inter IKEA, for 9
billion euros ($11 billion). It also published financial
information for Inter IKEA including revenue and earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization.  “Our ownership structure of the IP rights has been
complicated and we saw an advantage in simplifying all of that
and consolidating control under the franchisor Inter IKEA
Systems,” said Anders Bylund, a spokesman for Inter IKEA. “Our
goal with the annual report was to provide greater transparency
for our employees and our business partners.”  Swedish-born Kamprad, 86, was  Europe ’s richest man until
June of this year, when surging shares of  Inditex (ITX) , the world’s
largest clothing retailer, pushed  Amancio Ortega , 76, into the
top spot. The Spaniard’s fortune has risen $9.9 billion in 2012,
giving him a net worth of $45.1 billion.  Ultimate Control  Kamprad has said that the IKEA fortune is no longer his
since he separated the company he founded in 1943 into two parts
more than 30 years ago. Bloomberg attributes the full value of
IKEA to him on the basis of his ultimate control over the
structure. The split, Kamprad said at the time, was designed to
protect the long-term survival of the business.  In the 1980s, Kamprad placed all of the shares of the INGKA
Group, which owns most of IKEA’s retail stores, into the Leiden,
Holland-based Stichting INGKA Foundation. At year-end 2011,
INGKA owned 290 of IKEA’s 325 retail stores.  At the time, Kamprad also separated out IKEA’s intellectual
property rights, which, until the January transaction, were held
by Interogo Foundation, a Vaduz, Liechtenstein-based holding
company that owns all of Inter IKEA Group. Kamprad controls
Interogo, which financed the January rights transfer with a 3.4
billion euros capital injection and a 5.6 billion euros loan.  The $11 billion valuation “is a fair one and recognizes
the value of the IKEA trademarks, as well as what we expect of
the business looking forward 10 or 15 years,” said Hans Gydell,
CEO of Inter IKEA.  The disclosure marks the second time in the past three
years the companies opened their books. In 2011, the IKEA retail
operation reported net income of almost 3 billion euros on
revenue of 25 billion euros, while the franchisor delivered
profit of 87 million euros on revenue of 2.4 billion euros.  Lingering Scrutiny  All IKEA franchisees pay a fee of 3 percent of gross sales
to Inter IKEA, amounting to 789 million euros in 2011. Inter
IKEA then paid Interogo 550 million euros for the rights to use
the IKEA trademarks in its franchise concept. The cost was about
18 times that 2011 license fee, which reflects the current and
future value of the brand, Gydell said.  The trademark valuation was conducted by two outside
financial groups and vetted by local tax authorities, including
regulators in the Netherlands.  IKEA stores worldwide generated 26 billion euros in sales
in 2011, up from 22.5 billion euros in 2008 and almost 24
billion euros in 2010, according to the company website. Gydell
said that there are 14,000 applications to join the franchise
system.  As the sole owner of the rights going forward, Inter IKEA
will no longer pay Interogo and will instead make payments on
the funds it borrowed to acquire them.  The IKEA ownership structure has been the subject of press
scrutiny during the past decade, including an hour-long
documentary by Assignment Investigate, a news program that aired
on  Sweden ’s SVT television network last year, as well as a 2006
analysis in The Economist.  Kamprad moved out of his homeland in the 1970s in an effort
to keep the company closely held, something he said he couldn’t
do with the tax regime in Sweden at the time, according to Per
Heggenes, a spokesman for the IKEA foundation.  Family Operations  Because the value reported by IKEA is forward-looking and
already captured in part within the valuation of the INGKA Group
stores, the increase in Kamprad’s net worth estimate is lower
than the book value of the IKEA brand that was reported by Inter
IKEA last week.  Both operations were valued on the basis of fiscal year
2011 operating results. A 15 percent liquidity discount was
applied to account for IKEA’s complex ownership structure.  INGKA Group is valued using the average enterprise value-
to-sales and price-to-earnings multiples of nine publicly traded
retailers that reflect IKEA’s size and scope, as well as its
business mix, including  Pier 1 Imports, Inc. (PIR) ,  Wal-Mart Stores ,
Inc., and Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.  Inter IKEA is valued using the average price-to-earnings
and enterprise value-to-Ebitda multiples of four publicly traded
franchise companies,  DineEquity, Inc. (DIN) ,  Wyndham Worldwide Corp. (WYN) ,
 Tim Hortons , Inc. and  Harvey Norman Holdings, Ltd. (HVN)   The Kamprad fortune also includes Luxembourg-based  Ikano
Group , the family’s investment vehicle, which has operations in
 consumer credit , asset management, real-estate management and
insurance.  Kamprad also controls stakes in publicly traded Finnish
beverage company,  Olvi Oyj (OLVAS) , and Swedish commercial real estate
company,  Peab AB. (PEABB)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert LaFranco in London at 
 rlafranco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  