-- SingTel First-Quarter Misses Estimates on Currency Impact
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-08-14T09:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/singtel-first-quarter-profit-up-3-2-on-emerging-markets.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ,
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest phone company, posted first-quarter
profit that missed analyst estimates as currency moves and lower
sales at its Australian unit cut earnings.  Net income  rose 3.2 percent to S$945.3 million ($759
million) in the three months ended June 30 from a year earlier,
the company, also known as SingTel, said in a statement today.
That compares with the S$974.3 million average of three  analyst 
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Increased sales in Singapore, where the former  government
agency  has about 46 percent of the mobile-phone market, was
offset by falling sales at its Australian Optus unit, where pay-
as-you-go customer numbers fell and call rates were cut, SingTel
said. Earnings growth from its Indonesian and Thai associates
was undermined by declines in the countries’ currencies against
the Singapore dollar, the company said.  “They still need to look for new ways to drive their
revenues,”  Sachin Gupta , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
Singapore, said by telephone before the results. Nomura has a
 neutral   rating  on shares of the Singapore-based company.  SingTel shares fell 0.9 percent to S$3.36 at the close of
trade in Singapore, compared with a 0.8 percent gain in the
Straits Times Index. The stock, with a dividend yield of 4.7
percent, has gained 8.7 percent this year.  Dividend Yield  “The market has been buying this stock for the yield,
maybe expecting some sort of better-than-expected dividend,”
Gregory Yap, an analyst at Kim Eng Securities Pte., said by
telephone from Singapore. “I don’t think that’s going to
happen.”  Excluding one-time items, profit after tax fell 3 percent
to S$850 million, the lowest figure on that measure since the
quarter ended December 2008, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Revenue for the full year through March 2013 will increase
at “low single digit” rates, while earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization will be “stable,” the
company said.  The earnings contribution from regional associates rose 2.4
percent to S$483 million in the quarter, the company said.  SingTel holds minority stakes in phone operators in more
than 10 countries in Asia and  Africa , with a total customer base
of about 462 million as of June 30, making its earnings
vulnerable to currency fluctuations.  Strong Dollar  “The  Singapore dollar  was very strong against most of the
regional currencies and against the Australian dollar,” Chua Sock Koong, chief executive officer, told reporters in Singapore
after the results. “As a result the Singapore dollar earnings
were impacted adversely.”  Among 10 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg, the
Indonesian rupiah and the Indian rupee are among the worst
performers against the Singapore dollar this year. The  Thai baht 
has also depreciated against the city-state’s currency.  Sales from Singapore rose 8 percent to S$1.67 billion,
while those from Optus fell 3 percent in Australian dollars to
A$2.24 billion ($2.4 billion). Total  revenue  dropped 1.6 percent
to S$4.53 billion.  “There’s been significant erosion of profitability in the
industry” in  Australia  in recent years, Paul O’Sullivan,
Optus’s chief executive officer, told a media conference.  Optus’s competitors -- Telstra Corp. and the Vodafone
Hutchison Australia Pty. venture of Vodafone Plc. and Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. -- had engaged in “a significant amount of profit
destruction”, he said.  Telstra Profits  While Telstra said Aug. 9 it had improved mobile profit
margins over the six months through June, earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization for the group fell
1.6 percent during the period even as sales rose 0.8 percent.  Still, Optus’s mobile customer growth during the period was
the slowest since at least 2006, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. 103,000 new customers were added during the period,
compared to about 640,000 taken up by Telstra and a loss of
178,000 at Vodafone.  SingTel is expanding its revenue streams amid slowing
growth from its main markets in  Singapore  and Australia, and has
announced about $899 million of acquisitions in the 12 months
through June, including mobile advertiser Amobee Inc. for $321
million.  It may look to raise stakes in its regional associates or
make other emerging-markets acquisitions, the company said at
annual results May 10. While that will remain a focus, there
aren’t many “attractive assets” around, Chua said  “We continue to keep an eye to see what’s there,” she
said. “There are probably not a whole lot of opportunities
available.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  