-- N.Y. Regulator Scrutiny Extends From Banks to Carnivals
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-08-13T03:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/standard-chartered-nemesis-has-history-as-strict-enforcer.html
Little more than a year before he
was criticized for breaking ranks with regulators for being the
first to accuse  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  of laundering Iranian
money,  Benjamin Lawsky ,  New York ’s top banking official, was
insisting on his own brand of justice at a charity carnival game.  In May 2011, just after he learned New York’s Democratic
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  would nominate him to head the state’s
fledgling Department of Financial Services, Lawsky brought his
young child to the St. Mark’s fair in  New Canaan , Connecticut,
one of the New York area’s wealthiest suburbs. The event
attracts local luminaries such as musician  Paul Simon  and hedge-
fund managers and their families from nearby Greenwich.  Stephen Roach , then  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s non-executive chairman for Asian
operations, served as a volunteer cashier at the food concession.  Lawsky’s child approached a shooting gallery, which
rewarded the best marksman with a selection of colorful stuffed
toys. It soon became clear to Lawsky that the weapon his child
had chosen was a dud, and that a different gun seemed to win
every time, no matter who was at the trigger.  Rather than take the easy path of placing his child at the
sure-fire rifle, Lawsky pointed out the imbalance to the game’s
operator, who fixed it.  After another go, Lawsky and his child left the booth in
the company of a plush animal.  Larger Challenge  These days, Lawsky has a much larger challenge to right
what he sees as a wrong, given the criticism leveled at him by
 Mervyn King , head of the  Bank of England , and  Peter Sands , chief
executive of London-based Standard Chartered, which Lawsky
accused of illegally laundering $250 billion in Iranian money.  On Aug. 6, Lawsky, whose office declined to comment or
cooperate for this article, stunned both bank executives and
federal regulators who have been investigating Standard
Chartered’s wire transfer activities for several years. In a
formal order, he  scheduled an Aug. 15 hearing  at which the bank
must persuade him not to revoke its license to operate in New
York state. One analyst estimated loss of the license could
result in a 40 percent drop in earnings.  The order angered U.K. officials, who viewed Lawsky’s
broadside as an attack on London’s status as a financial center.
At home, U.S. regulators, including the Treasury Department, the
 Federal Reserve  and the Manhattan  District Attorney , complained
privately in published reports that Lawsky’s order was a
publicity stunt that disrupted their own probes of the matter.  Singular Case  “I can’t think of another case where there has been such
uniformity among federal regulators undercutting an enforcement
case,” said  Neil Barofsky , a former federal prosecutor who
oversaw the U.S. Troubled Asset Relief Program and wrote
“Bailout,” a book that criticizes what he calls the U.S.
government’s lax regulation of  Wall Street  banks.  Barofsky said he is dumbfounded by the slowness of federal
regulators in dealing with cases such as that of Standard
Chartered. Lawsky accused the bank of a decade of deception in
handling lucrative wire transfers for Iranian clients, sending
them through its New York unit in so-called U-Turn transactions
with client names omitted to hide their provenance.  “Why on earth do the Federal Reserve and Treasury want to
be on that side of the issue?” Barofsky said, citing the
alleged violations of U.S. economic sanctions against Iran.
“Once again, Treasury and the Fed are protecting a giant
bank.”  New Role  Lawsky’s new role as the center of attention in an
international-enforcement case has thrust him into an unusual
position. In the past decade, the 42-year-old former prosecutor
established himself as a no-nonsense law enforcer happy to allow
superiors, such as Cuomo, bask in the attention generated by his
work.  A Pittsburgh native, Lawsky remains an unabashed fan of the
Steel City’s professional sports teams even after two decades of
working between Washington and New York. Born on a U.S. naval
base and an alumnus of Columbia College and  Columbia Law School ,
Lawsky began his career as a clerk for two judges before moving
to the U.S. Justice Department.  After Chuck Schumer was elected a Democratic U.S. senator
from New York in 1998, Lawsky joined him as chief counsel on the
Senate Judiciary Committee. In 2001, he moved to the U.S.
attorney’s office in Manhattan, where he specialized in cases
involving terrorism, organized crime and securities fraud.  Cuomo’s Staff  In 2007, Lawsky began working for Cuomo, who had just been
elected New York attorney general. After the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008, Cuomo began an
investigation into pay packages on Wall Street. With Lawsky as
his lead investigator, Cuomo delved into $3.6 billion in bonuses
that New York-based Merrill Lynch & Co. had awarded employees at
the end of 2008, even as the federal government had secured the
firm’s purchase by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  with $45 billion in
taxpayer funds.  Cuomo’s investigation into the bonus payments, and the lack
of disclosure by Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America
to shareholders prior to closing the deal, wound up earning the
Securities and Exchange Commission a dressing down by a federal
judge for not being very demanding in resolving the matter.  Cuomo and Lawsky chose to act after learning Bank of
America had reached a $33 million deal with the SEC over the
disclosure of the billions of dollars in bonuses. The bank
didn’t have to admit or deny any wrongdoing as part of the
accord.  The SEC agreement, struck without any input from the New
York attorney general, appeared to undercut Cuomo’s efforts to
deal with the same matter, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the case.  Court Rejection  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan rejected the
SEC settlement as inadequate and insisted the agency prove its
case in court. After Cuomo’s office brought fraud charges
against former Bank of America CEO Kenneth D. Lewis and a deputy,
Rakoff accepted an SEC agreement calling for a $150 million
penalty on the bank for its conduct.  A former colleague from Cuomo’s office said Lawsky will
probably recall the embarrassment suffered by the SEC for having
its proposed settlement with Bank of America rejected. As he
weighs the question of whether to reach a quick deal with
 Standard Chartered , that experience will be part of his mindset,
said the ex-colleague, who asked not to be identified because
his dealings with Lawsky have been private.  As a result, it’s more probable Lawsky will try to work
with other regulators on a comprehensive settlement with
Standard Chartered, the former colleague said.  Monitor Proposal  Taking some tension out of the air before this week’s
hearing, Lawsky has worked out an arrangement with the bank to
pick a monitor to assure compliance with state and federal law,
according to a person familiar with the matter, an indication
that he’s not intent on closing the bank’s New York unit down,
at least in the short term. Another person familiar with the
case said that Lawsky may seek as much as $700 million to settle
the investigation.  Standard Chartered declined to comment for this article.
Julie Gibson, a spokeswoman for the bank, didn’t respond to a
call seeking comment on the monitor agreement.  Another former colleague who worked with Lawsky in the
Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s office disagreed with allegations that
Lawsky fired off his Aug. 6 salvo as an effort at self-promotion
for his new department, or his political career.  “He must have had, at least in his own mind, a reason to
bring this case” said William Burck, a lawyer now with the
Washington office Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP. “He’s
never been known as a self-promoter or bomb-thrower.”  Lawsky’s reputation at the U.S. attorney’s office was “as
a smart lawyer who was very careful,” Burck said.  Possible Embarrassment  If the current case results in a small fine, rather than
one comparable to the hundreds of millions of dollars set aside
by other banks accused of similar malfeasance, Lawsky’s go-it-
alone gambit may prove an embarrassment, in part due to his
dramatic accusations, Burck said, including calling Standard
Chartered a “rogue bank.”  “I guess it could backfire in the sense that maybe they’ll
prove that what he’s alleged is unjustified,” the lawyer said.  While Lawsky’s Aug. 6 order appeared to be a surprise to
the bank, as gauged by the strident reaction of Standard
Chartered’s Sands, who rejected the allegations, the
superintendent did say in his confirmation hearing that  money
laundering  was one of his priorities.  Lawsky also shared his philosophy of enforcement in a
speech to the New York City Bar Association on June 28. In that
talk, he said that when violations go on year after year, bank
regulators need to be willing to take action more publicly.  Quiet settlements, Lawsky told the audience, don’t work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 