-- India Inflation Cools to 32-Month Low as Growth Falters: Economy
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-08-14T09:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/subbarao-says-india-lacks-scope-for-stimulus-to-counter-a-crisis.html
India ’s inflation rate unexpectedly 
reached a 32-month low in July, signaling that the nation’s 
weakest economic growth in almost a decade is starting to 
contain prices.  The  wholesale-price index  rose 6.87 percent from a year
earlier, less than all estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of
29 economists with a median prediction of 7.2 percent, a
Commerce Ministry statement showed today. Central bank Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said yesterday India had been “somewhat of an
outlier” because slower growth had yet to damp inflation.  Stocks and bonds rallied on speculation the Reserve Bank of
India will have scope to consider lowering  interest rates  in the
second half of the year. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
government has struggled to revive expansion in  Asia ’s third-
largest economy this year as a widening fiscal deficit and
policy reversals on market opening undermined confidence.  “Given the substantial slowdown in growth, markets don’t
rule out the possibility of rate cuts after September,” said
Vivek Rajpal, a Mumbai-based fixed-income strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. “A sustained drop in inflation will prompt the
RBI to change its focus.”  The BSE India Sensitive Index of stocks climbed 0.5 percent
as of 3:04 p.m. in Mumbai, after falling earlier. The yield on
the 8.15 percent government bond due June 2022 slid to 8.18
percent from 8.24 percent earlier.  Subbarao’s reluctance to join a wave of cuts in borrowing
costs from  China  to  Brazil  adds to pressure for Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram to shore up India’s economic growth.
Chidambaram, who at 66 became finance chief for the third time
last month, plans to unveil steps for fiscal consolidation and
clarify tax laws as he seeks to revive investment that’s been
deterred by political gridlock.  ‘Positive’ Data  The inflation data “is a positive but we need to see if
it’s trending downwards or just a one-off before we can expect
the  Reserve Bank  to resume rate cuts,” said Mumbai-based Shishir Bajpai, senior vice president at IIFL Wealth Management Ltd.  India’s growth slowed to 5.3 percent in the three months
through March from a year earlier, the least since 2003, as
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis curbed global demand and Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh’s inability to spur investment in
industries such as retailing and insurance hurt confidence.  Exports slid 14.8 percent in July from a year earlier,
Director General of Foreign Trade Anup Pujari said today, citing
provisional data. Merchandise shipments declined to $22.4
billion last month while imports slid 7.61 percent to $37.9
billion, leaving a trade deficit of $15.5 billion, he said.  Subbarao left the benchmark  repurchase rate  at 8 percent
last month for a second meeting, as the central bank sought to
counter inflation that it said remained “well above” its
comfort zone.  Growth Sacrifice  “Some sacrifice in growth is inevitable and an unavoidable
cost in bringing inflation down,” Subbarao said in a speech in
the southern Indian state of Kerala yesterday, citing monetary
policy as the most immediate tool to contain costs.  Core
inflation  at 5 percent is “still quite high,” he said.  India’s consumer-price inflation is 10 percent, the fastest
among the BRIC nations of Brazil,  Russia , India and China.  “Inflation is high,  oil prices  though they have come off
$100 a barrel are at elevated levels, the external sector is
under stress,” Subbarao said in a speech in the southern Indian
state of Kerala. “There is just no space for fiscal or monetary
response.”  Outlier Country  “In other emerging economies, inflation has also come
down,” Subbarao said. “In India, even as the growth has come
down, our inflation has not come down. India is somewhat of an
outlier in the world.”  The rupee has tumbled about 18 percent against the dollar
in the past 12 months, making imports more expensive. It
weakened 0.7 percent to 55.7087 per dollar at 3:05 p.m. in
Mumbai.  Today’s wholesale-price index release is “quite perplexing”
as “all the other indicators that we are looking at don’t
suggest that there should have been such a fall,” said Samiran Chakraborty, head of regional research at Standard Chartered Plc
in Mumbai. “My sense is this data won’t be a big determinant of
the RBI action.”  India’s growth outlook faces additional threats from a weak
monsoon and infrastructure deficiencies highlighted by the
country’s worst power blackouts last month.  “If inflation slows further and growth dips to 5-to-5.5
percent levels, then the  Reserve Bank of India  can think about
easing,” said Radhika Rao, an economist in  Singapore  at
Forecast Pte.  In contrast, growth elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region
show signs of holding up amid the faltering global recovery.  Australia, New Zealand  A report today showed  New Zealand  retail sales advanced in
the second quarter by almost twice the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. In Australia, a private survey
of about 400 companies by National Australia Bank Ltd. showed
business confidence in July rebounded from a 10-month low as
interest-rate reductions helped ease pessimism.  The U.S. may report retail sales rose 0.3 percent in July,
ending three months of declines, a survey of economists showed.
A separate Labor Department report may show U.S. wholesale
prices gained 0.2 percent in July from the previous month.  Asian stocks rose for the first time in three days ahead of
the U.S. data today. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  added 0.4
percent as of 4:50 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Europe Risk  The risks to Asia’s economies from Europe persist.
 Germany ’s gross domestic product rose 0.3 percent from the first
quarter, when it gained 0.5 percent, the Federal Statistics
Office said in Wiesbaden today. French GDP was unchanged in the
quarter.  A few  Bank of Japan  board members said the central bank
should not dismiss any policy options in combating risks to the
economy from the European crisis, a record of last month’s
meeting showed today.  Subbarao said that India’s long-term growth story remains
credible even as the weakening global and European outlook pose
immediate risks to exports, fund flows and sentiment.  India’s inflation has probably been held up by rising wages,
infrastructure bottlenecks, supply-demand imbalances and the
rupee’s drop, he said.  The central bank also previously signaled that  government
spending  is adding to inflationary pressure. The nation projects
record borrowing of 5.69 trillion rupees ($102 billion) to plug
a targeted budget shortfall of 5.1 percent of GDP in the year
that began April 1.  Chidambaram faces the challenge of containing the  budget
deficit  as a subsidy program for goods ranging from diesel to
fertilizers boosts spending while slower growth crimps tax
revenue. A panel has been established to help the government in
“formulating the path of fiscal consolidation” and is expected
to complete its work in a few weeks, the finance minister said
earlier this month.  “Part of the inflation is from demand pressures,”
Subbarao said yesterday. “So it’s not entirely supply shocks.
Even if it is entirely supply shocks, monetary policy has to be
the first line of defense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal at   aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  