-- Iran Promises to Oppose Syria’s Islamic Group Suspension
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-08-14T10:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/syria-s-suspension-recommended-from-islamic-group-says-oic-head.html
Iran set the scene for a diplomatic
showdown with fellow Islamic states over the suspension of Syria
at a summit in the Saudi Arabian city of Mecca.  Iran’s Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  told reporters in
Jeddah that his country would oppose the exclusion of President
Bashar al-Assad’s government from the 57-member Organization of
Islamic Cooperation, which has been recommended by the group’s
foreign ministers.  “Suspending does not mean that the problem will be
solved,” he said. “With such a reaction, you just erase the
problem.”  The meeting is being attended by Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  together with leaders from other Muslim states who
are being asked to agree Syria’s suspension as a response to 17
months of civil conflict that has killed more than 21,000
people, according to estimates from the opposition Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights . Syria was suspended from the  Arab
League  in November.  “Some countries, like Iran, will have the right to object
to it, but most countries have adopted it,” Isam Shanti,
director of the OIC information department, said by phone from
Jeddah. The resolution will be debated by Islamic leaders later
today. Iran “wouldn‘t agree to the plan for the exclusion of
Syria,’’ Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  told
reporters today.  Syrian opposition fighters yesterday said they’d shot down
a government MiG-23 on a bombing run over eastern Syria. The
state-run Syrian Arab News Agency said the warplane crashed due
to a ‘‘technical problem’’ during a training mission.  Captured Pilot  Video on Al Jazeera television from the Free Syrian Army
showed what rebels said was the downing in flames of the MiG-23.
Gunfire can be heard and a flame is seen emerging from the
aircraft. A video link e-mailed by the Local Coordination
Committees, an activist group, and posted by the Sham News
Network on YouTube, showed the captured pilot, who identified
himself as Colonel Mufeed Mohamed Suleiman. The authenticity of
the footage could not be confirmed.  The pilot calls on officers of the regular army to ‘‘defect
from this gang’’ and says the bruises on his face are from the
crash.  ‘‘We’ve seen a very troubling and despicable uptick in
attacks from the air perpetrated by the Syrian regime,’’
Pentagon spokesman  George Little  told reporters in Washington.
He said the U.S. was unable to confirm the rebels’ claim of a
shootdown.  Plans to establish a no-fly zone over Syria are ‘‘not on
the front burner,’’ U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  told
 Associated Press  in an interview published today. While the U.S.
armed forces could do the job, it would require a ‘‘major, major
policy decision’’ to do so.  No-Fly Zone  The Obama administration is reviewing the possibility of a
no-fly zone to protect Syrian civilians from air attacks, White
House counterterrorism adviser  John Brennan  said on Aug. 8. The
president of the opposition Syrian National Council, Abdelbaset Sieda, called on Aug. 12 for the creation of a no-fly zone in
border areas.  A United Nations-arranged cease-fire, agreed to in April,
has failed to halt fighting. Syrian government forces killed 114
people yesterday, including 66 in Damascus and its suburbs, the
Local Coordination Committees said in an e-mailed statement.
Shelling continued in Damascus suburbs and Homs today, the group
said.  Germany’s Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  called for an
intensification of planning for a Syria without Assad in a phone
call late yesterday with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, U.K. Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  and Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu .  Violence Increasing  The Syrian president’s special envoy, Buthaina Shaaban,
will hold talks with Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  during
a visit to China from today, China’s Foreign Ministry spokesman
Qin Gang said in a statement posted on the ministry’s website
yesterday. China is also considering inviting Syrian opposition
groups to visit the country, Qin said.  ‘‘It is clear that violence is increasing in many parts of
Syria,” Lieutenant General Babacar Gaye, head of the UN’s
monitoring force, told journalists in Damascus yesterday. “The
indiscriminate use of heavy weapons by the government and
targeted attacks by the opposition in urban centers are
inflicting a heavy toll on innocent civilians.” The UN
monitoring mission expires at the end of the week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  