-- Industry Criticizes Obama Plan for Alaska Drilling
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-08-14T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-13/u-s-sets-plan-for-drilling-in-52-of-alaska-petroleum-reserve.html
A proposal by President  Barack Obama ’s administration to expand drilling to about half of
Alaska’s National Petroleum Reserve drew complaints from the oil
industry, which wants the entire area opened, while
environmentalists applauded the plan.  Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said wells will be allowed
on 11.8 million acres that hold about 549 million barrels of
oil, while coastal areas such as Peard Bay and Kasegaluk Lagoon,
where seals and polar bears live, will get “special
protection,” according to the statement from the Interior
Department yesterday.  “This falls short of where we need to be,” Erik Milito, a
director of the  American Petroleum Institute , a Washington-based
trade association, said in a phone interview.  The entire reserve, the area west of the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge roughly the size of Indiana, holds about 896
million barrels of oil, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .
Milito said all of the federally managed area should opened to
leasing.  Past lease sales have generated little interest because of
the remoteness of the area and lack of infrastructure. A Dec. 7
sale of oil leases brought $3.6 million in high bids from
companies including  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and Woodstone Resources LLC.
For comparison, the most recent auction in the  Gulf of Mexico ,
the U.S.’s largest domestic source of crude, raised about $1.7
billion.  Murkowski Opposition  Alaska Senator  Lisa Murkowski  said in a statement that the
Teshekpuk Lake area was already under a 10-year deferral for
additional study.  “This decision denies U.S. taxpayers both revenue and jobs
at a time when our nation faces record debt and chronic
 unemployment ,” Murkowski, a Republican, said.  The purpose of the reserve is to provide petroleum, she
said. “It is not a wildlife refuge,” she said.  Environmentalists, however, said the proposal struck the
right balance between wildlife preservation and  energy security .  “This proposal would make millions of acres available for
oil and gas leasing, while preserving irreplaceable habitat for
the western Arctic caribou herd in the Utukok Uplands and other
wildlife areas,” Ken Rait, the director of the Western Lands
Initiative at the Pew Environment Group, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The secretary’s proposed action is an important
step in the right direction for all Americans, including Alaska
Natives, sportsmen, and other conservationists who want to
balance energy exploration with wildlife protection.”  Public Review  The plan is the first effort by the U.S. to manage the
entire reserve, rather than offering parcels in various parts of
the reserve. The Interior Department didn’t provide an estimate
for how much of the reserve had been made available for drilling
in the past.  The proposal will be presented for public review later this
year, according to the Interior Department.  Salazar, in an e-mailed statement, said the proposal would
produce needed energy while “recognizing the need to protect
America’s treasures in the Arctic.”  Senator  Mark Begich , a Democrat from Alaska, said putting
the Kasegaluk Lagoon under special protection might complicate
connecting the  Chukchi Sea  oil fields with existing pipeline
infrastructure.  “What additional conditions are going to have to be met
and how feasible is it to get a pipeline in there?” Begich said
in an e-mailed statement.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  of The Hague is planning to start
exploring for oil in the Chukchi Sea this year. The area may
hold 15.4 billion barrels of oil, according to a 2011 assessment
from the Interior Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  